-- Allen Stanford Convicted in $7 Billion Investment Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-03-08T00:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/stanford-is-found-guilty-on-13-of-14-counts-in-7-billion-investment-fraud.html
R. Allen Stanford’s jury, a day
after finding the  Texas  financier guilty of leading a $7 billion
international fraud, heard evidence on federal prosecutors’
request that he forfeit $330 million in assets.  The jury of eight men and four women yesterday convicted
Stanford on 13 of 14 charges including four wire fraud counts
and five mail fraud counts carrying maximum penalties of 20
years in prison. No sentencing date has been set.  The forfeiture trial started yesterday about 2 1/2 hours
after jurors returned their guilty verdict. They deliberated for
about 15 minutes today after hearing closing arguments from both
sides and will resume their consideration of the evidence
tomorrow.  “Three hundred, thirty million dollars, that’s what’s at
stake here today, $330 million obtained through the sale of
certificates of deposits,” Justice Department lawyer Andrew
Warren told jurors as he summarized evidence they were shown in
the second proceeding.  That money, he said, remained the proceeds of Stanford’s
criminal acts regardless of what it was used to buy or where it
was deposited and under whose name it was deposited.  Stanford, the founder of Houston-based Stanford Financial
Group, denied federal government allegations that he lied to
investors about the nature and oversight of the certificates of
deposit issued by the bank and sold in U.S. by his securities
firm, Stanford Group Co.  ‘Belongs to the Victims’  Stanford funds now held in the U.K.,  Switzerland ,  Canada 
and Antigua belong to his bank depositors, Warren told the jury
yesterday at the outset of the proceeding.  “It includes the SocGen slush fund about which you’ve
heard a lot about already,” Warren said, referring to money
held at a Swiss unit of Paris-based  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)  “Every
single dollar the U.S. is seeking is CD depositors’ money that
stems from Mr. Stanford’s crimes and belongs to the victims of
his fraud.”  U.S. District Judge David Hittner had told the jury that
they must unanimously agree upon whether funds on deposit in
each of the 29 accounts at issue were proceeds of Stanford’s
wire fraud, mail fraud or conspiracy to commit those crimes, and
if so, how much of that money was stolen from investors.  Defense attorney Ali Fazel, in his closing comments, told
the jury prosecutors didn’t meet their burden.  ‘Don’t Assume It’  “They’re wanting you to make the leap again,” the defense
lawyer said, reprising a theme he sounded in his closing after
the criminal trial. “They want you to assume that all of it is
CD money. I’m asking you not to do that. Don’t assume it.”  “Fifty percent of a prosecutor’s job is to obtain the
conviction,” said Paul Pelletier, a former Stanford prosecutor
who is now with Boston-based  Mintz Levin Cohn Ferris Glovsky &
Popeo PC (1367L) . “The other 50 percent is to recover for the victims,
and forfeiture goes a long way towards that goal.”  The jury must find that specific Stanford assets were
obtained with criminal proceeds in order to force him to give
them up, Pelletier said. Funds recovered through this process
will be returned to Stanford fraud victims.  U.S. Postal Inspector Clayton Gerber today traced the flow
of money from Stanford investors to accounts in Switzerland and,
ultimately, to a bank in the  Cook Islands  near  New Zealand ,
where they were held in what Gerber identified as the Baby Mama
Trust.  Home Sales  The trust held proceeds from the 2009 sale of a Key
Biscayne,  Florida , home owned by Rebecca Reeves-Stanford, with
whom the financier had two out-of-wedlock children.  Gerber said that home was bought in 2005 with money from
the sale of a Boca Raton home that Stanford purchased for
Reeves-Stanford in 2002 for $1.1 million using CD holders’ money
transferred to a Swiss bank account.  On cross-examination by co-lead defense counsel Ali Fazel,
Gerber said he didn’t have opening balances for all of the bank
accounts about which he testified. While some of those accounts
were opened before 2000, his review only reached back to about
that year, he said.  “Aren’t you making assumptions as to what monies were
there to begin with?” Fazel asked.  “No,” the postal inspector said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Houston at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  