-- Steel Output in China May Slow as Domestic Demand Wanes, Association Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-06T06:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/steel-output-in-china-may-slow-as-domestic-demand-wanes-association-says.html
Steel production in  China , the
world’s biggest producer, may slow growth to 4 percent this year 
amid weaker demand, the China Iron and Steel Association said.  That would be less than half of the 8.9 percent growth
recorded in 2011, according to the National Bureau of
Statistics.  China yesterday pared the nation’s growth target to 7.5
percent this year from an 8 percent annual growth rate goal in
place since 2005, a signal that the government is determined to
cut reliance on exports and  capital spending  in favor of
consumption. Some steel mills have been cutting output since the
fourth quarter, Zhu said.  “Steel output volume is subject to the pace of
infrastructure spending,” Zhu Jimin, the association’s
chairman, said today in Beijing during the National People’s
Congress. He’s also the chairman of  Shougang Corp. (SHOZ) , a Beijing-
based steelmaker.  China’s steel output in the first two months was 620
million metric tons annualized, Shougang’s Zhu said today. The
nation produced 683.27 million tons last year.  High raw material costs and rising competition cut profit
margins for Chinese steelmakers to a record low of 0.43 percent
in November, the steel association had said.  “The  steel mills  should accelerate the pace of
consolidation to cut industry overcapacity,” he said.  China won’t relax its curbs on  property market  as the
government wants to see housing prices return to reasonable
levels in the near term, Zhang Ping, head of the National
Development and Reform Commission said yesterday during the
congress. The nation’s construction industry accounts for 53
percent of the country’s steel demand, according to Mirae Assets
Securities Co.  Slower global growth may curb demand for home appliances
and the steel used to make them,  Xu Lejiang , chairman of
Baosteel Group Corp., the nation’s third-largest mill, said
yesterday. Still, demand for steel used for automobiles this
year may outpace last year as the government encourages
consumption.  Shougang, China’s sixth-biggest mill by output, is building
a steel plant with a partner in  Malaysia , Zhu said.  The project will have an annual capacity of 1 million tons
in the first-phase expansion, Zhu said. It will use  iron ore 
from Malaysia and imports, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  