-- Raw Sugar Declines Most in Three Weeks on Surplus Concerns; Cocoa Steady
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-03-06T20:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/sugar-falls-for-second-day-as-surplus-may-become-available-coffee-slides.html
Sugar futures fell the most in three
weeks on mounting concern that supplies will outpace demand amid
faltering global economies. Cocoa was unchanged.  Sugar supplies will exceed demand by 7.7 million metric
tons in the 12 months ending Sept. 30, up 1.6 million tons from
a November forecast, according to London-based Czarnikow Group
Ltd., which traded the sweetener in more than 90 countries last
year. Equities and commodities fell after a report showed that
the European Union’s economy contracted in the fourth quarter.  “The surplus is the big story going into the summer,”
Jeff Dobrydney, a vice president at Wilton, Connecticut-based
Jenkins Sugar Group, said in a telephone interview.  Raw-sugar futures for May delivery slid 2.6 percent to
settle at 24.05 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York , marking the biggest drop for a most-active contract
since Feb. 9. Still, the price is up 3.2 percent this year.  The dollar rose to a two-week high against a basket of
major currencies, reducing the appeal of commodities as
alternative assets. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24
 raw materials  tumbled the most this year.  “The general atmosphere is one of ‘risk off’ in the
commodity world,”  Andy Ryan  a senior risk manager at INTL
FCStone in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in a report.  Cocoa futures for May delivery closed steady at $2,283 a
metric ton.  In London futures trading, refined sugar sank, while cocoa
was higher on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  