-- Assad May Lose Russia, China; McCain Calls for Airstrikes
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-03-06T09:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/syria-s-assad-may-lose-key-backers-as-mccain-calls-for-u-s-led-airstrikes.html
Syria’s two most powerful backers,
Russia and China, have started to edge away from their defense
of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, while U.S. Senator  John McCain  called for U.S.-led airstrikes to stop his “savagery.”  Russia and China decried the violence in Syria and
dispatched diplomats to the region this week, raising the
possibility of a diplomatic breakthrough that could end their
opposition to United Nations Security Council action critical of
the Assad regime.  Meanwhile, McCain said diplomacy has failed to stop Assad’s
military assault against civilians and urged the U.S. to create
civilian safe havens by leading airstrikes against Syrian forces
and air defenses.  “Despite a year’s worth of diplomacy backed by sanctions,
Assad and his top lieutenants show no signs of giving up and
taking the path into foreign exile,” the Arizona Republican
said in remarks to the Senate yesterday.  “In addition to the moral and humanitarian interests at
stake in  Syria , what is just as compelling, if not more so, are
the strategic and geopolitical interests,” said McCain, the top
Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee. “The  United
States  has a clear national security interest in stopping the
violence in Syria and forcing Assad to leave power.”  The Obama administration has opposed sending arms or
undertaking a more extensive military intervention, mindful of
the risks of fueling a civil war. Several Arab states, including
 Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, have said they favor providing arms to
support the Syrian opposition.  Syrian Clashes  In recent weeks, the Obama administration has signaled the
possibility of its own shift, opening to door to options beyond
diplomacy and economic sanctions.  Speaking of Assad on Feb. 27, State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  said “we don’t take anything off the table and
that, if he doesn’t heed the will of his own people and the
increasingly loud and strong voice of the international
community, we may have to consider additional measures.” The
administration hasn’t shown interest in direct military action,
such as the airpower deployed over  Libya  to protect civilians
and aid rebels fighting to topple the late dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .  McCain made his call for military intervention as Syrian
troops clashed with army defectors in the southern Daraa region
and tanks and military vehicles massed outside Yabroud, a
Damascus suburb, Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the U.K.-based
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said by telephone.  Russian Opposition  The conflict has claimed more than 7,500 lives, according
to the UN. The U.S. is drafting a new resolution after Russia
and  China  vetoed Security Council measures in October and
February. Russia opposes the U.S. proposal because it’s a
“slightly modified version” of the draft that was vetoed last
month, Deputy Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov said in a posting
on his Twitter Inc. account.  An explosion struck an oil pipeline, with opposition groups
and the government blaming each other for the blast. In the Baba
Amr neighborhood of Homs, where government forces seized control
after a monthlong bombardment and siege, troops are clearing out
“terrorist elements,” the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency
said.  Kofi Annan , the joint special envoy of the UN and the Arab
League, will go to Syria March 10, after stopping in Cairo to
meet with the league’s secretary-general, both organizations
said in an e-mailed statement from Geneva today.  “The purpose of his first visit is to seek an urgent end
to all violence and human-rights violations, and to initiate the
effort to promote a peaceful solution to the Syrian crisis,”
according to the statement.  ‘Against Popular Sentiment’  Russia and China are shifting on Syria because they haven’t
been “particularly happy with the position they’ve adopted in
the region,” said  Robert Danin , a senior fellow at the  Council
on Foreign Relations  in  Washington . Their UN vetoes scuttled a
resolution authored by the  Arab League  calling for Assad to hand
power to a deputy.  “They’re lined up against popular sentiment in the Arab
world,” Danin said. “That’s just not a great place to be. They
have a lot of reasons to reconsider their position.”  In a March 4 six-point statement about a political
resolution on the “Syria issue,” the Chinese Foreign Ministry
pointedly distanced itself from the Assad government, noting the
regime’s violence against civilians. China called itself a
“friend of the Arab people,” and urged an end to “all acts of
violence, particularly violence against innocent civilians.”  Rejects Regime Change  The ministry announced a two-day visit to Damascus,
starting today by China’s former ambassador to Syria to discuss
its statement.  China said it continues to reject “regime change” and
called on the international community to “earnestly respect the
independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of
Syria.” Amid the Arab League’s sanctions against the government
in Damascus, the statement also emphasizes China’s belief that
the use or threat of sanctions “does not help to resolve this
issue appropriately.”  China called for political dialogue and a leading UN role
in coordinating humanitarian aid. Both of those elements are
part of the agreement settled on at the first so-called Friends
of Syria meeting in Tunis Feb. 24, a gathering which neither
China nor  Russia  attended.  Russian Diplomacy  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  will conduct his own
diplomacy March 10, traveling to Cairo to meet with the Arab
League, which authored the resolution calling for Assad to step
down. Yesterday, Lavrov urged Assad to end the bloodshed.  Nuland said yesterday the U.S. hoped that, with Russia’s
elections now over, it might be more supportive of the stance
the U.S. and its allies have taken.  “There was some sense that senior leadership in Russia
might have been preoccupied in the week or two before the
election and not have had the same kind of attention to pay to
Syria that we have had, and that now they might,” Nuland told
reporters.  McCain, in his speech on the Senate floor, emphasized that
time is short. “Homs is lost for now, but Idlib and Hama and
Qusayr and Daraa and other cities in Syria could still be
saved,” he said. “But time is running out. Assad’s forces are
on the march.”  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization took action to
“save Kosovo in 1999 without formal UN authorization,” McCain
said. Together or in some combination, the Arab League, NATO, or
a leading coalition within the Friends of Syria group, should be
able to provide a similar mandate for military measures against
Syria today, he said. At this stage, military assistance to the
Free Syrian Army, an opposition group, “alone will not be
sufficient to stop the slaughter and save innocent lives. The
only realistic way to do so is with foreign airpower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  