-- U.K. House Prices Decline as Recovery Concerns Weigh on Consumers: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-06T11:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/u-k-february-house-prices-fall-0-5-on-month-halifax-says.html
U.K.  house prices  fell for a third
month in four in February and retail sales declined as economic
uncertainty weighed on Britons’ spending.  Home prices  dropped 0.5 percent from January to an average
160,118 pounds ($252,600),  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Halifax
mortgage-lending unit said in a statement in London today. A
separate report from the  British Retail Consortium  showed  sales
at stores  open at least 12 months decreased 0.3 percent last
month from a year earlier.  While inflation is cooling, a recovery in  consumer
confidence  is being kept in check by government job cuts and
concern about the impact of Europe’s debt crisis on Britain’s
economy. Housing demand may come under further pressure after a
property- tax exemption  ends this month and Halifax, the U.K.’s
No. 1 mortgage provider, and two other lenders move to raise
interest rates for some of their home-loan products.  “It is hard to be optimistic about the house-price
outlook,” said  Ed Stansfield , a property economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London. “With mortgage interest rates edging
up again and unemployment still rising, the downward trend in
prices is likely to become entrenched this year.”  Stocks Decline  The Halifax report also showed that in the three months
through February, values were 1.1 percent lower compared with
the previous quarter. From a year earlier, prices in the three-
month period were down 1.9 percent.  The pound fell 0.6 percent against the dollar today and was
trading at $1.5776 as of 10:43 a.m. in London.  London’s FTSE 100 Index fell 1 percent and  global stocks 
dropped for a third day, the longest stretch in two months, as
concern mounted the global economy is slowing. The euro-region
economy shrank 0.3 percent in the  fourth quarter , the European
Union’s statistics office said today, confirming an estimate
published on Feb. 15. That follows data yesterday that showed
U.S. factory orders declined and  China ’s announcement of the
lowest growth target since 2004.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  lost 0.8 percent, while
the  Stoxx 600 Europe Index (SXXP)  declined 1.2 percent, extending
yesterday’s 0.6 percent fall. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures slipped 0.8 percent, indicating the benchmark gauge for
U.S. stocks will slide for a third day.  Stocks are also under pressure as investors weigh  Greece ’s
chances of avoiding a default by getting private creditors to
accept a debt swap by a March 8 deadline. Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos said yesterday Greece expects bondholders to
accept the offer and is ready to force them to participate if
necessary.  The private investors that so far declared their
participation in the debt restructuring hold about 20 percent of
the bonds involved, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from
company reports.  U.K. Growth  Surveys this month indicate that the  U.K. economy  returned
to growth in the first quarter after a 0.2 percent contraction
in the last three months of 2011. Reports from  Markit Economics 
showed manufacturing and services continued to expand in
February, while construction output rose at the fastest pace in
11 months.  Consumer confidence  held at the highest since June
last month, GfK NOP Ltd. said on Feb. 29.  Recent economic statistics have been “encouraging,
suggesting that the U.K. may avoid slipping back into
recession,” Halifax economist  Martin Ellis  said. “These
developments are positive for the housing market outlook.
Significant uncertainties, however, persist and the prospects
for house prices during 2012 will, to a large extent, depend on
events in the euro zone.”  Mortgage Costs  Halifax said on March 4 it is increasing its standard
variable mortgage rate by 0.49 percentage point to 3.99 percent
due to higher funding costs.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
has raised the rate on two of its non-standard variable-rate
mortgage products, while  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  has also increased
the rate new customers will pay on four types of mortgages it
offers through its “Abbey For Intermediaries” product line.  Other surveys reported that U.K. house prices rose last
month, with  Nationwide Building Society (UKNBAAMM)  saying that values were
up 0.6 percent on the month. Bank of England data showed that
mortgage approvals rose to a two-year high in January.  Those figures partly reflect people looking to take
advantage of a  tax exemption  for first-time buyers purchasing a
home for less than 250,000 pounds before it ends this month.  Today’s BRC report showed the value of retail sales
including stores open less than 12 months rose 2.3 percent in
February from a year earlier. In the three months through
February, food sales increased 1.9 percent on the year, while
non-food sales fell 0.3 percent.  RBA Policy  Elsewhere today,  Australia ’s central bank reiterated it has
scope to cut interest rates as  Europe  remains a potential source
of shocks “for some time yet.” The nation’s currency fell as
much as 0.9 percent to its lowest level in more than a month
against the  U.S. dollar .  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board left the overnight
cash-rate target at 4.25 percent, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
said in a statement in Sydney, using a phrase he employed last
month by calling policy “appropriate for the moment.”  Bank of England policy makers will keep their benchmark
 interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent this week and maintain
their  bond-purchase program  after they expanded it last month to
aid the recovery, surveys of economists show. The central bank
will announce the decision at noon on March 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  