-- U.S. Consumer Bureau Near Data Deal With Attorneys General
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-03-06T19:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/u-s-consumer-bureau-s-cordray-near-pact-with-attorneys-general.html
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Director  Richard Cordray  said his agency is close to a deal to
share data among state and federal authorities to probe abuses
by banks and other financial services companies.  The accord will “establish a general framework to share
data on consumer financial protection issues,” Cordray said in
a speech to the  National Association of State Attorneys General 
today in Washington.  The consumer bureau and states have formed staff working
groups on areas of mutual interest, the former Ohio attorney
general said. Close work with state law enforcement officials
has been a signature bureau initiative since former Obama
administration adviser  Elizabeth Warren  began setting it up in
late 2010.  “We are meeting regularly to discuss the challenges posed
to our mutual constituents by payday loans, foreclosure scams,
auto loans, and debt collection,” Cordray said. “These
substantive groups allow us to keep each other updated and to
launch joint initiatives in areas where we share jurisdiction.”  State attorneys general have clashed with major banks, such
as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. , over
adherence to state consumer-protection laws.  The information-sharing deal focuses on using the Federal
Trade Commission’s Consumer Sentinel network as a clearinghouse
for complaints on financial services, said Roy Cooper, the
attorney general of  North Carolina .  ’Critical’ Complaint Data  “Strong complaint data will be critical for us in
detecting trends in scams and unfair lending,” Cooper said in
an interview. “We hope that exchange goes both ways.”  Elizabeth Lordan, a spokeswoman for the FTC, said in an e-
mail that “virtually all” state attorneys general can
currently use the database, though not all states contribute
information to it. In August the consumer bureau announced it
had struck a deal to make complaints it collects accessible via
this system.  Two  attorneys general  said their offices were not seeking
confidential information gleaned from the consumer bureau’s
supervision of financial services companies. In supervision,
bureau officials examine the books and records of individual
firms.  “We don’t see the states trying to elbow in on the
supervisory authority so much as we see ourselves working on
consumer protection,” Cooper, a Democrat, said.  Excluding Supervisory Information  Greg Zoeller, the attorney general of  Indiana , echoed that
point of view. “It’s not necessary for our office to have
access to supervisory information,” Zoeller, a Republican, said
in an interview.  Bank lobbyists have fretted that the consumer bureau might
share supervisory information with state attorneys general.  Cooper also said that the plans for information-sharing
with bureau render “moot” any worries about the status of data
protected by attorney-client privileges, at least as regards the
states.  Cordray has dismissed worries expressed by bank lobbyists
that the bureau wouldn’t protect such information. He has also
said he wouldn’t oppose legislation to explicitly preserve the
privilege for information given to the bureau.  Cordray also called on state attorneys general to
collaborate on a “national strategic plan” to address abuses
in the debt collection business. Regulation and enforcement of
debt collectors is shared between the states and the federal
government. The consumer bureau and the Federal Trade Commission
both work in this area at the federal level.  The consumer bureau announced plans on Feb. 16 to start
federal supervision of some debt collectors.  To contact the reporter on this story: Carter Dougherty in
 Washington  at   cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds43@bloomberg.net . 