-- U.S. Ruling on Argentine Bonds Raises Risk of Second Default, Citi Says
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-03-06T20:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/u-s-ruling-on-argentine-bonds-raises-risk-of-second-default-citi-says.html
A U.S. court ruling that  Argentina 
must pay interest on its defaulted debt by the time it makes
payments on restructured bonds is raising the risk of another
default, Citigroup Inc. said.  The Feb. 23 ruling by U.S. District Judge Thomas P. Griesa
could put bond payments at risk, Citigroup said in an e-mailed
report today. The decision, which has been suspended pending
appeal, may not be enforceable, the report said.  “The recent ruling against Argentina by Judge Griesa poses
a potential significant, although low probability, risk,”
Jeffrey Williams, a Citigroup emerging market debt strategist,
wrote in the report. “If the decision is not overturned by an
appeals court, we believe payments on the current Argentina
bonds could be at risk.”  Yields on Argentine dollar bonds due in 2017 rose 28 basis
points to 9.08 percent at 4:51 p.m. Buenos Aires time, while the
extra yield investors demand to own Argentine debt over  U.S.
Treasuries  widened 11 basis points to 831, the highest among
major emerging market economies after  Venezuela .  ‘External Financing’  “It clearly weighs on sentiment and creditworthiness,”
 Siobhan Morden , head of Latin America strategy at Jefferies &
Co. Inc., said in a telephone interview from  New York .  Still, it is unclear how enforceable the court’s decision
is, Morden said.  The ruling is based on a clause in the bonds’ contracts
that states that all bondholders should be treated equally,
forcing Argentina to pay the full amount that is owed to NML
when it makes a payment on its other bonds. If the decision is
upheld, “nearly the entire payment” for Argentina’s dollar
bonds would be redirected to NML until the fund is fully paid,
Williams wrote.  “This ruling from Griesa has little legal basis,” Economy
Minister Hernan Lorenzino told reporters in  Buenos Aires 
yesterday. “Argentina’s payments on performing bonds will not
be altered. There are no changes in Argentina’s payment
obligations.”  Press officials at the economy ministry referred to
Lorenzino’s comments when contacted by Bloomberg today.  Argentina is “permanently prohibited” from taking any
action to evade the court’s ruling or render it ineffective by
altering or amending how it makes payments on its bonds, Griesa
said. NML owns a beneficial interest representing $132 million
principal amount on certain floating-rate accrual notes issued
by Argentina, according to court documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  