-- Mortgage Forgiveness Will Help U.S. Homeowners, Stevens Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   M a r k   C r u m p t o n
-- 2012-03-06T22:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/u-s-government-needs-to-back-mortgage-forgiveness-stevens-says.html
The U.S. government needs to do more
to help homeowners stay in their properties, including exploring
options for principal forgiveness with mortgages held by  Fannie
Mae  and Freddie Mac, according to David H. Stevens, chief
executive officer of the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  Principal reductions and programs that lower interest and
payment rates, would place “ cash flow  into the hands of
families,” Stevens, a former Federal Housing Administration
commissioner, said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bottom Line” with Mark Crumpton.  President Barack Obama today unveiled his latest plan to
help the  housing market  by lowering mortgage insurance premiums
for borrowers who refinance loans. While Obama and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  have called for principal
reductions by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two government-
supported mortgage companies, their overseer says it would
result in untenable losses for the lenders.  Forgiving mortgage debt on Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  loans
would cost the taxpayer-funded companies almost $100 billion,
Edward DeMarco, the acting director of the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency  said in a Jan. 20 letter to Representative  Elijah Cummings , a Maryland Democrat who had threatened to subpoena the
information.  Streamlining Refinancing  The FHA said today it will streamline its refinance program
to save a typical borrower about $1,000 a year, according to a
fact sheet distributed by the Obama administration. It will
reduce up-front premiums to 0.01 percent of the total loan
amount from 1 percent. Annual fees will be cut to 0.55 percent
from 1.15 percent for borrowers with FHA loans made before June
1, 2009. As many as 3 million borrowers may benefit from the
changes, the FHA said.  “I’m not one of those people who thinks we should just sit
by and wait for the housing market to hit bottom,” Obama said
today at a news conference at the White House. “There are real
things we can do right now,” he said, noting that the changes
don’t require congressional approval.  Under Obama’s new plan, relief will also be provided to
veterans under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act and would
provide families a minimum of $116,000 if they were wrongfully
foreclosed upon.  “This is the right step to take for servicers who didn’t
comply appropriately,” Stevens said. “There is nothing more
important than Americans who put their lives at risk for our
country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 Charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  