-- U.S. Ethnic Mix Boasts German Accent Amid Surge of Hispanics
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-03-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/u-s-ethnic-mix-boasts-german-accent-amid-surge-of-hispanics.html
The U.S., first populated by Native
Americans, rediscovered by Europeans and colonized under the
flags of the Spanish, English and French, is now filled with
Germans.  More than half of the nation’s 3,143 counties contain a
plurality of people who describe themselves as German-American,
according to a Bloomberg compilation of data from the Census
Bureau’s 2010  American Community Survey . The number of German-
Americans rose by 6 million during the last decade to 49.8
million, almost as much as the nation’s 50.5 million Hispanics.
(Click  here  to explore an interactive county-by-county map of
U.S. ethnic groups.)  “A lot of people aren’t aware that German is the largest
ancestral group in the country,” said  Don Heinrich Tolzmann , a
Cincinnati author who wrote “The German-American Experience.”
“It’s an eye-opener, and it’s something that’s commonly
overlooked.”  While Hispanics and Asians make up the fastest-growing
segments of the  U.S. population , the increase in those
identifying themselves as German-American underscores the
nation’s European immigrant roots. It also reflects the use of
new ancestry-tracking tools, a longing for identity and a surge
in ethnic pride after the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, more than
four decades after Nazi  Germany ’s defeat.  ‘Texas German’  Many families in the Hill Country around Austin still speak
a hybrid of English and German known as “ Texas German ,” said
Jean Warneke, executive director of the German-Texan Heritage
Society. Though the dialect is more common among older Texans,
Warneke said classes offered by the society have become popular
among teenagers as more Austin public schools have dropped
German instruction.  “Our classes are always full,” she said.  Germans have been immigrating in significant numbers to the
U.S. since the 1680s, when they settled in New York and
 Pennsylvania . The bulk of German immigrants arrived in the mid-
19th century; they’ve been the nation’s predominant ethnic group
since at least the 1980 census.  The increased identification with German culture contrasts
with earlier eras in U.S. history -- during both world wars --
when many kept those ties quiet. The passage of time has
replaced that impulse with a search for enduring traditions,
said  J. Gregory Redding , a professor of modern languages and
literature at Wabash College in Crawfordsville, Indiana.  Cultivating Identity  “The more homogenized our society becomes, the more we see
some people seeking to differentiate themselves by forming
distinct personal identities,” Redding wrote in an e-mail.
“For those who can find Germanic family traditions somewhere in
their past, it can be personally fulfilling to cultivate that
aspect of one’s life.”  The 49.8 million German-Americans are more than triple the
14.7 million Asians counted in the 2010 census. Bloomberg’s
county-by-county analysis broke down the Hispanic and Asian
populations into subgroups by national origin, with Mexican-
Americans and Chinese-Americans making up the largest share of
their respective groups.  Americans of German descent top the list of U.S. ethnic
groups, followed by Irish, 35.8 million; Mexican, 31.8 million;
English, 27.4 million; and Italian, 17.6 million, the census
shows.  An ancestral map of the U.S. confirms regional stereotypes,
with Italian-Americans clustering from central Connecticut to
southern  New Jersey . In New York City, Staten Island is the only
borough with a plurality claiming Italian ancestry, the census
shows. The city’s other predominant groups include Puerto Ricans
in  Brooklyn  and the Bronx, Chinese in Queens and Dominicans in
 Manhattan .  Irish Appalachia  Irish-Americans still hold sway in  Boston , with heavy
concentrations in southern New England and Appalachia. People
claiming English ancestry make up a plurality in much of
 Virginia  and the Carolinas, as well as  Utah .  Finnish-Americans are the largest ancestral group in the
Upper Peninsula of  Michigan , and people of Norwegian extraction
are the biggest along the northern edges of  Minnesota  and  North
Dakota . Clusters of French-Americans extend along the northern
New England border with  Canada  and the Louisiana Gulf Coast.  Only nine counties were predominantly African-American, all
in the South, even though the 2010 census reported there are now
37.7 million blacks. The Census Bureau doesn’t break out
ancestry by African tribe or nation for descendants of blacks
who came to the U.S. as slaves.  German Belt  The German belt of the U.S. extends from eastern
Pennsylvania to the Oregon coast. A majority of counties in
Pennsylvania, Michigan,  Illinois , Missouri,  Iowa , Wisconsin,
Minnesota, Kansas, Nebraska, Wyoming, Montana and the Dakotas
are predominantly German, and they make up a plurality of Ohio
and  Indiana  counties.  Census figures show German-Americans are slightly older and
better-educated than the general population, with one-third
having a bachelor’s degree or higher. More than 85 percent live
in the same place as they did in 2009, and 40 percent are
employed in management, business, science or the arts.  Pennsylvania has the largest population of German-Americans
and is home to one of the group’s original settlements,
Germantown in 1683. The state has 3.5 million people claiming
German ancestry -- more than in Berlin.  Allegheny County , which
includes Pittsburgh, has 348,979 German-Americans, according to
the census.  Comanche Detente  While most Germans settled across prime Midwestern
farmland, small pockets of immigrants gathered in less-
hospitable locations.  German settlers  made peace with the
Comanche tribe in the mid-1840s to settle large parts of the
 Texas  Hill Country, a granite, cedar and cactus-studded region
of central Texas stretching from Austin to Kerrville.  At least three-dozen Texas communities celebrated
Oktoberfest last year, said Warneke, of the  German-Texan
Heritage Society  in Austin. A spring Germanfest in Muenster, a
town of 1,544, drew almost 30,000 visitors, she said.  The cultural influence also is evident in the teen dialect
that echoes through the hallways of some schools in the region -
- as in the Texas German variant on a standard adolescent shot
of dismissiveness: “Vas-ever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in  New York  at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in Chicago at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  