-- U.S. Companies Need Flexible Laws to Boost Cybersecurity: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-06T00:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/u-s-companies-need-flexible-cybersecurity-laws-to-combat-hackers-view.html
You probably feel it intuitively.
The grids underlying our digital lives -- our bank accounts,
mobile phones, e-mail, medical records -- are more vulnerable
than ever.  Companies such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 Sony Corp. (6758)  have recently reported serious breaches of their
networks.  NASA  said last week that hackers had launched 13 major
attacks against it last year, including one in which they gained
access to networks at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, which
manages active space missions. The national counterintelligence
executive, a federal post,  estimates that  $398 billion in U.S.
research and development spending is jeopardized by
cyberespionage from China and  Russia .  As scary as all this sounds, cybersecurity is a manageable
problem. The most important thing for Congress is to act quickly
-- but not overreact.  The  Cybersecurity Act of 2012 , a bipartisan bill backed by
Senator  Joseph Lieberman  of  Connecticut  and introduced Feb. 14,
is a noble but imperfect start. It would require operators of
critical networks -- such as those used by utilities, banks and
telecommunications services -- to meet federal security
standards overseen by the Department of Homeland Security.
Companies could devise their own ways to meet the new standards,
but would be subject to performance evaluations.  The bill would also require information sharing about
attacks and emerging threats -- both among covered companies and
between the private sector and federal agencies -- in so-called
cybersecurity exchanges.  A Few Problems  So far so good. Unfortunately, the bill defines as
“critical” systems that, if disrupted by a cyberattack, “would
cause mass death, evacuation, or major damage to the economy,
national security or daily life.” Congress is right to try to
avoid placing overbearing regulation on too many industries. But
as James A. Lewis of the Center for Strategic and International
Studies has  argued , this definition is too narrow: Cyberattacks
aren’t going to cause mass death anytime soon.  A competing bill , introduced March 1 and backed by Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona  and other Republicans, would encourage
companies to voluntarily share information with the government
and with one another. Republicans argue that no one has a
greater incentive to prevent cyberattacks than companies
themselves.  Again, sounds great. Except that making your business more
secure costs money. A study by Bloomberg Government of 172
organizations in six industries and the government found that
they would need to increase their cybersecurity spending almost
nine times over -- to $46.6 billion from the current $5.3
billion -- to achieve security that could repel 95 percent of
attacks.  Not all of that would be new spending, and companies that
are already working hard at cybersecurity would have a much
smaller hill to climb. But executives may be tempted to cut
corners on such protections unless they have incentives: Loading
up on security spending could put you at a competitive
disadvantage -- and why would anyone really want to attack your
little company anyway?  Such calculations are perhaps why 71 percent of
cybersecurity professionals would like to see the federal
government take a more active role against cyberattacks,
according to a  2010 study  by the  Enterprise Strategy Group , an
IT consulting firm. True, these are precisely the people who
would benefit from increased attention (and spending) on
cybersecurity. Nevertheless, their point holds: If the
government creates uniform security standards, a given company
won’t be at a disadvantage for taking proper precautions.  Harnessing Competition  This is where the  Lieberman bill  is smart. By letting
businesses develop their own means of meeting the federal
standards -- through new software, for instance -- the bill
could harness competition to create efficiency in meeting the
threats from cyberspace.  To fix the bill’s flaws, the Senate should broaden the
definition of critical infrastructure modestly -- for instance,
by requiring some commercial information-technology companies to
adhere to federal standards on installation and maintenance
procedures. It should ensure that the requirements for companies
are as flexible as possible, to allow for unanticipated new
threats and to enable the quick correction of flawed measures or
unforeseen consequences. It needs to strengthen privacy
safeguards in its information-sharing provisions convincingly.  And, finally, it should allow the National Security Agency,
which spies on communications abroad, to share threat
information with companies in critical industries and to advise
on security measures, while giving the Department of  Homeland
Security  ultimate authority to ensure companies are meeting the
new standards.  Critics of this approach argue that the government will
always be a step behind hacking technology. Regardless of
whether this is true -- and no one really knows -- it isn’t a
good excuse for inaction. Cybersecurity is clearly an area where
federal intervention is warranted to protect the public. The
trick will be securing our digital lives without jeopardizing
the freedom and flexibility that make them worthwhile.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 