-- U.S. Urges Morgan Stanley Deal Approval Without Admission
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-03-06T20:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/u-s-urges-judge-to-accept-morgan-stanley-antitrust-accord-over-keyspan.html
The U.S. Justice Department urged a
judge to accept a $4.8 million antitrust lawsuit settlement with
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  even without an admission that the  New York  bank
violated federal law.  Morgan Stanley agreed in September to pay $4.8 million to
settle a U.S. antitrust case over a 2006 derivative contract
with  Brooklyn , New York-based KeySpan, a deal which the Justice
Department said probably led to higher electricity prices in  New
York City .  Antitrust lawyers from the Justice Department today filed
court papers in  Manhattan  urging U.S. District Judge William Pauley to accept the settlement. The U.S. says Pauley should
accept the deal even though Morgan Stanley didn’t admit
wrongdoing. A not-for-profit group and a regulatory board urged
the judge to reject the deal for that reason.  “The government routinely enters into antitrust consent
decrees explicitly disclaiming admissions or findings of
liability,”  Justice Department  lawyers wrote.  “To insist on more is to impose substantial resource costs
on government antitrust enforcement; to risk the possibility of
litigation resulting in no relief at all; to contravene a
century of congressional and judicial policy; and to establish a
precedent that could impede enforcement of the antitrust laws in
the future,” the Justice Department wrote.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment on the submissions.  AARP Objects  Under federal law, a judge must weigh the public interest
before approving an antitrust settlement in a case brought by
the U.S. Justice Department. Opposing the settlement are the
Public Service Commission of the State of New York, a regulatory
board, and AARP, a not-for-profit that advocates for people 50
and older.  In their public submissions challenging the accord, AARP
and the Public Service Commission cited a ruling by U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan in an unrelated lawsuit
against  Citigroup Inc. (C)  by the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Rakoff refused to accept a settlement in that case
without some acknowledgment of wrongdoing.  AARP argued in comments submitted on Dec. 8 and attached to
the U.S. court papers that the settlement should be rejected
because it provides no benefit to customers, because there’s no
proof the settlement will serve as a deterrent, and because
there’s no finding of wrongdoing by Morgan Stanley.  Morgan Stanley should not be let “off the hook,” AARP
said.  ‘Cost of Doing Business’  With no finding that antitrust law “is violated by the use
of financial derivatives to backstop risks when sellers game
electricity markets, no one, including Morgan Stanley, really
knows whether this gambit is actually illegal,” the group says.  The Public Service Commission says Morgan Stanley should be
required to pay more than $21 million to settle the case. As
part of its submission, it cites Rakoff’s ruling in the
Citigroup case and complains that the settlement may now be
viewed as merely a “cost of doing business” for Morgan
Stanley.  The proposed settlement in the KeySpan case was filed in
September in federal court in Manhattan. KeySpan in 2010 agreed
to pay $12 million to settle.  According to court papers filed last year, Morgan Stanley
entered into agreements with KeySpan and Astoria Generating Co.,
KeySpan’s largest competitor in the capacity market, that gave
KeySpan a financial interest in Astoria and ensured the company
would withhold output from the market and increase prices.  KeySpan is a unit of London-based  National Grid Plc (NG/) , owner
of natural-gas and power networks in Britain and the U.S.  The case is U.S. v. Morgan Stanley, 11-6875, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  