-- Hungary’s ‘Determined’ EU Talks to Lead to Court, Lazar Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-03-06T08:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/hungary-s-determined-eu-talks-to-lead-to-court-lazar-says-1-.html
Hungary  will take a “determined”
stand in its disputes with the European Union and some matters
will end up in court, said Janos Lazar, head of the ruling
Fidesz party’s parliamentary group.  The European Commission will decide tomorrow on the next
steps in so-called infringement procedures concerning the
independence of Hungary’s central bank, judiciary and data
protection agency. Asked on M1 television about the cases, Lazar
said he expected “various outcomes, some of which will go to
court and on some we will be able to agree.” He declined to
discuss the laws separately.  “Brussels got used to negotiating with the weak leaders of
a weakling country” during the previous government, Lazar said
in an interview with the Budapest-based channel today. “At last
there is a determined Hungarian representation in Brussels. The
government is quite right to act in a determined way.”  The disputes with the EU have prevented Hungary from
starting talks on a bailout from the bloc and the  International
Monetary Fund , which the government requested in November. While
Hungary had replied to written questions from the commission on
the infringement cases, its answers were “vague,”  Viviane
Reding , the EU’s justice policy chief, told reporters yesterday
in Brussels.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, also
separately proposed last month to suspend 495 million euros
($653 million) in development subsidies to press Hungary to
narrow its  budget deficit . EU finance ministers will this month
approve the proposal in “all certainty”  Peter Szijjarto ,
Premier Viktor Orban’s spokesman, said in an interview on TV2
television yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  