-- Turkey Urges Syria Aid Corridors as Russia Resists UN Bid to Condemn Assad
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-06T16:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/turkey-urges-syria-aid-corridors-as-russia-resists-un-bid-to-condemn-assad.html
Turkey called for an “immediate
opening” of humanitarian aid corridors in  Syria  as  Russia 
rebuffed efforts to revive a United Nations Security Council
condemnation of President Bashar al-Assad.  Syrian security forces killed 21 people across the country
today, including 13 from two families in the Baba Amr area of
the central city of Homs, the Local Coordination Committees of
Syria said on its website. The conflict has claimed more than
7,500 lives, according to UN estimates.  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said the Syrian
government must “really be pressured” to end the violent
repression of protests. Syria’s army is “butchering its own
people, pointing its guns at the masses,” Erdogan told members
of his governing Justice and Development Party in the Ankara
parliament today.  In Washington, Marine Corps General James Mattis, head of
the U.S. Central Command, said Assad, drawing support from
neighboring  Iran , will remain in power “for some time.” The
conflict “will get worse before it gets better,” Mattis said
in testimony to the Senate Armed Services Committee.  The U.S. is drafting a new Security Council resolution
after Russia and  China  blocked measures in October and February
supporting an Arab League-drafted transition plan. Russia
opposes the latest U.S. proposal because it’s a “slightly
modified version” of the draft vetoed last month, Deputy
Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov said in a posting on his
Twitter account.  Russia Unswayed  Russia won’t revise its position after its March 4
presidential election, the Foreign Ministry said in a statement
on its website today. Outside efforts to impose a solution that
back one side in the conflict are “unacceptable,” according to
the ministry statement.  “Reaching a lasting Syrian solution is possible only on
the basis of wide-ranging, national dialogue,” the ministry
said.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  told a panel of lawmakers
today that he has spoken to  Vladimir Putin  since his
presidential election victory and detected no sign of a shift on
Syria.  A Chinese envoy, Li Huaqing, a former ambassador to Syria,
arrived in Damascus today, Xinhua reported. On March 4, China
issued a six-point statement in Syria calling itself a “friend
of the Arab people” and urging an end to “all acts of
violence, particularly violence against innocent civilians.”  Safe Havens  Diplomacy has failed to stop Assad’s military assault
against civilians, U.S. Senator  John McCain , the top Republican
on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said yesterday.  “The  United States  has a clear national security interest
in stopping the violence in Syria and forcing Assad to leave
power,” McCain said, urging the creation of civilian safe
havens by using airstrikes against Syrian forces and air
defenses.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  declined to back McCain’s
call for military intervention. “Until there’s a clear
direction as to what’s happening there, involving ourselves at
this point in time would be premature,” Boehner, a Republican
from  Ohio , told reporters today after a closed conference of
 House Republicans .  Mattis said creating safe havens would require “a
significant commitment” of military resources. Syria’s Russian-
provided integrated air defense system of radar and missiles
would make imposition of a no-fly zone “challenging” he said.  ‘Experts in Repression’  Iran’s assistance to Assad’s regime includes monitoring and
eavesdropping equipment and “experts in oppression,” Mattis
said.  Mattis said in his prepared statement that Assad’s regime
“is battling for its survival against a popular uprising,
raising the prospect of civil war. The bravery of the Syrian
people is laudable but the options to address the situation are
extremely challenging.”  Mattis said “Syria is unraveling in disarray” and events
there “will have strategic repercussions throughout the
region.”  Syria has a “substantial chemical and biological weapons”
capability, “a significant integrated air defense system, and
thousands of shoulder-fired anti-air missiles,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  