-- Virdia Gets Funding to Turn Wood Into Sugars for Biofuel Makers
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-03-06T11:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/virdia-gets-funding-to-turn-wood-into-sugars-for-biofuel-makers.html
Virdia Inc. , a closely held
biotechnology company, is planning its first commercial plant in
Mississippi to convert wood into sugars that can used to produce
transportation fuel, nutritional products and specialty
chemicals.  The state agreed to provide a $75 million loan and $155
million in tax incentives,  Redwood City , California-based Virdia
said today in a statement. The company hasn’t decided on the
location for the plant, which is expected to go into production
in 2014. The total cost will exceed the state backing.  Cellulosic biomass may replace food crops such as corn and
sugar cane as a sugar source for biofuels, chemicals or
nutritional additives for  animal feed , said Philippe Lavielle,
who was named Virdia’s chief executive officer today. Virdia,
which is changing its name from  HCL CleanTech Inc. , will sell
its cellulosic sugars to industrial fermentation companies.  Supplying biofuel companies and chemical makers “will be a
natural fit for us,” Lavielle said in a telephone interview.
“The big volume markets are going to be in fuels.”  Oil companies  in the U.S. are mandated to  blend  36 billion
gallons (136 billion liters) of biofuel with their fuel products
by 2022, including 16 billion gallons made from cellulosic
feedstocks. Global biofuel requirements call for at least 72
billion gallons by 2021, according to the closely held company’s
statement.  Converting Ethanol Plants  No commercial volumes  of cellulosic biofuels are produced
currently in the U.S., according to the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency. Refiners may use Virdia’s products to make
cellulosic fuel at existing corn-based ethanol plants, Lavielle
said.  “This is another good example of where our products would
find their markets, converting first-generation ethanol plants
into second-generation plants just by using our sugars,”
Lavielle said.  The  Mississippi  plant will use concentrated acids to
process 350,000 tons of wood a year, less than a typical pulp
and paper mill, into 150,000 tons of sugar, Lavielle said. Later
plants may produce as much as 500,000 tons of sugar a year, he
said.  Virdia is initially focusing on wood, and may later
consider source crops such miscanthus and switchgrass, Lavielle
said. “If you process wood then you can process all these
grasses with no problem, but these aren’t available today,” he
said.  Lavielle replaces co-founder Eran Baniel, who is now vice
president of business development. Lavielle was previously vice
president of business development at Genencor International
Inc., a unit of Danisco A/S.  Virdia also said it received $20 million in  venture capital 
from  Khosla Ventures , Burrill & Co. and Tamar Ventures to fund
engineering work for the plant, and $10 million in debt from
TriplePoint Capital LLC. That follows $15 million in seed
funding received previously, Lavielle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  