-- Wal-Mart Asks Judge to Reject Texas Class-Action Bias Suit
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-03-07T03:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/wal-mart-asks-judge-to-dismiss-texas-discrimination-suit.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  asked a federal
judge in  Dallas  to reject a proposed class-action lawsuit in
which women allege that the world’s largest retailer
discriminated against Texas female workers over pay and
promotions.  The company said the claims are barred by the statute of
limitations. “The time for asserting class allegations on these
claims has passed,” it said yesterday in court papers.  The case also can’t be pursued as a class-action matter
because there is little in common among the claims made by the
plaintiffs, it said.  “The complaint does not allege any facts that would
establish a class-wide policy of discrimination,” Wal-Mart
said.  Some of the women who sued allege denial of promotion
opportunities but not pay differences, the company said. Others
allege pay discrimination but not promotion differences, it
said.  “Some advanced quickly within Wal-Mart while others
apparently never pursued managerial advancement,” it said.  The suit was filed in October on behalf of women working in
 Texas  Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club stores from Dec. 26, 1998, until
at least June 2004.  It came in response to a U.S.  Supreme Court  ruling in June
that barred treatment of gender-bias claims against Wal-Mart as
a national class action.  Plaintiffs’ Lawyer  “They claim that this is exactly the same case as the one
the Supreme Court looked at, and that’s completely wrong,”  Hal
K. Gillespie , an attorney for the women, said today of the
company’s motion. “It’s evident this is very different.”  “We have a Supreme Court case that supports us, not
them,” he said.  Certification as a class action would enlarge the number of
plaintiffs from seven to 45,000, according to the women’s
complaint. Otherwise they would have to sue individually.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville,  Arkansas , said in its
motion the plaintiffs are attempting to take “a second bite at
the certification apple” after the Supreme Court decision.  “Walmart has strong policies against discrimination; many
years ago Walmart established these policies to help ensure
women are paid and promoted fairly,” Greg Rossiter, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “The claims by the
women bringing this case don’t match the positive experience
that so many other women have had at Walmart.”  The case is Odle v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 3:11-cv-02954,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas
at   tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 