-- Six Ways to Keep Working-Class Voters on Obama’s Side: Ron Klain
-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 2012-03-06T00:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/ways-to-keep-working-class-voters-on-obama-s-side-commentary-by-ron-klain.html
In 1980, I was working on the
campaign of Senator Birch Bayh, the  Indiana  Democrat who was
being challenged by an upstart conservative congressman from
northwest Indiana named Dan Quayle.  One day, I traveled with Bayh to the  Chrysler (2251Q) 
manufacturing plant in New Castle, Indiana. It was supposed to
be fertile ground: Bayh had been the Senate sponsor of the
previous year’s  bailout  bill for the carmaker, and Quayle had
voted against the measure in the House.  Some workers at the plant were indeed enthusiastic to see
Bayh, but some seemed diffident -- and a few were outright
hostile. The hostile ones formed a small group near the senator,
and started yelling at him, “You sold out  Taiwan , you sold out
Taiwan” -- a reference to his  support  for legislation to
normalize relations with what was then known as mainland  China .  Finally, the usually jovial Bayh pivoted on the hecklers,
saying: “You (expletive)s wouldn’t have jobs if my opponent had
gotten his way, and you’re yelling at me about an island that is
7,000 miles away!” On election night, Bayh’s vote from the
working-class neighborhoods around the plant was far lower than
expected, and he lost to Quayle.  This experience was very much on my mind last week when
President Barack Obama gave a feisty, powerful speech at a
 United Auto Workers  meeting in Washington. The union gave him a
hero’s welcome, and why not? Thanks to the president’s smart and
strategic action in rescuing the car industry, UAW members have
jobs -- and if the president’s opponents had their way, they
probably wouldn’t. So isn’t it a no-brainer that auto workers --
and for that matter, most working-class Americans -- will vote
their pocketbooks and support the president this fall?  Values Issues Undercounted  In a word: maybe.  The impact of social issues -- values issues -- on the
electorate is vastly underestimated by most observers and
pundits. The effort to turn politics into statistical analysis
has further exacerbated this lack of understanding, as analysts
seek to find a strict correlation between economic data --
voters’ income levels (or economic gains or losses) -- and
election results.  But consider this bottom-line political fact: In every
election from  1988  through 2008, voters who said that economic
issues were the most important factor in their decision-making
chose the Democratic presidential nominee -- six  for six -- yet
the Republican candidate nonetheless won three of those six
elections. The reason: the Republicans’ margin among voters who
made their choice based on social issues was large enough to
overcome the Democrats’ advantage on economic concerns.  When you look at two heartbreaking defeats for Democrats
that cost them the presidency -- Vice President Al Gore’s loss
in  Tennessee  in 2000, and Senator John Kerry’s loss in Ohio in
2004 -- soft support among working-class voters who rallied
behind  George W. Bush ’s “values” message turned out to be the
difference.  It is true that the impact of social issues in presidential
politics isn’t a one-way street. From 1948 through 1988,
Democrats had never carried  California  and  New Jersey  in the
same presidential election (except for the landslide year of
1964). But concern about the reversal of  Roe v. Wade  by the
 Supreme Court  in the late 1980s polarized moderate, pro-choice
voters in those two states, and they have been solidly
Democratic in every presidential election since 1992 -- a
stunning reversal.  Swing States  Still, in the battleground states of 2012 -- especially in
the industrial Midwest, and the swingable states in the South --
it is critical to keep an eye on the impact that social issues
will have on undecided voters, and to not merely presume that
improving economic news guarantees an Obama victory there.  In 2000, as the  auto industry  was enjoying relatively good
times, auto workers defected to Bush in droves over (unfounded)
fears that Gore would “take away” their hunting rifles. In
2004, the  Washington  Post’s David Finkel  profiled  Ohio voters
with shrinking incomes, working two or three jobs, who
nonetheless voted to re-elect Bush because he “shared their
moral values.”  The Republican candidates’ botched handling of social
issues so far in this cycle -- from contraception to the need
for higher education -- shouldn’t give Democrats a false sense
of security. The Republicans’ social-issue orchestra is just
tuning up, and has historically found its pitch and melody as
the election approaches.  What can Team Obama do to combat the onslaught that is
coming? Here are six ideas:  -- Lead with the life story: Republicans want to paint
Obama as someone who was born at Harvard Law School and who has
enjoyed the high-flying life of a  best-selling author . While the
president’s story was widely known to voters in 2008, it has
since faded from consciousness; his campaign needs to return it
to front and center. Obama was raised by loving grandparents and
a determined  single mother  and learned values of hard work and
achievement from his elders; a young man who gave up offers of
high-paying jobs to help unemployed workers rebuild their
community; a devoted father and husband who checks his kids’
homework and attends his daughters’ sporting events on the
weekend -- even as he shoulders the duties of the highest office
in the land. This is the Obama who must be reintroduced to the
American people in 2012.  -- Root for  Mitt Romney : Most observers believe that the
former Massachusetts governor is by far the strongest Republican
candidate. I disagree. It is hard to imagine an opponent less
capable of leveraging social and values issues against the
president. Any Republican needs so-called Nascar voters to beat
a Democrat; Romney  recently said  that he knows more race-car
owners than drivers. Any Republican will need disaffected,
downscale, working-class social conservatives to beat Obama;
Romney’s privileged upbringing, Wall Street career, and tone-
deaf statements (like  boasting  that his wife owns multiple
Cadillacs) will alienate these voters.  Rick Santorum  and  Newt Gingrich  have botched heavy-handed attempts to connect with this
demographic thus far -- but they at least have some sense of how
to do it. Romney doesn’t.  -- Eschew elitism and embrace the elderly: It’s great that
the president is  taking his fight  for women’s health-care
coverage to the Barnard College commencement; it would be better
if he took it to graduations at community colleges and nursing
schools. Obama’s  challenge in 2012 isn’t with Ivy League women
(and their families), but with working-class men and women who
need to know he shares their values. Likewise, the president’s
relative youth and “change” message are enormously appealing
to younger voters with more progressive values, but the White
House cannot forget that the 2012 presidential electorate will
be the oldest in history -- and that these voters are the most
traditionalist in perspective.  The president cannot -- and
should not -- depart from his own values, but he must constantly
show respect and understanding for voters (especially older
ones) who see these questions differently.  -- Unity with “the uniforms”: The president has an
unmatched record of support for veterans, and for police
officers and firefighters. Affiliation with these groups
conveys a strong message to culturally and socially conservative
voters about values and priorities. Every chance he gets, Obama
should be seen with these critical constituencies, and align
with them. The broader message he sends will be powerful.  -- Principles, not just policies: As I have  argued
previously , it is critical that the president make his economic
case around principles -- fundamental values that he is trying
to fight for -- not just policies. In recent months, the White
House has gotten much sharper on this point, but the discipline
of this approach can’t be relaxed even as the economic news gets
better. If the Republicans want to fight the election on the
battlefield of values, the president must broaden that
conversation to include a discussion of the values and morality
of economic policies, as well.  -- Value the Veep: Readers of this column know that Joe Biden was my boss and is my friend -- so I am clearly biased.
But even his critics acknowledge the vice president’s  strong
appeal to working-class voters -- especially manufacturing
workers and union members in states such as  Ohio ,  Pennsylvania ,
 Michigan ,  Iowa  and  Wisconsin . His  rapport  with these voters is
unmatched, and their attachment to him is obvious. He is a
linchpin of any administration strategy to appeal to these
critical voters.  A few months ago, when some were saying that soft economic
news made the president’s re-election unlikely, I wrote that by
embracing a values-based economic message -- making it clear
which principles he was fighting for, and which values he wanted
to see our economic recovery embrace -- Obama could defy the
data and win.  Now, the converse also must be kept in mind: Good economic
news, in and of itself, doesn’t guarantee re-election. The
president and his team must keep a sharp eye on values voters,
and not let these hard-working men and women slip away if the
Republicans recover from their recent fiascos, and launch
concerted, sophisticated efforts to win their votes on non-
economic issues, as they have in the past.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President Joe
Biden and a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama  on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ron Klain at  rklain@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 