-- Welsh Quest for Borrowing Power Spurred by Jobs Lost in Mining Ghost Towns
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-03-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/welsh-quest-for-borrowing-power-spurred-by-jobs-lost-in-mining-ghost-towns.html
The cast iron gates that once
belonged to the Tredegar Iron and Coal Company in Blaenau Gwent
are all that’s left of the Welsh mining town’s former glory at
the height of Britain’s industrial revolution.  In its place is the highest percentage of  benefit claimants 
of any U.K. municipality and queues at the job center are
lengthening. About 19 percent of residents aged 18 to 24 receive
 job-seekers allowance , more than anywhere else in Britain and
compared with a national average of 8 percent, according to the
 Office for National Statistics .  “There are no jobs,” said Gavin Griffin, 31, who hasn’t
worked for four years since a local factory shut. His
girlfriend, Susan Elias, 23, left school at 16 and has never
worked. “My dad worked in the mines all his life. There’s
nothing left in this town anymore,” Griffin said.  As Prime Minister  David Cameron  implements the biggest
budget cuts in absolute terms of anywhere in  Europe , the Scots,
Welsh and Northern Irish are seeking more power over their own
economies. That’s threatening to disunite the  United Kingdom 
more than at any time in three centuries as Scotland prepares to
hold a referendum on independence in 2014.  The Welsh Assembly, created in 1999 along with the Scottish
Parliament, is seeking the power to borrow on its own and have
more control over tax. First Minister Carwyn Jones renewed his
call for greater spending on infrastructure and more devolved
powers at the  Welsh Labour Party conference  on Feb. 18.  ‘Hard to Resist’  “It’s the curse of devolution, the more you go down this
path, the more the devil drives you down it and expectations are
raised,” Patrick Minford, professor of applied economics at
Cardiff University, said by phone. “The arguments are quite
populist and very hard to resist like ‘why aren’t we running our
own affairs?’ and so on. It acquires momentum.”  The ageing shopping center in Tredegar, a town of about
14,800 in Blaenau Gwent, is dotted with pram-pushing mothers and
bored teenagers braving the cold wind from the nearby hills.  Budget shops such as Farmfoods and Peacocks stand along
with vacant plots adorned with posters warning against theft.
Outside the town, bulldozers shift coal on the slag heaps, a
legacy of the  mining industry .  “In the valleys and other parts of  Wales  we can’t turn
around people’s economic fortunes without having control over
those financial levers like borrowing,” said Leanne Wood, a
member of the assembly bidding to lead her pro-independence
Plaid Cymru party, a contest that will be decided on March 15.  State Benefits  About  11,660 people  in Blaenau Gwent claim benefits, 27
percent of the population, said the statistics office. The
jobless rate is 14 percent. For those in work, the average full-
time employee in the area earns 385 pounds ($735) a week, about
120 pounds less than the  U.K. average .  Tredegar’s population declined about 25 percent from 1951
to 2001 as the closure of coal mines and factories led people to
look elsewhere for work. The town’s most famous son is Aneurin Bevan, who founded the  National Health Service  in 1948.  “I’ve seen the town change since I was growing up,” said
Tammy Sutton, 34, who borrows from her parents to support her
two sons, Kye, aged 12, and Kenzie, aged 3, on top of the 157
pounds a week she receives in state support. “Shops are closing
in town and there don’t seem to be any jobs.”  Income Source  Wales’s three million people get a grant from Westminster.
While the cut to its budget is less than in some municipalities
in England, Wales is facing the largest of the devolved nations.
Wales will receive 58 billion pounds over four years, a
reduction of 2.7 percent, compared with a 1.9 percent decline in
 Northern Ireland  and a 1.8 percent cut for Scotland, according
to the U.K.  government spending review  set in October 2010.  Capital spending  in Wales, or money to be used for roads
and other infrastructure, was lowered by 41 percent over four
years to 4.7 billion pounds, compared with 38 percent in
Scotland and 37 percent in Northern Ireland, the review states.  “It’s easy to say ‘give me more money, give me more
money,’ particularly if you’re not responsible for raising that
money,” Cheryl Gillan, U.K. secretary of state for Wales, said
in a telephone interview. “We’re spending a great deal on
infrastructure that is going to benefit Wales.”  Wales has had borrowing powers since 1975 that it’s never
used because the amount raised would be deducted from its grant
from  London . Jones, who as first minister runs Wales’s devolved
administration, said its borrowing should be excluded from the
grant and more money is needed to invest in building projects to
create jobs and growth.  ‘No Sense’  “We will end up as the only part of the U.K. where the
government can’t borrow to fund large capital projects,” Jones
said in an interview at the assembly in Cardiff last month. “It
makes no sense that where the U.K. government can borrow to
build a new road or railway, we can’t do it.”  The  Scotland  Bill, currently being discussed by U.K.
lawmakers, will allow Scotland to borrow as much as 2.2 billion
pounds over 10 years and have more control over public spending
and taxation even without the full independence that First
Minister  Alex Salmond  is campaigning for.  The Commission on Devolution, set up by Westminster in
October, is reviewing whether the Welsh Government should
receive greater tax-raising powers. The commission must report
its findings by autumn 2012.  Tax Control  “If you spend money, you ought to have the ability to
raise it,” Paul Silk, chairman of the  commission , said by
telephone from his office in London. The Welsh government has
“responsibility for spending but no ability to raise revenue,
which is very unusual for a sub-national government,” he said.  The Welsh Assembly is asking Westminster for control over
air passenger duty, stamp duty, landfill tax, aggregates levy
and revenue from tolls across the Severn Bridge that links Wales
and  England . The measures may add 250 million pounds of annual
revenue for Wales, said Jones.  Greece, Portugal and Ireland show the perils of
accumulating too much debt when economic growth is slowing, said
David Davies, a legislator for Wales in the U.K. Parliament in
London and a member of Cameron’s  Conservative Party .  Those three countries were forced to seek aid from the
 International Monetary Fund  and European Union as financial
markets shut them out.  “Giving Wales borrowing powers at a time when we’re
suffering a huge financial crisis as a result of  government
borrowing  is extraordinary,” Davies said. “Wales wants to
embark on its own course of creating even further debt which
somebody somewhere is going to have to pay off.”  Debt Pile  U.K. net debt exceeded 1 trillion pounds in December for
the first time since records began in 1993, equating to 64.2
percent of gross domestic product, the statistics office said on
Jan. 24. That compares with 59.4 percent a year earlier. It
dipped to 989 billion pounds in January.  Off Tredegar’s main street, stone plaques commemorate
Bevan, a miner’s son. The engraved words reflect his political
view, shaped by the mining community and the Tredegar Medical
Aid Society, an earlier form of health service.  “All I am doing is extending to the entire population of
Britain the benefits we had in Tredegar for a generation or
more,” it says. “We are going to ‘Tredegarise’ you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  