-- Wilbur Ross Says Irish May Reject EU Pact Vote Before Re-Run
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-03-06T17:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/wilbur-ross-says-irish-may-reject-eu-pact-vote-before-re-run-1-.html
U.S. billionaire  Wilbur Ross , whose
company has invested in Bank of Ireland Plc, said Irish voters
may initially reject a European fiscal compact before approving
the accord in a second vote.  Unlike previous referendums, an Irish rejection of the euro
region’s latest financial agreement wouldn’t veto the deal for
the rest of Europe. Ireland will be ineligible for the
permanent European Union bailout fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, if it didn’t ratify the compact in a referendum due
to be held later this year.  “Despite that, there is some chance that this will be
turned down in the first ballot and then hopefully approved the
second time around,” Ross said in an e-mailed response to
questions, adding that “hopefully” the EU will make
some concessions to Ireland ahead of balloting.  Ireland is discussing with the so-called bailout troika of
institutions, the  International Monetary Fund , the  European
Central Bank  and European Commission, methods of reducing the
cost of rescuing the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish
Nationwide Building Society. The state has injected about 62
billion euros ($81.3 billion) into the financial system.  An accord on the banking debt would be “hugely
significant,” Irish Energy Minister Pat Rabbitte said in an
interview with Dublin-based RTE Radio today. “It would be a
psychological boost to the morale of the Irish people.”  Polls  Two polls, published by the Sunday Business Post and Sunday
Independent newspapers on March 5, show the “yes” side has a
lead of about 20 percentage points as the campaign opened. Irish
voters rejected changes to  Europe ’s governing treaties in 2001
and 2008, before reruns passed the proposals.  Ross was one of five investors who last year bought a 35
percent stake in Bank of Ireland, the country’s biggest lender.
The lender is the only domestic bank to stay out of majority
state control.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny , speaking in parliament
yesterday, said the government had not yet fixed a date for the
vote. The compact agreed to by 25 of the EU’s 27 members
requires nations to virtually eliminate structural deficits,
creates an “automatic correction mechanism” and enshrines the
new measures in national law.  The treaty also provides for tighter control of tax and
spending by governments that overstep the bloc’s deficit limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  