-- Wind Turbine Prices Fell 4% in Second Half of ’11, BNEF Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-06T10:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/wind-turbine-prices-dropped-4-in-second-half-of-2011-bnef-says.html
The price for  wind turbines  fell 4
percent to the lowest since at least 2008 because of competition
from Chinese manufacturers and excess capacity to build the
machines, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  Turbine contracts signed in the second half of 2011 for
delivery in 2013 dropped to 910,000 euros ($1.2 million) a
megawatt compared with the previous six months, the London-based
industry analyst said today in an e-mailed statement. The price
was the lowest since the analyst began tracking prices in June
2008 and down from as much as 1.21 million euros a megawatt in
2009.  Competition in the market for wind turbines has depressed
prices worldwide, trimming profits at companies led by  Vestas
Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s largest turbine maker. Vestas,
based in Aarhus, Denmark, reported a loss four times wider than
analyst estimates in February, squeezed by Chinese competition
including from  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)  and  Xinjiang Goldwind
Science & Technology Co. (2208)   “Short-term pain among wind manufacturers is now
undeniable and unavoidable,” Michael Liebreich, chief executive
officer of Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in the statement.
The price drop is “good news on the demand side as wind is more
competitive with coal and gas on a dollar-per-megawatt hour
basis, which is vital given ever-lower levels of subsidy and
support.”  Most turbine manufacturers expect further price declines
this year and next and do not anticipate a recovery until 2014,
according to the research company. The Bloomberg New Energy
Finance Wind Turbine Price Index, which collects confidential
data from 38 of the world’s largest buyers of wind turbines,
showed prices dropped across the world including developing
markets such as  Brazil ,  Chile , Ecuador,  Pakistan , Ethiopia and
 Australia  as  China  competed for orders.  Prices for older turbines fell the most to 0.85 million
euros a megawatt, a 10 percent decline on the previous six
months. Even more efficient, newer turbine models saw price
declines.  “Those manufacturers which can achieve leading cost
positions are going to be in a good strategic position when the
market enters its next expansionary phase in a few years,” he
said. The “median” new wind farm will be competitive with
coal-based power without subsidies by 2016, the analyst said in
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  