-- Wisconsin Voter Photo-ID Law Temporarily Blocked Amid Rights Group’s Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-03-07T23:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/wisconsin-judge-temporarily-blocks-state-s-voter-photo-identification-law.html
A  Wisconsin (STOWI1)  law requiring voters to
show photo identification to receive a ballot was temporarily
blocked by a state judge after a civil rights group sued
Governor  Scott Walker  over the measure.  Judge David Flanagan in Dane County yesterday ruled that
the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People
demonstrated a probability of success in overturning the 2011
 law  and that a temporary injunction was necessary to prevent
“irreparable harm.”  “If no injunction is issued, a clearly improper impairment
of a most vital element of our society will occur,” Flanagan
wrote in his order. “The duty of the court is clear. The case
has been made.”  Democrats and Republicans are at odds over voting laws
before the 2012 elections. Democrats say they are seeking to
ensure voters’ access to the polls while Republicans such as
Walker argue more needs to be done to prevent voter fraud.
Similar suits claiming the  Wisconsin  law unconstitutionally
burdens the rights of people including senior citizens and
minorities are pending in state and federal court.  Wisconsin Attorney General J.B.  Van Hollen  said in an e-
mailed statement today that he will appeal the ruling to ensure
that the “properly enacted and legally sufficient” law is in
effect before the state’s April 3 presidential primary.  ‘Vast Majority’  “The vast majority of eligible electors either has a
qualifying photo ID or can obtain one without significant
burdens,” Van Hollen said in the statement. “For the rest, the
law makes accommodations to reduce any potential burden.”  He said there is an educational campaign about the law and
a requirement that a state agency assist voters in getting
proper identification.  The Wisconsin Republican Party today filed a complaint with
the state’s Judicial Commission asking for an investigation into
its claims that Flanagan signed a petition to recall Walker,
party spokesman Ben Sparks said in a phone interview. Flanagan
should have recused himself from the case and his ruling should
be voided, Sparks said.  “By signing a petition to recall the Governor, Judge
Flanagan made his bias in the case known, which represents a
clear conflict of interest,” Sparks said. The Wisconsin
Republican party is urging the Judicial Commission “to take up
this matter and investigate these allegations as soon as
possible.”  Recall Petition  Flanagan didn’t immediately return calls to his home and
office or an e-mail seeking comment on the allegations about the
recall petition. A message on the office voice-mail system asks
callers to submit questions about the ruling in writing.  Sparks provided a copy of what he said was the recall
petition bearing the judge’s signature. That couldn’t be
immediately confirmed independently.  More than 1.9 million petition signatures aimed at forcing
recalls of Walker, his lieutenant governor and four state
senators, all Republicans, have been submitted to election
officials for review.  In his order, Flanagan said that while a majority of
eligible voters in Wisconsin have a valid driver’s license,
those who rely on a state voter identification card must first
pay for a birth certificate, which the Missouri supreme court in
a different case concluded was an “improper burden” for
voters.  The NAACP’s evidence in the case also offered a “picture
of carousel visits” to government offices, dysfunctional
computer systems, misinformation and significant investments of
time, which is “burdensome, all the more for the elderly and
the disabled,” Flanagan wrote.  A trial is set for April 16.  The case is Milwaukee Branch of the NAACP v. Walker, 11-CV-
5492,  Dane County , Wisconsin, Circuit Court (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  