-- World Trade Center Developers Seek to Build Broadcast Antenna
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-03-06T20:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/world-trade-center-developers-seek-to-build-broadcast-antenna-atop-tower.html
The builders of 1 World Trade Center
in  New York  plan to offer to transmit radio and television
signals from the skyscraper’s spire, potentially competing with
the Empire State Building.  The Durst Organization is close to an agreement with the
 Port Authority  of New York and  New Jersey , which owns the 1,776-
foot tower under construction in lower  Manhattan , to build and
operate an broadcast antenna atop the building, they said today
in a joint statement. The Durst Organization oversees the
development as an equity partner with the bi-state agency.  The agreement revives part of the original concept for the
building, to rebuild the transmission center that was lost when
the twin towers collapsed in the 2001 terrorist attacks.  “One World Trade will be New York’s premium broadcasting
facility,” Jordan Barowitz, a Durst spokesman, said in
telephone interview. “The business has changed in the last
decade. Among other things, there’s been a shift from analog to
digital.”  Broadcasters migrated to the Empire State Building after
the attacks. The 102-story tower’s antenna generated about $16.1
million in 2010, according to a regulatory filing by Malkin
Holdings LLC, which controls the property.  A voice mail left with Nicole Grzywacz, the Empire State
Building’s public relations manager, wasn’t immediately
returned.  The Durst firm agreed to spend about $7.4 million to build
the 1 World Trade Center antenna, according to the statement. It
is prepared to pay another $20 million more in “tenanting
costs” to enable broadcasters to use the spire, which is
expected to generate about $10 million a year in revenue,
Barowitz said.  Broadcasters would be able to use the trade center spire as
well as an antenna the Durst company operates at 4 Times Square
in Midtown, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  