-- Zumtobel Plummets After Third-Quarter Loss: Vienna Mover
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-03-06T17:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-06/zumtobel-plummets-on-swinging-to-third-quarter-loss-vienna-move.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Royal Philips
Electronics NV (PHIA) , the world’s two-largest lighting makers,
declined in German and Dutch trading after rival  Zumtobel AG (ZAG) 
reported a surprise loss.  Zumtobel Chief Executive Officer Harald Sommerer plans
“major restructuring” of a components unit after a “very
disappointing” quarter, he said in a telephone interview today.
Shares of the Dornbirn, Austria-based company slumped as much as
15 percent today.  Margins at Zumtobel will narrow this year as an overhaul
gets underway, Sommerer said. The outlook adds to worries about
profitability levels in the lighting industry that are already
being hurt by Asian competition and a consumer-spending slowdown
in mature markets.  “This is a sentiment effect,” William Mackie, a London-
based analyst at Berenberg Bank, said by phone. “Zumtobel gives
us insight into the lighting industry and it’s a disappointing
profit warning.”  Philips, rated “hold” at Berenberg, declined 4 percent to
14.95 euros in Amsterdam trading today, the biggest drop in
almost two months, while Siemens closed 2.3 percent lower at
72.55 euros in  Frankfurt . Zumtobel dropped 14 percent to 11.11
euros in Vienna, the biggest decline in more than four years.  Zumtobel’s strategy mirrors cutbacks at its larger rivals,
which have suffered from spiraling costs for rare earths.
Philips aims to save 325 million euros ($427 million) in its
lighting business by reducing overhead costs, cutting staff and
shifting production to lower-wage countries. Osram AG, Siemens
lighting unit, is cutting 1,050 jobs in  Germany , and indicated
job cuts abroad may follow.  Unexpected Loss  Zumtobel today reported a net loss of 15.2 million euros in
the quarter ended Jan. 31, versus a 13 million-euro profit a
year earlier, on a deteriorating performance at its components
business.  “We think that management needs to take more radical
action,” said Sven Weier, an analyst at UBS in Frankfurt, with
a “neutral” rating on Zumtobel. “The third-quarter results
were even worse than we thought. That alone would not be an
issue if a major restocking event or decisive cost action were
taken. Both do not appear to be evident to us going by
management comments.”  Philips which derives about one-third of total sales from
 lighting , said profit margins in lighting collapsed to 2 percent
from 10 percent in the fourth quarter. Revenue at Osram rose 8
percent in the fiscal year through Sept. 30, while net income
fell 2.8 percent to 309 million euros.  Siemens, which last year postponed Osram’s planned initial
public offering, is looking to proceed with the sale this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  