-- 
‘Cayenne Crisis’ Hurts BMW as Much as Porsche With Spain Struggling: Cars

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-12-12T23:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/-cayenne-crisis-hurts-bmw-as-much-as-porsche-as-spain-sales-dry-up-cars.html
Roberto Murga, a construction
manager from  Barcelona , loved his platinum gray  Porsche  Cayenne
until the debt crisis made the sport-utility vehicle’s leather
interior and electronic seats expendable.  The 66,370-euro ($88,800) status symbol is now unnecessary
ballast for Murga, 33, who like other Spaniards has been forced
to cut spending because of the country’s weakening economy. Car
demand, which has halved since peaking in 2007, probably won’t
recover this decade, analysts predict.  “I can’t splurge anymore, and maintaining my precious
Cayenne is just too expensive,” said Murga, who made as much as
8,000 euros a month before the real estate bubble went bust
three years ago, forcing him to fire half his workers. “We have
no profit at all. We just try to survive.”  Murga has lots of company. The end of the property and
construction boom, fueled by a speculative bubble and low
 interest rates  during the previous decade, caused Spain’s
 unemployment rate  to more than double to 22.8 percent. The
economy, which stagnated in the third quarter, may contract in
the final three months. The Cayenne,  Porsche SE ’s best-selling
model, has become a symbol of the excess, with the scaling back
of expectations dubbed the “Cayenne crisis,” said Victor Conde, marketing professor at  Madrid ’s Universidad Nebrija.  Cayenne ‘Paradigm’  “This car was the paradigm of how we lived above what we
could afford,” Conde said. “Banks were giving way too many
loans and everybody here was driving a Cayenne.”  Those days are over and may never be coming back. Porsche
sales in Spain and  Portugal  have fallen 34 percent from the 2007
peak to 1,900 cars last year. Deliveries of  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG ’s namesake brand have dropped 47 percent to 32,500.  It’s not just luxury brands that are suffering. Its local
 auto industry , a rare source of manufacturing jobs in an economy
dominated by services and tourism, has also been hard hit. That
represents a particular challenge for  Volkswagen AG ’s Seat, the
only Spain-based carmaker.  Overall car sales in  Spain  will likely total 810,700
vehicles this year, down 51 percent from 2007, when 1.61 million
cars were sold in the market. That level won’t be reached again
this decade, according to Jonathon Poskitt, an analyst with LMC
Automotive in Oxford,  England .  “The real issue is that there appears to be no quick fix
on the horizon,” said Poskitt. “The euro-zone crisis is
hammering confidence in the region, and Spain in particular has
a massive problem with the unemployment rate.” The European car
market has fallen 13 percent over the past four years.  Production Cuts  Carmakers in Spain are responding by trimming production.
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  will furlough 4,000 workers for 39 days at its
assembly plant in  Valencia  next year.  Renault SA (RNO)  plans to
temporarily lay off 2,295 workers at its plant in Valladolid for
as many as 29 days in 2012. The French carmaker will also
suspend the night shift at its Palencia plant starting in
January.  The bleak outlook for the Spanish market is pushing Seat
and other local auto companies to expand into other markets. The
VW unit will start sales in  China  next year and is broadening
its product offering with the new Mii city car. It’s also
updating its Ibiza and Leon compacts and the Toledo sedan.  “Seat has to respond to the challenges of a complicated
situation, chiefly in our home market,” Paul Sevin, the Spanish
brand’s sales chief, said in an interview. “Seat’s overall
performance makes us upbeat and definitely represents an
improvement over 2010. Seat’s success does not depend on a
single market.”  Seat narrowed its operating loss to 101 million euros in
the first nine months of 2011 from 218 million euros a year
earlier. Revenue rose 6 percent to 3.96 billion euros.  ‘Broken’ Market  Cie Automotive SA (CIE) , a car parts supplier based in Bilbao, is
also escaping the market’s slump by pursuing sales outside
Spain, where it generates only about 5 percent of its total
revenue.  “The market here is broken, but has clearly reached a
bottom and should start a recovery during the second half of
next year,” Chairman Anton Pradera said in an interview. Cie’s
clients include VW, Renault, Ford and  General Motors Co. (GM)  GM’s
money-losing Opel unit operates a factory in Zaragoza.  Without labor market reforms, the Spanish auto industry
could be in for further cuts as growth shifts to  Asia  making the
Spanish plants potentially expendable amid an overcapacity glut
in  Europe , said Ricardo Mateo, an economics professor at
Universidad de Navarra in Pamplona.  “Without more flexibility, there’s no future for this
industry,” Mateo said. “Labor costs and taxes in Spain are
high, unions very strong, and the industry needs to remain
competitive as cars are now also produced in China, Korea,  India 
and  South Africa .”  ‘Driving a Renault’  Customers are adapting to the new reality. Juan Ramon
Valdivia, 19, who works at his family’s restaurant in Malaga on
Spain’s southern coast, is looking to unload his Cayenne for a
less expensive VW or  Peugeot. (UG)   “I didn’t pay much attention to price before, but now I
do,” said Valdivia, who’s adjusting his priorities after
revenue at the restaurant declined 30 percent over the past two
years. “The Cayenne consumes too much gasoline.”  While Valdivia and Murga have turned into ready sellers of
their Cayennes, the availability of high-end used cars hasn’t
helped dealers like Angel Rodriguez, sales manager at Arguelles
Automoviles in Madrid, who said revenue is down 60 percent from
peak times and profit margins have tumbled 50 percent.  The Cayenne was the “favorite car for many people,
especially in the  construction industry ,” said Rodriguez, who’s
been selling cars for 30 years. “Later many found out they
couldn’t afford it, or even pay for it at all, and I see them
now driving a Renault.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  