-- 
AT&T’s $39 Billion T-Mobile Deal May Be Near Death as U.S. Case Is Delayed

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-12-13T05:04:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/t-mobile-antitrust-trial-delay-granted-by-judge-after-u-s-at-t-request.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  may have fended off 
failure temporarily for its proposed $39 billion purchase of 
T-Mobile USA Inc. after a federal judge agreed to put on hold 
a government challenge to the biggest merger announced this year.  U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle in Washington
yesterday granted a request from both sides to delay the
antitrust case, which was scheduled for trial Feb. 13. AT&T has
until Jan. 12 to file a report with the court explaining whether
it still plans to try to buy T-Mobile, Huvelle said.  AT&T, which last week argued for the trial to go ahead,
must say in that report whether it intends “to proceed with the
transaction at issue in this litigation” or whether it will
pursue a different transaction involving T-Mobile, the judge
wrote.  “By agreeing to stay the proceedings, AT&T avoided a
potential bombshell -- if the Judge had decided to dismiss the
case,” said Allen Grunes, a lawyer for  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ,
which opposes the transaction. “This way, AT&T buys itself 30
days to decide whether to push forward with the trial, to try to
settle, or to bow out gracefully.”  AT&T’s report will also explain the status of any related
proceedings before the Federal Communications Commission as well
as “anticipated plans and timetable for seeking any necessary
approval” for a deal from the commission.  ‘Deal is Dead’  “They’ve conceded that this deal is dead and signaled that
they are going to try and have additional discussions with the
Justice Department to see if there’s any kind of alternative
deal they would agree to,” said Andrew Gavil, an antitrust
professor at Howard University School of Law in  Washington . “At
the same time, AT&T will have to be in discussions with Deutsche
Telekom about whether they are willing to release them from this
deal to discuss another deal.”  Huvelle scheduled a hearing for Jan. 18.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on yesterday’s order.  “We are actively considering whether and how to revise our
current transaction to achieve the necessary regulatory
approvals,” Dallas-based AT&T said in an e-mailed statement.  AT&T must pay T-Mobile about $3 billion, as well as
spectrum and other services worth about another $4 billion if
the transaction doesn’t close by Sept. 20, according to
analysts.  Breakup Fee  “Essentially AT&T is now deciding whether to try to come
up with a solution to fix the transaction or to just pay the
breakup fee and walk away,” said  Jeffrey S. Jacobovitz , an
antitrust litigator with McCarthy, Sweeney & Harkaway PC in
Washington who isn’t involved in the case.  Yesterday’s decision to delay the antitrust trial comes
three days after the government said it would move to stay or
dismiss the lawsuit due to AT&T’s decision to remove the
transaction from consideration by the FCC.  T-Mobile’s lawyer, George Cary, told Huvelle Dec. 9 that
without a ruling from the court, AT&T has no chance of
completing the purchase.  “If this case doesn’t go ahead, then the deal is over,”
he said.  The Dec. 9 hearing marked AT&T’s first appearance in court
since it pulled the FCC application on Nov. 24. The company
abandoned its bid after the agency’s staff recommended the
purchase be rejected and the chairman said he’d push for a
review that could last a year.  AT&T said it planned to focus on winning clearance from the
 Justice Department  first or revising its proposal.  FCC Application  Huvelle said at the hearing that without an FCC application
in process it might be impossible to meet the deadline for the
deal and the trial would be a waste of time.  “We don’t have any confidence that we are spending all
this time and effort and the taxpayers’ money and that we’re not
being spun,” Huvelle said.  The FCC would probably be involved in any negotiations
between AT&T and the Justice Department, Gavil said.  “It doesn’t make any sense to work out a deal and announce
it only to have the FCC say, ‘Not interested,’” he said.  The Justice Department sued AT&T and  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s
T-Mobile unit Aug. 31, saying a combination of the two companies
would substantially reduce competition. Seven states and  Puerto
Rico  joined the effort to block the deal, which would make AT&T
the biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  AT&T Benefit  “Surely DOJ and the judge understand that the longer this
plays out, the more it is actually to AT&T’s benefit, because
delay can only weaken two of its competitors, T-Mobile (which is
immobilized) and Sprint (which is limping),” Albert Foer,
president of the American Antitrust Institute, which has opposed
AT&T’s acquisition. “I don’t think this will be allowed to play
out much longer unless there is serious settlement in the works,
which I strongly doubt.”  AT&T has discussed selling as much as 40 percent of
T-Mobile’s assets to smaller regional phone companies to help
prop up a fourth player in some markets.  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS)  and  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , are two companies
that have been previously named in these discussions.  AT&T’s asset selling strategy would be designed to address
Justice’s concerns about competitiveness and show it is
interested in reaching an approval through compromise, said
 Michael Nelson , an analyst with Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in
 New York , who has a “buy” rating on the shares.  Approval Obstacles  “They would like to come back with some sort of solution
that would please Justice,” Nelson said yesterday in an
interview.  Still, even heavy divestitures in local markets may not be
enough to win regulatory approval, said  James Ratcliffe  of
 Barclays Capital  in a Dec. 9 report.  “We’re very skeptical that AT&T and T-Mobile can come up
with sufficient divestitures to satisfy the DOJ,” Ratcliffe
wrote. “Our analysis shows that even divesting half of T-
Mobile’s subscribers to Leap and MetroPCS would still leave the
vast majority of U.S. wireless customers in markets” where
concentration is higher than the Justice Department’s ceiling,
said Ratcliffe who has a “neutral” rating.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 1:11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 