-- 
Laborer-to-Billionaire Tinkler Plans More Coal Bids After Whitehaven Deal

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-12-13T06:55:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/laborer-turned-billionaire-tinkler-plans-more-coal-acquisitions.html
Electrician-turned-miner Nathan Tinkler, Australia’s youngest billionaire who yesterday agreed
to sell his coal assets for A$2.6 billion ($2.6 billion) in
stock, is looking for his next mining deal overseas.  Tinkler, 36, sold his house in 2006 to help buy the A$30
million Middlemount coal lease in Australia’s Queensland state
from  Canada ’s  Sennen Resources Ltd. (SN)  Now he’s set to become the
biggest shareholder in a new company created by  Whitehaven Coal
Ltd. (WHC) ’s purchase of his Aston Resources Ltd.  “I like risk, I like leverage and that’s something that’s
served me well in the past and will serve me well in the
future,” Tinkler said in a phone interview yesterday. “I have
an aggressive mindset in the way that I do things and the way I
deliver opportunities.”  Whitehaven yesterday agreed to buy Tinkler’s Australian
mining assets for at least A$2.6 billion in stock, pushing the
value of coal deals this year to a record. Sydney-based
Whitehaven offered 1.89 of its shares for every one of Aston’s,
for a total value of A$2.15 billion. Tinkler is Aston’s largest
shareholder with a 32 percent stake.  “He seems to be the kind of person who gets things done,”
 Peter Chilton , who helps manage about $790 million at
Constellation Capital Management LLC in Sydney, said in a phone
interview. “He appears to be quite good,” at doing deals.  Whitehaven, which slipped 3.3 percent to A$5.55 at the
close in Sydney today, also agreed to buy his closely held
exploration company Boardwalk Resources Pty for at least A$477
million in shares. The two deals give Tinkler a 19 percent stake
in the new company. Aston dropped 1 percent today.  Coal Deals  Buying Aston gives Whitehaven control of the Maules Creek
steelmaking coal project, which will more than double the
company’s output by 2016. Rising demand for coal in  China  and
 India  has pushed coal deals globally to a record $40.3 billion
this year, compared with $36.7 billion last year.  The “massive” industry consolidation in mining is set to
continue, driven by low valuations, BlackRock Inc., which
manages $36 billion in natural resources funds, said in October.  Market volatility has created opportunities for mining
companies benefiting from strong  commodity prices. (CRY)  The value of
miners has  fallen (BWMING)  by 28 percent this year, according to the
Bloomberg World Mining Index, compared with a 9 percent decline
in  commodity prices  as measured by the Thomson Reuters/
Jefferies CRB Index, which tracks prices of 19 commodities from
copper to corn.  The collapse in equity markets has created a gap between
value and stock prices, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
analysts led by  Lyndon Fagan  said in a Nov. 25 report.  Doubling Returns  Tinkler sold the Middlemount coking coal tenement to
Macarthur Coal Ltd. in 2007 for A$265 million in cash and almost
25 million Macarthur shares, worth A$200 million at the time.
That made him the second-largest Macarthur holder behind  Ken
Talbot , who Tinkler said was his role model in business.  Talbot, who died in a plane crash in the Republic of Congo
en route to one of his iron ore investments in 2010, headed the
closely held Talbot Group that held a number of stakes in
resources companies in Australia and overseas.  Five months later, in May 2008, Tinkler sold his Macarthur
stake to  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker, reaping
a profit of about A$445 million. He then bought Maules Creek, a
coal asset in New South Wales, from  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  for A$480
million in August 2010.  Overseas Opportunities  Seeking funds to develop the project, Tinkler listed  Aston
Resources (AZT) , containing Maules Creek, in August 2010, raising
A$400 million in a share sale that valued the company at A$1.2
billion. With a fortune of A$1.13 billion, according to Business
Review Weekly magazine, he’s Australia’s youngest billionaire.  Similar to when he received his stake in Macarthur,
Tinkler, who has an electrical fitter qualification, won’t take
up a board position on the combined Whitehaven-Aston company
because of the demands of such a position of a publicly traded
company.  “I put good people on the board to represent my
interests,” said Tinkler. “My interest in coal is expanding a
lot further, a lot more outside of  Australia . I’m seeing a lot
more opportunities overseas these days than in Australia and I
want to be free to pursue those.”  Rival Port  Last month, Tinkler’s Hunter Ports proposed building a
A$2.5 billion coal export terminal in Newcastle, the world’s
biggest port for thermal coal, to ship coal from Aston and other
projects to global markets. The plan competes with one submitted
by the current operator Port Waratah Coal Services Ltd. and
seeks to double the quantity being shipped annually from the
harbor in New South Wales.  Tinkler worked at a number of different coal mines after
completing his apprenticeship before setting up his company
Custom Mining Solutions that provided electrical services to the
 mining industry .  “Most of what I learned about coal mining was from working
with good people across a combination of coal operations,” he
said. “I was fortunate to pick up a few things on the way
through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  