-- 
Alexza Surges After Panel Backs Inhaled Antipsychotic Drug

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-12-13T21:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/alexza-wins-panel-s-backing-for-inhaled-antipsychotic-drug-1-.html
Alexza Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXA)  climbed
the most in 11 months after a U.S. panel backed the drugmaker’s
plan to sell an inhaled antipsychotic drug that may put some
patients at risk for respiratory failure.  Alexza rose 25 percent to 78 cents at 4 p.m. New York time,
the most since Jan. 14, a day after outside advisers to the  Food
and Drug Administration  recommended that the agency approve a
single daily dose of Adasuve for schizophrenia and bipolar
mania. The 9-8 vote, in Adelphi,  Maryland , was contingent on the
company using a risk mitigation plan proposed by the FDA.  Adasuve would be the  first product  for  Mountain View ,
California-based Alexza. The therapy uses an  inhalation device 
developed by the company to deliver a vaporized form of the 36-
year-old antipsychotic drug loxapine to the lungs for rapid
absorption into the bloodstream. The FDA, which doesn’t have to
follow the panel’s recommendation, aims to decide on the product
by Feb. 4.  “This product offers the potential to be a significant
contributor to an important need,” panel member Andrew Winokur,
director of psychopharmacology at the University of Connecticut
School of Medicine in Farmington, said before the vote. Alexza
presented “impressive efficacy data,” and the FDA’s risk-
mitigation proposal was “reassuring,” he said.  50-50 Chance  The drug has a 50-50 chance of winning approval without an
FDA requirement for more safety studies,  Jason Kantor , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  San Francisco , said yesterday
in a note to clients. Kantor, who has a “sector perform”
rating on the stock, estimates sales of the drug, if approved,
may reach $150 million.  Alexza’s goal is to bring Adasuve to the market in 2012,
Chief Executive Officer Thomas B. King said in a statement
today. The company’s shares have declined 38 percent this year.  While loxapine was approved by the FDA in 1975, Adasuve
would be the first inhaled treatment for agitation associated
with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The product would
compete with injectible forms of  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Zyprexa,
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Abilify and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Geodon,
part of a newer class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics.  While Adasuve is effective as a fast-acting treatment for
agitation among patients with schizophrenia and bipolar
disorder, it can cause bronchial spasms that may be fatal in
people with conditions such as asthma or chronic obstructive
pulmonary disorder, FDA staff said Dec. 7 in a  report .  No Precedent  “No regulatory precedent exists for a product that has
this degree of bronchospasm as an adverse event,” Theresa
Michele, a medical officer in the FDA’s pulmonary products
division, told the panel.  The advisory panel’s narrow vote on whether Adasuve should
be approved showed a “lack of conviction” that means “the
decision is essentially left to the FDA,” Kantor said.  Adasuve failed to win approval in October 2010 because the
agency was concerned about the risks of pulmonary toxicity.
Alexza resubmitted its application in August with a proposed
mitigation strategy that includes screening patients for
respiratory risks and monitoring people who take Adasuve for an
hour after treatment.  FDA Worries  The company’s proposal didn’t resolve the FDA’s concerns
because it may be difficult for health-care providers to
identify respiratory distress in psychiatric patients who are
“uncooperative and severely disorganized,” Francis Becker, a
medical officer in the FDA’s division of psychiatry products,
told the panel.  “The scenario that all of us are worried about at FDA is
that a patient, whose asthma is not detected for whatever
reason, gets treated in an emergency setting, calms down, and is
sort of put off to the side and not carefully observed,” Thomas Laughren, director of the FDA’s Division of Psychiatry Products,
said at the meeting. “And they’re slowly getting into trouble
because no one’s monitoring them.”  A company-funded  study  published in January in the British
Journal of Psychiatry found that Adasuve started to work within
10 minutes of inhalation and was more effective than a placebo
in cutting agitation levels within two hours.  Alexza was able to recruit participants “very quickly”
for the clinical trials because “patients wanted to use this
product,” James Cassella, Alexza’s senior vice president for
research and development, said in a presentation to the panel.
Adasuve is “non-invasive, non-coercive and helps maintain the
patient-physician therapeutic alliance.”  There haven’t been any studies directly comparing Adasuve
with other drugs approved to treat agitation in patients with
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, the FDA reviewers said.  While Lilly earned $5 billion from Zyprexa last year, sales
may drop to $2.1 billion in 2012 amid generic competition. The
FDA approved the first Zyprexa copies in October. Bristol-Myers
earned almost $2.6 billion from Abilify last year, while
Pfizer’s Geodon had $1 billion in revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  