-- 
American Vanadium Seeks Partners to Build Batteries for Renewables

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-12-12T06:52:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/american-vanadium-seeks-partners-to-build-batteries-for-renewables.html
American Vanadium Corp ., building
the only vanadium mine in the U.S., has held talks with  Sumitomo
Corp. (8053)  and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  about using the metal for
batteries used to store renewable energy.  “What we really need to find is who has the technology and
who’s willing to work with us to develop that technology into a
commercialized product in the U.S. market,” Vice Chairman Ron
MacDonald said in a Dec. 9 interview in Hong Kong. The
Vancouver-based company has also held talks with Prudent Energy
Corp. adding there hasn’t been any formal discussions.  Sumitomo and  United Technologies  both already have
capabilities in storage batteries. Vanadium, a mineral
traditionally used to strengthen steel, is also used for
rechargeable flow batteries that can store wind and solar
energy. The energy storage industry may grow to $35 billion by
2020, from $1.5 billion in 2010, according to a February report
by the U.S. Department of Energy.  “The idea of a battery industry in the U.S. is extremely
compelling,” MacDonald said. “We want to be American Vanadium
Battery instead of American Vanadium Mining.”  American Vanadium’s Gibellini deposit, which has a mine
life of 10 years, is scheduled to begin production in 2013 and
may need as much as $135 million of funding.  “By the time we start construction of mine, I’d like to
have at least a letter of intent, agreement in principle,” said
MacDonald. The company may raise money in mid-2012 by selling
shares and convertible debt, he said.  China  “will start securing, globally, lithium, vanadium
and phosphate deposits” to meet its energy targets by 2020,
said MacDonald. American Vanadium will focus on the U.S. market,
he said.  Reducing Energy  China is encouraging solar, wind, and biomass industries to
help meet its target of cutting energy use per unit of gross
domestic product by 16 percent by 2015. Vanadium flow batteries
can ensure that power generated from renewable energy sources is
stored and dispatched as needed, MacDonald said.  Vanadium, lithium, and phosphate are used to make
rechargeable batteries for electric vehicles, cell phones, and
laptops. Vanadium is also used to make titanium alloys, the
material needed to build aircraft and missiles.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 Myun9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Hong Kong at 
 Rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  