-- 
AMR Bankruptcy Creates Opening to Speed Flight Cuts at American Eagle Unit

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-12-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/amr-bankruptcy-creates-opening-to-speed-cutbacks-at-eagle-unit.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s bankruptcy filing may
open the door to reject leases on costly small jets and make
deeper cuts in flying at  American Airlines ’ American Eagle
regional unit.  “If you’re going to go into Chapter 11, you may as well
fix what’s broke,” said Jeff Kauffman, a Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc. analyst in  New York . “And what’s broken is the Eagle
product.”  Eagle ferries travelers to and from hub airports, providing
more 90 percent of the passenger feed to AMR’s American, the
third-largest U.S. carrier. Entering court protection ended
plans for a spinoff while giving  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR
latitude to reshape a business that was targeted for divestiture
as far back as 2007.  Shedding jets with 50 or fewer seats is among AMR’s likely
bankruptcy steps, Kauffman said in an interview. AMR also may
rework labor contracts and aircraft leases, and add planes with
70 or more seats at Eagle, a step resisted by American pilots
who want to keep those jobs at the higher-paying big airline.  “They know they have to get out from under Eagle and now a
Chapter 11 filing allows them to do it faster,” said  Michael Boyd , president of consultant Boyd Group International in
Evergreen,  Colorado . “They want the crazy aunt out of the
attic.”  AMR’s next date in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in New York is
tomorrow, when the company is scheduled to seek approval of
procedures for resolving certain supplier claims. American
declined to discuss any plans for Eagle.  Future Status  “The future status of the regional network is entirely a
function of AMR’s and American’s strategic decisions,” said  Tim Smith , an American spokesman. “Those outcomes won’t be known
for some time.”  That hasn’t stopped Eagle’s  Air Line Pilots Association 
chapter from warning members of shrinkage to come in a fleet
that numbered 299 planes as of Sept. 30. Management is
evaluating “all aircraft leases and financing arrangements,”
Eagle ALPA Chairman Tony Gutierrez said in a message to the
union last week.  AMR took Eagle off the block in 2008 after failing to find
a buyer, revived a study of the division’s future in 2010, and
decided this year on a spinoff. Until the bankruptcy, the plan
was for American to own the planes and lease them to Eagle while
keeping more than $2 billion of debt linked to the aircraft.
American would be able to seek cheaper regional partners, and
Eagle would be free to fly for other carriers.  Eagle’s Challenges  One of Eagle’s challenges is having 72 percent of its
planes with 50 or fewer seats -- a category whose costs have
soared after an almost-sixfold surge in jet-fuel prices in the
past decade.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  said in 2009 it would get rid
of almost three-fourths of its Comair unit’s 50-seaters.  “American is in the exact wrong position on fleet
composition,” said Tim Campbell, who ran regional operations at
Northwest Airlines Corp. before its 2008 acquisition by Delta
and is now president of Mountain Vista Consulting LLC in  St.
Paul ,  Minnesota . “Fifty seats and smaller is not the future.”  Delta and Northwest both restructured commuter operations
in court protection. Atlanta-based Delta’s pullback included
slashing departures at Cincinnati, a hub for regional flying, by
26 percent in 2005.  Northwest’s Chapter 11 filing the same year spurred one
partner,  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCL) , to take 11 percent of its
planes out of service and another, Mesaba Aviation, to enter
court protection. Northwest also created the Compass unit with
76-seat jets flown by pilots paid at regional-airline rates.  Changing Industry  Even without a bankruptcy, AMR’s Eagle would be confronting
a shifting regional-airline landscape marked by larger planes,
consolidation and demands by big carriers for lower-cost
service, Campbell said.  SkyWest Inc. (SKYW)  bought ExpressJet Holdings Inc. last year,
 Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)  is trying to figure out what to
do with its money-losing  Frontier Airlines , and Pinnacle hired
advisers last week to negotiate concessions from lessors,
creditors and unions.  “The world has changed, and AMR won’t be able to do
anything with Eagle if they don’t fix it now,” Campbell said.  Boyd said he expects Eagle to shrink to just 56 aircraft by
2016, shedding its  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  jets as the 37-, 44- and 50-
seaters amass more flight hours and expenses rise for repairs
and upkeep.  ‘Maintenance Pumpkins’  “At some point in time, they get rid of all the
Embraers,” he said. “As they get into 40,000 hours, they turn
into maintenance pumpkins. Economics are driving that airplane
out of the marketplace.”  AMR also may seek to boost the number of 70-seat jets at
Eagle and possibly add 90-seat planes by amending American’s
 Allied Pilots Association  contract. Eagle flies 47  Bombardier
Inc. ’s 70-seat CRJ700s, the most allowed by the APA accord. The
union wants to keep that flying and opposes changing the limit.  “American pretty much has to get that kind of relief,”
said George Hamlin, president of Hamlin Transportation
Consulting in Fairfax, Virginia. “Something flying in that
category at Eagle would match what their competitors are doing.
It’s almost a certainty Eagle won’t be the same size it is now,
either.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  