-- 
Angola’s Manuel Vicente to Run Sonangol for Three More Years

-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-12-12T21:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/angola-s-manuel-vicente-to-run-sonangol-for-three-more-years-1-.html
Angola ,  Africa ’s second-largest
crude producer, has appointed Manuel Vicente as chairman of the
state oil company Sonangol EP for three more years, according to
state-owned news agency Angop.  Angop cited a note from the cabinet of President Jose Eduardo  dos Santos . Calls to Mena Abrantes, a spokesman for the
cabinet, and Rosa Santos, a spokesman for Sonangol, weren’t
immediately returned.  Vicente had been mentioned as a possible successor to Dos
Santos, who has ruled the southwest African country since 1979.
Then Dos Santos, 69, said last month he would be “available”
to run in elections scheduled for the third quarter of 2012.  The president’s remark appeared to supersede comments made
Sept. 6 by Rui Falcao de Andrade, a spokesman for the ruling
 Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola , that Dos Santos
may step down and be replaced by Vicente. Andrade spoke in a
telephone interview from Luanda, the capital.  Vicente has run Sonangol since 1999, according to the
company website. Some members of the ruling party have said in
local newspapers that Vicente lacks the proper credentials to
succeed Dos Santos, such as being a longtime active member of
the party who fought against Portuguese colonialism.  Endiama Chairman  The cabinet also returned Antonio Carlos Sumbula as
chairman of Endiama EP, the state-owned diamond company, Angop
said. It didn’t state his term. Its executive directors are
Paulo M’vika, Osvaldo Van Dunem, Luis Quitamba and Fernando
Augusto Sebastiao.  Angola was the fourth-largest producer of diamonds by value
last year with $976 million, according to data from the
 Kimberley Process , an organization that works to prevent the
sale of  conflict diamonds .  The entire Sonangol board also returned, Angop said. They
are: Baptista Muhongo Sumbe, Sebastiao Pai Querido Gaspar
Martins, Mateus Morais de Brito, Anabela Soares de Brito
Fonseca, Fernando Joaquim Roberto and Francisco de Lemos Jose
Maria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Stubbe at 
 rstubbe1@bloomberg.net  