-- 
AOL Reorganization Will Merge Dial-Up Unit With Web Services

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-12-13T21:23:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/aol-will-combine-dial-up-with-web-services.html
AOL Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  plans to reorganize the company to combine its dial-up
Internet access business with its Web services, including AOL
Instant Messenger.  The new AOL services group would be one of four business
units to be created under the new structure, Armstrong said
yesterday in an interview. The details will be presented to
employees on Dec. 14, before the plan takes effect in January.
The other three divisions will consist of advertising, local
services and the Huffington Post media group, he said.  Armstrong, two years into an effort to revive the flagging
Web portal, aims to get consumers with AOL accounts to use more
of the company’s features. The newly combined dial-up and online
applications group will report to Chief Financial Officer Arthur Minson. That arrangement suggests that AOL wants to impose
fiscal discipline on the unit, said  Clayton Moran , an analyst at
Benchmark Co. in  Delray Beach ,  Florida .  “The finance guy is going to try to squeeze every dollar
out of the value of those businesses,” said Moran, who has a
“hold” rating on AOL’s stock. The reorganization also may make
it easier to spin off a division later, he said.  AOL has no plans to sell or spin off any part of its
business, Armstrong said. In the coming months, the New York-
based  company (AOL) ’s various offerings, including e-mail and videos,
will be more closely tied together and targeted to individual
users, he said.  Seeking Cohesion  “We had AOL services split up between multiple groups,”
Armstrong said. “We have decided that putting them into the
same structure, with the same cohesion, will help us with
everything from registration services all the way to the
experiences we offer in mail and the home page.”  AOL began planning the reorganization in September,
Armstrong said. AOL’s applications and commerce group, which had
been run by former Yahoo! Inc. executive Brad Garlinghouse, will
be part of the new services business. Garlinghouse stepped down
from the company last month.  Jon Brod, who co-founded the Patch news business, will head
the new local-services division, AOL said. In addition to Patch,
the  MapQuest  site will be part of that unit. Ned Brody will lead
the advertising division, while  Arianna Huffington  will serve as
head of the media group, the company said.  Getting Users Engaged  Web services such as AOL Mail already help the company keep
users on its site, said  David Joyce , an analyst at  Miller Tabak
& Co.  in New York.  “They add value as it keeps users engaged, keeps them on
the site longer, allows for greater search and display ad
monetization,” Joyce said.  AOL fell 1.1 percent to $13.85 at the close in New York. It
has fallen 42 percent this year.  The company’s market value has tumbled to $1.36 billion.
That may make AOL a candidate for a buyout by private-equity
investors, according to Ken Sena, an analyst at Evercore
Partners Inc. in  New York . In that scenario, the company would
be taken private.  Armstrong said earlier this month it “doesn’t matter”
whether AOL remains public or goes private. Continuing to
operate as an independent entity is the “first desired course
of action,” he said.  Minson, who joined AOL in 2009, received a $1.5 million
stock-option grant on Dec. 5 in connection with his growing role
at the company, AOL said last week in a regulatory filing.  Executive Vice President and General Counsel Julie Jacobs,
whose role also will grow under the reorganization, received a
salary increase to $600,000, according to the filing. Her
responsibilities include overseeing the corporate development
department, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  