-- 
Apple’s Smartphone Patent Fight With HTC Awaits Trade Rulings

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-12-12T23:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/apple-s-smartphone-patent-fight-with-htc-awaits-trade-rulings.html
A patent fight between  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and  HTC Corp. (2498)  over smartphone technology awaits decisions this
week from a U.S. trade agency that may lead to a ban on imports
of some HTC devices.  The International Trade Commission commission is scheduled
to announce tomorrow whether HTC infringed patents owned by
Apple. A decision in Apple’s favor may result in limits on
imports of some HTC phones that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system. On Dec. 16, the commission is scheduled to say
whether it will review a judge’s finding that cleared Apple of
claims it infringed some HTC patents.  Each company has accused the other of using its technology
without permission in a broader global fight over the smartphone
market pitting Apple against makers of Android phones.
Tomorrow’s decision,  postponed  from last week, would mark the
first definitive ruling from a judicial entity in Apple’s patent
war against HTC and fellow Android-phone makers  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.   “From a consumer perspective, you want choice and the
consequence of this ITC mechanism is that it appears if it does
find against Android, it could limit your choice,” Google
Chairman  Eric Schmidt , whose company isn’t named in the case,
said yesterday to reporters in Washington. Google contended in a
filing that Apple is trying to control the U.S. smartphone
market through litigation.  A ruling for Apple may derail Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC’s
trajectory from a small contract manufacturer founded in 1997 to
the biggest U.S. smartphone seller in the third quarter. A
victory for HTC may help it secure favorable terms in any
settlement with Apple.  Disputed Patents  HTC generated about $5 billion in U.S. sales last year,
according to a separate patent complaint it filed at the trade
agency against Cupertino, California-based Apple. That’s more
than half of HTC’s $9.1 billion (NT$275 billion) in global 2010
sales. HTC sold 24 percent of the smartphones in the U.S. in the
third quarter, ahead of Samsung’s 21 percent and Apple’s 20
percent, researcher Canalys  reported  Oct. 31.  Apple contends that HTC’s Android phones infringe four
Apple patents, including one for a system to detect telephone
numbers in e-mails so they can be stored in directories or
called without dialing the numbers. The commission is reviewing
an agency judge’s findings that HTC infringed that patent and
one covering the transmission of multiple types of data, along
with two other Apple patents that the judge said weren’t
infringed.  HTC’s Claims  HTC has accused Apple of infringing four of its patents,
including ones for a way to control how a phone switches between
different modes of operation to manage the device’s power supply
and a method for protecting data if a phone doesn’t have enough
power.  The commission is an independent, quasi-judicial agency set
up to protect U.S. markets from unfair trade practices. It has
the power to block imports of products found to infringe
intellectual property rights.  Apple’s case against is In the Matter of Certain Personal
Data and Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software,
337-710; and HTC’s case against Apple is In the Matter of
Portable Electronic Devices with Communication Capabilities,
337-721, both U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  