-- 
Harbinger Capital, Day Traders, MF Global, Cement, T-Mobile: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-12-12T13:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/harbinger-capital-day-traders-mf-global-cement-compliance.html
Billionaire Philip Falcone’ s (S)  hedge
fund, Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, was told it may be sued by
federal regulators for securities-law violations and said it
plans to halt investor withdrawals at year-end.  Falcone, 49, and other Harbinger employees, including Omar
Asali and Robin Roger, the general counsel, also received Wells
Notices from the staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, Harbinger said in a filing Dec. 9.  A lawsuit would add to the woes of Falcone as assets at his
$5.7 billion hedge fund have slumped from a peak of $26 billion
three years ago and a wireless technology venture he’s backing
faces regulatory and political hurdles. Harbinger is being
investigated by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s office over a
$113 million loan Falcone took from one of his funds to pay
personal taxes, according to a July  filing. (HRG)   The SEC’s notices relate to alleged “violations of the
federal securities laws’ anti-fraud provisions in connection
with matters previously disclosed and an additional matter
regarding the circumstances and disclosure related to agreements
with certain fund investors,” the New York-based hedge fund
said.  Harbinger told clients in April that the government was
also looking into whether it had engaged in market manipulation
in its trading of the debt securities of an undisclosed firm
from 2006 and 2008.  “Harbinger and its affiliates are disappointed that the
staff issued Wells Notices,” the firm said in Friday’s filing.
“If the SEC decides to bring an enforcement action,” they
“intend to vigorously defend against it.”  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in  Washington ,
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Ex-Day Trader Bouchareb Gets 30 Months in Insider Case  Former day trader Jamil Bouchareb was sentenced to 30
months in prison for trading on stock tips gleaned from the wife
of a former  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  salesman.  Bouchareb’s partner, Daniel Corbin, was sentenced to six
months immediately after U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero 
imposed Bouchareb’s sentence Dec. 9 in federal court in
Manhattan.  Bouchareb and Corbin were indicted in December 2008.
Bouchareb pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud in
May 2009, agreeing to forfeit $1.58 million.  “I made a stupid mistake,” Bouchareb told Marrero at
Friday’s hearing. “If you could allow me a second chance, I’d
appreciate it.”  “I truly am sorry for everything that has happened here,”
Corbin said before he was sentenced.  The Lehman salesman, Matthew Devlin, admitted to his role
in the scheme in December 2008 and agreed to cooperate with
prosecutors, according to a court document. He is scheduled to
be sentenced March 2, the U.S. Attorney’s Office said. His wife
was not charged with wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Bouchareb, 08-mj-2777, U.S. District
Judge, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Zvi Goffer in Settlement of SEC Insider Trading Claims  Zvi Goffer was ordered to pay $325,273.89 as part of a
settlement of a suit over claims of insider trading by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to a statement on
the agency’s website.  Goffer was previously found guilty in a criminal case,
according to the statement.  Brian Kim Offered 6- to 18-Year Term in Alleged Ponzi Scheme  Brian Kim, a former hedge-fund manager accused of running a
$6 million Ponzi scheme, was offered six to 18 years in prison
by prosecutors in exchange for a guilty plea to grand larceny
and related charges.  Kim was taken into custody this year by authorities in Hong
Kong, where he had fled before a U.S. trial scheduled to begin
in January on charges that he stole $430,000 from a Manhattan
condominium complex where he lived.  He was indicted again in February and charged with running
a Ponzi scheme at his firm, Liquid Capital Management LLC, from
January 2003 to January 2011. He returned to the U.S. in October
and pleaded not guilty to grand larceny and bail jumping.  Kim hasn’t decided whether to accept the Manhattan district
attorney’s offer, which would resolve all three of the state
cases against him, his lawyer, Justin Levine, said Friday after
a hearing before Justice Charles Solomon of the New York State
Supreme Court Judge. His client may face as long as 45 years in
prison if convicted of all the charges, Levine said.  The state case is People v. Kim, 2011/86, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan). The CFTC suit is
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Kim, 11-cv-01013,
and the federal criminal case is U.S. v. Kim, 11-cr-00642, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  For more, click here.  RBS Examined for Overstating Cash Held Before Crisis, FSA Says  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  was investigated by the
Financial Services Authority before its bailout after wrongly
telling regulators it held more cash to cover client withdrawals
than the required minimum.  RBS overstated its Sterling Stock Liquidity Ratio, a
measure of a bank’s ability to withstand customer withdrawals
without access to wholesale funding, between March 2006 and July
2007, the FSA said in a  report  today into the bank’s near
collapse. RBS’s ratio averaged 69 percent, below the 100 percent
minimum, the FSA said.  RBS told the FSA and the Bank of England on July 9, 2007,
that it had incorrectly reported non-sterling assets as sterling
holdings and that it “did not impact RBS’s overall liquidity,”
the FSA said. The regulator accepted RBS’s assurances it would
fix the underlying reasons for the misreporting.  RBS was bailed out in 2008 following its takeover of ABN
Amro Holding NV, and needed a 45.5 billion-pound ($70.8 billion)
capital injection from taxpayers. The bank went on to report a
24.1 billion-pound loss for 2008, the largest in U.K. corporate
history. The FSA provided a flawed supervisory approach that
failed to adequately challenge the judgments and risk
assessments of the RBS management, the report said.  A spokesman for Edinburgh-based RBS declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Merkel Adviser Franz Says Summit Deal a Step in Right Direction  Wolfgang Franz , who heads German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
council of economic advisers, said last week’s summit to forge
closer fiscal ties in  Europe  is a “step in the right
direction” and the effort will help ease tension on financial
markets.  “Basically the principles are right but the details are
missing,” Franz said in an interview on Bloomberg Television
today. “A significant step has been made in the right
direction.”  “I am convinced the specialists on this area will work out
details that will convince financial markets and they will get
at least less nervous,” he said.  Separately, European Union Economic and Monetary
Commissioner Olli Rehn said he will “fully use” new powers to
crack down on excessive budget deficits.  Rules taking effect tomorrow will “radically change the
economic and fiscal surveillance of all 27 member states,” Rehn
told reporters in Brussels today. “I’m determined to fully use
this powerful set of tools from day one.”  For more, click here.  Court Blocks EPA Cement Plant Rules on Concrete Ingredient  Environmental Protection Agency rules controlling cement
plants’ storage of a substance used in making concrete were
temporarily blocked by a federal appeals court.  The Portland Cement Association, an industry trade group,
in October argued before the Washington court that new emissions
standards are arbitrary and that their adoption violates the
federal Clean Air Act.  A three-judge panel on Dec. 9 agreed in part, issuing an
order blocking rules governing the storage of a cement
ingredient known as “clinker” pending further EPA review.
While the agency previously conceded it hadn’t given enough
notice of the new standards, it refused to delay enforcement,
the court said. Other rules were left in place by the judges.  “Because EPA will now be receiving comments for the first
time, the standards could likely change substantially,” the
panel said. “Thus, industry should not have to build expensive
new containment structures until the standard is finally
determined.”  The rules, intended to reduce mercury emissions and other
cement plant-generated air pollutants, are to be enforced
starting in 2013. Industry advocates claim compliance with the
regulations may cost $3.4 billion and result in the closure of
some facilities.  The EPA has said the cost wouldn’t exceed $950 million.  In its ruling, the appellate panel rejected the industry
association’s contention that the EPA failed to consider the
effect of its standards on older cement kilns, calling it an
“eminently reasonable decision based on the facts the EPA had
before it,” which show that older kilns are already being
replaced.  Carter Phillips , the attorney who argued the case for the
Portland Cement Association, didn’t immediately respond to a
telephone message seeking comment on the court’s order. Wyn
Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the Justice Department, also didn’t
immediately reply to a phone message seeking comment.  The case is Portland Cement Association v. Environmental
Protection Agency, 10-1358 and 10-1359, U.S. Court of Appeals,
District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  In the Courts  AT&T Judge Will Weigh Shutting Down T-Mobile Antitrust Trial  The judge in a lawsuit to block AT&T Inc.’s purchase of  T-
Mobile USA (DTE)  Inc. said she will consider a U.S. request to
postpone or dismiss the case, saying the “landscape” changed
when AT&T withdrew its bid for regulatory approval of the $39
billion deal.  U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle in Washington on
Friday scheduled a hearing for Dec. 15 to weigh arguments by the
government that AT&T’s decision to withdraw its merger
application with the Federal Communications Commission means
that closing the deal is no longer possible and the lawsuit is
moot.  “We don’t have any confidence that we are spending all
this time and effort and the taxpayers money and that we’re not
being spun,” Huvelle said. “The landscape has changed,” she
said, pressing AT&T’s lawyers on whether getting the deal done
by the contractual deadline of Sept. 12 is still realistic.  AT&T’s lawyer,  Mark Hansen , told Huvelle that the company
“wants its day in court.” The only way to get the deal done is
to go back to the FCC with a court victory that finds the merger
is not anticompetitive, Hansen said.  “Then we’ll have a fair chance before the FCC,” he said.  Justice Department lawyer  Joseph Wayland  said the
government will seek to “withdraw without prejudice” or “to
stay” the federal lawsuit because AT&T withdrew its FCC merger
application. FCC approval is required to complete the
transaction, he said.  AT&T appeared in court Friday for the first time since it
pulled the FCC application. The company abandoned the FCC bid
after the agency signaled it might try to block the merger. AT&T
said it planned to focus on winning clearance from the Justice
Department first or revising its proposal.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and  Deutsche
Telekom AG ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a combination of
the two companies would “substantially” reduce competition.
Seven states and Puerto Rico joined the effort to block the
deal, which would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless carrier.  Sprint, the third-biggest U.S. wireless carrier, filed its
antitrust lawsuit on Sept. 6, saying the proposed merger would
weaken its ability to compete with AT&T, the second-biggest, and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the market leader.  Cellular South, based in Ridgeland, Mississippi, sued on
Sept. 19, claiming the merger threatened to “substantially”
cut competition.  The government’s case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 1:11-cv-01560;
Sprint’s case is Sprint Nextel Corp. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01600;
and Cellular South’s case is Cellular South Inc. v. AT&T Inc.,
1:11-cv-01690, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  HSBC Sues MF Global Brokerage Over $850,000 Worth of Gold  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  sued the MF Global Inc. brokerage trustee
to establish whether he or another person is the rightful owner
of gold bars worth about $850,000 and silver bars underlying
contracts between the brokerage and a client.  Five gold bars and 15 silver bars underlie eight Comex
contracts between the brokerage and its client Jason Fane of
Ithaca, New York, London-based HSBC said in a court filing Dec.
8. Both parties have asserted claims to the bars, creating
difficulties for HSBC, which is storing them, the bank said.
HSBC asked a judge to decide who the rightful owner is.  “HSBC has received conflicting instructions regarding
ownership and disposition of the property,” it said.
“Accordingly, HSBC is exposed to multiple liabilities with
respect to the disposition of the properties.”  Bullion is selling for about $1,717 an ounce on the Comex
in New York, up about 21 percent this year, as investors bought
the metal to protect their wealth from Europe’s escalating debt
crisis, and reached a record $1,923.70 in September. Treasuries
returned 9.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  “These bars are mine,” Fane said in an e-mail Friday.
“We had a letter from HSBC that they were on the loading dock
to be shipped to our warehouse contractor when there was some
action taken by a third party to stop or delay shipment.”  The trustee, James Giddens, expects this “relatively minor
and not unusual dispute” to be successfully resolved, his
spokesman, Kent Jarrell, said in an e-mail.  Fane wrote HSBC after the bankruptcy, asking the bank to
transfer the bars to his account at Brink’s, according to a copy
of his letter filed in court. The trustee wrote HSBC saying the
gold and silver was “customer property,” and the bank
shouldn’t turn it over to Fane, HSBC said in the filing. Brink’s
provides vaults and other services for the safekeeping of
valuables.  The judge handling the bankruptcy said Friday that in
January he would address the matter of distributing physical
goods, such as gold and silver bars, after lawyers for some
customers said they couldn’t get their share of the payouts
because bars can’t be broken into pieces.  According to Fane’s letter, the five Comex gold contracts
are for an average of 99 ounces of each.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Sabre Seeks to Pursue Antitrust Claims Against American  Sabre Holdings Corp.  asked a judge to modify the so-called
automatic stay in American Airlines’ bankruptcy so it can pursue
counterclaims against the carrier in an antitrust dispute.  Sabre said in its filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New
York that  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American doesn’t oppose the request.  American sued Travelport Ltd. and  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW) ,
the operators of electronic reservations systems, in April
accusing them of monopolizing the distribution of fare and
flight data to travel agents. Sabre, the largest U.S.-based
global fare data distribution system, was added as a defendant
in June.  Trials had already been scheduled by the state and federal
courts for next year in the antitrust lawsuits when American
filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy last month. Sabre, based in
Southlake, Texas, filed antitrust counterclaims before the
bankruptcy.  Although American is permitted under bankruptcy law to
continue pursuing its affirmative claims, the automatic stay
precludes Sabre from going ahead with its counterclaims.  AMR, based in Fort Worth, Texas, filed for Chapter 11
reorganization on Nov. 29, listing assets of $24.7 billion and
debt totaling $29.6 billion.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 