-- 
Martin Marietta May Need to Raise $4.8 Billion Bid as Vulcan Shares Climb

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-12-12T22:18:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/martin-marietta-seeks-to-buy-vulcan-materials-in-4-7-billion-hostile-bid.html
Martin Marietta Materials Inc.  may
need to sweeten its hostile $4.8 billion bid for Vulcan
Materials Co. after the company’s shares topped the offering
price to create the world’s largest supplier of sand, gravel and
stone.  Vulcan rose 15 percent to $38.70 at the close in  New York ,
3.7 percent more than Martin Marietta’s proposed exchange of 0.5
share of its own stock for each Vulcan share. Martin Marietta,
based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , rose 1.7 percent to $74.61.  “The valuation is probably going to have to be adjusted
before everything is said and done to put it together,” said
Keith Johnson, an analyst with Morgan Keegan & Co. in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , who has a “market perform” rating on Vulcan and an
“outperform” on Martin Marietta.  The hostile offer follows losses for Birmingham, Alabama-
based Vulcan, the largest U.S. producer of crushed stone, in
three of the last four quarters amid a U.S. construction
recession. Vulcan, saddled with debt following its $4.2 billion
acquisition of Florida Rock Industries in 2007, had its senior
unsecured debt rating reduced to Ba2 by Moody’s Investor Service
Inc. in September, two levels below investment grade. The
company cut its  quarterly dividend (VMC)  to 1 cent a share in November
from 25 cents.  Martin Marietta Chief Executive Officer Ward Nye said his
company made the unsolicited offer after Vulcan broke off talks
for a merger earlier this year. The bid had a 9.4 percent
premium as of Dec. 9 and valued Vulcan at $4.7 billion. The two
companies together would be more profitable through cost cuts
and more financially sound, Nye said in a telephone interview.  ‘Financial Sense’  “Bringing together these complementary businesses simply
makes good strategic and financial sense,” Nye said. “We will
create the must-own stock in the sector.”  The bid is a 15 percent premium to the average exchange
ratio based on the closing share prices for Vulcan and Martin
Marietta for the 10 days ended Dec. 9, according to Raleigh,
North Carolina-based Martin Marietta.  That compares with an average premium of 5.3 percent paid
for cement makers worldwide in the past three years, after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the global
financial crisis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Data compiled by Bloomberg shows about 30 percent of
hostile or unsolicited bids for U.S. companies disclosed from
2000 to 2010 were eventually completed.  ‘Independent Nominees’  Martin Marietta sued Vulcan in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington today asking a judge to declare that a May 3, 2010
non-disclosure agreement between the two “does not prohibit
Martin Marietta’s public offer to purchase all issued and
outstanding shares of Vulcan’s common stock in exchange for
Martin Marietta’s stock.”  The suit also seeks a ruling that allows Vulcan
stockholders “to vote for the election of Martin Marietta’s
five independent nominees” to Vulcan’s board.  Martin Marietta would bring better finances and cost
discipline to Vulcan’s “chronically high” spending, said
Robert Wetenhall, an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in New
York. Vulcan has the “best portfolio of aggregate reserves in
 North America ,” he said.  “Under the guidance of Martin, they can realize sizable
savings that can justify the premium,” Wetenhall said. “It’s a
really good deal for Martin if it goes through.”  Superior Stone  Martin Marietta traces its roots to Raleigh, North
Carolina-based aggregates supplier Superior Stone. A 1961 merger
with aerospace company Glenn L. Martin Co. created Martin
Marietta Corp., which in turn combined with Lockheed Corp. in
1995 to form defense contractor  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  Lockheed
split off Martin Marietta the following year.  Martin Marietta sees cost savings of as much as $250
million with the merger and would keep the annual dividend at
the equivalent of $1.60 per Martin Marietta share, the company
said. That payment would be 20 times greater than Vulcan’s
current dividend, Martin Marietta said.  The combined companies would have market value of $7.7
billion and $3.7 billion of debt, according to Martin Marietta.
The two companies together would have 15 percent of the U.S.
aggregates market compared with 6 percent for its next
competitor, Ireland’s CRH Plc. Aggregate annual shipments by ton
would be 278 million tons, overtaking HeidelbergCement AG, which
has 264 million tons, as the world leader.  With the cost savings, earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization -- a measure of  cash flow  known as
Ebitda -- could jump 30 percent for the combined companies,
Wetenhall said.  Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are advising
Martin Marietta, and Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flomm LLP is
legal counsel.  Goldman Sachs & Co. (GS)  is Vulcan’s financial adviser
and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is providing legal advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in  Dallas  at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  