-- 
Harvard Football Coach Restic, Who Won Five Ivy League Titles, Dies at 85

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-12-12T18:28:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/harvard-football-coach-restic-won-five-ivy-league-titles-dies-at-age-85.html
Joe Restic, who coached  Harvard
University  to five Ivy League football championships, has died.
He was 85.  Restic, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based school’s
longest-tenured football coach, died on Dec. 8 at Brigham &
Women’s Hospital in  Boston , Harvard said on its athletics
website today. A cause of death wasn’t given.  Restic led the Crimson to a 117-97-6 record, coaching from
1971 to 1993. His victory total was a school record until
current coach Tim Murphy surpassed it this year.  Restic is credited with creating the multiflex offense,
which utilized complex routes, blocking techniques and last-
second changes in formation to keep opposing defenses on edge.  “The defense doesn’t make any difference. We control it,”
he said in a 1980 interview with the Harvard Crimson, the
school’s student newspaper. “It’s a guessing game with the
defense. It’s not a guessing game with us. We always have the
advantage.”  A native of Hastings,  Pennsylvania , Restic graduated from
Villanova University in 1952 and earned his master’s degree from
Seton Hall University in 1962. He played baseball in the
 Philadelphia Phillies ’ organization and was a wide receiver and
defensive back for the Philadelphia Eagles of the  National
Football League  from 1952 to 1953, according to the website.  Restic served in the U.S. Army and  Air Force  during World
War II in a counterintelligence unit. He was awarded the Army
Occupation Medal, the American Theater Ribbon and the WWII
victory Ribbon for his service.  Restic also coached at Brown and Colgate Universities, and
in the Canadian Football League with the Hamilton Tiger-Cats.  He is survived by his sister, four children and eight
grandchildren, according to the website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  