-- 
Asian Currencies Strengthen on European Debt Progress, U.S. Confidence

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-12-12T10:02:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/asian-currencies-strengthen-on-european-debt-progress-u-s-confidence.html
India ’s rupee led declines among
Asian currencies as data showed manufacturing in Asia’s third-
largest economy contracted more than economists forecast, adding
to concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is slowing growth.  Factory output shrank 5.1 percent in October, compared with
the median estimate for a 0.7 percent decline, according to a
Bloomberg survey. It was the first contraction since June 2009.
The  Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index  dropped after last
week’s European summit resulted in an agreement that tightens
budget rules and provides an extra 200 billion euros ($265
billion) of financial aid for euro-area nations.  “The market expectation was for a much swifter solution
than what was discussed at last week’s European summit,” said
Andy Ji, a Singapore-based currency strategist at  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia . “There’s a linkage between the financial
markets and the real economy, and Asia is not doing well.”  The rupee slid 1 percent to 52.5762 per dollar as of 3:01
p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Malaysia’s ringgit weakened 0.3 percent to 3.1600 and Vietnam’s
dong dropped 0.5 percent to 21,105.  Moody’s Investors Service said today that the European
Union summit last week offered few new measures and doesn’t
diminish the risk of credit-rating revisions.  Fitch Ratings  is poised to cut growth estimates for Asian
nations as Europe’s debt crisis weighs on the outlook for the
world economy. Quarterly predictions due to be released by the
company “shortly” will see growth downgraded for Asian
countries,  Andrew Colquhoun , the company’s Hong Kong-based head
of Asia-Pacific Sovereigns, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today.  Possible Rate Cut  The rupee dropped by the most since Nov. 21 and touched the
lowest level in almost three weeks.  “The data is only a reflection of the problems in the
economy,” said Vikas Babu, a currency trader at state-run
Andhra Bank in Mumbai. “We have to see how this plays out, as
it might compel the  Reserve Bank  of India to cut rates going
ahead, which would boost capital inflows.”  The yuan gained as a report in the Financial News, citing
Xuan Changneng, head of the People’s Bank of  China ’s financial
stability bureau, said policy makers will maintain flexibility
based on China’s situation while pushing forward with interest-
rate and exchange-rate reform. The central bank raised its daily
 fixing  0.09 percent to 6.3297 per dollar, the strongest level
since Nov. 9.  Overseas sales  rose 13.8 percent in November from
a year earlier, the smallest gain since 2009, official data show.  Stronger Yuan Fixing  “The PBOC’s comment quelled investors’ depreciation
expectations after the weaker export growth,” said Kenix Lai, a
Hong Kong-based currency analyst at Bank of East  Asia  Ltd. “The
stronger fixing also shows that China will still allow gains in
the currency, even though the pace may slow.”  The yuan advanced 0.06 percent to close at 6.3606 per
dollar in  Shanghai , the biggest advance since Dec. 2, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency is
allowed to fluctuate as much as 0.5 percent on either side of
the PBOC’s fixing.  Elsewhere,  Indonesia ’s rupiah strengthened 0.3 percent to
9,051 per dollar, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. The Taiwan dollar and  South Korea ’s won were
little changed at NT$30.230 and 1,146.95, respectively.
Financial markets in Thailand were closed today for a public
holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  