-- 
AT&T Cupcakes Make the Rounds in Washington After ‘Cupcakegate’

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-12-12T23:21:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/at-t-cupcakes-make-the-rounds-in-washington-after-cupcakegate-.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  said it distributed
cupcakes to friends and colleagues in  Washington  and defended
sending the treats to U.S. regulators at the Federal
Communications Commission.  AT&T’s holiday tradition of distributing sweets drew
attention last year after  Public Knowledge , a Washington-based
policy group,  obtained  a distribution list for 1,530 cupcakes,
with recipients including members of the FCC.  “This friendly gesture was described as some form of a
devious plot to ‘buy’ off the commission on issues of importance
to AT&T,” and was dubbed “Cupcakegate,” Bob Quinn, senior
vice president-federal regulatory and chief privacy officer for
the company, said in a  blog posting  today.  “There was some pressure to stop the tradition this year
because of last year’s silly criticisms (don’t worry, you all
will be getting cupcakes again this time around too),” Quinn
wrote. He didn’t say how many cupcakes were delivered this year
in what the posting called “a token of holiday cheer” for
“friends and colleagues with whom we work in the communications
space.”  The FCC last month moved to block AT&T’s proposed $39
billion purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. The  Justice Department 
earlier sued to block the deal that would eliminate the fourth-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, calling the transaction
anticompetitive. A federal judge put the antitrust case on hold
today, and Dallas-based AT&T has until Jan. 12 to file a report
with the court saying whether it still intends to try to acquire
T-Mobile.  A dozen cupcakes bearing AT&T’s logo were delivered to
Bloomberg’s Washington bureau, and were distributed to building
staff not involved in the production or distribution of news.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  