-- 
Aussie Weakens as Trade Surplus Narrows Amid Europe Crisis; Kiwi Declines

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-12-12T01:12:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/aussie-weakens-as-trade-surplus-narrows-amid-europe-crisis-kiwi-declines.html
The Australian dollar declined after
a report showed the nation’s trade surplus narrowed by more than
economists estimated, adding to signs  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis is weighing on global growth.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars rose last week after
European leaders agreed to tighter budget rules and increase
funds for a war chest to help defuse the region’s debt woes.
Losses in the so-called Aussie and kiwi dollars were limited as
Asian stocks extended a global rally.  “The European crisis is a downer on the Aussie economy,”
said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at Westpac Banking
Corp.,  Australia ’s second-largest lender. “We had a very strong
rally in both of those currencies since Friday evening and they
are taking a rest.”  The Australian dollar fell 0.4 percent to $1.0174 as of
12:09 p.m. in Sydney from Dec. 9, when it rose 0.5 percent. The
Aussie dropped 0.4 percent to 79.01 yen.  New Zealand ’s currency declined 0.3 percent to 77.29 U.S.
cents. It slid 0.3 percent to 60.01 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks rose 1 percent. The
MSCI World Index of stocks on Dec. 9 tumbled as much as 0.6
percent to the lowest level since Nov. 30, before rebounding to
gain 1.1 percent on the day.  Trade Surplus Narrows  Australia’s trade surplus narrowed to A$1.60 billion ($
1.63 billion) in October from a revised A$2.25 billion in
September, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for a surplus of
A$2 billion.  Australian home-loan approvals rose 0.7 percent in October
from a month earlier, when it grew a revised 1.9 percent, a
separate report showed today. Economists in a Bloomberg News
poll expected approvals to stagnate.  European Union leaders meeting in Brussels last week agreed
to channel as much as 200 billion euros ($267 billion) to the
 International Monetary Fund  and bowed to European Central Bank
demands for a tightening of anti-deficit rules.  “I think you’ll get a good little rally in Asian stock
markets today,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director of
currency sales in Sydney at Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s
biggest brokerage. “The dips in both the Aussie and kiwi should
be bought.”  -- Editors: Rocky Swift, Benjamin Purvis  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  