-- 
Australian Home Loans Gain Seventh Straight Month Ahead of RBA’s Rate Cuts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-12-12T00:54:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/australin-home-loans-gain-seventh-straight-month-ahead-of-rba-s-rate-cuts.html
Australian  home-loan approvals  rose
in October for a seventh straight month before central bank
Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered borrowing costs for the first
time in 31 months.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 0.7 percent from September, when they advanced
a revised 1.9 percent, the statistics bureau said in Sydney
today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 17
economists was for approvals to be unchanged.  Home-loan growth may accelerate after Stevens cut  interest
rates  last week for the second time in as many months,
reflecting reduced inflation pressure and “subdued” credit
growth. Buyers are also entering the market in New South Wales,
the nation’s most populous state, before the government there
ends tax breaks Dec. 31 on purchases of existing homes.  “Housing finance is being boosted by NSW first-time
homebuyers wanting to purchase property before the stamp duty
exemption ends,” Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s Analytics
in Sydney, said before the report. “The rate cuts will boost
housing finance into 2012.”  Today’s report showed the total value of loans fell 2.5
percent to A$20.5 billion ($20.9 billion) in October.  Investment Loans  The value of lending to owner-occupiers declined 1.2
percent, the report showed. The value of loans to investors who
plan to rent or resell homes dropped 5.5 percent.  First-home buyers accounted for 17.9 percent of dwellings
that were financed in October, up from 16.4 percent in September
and higher than 15.4 percent a year earlier, the report showed
today.  The nation’s four biggest banks --  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) ,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  -- reduced home-
loan rates for customers after both Reserve Bank moves.  Stevens lowered the overnight cash rate target to 4.25
percent from 4.5 percent on Dec. 6, citing “considerable
turbulence” in financial markets and an increased chance of a
“further material slowing in global growth.”  Traders are betting Stevens will lower borrowing costs
again at the central bank’s next meeting in February, interbank
cash-rate futures showed before today’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  