-- 
Australia Targets Government Bond Sales to Individuals to Spark Interest

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-12-12T23:50:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/australia-targets-government-bond-sales-to-individuals-to-spark-interest.html
The Australian government plans to
make it easier for individual investors to trade the nation’s
sovereign debt by the end of next year as part of efforts to
develop its corporate  bond market .  The government is in talks with market operators to set up
a platform for the trading, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an e-
mailed statement.  Helping individual investors buy and sell sovereign bonds
will provide a pricing benchmark for corporate sales and spur
more interest in debt markets, Swan said before a meeting today
with investors, bond issuers and regulators. “I am hopeful
that, with favorable market conditions, trading will commence by
the end of 2012,” he said.  Australia’s government securities returned 13.7 percent
this year, trailing only the U.K. among developed markets, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis spurs investors to seek assets in a nation
that holds AAA ratings from all three main assessors,
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes show. The nation’s corporate bond market
remains an area of “relative weakness” as its development lags
behind Europe, the U.S. and  New Zealand , leaving companies
reliant on offshore bond sales or bank loans and vulnerable in a
credit crunch, according to a government discussion paper
released today.  The  government  will let multiple operators set up sovereign
bond-trading platforms, Swan said in a separate statement.  The Australian Securities & Investments Commission changed
prospectus rules for so-called vanilla bond sales targeted at
individual investors in May last year, as part of a push to
develop debt markets. Only one issuer has taken advantage of the
changes to sell notes, according to the discussion paper.  Syndicated Loans  Syndicated loans provided by banks to Australian and New
Zealand companies total A$116.1 billion ($116.9 billion) this
year, up 66 percent from the same period in 2010 and the most
since 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Non-
financial corporate bond sales in  Australia  in 2011 total A$8.1
billion, the data show.  The government is seeking feedback on how to make it more
attractive for companies to sell bonds locally, with proposals
including reducing disclosure rules and reviewing some director
liability requirements, Swan said.  Still, the changes aren’t likely to spur a rash of sales,
as “commercial realities” deter both issuers and investors, he
said.  “Issuers seem to be able to get access to cheaper funds
from other sources, particularly our banks,” Swan said.
“Investors do not seem attracted by the pricing of bonds,
relative to returns they get on other investment classes,
particularly equity. I am not sure how this commercial gap can
be bridged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  