-- 
Australia Trade Surplus Narrows as Coal Exports Fall

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-12-12T02:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/australia-trade-surplus-narrows-as-coal-exports-fall.html
Australia ’s  trade surplus  was the
narrowest in seven months in October and mortgage lending growth
weakened before central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered
borrowing costs for the first time in 31 months.  Exports outpaced imports by A$1.6 billion ($1.63 billion),
from a revised A$2.25 billion surplus in September, a Bureau of
Statistics report in Sydney today showed, the weakest since
March when shipments were hurt by floods. Separate data showed
loans made to build or buy houses and apartments gained 0.7
percent from September, when they rose a revised 1.9 percent.  Australia’s trade surplus may narrow further as the price
of iron ore, the nation’s biggest export, declines and global
growth slows in response to  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis. The
 Reserve Bank  of Australia last week made its first back-to-back
interest-rate cuts since 2009 as weaker commodity prices ease
inflation pressure.  “Softer commodity prices are flowing through to lower
export receipts, and there’s an underlying softness in the
market for housing,” said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney. “The two rate cuts are partially justified
by the housing data and we should start to see an improvement
because of lower rates.”  Currency Reaction  The local currency was little changed after the data,
trading at $1.0186 at 12:59 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0192 before
the reports.  The trade report showed exports were little changed in
October at A$27.3 billion, as a 7 percent gain in mineral fuels
offset a 2 percent drop in coal, coke and briquettes, and a 6
percent fall in metals. Imports advanced 2 percent to A$25.7
billion on a 57 percent increase in non-monetary gold and an 11
percent gain in fuels and lubricants, the report showed.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 20
economists was for a trade surplus of A$2 billion.  Stevens lowered the overnight cash rate target to 4.25
percent from 4.5 percent on Dec. 6, citing “considerable
turbulence” in financial markets and an increased chance of a
“further material slowing in global growth.”  Traders are betting Stevens will lower borrowing costs
again at the central bank’s next meeting in February, interbank
cash-rate futures showed before today’s report.  Value of Loans  Today’s lending report showed the total value of loans fell
2.5 percent to A$20.5 billion in October.  The value of lending to owner-occupiers declined 1.2
percent, the report showed. The value of loans to investors who
plan to rent or resell homes dropped 5.5 percent.  Buyers are entering the market in New South Wales, the
nation’s most populous state, before the government there ends
tax breaks Dec. 31 on purchases of existing homes.  First-home buyers accounted for 17.9 percent of dwellings
financed in Australia in October, up from 16.4 percent in
September and higher than 15.4 percent a year earlier, today
report showed.  The nation’s four biggest banks --  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) ,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  -- reduced home-
loan rates for customers after both Reserve Bank moves.  China  is Australia’s biggest trading partner and its demand
for iron ore, coal and energy has driven the nation’s terms of
trade, or export prices relative to import prices, to a record.  Separate recent reports showed manufacturing slumped in
China and the euro region to the weakest levels in more than two
years. A Nov. 30 government report showed  India ’s economy grew
6.9 percent in the three months through September, the weakest
expansion since the second quarter of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  