-- 
Tax Credit End May Slice Wind-Industry Jobs by Half, Study Shows

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-12-12T18:59:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/tax-credit-end-may-slice-wind-industry-jobs-by-half-study-shows.html
Half the jobs in the U.S. wind-power
industry, or about 37,000 positions, may be lost unless Congress
extends a tax credit set to expire at the end of 2012, according
to a study released by a trade group.  The analysis, by Chicago-based Navigant Consulting Inc.,
was released by the American Wind Energy Association today as it
lobbies to save a 2.2-cent per kilowatt-hour credit that
advocates say helps wind operators compete with natural-gas
producers for new electricity production.  While the credit doesn’t end until Dec. 31, 2012, Congress
should act soon to give investors greater certainty in backing
projects,  Denise Bode , chief executive officer of the
Washington-based wind group, told reporters today. A four-year
extension could add 17,000 U.S. jobs, according to the study.  Uncertainty about the credit’s status is “stifling any
potential for growth,” said Bode, whose group includes
Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens
AG (SIE) , based in Munich.  The study predicts about 2 gigawatts of wind power will be
installed in 2013 without the credit, compared with about 8
gigawatts of power projected with it in 2012. A gigawatt powers
about 300,000 homes.  Total wind investment will drop by almost two-thirds, to
$5.5 billion in 2013 from $15.6 billion in 2012, according to
the study.  Congress hasn’t signaled plans to extend the credit as
leaders negotiate deals on a payroll tax-cut extension and
spending bills before aiming to adjourn this month.  Senators Seek Extension  A letter signed by 15 senators was sent on Dec. 9 to Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, saying the
production tax-credit extension should be added to “any tax
legislative vehicle as soon as possible.”  Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , a state that’s the
second-largest U.S. producer of electricity from wind, was the
only Republican to sign. In the House, Representative Mike Pompeo, a Kansas Republican, introduced a bill to repeal energy-
specific tax breaks.  More than 60 percent of components that make up a wind
turbine are made in the U.S. in more than 400 manufacturing
plants in 43 states, according to the wind group.  Kevin Hazel, vice president for supply-chain management for
Wind Power Americas, a Siemens unit, said the division has
expanded to 1,800 employees from one worker in 2005.  The loss of the credit would have a “definite impact” on
jobs and could jeopardize the company’s expansion plans, Hazel
told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  