-- 
Bank Credit Highest Since Before Lehman as U.S. Growth Continues

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-12-12T00:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/bank-credit-highest-since-before-lehman-bankruptcy-as-expansion-continues.html
U.S. bank credit is growing at the
fastest pace in three years, giving the Federal Reserve
confidence in the economic expansion’s staying power.  Financial institutions increased commercial and industrial
loans by an average annual pace of almost 10 percent in the
third quarter, the highest since the comparable quarter in 2008,
compared with a 1.7 percent decline in the past four years,
according to  Fed data . The latest numbers show loan growth of 15
percent, seasonally adjusted, in October and 6.1 percent in
November.  The resumption in lending means a projected fourth-quarter
pickup in gross domestic product may be sustained next year even
amid  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, said Robert McTeer, former
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  president. He predicts the
central bank’s policy group, which has moved to push down long-
term interest rates and pledged to keep its benchmark federal
funds rate near zero through mid-2013, probably won’t approve
new monetary easing at its Dec. 13 meeting.  “The bank-credit statistics argue that more stimulus isn’t
needed,” said McTeer, 69, a distinguished fellow at the Dallas-
based National Center for Policy Analysis. The Fed considers
loan data an “important” indicator reinforcing its forecast
for growth to accelerate, so the trend “is very encouraging.”  Banks have eased lending terms this year after raising
levels of equity capital following 2009 Fed stress tests and
reducing losses stemming from the  housing slump  and deepest
recession since the 1930s. Credit markets froze and financial
institutions tightened standards after the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  ‘Improved’ Demand  The “improved loan demand” is “encouraging,” agreed
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart , a
former commercial banker. “Businesses are more of a mind to
expand,” he said Nov. 29 after an economic-outlook conference
in Atlanta.  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , a defense contractor, increased its
long-term borrowings to $3.9 billion in the third quarter from
$2.4 billion in the previous quarter. Part of this went to new
plant and equipment spending, including a $500 million expansion
plan over seven years at Gulfstream Aerospace, a business-jet
maker in Savannah, Georgia, spokesman Robert Doolittle said.  Magnum Hunter Resources Corp. (MHR) , an oil and natural-gas
exploration and production company in Houston, increased its
long-term borrowings to $209.5 million in the third quarter from
$145.8 million three months earlier.  “Our available credit with our banks this year” has
increased five times “based on the success of our drilling
programs,” Chief Financial Officer Ronald Ormand said in a
statement.  Bright Spot  Fed officials cited commercial lending as a bright spot
during the Nov. 1-2 Federal Open Market Committee meeting,
saying it “accelerated” beyond “strong increases” in the
first half of the year, based on the minutes published Nov. 22.
Domestic banks have loosened standards for eight consecutive
quarters, according to the Fed’s October 2011 survey of senior
loan officers released Nov. 7.  “We are looking at a clear upward trend in bank lending to
businesses, and that to me has been the missing link,” said  Ian Shepherdson , chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics
Ltd. in Valhalla,  New York . “If that continues, and I think it
will, then I think that the small-business sector, which has
been in a horrible, horrible state, will really contribute
strongly to growth next year.”  Housing, which has aided every post-World War II recovery
except the one after the 2007-2009 recession, hasn’t rebounded
from a five-year slump, so the improvement in business
investment is helping to pick up the slack.  Fourth-Quarter Expansion  Shepherdson predicts GDP will expand more than 3 percent in
the fourth quarter, the fastest this year, and 3 percent in
2012. That compares with the 2.8 percent and 2.1 percent median
forecasts of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from Dec. 2
to Dec. 8. The Fed’s governors and regional-bank presidents
project 2.5 percent to 2.9 percent growth next year.  U.S. lenders had net income of $35.3 billion in July-
September, the best performance in four years, as loan-loss
provisions and net charge-offs fell, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. data showed Nov. 22. They put aside 47 percent less money
for bad loans, and charge-offs fell by 39 percent, the FDIC said
in its Quarterly Banking Profile released in  Washington .  “Every bank in the U.S. benefits” when loan demand
strengthens, since lending is “very profitable,” said  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz, Florida.
Most corporations borrow at rates higher than the prime rate of
3.25 percent, while 10-year Treasury notes yielded  2.06 percent 
at 4 p.m. on Dec. 9 in New York.  ‘Buy’ Ratings  Bove rates  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  as “buy.”  Commercial lending is “very strong for us,” U.S. Bancorp
Chief Executive Officer Richard Davis said at an investor
conference Dec. 7. “Our growth last quarter was very good. Our
growth this quarter is better than last quarter, and so the
momentum continues.”  Lending also supports greater investment in equipment and
software, which increased by more than  15 percent  in the third
quarter after an almost 15 percent rise in 2010, Bureau of
Economic Analysis data show. This investment -- for  goods 
ranging from calculators to aircraft --  contributed  about a full
percentage point to the quarter’s 2 percent growth.  During the recession, the share of business investment in
GDP fell to about 9.2 percent, the lowest since the mid-1960s.  ‘High Correlation’  “There is a very high correlation between growth in bank
credit and growth in demand in the economy,” said  Paul Kasriel ,
Northern Trust Corp. chief economist and a former Fed staffer.
“The FDIC data suggest banks -- and perhaps bank regulators --
are more comfortable with bank-capital positions in order to
support new lending,” he said.  While credit creation is positive, he said he worries about
the impact of shocks from the European Union and other regions.  “We now are faced with a weakening in foreign demand, as
the EU likely has entered a recession and the economic growth in
the developing economies, such as  China , is slowing because of
prior monetary tightening there.”  Some companies also don’t have access yet to lenient terms,
said  Diane Swonk , chief economist and senior managing director
at Mesirow Financial Inc. in  Chicago . “The best borrowers are
getting solicited like crazy,” she said. “They have cash on
their balance sheets and are getting low and easy credit.
Everyone else is pretty much shut out.”  Repeated Rejection  Alan LeBlanc, 49, president of Brewed to Serve Restaurant
Group Inc., which owns Max Lager’s Wood-Fired Grill & Brewery in
Atlanta, said borrowing remains tough. He spoke with “probably
two dozen banks” over more than a year and was repeatedly
rejected before a  Georgia  community bank approved an $800,000
loan this month for a new restaurant that will employ 60 people.  All this means economists aren’t predicting a return to the
10.5 percent average annual increases in loans from 2005 to 2007
that helped fuel the housing bubble and a construction boom.
Lending other than to businesses isn’t recovering much. Bank
real-estate loans declined 2.4 percent in the third quarter,
while consumer loans rose 2.2 percent, Fed data show.  Responding to complaints that small companies still have
trouble getting funding, Fed officials have held forums in
Atlanta, Chicago and Denver to look at “frictions that impede
the flow of credit to creditworthy borrowers,” Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said Nov. 9.  New York Fed President William C. Dudley, in a Nightly
Business Report interview Nov. 16, said he recently had
“probably the most positive meeting” with his small-business
advisory group that he’s had “in terms of the willingness of
banks to engage with them.”  Loan Availability  Overall, the  availability of loans  improved by more than 25
percent between March 2010 and October 2011, according to data
from the National Federation of Independent Business in
Nashville, Tennessee.  Custom Cable Assemblies Inc. of Warner Robins, Georgia, had
“no problem” borrowing $300,000 recently from  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  to
double its office and warehouse space, an expansion now under
construction, Chief Financial Officer Terry Di Diego said. Di
Diego, 56, and her husband, Joseph, 58, who is president, run
the 17-employee maker of cables for the aerospace industry.  Their company, which has operated with an “extremely
conservative” use of debt, benefited from a 26-year history, Di
Diego said. “We had three banks competing over us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandre Tanzi at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net  