-- 
Bank of China Seeks Foreign Acquisitions, President Li Says

-- B y   N a t h a n i e l   E s p i n o   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-12-12T11:21:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/bank-of-china-seeks-foreign-acquisitions-president-li-says-1-.html
Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  “will pay
attention to” merger and acquisition opportunities overseas as
it follows Chinese corporate clients into new markets, President
Li Lihui said after opening a branch in Japan.  China ’s third-largest lender by total assets will also add
branches in markets where it already has a presence, Li was
quoted as saying in the transcript of an interview posted to the
bank’s website today. Bank of China sees further opportunities
in Japan arising from trade between the two countries, he said.  “Asia will be the major area where Bank of China wants to
increase its focus,” Li said. “The bank will concentrate on
areas where Chinese companies are expanding abroad. We will also
pay attention to regions such as central and eastern  Europe ,
areas where we didn’t have much coverage in the past.”  Bank of China, the only Chinese lender named last month as
one of 29 systemically important global banks that must hold
additional capital, has overseas operations in 31 countries,
 Hong Kong  and Macau, Li said in the interview. Larger rival
 Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (1398)  agreed in August to
buy assets in Argentina for $600 million, and the Financial
Times reported last month that China Construction Bank Corp. was
holding talks to buy a small Brazilian lender.  Chinese banks face “stress” in their home market as asset
quality worsens and they are required to support weaker
customers,  Fitch Ratings  said Dec. 2. Bank of China in October
posted its slowest profit growth in nine quarters as government
efforts to cool inflation curbed loan demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathaniel Espino in Warsaw at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  