-- 
Basel Weighs Changes to Liquidity Rule Amid Credit Squeeze

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-12-12T14:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/basel-group-weighs-changes-to-liquidity-rule-amid-credit-squeeze-concerns.html
Global financial regulators meeting
this week will seek to eradicate unintended consequences from
their draft bank-liquidity standards to avert a threat to
lending.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  will weigh
changes to its proposed liquidity-coverage ratio, amid
criticisms that it may stymie lending. Banks have argued that
requiring them to hold enough easy to sell assets to survive a
30-day credit squeeze may curtail  loans  by forcing them to hoard
cash and buy up  government bonds .  “There’s a complete disconnect between the economic
reality of what is highly liquid and what is allowed to count
under the LCR,” Monika Mars, a PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
director in Zurich, said in an interview.  Bank watchdogs are focusing on liquidity ratios to avoid a
repeat performance of the collapses of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  and  Dexia SA (DEXB) , which were blamed in part on the lenders
running out of short-term funding. The European Central Bank
last week agreed on an interest-rate cut and gave a pledge to
offer unlimited cash for three years in an effort to bolster
lenders’ access to funding.  Global regulators said  last month  that they would amend the
LCR to address “any unintended consequences” of the standard.  Andrea Enria, chairman of the European Banking Authority,
warned last week that “the  interbank market  has been shrinking
and is increasingly segmented” with banks “limiting themselves
to transactions with domestic peers and at shorter maturities.”  Review Started  European Union regulators have “already started” to re-
examine the LCR in parallel with the Basel committee, Enria
said. The standard needs to be “carefully reviewed and
calibrated.”  The Basel committee, which brings together regulators from
27 countries including the U.K, U.S. and  China , meets on Dec. 13
and Dec. 14.  The committee “is now looking at a much wider definition
of what can count as a highly liquid asset,” compared with a
draft version of the rule published last year, Jesper Berg,
senior vice president at  Denmark ’s biggest mortgage bank,
Nykredit A/S, said in an interview.  Regulators need to “move towards criteria for the LCR that
make more sense, also in light of the government debt crisis,”
Berg said.  The Basel group said in September that it would
“accelerate” this work in response to a  request  from the G-20
to give markets’ certainty on the rules as soon as possible.
Final changes to the LCR will be made next year, it said.  Market-Based Indicators  The committee is “looking at more market-based indicators
for defining highly liquid assets” as well as “revisiting” a
cap it imposed on how much some assets can count toward banks’
liquidity buffers, Mars said. It is also looking again at
assumptions on how much funding lenders would lose in a credit
squeeze.  The Basel committee may amend the LCR to let banks use
equities and more corporate debt to satisfy the rule, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the plans, Bloomberg News
reported last week. The move could reduce demand for European
 government securities , making it harder for nations on the brink
of insolvency to fund themselves.  European nations are split over the merits of the current
version of the standard.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial
services chief, has asked regulators to examine how the
liquidity rule should be adapted to the region’s banks. The U.K.
has warned against a watering down of what was agreed by Basel.  “One reason why the U.K. has taken a stricter line on the
liquidity coverage ratio compared to some other European
countries is because the  Bank of England  has historically had
very narrow rules for what counts as a highly liquid asset in
its collateral rules, notably compared to the  European Central
Bank ,” Berg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  