-- 
Billionaire Prokhorov to Tap Russia’s Growing Dissent in Bid Against Putin

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-12-13T18:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/billionaire-prokhorov-to-tap-russia-s-growing-dissent-in-bid-against-putin.html
Billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov is
seeking to tap the dissent that sparked  Russia ’s biggest anti-
government demonstrations in a decade, pledging to run against
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin for the presidency next March.  “Society is awakening,” the New Jersey Nets basketball
team owner told reporters in Moscow yesterday after announcing
his candidacy in the wake of protests against fraud in a Dec. 4
parliamentary vote.  Prokhorov’s Onexim Group today said it’s seeking to buy
fellow billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s Kommersant publishing
house, which runs the country’s oldest business daily. Usmanov,
who fired the editor of  Kommersant Vlast  for printing a photo of
a ballot defaced with an obscenity against Putin, said through
his press service that he has “no plans to sell” Kommersant.  Thousands of Russians took to the streets to protest the
results of a parliamentary contest that observers from the U.S.
and  Europe  said was neither free nor fair. Prokhorov, 46,
Russia’s third-richest man with a fortune Forbes magazine put at
$18 billion, said he plans to build grassroots support and that
he opposes “revolution” and “populism.”  Venting ‘Channel’  “He could certainly act as a channel to vent out the
frustration of many young professional voters,” Lilit Gevorgyan, a London-based analyst at IHS Global Insight, said
yesterday by e-mail. “His entry could be a game changer in what
otherwise seems to be a perfectly controlled vote.”  Onexim Group, the holding company for Prokhorov’s stakes in
aluminum producer  United Co. Rusal (486) , gold miner  Polyus Gold
International Ltd. , investment bank  Renaissance Capital  and the
RBC television channel, is planning a bid for Kommersant, Chief
Executive Officer Dmitry Razumov said by phone.  Maxim Kovalsky, editor of Kommersant Vlast, was dismissed
because he published a photo containing “indecent language,”
Usmanov’s press service said by e-mail from Moscow today. Andrei
Galiev, general director of the media group that manages the
weekly, ZAO Kommersant Holding, was also fired, it said.  Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks rallied for the
first day in three, adding 2.1 percent to 1,378.56 at the close
in Moscow after last week’s 7.3 percent decline, the biggest in
almost three months. The ruble was little changed against the
dollar after weakening for eight straight trading sessions
against the U.S. currency.  Biggest Setback  Putin’s ruling United Russia party suffered its biggest
setback since he came to power a decade ago, with its majority
in the State Duma eroded to 238 of the legislature’s 450 seats
from 315 in 2007 as stalling wage growth and the government’s
shortcomings in curbing corruption repelled voters.  An opposition crowd of 25,000 people rallied in central
Moscow on Dec. 10, according to police, in the city’s largest
anti-government protest since Putin first became president in
2000. A same-sized demonstration occupied Red Square yesterday
in support of United Russia, authorities said.  “This is the most important decision of my life,” said
Prokhorov, who quit as leader of the Right Cause party on Sept.
15 after accusing President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s administration of
blocking the group’s preparations for the parliamentary vote.  Prokhorov is seeking to be an “integrator” who can unite
Russia’s liberal opposition, the billionaire told the Interfax
news service yesterday in an interview.  ‘Latest Wrinkle’  Prokhorov’s entry into the race “is simply the latest
wrinkle in an astonishing election season,” Otkritie Financial
Corp. analysts led by chief economist Vladimir Tikhomirov said
in an e-mailed research note today.  “We expect that in a week’s time the Medvedev-Putin ruling
tandem will announce another important decision regarding the
tactics of the presidential campaign,” Otkritie said. “We do
not rule out that President Medvedev could step down from the
presidency, which would automatically transfer his duties to the
prime minister,  Vladimir Putin .”  Prokhorov may have the backing of ousted Finance Minister
 Alexei Kudrin , who told the Vedomosti newspaper in an interview
published yesterday that he supports the creation of a new
right-of-center party, a topic he has discussed with Prokhorov.
Kudrin was the second longest-serving minister in the government
when he resigned Sept. 26, citing disagreements with Medvedev
over spending.  ‘Right-Liberal’  The statements by Kudrin and Prokhorov reflect the growing
need for a “right-liberal” party, said  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a
sociologist who studies the country’s elite at the Russian
Academy of Sciences and has been a member of the ruling party
since 2009.  “I don’t rule out that Putin will move closer to the
right,” she said. “Many people will welcome creating such a
party and will join under Kudrin’s banner. People in the right
flank have longed for unification.”  Russia needs a new party to accommodate “annoyed” city
residents,  Vladislav Surkov , Medvedev’s first deputy chief of
staff, said of the protests in an interview posted on the Ekho
Moskvy radio station’s website on Dec. 6.  Prokhorov’s candidacy may be a ploy to benefit Putin by
legitimizing the March vote through the appearance of genuine
competition, said  Sergei Markov , a former  United Russia  lawmaker
who heads the Institute of Political Studies in Moscow.  ‘Glamorous Oligarch’  “There are two possibilities here, either it’s something
agreed with Putin to bolster the legitimacy of the presidential
elections after the recent protests or Prokhorov could be
jumping on the bandwagon of the protests,” Markov said by phone
in Moscow. “Prokhorov is a glamorous oligarch and he’s got
plenty of money to spend on promoting himself.”  Stanislav Govorukhin, the film director Putin tapped to
lead his presidential campaign, declined to comment on
Prokhorov’s candidacy or Putin’s strategy for addressing the
protesters, when Bloomberg reached him yesterday by phone.  Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s spokesman, said the premier is aware
of Prokhorov’s political intentions, adding that it’s every
Russian’s right to run for president, news services including
state-run RIA Novosti reported.  Medvedev ordered an investigation into allegations of
ballot-stuffing in the parliamentary poll as the swelling
resentment threatened to weaken Putin’s Kremlin bid.  Putin served the maximum two consecutive terms from 2000 to
2008, when he stepped aside in favor of his protégé Medvedev.
Putin said in September that he’d appoint Medvedev prime
minister if he wins in March.  Longer Term  Parliament lengthened the presidential term to six years
from four years after Medvedev came to office, giving Putin the
opportunity to prolong his stay in power to a quarter century.  Prokhorov said Putin and Medvedev declined to meet with him
to discuss his presidential bid and that he’ll spend 10 percent
of his campaign criticizing Putin and the rest laying out his
proposals. He also said he isn’t afraid of suffering the fate of
jailed former Yukos Oil Co. billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky .  Khodorkovsky was Russia’s richest man when he was arrested
at gunpoint on the tarmac of a Siberian airport in October 2003.
He was sentenced to a total of 13 years in two separate
convictions for fraud,  tax evasion  and oil embezzlement as Yukos
was dismantled and sold at auction to cover more than $30
billion in back taxes. Khodorkovsky, who denies any guilt, says
he was targeted by Putin for financing opposition parties.  Prokhorov said he’ll need about a month to file all the
paperwork and collect the 2 million signatures needed to be
included on the ballot as an independent.  “Prokhorov’s task is to help Putin get elected,” said
 Boris Nemtsov , a former deputy prime minister under the late
President  Boris Yeltsin . “A billionaire would never have taken
such a risk if he hadn’t had an agreement with Putin.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  