-- 
Billionaire Syed Mokhtar Gets Mahathir’s Support to Buy Proton

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-12-12T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/billionaire-syed-mokhtar-gets-mahathir-s-support-to-buy-proton.html
Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary, Malaysia’s
second-youngest billionaire, received former Prime Minister
Mahathir Mohamad’s endorsement to acquire a controlling stake in
automaker  Proton Holdings Bhd. (PROH)   DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB) , Syed Mokhtar’s auto assembler, is the best
candidate to buy the government’s 43 percent stake in Proton,
Mahathir, now an adviser at the carmaker he founded in 1983,
said in a joint interview yesterday in Putrajaya, outside  Kuala
Lumpur . Officials at DRB and  Khazanah Nasional Bhd.,  the
government investment arm holding the Proton shares, weren’t
immediately available to comment.  The support of the man who was Malaysia’s prime minister
for two decades indicates DRB’s purchase of the stake -- valued
at 993 million ringgit ($314 million) at current prices -- is
imminent because of the former premier’s lingering influence,
according to James Ratnam, an analyst at TA Securities Holdings
Bhd. Proton would add the owner of the  Lotus  sports car brand to
Syed Mokhtar’s business  empire,  which includes ports, airports
and power plants.  “Mahathir’s view and approval would be sought by Khazanah
if it wants to sell Proton,” said Ratnam, an analyst in Kuala
Lumpur. “He is the adviser and founder of Proton, the company
is still very close to his heart even as he has retired.”  Proton advanced 6 percent to 4.23 ringgit yesterday,
extending its lead as the best performer on the 100-stock  FTSE
Malaysia Index (FBM100)  in the past month to 57 percent. DRB-Hicom was
unchanged at 2.12 ringgit.  General Offer  Should DRB seek to buy a 43 percent stake, it would be
obliged to make a general offer for Proton’s remaining shares
under Malaysian acquisition rules.  Syed Mokhtar, 60, is the Southeast Asian nation’s second-
youngest billionaire after Berjaya Corp. Chairman Vincent Tan,
according to Forbes magazine’s latest rankings. His ties to
Mahathir, who describes the Malaysian tycoon as a friend,
stretch back more than a decade. About a year before Mahathir
stepped down in 2003 as prime minister, he awarded a $3.8
billion rail project -- then the nation’s biggest infrastructure
undertaking -- to contractors including Syed Mokhtar’s MMC Corp.  DRB would be able to consolidate and expand its share of
 Malaysia  automotive market with a Proton acquisition, TA
Securities’ Ratnam said. DRB manufactures, distributes and
assembles a range of vehicles from motorcycles to garbage trucks
for brands including Suzuki, Mercedes-Benz and Yamaha. It has
eight assembly plants of which four are for cars, including one
in Malaysia’s southern Malacca state where Hondas are made.  Volkswagen Partnership  Selangor-based DRB began manufacturing its first Volkswagen
AG Passat vehicles several weeks ago after signing a partnership
agreement with the German carmaker last year.  Proton, whose vehicles are driven by taxi drivers across
Malaysia, are among the cheapest cars sold in the country. The
company, which had two annual net losses over the past five
years, is poised to see its profit fall 51 percent in the year
ending March, according to the average of 13 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Proton has been looking for a strategic partner to compete
with global automakers such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Partnership
talks to form a partnership with Volkswagen,  Europe ’s largest
carmaker, ended last year.  While  Khazanah  approached local companies Naza Group and
 Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  about buying the Proton stake, Syed Mokhtar’s
DRB may be the best fit, said Mahathir.  “DRB seems well-run,” Mahathir said. “It is already
producing cars for Suzuki, Mercedes and Volkswagen. They have
the capacity to turn around Proton and won’t undermine its
vendors.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala
Lumpur at   pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Young-Sam Cho
in Tokyo at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  