-- 
Body Shop Fails to Return $1 Billion to ’06 Shareholders: Retail

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-12-12T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/body-shop-fails-to-return-1-billion-to-06-shareholders-retail.html
The Body Shop was ahead of its time
in using natural ingredients and getting customers to recycle
packaging. Five years after  L’Oreal SA (OR)  paid $1 billion for the
retailer, shareholders are still waiting for a payoff.  The maker of 12.50-pound ($19.68)  Candied Ginger Body
Butter , founded 35 years ago as the green alternative to
mainstream cosmetics, has struggled amid competition from  Tesco
Plc (TSCO)  to Lush, the Poole, England-based maker of handmade soaps
and face creams. The Body Shop failed to react to louder and
more ambitious claims by these and other rivals, said Vivienne
Rudd, senior European beauty analyst at  Mintel International .  “It doesn’t seem to have a unique selling point anymore
and that’s hard to get back once it’s gone,” Rudd said.  Sophie Gasperment, who joined the Body Shop as chief
executive officer in 2008, wants to change that. The London-
based company, which has more outlets than  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) ,
the owner of H&M stores, will redesign stores next year to
showcase the origins and potency of its formulas as well as
introduce new packaging and products including the Chocomania
bath and body range.  L’Oreal chairman and CEO Jean-Paul Agon expects the
retailer, whose championing of human rights and fair trade once
won customers by making them look and feel good, to match its
owner’s sales growth by 2014. Revenue at the Body Shop, which
accounted for 3.9 percent of L’Oreal’s total last year, rose 2.6
percent on a comparable basis in the first nine months of 2011
after declining in the previous three quarters. L’Oreal’s sales
rose 5.1 percent in the period.  Underperforming Sales  L’Oreal, the world’s largest maker of cosmetics, bought the
company for 652 million pounds in 2006. The Body Shop’s annual
sales have fallen 4.1 percent since 2007 when they reached a
record 786.9 million euros ($1.1 billion). L’Oreal’s revenue has
gained 14 percent in the last three years.  Only  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) ’s Bath & Body Works has grown at a
slower rate than the Body Shop since 2005 in terms of retail
sales in dollars, according to an analysis of 12 beauty
retailers by Planet Retail. The global beauty and personal care
market is set to expand 5.5 percent to 304.7 billion euros this
year and reach 387.3 billion euros by 2015, Euromonitor
International estimates.  Starting with one store in 1976, founder Anita Roddick
built the Body Shop into a chain that now has 2,657 outlets,
about 10 percent more than H&M, the world’s second-largest
clothing retailer. Roddick, who died in 2007, opposed animal
testing, used natural ingredients such as mango and tea tree oil
and encouraged customers to return plastic bottles for refills.  Taking Time  “It’s not always easy to refresh brands,” Agon said of
the Body Shop in an interview in April. “It’s taking time.”  While the Body Shop’s natural and ethical stance helped set
it apart at first, it hasn’t worked hard enough to reinvent
itself as a relevant brand for young people, according to
Matthew Stych, non-food research director at  Planet Retail .  “They seem to be sticking pretty much with a core range of
products over the last 10, 20 or 30 years and just innovating
around the fringe,” Stych said. Lush, the closely held maker of
30-pound Ladyboy perfume, “is probably seen as more radical
these days.”  Gasperment, who managed L’Oreal’s U.K. business before
joining the Body Shop, halted expansion in 2008 and commissioned
research to gauge perceptions of the brand. In the last two
years, she has introduced organic lines and updated products
like Hemp Hand Protector with Community Fair Trade ingredients.
The store revamp marks “a step change” in the Body Shop’s
strategy, Gasperment, 47, said in an interview.  Pilot Stores  “We’ve been doing some remarkable things for years but we
probably weren’t communicating it in the right way before,” she
said. “The stores are part of the brand expression.”  The Body Shop opened three pilot stores in  London  with pale
wood floors, white walls and areas where consumers can test and
learn about products. At one in Islington, maps show where
ingredients come from and tags give information about suppliers
and recommendations from staff. Space is also devoted to causes
the retailer supports such as stopping child sex trafficking.  The format is working so far. On average, customers spend
up to 10 minutes in the pilot stores, twice as long as in the
chain’s other outlets, according to Gasperment. Since the first
opened in May, the new shops are outperforming the retailer’s
top 40 stores in the U.K. by mid-to-high single digit
percentage, the CEO said. “Consumers have a huge appetite for
storytelling,” she said.  Not in  China   The Body Shop will open or refit about 80 stores in the new
format from April in markets including the U.K.,  North America ,
 Hong Kong  and  Russia . A company spokesman declined to quantify
how much the rollout will cost, saying only that the prototypes
had shown a very compelling return on investment.  Gasperment aims to meet Agon’s target also by opening more
stores and expanding beyond the Body Shop’s 65 markets.  “There’s still a lot up for grabs,” she said, citing
 India , where the retailer operates 80 “very profitable”
outlets, and  Latin America , where it only sells in airports and
duty free areas.  The Body Shop will open more stores in 2012 than the 132 it
added in 2011, a company spokesman said. None of them will be in
China because it requires animal testing.  Growth will also come online as the Body Shop introduces
web loyalty cards and mobile commerce.  Internet sales  are
surging 40 percent annually, representing more than 12 percent
of revenue in the U.S. and just below that level in the U.K. and
 South Korea , Gasperment said.  “It will be 20 percent of the business in the medium
term,” the CEO said, calling e-commerce a strategic priority.
The Body Shop currently sells online in 16 countries.  Still, the Body Shop’s revival rests on its ability to be
taken more seriously, Mintel’s Rudd said. The retailer evokes a
sense of nostalgia among people who remember buying or receiving
Christmas gift sets and many women start out by buying its hair
care and fragrances. “But then there’s the perception that as
they get older, they move onto other brands,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  