-- 
Brazil Economists Slash 2012 Rate Forecast For Second Week, Survey Shows

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-12-12T13:02:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/brazil-economists-see-12-month-cpi-at-5-44-down-third-straight-week.html
Economists covering  Brazil  cut their
year-end 2012 forecast for the benchmark rate for the second
straight week on expectations of slower growth in the wake of
Europe’s debt crisis.  Economists expect the Selic rate to fall to 9.50 percent by
the end of 2012, according to the median forecast in a Dec. 9
 central bank survey  of about 100 economists published today,
down from last week’s forecast of 9.75 percent. Analysts also
cut forecasts for inflation next year, partly as economists
incorporated new weightings for items that make up the IPCA
index, disclosed by the national statistics agency in November.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini last month trimmed
rates for a third straight meeting, to 11 percent, to protect
Brazil from the European debt crisis. The world’s sixth-biggest
economy shrank in the third quarter, contracting 0.04 percent
from the previous three months, as credit curbs, higher
borrowing costs and budget cuts in the beginning of the year
sapped demand for goods and services.  “The inflation expectations partly reflect the change in
the index, and also the worsening external environment with
 Europe  likely going into a recession and Chinese growth
slowing,” said Mauricio Nakahodo, senior economist at CM
Capital Markets, in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Lower CPI Forecasts  Consumer prices as measured by the  IPCA index  will increase
5.44 percent over the next 12 months, down from a forecast of
5.47 percent the previous week, the survey showed. Prices will
rise 5.42 percent next year, down from 5.49 percent in last
week’s survey. Analysts left unchanged their 6.50 percent
inflation forecast for this year.  Traders in the interest-rate futures market raised bets for
cheaper borrowing costs, pushing the yield on contracts due
January 2013 down four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 9.82 percent at 10:23 a.m. Brasilia time. The real fell 1
percent to 1.8164 per dollar.  Analysts lowered their forecast for economic growth this
year to 2.97 percent, from 3.09 percent, the survey found. The
world’s second-largest emerging market after  China  will expand
3.4 percent next year, down from a previous forecast of 3.48
percent, according to the survey.  Brazil’s economy contracted for the first time in 2 1/2
years in the third quarter after policy makers raised borrowing
costs earlier in the year and the European and U.S. debt crises
hurt confidence. GDP shrank 0.17 percent in the quarter on an
annualized basis.  Inflation Target  Annual inflation slowed for a second straight month in
November, to 6.64 percent. Brazil targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points. Inflation has
exceeded the upper limit of the target range since April.  In the minutes to its November policy meeting published
last week, the central bank cut the inflation forecasts in its
so-called reference and market scenarios to around the 4.5
percent midpoint of its target range at the end of 2012.  The national statistics agency reviews the weight of items
in its basket every five years to better reflect family
consumption patterns detected by its surveys, according to
Eulina Nunes, coordinator of the IPCA index at the Rio de
Janeiro-based statistics agency, IBGE. The weighting of cable TV
and consumer electronic goods will increase in the consumer-
price basket, while that of cigarettes will decline, Nunes said
after the agency announced the changes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  