-- 
Bumbling Murderers, Power Moves, Raucous Rhymes: London Stage

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-12-12T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/bumbling-murderers-power-moves-raucous-rhymes-london-stage.html
The attempted murder of a vulnerable
old lady is played for laughs. Brutal deaths are used to prompt
chuckles. When times are tough, the tough turn to gallows humor.  Good for that, say I. “The Ladykillers,” a 1955 U.K.
movie comedy masterpiece, has been adapted for the London stage
and proves to be a belly-laugher.  Some bank robbers rent a shabby room near King’s Cross
Station from sweet old Mrs. Wilberforce to carry out their next
heist. They claim to be string players who want to practice a
Boccherini quintet, much to her delight.  Just when they get the cash she uncovers their plot, and
insists they go to the police. What can they do? It’s curtains
for the old bird, or the game’s up. A hilarious cat’s cradle of
complications ensue.  Writer Graham Linehan rethinks William Rose’s film script
in terms of the broadest stage business. There’s far more
slapstick and exaggeration. The old lady is dottier. The stupid
crook is even stupider. The gentleman crook, Major Courtney,
turns out to be a sweet-natured transvestite.  If the strange, dream-like quality of the film’s humor is
lost, the gain is a fast black farce of banging doors and split-
second timing.  Musical Crooks  It all works handsomely in  Sean Foley ’s production, which
is set in the 1950s and full of slick physical routines. When
the crooks are forced to give a musical performance in front of
a gaggle of Mrs. Wilberforce’s wittering old friends, the chief
criminal warns them that it will sound very modern, “even
insane.” The crooks scrape and pluck randomly with gusto. The
ladies dutifully clap.  “Being fooled by contemporary art is one of the pleasures
of the middle classes,” says the leader with a big wink at the
audience.  Michael Taylor’s multilevel set is a fantasia on a
subsiding Victorian villa, with crazily sloping walls, terrible
plumbing and tassels everywhere. It turns around to reveal a few
clever visual gags.  The acting is pitched high, and sustained well. Marcia
Warren holds it together as the linchpin Mrs. Wilberforce. Her
shuffling little steps and forgetful hesitations are a delight.
Peter Capaldi is pop-eyed and semi-insane as the gang leader
Professor Marcus, and Clive Rowe steals his scene as the
gormless lunk One-Round.  A trip to the gallows has never been so much fun.  Rating: ***.  Grandage’s Adieu  For his final production as artistic director of the Donmar
Warehouse,  Michael Grandage  has chosen Shakespeare’s “Richard
II.” It’s about a king who struggles to keep hold of his crown
and his power. Let’s hope Grandage isn’t having second thoughts.  He has done a terrific job at the helm of the  Donmar , and
he finishes on a high. His taut, straightforward production
looks gorgeous on a split-level set (Richard Kent) decorated
with gothic quatrefoils and splendid arches. The royal power
games are played out with clarity, and the glories of the
language allowed to shine.  That said, Eddie Redmayne (“My Week With Marilyn”)
doesn’t quite step up to the plate as Richard. He’s good at the
febrile despair of the deposed king. He also tends to chew open-
mouthed when not speaking, and uses flappy explanatory hand
gestures as if he were modeling every noun in pieces of clay. If
he can improve his technique, there may be a fascinating Richard
waiting to come out.  Fortunately, he’s supported by a great cast, including
Andrew Buchan as Richard’s energetic and bold rival Bolingbroke,
and Ron Cook as a dithering Duke of York who wishes to be fair
to all sides in the rebellion. Rating: **.  Aging Rappers  The female musical-cabaret trio Fascinating Aida has been
offering smart satire, tuneful silliness and old-fashioned
rudeness since 1983, and still feels as fresh as paint.  The group’s latest show takes their web-viral hit song
“Cheap Flights” (8 million hits) as its title, and dishes up
an entertaining mix of new songs and old favorites.  There’s a jolly Swiss waltz about taking an aged parent to
a euthanasia clinic. There’s a terrific pattersong about a
figure-conscious actress who wants children so she hires an
orangutan to be her surrogate womb. The rhymes are far too rude
to repeat here.  There’s an eye-watering oldsters’ rap, and a needle-sharp
number about the financial crisis choreographed in the style of
Bob Fosse. There are plenty of bittersweet thoughts on
relationships and ageing too.  Peter Cook  once referred to “those wonderful Berlin
cabarets which did so much to stop the rise of Hitler and
prevent the outbreak of the second world war.”  Fascinating Aida may not prevent much either. You’ll howl
with laughter as it’s happening though.  Rating: ****.  “The Ladykillers” is at the Gielgud Theatre,
 http://www.theladykillers.co.uk  or +44-844-482-5138.  “Richard II” is at the Donmar, sponsored by  Barclays
Capital ,  http://www.donmarwarehouse.com  or +44-844-871-7624.  “Cheap Flights” is at the Charing Cross Theatre through
Jan. 7, 2012,  http://www.charincrosstheatre.co.uk  or
+44-20-7478-0170.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 