-- 
Cameron Tells Parliament He Protected U.K.’s Interest by Vetoing EU Treaty

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-12-12T18:09:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/cameron-tells-parliament-he-protected-u-k-s-interest-by-vetoing-eu-treaty.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said he
protected Britain’s national interest by refusing to join 26
other nations in a European Union-wide treaty to rescue the euro
last week.  Defending his blocking of the accord to lawmakers in London
today, Cameron said he’d sought “modest and reasonable”
safeguards for Britain’s finance industry and the EU’s single
market in the talks in Brussels and had no choice but to oppose
a treaty when he couldn’t secure them. Deputy Prime Minister
 Nick Clegg , who has criticized Cameron’s decision, was absent
from the House of Commons as the premier explained his actions.  “I went to Brussels with one objective, to protect
Britain’s national interest, and that is what I did,” Cameron
said. “It wasn’t the easy thing to do, but it was the right
thing to do.”  By refusing to join the fiscal accord, Cameron, who was
cheered by lawmakers from his  Conservative Party  as he arrived
in the chamber, strengthened the Tory faction that wants Britain
to leave the EU. He also caused the biggest divide in his
coalition with Clegg’s pro- Europe  Liberal Democrats since the
parties campaigned on opposite sides in a May referendum on
overhauling the voting system.  ‘Bad for Britain’  Cameron was repeatedly asked by lawmakers why Clegg was not
present in the Commons. He said he did not speak for his deputy.
Cameron’s decision to veto the pact to tighten budget rules
agreed to by the other 26 EU leaders was “bad for Britain,”
Clegg said in a pooled television interview after the premier’s
statement.  “When I was told about the outcome of the summit I
immediately told the prime minister I could not welcome it, it
was bad for Britain,” Clegg said. “What we need to do now is
build bridges, re-engage and make sure the British voice is
heard loud and clear in Europe.”  Conservative lawmaker Nadine Dorries accused Clegg and
other Liberal Democrats of making “cowardly and negative
attacks” in the media on Cameron’s use of the veto, “cowardice
only surpassed by the absence of the deputy prime minister in
the house today.”  ‘Euro-Fanatics’  Another Conservative, Phil Davies, condemned the Liberal
Democrats as “lickspittle euro-fanatics.”  Liberal Democrat Jo Swinson contrasted the “constructive
diplomacy” of the U.K. working with the EU at climate-change
talks in Durban,  South Africa , to Cameron’s approach in
Brussels.  It is the price of being in coalition that parties can’t
get everything they want, Cameron said. He committed himself to
making the coalition “work for Britain.”  “It’s no surprise to say that Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats have not always agreed,” Cameron said. “The
negotiating approach of the government was agreed by the
government before I went to Brussels,” he said. “I’m not
responsible for the whereabouts of the deputy prime minister,
but I’m sure he’s working extremely hard.”  Clegg played down the possibility of further division in
his television appearance, saying that “the coalition
government is here to stay.”  Backing a treaty would have changed the nature of the EU
and put Britain at a disadvantage, Cameron said.  ‘Balancing Arrangements’  “The EU treaty is the treaty of those outside the euro as
much as those inside the euro,” he told the Commons. “It would
have changed the nature of the EU, strengthening the euro zone
without balancing arrangements to protect the single market,”
he told lawmakers.  Cameron said Britain could remain as a strong member of the
EU while staying out of arrangements and treaties it does not
support.  “I do not believe there is a binary choice for Britain,”
the premier told lawmakers. “It’s possible to be a full
committed and influential member of the European Union but to
stay out of arrangements where they don’t suit our interests.”  Ed Miliband , the leader of the main opposition  Labour
Party , said Cameron’s veto was the result of a failure by his
19-month-old government to build alliances in Europe to protect
the U.K. and was more about splits in his own party than the
British national interest.  “He didn’t want a deal because he couldn’t deliver it in
his party. This is a bad deal we ended up with for bad reasons
and it will have lasting consequences,” Miliband told
lawmakers. “We will rue the day this prime minister left
Britain alone, without allies, without influence. It’s bad for
business, it’s bad for jobs, it’s bad for Britain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  