-- 
Canada Third Quarter International Investment Position (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-12-12T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/canada-third-quarter-international-investment-position-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's international investment position report for the
third quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  Canada's net foreign debt was down $31.8 billion to
$189.5 billion at the end of the third quarter, led by the
depreciation of the Canadian dollar against most major
foreign currencies.  During the quarter, the Canadian dollar lost 8.0%
against the US dollar, 5.3% against the British pound,
11.7% against the Japanese yen and 0.4% against the Euro.  Canada's international assets rose by $97.6 billion to
$1,598.9 billion. As these assets are denominated in
foreign currencies, the depreciation of the Canadian
dollar resulted in an $81.7 billion upward revaluation.
Canadian direct investment abroad in the third quarter
largely accounted for the balance of the increase in
international assets.  Canada's international liabilities rose by $65.7
billion to $1,788.5 billion. The depreciation of the
Canadian currency led to a $47.3 billion upward
revaluation of foreign debt, for that portion denominated
in foreign currencies. Ongoing foreign investment in
Canadian securities accounted for the balance of the
increase in international liabilities.  Canada's international investment position  Canada's net debt position with the  United States 
increased by $10.0 billion to $328.0 billion in the third
quarter. This net debt position has been on an upward
trend since the end of 2008. However, Canada's net asset
position with all other countries increased $41.8 billion
during the third quarter to $138.5 billion.  Largest increase in net direct investment asset position
since fourth quarter 2008  The value of Canadian direct investment abroad was up
by $50.2 billion, mainly on the revaluation effect of the
depreciation of the Canadian dollar on these foreign
assets. Foreign direct investment in Canada, which is
denominated in Canadian currency, rose by $7.2 billion. As
a result, the net direct investment asset position rose by
$43.0 billion to $82.9 billion at the end of the third
quarter, marking the largest increase since the fourth
quarter of 2008.  Net direct investment position  Non-resident holdings of Canadian securities up again  Canada's net debt position on securities widened
further in the third quarter. Canadian holdings of foreign
securities increased $23.8 billion in the third quarter,
largely on equities and led by the foreign currency
revaluations. Regarding the value of non-resident
portfolio investment in Canada, it was up $49.6 billion,
just above the increase registered in the second quarter
of 2010.  Increases in the third quarter of 2011 were equally
split between investment inflows and revaluations of
foreign currency-denominated Canadian debt instruments.
Non-resident investment in Canadian securities focused on
Canadian money market instruments during the quarter.  Decline in foreign equity markets leads to increase in net
foreign indebtedness  Canada's overall net international investment position
can also be calculated with tradable securities valued at
market prices. By this measure, Canada's net foreign debt
increased $20.7 billion to $233.6 billion at the end of
the third quarter. This largely reflected losses on
equity, with foreign stock markets weakening by more than
their Canadian counterpart in the quarter. Canadian
holdings of foreign equities were down $48.0 billion to
$507.5 billion, despite the upward foreign currency
revaluation effect. This compares with a $24.0 billion
decline in non-residents holdings of Canadian equities.  Note to readers  The international investment position presents the
value and composition of Canada's assets and liabilities
to the rest of the world. Canada's net international
investment position is the difference between these
foreign assets and liabilities. The excess of
international liabilities over assets can be referred to
as Canada's net foreign debt; the excess of international
assets over liabilities can be referred to as Canada's net
foreign assets. The valuation of the assets and
liabilities in the international investment position are
measured at book value, unless otherwise stated. Book
value represents the value of assets and liabilities
recorded in the books of the enterprise in which the
investment is made.  Currency valuation  The value of assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currency are converted to Canadian dollars at the
end of each period for which a balance sheet is
calculated. Most of Canada's foreign assets are
denominated in foreign currencies while less than half of
Canada's international liabilities are in foreign
currencies. When the Canadian dollar is appreciating in
value, the restatement of the value of these assets and
liabilities in Canadian dollars lowers the recorded value.
The opposite is true when the Canadian dollar is
depreciating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  