-- 
Carbon Loses Gains as Europe Debt Crisis Outweighs Durban Deal

-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n   a n d   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 
2011-12-12T12:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/carbon-loses-gains-as-europe-debt-crisis-outweighs-durban-agreement.html
Carbon prices gave up gains on
speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis will depress demand even as the
world’s largest polluters back away from positions that have
stymied global climate talks.  China, the world’s biggest emitter, and  India  agreed at the
climate summit that ended yesterday in Durban,  South Africa , to
take part in talks starting next year that would bind them for
the first time to emission reductions. The U.S., the second-
biggest emitter, also signed on to plan led by Europe to reach a
global agreement by 2015 to restrict  greenhouse gases  linked to
climate change by 2020.  Europe’s ability to solve its debt problems and stabilize
its economy will do more to drive carbon prices than
international environmental agreements, said Assaad Razzouk,
chief executive officer of Sindicatum Sustainable Resources
Group, a developer of clean-energy projects that is partly owned
by Citigroup Inc. and Cargill Inc.  “The carbon market pricing is driven by Europe, and what’s
more important in terms of Europe is its existential and
liquidity issues,” he said. “The carbon markets are more
likely to be influenced by what the Europeans have been doing in
Brussels than by Durban.”  European Union permits for delivery this month, which
initially rose as much 6.2 percent, surrendered those gains and
traded down 1.5 percent at 7.72 euros as 11:26 a.m. on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London  on Dec. 7. They traded at a
record low of 6.77 euros on Dec. 6.  Market Links  The EU allows emitters to comply with obligations in its
cap-and-trade program, the largest in the world, by using UN
credits known as offsets, linking the UN and European markets.  Certified Emission Reductions in the UN program for
December delivery fell as much as 2.8 percent in London to 5.15
euros. They traded as low as 4.53 euros ($6.04) on Nov. 25.  Carbon prices will continue to be linked to economic
prospects for the European Union and any improvement in the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis,  Emmanuel Fages , an analyst at
Orbeo in Paris, said today in an e-mailed research note. The
Durban climate deal will not prompt additional emission
reductions before 2020 and action from that year “is not
guaranteed,” he wrote.  UN Offsets  The UN’s Clean Development Mechanism was set up by the 1997
 Kyoto Protocol  as a way of letting richer nations offset their
emissions at home by paying for cleaner technology in  emerging
markets . Investors in these projects get CERs that they can sell
to companies and governments with pollution caps.  While the EU is the largest market for UN offsets,
 Australia  will allow emitters to use CERs for as much as half of
their emissions in a cap-and-trade program starting in 2015.  An oversupply of credits and the European debt crisis have
depressed the value of UN credits, said Milo Sjardin, head of
Asian emission markets for Bloomberg New Energy Finance in
 Singapore .  “The short-term fundamentals absolutely haven’t changed,”
Sjardin said. “But the agreement in Durban to agree sends a
good signal, and markets run on signals. The long-term
perspective is more positive in that at least everyone is
agreeing to do something.”  China , India and other developing nations argued before
1997 that their historical emissions are negligible and that
they shouldn’t be bound by the same limits as developed
countries. U.S. President George Bush cited the lack of targets
for developing nations when he refused to sign the treaty in
2001, and President Barack Obama’s climate envoy also ruled out
emissions cuts before other large emitters agreed to the same.  EU Climate Commission Connie Hedegaard helped break that
impasse at the Durban talks by presenting a “roadmap” that
calls for China and India to reduce emissions by 2020.  Everyone on Board  As part of the agreement in Durban,  Japan ,  Russia  and
 Canada  dropped their resistance to renewing their commitment to
Kyoto treaty after its targets expire in 2012, even though the
nations will not face new emission restrictions, Sjardin said.  “It is positive for the market,” said Phil Cohn, director
at Ramp Carbon Ltd., a Melbourne-based developer of emission
credits under the UN’s Clean Development Mechanism. “It removes
some of the residual uncertainty about the future.”  While the Durban agreement represents significant progress,
the world still needs to be more ambitious if it wants to keep
temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.7
Farenheit), said David McCauley, the Philippines-based chief of
 climate change  at the Asia Development Bank.  “There is room for guarded optimism,” McCauley said.
“But a lot is yet to be done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Anderson in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  