-- 
Cash Crunch Driving ICICI Risk Up by Most in Asia: India Credit

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-12-12T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/cash-crunch-driving-icici-risk-up-by-most-in-asia-india-credit.html
Costs to protect the bonds of Indian
banks against default are rising at the fastest pace among Asian
lenders as a worsening cash crunch threatens profits.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Mumbai-based  ICICI Bank
Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the nation’s largest private lender, jumped 76 basis
points in the past month to 471 basis points, the biggest
advance in the region, while those for government-controlled
 State Bank of India (SBIN)  rose 43 to 361, according to data provider
CMA. Similar contracts for  China Development Bank  fell 15 to 283
and those for  Korea Development Bank  slipped 10 to 178.  Lenders in India have borrowed from the central bank each
day since April to meet fund shortages as policy makers raised
 interest rates  seven times in 2011 to slow  inflation  that has
stayed above 9 percent. The  Reserve Bank of India  won’t
compromise on its fight against price increases to address the
cash deficit in the financial system, Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said last week.  “Banks face risks on profit margins because of policy
makers’ stance on liquidity,” Aneesh Srivastava, the Mumbai-
based chief investment officer at IDBI Federal Life Insurance
Co. that oversees about $430 million, said in an interview on
Dec. 4. “The central bank has to bring inflation down so it
will ensure that cash is available at a higher premium.”  The average cost of credit-default swaps insuring against
non-payment by five Indian lenders more than doubled in 2011 as
the  Reserve Bank  boosted the  repurchase rate  by 225 basis
points, or 2.25 percentage points, to a three-year high of 8.5
percent. Swaps for State Bank, the largest lender and a proxy
for the nation, hit a two-year high of 397 basis points this
quarter, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Interbank Loan Rates  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a nation or
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Indian banks  borrowed  an average 745 billion rupees ($14
billion) a day from the central bank this quarter, compared with
438 billion rupees in the three months to Sept. 30, as rising
benchmark rates bolstered funding costs in the money market.
Rates on  overnight  interbank loans climbed 315 basis points this
year to 8.65 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Inflation was 9.73 percent in October, the fastest pace among
 Asia ’s 10 biggest economies.  ‘No Sustained Easing’  “The outlook is not really comforting on the liquidity
front because there is no sustained easing in inflation,”
Diwakar Gupta, a managing director at Mumbai-based  State Bank ,
said in an interview on Dec. 4. “So there will be implications
on the performance of the banking industry while inflation is
what it is.”  State Bank will cancel untapped lines of credit and
reorganize its balance sheet to boost the amount of available
funds as it waits for an injection of funds from the government,
Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri said in an interview yesterday in
Mumbai. The lender has set up a panel to review ways to conserve
capital, Chaudhuri said.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the outlook for
India’s banking system last month to “negative,” saying a
domestic economic slowdown and the surge in borrowing costs will
boost bad loans. State Bank had its financial strength rating
cut by the ratings provider in October on inadequate capital
buffers and rising non-performing credit. The  Bankex index (BANKEX) , the
nation’s main gauge of banking stocks, has lost 26 percent this
year.  No ‘Dramatic Recovery’  Non-performing assets at the biggest Indian lender rose to
4.19 percent of total debt last quarter from 3.35 percent a year
earlier. Bad-loan provisions jumped 35 percent to 29.2 billion
rupees in the same period. India’s industrial  production  shrank
5.1 percent from a year earlier in October, the first decline in
28 months, government data showed yesterday.  “India’s growth momentum has been slipping in the last few
months, and we don’t expect a dramatic recovery in the near term
as long as the export outlook remains clouded, borrowing costs
high and business confidence low,” Atsi Sheth, a credit analyst
at Moody’s, said in an e-mail on Dec. 8.  The government’s decision last week to suspend plans to
allow overseas investment in the retailing industry due to lack
of political consensus will further hurt investor confidence,
Moody’s said in a research note yesterday.  “The policy reversal is credit negative,” Mumbai-based
Sheth wrote in the note. “It reinforces the popular view that
Indian politics hamper the government’s ability to implement
policies decisively.”  Bank Lending Slows  Annual increases in bank  lending  slowed to 17.6 percent
last month from 24.4 percent at the end of 2010, according to
central bank data. Sales of rupee-denominated bonds by Indian
companies shrank 23 percent this year to 1.49 trillion rupees
from 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Reserve Bank
forecast in June that bad loans will rise 25 percent in the year
to March to 2.91 percent of total credit.  Mumbai-based ICICI Bank bought the first rupee-denominated
credit-default swap contract last week to guard against the risk
of debt defaults. The lender bought credit protection on Rural
Electrification Corp.’s one-year bond from Mumbai-based IDBI
Bank Ltd., N.S. Venkatesh, head of treasury at IDBI, said on
Dec. 7.  Lower Returns  Yields in  India ’s government and corporate notes have
gained this year as the central bank boosted benchmark rates.
Yields on 10-year sovereign  bonds  climbed 53 basis points in
2011 to 8.47 percent. The yield on the 8.79 percent note due
2021 fell nine basis points yesterday in Mumbai, according to
the central bank’s trading system. The  extra yield  demanded by
investors to hold the notes over similar-dated U.S. Treasuries
has widened 182 basis points to 644 in 2011.  Rupee-denominated bonds returned 5.1 percent in 2011,
compared with the 20 percent earned by Indonesian debt,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  The Indian rupee’S 15 percent slide in 2011, the worst
performance among Asian currencies, will also boost the risk of
bad debt, according to Morgan Stanley. The currency slid 1.5
percent yesterday to 52.8350 per dollar and touched a record-low
52.84.  “Higher cost of capital, a slowdown in growth, and
foreign-exchange volatility are likely to result in a further
rise in non-performing loans,” analysts at Morgan Stanley led
by Hong Kong-based Chetan Ahya wrote in a research note dated
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  