-- 
Celgene’s Revlimid Delays Cancer Progression as Initial Therapy in Study

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-12-12T21:09:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/celgene-s-revlimid-delays-cancer-progression-as-initial-therapy-in-study.html
Celgene Corp. (CELG) , maker of the cancer
drug Revlimid, reported the medicine helped delay progression of
multiple myeloma in newly diagnosed patients.  A treatment of Revlimid in combination with the
chemotherapy melphalan and steroid prednisone, followed with
continuous Revlimid dosing, enabled patients to survive without
their disease progressing for 31 months, compared with 12 months
for melphalan and prednisone alone, Summit, New Jersey-based
Celgene said in a statement. The results were presented today at
the  American Society of Hematology  meeting in  San Diego .  The data “makes a strong case for approval of Revlimid in
the front line in this population, as well as a convincing case
for maintenance use,”  Brian Abrahams , a New York-based analyst
at  Wells Fargo & Co ., wrote today in a report. “We believe
European regulators should be convinced of Revlimid’s benefits
in this population.”  Celgene increased less than 1 percent to $63.66 at the
close of trading in  New York . The company has gained 7.6 percent
this year.  The 459-patient study focused on patients ages 75 and
younger who were ineligible for stem-cell transplant, a way of
treating the  bone marrow cancer . Celgene is applying for
approval in Europe for use of Revlimid as a first treatment
option and as a maintenance therapy in multiple myeloma.  Safety Profile  The medicine had an acceptable safety profile in patients
just starting to use it, with most able to reach maintenance
therapy that was also well tolerated, Celgene said in the
statement.  About 20,500 people in the U.S. will be diagnosed this year
with  multiple myeloma  and about 10,600 will die of the disease,
according to the  National Cancer Institute .  The data showed some secondary cancers arose during first-
line and maintenance use of Revlimid in 3 percent of patients
receiving the combination therapy plus continuous Revlimid and
in 2.6 percent of those on the combo without continuous
Revlimid, compared with 1 percent in the melphalan-prednisone
arm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  