-- 
CEO Pay at For-Profit Colleges Targeted by Lawmaker

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-12-12T21:45:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/ceo-pay-at-for-profit-colleges-targeted-by-lawmaker.html
Executive pay at for-profit colleges
is being  investigated  by the ranking member of a congressional
oversight committee, who said “lavish” compensation at the
schools bears little relationship to academic well-being.  Representative Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat on the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, sent  letters 
asking to see pay agreements from 13 companies, including  Apollo
Group Inc. (APOL) ,  Strayer Education Inc. (STRA)  and  Washington Post Co. (WPO) ’s
Kaplan unit. Cummings cited a 2010 Bloomberg article that showed
executives at the 15 U.S. publicly traded colleges received
compensation that exceeded traditional colleges and collected $2
billion from selling stock over the previous seven years.  Congress and the U.S. Education Department are scrutinizing
for-profit colleges, which received almost $32 billion in
federal grants and loans in the 2009-2010 school year. Students
at those schools are  defaulting  on government loans at higher
rates than those who attend nonprofit and public institutions.  “The American taxpayers fund these schools through
billions of dollars in tuition assistance, but there is little
evidence that lavish executive pay is linked to the well-being
of the students they are supposed to educate,” Cummings, who
represents  Maryland , said in a statement today.  ‘More Politics’  Congress should examine all colleges, not just for-profits,
said  Brian Moran , interim chief executive officer and president
of the Association of Private Sector Colleges & Universities, a
Washington-based trade group that represents for-profit schools.
He cited pay packages of football coaches at state and private
universities.  “This appears to be just more politics and unfortunately
fails to acknowledge the important role private sector colleges
and universities have in educating non-traditional students to
compete for jobs in a very difficult economic environment,”
Moran said in a statement.  Apollo, the biggest U.S. for-profit college, fell 0.2
percent to $50.24 at the close of New York trading. Strayer rose
1 cent to $96.31. The  Bloomberg U.S. For-Profit Education Index (USEDU) 
was largely unchanged.  “We appropriately base compensation on student
satisfaction and educational outcomes,” Rick Castellano, a
spokesman for Phoenix-based Apollo Group, said in a statement.  The other companies Cummings wrote to were:  Bridgepoint
Education Inc. (BPI) ,  Capella Education Co. (CPLA) ,  Career Education Corp. (CECO) ,
 Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO) ,  DeVry Inc. (DV) ,  Education Management
Corp. (EDMC) ,  Grand Canyon Education Inc. (LOPE) ,  ITT Educational Services
Inc. (ESI) ,  Lincoln Educational Services Corp. (LINC) , and  Universal
Technical Institute Inc. (UTI)   Strayer Chief Executive Officer Robert Silberman received
in 2009 a $40 million stock grant that vests over 10 years as
part of $41.9 million in compensation, according to the November
2010 Bloomberg article that Cummings cited. Andrew Clark,
president and CEO of Bridgepoint, received $20.5 million, mostly
related to the San Diego-based company’s April 2009 initial
public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  