-- 
Chelsea Striker Nicolas Anelka Agrees to Join Shanghai Shenhua Soccer Club

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-12T10:34:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/chelsea-striker-nicholas-anelka-agrees-to-join-china-s-shenhua-soccer-club.html
Chelsea striker Nicolas Anelka will
join  China ’s Shanghai Shenhua with a contract that may make him
among the world’s best-paid soccer players.  Anelka agreed to a two-year contract and will move next
month during the mid-season transfer window, the Chinese team
said, without disclosing financial terms. Chelsea confirmed the
transfer in a  statement  on its website.  The 32-year-old Frenchman will earn 10.6 million euros
($14.1 million) annually at Shenhua, which ranked the 11th in
the 16-team Chinese Super League last season that ended in
November, according to  a report  by Chinese news portal
Sina.com.cn. Shenhua is owned by billionaire Zhu Jun, the
chairman of Chinese online game operator and developer  The9 Ltd. (NCTY)   Anelka’s job will also include promotion for games produced
by The9, according to the Sina report.  Samuel Eto’o became one of the world’s top-earning players
in August when he transferred from  Inter Milan  to Russian team
Anzhi Makhachkala for a salary the British Broadcasting Corp.
put at 10 million euros. Real Madrid’s Cristiano Ronaldo has the
biggest salary in soccer, earning 13 million euros before
endorsement pay, according to France Football magazine, which
compiles an annual rich list of players.  China is becoming a draw for top players as Chinese
business owners splurge on soccer team spending. Darío Leonardo
Conca, the Argentine named best soccer player in the Brazilian
league for two years in a row, joined China’s Guangzhou
Evergrande from Fluminense of  Rio de Janeiro  for a record $10
million fee, the Chinese club said in July.  Didier Drogba , another Chelsea striker and former Real
 Madrid  midfielder Guti are among players that may join Chinese
clubs, according to Chinese media reports.  To contact the Bloomberg employee on this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  