-- 
Lampard’s Penalty Ends Manchester City’s Unbeaten Start to Premier League

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-12-13T00:21:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/chelsea-wins-2-1-to-hand-manchester-city-its-first-premier-league-defeat.html
Frank Lampard ’s late penalty kick
sent 10-man Manchester City to its first Premier League defeat
of the season as Chelsea rallied for a 2-1 win.  Lampard, on as a second-half substitute, converted an 83rd-
minute spot kick at Stamford Bridge in London last night after
 Daniel Sturridge ’s shot struck Joleon Lescott’s raised arm.
 Mario Balotelli  put the visiting team ahead after 97 seconds and
 Raul Meireles  made it 1-1 in the 34th minute.  The victory lifted Chelsea two places in the standings to
third, seven points behind City, which tops England’s elite
soccer division with 38 points after falling to its first loss
in 15 league games.  Manchester United  is two points back in
second place.  “We needed to win to stay in the race,” Lampard said in a
televised interview. “Ten points is a huge gap and luckily
we’ve closed that.”  Lampard drilled his penalty kick straight down the middle
10 minutes after coming on for Meireles as Chelsea pushed for
the winning goal following Gael Clichy’s 58th-minute ejection.
It was the third red card shown to a City player in the team’s
past six league games.  While City manager  Roberto Mancini  didn’t disagree with
Clichy’s red card, he said the turning point was when referee
Mark Clattenburg decided not to award a first-half penalty for a
challenge on David Silva by Chelsea’s  Jose Bosingwa .  “The referee was only a few meters away and was not
certain,” Mancini said in comments on City’s website. “But he
was certain when the ball struck Joleon Lescott’s arm from just
a few meters away in the second half.”  Early Lead  Balotelli gave City the lead within two minutes after
taking  Sergio Aguero ’s pass and dribbling the ball around
Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech to score. Aguero dragged a 14th-
minute shot wide before Clattenburg waved play on when Silva
fell under Bosingwa’s challenge.  Chelsea tied it 11 minutes before half time when Meireles
volleyed Sturridge’s cross past City goalkeeper  Joe Hart . A
minute after the restart, Sturridge went close to scoring
against his former team with a rising drive.  City went down to 10 men when Clichy, who had been booked
for fouling Sturridge early in the second half, tripped Ramires
to earn a second yellow card.  Although Mancini removed attackers Aguero and Silva for
defender Kolo Toure and midfielder Nigel de Jong, Lampard’s goal
sealed Chelsea’s third straight league win to end City’s 17-game
unbeaten run stretching back to last season.  “Our objective was to shorten the distance to the
leaders,” Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas said in a televised
interview. “We needed to do our job to get our challenge back
on track and I think it’s pretty much alive now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  