-- 
Dolphins Fire Coach Tony Sparano as Chiefs Oust Haley Following Defeats

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-12-12T22:34:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/chiefs-fire-coach-todd-haley-after-loss-to-jets.html
The Miami Dolphins fired coach Tony Sparano and the  Kansas City Chiefs  dismissed coach Todd Haley
after both National Football League teams dropped out of playoff
contention with losses.  Haley was let go by the Chiefs this morning, a day after
the team fell to 5-8 with a 37-10 loss to the  New York Jets . The
Dolphins parted ways with Sparano less than 24 hours after they
slipped to 4-9 with a 26-10 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles.  Haley and Sparano are the second and third NFL coaches
fired this season. The  Jacksonville Jaguars  dismissed Jack Del Rio last month.  “This was a difficult decision but one that we feel is
best for the future of the Chiefs,” Chairman Clark Hunt said in
a  statement  on the team’s website. “We have not made meaningful
progress and we felt that it was necessary to make a change.”  Defensive coordinator Romeo Crennel, who was coach of the
 Cleveland Browns  from 2005 to 2008, will replace Haley on an
interim basis, ESPN reported. The Chiefs host the undefeated
 Green Bay Packers  on Dec. 18.  Todd Bowles, Miami’s assistant head coach and secondary
coach, will take over the team on an interim basis, Dolphins
Owner Stephen Ross said during a press conference on the team’s
website. The Dolphins next play at the  Buffalo Bills  on Dec. 18.  “It’s always a tough call when you try to replace a good
man, and Tony is really an excellent man,” Ross said. “He’s
put a total effort into this position, but South Florida wants a
winning team. I thought this would give us the opportunity to go
out and sign a head coach that could really lead us back.”  Bowles will have an opportunity to interview for the full-
time head coaching job after the season, Ross said.  Losing Start  Miami began the season with seven straight losses and won
four of its next five games before yesterday’s defeat to the
Eagles. Sparano leaves Miami with a 29-33 record in three-plus
seasons.  The Chiefs won the American Football Conference West
Division title last season and were 19-27 during Haley’s three-
year tenure.  In yesterday’s loss to the Jets at MetLife Stadium in  East
Rutherford ,  New Jersey , the Chiefs’ frustration showed. On one
drive,  Kansas City  amassed 81 yards in penalties, including an
unsportsmanlike conduct call against Haley.  Since losing starting quarterback Matt Cassel for the
season with a hand injury on Nov. 13, Kansas City has lost three
of four games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  