-- 
Chief Financial Officers See No U.S. Growth Pickup, Survey Says

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-12-12T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/chief-financial-officers-see-no-u-s-growth-pickup-survey-says.html
Chief financial officers in the U.S.
are less confident the recovery in the world’s largest economy
will accelerate in 2012 as government policy weighs on growth,
according to a  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  survey.  Forty-nine percent of finance heads projected the  U.S.
economy  will grow next year at about the same pace as this year,
according to the results of an annual poll taken by the second-
biggest  U.S. bank  by assets. Thirty-eight percent see a pickup,
down from 56 percent in last year’s survey and 66 percent a year
earlier. Respondents also rated the economy 44 out of 100, the
lowest since the survey began in 1998.  Regarding their own companies, 56 percent of chief
financial officers anticipated an increase in revenue next year,
down from 64 percent in 2011. Payrolls will probably expand at
46 percent of the companies in the survey, will remain about the
same at 48 percent and shrink at 7 percent, little changed from
last year’s poll.  “Many CFOs are hoping for more positive signs of
consistent economic stability and growth -- in the U.S. and
abroad,” Laura Whitley, head of Global Commercial Banking at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a statement. “While they
remain cautious, it is encouraging to see that reservations
about the economy won’t translate to reductions in the overall
workforce.”  Seven of every 10 chiefs surveyed said “the effectiveness
of U.S. government leaders” posed a risk to the economy next
year. Four other issues, including the budget  deficit , health-
care costs, unemployment and  consumer confidence  were a concern
to more than 50 percent of respondents, the survey showed, the
first time in the history of the poll that so many issues
received those levels of attention.  The survey, conducted between September and November,
includes responses from 600 CFOs, finance directors and other
executives randomly selected from U.S. companies with annual
revenue between $20 million and $2 billion. The margin of error
was 4 plus or minus percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  