-- 
China’s 150 Million Electric Bicycles Bolstering Lead Demand: Commodities

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-13T15:34:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/china-s-150-million-electric-bicycles-bolstering-lead-demand-commodities.html
The global glut in lead is falling
to a five-year low as  China , the biggest buyer, consumes a
record amount to make batteries for everything from cars to
emergency lighting to electric bicycles.  The supply surplus will drop to 8,000 metric tons in 2012
from 78,000 tons this year as China, which accounts for about 44
percent of global demand, uses 9.5 percent more, Morgan Stanley
estimates. Prices may rise as much as 19 percent to $2,500 a ton
next year, according to the median estimate of 18 producers,
analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg.  While lead slumped 18 percent this year amid mounting
investor concern that slower economic growth will sap the use of
raw materials, analysts and traders say prices will rally
because consumption is expanding. Demand will advance for a 10th
consecutive year in 2012, and for at least four more years after
that, Morgan Stanley predicts.  “Forty-five percent of demand is recession-proof,” said
Stephen Briggs, an analyst at BNP Paribas SA in London who has
been following the market for three decades. “Demand for
replacement batteries will continue at more or less the same
rate whether there is a recession or not a recession.”  Lead fell to $2,100.50 a ton on the London Metal Exchange
this year, heading for its first annual decline since 2008. That
compares with a 21 percent drop in the LMEX index of six
industrial metals. The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI  gauge of 24
commodities rose 3 percent, led by gasoil, gold and feed cattle.
The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities retreated 9.9
percent and Treasuries returned 9.2 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  700 Producers  About 80 percent of lead is used in batteries, according to
the International Lead and Zinc Study Group in Lisbon.
Production in China, the biggest exporter, may rise about 20
percent in 2012, according to the Beijing-based China Battery
Industry Association, which represents more than 700 producers.
That will use a total of about 3.3 million tons of lead.  Global supply of refined lead will advance 3.8 percent to
10.22 million tons next year, compared with a 4.6 percent gain
in consumption, Morgan Stanley estimates. Global production is
valued at almost $25 billion based on this year’s average price.  Chinese demand shored up consumption during the global
recession. Growth is now slowing after the central bank raised
 interest rates  three times and lifted the reserve-requirement
ratio six times this year to curb  inflation . Reserve
requirements were cut for the first time since 2008 on Dec. 5.
The economy will expand by 8.5 percent next year, from 9.2
percent in 2010, the median of 11 economist forecasts compiled
by Bloomberg show.  ‘Exponential Growth’  China’s manufacturing contracted for the first time since
February 2009 in November, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing reported Dec. 1. Export growth slowed to 13.8 percent
in November from a year earlier, the weakest pace since December
2009, according to data released by the customs bureau Dec. 10.
Import growth slowed to 22.1 percent.  “The time for an exponential growth of demand in China has
passed,” said Shi Lei, an analyst at Cofco Futures Co. in
Beijing. “Even if part of lead demand is inelastic during
economic downturns, it may still be hard to stand out when all
markets are under pressure.”  While the surplus is shrinking, stockpiles in warehouses
monitored by the  London  Metal Exchange rose 73 percent since the
start of January, reaching a record 388,500 tons on Oct. 14,
bourse data show. That’s equal to about two weeks of demand.  Shanghai Futures  Inventories are now starting to decline, retreating 7
percent since reaching the all-time high.  Canceled warrants , a
measure of how much metal is on order to be removed from
warehouses, touched 47,700 tons yesterday, the most since at
least 1997. Metal in warehouses tracked by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange has dropped in nine of the past 11 weeks, bourse data
show.  Manufacturing in China is expected to expand next year in
part because of revised environmental regulations that may be
announced by year-end. Restrictions were tightened after
hundreds of people were poisoned in Zhejiang and Guangdong
provinces in May and June. The government suspended output at
almost 90 percent of lead-acid battery makers in the past
several months, Cao Guoqing, deputy secretary general of the
China Battery Industry Association, said in an e-mail Nov. 15.  China will have 150 million electric bikes by 2015,
compared with 120 million in 2010, according to the association.
Each bike uses an average of 13 kilograms (28.7 pounds) of lead,
according to Brook Hunt, a research unit of Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  Commercial Vehicles  Global sales of cars and light commercial vehicles will
rise 6.5 percent to a record 79.5 million cars in 2012,
according to LMC Automotive Ltd., a research company in Oxford,
 England . China’s passenger-car sales will advance as much as 10
percent, according to estimates from General Motors Co.,
Volkswagen AG, Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co.  Higher lead prices should bolster profit for Melbourne-
based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest lead-mining company. It
will report a 2.5 percent drop in net income to $23.05 billion
this year, still the second-highest profit ever, according to
the mean of 19 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The picture seems to be moving from one of physical
surplus to one of physical scarcity,” said Nic Brown, head of
commodities research at Natixis Commodity Markets Ltd. in
London. “What has been a picture of very strong supply growth
in recent years may be beginning to tail off.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  