-- 
China Stock Slump to 3-Year Low Is Buy Signal

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-12T07:16:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/china-stocks-drop-to-3-year-low-is-buy-signal.html
The value of shares traded on
 Shanghai ’s  stock market (SHCOMP)  slumped to the lowest in three years on
Dec. 9, representing a bullish signal for China Merchants
Securities Co. and Central China Securities Co.  Shares worth 38.9 billion yuan ($6.11 billion) changed
hands on the  Shanghai Stock Exchange , the lowest value since
Dec. 31, 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. When the
daily trading value fell to that low on Dec. 31, 2008, the
Shanghai Composite Index surged 91 percent in the following
seven months, spurred by a 4 trillion-yuan government stimulus
package of building roads, bridges and airports.  Chinese equities have dropped for the past two years as the
central bank raised borrowing costs to tame inflation that’s
above the government’s target and  Europe ’s debt crisis boosted
concerns shipments to China’s biggest export market will slump.  “Low trading volume is one signal,” said Chen Wenzhao, a
strategist at China Merchants Securities in Shanghai, an
affiliate of China’s fifth-biggest bank. “More importantly,
we’ve seen a reversal of monetary policies and liquidity will
become better and better.”  China’s stocks may rebound in the first quarter next year
as the government loosens monetary policies to boost economic
growth, which help increase stock valuations, Chen said. The
Shanghai Composite’s 18 percent slump this year, following a 14
percent drop in 2010, has pushed down its estimated price
earnings to 10.9 times, compared with a six-year average of 18.3
times, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  Slowing Growth  China ’s exports rose 13.8 percent in November from a year
earlier, the customs bureau said over the weekend. Excluding
distortions in January and February each year, that was the
least since export growth resumed in December 2009. Industrial
output climbed 12.4 percent last month, the slowest pace since
August 2009, according to statistics bureau data on Dec. 9.  Nomura Holdings Inc. last week cut its estimate for China’s
economic growth next year to 7.9 percent from 8.6 percent,
citing slowing investment in private housing and weakening
external demand. The economy expanded 9.1 percent in the third
quarter, easing from a 9.5 percent growth rate a quarter
earlier.  “Technically speaking, trading values come ahead of index
prices,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities
in Shanghai. “When values are at a low, that means stocks are
going to hit a bottom soon. We are now in a situation where the
stock market is definitely approaching its bottom.”  The daily average turnover in 2011 has fallen 24 percent
from the average level over the past two years, Bloomberg data
showed. The Shanghai Composite retreated 1 percent to 2,291.55
at the close, the lowest since March 20, 2009.  Short-Term Buy  Low trade values may signal only a short-term buying
opportunity, said Luo Bin, who manages the equivalent of $60
million as general manager at Shanghai Mingyu Xiaoyang
Investment Management Co.  “It remains unknown how slow economic growth will be next
year and how the European debt problem will be resolved,” Luo
said.  A smaller  trade surplus  and signs that capital has started
to flow out of the country may encourage the ruling Communist
Party to add to a Nov. 30 cut in bank reserve requirements that
was the first since 2008. The Shanghai index may rise to as high
as 2,800 next year as commercial banks will be allowed to lend
more to bolster economic growth, Li said.  “Stocks are already around the bottom now,” said China
Merchants’ Chen.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  