-- 
Christie Says He Won’t Compromise on Ending Payouts for Unused Sick Time

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-12-12T19:21:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/christie-says-he-won-t-compromise-on-ending-payouts-for-unused-sick-time.html
New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he won’t compromise with Democratic lawmakers on his
proposal to prohibit government workers from getting paid for
unused sick time when they retire.  Christie said he won’t sign the measure unless it ends the
payouts. The first-term Republican vetoed a Democratic-sponsored
bill last year that would have capped the payments at $15,000. A
version with a $7,500 limit would cost taxpayers $3.25 billion
if all current state and local employees retired, Christie has
said.  Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Democrat from Wood-Ridge and a
sponsor of the bill, wants Christie to agree to a cap to
discourage employees from using up their sick time each year,
the  Associated Press  reported. Sarlo didn’t immediately return a
telephone call seeking comment on the measure.  “Everybody understands that sick time is for when you are
sick,” Christie, 49, told reporters today in Trenton. “Their
argument is people may use it otherwise in a fraudulent way,
therefore we have to pay them not to commit fraud.”  Municipalities have accumulated more than $825 million in
liabilities for unused sick and vacation days, which equates to
an additional $250 on average for every property owner in  New
Jersey , according to Christie’s office.  New Jersey municipalities including the two most-populous,
Newark and  Jersey City , had to borrow to make the payments after
cutting jobs to balance their budgets. Towns in the state paid
workers $43 million for unused sick and vacation time last year,
according to Christie’s office.  Christie said last week that more than 230 mayors,
Republicans and Democrats, back his proposal. He called on
lawmakers to approve it before the Jan. 9 end of the legislative
session.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  