-- 
Syrian Death Toll Mounts as Sanctions, Strike Tighten Squeeze on Economy

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 
2011-12-12T15:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/clashes-in-syria-leave-26-dead-as-economic-squeeze-tightens.html
Syrian army defectors clashed with
state security forces as activists staged a strike in a drive to
topple President Bashar al-Assad.  Security forces killed at least nine people today in Homs
and the northern province of Idlib, Rami Abdel Rahman of the
 Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said by phone from  London .
More than 76 people died in the previous three days, Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said in a
phone interview from Syria.  Heavy clashes between the army and defectors in the
southern province of Daraa, where the uprising against Assad
began nine months ago, were reported yesterday by the  Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights . At the same time, a strike and
international sanctions are increasing economic pressure on the
government.  “This appears as another attempt by the regime to push the
crackdown to a conclusion,” said  Chris Phillips , an analyst at
the Economist Intelligence Unit in London.  Most of the violence in recent days took place was in the
central city of Homs, the suburbs of the capital, Damascus, and
in Daraa, Merei said. Municipal elections today, part of what
the government describes as its reform efforts, are unlikely to
yield a turnout of more than 5 percent, he said.  Economic Cost  “The general strike took place in several Syrian cities
and has terrified the regime as the Hama governor threatened to
seal off the stores in the city and forces threatened to set
these stores on fire,” Ali Hassan, spokesman for the Syrian
Revolution Council, an opposition group, told  Al Arabiya  in an
interview.  Syria’s $60 billion economy, which grew 5.5 percent in
2010, may shrink 2 percent this year, the  International Monetary
Fund  said, while the  Institute of International Finance  said the
figure would be at least 5 percent. The government expects
growth of 1 percent, Finance Minister Mohammad Al-Jleilati said
in September.  “The economy is already in a very difficult position the
strike will worsen matters,” Phillips said. “Its main purpose
is more an attempt by the opposition to show their strength to
try to persuade other members who are sitting on the fence to
join them.”  Arab Leaders Ousted  The protests against Assad followed the ouster of leaders
in  Egypt  and  Tunisia .  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi was overthrown by
opposition forces backed by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, and Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh agreed
last month to resign in exchange for immunity from prosecution.  More than 5,000 people have been killed opposing the
government and the number of detainees has reached about 15,000,
according to the Syrian National Council, an opposition umbrella
group. The  United Nations  has said at least 4,000 people have
died.  The council said the UN is unable to prevent the government
from “killing its innocent citizens and shedding their blood in
front of the whole world,” according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday in which it called on other countries to intervene.  Arab League foreign ministers will discuss  Syria  in a Dec.
17 meeting at its Cairo headquarters, Egypt’s state-run Middle
East News Agency reported yesterday, citing an unidentified
diplomat.  The league on Dec. 3 ordered a freeze on the assets of 19
Syrian officials, a ban on their travel and a reduction in
flights to Syria if the government refuses to admit
international monitors and release political prisoners.  Foreign Investment Drops  Foreign direct investment in Arab states has fallen as much
as 24 percent this year as political unrest swept the region,
according to the  Arab Investment & Export Credit Guarantee
Corp. , which insures such funding against non-commercial risks.  Foreign financing will shrink to between $50 billion and
$55 billion in 2011 from $66.2 billion last year, the group said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , which supplies about 10 percent of
Syria’s natural gas, said yesterday it plans to withdraw
expatriate workers from the country and cancel supply contracts
following sanctions imposed by the European Union.  Gas operations with General Petroleum Corp. in Syria were
suspended, Calgary-based Suncor said in statement. Targets for
total production this year and next haven’t been adjusted, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  