-- 
Colombia Measure Ensures Military Impunity, Rights Group Says

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-12-12T17:24:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/colombia-measure-ensures-military-impunity-rights-group-says.html
A bill promoted by the government of
President  Juan Manuel Santos  to expand military jurisdiction
over cases of abuses by Colombian security forces would
“dramatically reverse” progress made in investigating human
rights violations,  Human Rights Watch  said.  “By virtually guaranteeing impunity for human rights
violations committed by the security forces, it could ultimately
expose  Colombia  to investigations by the  International Criminal
Court ,” the New York-based group’s America’s director, Jose Miguel Vivanco, said in a letter addressed to Santos and
released by e-mail.  Colombia Defense Minister Juan Carlos Pinzon said the bill,
which is being debated in Congress, would provide a “more
clear” legal framework for security forces fighting gangs, drug
traffickers and guerrillas and would not lead to impunity for
soldiers, according to a Nov. 24 statement on the army’s
 website .  He said civilian courts do not have the “specialized”
knowledge of military operations needed to judge the cases.  If the measure is passed, military courts would likely open
investigations into the so-called “false positives” scandal,
in which soldiers killed civilians and dressed them up as
guerrillas or members of other illegal armed groups to boost
their kill counts, Vivanco said.  The false positives are among cases of extrajudicial
killings of more than 3,000 victims that are being investigated
by Colombian civilian and military courts, according to a
February  report  by the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights.
The army has been accused of the bulk of the killings, the
report said.  The practice of false positives saw a “drastic reduction”
in 2010 under Santos, the U.N. report said, without giving
further details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  