-- 
Commodities Fall to Two-Week Low, Led by Metals, on Mounting European Woes

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-12-12T22:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/commodities-fall-to-two-week-low-led-by-metals-on-mounting-european-woes.html
Commodities  fell to a two-week low
on mounting concern that the European debt crisis will spread
after Moody’s Investors Service said it will review ratings for
countries in the region.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24  raw materials 
declined 1.3 percent to close at 638.93 at 3:44 p.m.  New York 
time, led by metals. Earlier, the gauge touched 636.8, the
lowest since Nov. 25. The measure has dropped 16 percent from a
32-month high in April.  “The market was anticipating a ‘bazooka’ response, and the
European meeting did not yield one,”  Scott Gardner , the chief
investment officer at Verdmont Capital SA in  Panama , said in an
e-mail. The dollar’s rally and slumping Chinese equities also
weighed on raw materials, he said.  Last week’s European Union summit offered few new measures
and doesn’t diminish the risk of credit-ranking revisions,
Moody’s said today.  The euro fell to a two-month low against the dollar, and
Chinese equities dropped to the cheapest in more than two years.
Gold futures tumbled to a six-week low, and copper slumped the
most in three weeks. Silver declined 3.9 percent, the biggest
slide among GSCI components.  “It appears to me to be a classic ‘risk-off’ day across
markets,” James Dailey, who manages $215 million of assets at
TEAM Financial Management LLC in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , said
in an e-mail. “It also looks like a deleveraging day, which has
been signified in the past by gold being caught up in aggressive
commodity selling.”  Cocoa Rebounds  Nineteen components in the GSCI index fell. The measure
pared losses after cocoa surged the most in two years, snapping
the longest slump in five decades.  Corn and wheat prices dropped on forecasts for rising
global grain supplies. Soybeans rebounded from a 14-month low on
concerns that adverse weather in  South America  may hurt crops.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on agricultural prices to the
lowest in two years on signs of expanding global supplies.  A  measure  of speculative positions across 11 products from
wheat to coffee to cattle fell 3.6 percent to 258,071 futures
and options in the week ended Dec. 6, government data show. That
was the lowest since September 2009.  The U.S. said on Dec. 9 that combined global inventories of
corn, soybeans and wheat will be 3.2 percent larger than
anticipated a month earlier.  Natural gas fell to the lowest in more than two years on
forecasts for normal to above-average temperatures in the
eastern U.S. through Dec. 22.  Cotton touched to a 15-month low on  Europe ’s fiscal woes.
Futures in New York dropped 3.6 percent, the second-biggest
decline among GSCI components, to 87.16 cents a pound.  “All commodity markets are worried about what’s going to
happen next in Europe,”  Sid Love , the president of Joe Kropf &
Sid Love Consulting Services in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , said in a
telephone interview.  This year, the fiber has tumbled 40 percent, the largest
decline among GSCI prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  