-- 
Cotton Tumbles to 15-Month Low on EU, Dollar; Orange Juice Drops

-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 
2011-12-12T20:37:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/cotton-tumbles-to-15-month-low-on-eu-dollar-orange-juice-drops.html
Cotton fell to a 15-month low after
European Union leaders failed to contain the region’s debt
crisis, while a rising dollar cut the appeal of commodities as
alternative assets.  Orange juice  also slid.  Global equities fell and the euro weakened as Moody’s
Investors Service said it will review ratings for EU countries
after leaders offered few new measures to stem the credit
turmoil during last week’s summit. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of 24 raw materials dropped as much as 1.6 percent, as the
dollar climbed against a basket of six counterparts.  “All commodity markets are worried about what’s going to
happen next in  Europe ,”  Sid Love , the president of Joe Kropf &
Sid Love Consulting Services in  Overland Park , Kansas, said in a
telephone interview. “The euro is down, and the dollar rose.
So, it’s going to be about outside markets, again.”  Cotton futures for March delivery dropped 3.6 percent to
settle at 87.16 cents a pound at 2:45 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York , the fourth straight decline. Earlier, the price
touched 87.06 cents, the lowest since September 2010. The fiber
has plunged 40 percent this year.  Orange-juice futures for January delivery slid 2.2 percent
to $1.6625 a pound on ICE, after touching $1.635, the lowest
level since Oct. 18. The price has fall for five straight
sessions, losing 6.8 percent.  On Dec. 9, the U.S. Department of Agriculture boosted its
estimate for this season’s crop in Florida, the world’s second-
biggest, by 2 percent because of bigger fruit size.  “Dollar strength and increased orange production estimates
for Florida” have put pressure on prices, Jack Scoville, a vice
president at Price Futures Group in  Chicago , said in an e-mailed
report.  Brazil is the top citrus grower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  