-- 
McQueary Story Changes, Paterno Injured, Patriot-News Reports

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-12-12T00:58:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/mcqueary-story-changes-paterno-injured-patriot-news-reports.html
Mike McQueary’s initial account of
an alleged attack by Jerry Sandusky on a boy in the showers at
Penn State University’s athletic department nine years ago
differed from what he told a grand jury,  the Patriot-News said .  Jonathan Dranov, a doctor and family friend, was present
the night McQueary told his father about the incident he said he
witnessed, the newspaper said.  According to an unidentified person with knowledge of
Dranov’s testimony to a grand jury, McQueary, a Penn State
football assistant coach, said he heard “sex sounds” and the
shower running. A young boy stuck his head out of the stall
before an adult arm reached around his waist and pulled him back
out of view. Sandusky, a former Penn State assistant coach,
emerged from the shower seconds later.  Dranov told grand jurors he asked McQueary three times if
he saw anything sexual, and three times McQueary said no, the
 Patriot-News said . Because of that response, Dranov told
McQueary he should talk to his boss, then-head football coach
 Joe Paterno , rather than police.  In a 2010 hand-written statement to investigators and in
the 23-page initial grand jury presentment, McQueary said he saw
Sandusky assaulting the boy, who stood with his hands against a
shower wall, the newspaper said. McQueary said the pair turned
and looked at him before he left, the Patriot-News reported.  Separately, the  Associated Press  reported that Paterno was
admitted to a hospital yesterday after he broke his pelvis in a
fall at his home.  Paterno, who will be 85 in 10 days, won’t require surgery,
the report said, citing an unidentified person close to the
family. Paterno, who is having chemotherapy and radiation for
 lung cancer , broke his pelvic bone in August, AP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 