-- 
Crude Oil Decreases on Moody’s Review of European Ratings, China Exports

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 
2011-12-12T20:54:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/crude-oil-declines-on-moody-s-review-of-european-ratings-china-exports.html
Oil fell to the lowest level in more
than two weeks as Moody’s Investors Service said it will review
the credit ratings of all European Union countries and  China ’s
 export growth  slowed to the weakest pace since 2009.  Crude dropped 1.7 percent after Moody’s said last week’s EU
summit failed to deliver “decisive policy measures” to end the
debt crisis. China’s exports rose 13.8 percent in November from
a year earlier, compared with 15.9 percent in October, the
customs bureau said Dec. 10.  “The Moody’s announcement really affects market
sentiment,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “There is a
pretty good chance that the global oil demand will be pretty
weak next year because of the European crisis and China.”  Crude for January delivery fell $1.64 to $97.77 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Nov. 25. Prices dropped 1.5 percent last week and are up 7
percent this year.  Brent oil for January settlement lost $1.36, or 1.3
percent, to $107.26 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Moody’s announcement came after Standard & Poor’s said last
week that it may strip Germany and France of AAA credit ratings
and put all 17 nations that use the euro on review for possible
downgrade.  The 27 member states of the EU accounted for 16 percent of
global oil demand last year, based on BP Plc’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy.  ‘Under Pressure’  “We expect prices to stay under pressure as long as macro
fears stay high,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities
research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “At the moment it’s
Europe, providing contagion that other countries will be dragged
into it, that’s keeping demand away. China’s growth may
disappoint if European jitters continue.”  China’s November export growth was the least since December
2009, excluding distortions in January and February each year,
customs data showed.  Exports to the European Union, China’s biggest market, rose
5 percent from a year earlier, a quarter of the pace reported in
July and August.  “The news from China is another indicator of the economic
weakness in Europe and it means China will use less oil,” said
 James Williams , an economist at WTRG Economics, an energy
research firm in  London ,  Arkansas .  Chinese Consumption  China consumed 9.06 million barrels a day of oil in 2010,
making it the second-largest user of crude after the U.S., at
19.1 million barrels a day, according to BP’s statistics review.  Oil’s loss also followed a stronger dollar and lower U.S.
stocks, Lynch said. A stronger U.S. currency reduces oil’s
appeal as an alternate investment.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
six major peers including the euro and the yen, rose 1.2
percent. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index fell 2.1 percent.  U.S. oil inventories probably dropped for the first time in
three weeks in the seven days ended Dec. 9 as refineries boosted
capacity, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Supplies shrank by 2.5 million barrels, or 0.7 percent, to
333.6 million last week, according to the  median estimate  of 10
analysts polled before a weekly Energy Department report on Dec.
14.  Iran’s Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said some OPEC members
should reduce output to accommodate the return of shipments from
 Libya  and increased Iraqi exports, according to a report
yesterday by the state-run Mehr news agency. The report came as
oil ministers from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries began arriving in Vienna before a Dec. 14 meeting.  Libya pumped 500,000 barrels a day in November, from a low
of 45,000 barrels in the midst of the rebellion against former
leader  Muammar Qaddafi , according to Bloomberg estimates.  OPEC Output  Eleven of OPEC’s 12 members, all except  Iraq , have formal
production targets. Iraq’s daily output last month reached 2.7
million barrels, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil exporter, will supply
full volumes of crude under term contracts to buyers in  Asia  and
 Europe  next month, according to refinery officials with
knowledge of the matter.  Hedge funds and other large speculators boosted net long
positions, or bets that prices will rise, by 4.1 percent to in
the week ended Dec. 6 to 202,735 futures and options combined,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report on Dec. 9.  Trading volume was 455,235 contracts as of 3:29 p.m. Volume
was 639,563 on Dec. 9, 2.5 percent below the three-month
average. Open interest was 1.32 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  