-- 
CVC’s Nine Entertainment Said to Propose Splitting $2.8 Billion of Debt

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-12-12T07:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/cvc-s-nine-said-to-ask-lenders-to-consider-debt-split-proposal.html
Nine Entertainment Co., the
Australian media company owned by CVC Asia Pacific Ltd., has
proposed splitting its A$2.8 billion ($2.8 billion) of debt into
two, according to three people familiar with the matter.  One part would be held by bank lenders and the other would
be debt owned by  hedge funds , said the people, asking not to be
identified as the details are private. Both would have their own
terms, one of the people said.  Nine Entertainment dropped a proposal last week that senior
lenders extend the debt to 2015. Nine scrapped the so-called
amend and extend plan after European banks sold their parts of
the loans to hedge funds which are seeking to take control of
the media company, the Australian Financial Review reported last
week.  “CVC has proactively commenced discussions with its
lenders regarding refinancing options,” CVC Asia Pacific’s
London-based parent, CVC Capital Partners Ltd., said in a Dec. 9
e-mailed statement. Nine’s “senior debt matures in February
2013 and there is no current requirement to refinance this debt
in advance” and the company “is not in breach of any of its
financial covenants or in default under any of its banking
agreements,” it said in the statement.  CVC Capital Partners  didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment on the proposal to split the debt in two
outside of normal business hours in  London . Nine Entertainment
spokeswoman Heidi Packer also wasn’t immediately available for
comment outside of normal business hours in Sydney.  Lenders have been asked to respond to CVC’s latest proposal
before Dec. 25, the person said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  