-- 
Dave Checketts Said to Join Goldman-Yankees Hospitality Venture as Chief

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-12-12T20:28:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/dave-checketts-said-to-join-goldman-yankees-hospitality-venture-as-chief.html
Dave Checketts, former  Madison
Square Garden (MSG)  president and St. Louis Blues owner, is in talks
to become chief executive officer of Legends Hospitality 
Management LLC, the concessions, merchandising and 
management-services company owned by the  New York Yankees , 
 Dallas  Cowboys and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , according to a 
person with direct knowledge of the talks.  The person was granted anonymity because the agreement
isn’t complete. Checketts declined to comment. Todd Fleming, a
spokesman for Legends, didn’t return a message left at his
office.  A group led by Checketts will take about a 16 percent stake
in the company, which was created in 2008, the person said. 
The Yankees, Major League Baseball’s most valuable team, and the 
Cowboys, the  National Football League ’s most valuable club according 
to Forbes annual rankings, each own 34 percent of Legends.  The 56-year-old Checketts, who is selling the National
Hockey League’s Blues, will acquire the Legends stake held by
CIC Partners, whose founding partner, Michael Rawlings, was
elected mayor of Dallas in June.  Legends last month acquired Conventions, Sports and Leisure
International, which specializes in financial analysis for
organizations planning to build or renovate sports facilities.  Sales and marketing clients for Newark, New Jersey-based
Legends include football’s  San Francisco  49ers and Tampa Bay
Buccaneers; basketball’s Charlotte Bobcats, Indiana Pacers,
Oklahoma City Thunder and Phoenix Suns; baseball’s San Diego
Padres; and college football’s Rose Bowl, according to the
company’s website.  Legends supplies concessions to Yankee Stadium and Cowboys
Stadium.  Yankees Success  The Yankees are the most successful team in  Major League
Baseball  history, having won 27  World Series . The Cowboys earned
the nickname “America’s Team” while winning five Super Bowls
with Hall of Fame players such as Roger Staubach, Tony Dorsett
and Troy Aikman.  Checketts ran MSG, putting him in charge of the New York
Knicks and Rangers, from 1994 to 2001. During his tenure,
hockey’s Rangers won the Stanley Cup, ending a 54-year drought.
The Knicks reached the NBA Finals in 1994 and 1999, losing both
times.  He also was in charge when the Knicks traded Hall of Fame
center Patrick Ewing to the Seattle SuperSonics in 2000,
ushering in a decade in which New York compiled a .399 winning
percentage.  Checketts resigned in a power struggle with James Dolan,
chief executive officer of Cablevision, which owned the teams at
the time. Cablevision said in 2009 that it was spinning off it
its MSG assets, including the sports teams and Radio City Music
Hall.  The Knicks had a 433-game regular-season sellout streak
from 1993-2002.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  