-- 
Deutsche Bank Risk Chief Says Breuer Didn’t Ask About Kirch Loan

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-12-12T16:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/deutsche-bank-risk-chief-says-breuer-didn-t-ask-about-kirch-loan.html
Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Risk Officer
Hugo Banziger told a German court he doesn’t remember discussing
the financial situation at  Leo Kirch ’s media group before
February 2002 with the bank’s then-chief executive  Rolf Breuer .  Banziger, who testified today at Breuer’s trial in Munich,
said Breuer never asked further questions about Kirch’s
situation mentioned in bank memos. While Breuer attended a 2001
meeting where Banziger, chief credit officer at the time, talked
about a loan to Kirch, Banziger said the briefing was mainly for
the supervisory board rather than executives.  “At that time, I rarely talked to Breuer and we mostly
discussed effects of the dot-com bubble,” said Banziger. “I
don’t remember that Kirch was an issue during these
conversations.”  Kirch, who died in July, was once one of  Germany ’s biggest
media tycoons and pursued civil lawsuits against Breuer and
Deutsche Bank seeking at least 3.3 billion euros ($4.4 billion).
The lawsuits, which are continuing after Kirch’s death, claim
his company failed after Breuer questioned its creditworthiness
in a 2002 Bloomberg TV interview.  The criminal trial centers on a 2003 appeals court hearing
in one of the Kirch suits where Breuer testified his TV-
interview comments were based on public information, not bank
data. Breuer said he “had never seen the Kirch credit file” at
the bank, nor correspondence with German financial regulators
concerning Kirch, according to the indictment.  Board Briefing  Prosecutors charged Breuer with attempted fraud, claiming
he lied to avoid a conviction and that his initials are on a
copy of a regulator’s September 2001 letter asking about risks
of the Kirch loan. They also cite the supervisory board briefing
by Banziger as evidence Breuer knew details about the loan.  Bernd Stuebing, a former Deutsche Bank credit analyst, told
the court earlier today that, while he didn’t have first-hand
knowledge, he assumed Breuer was continuously briefed about the
details on the loan.  “This was a prominent engagement and the management board
had overruled the credit committee’s vote against it, so it
seemed clear to me that it was closely watched by the top
executives,” said Stuebing. “My impression was that Breuer was
responsible and two other bank employees told me they briefed
him regularly.”  That contradicted testimony last week by former Deutsche
Bank Chief Counsel Hans-Dirk Krekeler, who said Breuer wasn’t
involved in the details of the loan and didn’t know specifics at
the time of the interview.  Munich prosecutors opened another probe against Breuer and
other Deutsche Bank managers, including current CEO  Josef Ackermann , earlier this year over testimony they gave in a
separate case pending at a Munich appeals court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Munich via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  