-- 
Diamond Foods Drops 23% After WSJ Report Walnut Growers Question Payments

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-12-12T21:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/diamond-falls-on-report-walnut-growers-question-payments-2-.html
Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND) , undergoing an
internal probe into whether money paid to walnut growers
violated accounting rules, plunged the most ever after the Wall
Street Journal reported that farmers questioned payments.  Diamond declined 23 percent to $31.30 at the close in  New
York  for the biggest drop since its initial public offering in
July 2005. The shares surged 53 percent on Dec. 9 after an
analyst at KeyBanc  Capital Markets  said the probe will conclude
quickly and won’t jeopardize the acquisition of Pringles from
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   Diamond faces shareholder lawsuits that claim the company
may have used payments to walnut growers to shift costs from the
fiscal year that ended July 31 into the current year, the
newspaper said.  The company has previously said payments to the growers in
September were an advance on their 2011 crop, the Journal
reported. Three growers told the company they didn’t intend to
deliver their 2011 crops to Diamond, and were still told they
could cash their checks, the newspaper said, citing interviews.
The three said Diamond told them checks were to top up payments
for their 2010 crops.  Paul Kranhold, a spokesman for Diamond, said the payments
were confidential and the company wouldn’t comment further.  ‘Rethink the Deal’  Last month, Diamond said that the probe would delay the
acquisition of Pringles potato chips from Procter & Gamble in a
deal valued at $2.35 billion.  “The Pringles business is doing pretty well and if these
issues continue P&G might not get the value they could be
getting for that asset,”  Louis Meyer , an analyst at Oscar Gruss
& Son in New York, said in a telephone interview. Meyer has a
“hold” rating on the shares.  Paul Fox, a spokesman for P&G, said in a telephone
interview that the company is “committed to the deal.”  The audit committee said it may conclude its investigation
by the middle of February, San Francisco-based Diamond said
today in a statement. As a result, the company will delay filing
its Form 10-Q for the fiscal first quarter beyond today’s
deadline.  “Today’s announcement from Diamond isn’t a surprise,” Fox
said.  On Nov. 23, Diamond shares tumbled after CNBC reported that
company director Joseph Silveira committed suicide Nov. 15.
Silveira had served on the  audit committee  and recused himself
from its investigation. He was 64.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  