-- 
Dish Network Seeks to Partner With T-Mobile USA If AT&T Acquisition Fails

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-12-12T21:53:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/dish-seeks-to-partner-with-t-mobile-if-at-t-acquisition-fails.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second
largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, may partner with  T-Mobile
USA  if AT&T Inc.’s takeover bid fails, Chief Executive Officer
Joseph Clayton said in an interview.  Dish, which acquired wireless spectrum earlier this year as
part of deals for bankrupt DBSD North America Inc. and Terrestar
Networks Inc., could merge the spectrum assets with T-Mobile or
another wireless company to create a strengthened competitor to
AT&T and  Verizon Wireless , said Clayton. T-Mobile needs
additional spectrum to offer higher-speed wireless service for
smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  One scenario is for Dish and a partner such as T-Mobile to
combine their wireless assets into a new company, Clayton said.
Dish could also team up with  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  or Clearwire
Corp., he said. Any deal would require approval from the  U.S.
Federal Communications Commission .  “We’re not interested in making money on selling our
spectrum,” said Clayton in the interview. “We want to use it
to create a national wireless network, video, voice and data.
We’ve got expertise in satellite-TV, and we will in satellite
broadband. The voice part, we’ll need some help with.”  Dish may buy assets from AT&T and T-Mobile if the companies
divest customers and spectrum to address regulatory concerns
over the merger, Clayton said. Dish has publicly opposed the T-
Mobile acquisition, saying it hurts competition.  “We feel if the AT&T-T-Mobile deal goes through, we win,”
he said. “If it doesn’t go through, we still win.”  Deal on Hold  Dish is still waiting for FCC approval to use the spectrum
it acquired this year and can’t make final plans until that
happens, Clayton said.  “We like our hand,” he said. “We just don’t know what
all the cards are yet. Until the FCC opines on our licenses and
on the AT&T-T-Mobile merger, it’s still somewhat cloudy.”  The U.S. Justice Department sued in August to block AT&T’s
proposed purchase on antitrust grounds. The agency and AT&T
agreed today to put the case on hold, as the Dallas-based
company considers “whether and how to revise our current
transaction to achieve the necessary regulatory approvals.”  Brad Burns , an AT&T spokesman,  declined (T)  to comment on
Clayton’s comments. Andreas Fuchs, a spokesman for T-Mobile USA
parent  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , said a deal with Dish isn’t being
considered.  “Deutsche Telekom is pursuing the AT&T deal,” he said.
“There is no plan B.,”  Dish fell 0.6 percent to $25.68 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 31 percent this year. AT&T declined 0.1
percent to $29.01 and has dropped 1.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  