-- 
Dish Network Works on Web TV Service in Expansion of Rivalry With Cable TV

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-12-12T21:20:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/dish-network-works-on-web-tv-service.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-TV provider, has the capability to offer
an online TV service that would expand competition with cable
companies, suggested Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton.  “There’s not a lot of infrastructure you have to put in
place for this,” Clayton said today in an interview. “The
expense is the programming.”  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , has the technology and
has held talks with television networks to showcase what an
online service could look like, according to a person with
knowledge of the discussions.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  is  set 
to offer an online video service in regions where its FiOS TV
isn’t available, Reuters reported last week.  “If Verizon can do it, why can’t we?,” Clayton said.
“Both of our companies buy a lot of content. That gives us some
leverage.”  Dish purchased the Blockbuster video chain out of
bankruptcy in April and offers an online film service that
streams movies under that name to its satellite customers. The
company plans to offer the service to others as well, according
to Clayton, who didn’t say when non-Dish customers would be able
to subscribe.  Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said that “all of us in the
video business are looking at streaming video” during a
November conference call.  Dish fell 0.6 percent to $25.68 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 31 percent this year.  Clayton said he was “happy” with Dish’s fourth-quarter
subscriber trends and that customer losses bottomed out this
summer. Dish lost 135,000 customers in the second quarter and
dropped 111,000 in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  