-- 
Dollar Declines Versus Yen Before Federal Reserve Announcement

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-12-13T15:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/dollar-trades-near-two-month-high-versus-euro-before-debt-auctions-today.html
The dollar declined against the yen
before the  Federal Reserve  holds a policy meeting today amid
speculation officials will maintain their pledge to keep
borrowing costs at almost a record low.  The 17-nation euro climbed from a two-month low against the
greenback after the European bailout fund held its first auction
of bills, attracting bids for more than three times the amount
of securities that it sold. The 17-nation currency erased
earlier losses versus the yen after a German report showed
investor confidence unexpectedly  increased  for the first time in
10 months. Currencies of commodity-exporting countries rose as
raw material prices increased.  “We’ve had the post-European Union summit reaction and the
market is beginning to turn its eyes to the Fed,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency sales desk at
Societe Generale SA in  New York . “As far as the euro is
concerned, it remains somewhat vulnerable and I’m continuing to
watch for its ability to hold its October lows.”  The dollar weakened 0.2 percent to 77.78 yen at 10:18 a.m.
New York time. The U.S. currency was little changed at $1.3182
per euro. The shared currency fell 0.2 percent to 102.51 yen.  Stocks, Commodities  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.1 percent and the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index  of raw materials rose 1.3
percent as crude oil topped $100 a barrel for the first time
since Dec. 8.  The dollar dropped 0.6 percent against the Australian
dollar to $1.0135 and weakened 0.9 percent versus the South
African rand to 8.2008 as investors sought higher-yielding
assets.  Implied volatility  for the currencies of the Group of Seven
nations dropped to 12.75 percent from a high this year of 15.77
percent, reached Sept. 22, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
index.  “There are increased illiquid markets through the year
end,” said  David Mann , regional head of research for the
Americas at Standard Chartered Plc. in New York. “A lot of
people that are staying on the sidelines until January.”  The cost for European banks to borrow in dollars rose to
the highest in two weeks, according to money-market indicators.  Funding Costs  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, was 128 basis points
below the euro interbank offered rate. It has widened by 19
basis points since Dec. 8, when  Europe ’s leaders met in Brussels
to address the region’s debt crisis.  South Korea ’s won slid the most against the dollar among
the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg on European debt
crisis concern. The won dropped 0.6 percent to 1,153.99 per
dollar, the lowest level since Nov. 28.  Fed policy makers will keep their target rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent at today’s gathering, according to a
Bloomberg News  survey .  The European Financial Stability Facility sold 1.97 billion
euros of 91-day bills at an average yield of 0.222 percent, the
Bundesbank said today. The sale was its first fund-raising since
European leaders agree on a closer fiscal accord and additional
resources to combat the region’s debt crisis at a summit in
Brussels last week.  German Economy  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance,
increased to minus 53.8 from a three-year low of minus 55.2 in
November. Economists forecast a drop to minus 55.8, according to
a Bloomberg News survey.  The euro earlier reached a two-month low against the yen
amid concern European nations will have their credit ratings
cut.  It has fallen 1.7 percent in the past month, the most among
10 developed-nation currencies, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has strengthened 3
percent, the best performance, and the yen has advanced 2.2
percent.  U.S.  retail sales  rose in November at the slowest pace in
five months, indicating faster job growth may be needed to spark
the biggest part of the economy.  The 0.2 percent gain in sales followed a 0.6 percent
advance in October that was more than initially reported,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
Economists projected a 0.6 percent November increase, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Purchases
excluding automobiles also rose 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  