-- 
Gasoline Slips After Moody’s Announces European Ratings Review

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-12-12T20:59:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/heating-oil-falls-as-moody-s-to-review-european-debt-ratings.html
Gasoline declined as Moody’s
Investors Service announced a review of debt ratings for
countries in the euro area, raising concern that the economy
will falter and reduce demand.  Futures fell as equities slid and the dollar surged after
Moody’s said last week’s European Union summit failed to yield
“decisive policy measures” to contain the debt crisis.
 Gasoline supplies  in the U.S. are at the highest level since
July, according to Energy Department data.  “The market is trading like Europe is going to collapse
tomorrow,” Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy
Management Institute in  New York , said by phone. “U.S.
macroeconomic data has been good for a month and it hasn’t made
a difference.”  Gasoline for January delivery fell 3.25 cents, or 1.3
percent, to settle at $2.5636 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , a one-week low. Gasoline has gained 4.5
percent in 2011.  The dollar gained 1.5 percent against the  euro  at 2:53 p.m.
in New York, reducing the investment appeal of commodities.  “Money is running back into the dollar again and pushing
all these commodities down,”  Michael Smith , president of T&K
Futures & Options in Port Saint Lucie,  Florida , said by phone.  Gasoline’s decline was part of a broader slide in
commodities. The S&P  GSCI Index  of 24 raw materials fell 1.2
percent at 2:54 p.m. in New York.  ‘Few New Measures’  The agreement by European leaders to boost a rescue fund by
$267 billion (200 billion euros) and tighten rules to curb
future debts “offers few new measures,” Moody’s said today in
an e-mailed statement.  “The market’s concern is that the result of this agreement
will be less spending and more austerity, which will have a
slowing effect on the economy,”  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston, said by phone.  Fitch Ratings , saying the summit did little to ease
pressure on struggling governments, forecast a “significant
economic downturn across the region.”  The Energy Department may report on Dec. 14 that gasoline
supplies rose 1 million barrels last week, according to the
median estimate of 10 analysts in a survey by Bloomberg News.
Stockpiles in the week ended Dec. 2 jumped 5.15 million barrels
to 215 million, the biggest increase since Jan. 28. Demand, or
 deliveries  to wholesalers, slipped 2.2 percent.  Distillate Inventories  Inventories of distillate fuel, including heating oil and
diesel, probably gained 1 million barrels last week, according
to the survey. Stockpiles  rose  2.53 million barrels in the week
ended Dec. 2 to 141 million, a five-week high, as production
climbed to a record for the second straight week.  January-delivery heating oil fell 1.64 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $2.8961 a gallon on the exchange. It was
the fourth consecutive decline. Prices are up 14 percent this
year.  About half of U.S. diesel and heating oil exports in
September went to  Europe , Energy Department data show. A weaker
Europe threatens demand for diesel.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.5
cent to $3.274 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  