-- 
ECB Firepower Needed to Quell Debt Crisis, OECD’s Elmeskov Says

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-12-12T15:22:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/ecb-firepower-needed-to-quell-debt-crisis-oecd-s-elmeskov-says.html
The  European Central Bank  needs to
provide more support to ease the euro area’s sovereign debt
crisis, said Joergen Elmeskov, the acting head of the Economics
Department at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  “The kinds of things we have seen do not add up yet to
what one would call overwhelming firepower,” Elmeskov said
today in an interview in Oslo. “It’s difficult for us to see
such overwhelming firepower being assembled without to some
degree making use of the ECB’s balance sheet.”  European Union leaders last week committed to tightening
new fiscal rules, providing an additional 200 billion euros
($267 billion) to the euro war chest, and speeding up the
establishment of a permanent rescue fund next year. The Franco-
German-led agreement is part of an effort to reassure investors
that  Europe  can master the crisis.  The accord opens the way for the ECB to intensify its role
in the crisis, Irish Deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore  said in
an interview with Dublin-based broadcaster RTE yesterday. The
ECB has signaled “that it would strengthen its role and enhance
its role following the conclusion of an agreement,” he said.  Germany  and the ECB have resisted calls for an expansion of
the central bank’s bond-buying program. ECB President  Mario Draghi  last week denied hinting that the ECB would automatically
support such an accord with more bond purchases.  European leaders have given themselves until March to
complete the language for the new rulebook and plan to set up
the region’s permanent rescue fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, a year earlier than planned in 2012. They also aim to
reassess plans to cap the overall lending of the ESM at 500
billion euros.  “It is certainly a step in the right direction,” Elmeskov
said. “What has happened over the weekend is useful in terms of
setting out the future fiscal framework in greater clarity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  