-- 
EDF Said to Be Ready to Force Sale of Edison Stake as Talks Reach Impasse

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-12-12T23:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/edf-said-to-be-ready-to-force-sale-of-edison-stake-as-talks-reach-impasse.html
Electricite de France SA (EDF)  is ready to
force the sale of a stake in utility  Edison SpA (EDN)  it jointly owns
with Italian investors after talks on unwinding the partnership
stalled, people with knowledge of the matter said.  By triggering a sale, EDF may be able to buy most of the
stake itself, the people said, declining to be named because the
talks are private. The Paris-based company has been reluctant to
take this route because it risks losing the goodwill of Italian
politicians, one of the people said.  Now, EDF is concerned that continued delays in finding an
agreement are hurting Edison by not giving it a clear strategy
to face economic slowdown, debt repayments and renegotiation of
gas supply contracts, according to the people. This exposes
Edison to a possible ratings downgrade and has prompted EDF to
consider the forced auction as a possible solution, they said.  Paris-based EDF and a group of Italian shareholders led by
utility  A2A SpA (A2A)  own 61 percent of Edison through a company
called Transalpina di Energia. The companies have given
themselves until Dec. 30 to close the deal after reaching a
preliminary agreement in October that ceded Edison ownership to
EDF in exchange for a  put option  on the Italians’ shares and the
division of Edison’s power plants.  If the deadline passes without a deal, Transalpina’s
shareholder agreement will lapse leading to auction of its
assets. An Edison press officer declined to comment. An EDF
spokeswoman declined to comment.  Veto Power  Talks have stalled over EDF’s refusal to give the Italians
veto power on future capital increases, and disagreements about
how much debt each investor will take on, A2A SpA Chairman
Giuliano Zuccoli told Italian newspaper  Il Sole 24 Ore 
yesterday. Zuccoli, whose company leads Italian shareholders,
added that the Dec. 30 deadline may be put off slightly.  While EDF would prefer to avoid antagonizing its Italian
partners with an auction that would annul all previous
negotiations, it has indicated readiness to do so should the
current impasse continue, the people said. The French company
has been trying to buy Edison in order to get access to gas
assets and markets in southeast  Europe .  Edison has a market value of 4.1 billion euros ($5.4
billion). In October, the company reported a nine-month net loss
of 93 million euros, compared with a 179-million euro profit
last year.  Last week Standard & Poor’s cut Edison’s credit ratings to
“BBB-/A-3” from “BBB/A-2” with  “negative” outlook citing
weakened profitability and inability of shareholders to reach an
accord over ownership. The same week Moody’s Investors Service
also placed Edison’s “Baa3” rating on review for a possible
downgrade.  Pending Decision  Another issue hanging over negotiations is a pending
decision by Italy’s stock market regulator on whether EDF has to
make a mandatory share offer for outstanding Edison shares. EDF
Chief Financial Officer Thomas Piquemal told an investor
conference in November that the takeover talks could collapse if
regulators forced the company to pay above the current market
price.  EDF owns 20 percent of Edison directly and a further 30
percent through Transalpina di Energia. A2A and its partners own
30 percent through Transalpina.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net 
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  