-- 
Lehman Said to Prepare $1.33 Billion Bid for Archstone Stake

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-12-12T21:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/lehman-brothers-is-said-to-prepare-1-3-billion-bid-for-stake-in-archstone.html
Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc., which
has approval for a $65 billion bankruptcy liquidation plan, will
ask a judge to let it use $1.33 billion of the estate’s money to
increase its stake in Archstone, its biggest real estate asset,
according to a person familiar with the planned bid.  Equity Residential, founded by billionaire Chairman  Sam Zell , said on Dec. 2 that it had offered  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  $1.33 billion for 26.5 percent of Archstone, or
half of their stake.  Lehman, which owns 47 percent of Archstone and must inform
the banks this week that it will match the Zell company’s offer,
will tell the judge the investment is needed to protect the
estate’s interest in the company, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the discussions are private.  The purchase would be the first step in a Lehman plan to
gain control of Englewood, Colorado-based Archstone, an owner of
apartment developments across the U.S. and in Germany. The
defunct securities firm seeks to sell or liquidate Archstone for
at least $6 billion, according to another person with knowledge
of the plan.  Financing Talks  Lehman’s strategy depends on taking over Archstone, said
that person, who declined to be named because the money-raising
efforts are private. Lehman, which has been in discussions with
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Brookfield Asset Management Inc. to try
and raise funds, also is talking with pensions and sovereign
wealth funds, said a third person familiar with the plan who
asked not to be identified because the negotiations are private.  Lehman has until Dec. 15 to notify the banks it will
exercise its right to match Equity Residential’s offer, then
until Dec. 25 to file a motion with the court and until Jan. 24
to get court approval for its purchase, two people with
knowledge of the timetable said. Lehman also must obtain
financing by the January deadline, said one of the other people.  Lehman, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history
in 2008, along with its affiliates has about $23 billion of
available cash, according to court papers.  Lehman has said in regulatory filings that Archstone is
worth “at least” $1 billion more than the $5 billion equity
value portrayed by the  Equity Residential (EQR)  offer. Apartment rents
and property values are rising as the national vacancy rate fell
to a five-year low in the third quarter, according to Reis Inc.  Archstone Management  “Lehman believes that the EQR purchase price does not take
into consideration the value of Archstone’s platform, including
its management, which Lehman believes is the best in the
industry, nor does it take into account Archstone’s valuable
strategic position within the apartment industry,” the bankrupt
firm said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission last week.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, declined to
comment on the firm’s plans for Archstone. Kerrie McHugh, a
spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America,
also declined to comment. Zell and Michael O’Looney, a spokesman
for London-based Barclays, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking
comment.  Tag-along Right  In addition to being able to match purchase offers, Lehman
also has the right to sell part of its stake on a pro-rata basis
along with Bank of America and Barclays, a so-called tag-along
right, according to last week’s SEC filing. Bank of America owns
28 percent of Archstone and Barclays holds 25 percent.  As of Sept. 30, Archstone had stakes in about 428 apartment
complexes with about 74,000 units, including some under
construction, according to the company. The total comprises 179
properties with about 60,000 units in the U.S. and 249 sites
with about 14,000 units in  Germany .  Moody’s Investors Service said last week that it revised
its rating outlook for about $4 billion of securities of Equity
Residential and its debt-issuing unit ERP Operating LP from
stable to developing.  Moody’s, based in  New York , said Equity Residential’s
acquisition of the Archstone stake could require a
disproportionate share of management’s attention because of the
complexity of the ownership structure.  Equity Residential, based in  Chicago , may also get a
negative outlook on the rating, indicating a potential rating
cut from Baa2 on its preferred shares and from Baa1 on senior
unsecured debt at ERP Operating if the acquisition is
permanently leveraged, Moody’s said in a statement.  Leveraged Buyout  Archstone was acquired by Lehman in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP in 2007. Lehman, which
is selling some assets and buttressing others for a future sale,
fetched $3.9 billion through June 30 from property sales,
according to court papers. Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal 
has said real estate sales will continue through 2014.  The cash bid for the Archstone stake was reported late
yesterday by the Wall Street Journal.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  