-- 
Lehman Said to Prepare $1.3 Billion Bid for Archstone Stake

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-12T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/lehman-plan-use-of-1-3b-for-archstone-purchase.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which
has approval for a $65 billion bankruptcy liquidation plan, will
ask a judge to let it use $1.3 billion of the estate’s money to
increase its stake in Archstone, its biggest real estate asset,
according to a person familiar with the planned bid.  Equity Residential, founded by Sam Zell, said on Dec. 2
that it had offered  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
$1.3 billion for 26.5 percent of Archstone, or about half of
their stake.  Lehman, which currently owns 47 percent of Archstone and
has an option to inform the banks this week that it will match
the Zell company’s offer, will tell the judge the investment is
needed to protect the estate’s interest in the company, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the discussions
are private.  The purchase would be the first step in a Lehman plan to
gain control of Archstone, an owner of apartment developments.
The defunct securities firm seeks to sell or liquidate Archstone
for at least $6 billion, according to another person familiar
with the plan.  Lehman’s strategy depends on taking over Archstone, said
that person, who declined to be named because the money-raising
efforts are private. Lehman had been seeking to raise money in
talks with investors including Blackstone Group LP and
Brookfield Asset Management Inc., said a third person familiar
with the plan who asked not to be identified because the
negotiations are private.  Biggest Bankruptcy  Lehman, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history
in 2008, along with its affiliates has about $23 billion of
available cash, according to court papers.  Lehman has said in regulatory filings that Archstone is
worth “at least” $1 billion more than the $5 billion equity
value portrayed by the  Equity Residential (EQR)  offer.  “Lehman believes that the EQR purchase price does not take
into consideration the value of Archstone’s platform, including
its management, which Lehman believes is the best in the
industry, nor does it take into account Archstone’s valuable
strategic position within the apartment industry,” the bankrupt
firm said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, declined to
immediately comment on the firm’s plans for Archstone. Zell and
Michael O’Looney, a spokesman for London-based Barclays, didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment. Jerry Dubrowski,
a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America,
didn’t immediately respond to a call seeking comment after
normal business hours.  Leveraged Buyout  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from Washington
and  New York  to  San Francisco .  Lehman, which is selling some assets and buttressing others
for a future sale, fetched $3.9 billion through June 30 from
property sales, according to court papers. Chief Executive
Officer  Bryan Marsal  has said real estate sales will continue
through 2014.  The cash bid for the Archstone stake was reported earlier
by the Wall Street Journal.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 