-- 
Emerging Stocks Fall on Moody’s Ratings Review, Growth Worries

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-12-12T22:09:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/emerging-market-stocks-fall-on-bundesbank-ecb-comments-china-export-data.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
third day after Moody’s Investors Service said it will review
ratings for European countries and data from  China  to  Brazil 
highlighted concerns about weakening growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 1 percent to 924.91
at the close in New York, with 433 stocks retreating versus 298
advancing. The decline brought the three-day drop to 3.6
percent. The  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  declined 1.5 percent as concern
mounted that Brazil’s economy may falter. The  Sensex Index (SENSEX) 
dropped 2.1 percent in Mumbai after Indian industrial production
fell for the first time since June 2009. China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell to the lowest since March 2009 as data
showed exports rose by the least in two years.  Last week’s European Union summit offered few new measures
and doesn’t diminish the risk of credit-ranking revisions,
Moody’s said today. Chinese customs data showed overseas
shipments rose 13.8 percent in November from a year earlier.
Excluding distortions in January and February each year, that
was the least since export growth resumed in December 2009.  “Sensitivity around  emerging markets ’ growth patterns has
picked up,”  Nick Chamie , global head of emerging markets at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Toronto, said by phone. “The deterioration
in emerging markets growth indicators will deepen over the next
two to three months and that will keep the emerging market
growth slowdown in focus.”  Brazil Growth,  India  Production  Economists cut their forecast for Brazil’s 2012 gross
domestic product expansion for a third straight week, to 3.4
percent from 3.48 percent previously, according to the weekly
central bank survey published today. They also lowered their
projection for  interest rates  next year to 9.5 percent from 9.75
percent.  State-controlled oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  and
miner  Vale SA (VALE5) , the index’s heaviest-weighted companies, followed
crude and metals prices lower. Cyrela Brazil Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes, Brazil’s second-biggest
homebuilder by revenue, paced declines for companies that depend
on domestic demand, falling 2 percent.  Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s biggest company by market
value, slid 3.7 percent in Mumbai.  Production at Indian factories, utilities and mines fell
5.1 percent from a year earlier in October, the government
reported today. The slide exceeded the median of 24 estimates in
a Bloomberg survey for a 0.7 percent drop. Output was down 3.3
percent from September, the third decline in four months.  Ultrabooks Boost Samsung  All 30 stocks on the Micex declined as the Russian index
plunged to a two-month low.  OAO Sberbank ,  Russia ’s biggest
lender, dropped 3.1 percent in Moscow. OAO Lukoil fell 1.5
percent.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  fell 2.6 percent in Istanbul.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained 1.3 percent.  Samsung SDI
Co.  rose 6.8 percent on speculation earnings will improve in
2012, helped by an expected increase in demand for lightweight
Ultrabook laptops, said Kim Byung Ki, an analyst with Kiwoom
Securities.  Twenty-three of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg depreciated against the dollar. The  Hungarian forint 
lost 2.9 percent and the Brazilian real slid 2.5 percent.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 409, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  