-- 
Emerging Stocks Snap Two-Day Slump on Europe, Chinese Policy Speculation

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-12-12T05:03:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/emerging-stocks-snap-two-day-slump-on-europe-chinese-policy-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in three days as speculation European leaders will
resolve the region’s debt crisis and  China  will loosen its
monetary policies bolstered the outlook for the global economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 0.6 percent to
939.47 at 12:59 p.m. Singapore time, snapping a two-day, 2.6
percent drop. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  jumped 1.9
percent in Hong Kong, while Korea’s  Kospi index (KOSPI)  and Taiwan’s
 Taiex index (TWSE)  increased at least 0.6 percent. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.5 percent.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said yesterday
euro-area policy makers will now focus on implementing a Dec. 9
accord that provides tighter budget rules and boosts their
crisis-fighting war chest by as much as 200 billion euros ($267
billion). Chinese data showing a smaller trade surplus and the
weakest export growth since 2009 may encourage Chinese policy
makers to add to a Nov. 30 cut in bank reserve requirements.  “There are some increasing prospects of resolution in
 Europe ,” Nigel Tupper, Asia Pacific strategist at Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, said in a Bloomberg
Television in  Hong Kong . “The Chinese trade surplus numbers are
weaker. That’s just indicative of the global economy slowing
down. But on the other side, that allows governments to respond
with policy.”  Speculation mounted that China will ease monetary policies
after customs data on Dec. 10 showed overseas shipments rose
13.8 percent in November from a year earlier. Excluding
distortions in January and February each year, that was the
least since export growth resumed in December 2009. The excess
of exports over imports fell by 35 percent, the data showed.  China Easing Outlook  “China’s capital outflows will continue and the trade
surplus may shrink further, forcing the central bank to cut
reserve ratios” and use bill sales to inject liquidity and
bolster growth, said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist
at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  A gauge of technology shares in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index rose 1.4 percent, the most among 10 industry groups.
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  climbed 2.8 percent, heading for a
record high level in Seoul. The company said yesterday its
mobile-phone handset sales this year reached all-time high of
300 million units.  Emerging-market stocks also rose as data on Dec. 9 showed
confidence among U.S. consumers jumped in December to a six-
month high. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment climbed to 67.7 from a
final November reading of 64.1. The gauge was projected to rise
to 65.8, according to the median economist forecast in a
Bloomberg News.  Wind Power Stocks  Today’s gains for MSCI’s developing-nation index pared this
year’s losses to 18 percent. Companies in the index trade at
10.2 times estimated earnings, less than the four-year average
multiple of 12.2, according to Bloomberg data.  Samsung SDI Co. , the best performer in the developing gauge
today, rose as much as 6.8 percent on speculation earnings will
improve in 2012, helped by an expected increase in demand for
lightweight Ultrabook laptops, said Kim Byung Ki, an analyst
with Kiwoom Securities.  China Longyuan Power Group Corp. (916)  gained the most in two
months in Hong Kong. Citigroup Inc. rates Longyuan a “buy,”
saying the mainland’s wind power industry is the beneficiary of
a “positive surprise” at climate talks in Durban,  South
Africa . China, the world’s biggest emitter of fossil fuel, and
India agreed yesterday to limit their emissions.  Huaneng Renewables Corp.  increased 3.4 percent, while  China
Datang Corp. Renewable Power Co. (1798)  advanced 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  