-- 
Jonny Wilkinson Brings End to Record Setting 13-Year England Rugby Career

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-12-13T03:25:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/england-rugby-s-jonny-wilkinson-retires-from-national-team-after-world-cup.html
Jonny Wilkinson , whose drop goal
sealed England’s 2003 Rugby World Cup title, retired from the
international game after a 13-year career in which he scored
more points for his country than any other player.  Fly-half Wilkinson, 32, amassed 1,179 points for England in
91 games and played in four World Cups, appearing in two finals.
His drop goal 17 seconds from the end of extra time gave England
a 20-17 win over  Australia  in the title match eight years ago.  Even though his career was disrupted by injuries, Wilkinson
set national records for the most conversions (162) and penalty
goals (239). He also kicked a world best 36 drop goals for
 England  after making his Test debut in 1998.  “I have gone as far as I can go with this England team,”
Wilkinson said on his  website  yesterday. “The time is right for
others to enjoy the same honor and pride that I have felt over
the past 15 seasons and beyond.”  Wilkinson, who also played six international matches for
the British and Irish Lions, will continue to play for French
club Toulon, where he has a contract until 2013.  The 5-foot-10, 200-pound Wilkinson has suffered 13
different injuries during his career, according to the Rugby
Football Union. He didn’t appear for England for more than three
years after the 2003  World Cup  final as he struggled with a
lacerated kidney and shoulder, arm, neck and knee problems.  Four World Cups  Wilkinson recovered to help England reach the 2007 World
Cup final, which  South Africa  won 15-6. He appeared at rugby’s
quadrennial championship for the fourth time this year in New
Zealand, where England lost in the quarterfinals to eventual
runner-up  France .  “To have played through four World Cups, two Lions tours,
91 international games and a ridiculous number of injuries and
other setbacks gives me an incredibly special feeling of
fulfillment,” Wilkinson added. “But by now I know myself well
enough to know that I will never truly be satisfied.”  Wilkinson is second to  New Zealand ’s  Dan Carter  on the all-
time Test points scoring list with 1,246, having also amassed 67
international points for the Lions.  He scored a record  277 points  at World Cups, 50 more than
his nearest rival. Only 28 of those points came at the 2011
tournament as Wilkinson missed nearly two-thirds of his penalty
goal attempts.  Since the 2011 World Cup finished Oct. 23,  Steve Thompson 
and  Lewis Moody  have also retired from international rugby,
leaving Simon Shaw and  Mike Tindall  as the only members of
England’s 2003 squad still available for selection.  ‘Real Role Model’  Clive Woodward, who coached England to the World Cup title,
said Wilkinson combined a desire to be the best fly-half in the
world with a “fantastic team ethic.”  “He was a real role model,” Woodward told  Sky News . “I
admired how he went about his business and how much work he did
when no-one was around. He took his game to a whole new level.”  England interim head coach Stuart Lancaster said Wilkinson
ranked as “one of England’s greatest ever players” who had
inspired thousands to play and watch the game.  “He will of course be remembered for that drop goal,”
Lancaster said in an e-mailed statement. “But he is more than
that, a model sportsman, down-to-earth and hard working, who has
never stopped trying to be the best that he can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  