-- 
Sinopec, ENN Energy Offer $2 Billion in Cash for China Gas

-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 
2011-12-13T11:14:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/enn-china-petroleum-offer-2-billion-in-cash-to-gain-control-of-china-gas.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
known as Sinopec, and  ENN Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688)  offered HK$15.3
billion ($2 billion) in cash for  China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384)  to gain
control of a fuel-distribution network covering 20 provinces.  ENN and Sinopec,  Asia ’s biggest refiner, bid HK$3.50 a
share for the Hong Kong-based company that supplies piped gas to
the mainland, the companies said today in a statement. The offer
is 25 percent more than China Gas’s last close.  Buying China Gas will give the companies access to its 6.6
million residential customers and 41,981 industrial and
commercial users in the world’s second-biggest economy. China
Gas last month reported a fourfold gain in first-half profit and
said it had been approached by an investor after the arrest of
two senior executives caused the stock to slump this year.  “China Gas’s stock has been undervalued for a long while,
so both investors are really getting on board at the right
time,” said Shi Yan, a Shanghai-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian
Ltd. “ENN has always wanted to expand its utility network and
Sinopec has been looking to diversify its business from over-
reliance on refining.”  China Gas closed up 20 percent at HK$3.37 in Hong Kong. ENN
declined 2.6 percent to HK$26.40, after sliding as much as 7.8
percent. Sinopec dropped 0.4 percent to HK$8.03. The benchmark
 Hang Seng Index (HSI)  declined 0.7 percent.  ENN, the fourth-largest Hong Kong-listed gas supplier, will
fund 55 percent of the deal, while Sinopec will cover the rest
of the financing, the statement said.  Deal Valuation  The offer is priced at 11.29 times earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization, compared with 10.95 times in
10 comparable deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today’s bid follows China Petrochemical Corp’s agreement
yesterday to invest an estimated $1 billion to increase its
stake in an Australian liquefied natural gas project led by
ConocoPhillips and Origin Energy Ltd. It takes the number of
energy deals by Chinese and Hong Kong-based companies to 279
this year worth $43 billion, compared with last year’s record
367 deals valued at $59.6 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China  Gas said Nov. 14 an independent investor was keen to
buy a “substantial stake.” The distributor also runs 112
compressed natural gas filling stations and 44 liquefied
petroleum gas distribution projects.  Citigroup Inc. was named adviser to the bidders, according
to the statement. The bank is providing a so-called bridge loan
to ENN, according to a joint statement released today in Hong
Kong by Sinopec and ENN. A bridge loan is a short-term loan that
is usually replaced by longer-term financing.  Citigroup may sell part of the loan it provided Sinopec and
ENN for the bid, two people familiar with the matter said. A
decision on whether to syndicate the facility hasn’t yet been
made, one of the people said, asking not to be identified
because the details are private.  Negative Watch  “The acquisition increases ENN’s net indebtedness, while
providing limited incremental cash flows to ENN in the short-to-
medium term,”  Fitch Ratings  (Beijing) Ltd. said in a statement,
adding that it may result in a one-notch cut to ENN’s rating to
BBB minus.  Moody’s Investors Service placed ENN on review for possible
downgrade today and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services placed
ENN on credit watch with negative implications.  ENN had cash and cash equivalents of 5.7 billion  yuan  ($896
million) as of June 30 and debt of 9.8 billion yuan, the company
said Sept. 2. ENN plans to sell 1.3 billion yuan of short-term
bonds to pay bank loans and raise working capital, it said in a
statement on Dec. 9 on Chinamoney.com.cn, a website of the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  ENN will issue the one-year bonds on Dec. 16, and half of
the proceeds will be used to pay loans and the rest for fuel
purchases, the statement said.  Embezzlement  Two China Gas officials were detained by Shenzhen police
last December for suspected embezzlement of assets. China Gas
removed the men from its board and dismissed one of them.  On Nov. 11,  Apple Daily  said the former executives were out
on bail. China Gas said Nov. 14 it had received no confirmation
on the reported release from mainland judicial authorities, and
had instructed its lawyers to gather more information on the
matter.  The company’s net income increased to HK$374 million in the
six months ended Sept. 30, from HK$93 million a year earlier, as
demand from residential and industrial users rose, China Gas
said Nov. 29.  China Gas shares have pared declines since falling to a low
of HK$1.63 on Oct. 4. They closed at HK$2.80 on Dec. 6.  ENN, based in  Hebei province  in northern China, operates
100 city piped gas projects on the mainland, supplying 6.1
million households and 21,146 industrial and commercial users,
according to its interim report released Sept. 2.  China’s natural-gas consumption is forecast to increase as
the government boosts the fuel’s share to 10 percent of total
energy demand by 2020 from 4 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guo Aibing in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  