-- 
ENN, China Petroleum to Make Cash Offer for China Gas

-- B y   P a u l   G o r d o n   a n d   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 
2011-12-13T00:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/enn-china-national-petroleum-to-make-all-cash-buyout-offer-for-china-gas.html
(Corrects company name to China Petroleum in headline and
first paragraph.)  ENN Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688)  and  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  will make an all-cash buyout offer
for  China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384)  as they seek to purchase a
controlling stake, the target company said.  China Gas, a piped-gas supplier on the mainland, hasn’t yet
held talks with the ENN-led group on the offer’s detailed terms,
which weren’t included in two letters sent to the company,
according to a  Hong Kong  stock exchange filing yesterday
evening. China Gas will resume trading in Hong Kong today.  China Gas last month reported a fourfold increase in first-
half profit and said it had been approached by an investor,
after the arrest of two senior executives caused the stock to
slump by as much as 52 percent this year. ENN, the fourth-
largest Hong Kong-listed gas supplier, plans to expand its
distribution network in the second-largest economy.  “The synergy is pretty good,”  Michael Parker , a Hong
Kong-based senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said
before the deal was announced. “There’s shared infrastructure
that would benefit from having two franchises that are
geographically close together.”  China Gas, which operates 151 city piped gas projects, said
Nov. 14 an independent investor was keen to buy a “substantial
stake” in the Hong Kong-based company. The distributor also
runs 112 compressed natural gas filling stations and 44
liquefied petroleum gas distribution projects.  Embezzlement Woes  Two company officials were detained by Shenzhen police last
December for suspected embezzlement of assets. China Gas removed
the men from its board and dismissed one of them.  On Nov. 11, Apple Daily said the former executives were out
on bail.  China  Gas said Nov. 14 it had received no confirmation
on the reported release from mainland judicial authorities, and
had instructed its lawyers to gather more information on the
matter. Chairwoman Cynthia Wong couldn’t be reached at her
office by phone for comment Dec. 7.  The company’s net income increased to HK$374 million ($48
million) in the six months ended Sept. 30, from HK$93 million a
year earlier, as demand from residential and industrial users
rose, China Gas said Nov. 29.  The stock has pared its losses since falling to a low of
HK$1.63 on Oct. 4, and is down 17 percent this year. It closed
at HK$2.80 on Dec. 6, giving the company a market value of
HK$12.3 billion.  ENN, based in  Hebei province  in northern China, operates
100 city piped gas projects on the mainland, supplying 6.1
million households and 21,146 industrial and commercial users,
according to its interim report released Sept. 2. China Gas
sells the fuel to 6.6 million residences and 41,981 industrial
and commercial users.  ENN Shares  Shares of ENN have climbed 16 percent in Hong Kong this
year compared with a 19 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index . The company had a market value of about HK$28.5
billion. The stock has been suspended since Dec. 6, and the
company hasn’t yet published an announcement on the offer.  ENN, which changed its name on Sept. 22 last year, reported
an 18 percent profit gain in the first six months to 628.8
million yuan ($99 million) after entering into 10 new piped-gas
projects across eight provinces. The company also started 10
liquefied natural gas refueling stations for buses, trucks and
ships in Guangdong, Zhejiang, Shandong, Heibei and Inner
Mongolia provinces in the six months ended June. 30.  The gas supplier had cash and cash equivalents of 5.7
billion yuan as of June. 30 and a total debt of 9.8 billion
yuan, according to ENN Energy’s interim earnings report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Gordon  in Hong Kong at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 