-- 
Merk Cuts Euro Holdings to Lowest Ever in Hard Currency Fund: Tom Keene

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-12-12T17:34:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/merk-cuts-euro-holdings-to-lowest-ever-in-hard-currency-fund-tom-keene.html
Merk Investments LLC cut the euro
position of its  Hard Currency Fund (MERKX)  to 14 percent, the lowest in
the fund’s six-year history, citing the need for more banking
system support in  Europe  amid the region’s crisis.  “Only when the banking system is secure enough, that’s
when the market is going to quiet down,”  Axel Merk , the
president and chief investment officer of the eponymous firm,
said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom
Keene and Ken Prewitt. “As long as there’s no focus, we’ll get
this grinding down.”  European leaders should consider nationalizing some of the
region’s more troubled banks as a way to contain the turmoil,
Merk said. He oversees $800 million in four currency funds at
the  Palo Alto , California-based company and also spoke in a Dec.
9 telephone interview. The Hard Currency Fund, which bets on 11
currencies against the dollar, was as much as 48.6 percent
positioned in the euro at its inception in May 2005.  The euro dropped 1.3 percent to $1.3386, the biggest
intraday drop since Nov. 23.  Dexia SA, the Paris- and Brussels-based bank, is being
broken up after running out of short-term funding. It was
rescued by the governments of France, Belgium and Luxembourg in
October for the second time in three years, obtaining as much as
45 billion euros ($60.6 billion) in guarantees from the three
nations to cover its financing needs until the end of May.  The  European Central Bank , the  Federal Reserve  and four
other central banks agreed last month to cut the cost of dollar
funding to financial institutions after the costs surged to the
highest level since October 2008.  ‘Creditwatch Negative’  While the three-month cross-currency basis swap has fallen
to 1.28 percentage points below the euro interbank offer rate,
from as high as 1.63 percentage points on Nov. 30, it is still
above the 0.07 percentage points reached in May.  Moody’s Investors Service said today it will review the
ratings of European Union nations after last week’s summit
failed to produce decisive steps to end the debt crisis.  Standard & Poor’s  put the EU’s AAA rating on “creditwatch
negative” last week after similar action on 15 of the 17 euro
nations, pending the outcome of last week’s summit and the
actions of central bankers.  The euro won’t drop significantly, Merk said, because
slowing global growth and the region’s crisis will prompt
central banks of other countries to ease more than the ECB.  “This is a global problem, not a European problem,” Merk
said. “These global markets are very much interlinked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  