-- 
EU Banks Taking Government Cash Seen Sparking ‘Vicious Cycle’

-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 
2011-12-12T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/eu-banks-taking-government-cash-seen-sparking-vicious-cycle-.html
European banks turning to their
governments to raise required capital could trigger a downward
spiral of declining sovereign-debt prices and further losses for
the lenders.  The European Banking Authority ordered the region’s banks
on Dec. 8 to raise 115 billion euros ($154 billion) by June.
Faced with dwindling profits and unable to tap  capital markets 
to sell new shares, firms may be forced to seek government help.
About 70 percent of the capital requirement falls on lenders in
Spain, Greece, Italy and Portugal, countries struggling to
convince the world they can pay their debts.  “If the Southern governments put money in their banks,
their sovereign debt will go up, exacerbating their problems,”
said  Karel Lannoo , chief executive officer of the Centre for
European Policy Studies in Brussels. “Then the banks’ losses
will rise because they hold the government debt. That’s a
vicious cycle. It’s hard to know which one to stabilize first,
the sovereign bonds or the banks.”  European Union leaders meeting in Brussels last week agreed
to move toward a closer fiscal union, with harsher penalties for
countries violating budgetary constraints. With the action,
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and her counterparts aim to stem
the erosion of confidence in the ability of some nations to pay
their debts. Market reaction to the announcement was mixed, with
stocks climbing and bonds falling.  Stress Tests  The new capital requirements followed stress tests by the
EBA, which said it required lenders to mark all EU  government
bonds  on their books to market values. Banks were asked to make
up for the losses from declining prices with additional capital.  While Greek banks have the biggest deficit and need to
raise 30 billion euros, according to the EBA, they will get help
from the EU and the  International Monetary Fund .  Spanish banks  face the second-biggest bill, 26 billion
euros.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the country’s biggest lender, was
ordered to raise 15.3 billion euros, more than any other
European bank. The company has said it plans to generate capital
from profits and by changing internal calculations to assign
lower risk to its assets. The EBA warned banks last week against
manipulating risk-weightings to meet the requirements.  Spanish Debt  Spanish lenders also have 176 billion euros of loans and
mortgages that soured after the nation’s housing market
collapsed, the central bank estimates. Spain’s newly elected
government, which takes power later this month, is considering
setting up a bad bank to absorb those toxic assets. Capitalizing
the banks to meet EBA requirements and shouldering the bad
mortgages could raise Spain’s debt by as much as 20 percent of
gross domestic product. It’s now more than 60 percent.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest lender, was asked to raise
1.5 billion euros after the  stress test , while No. 2  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA needs 2.1 billion euros. Moody’s Investors Service,
which downgraded the ratings of both last week, said there’s a
“very high” chance they’ll get state support if needed.  French banks have the means to recapitalize themselves
without help from the government, Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said yesterday. The EBA last week cut the amount that
country’s banks need to raise by about 17 percent to 7.3 billion
euros as it revised its figures based on September holdings
after using June numbers in earlier estimates.  ‘Cough Up’  Italy’s banking association said it will oppose new
capital requirements set by the EBA “in every way” and is
ready to take legal action, according to Italian news agency
Ansa. The European regulator increased Italian banks’
requirement by 3.4 percent to 15.3 billion euros.  Ireland’s  effort to back its banks brought the country to
the verge of collapse last year. After issuing a blanket
guarantee on all bank debt in 2008, the government was compelled
to keep plugging holes as losses mounted. Sovereign debt doubled
to more than 100 percent of GDP after about 60 billion euros
were put into the nation’s lenders. Ireland sought a rescue
package from the EU and the IMF in November 2010.  “The  European banks (BEBANKS)  can’t get fresh capital, so
governments are going to have to cough up the money,” said
 Barbara Matthews , managing director of BCM International
Regulatory Analytics LLC, a Washington-based consulting firm.
“Germany is re-establishing its bank rescue fund, and it has
the money to put in its banks. But when you look at public
sources, you run into a problem. Do the other sovereigns have
the cash to do it?”  Capital Holes  While strapped governments could turn to the European
Financial Stability Facility for funds to put into their banks,
the EFSF has struggled to expand beyond the 440 billion euros it
has available.  “The EFSF doesn’t have enough money to support Italian and
Spanish sovereign debt as well as put money into the European
banks,” said Desmond Lachman, resident fellow at the  American
Enterprise Institute  in  Washington . “It just can’t do all of
that.”  The EU banks’ capital holes are bigger than the EBA’s
latest estimate, Lachman said, citing a September IMF estimate
of a 300 billion-euro risk based on more favorable prices for
government bonds at the time.  Because banks can’t raise capital from the market and some
governments can’t afford to provide cash, compliance most likely
will be through asset sales and reduced lending in the region,
said Lannoo of the Centre for European Policy Studies. The EBA
has told banks not to meet the new capital requirements through
such measures, instead asking them to refrain from paying
dividends.  Asset Sales  European banks have already announced 1.2 trillion euros of
asset sales as they try to reach a 9 percent capital ratio by
June, according to data compiled by Nomura Holdings Inc. The
shrinking of bank balance sheets in the region may reach 3
trillion euros,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  estimates.  One European bank executive who requested anonymity because
plans weren’t public said his company intended to comply with
requirements of the stress tests by lending less in 2012. By
giving the banks six months to comply, the EBA has provided a
go-ahead for deleveraging, an EU official said, asking not to be
identified to avoid interagency conflict.  The EU leaders’ agreement for tougher budgetary discipline
coupled with banks cutting lending will cause a “huge
recession” in  Europe , AEI’s Lachman said. The result of the
stress tests will be constrained lending, especially in the
Southern countries, which will make their economic rut even
worse, Lannoo said.  “North has fared well so far, but if the South derails
further, then the North will trip too,” Lannoo said.  ‘Death Spiral’  The size of potential losses at European banks has scared
away short-term creditors, squeezing the region’s lenders. The
 European Central Bank  has stepped in to replace funds being
withdrawn, providing unlimited cash and lowering requirements on
the quality of collateral it will accept.  “We’re in a death spiral,” said Andy Brough, a  fund
manager  at Schroders Plc in  London . “As the yields on the
peripheral bonds increase, value of the bonds decreases and the
amount of capital the bank has to raise increases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or @yalman_bn on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 