-- 
EU Summit’s Failure May Consign Top-Rated Bonds to History

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-12-12T12:21:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/eu-failure-on-unanimous-agreement-may-consign-top-rated-bonds-to-history.html
Europe ’s failure to agree on a
comprehensive solution to the sovereign debt crisis threatens to
consign AAA rated bonds in the region to history.  Top-rated agencies in the 17-nation euro area have at least
847.5 billion euros ($1.1 trillion) of debt outstanding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and will be at risk
should their sovereigns be downgraded. Moody’s Investors Service
said today it will review the ratings of all European Union
nations after last week’s summit failed to produce “decisive
policy measures,” while  Standard & Poor’s  announced Dec. 5 it
may cut 15 euro members, including AAA rated  Germany  and France.  “Double A is the new triple A,” said Raphael Gallardo,
the head of economic research at Axa Investment Managers in
Paris, which manages about $690 billion. “De facto, there are
no more highly liquid, risk-free assets. It’s a dangerous
problem because in a market crash, liquid AAA assets are the dam
that contains the total exodus of liquidity.”  European leaders’ fifth attempt to draw a line under their
debt woes ended in a fiscal accord that will bring tighter
deficit rules, though with many details still to be ironed out
and the U.K. vetoing an agreement among all 27 EU members. A
lack of top-rated sovereigns would make it harder to gauge a
risk-free benchmark for securities, reduce participation in
euro-region debt markets and threaten ratings of agencies and
supranationals such as the  European Investment Bank  and  World
Bank .  Market Reaction  Markets signaled investors are disappointed with the
outcome of the Brussels talks. Yields on 10-year bonds sold by
 Italy , which according to UBS AG data must repay about 53
billion euros in the first quarter of next year, climbed above
6.50 percent after falling on Dec. 9.  France’s  note yield was at
3.29 percent, from 3.13 percent a week ago.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments jumped 15 basis points to 378.5,
approaching the record 385 set on Nov. 25. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  “The rating agencies are likely to be underwhelmed” by
the summit, said Peter Tchir, the founder of TF Market Advisors
in  New York . “Countries will still be on watch and might still
be downgraded.”  ‘Soon as Possible’  S&P said it will publish a decision “as soon as
possible” after the EU talks. Moody’s said there was the chance
of “more severe scenarios,” including “multiple defaults”
and “exits from the euro area.”  Banks use  government bonds  to make a return on their funds
while they seek more profitable uses for them. The practice was
encouraged by regulators, which agreed to view the securities as
risk-free, and has now rebounded against the lenders. The
European Banking Authority published last week the results of
tests calculating the additional capital needs of banks that had
to mark their sovereign bonds to market prices, finding a 114.7
billion-euro shortfall.  While a downgrade from AAA may make European assets less
attractive to investors, the effects would be muted should
ratings firms cut a wide group of sovereigns, according to  David Watts , a strategist at CreditSights Inc. in London. When the
U.S. lost its AAA status, its bonds rallied, he said.  Risk-Free  “A government is the only supplier of risk-free assets for
a particular currency because it can tax and, in the end, it can
print money,” said Watts. “In Europe there are alternatives.
If France gets downgraded, say, you can shift to Germany. But if
Germany gets downgraded too, and their relative positions stay
the same, then it shouldn’t make any difference.”  Supranationals, institutions backed by groups of countries
and whose ratings depend on their backers’ creditworthiness,
would also be under threat if sovereigns were downgraded, as
would national state agencies.  German agencies including state-owned development and
investment bank Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau, so-called bad
bank FMS Wertmanagement AoR and agricultural financier
Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank have 563 billion euros of bonds
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar
agencies in  France , the Netherlands and  Austria  have another
284.5 billion euros of bonds and bills.  Bailout Fund  Ratings of the European Financial Stability Facility, the
region’s bailout fund, would be the same as the lowest grade of
the current AAA backers, S&P said this month. The EIB, which is
backed by the 27 members of the EU, is also under review for a
possible downgrade.  “There is no direct relationship between our rating and
our shareholders that is so strong it would automatically lead
to a downgrade,” said Marius Cara, an investor relations
executive at the EIB in Luxembourg. “Our capital isn’t
structured on guarantees and our portfolio of assets doesn’t
depend on the credit of the member states.”  Caisse d’Amortissement de la Dette Sociale , the French
agency known as Cades that was set up in 1996 to refinance
social security debt, also challenged the link between its top
rating and that of its sovereign Dec. 7.  The yield premium investors demand to hold the EIB’s 5
billion euros of 3.5 percent bonds due 2016 instead of benchmark
German debt is 166 basis points, up from 88 at the beginning of
August, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The spread on
the EFSF’s 3 billion euros of 2.75 percent notes maturing in
2016 was 156 basis points, up from 94 basis points Aug. 1.  “The fact that we’re talking about triple-A downgrades and
the kind of volatility we’re seeing in spreads indicates that
paradigms are changing,” said Ben Bennett, a strategist at
Legal & General Investment Management in  London , which oversees
about $500 million. “We’re starting to get unhappy holders,
people who thought they held one thing and then realized that
wasn’t what they held after all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  