-- 
Luck May Be Key Ingredient for EU Leaders’ Latest Blueprint to Save Euro

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-12-12T08:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/eu-leaders-must-avoid-more-self-inflicted-wounds-to-euro-rescue-plan-work.html
European leaders’ effort to save the
euro hinges on support from investors, central bankers and
credit-rating companies to win the months needed to put a
revamped budget rulebook into practice.  “Luck is likely to be required,” said  Joachim Fels , chief
global economist at Morgan Stanley in London.  To have a chance of success, a deal reached after all-night
talks on Dec. 9 to restore faith in the single currency requires
investors to avoid dumping European debt,  Standard & Poor’s  to
hold off on threatened downgrades, foreign countries to chip in
rescue cash and the  European Central Bank  to soothe bond
markets.  Politicians also have to avert the unforced errors that
sank previous initiatives and turned a Greek deficit problem in
2009 into a threat to the international financial system.  The result of a Brussels summit that French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  called the last chance to rescue the euro after
a two-year debt crisis ended with leaders setting themselves a
March deadline to flesh out new fiscal rules.  “The better fiscal straitjacket and the pro-growth reforms
can only serve to prevent future fiscal crises,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “The
key issue is whether the summit result suffices to prevent the
current crisis from spiraling ever more out of control.”  Budget Rules  The so-called fiscal compact requires nations to virtually
eliminate structural deficits, create an “automatic correction
mechanism” and enshrine the new measures in national law. There
will be “more intrusive control” of taxing and spending by
governments that overstep the deficit limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product.  The summit also added to the war chest to protect cash-
strapped economies, with an extra 200 billion euros ($268
billion) for the  International Monetary Fund . Leaders will
accelerate the start of a permanent rescue facility to next year
and reassess its 500 billion euro cap in three months. They
dropped a plan to force losses on bondholders in bailouts.  The first test may be the response of S&P after it put
 Germany ,  France  and 13 other euro nations on review for a
downgrade, linking the decision in part to the summit outcome.
Moody’s Investors Service said today it will review the ratings
of all EU countries in the first quarter because the summit
failed to produce “decisive policy measures.”  The summit makes it “more likely than not that S&P will
carry out its threat to downgrade most of the euro-zone states
in coming days,” said Adam Cole, head of global currency
strategy at RBC  Europe  Ltd.  AAA at Risk  Such an announcement, especially if Germany and France lose
their AAA ratings, could be the spur for financial markets to
revive the rout which last month drove  Italy ’s 10-year bond
yield beyond 7 percent for the first time. European governments
face maturing debt of 157 billion euros by the end of March.
One-third of that is Italian, UBS AG estimates.  “The summit won’t stop investors asking: will euro area
governments default on their debt,” said  Karen Olney , an equity
strategist at UBS. “This could be a rolling crisis where the
market continues to oscillate on every half-hearted solution.”  In contrast,  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
 Barclays Capital , said the plan’s components “add up to a
substantial package of measures.”  Fifth Effort  Governments have declared victory over the turmoil before,
only to be forced back to the drawing board with last week’s
deal the fifth attempt at a systemic solution since May 2010.
They have sometimes been their own worst enemies as with their
failure to implement a July package quickly enough and then
 Greece ’s October decision to call a referendum on the terms of
its bailout package.  Juergen Michels, chief European economist at Citigroup
Inc., is already warning drafting of the new framework in March
“looks very ambitious” because it may not be enforceable.
That’s in part because the U.K.’s opposition to a 27-nation EU-
wide treaty left the other nations having to pursue a more
flimsy “international agreement.”  That creates doubt over the role of pan-European
institutions and opens it to attack from national constitutional
courts, said Michels, who predicts the euro-area economy will
contract throughout 2012. Euro-area nations have still gone it
alone before as with the establishing of their 440-billion euro
rescue fund.  ‘Loopholes’  The U.K.’s isolation means “time will now be wasted on
finding legal loopholes so that the institutions can indeed be
used in the better integrated Europe,” said  Erik Nielsen , chief
economist at UniCredit Group.  The lack of new sanctions for those who violate the fresh
budgetary checks may also undermine the accord’s heft in
markets, said David Mackie, chief European economist at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  No previous euro rulebooks provided “cast-iron
guarantees on behavior because the sanctions are not really that
meaningful,” he said. “This hasn’t changed.”  Away from the summit heat, the pact could also fall prey to
national politics as happened with the summer overhaul of the
European Financial Stability Facility. Even when they work out
the language, up to 26 capitals will have to ratify it in their
own legislatures and amend their constitutions.  Finland has already said it may withdraw its support for
the permanent rescue mechanism if the unanimous decision making
provision is watered down as planned.  “Legal hurdles and implementation risks remain and so will
keep us all watching,” said Morgan Stanley’s Fels.  French Elections  Looming French elections could also prove a spoiler.
Sarkozy, trailing in the polls to Socialist Francois Hollande,
may blunt German-led efforts for greater intrusion into national
budgets. Hollande’s Socialists have criticized adding fiscal
rules to the French constitution.  “The uncertainty until after election day on May 6 will
create an extra layer of anxiety,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief
European economist at Deutsche Bank AG.  Another hurdle, albeit a low one, is whether governments
meet their own deadline of next week to find the cash for the
IMF. Even if they stump it up it will be housed in a general
rather than Europe-specific account meaning any loans made will
require repayment before privately held bonds.  International Cash  A bigger challenge may be luring other nations to chip in
too, a month after the Group of 20 failed to find common ground.
The U.S., the IMF’s biggest shareholder, has said it won’t
participate. Chinese, holder of the world’s largest currency
reserves, may join the effort, Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying
said, without giving details.  “Getting the international community to match the
Europeans’ increase in the lending to the IMF could be
complicated,” said Moec at Deutsche Bank.  Leaders may be left looking to the ECB to provide a
backstop in markets while they carry through their summit
promises. For now, ECB President  Mario Draghi  has limited his
response to saying the pact was a “good outcome” and the basis
for a “good fiscal compact.”  While the ECB bought Spanish and Italian debt in the
summit’s aftermath, ECB officials including Draghi have played
down speculation they will ramp up their bond-buying program or
go as far as to cap yields. They want the keep the pressure on
governments to restore budget order and are instead focusing on
reviving bank lending with new steps such as offering banks
unlimited cash for three years.  Weidmann’s View  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann told the Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung that while the new accord represents
progress, the onus is on governments rather than the Frankfurt-
based ECB to resolve the crisis with financial backing.  “The mandate for redistributing taxpayer money among
member states clearly does not lie in monetary policy,”
Weidmann told the newspaper in an interview published yesterday.  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global
Insight, expects the ECB will ultimately change its tune to
preserve the euro.  “The ECB will ultimately need to substantially step up its
bond-buying program and effectively act as a lender of last
resort, to convince the markets that European policy makers
really are prepared to do whatever is needed to combat the
crisis,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  