-- 
Europe’s Fiscal Pact May Solve Next Crisis, Not This One: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-12T00:05:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/europe-s-fiscal-pact-may-solve-next-crisis-not-this-one-view.html
In concentrating on long-term fiscal
reform and not the crisis at hand, the Dec. 8-9 European Union
summit asked the wrong questions -- then failed to answer even
those.  Financial markets won’t care as long as the leaders’
agreement encourages the  European Central Bank  to support EU
sovereign borrowers more forcefully. Unfortunately, it may not.  The EU leaders agreed to write a new pact on economic
governance to limit future budget deficits and public debt. It
will not be a full treaty revision, which would need unanimity
across the 27-member union, because Britain objected. This could
be a blessing in disguise, because rewriting the EU treaty could
have taken years.  Even this more limited reform, though, will take awhile to
tie down. The deal calls for stricter enforcement of existing
limits of 3 percent of gross domestic product for annual
borrowing and 60 percent of GDP for total public debt. Exactly
how these new, more automatic sanctions will work is yet to be
decided.  The agreement also tells countries to write a “golden
rule” into their basic law. Structural deficits -- after
adjusting for the business cycle -- are not to exceed 0.5
percent of GDP. This, too, will need spelling out before it can
be given legal force: Structural deficits cannot be measured;
they have to be estimated using an economic model.  The golden rule is a bad idea anyway. To make room for
fiscal stimulus in future recessions, countries would have to
run big budget surpluses the rest of the time. This is too
severe, and unrealistically so: Law or no law, it is unlikely to
stick.  In the current emergency, EU governments rightly increased
domestic spending and deficits.  Germany , paragon of fiscal
rectitude, ran a structural deficit -- the chronic shortfall
that exists even when an economy is running at full potential --
of more than 3 percent of GDP last year. Far from being
excessive, such a minuscule amount of fiscal stimulus was
harmful to Germany and the EU overall. Nonetheless, it would
have broken the golden rule.  Remember that, in a financial emergency, governments
sometimes have to take others’ debts onto their books, as
Ireland had to do last year when it was forced to bail out its
banks. Structural deficits, therefore, may surge even if
countries have little or no discretion to exceed the EU’s
official limits. Striving to make the next crisis less likely by
strengthening fiscal discipline is wise. Building a system that
assumes there will never be another crisis is not.  In concentrating on long-term fiscal issues, the leaders
mostly ignored the crisis around them. The lending capacity of
the EU’s bailout fund was not increased, as some leaders had
wanted. The subject will apparently be discussed at the next
summit in March. A proposal for jointly underwritten euro bonds
was likewise left for another time. That’s too bad. We continue
to believe that collectively backed bonds are the best way to
fend off future market attacks on highly indebted sovereigns.  The immediate question is whether the fiscal pact,
malformed as it may be, will give the ECB cover to step up its
bond-buying -- the outcome markets were hoping for, and the
crucial next step in containing  Europe ’s financial crisis. First
indications are discouraging.  Mario Draghi , the ECB’s chief,
told a news conference that too much had been read into his
earlier comments, when he said the bank might follow a stronger
fiscal union with “other elements.”  Let Draghi deny an automatic connection between the summit
and ECB policy by all means -- so long as he acts, and quickly,
to take charge of this emergency. One thing the summit has made
clear: If he doesn’t, nobody else is going to.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 