-- 
EU Set to Discuss CO2 Goal After China, India Pledge Action

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-12-12T13:39:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/european-union-to-discuss-carbon-reduction-goal-as-china-india-back-plan.html
The European Union is set to resume
talks early next year about moving to a stricter carbon goal
after countries worldwide backed its plan to start work toward a
climate treaty that would be enacted by 2020.  Europe  pledged yesterday after the conclusion of a two-week
United Nations climate summit in Durban,  South Africa , to adopt
a binding post-2012 emission-cutting target under the  Kyoto
Protocol  in exchange for a vow by both industrialized and
developing countries including China and  India  to commit to
carbon cuts under a new deal with “legal force.”  The 27-nation bloc, which already has its own internal
target of lowering greenhouse gases by 20 percent below 1990
levels by 2020 and has said it may move to 30 percent if other
countries follow suit, is due to submit its new Kyoto goal by
May 1, 2012.  “Decisions on the second-commitment Kyoto targets will be
taken next year,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for
the European Commission, the EU executive arm in Brussels, said
in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions. “Discussions
are most likely to start at the meeting of environment ministers
in March.”  Talks about the future stringency of the EU climate-
protection policies, an area over which  member states  have been
divided since the adoption of the bloc’s climate legislation
package in 2008, may also get new impetus after  Denmark , which
has called for more ambitious goals, takes over the rotating
presidency of the bloc in January.  Increased Target  “Given the relative success of this summit, the EU now
needs to urgently deal with its low low-emission reduction
ambition and start increasing its target well beyond 30
percent,” said Wendel Trio, director for Europe at
environmental lobby Climate Action Network.  At stake is the price of carbon dioxide in the EU emissions
market, the world’s largest, which has plunged 46 percent this
year amid speculation that the euro-area debt crisis may worsen
and concerns that oversupply of permits may increase following
the introduction of new energy-efficiency legislation.  Stepping up energy savings would enable the bloc to exceed
its 20 percent carbon-cut goal, and reduce  greenhouse gases  by
25 percent domestically by 2020, according to the commission.
The most cost-efficient scenario to meet the bloc’s long-term
emission targets is to cut discharges by 40 percent in 2030 and
60 percent in 2040, it said in a policy paper published in
March.  The EU regulatory arm is due to present early next year an
analysis on the costs of reaching more ambitious climate targets
at a national level.  Global Deal  The European cap-and-trade program covers about 50 percent
of the region’s emissions and was valued at 120 billion euros
($160 billion) last year.  EU emission permits for December rose as much as 6.1
percent to 8.32 euros today, before falling back to 7.77 euros
as of 1 p.m. in  London  after the decision by UN envoys yesterday
to start a process leading to a global deal. The European pledge
to extend the Kyoto Protocol targets will create a bridging
mechanism for the period between the current goals expire and
the new legally binding agreement comes into force.  UN envoys agreed that the end-date for the so-called Kyoto
second commitment period will be decided next year. During the
talks negotiators considered two options, 2017 and 2020.  Distant Prospect  “The Durban outcome seems to confirm that the EU is likely
to remain almost on its own in making significant emissions
reductions until at least 2020,” according to BusinessEurope, a
lobby. “A global level-playing field for European energy- and
trade-intensive industry remains a distant prospect.”  The extension of the Kyoto targets by developed countries
was a key demand from poorer nations, including India,  China  and
 Brazil , which have voluntary goals under the protocol and argued
that they need more time for a shift to mandatory commitments
that would impact their economic growth.  The EU agreed to extend its Kyoto goals after the current
ones expire next year even as  Canada ,  Japan  and  Russia  declared
they won’t do so. The U.S. has never ratified the treaty.  “Durban is a clear signal that the EU succeeded to take
others on board and that global action is starting,” said
Valero-Ladron. “We were leaders here and we will continue to be
in the future. The truth is that when the EU moves, other
follow; sometimes under pressure, but they do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Ewa Krukowska} in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  