-- 
European Stocks Retreat on Moody’s Review; Axa, LSE Lead Decline

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-12-12T17:10:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/european-stock-index-futures-decline-before-italy-france-debt-auctions.html
European stocks  retreated the most
in three weeks as Moody’s Investors Service said it will review
the credit ratings of all countries in the region following last
week’s debt summit.  Axa SA led insurers lower after  Standard & Poor’s  placed 15
companies on watch negative.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  slid 5.6 percent as
 copper  retreated.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  decreased 4.9
percent as S&P also placed the bourse’s  credit rating  on review
for a downgrade.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 1.9 percent to
236.05 at the close of trading, extending this year’s decline to
14 percent. The gauge slid 0.1 percent last week as the  European
Central Bank  damped speculation it would boost bond purchases,
overshadowing an agreement by European Union leaders to step up
measures to fight the debt crisis.  “A lot and nothing has changed following the most recent
EU summit,” Dan Morris, a strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 London , wrote in a report today. “It will be a combination of
ECB support for banks and sovereigns, plus individual country
progress on reform and austerity packages, which will determine
how markets move over the next several months.”  Moody’s said it will review the ratings of all EU countries
in the first quarter, saying the summit failed to deliver
“decisive policy measures” to end the debt crisis. The review
will be completed in the first quarter of next year.  ECB Role  Germany’s top central banker yesterday cooled speculation
that the ECB will extend its role after European leaders agreed
a new fiscal accord last week.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann told the Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung that while the new accord represents
“progress,” the onus is on governments rather than the ECB to
resolve the crisis. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said euro-area policy makers will now focus on implementing last
week’s pact.  National benchmark indexes retreated in all 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 slid 2.6 percent, the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 fell 1.8 percent and Germany’s DAX lost 3.4 percent.  The Stoxx 600 earlier pared its decline to as little as 0.3
percent after Italy sold 7 billion euros ($9.3 billion) of one-
year bills, the maximum for the auction, with a reduced yield.
Borrowing costs fell to 5.952 percent today from 6.087 percent
at the last sale on Nov. 10 after Prime Minister Mario Monti’s
government approved a 30 billion-euro emergency economic plan.  Insurers Fall  Axa (CS) , Europe’s second-biggest insurer, dropped 6.5 percent
to 10.45 euros, the largest decline since Nov. 1.  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
the region’s biggest insurer, declined 6.5 percent to 74.24
euros and Italy’s  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  lost 3.9 percent to
11.95 euros.  S&P placed all three insurers on watch negative after the
ratings company started reviewing the credit scores of 15 euro-
area governments on Dec. 5.  “Depending on the outcome of our review of the ratings on
the euro zone member governments, the long-term ratings on these
insurers could be lowered by one or two notches, and short-term
ratings for some issuers could be lowered by one notch,” S&P
said in a statement.  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch financial-services company,
sank 8.1 percent to 5.36 euros. The company offered to buy back
and exchange 5.8 billion euros of subordinated debt to bolster
its finances as regulators demand higher capital reserves.  Xstrata dropped 5.6 percent to 955.4 pence, Kazakhmys Plc
slid 6.7 percent to 880 pence and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  slipped 3.3
percent to 1,897 pence. Copper fell as much as 3.2 percent in
London trading as  China ’s exports cooled.  China Exports  China’s  export growth  slowed in November to the weakest
pace since 2009, making the government more likely to further
ease policies to sustain the economy’s expansion. Overseas
shipments rose 13.8 percent from a year earlier, the customs
bureau said on Dec. 10.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC)  sank 7.4 percent to 634.5
pence even after denying a report in the Sunday Times that
Britain’s Serious Fraud Office started an inquiry into
allegations of corruption at a Kazakh iron ore unit.  “There is no formal SFO investigation into the company,”
said an ENRC spokesperson. “There was nothing new in the Sunday
Times story. The internal audit committee investigations and
liaison with appropriate regulators, including the SFO, is
entirely normal practice for a major company that is serious
about investigating all allegations properly and striving to
meet corporate governance best practice.”  LSE Rating  LSE declined 4.9 percent to 780 pence. The equity-market
operator that also owns a clearinghouse in Italy may have its
credit rating cut by S&P because Italian banks’ finances are
deteriorating.  Separately, the exchange agreed to buy the 50 percent of
FTSE International Ltd. that it doesn’t already own from  Pearson
Plc (PSON)  for 450 million pounds ($702 million). Pearson shares slid
1.4 percent to 1,128 pence.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  dropped 6.5 percent to
20.56 pence after the Financial Services Authority said in a
report that the lender was being investigated before its bailout
after it wrongly told regulators it held more cash to cover
client withdrawals than the required minimum.  Lloyds Sinks  Rival  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  retreated 8.6 percent to
24.43 pence, the largest drop since September.  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  declined 4.4 percent to 85.15 kronor as
Latvians withdrew at least $19 million from the Swedish bank’s
automatic teller machines amid concern the lender may close its
Estonian business and speculation the ATMs were malfunctioning.  Maris Mancinskis, the head of Swedbank’s Latvian unit, said
the speculation was “not only false, but also completely
absurd.”  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  slid 3 percent to 4.30 euros in
Milan, while  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  slumped 2.4 percent to
5.74 euros in Frankfurt.  Intel Corp ., the world’s largest
chipmaker, reduced its fourth-quarter revenue forecast by about
$1 billion, citing a shortage of hard-disk drives for personal
computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  