-- 
Euro Impaired as Draghi Undoing Trichet Rates Cuts Support

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-12-12T14:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/euro-undermined-as-draghi-undoing-trichet-interest-rates-removes-support.html
Foreign-exchange strategists are
reducing their forecasts for the euro at the fastest pace this
year as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s interest-
rate cuts remove one of the currency’s pillars of support.  Since Nov. 3, when Draghi began to undo the rate increases
implemented earlier this year by his predecessor,  Jean-Claude Trichet , analysts have cut end-of-2012 estimates for the euro to
$1.32 from $1.40, based on the median of 40 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey as of last week. It has weakened versus every
major currency except the Swiss franc since then, after gaining
against 12 of the 16 this year prior to that.  Investors are fleeing assets denominated in the 17-nation
currency as European Union leaders fail to end concern that
Italy and  Spain  will succumb to a sovereign-debt crisis that
forced  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts. While euro
bulls say sentiment is so negative that the currency has nowhere
to go but up, bears point to surveys showing the euro zone’s
economy will expand 0.5 percent next year, compared with 2.19
percent for the U.S.  “There still has to be further monetary easing by the ECB
to support growth in the euro area for 2012 and beyond,” Ken Dickson, investment director of currencies at Standard Life
Investments in Edinburgh, which manages about $235 billion, said
in a Dec. 9 telephone interview. “There’ll be further weakness,
particularly in the first half of next year,” which may push
the currency to as low as $1.20 from $1.3386 last week, he said.  Relative Rates  For much of this year, relatively high  interest rates  gave
international investors an incentive to hold European fixed-
income assets even as the threat of more bailouts rose.  Trichet’s increases in April and July pushed the ECB’s main
refinancing rate to 1.5 percent from 1 percent, helping drive
 yields  on two-year German bunds to 1.31 percentage points more
than  U.S. Treasuries  of similar maturity on May 4 from 0.2
percentage point in January. The euro appreciated as much as 16
percent in that period. Since then, the gap has shrunk to 0.09
percentage point, and the euro has depreciated about 10 percent.  The two-year Treasury-German note spread has “been the
most statistically significant” driver of the euro-dollar
 exchange rate  “over time,” strategists at New York-based
Citigroup Inc. said in a Dec. 9 report to clients.  Europe ’s common currency fell 1.1 percent to $1.3242 at
9:48 a.m. New York time. It dropped 0.7 percent to 103.14 yen
and weakened 0.7 percent against the pound to 84.82 pence.  Europe Blueprint  European leaders unveiled a blueprint last week for a
closer fiscal accord to save the currency, adding 200 billion
euros ($265 billion) to their bailout fund and tightening rules
to curb future debts. They also will start a 500 billion-euro
rescue fund next year and diluted a demand that bondholders
shoulder losses in rescues.  The measures failed to spur the ECB, which has  bought  207.5
billion euros of sovereign bonds since May 2010 to curb a rise
in borrowing costs, to commit to purchasing more securities.
 Yields  on Italian five-year securities jumped as much as 65
basis points, or 0.65 percentage point on the day of the Dec. 8
ECB meeting, rising above 7 percent the next day.  “There’s an element of disappointment in that much more
could have been done,”  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director
for the foreign-exchange group at Bank of New York Mellon Corp.
in  Boston , said in a Dec. 9 telephone interview. “The tolerance
of investors has been severely tested and there’s a general
expectation that a lot more needs to be done.”  Euro Flows  Cumulative outflows from the euro last week were twice the
average in the same period last year, according to BNY Mellon,
the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $26 trillion
in assets under administration. The firm doesn’t provide
specific figures.  Bets against the euro are at about a record high,
suggesting that any positive news may cause traders to unwind
those trades, sending the currency higher, according to Pierre Lequeux, head of currency management at Aviva Investors.  “The market is already positioned for a collapse of the
euro and therefore there’s not much room for them to add to the
existing position,” Lequeux, whose firm manages about $420
billion, said in an interview at his office in  London  on Dec. 9.
The single currency may rebound to as high as $1.50 next year,
which would be “driven by a credible solution,” he said.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators held a net 95,814
 contracts  at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as of Dec. 6
anticipating a drop in the euro, from 104,302 a week earlier,
according to the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. In May, there were 99,516 contracts wagering on a
gain.  Historical Levels  The last time there were about as many contracts betting on
a decline was in 2010, just before the euro began a rise from
$1.1877 in June to as high as $1.4282 that November.  For all the concern that the euro may break up, the
currency is about 11 percent above its average since being
created in 1999. That’s a sign that traders see little chance of
a collapse. The currency will end March at $1.30, the weakest
quarter-end level next year, based on median quarterly estimates
of strategists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Last week’s EU summit sets Europe on the path to a
“lastingly stable euro,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told
reporters. “The breakthrough to a stability union has been
achieved.”  Slower Growth  Growth in the euro area’s economy next year will probably
slow from a projected 1.6 percent in 2011, while U.S. expansion
may accelerate in 2012 from 1.8 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Stress in Europe’s financial system, coupled with slower
growth, prompted  Standard & Poor’s  on Dec. 5 to say Germany and
 France  may be stripped of their AAA credit ratings as it put 15
euro nations on review for possible downgrade.  A slumping economy may prompt the Frankfurt-based ECB to
cut its main refinancing rate a further 0.25 percentage point to
0.75 percent by March, shrinking the difference between the
 Federal Reserve ’s target rate to 0.50 percentage point, separate
surveys show. The gap would be the smallest since 2008.  Bets that the euro will drop against the dollar increased
in the options market. Traders paid 3.6 percentage points more
on Dec. 9 for the right to sell the euro against the dollar than
to buy it, up from about 1.2 percentage points in January. The
so-called three-month 25-delta risk reversal rate rose 0.17
percentage point on Dec. 9 after EU leaders agreed at the summit
to enforce stricter debt and deficit limits.  Dollar Funding Costs  Dollar funding costs for European banks increased after the
summit amid concern the measures won’t be enough to stem the
crisis. The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate
banks pay to convert euro payments into dollars, ended last week
at 122 basis points below the euro interbank offered rate, from
117 basis points the day before. The measure reached 163 basis
points on Nov. 30.  Looser policy from the ECB “may accentuate the process and
continue to force the euro lower in due course,”  Geoffrey Yu , a
currency strategist at UBS AG in London, said in a telephone
interview on Dec. 8. “The market is reaching a consensus that
there aren’t going to be many upside factors for the euro at
this stage and if Draghi is thinking of further rate cuts, it
just adds to pressure on the euro.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  