-- 
Ex-Dictator Noriega Returns to Panama, Faces 60-Year Sentence

-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 
2011-12-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/ex-dictator-noriega-returns-to-panama-faces-60-year-sentence.html
Former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega, who spent 22 years in U.S. and French jails, returned
to the Central American nation to face his first prison sentence
at home.  Noriega, 77, landed late yesterday in  Panama  City aboard an
Iberia jet after  France  agreed to his extradition. The ex-
general was taken to a  detention center  along the Panama Canal,
where he awaits murder and embezzlement charges connected to his
six-year rule.  Ousted from power in 1989 by U.S. troops, Noriega still
provokes fear among Panamanians who remember his so-called
“Dignity Battalions” attacking opponents with baseball bats.
Officials from Noriega’s Democratic Revolutionary Party, now the
largest opposition group, have distanced themselves from the
former dictator over concerns President Ricardo Martinelli will
use the case to embarrass critics.  “Those who used to work for Noriega are very nervous that
he may speak,” Miguel Bernal, a law professor at the University
of Panama, said in a Dec. 10 phone interview.  Martinelli told reporters yesterday that Noriega “must pay
for all the horror” he caused as the government plans to keep
him in jail instead of house arrest, which is granted for
accused criminals over 70 years of age. A court will decide if
Noriega should stand trial to contest a 60-year sentence handed
down in Panama while he was imprisoned in Miami, Foreign
Minister Roberto Henriquez told reporters Dec. 7.  No Threat  Noriega’s lawyer in Panama, Julio Berrio, said his client
poses no threat and has been a victim of political tricks.  Noriega “wants to return to his country and live a quiet
life,” Berrio said in a Dec. 8 interview at his Panama City
office. “Very few Panamanians remember what he did.”  Citing the country’s emergence as a regional banking hub,
dollarization and political stability, the  International
Monetary Fund  in a Nov. 21 report projected 2011 economic growth
of 8.5 percent, which would make Panama “among the fastest-
growing countries in the Western Hemisphere.”  Moody’s Investors Service in June 2010 raised Panama to
Baa3, which is the rating company’s lowest investment grade
rating. A month earlier,  Standard & Poor’s  had raised Panama one
level to an investment grade rating of BBB-.  Fitch Ratings  also
rates Panama as an investment grade credit.  CIA, Drug Cartels  Carmenza Spadafora, whose brother was killed and beheaded
by Noriega forces, said her family wanted to keep the former
leader out of Panama for fear that he may be released from jail.  “We don’t know how many people owe him favors,” Spadafora
said in a Dec. 9 interview at an anti-Noriega rally in Panama
City. “It was better for the whole country that he never
return.”  As head of the military, Noriega gathered information for
the Central Intelligence Agency while also taking money from
Colombian drug cartels, according to 1988 U.S. congressional
hearings.  U.S. President  George H.W. Bush  sent troops to invade
Panama on Dec. 20, 1989, following disputed presidential
elections. Noriega surrendered two weeks later as American
soldiers blasted rock music outside his refuge in the Vatican
embassy.  Convicted for drug trafficking, racketeering and  money
laundering  in 1992 by a U.S. court, Noriega was extradited to
France in 2010 to serve a separate money-laundering sentence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  