-- 
Texas Pension Projects Saving $20 Million a Year From Retiree Health Shift

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/texas-pension-projects-saving-20-million-a-year-from-retiree-health-shift.html
The  Texas  Employees Retirement
System, the state’s second-largest public pension, figures it
will save about $20 million next year by shifting most of its
retirees to a Medicare Advantage health-insurance plan.  Projected unfunded costs for health care fell $828 million
or 3.7 percent, mostly because of the shift, said Catherine
Terrell, a pension spokeswoman. She said about 70 percent of the
plan’s more than 71,000 retirees and dependents have accepted
coverage managed by  Humana Inc. (HUM)  starting next month.  By comparison, the state’s 1.3 million-member Teacher
Retirement System last month  forecast  a 16 percent increase in
its health-care deficit, to $28.9 billion, up $3.9 billion in 12
months. Covering the spiraling cost of health insurance for
government workers and retirees is becoming a bigger concern
than pension funding, prompting the Texas shift that’s similar
to changes in states such as Ohio and  Florida .  “The concept of Medicare Advantage is that Humana can
negotiate better fees and cut down on unnecessary procedures,”
said  David Warner , who teaches health policy at the  University
of Texas  at Austin, in a Dec. 8 telephone interview. “The
concern is that they won’t contract with the highest-quality
doctors and people won’t get the referrals they need.”  Medicare Advantage insurers are paid a set fee by the U.S.
government for each enrollee and can profit by holding down
costs for such things as consultations with specialists and
tests, unlike traditional fee-for-service plans.  Savings Outlook  The $21.2 billion Texas pension expects $20 million in
annual savings from the move, Terrell said Dec. 9 by telephone.
With the change, the system’s projected unfunded liability for
retiree health care fell to $21.5 billion as of September from a
year earlier, according to a Dec. 1  report  to the fund’s board.
Retirees had until Dec. 9 to opt out of the Advantage plan.  The pension, based in Austin and covering about 545,400
members, spent $2.35 billion on health care in fiscal 2010,
according to the report. The system’s current, self-funded
insurance is overseen by Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas.  Employees and retirees pay nothing for their own coverage
currently and that won’t change for benefits under the Medicare
Advantage program, according to the Dec. 1 report. Adding a
spouse or child will cost $113 a month under the Humana plan,
less than half the cost in the existing program.  Benefiting From Change  “It looks like most of our retired members are going to
benefit from this change,” said Mike Gross, vice president of
the Texas State Employees Union. “We’re pretty pleased with how
this has turned out.”  “ERS is so big that they can be a tough negotiator on
health contracts,” Gross said by telephone Dec. 9.  Medicare is forecast to pay Advantage plans $115 billion in
2012, about 21 percent of its expenses, the Henry J. Kaiser
Family Foundation said in a report, citing a congressional
forecast. Enrollment in the privately run plans has more than
doubled to 11.9 million since 2004 to include a quarter of all
beneficiaries, the foundation said in a separate analysis.  Members of Humana’s Advantage program typically pay about
$800 annually compared with $4,000 for similar benefits under
traditional Medicare with a supplemental policy, Humana Chief
Financial Officer James Bloem said at a Nov. 10 conference.
“That’s what makes it a very compelling proposition,” he said.  The teachers’ system, the biggest public pension in the
state, is studying whether to add an Advantage plan, according
to Howard Goldman, a spokesman.  Opposition to such managed-care plans is declining as  Baby
Boomers  at or near retirement are more accustomed to them than
many older Americans, said Jennifer Kowalski, a director at
Avalere Health LLC, a consulting firm in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 