-- 
Texas Budget Outlook Improves on Rising Sales, Gas-Tax Revenue, Combs Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-13T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/texas-budget-picture-improves-as-sales-tax-collections-jump-combs-says.html
Tax revenue in  Texas , the second-
most populous state, will jump 8.6 percent in the two fiscal
years that began in September from the previous budget cycle,
driven by sales and natural-gas levies, new state figures show.  Receipts from all sources will rise 0.8 percent, or about
$1.46 billion, over the previous two years to almost $183.1
billion for the current budget, Comptroller Susan Combs said
yesterday in a report. Sales taxes will climb 10 percent, while
levies on natural-gas production will surge almost 25 percent.  “We’re seeing a stronger recovery than originally
expected,” said Dale Craymer, president of the Texas Taxpayers
and Research Association, an Austin-based nonprofit group
supported by businesses. “The last six months is a story of
good news in the Texas economy getting better.”  The gains in the state led by Governor  Rick Perry , a
contender for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination,
contrast with shortfalls in  California , the biggest state, and
New York, where Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, has described
revenue as “collapsing.” In  Sacramento , Democratic Governor
 Jerry Brown  is seeking to raise income and sales taxes to cope
with receipts that are already $1 billion short of forecasts.  Employment will climb 1.5 percent a year during the budget
period, with a net gain of 314,000 jobs, as the gross state
product rises 2.2 percent annually, Combs said. That growth
compares with the 1.9 percent expected for the U.S., she said.  Population Growth   The state’s jobless rate, at 8.4 percent in October, is
likely to be 8.1 percent at the end of the budget cycle as a 3.6
percent increase in population, to about 26.6 million, offsets
some of the employment gain, Combs said. The state has regained
94 percent of jobs lost during the recession, she said.  “Single-family residential construction remains
depressed,” at levels not seen since the early 1990s, and is
slowing the economy, Combs said. “The overall picture is one of
slower-than-normal recovery with above-average risks of a new
recession,” she said, citing the possibility of a contraction
in  Europe , and slowing growth in  China  and  India .  Texas will end fiscal 2013 with a $1.6 billion surplus in
its general-revenue fund, according to Combs. Its main reserve
account will rise to $7.32 billion from about $6.14 billion. The
state’s two-year budget eliminated an estimated deficit of at
least $15 billion partly by shortchanging schools by more than
$5 billion as Perry and fellow Republicans refused Democrats’
appeals to raise taxes.  Medicaid and Surplus  The spending plan also excluded about $4.8 billion in
projected Medicaid costs, Craymer said. Much of any surplus is
likely to be used to cover the expenses for the health-care
program for the needy, he said.  Texas  will reap $2.29 billion from natural-gas production,
up from almost $1.84 billion previously, according to Combs.
Sales-tax revenue will climb to more than $45.3 billion from
$41.1 billion in the previous two-year cycle, she indicated.  General-revenue related funds will rise 8.2 percent to
$82.7 billion, after mandatory exclusions and set-asides for
reserves and trusts, Combs said. Federal aid, including the U.S.
portion of Medicaid costs, will drop 5 percent to about $71.3
billion, Combs said.  While previous oil and gas booms were driven by
speculators, the growth this time is occurring even as natural-
 gas prices  have fallen, Craymer said. Futures for January
delivery dropped to the lowest level in more than two years in
 New York  yesterday, settling at $3.254 per million British
thermal units. Combs said mining, including natural-gas
exploration, was the fastest-growing industry in the state.  “We’re seeing a tremendous investment in technology,”
Craymer said. “This boom is being driven not by speculation but
by reality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 