-- 
Obama Backers Make President Top Fundraiser From Business

-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 
2011-12-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/executives-for-obama-make-president-top-fundraiser-from-business-leaders.html
President  Barack Obama , who has been
characterized as anti-business by his political opponents, has
received more in campaign contributions from business executives
this year than any Republican presidential candidate.  Obama raised $5.6 million from executives, or about a third
of all their donations through Sept. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Republican candidate Mitt Romney raised
$5.2 million, far outpacing his primary challengers. Former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich , the front-runner in the latest national
polls, raised about $272,000, or 5 percent of Romney’s total.  The findings illustrate the powers of an incumbent
president with an established fundraising apparatus, and the
diversity of political preferences among business leaders.
Executives from communications and technology firms led Obama’s
donor list. Romney’s professional ties to the private-equity
fund Bain Capital LLC, which he founded, fueled his receipts.  “Business is not a monolith,” Robin Kolodny, a political
scientist at Temple University in Philadelphia, said in an
interview.  The Bloomberg analysis examined contributions from about
9,000 donors through the end of September. The review counted
individuals who identified themselves on federal campaign
documents by titles such as chief executive officer, president,
vice president, chairman and director.  While executives have given more money to Obama, they make
up a small percentage of his total donor base. Executives
account for 6 percent of Obama’s total contributions, and 16
percent of Romney’s, according to the analysis.  Corporate America  Though Obama has criticized the excesses of Wall Street
financial firms and their executives, he always has had “a
large donor component that was linked to corporate America,”
David Magleby, a political scientist and visiting scholar at the
University of Michigan in  Ann Arbor , said in an interview.  Penny Pritzker , a Chicago billionaire businesswoman and
chairman of Pritzker Realty Group LLC, led Obama’s fundraising
efforts in 2008. Matthew Barzun, a former CNET Networks Inc.
executive, leads fundraising for Obama’s re-election campaign.  Katie Hogan, a spokeswoman for Obama’s campaign, declined
to comment on the Bloomberg findings.  Obama raised $59,725 from donors who claimed an executive
affiliation at  Comcast Corp. (CMCSK) , the nation’s largest cable-
television provider, more than from the leaders of any other
company.  David L. Cohen, an executive vice president who oversees
the company’s government affairs, is a so-called bundler for
Obama who has raised at least $500,000 for the president’s
campaign. Bundlers solicit donations for a particular candidate
from friends and associates.  Sena Fitzmaurice, a spokeswoman for Comcast, declined to
comment on the donations by company executives.  ‘Neither One’  Obama received $25,200 from six executives at San
Francisco-based  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the largest maker of online
customer-management software. They included CEO  Marc Benioff ,
who told television interviewer  Charlie Rose  on Nov. 29 that
he’s not sure yet whom he would back for president even though
he has donated to Obama’s campaign and hosted a fundraiser for
him in April.  “I have supported Barack Obama in the past,” said
Benioff, who has contributed to politicians in both parties. “I
have vacillated between being a Republican and being a Democrat.
I’m now neither one.”  Executives from Chopper Trading LLC in Chicago, a
technology-based trading firm, gave $25,000 to Obama’s campaign.  Democratic Donors Younger  Technology firms lean more Democratic than Republican
because they “tend to be younger, a little bit more
unconventional in terms of their thinking about business,” said
Michigan’s Magleby.  Technology company leaders also may be “pushed away from
the Republican Party on some social issues,” he said.  The Obama campaign has an online-based organization,
Technology for Obama, that asks industry employees to “join a
select group” by donating as much as $35,800 to the campaign
and the Democratic National Committee.  Obama’s $5.6 million from executives includes $4.4 million
transferred to his campaign from the Obama Victory Fund, a joint
fundraising committee that also sends money to the Democratic
National Committee.  The Obama Victory Fund may collect contributions of as much
as $35,800 from one donor, and then transfer $5,000 to Obama’s
re-election campaign and $30,800 to the DNC.  Executives who donated the maximum to Obama’s campaign
through the victory fund include  Sheryl Sandberg , the chief
operating officer of Facebook Inc., and  Eric Schmidt , the
chairman of  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Romney Front-runner  The Bloomberg analysis shows that Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor, is the clear front-runner among
Republicans for donations from executives, with his $5.2 million
in receipts exceeding the cumulative total of his competitors
for the nomination.  Executives from  EMC Corp. (EMC) , a data-storage company based in
Hopkinton, Massachusetts, donated $65,750 to Romney’s campaign,
more than the leaders of any other company.  Romney received $33,000 from executives with  Staples Inc. (SPLS) ,
a Framingham, Massachusetts-based office-supply company in which
he was an early investor. During a Bloomberg-Washington Post
presidential debate on Oct. 11, Romney mentioned Staples in
touting his background in business and job creation.  ‘One Of Them’  Executives are donating to Romney in part because “he’s
one of them,” said Jonathan Krasno, a political scientist at
Binghamton University in Binghamton, New York, in an interview.
“The companies that are giving him the most money are in the
same industry as he was in business, or people he dealt with as
governor.”  Other business leaders support Obama because “he’s an
incumbent,” Krasno said. “He’s got to be seen as having a
pretty good chance of winning.”  Executives are backing Romney “because of the state of the
economy and the president’s failures to create jobs,” Andrea
Saul, a Romney campaign spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  To executives, Romney “looks more viable in a general
election than the rest of the pack,” Kolodny said.  Romney “dominates the Republican field when it comes to
being able to win a general election,” James B. “Jimmy” Lee
Jr., a vice chairman of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said in a Nov. 28
e-mail seeking donations.  Dueling Fundraisers  Lee is co-hosting a fundraiser for Romney in New York on
Dec. 14, the same day that  Stephen Schwarzman , chairman of
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity firm,
will raise money for Romney at a separate event at his Park
Avenue residence.  Schwarzman did business deals with Romney in the 1980s and
opposes Democratic efforts to tax carried interest, the share of
profits paid to asset managers, as ordinary income rather than
at the lower capital gains rate.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  raised at least $3.2 million from
executives at businesses including United Services Automobile
Association, a San Antonio-based financial services and
insurance company that donated $32,500 from executives.  Executives from Contran Corp., a Dallas-based holding
company, donated at least $22,500 to Perry’s campaign, and the
company’s political action committee contributed $5,000.  The donations from leaders at USAA and Contran are part of
why $1.8 million of Perry’s $3.2 million in executive donations
came from Texas, where he’s been governor for 11 years.  ‘Big Question’  It’s worth watching whether the business community will
lend significant fundraising help to Gingrich’s campaign if he
continues to lead in Republican polls,  Michael Malbin , executive
director of the Washington-based Campaign Finance Institute, a
nonpartisan group that studies political giving, said in an
interview.  “Can he possibly rally the mainstream business community
to support him?” he said. “I think that’s a big question.”  Gingrich surged in the polls last month. The next batch of
fundraising reports, which are due Jan. 31, will cover donations
made in the fourth quarter during his ascendancy.  Gingrich’s donors so far include  Sheldon Adelson , the chief
executive officer of Las Vegas Sands Corp., Richard M. DeVos Sr., a co-founder of Amway Corp., and  Tom Tauke , the executive
vice president for public affairs at Verizon Communications Inc.
and an Iowa Republican who served with Gingrich in the House.  Donations Will Increase  R.C. Hammond, a spokesman for Gingrich, didn’t respond to
an e-mail seeking comment.  Political donations from business executives probably will
increase after Republicans settle on a candidate. Presidential
nominees “have raised more in the election year than the year
before,” Malbin said.  In addition to the $15.6 million that business executives
have donated directly to the presidential candidates, they’ve
given an additional $7.5 million to super PACs that are
independently promoting candidates. Super PACs proliferated
after a 2010 Supreme Court ruling that struck down limits on
corporate campaign spending. The figures for super PACs are
current to the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  