-- 
Exploring Your Inner Neophiliac (Part 1): Winifred Gallagher

-- B y   W i n i f r e d   G a l l a g h e r
-- 
2011-12-12T00:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/exploring-your-inner-neophiliac-part-1-winifred-gallagher.html
If you could spend a few minutes
watching a gang of monkeys play, you’d soon identify the
cautious “neophobes,” fearful of all things new, who peek at
you from behind a barrier.  And you’d easily distinguish them from the outgoing
“neophiles” and “neophiliacs,” who approach you in hopes of
a treat, when the latter aren’t too busy showing off or
fighting.  For that matter, if you’ve been acquainted with some
skittish, extroverted and feisty cats or dogs, you’ve
experienced firsthand what the nascent fields of animal emotion
and personality have documented: The tendency to either approach
or avoid novelty is the most important, stable behavioral
difference among individuals in the same species, period.  We humans, too, show big personal differences in certain
enduring attitudes toward newness and change. Even infants
express preferences for familiar or unfamiliar objects.  Whether your own tendency is to approach or avoid novelty,
or to think it over first, that temperamental inclination, which
is about 50 percent inheritable, will be manifest in the things
you do and the way you do them, from learning a skill to walking
into a party of strangers.  Science of Novelty  Through the ages, scientists have proposed many theories to
explain our varying reactions to the new and different. In the
fifth century B.C., Hippocrates identified three categories:
Optimistic, energetic neophiles who crave novelty he called
“sanguine.” Fretful, moody neophobes were “melancholic.”
Irritable, impulsive neophiliacs were “choleric.”  Modern psychologists assert that we vary quantitatively in
our approach to the new. If you’re among the majority in the
moderate middle, you express your affinity for novelty in
countless everyday ways. Maybe you delight everyone at your
office by figuring out how to do a boring job in a more
interesting, efficient fashion. Perhaps you sign up for exotic
vacations, or just choose a film from Bollywood instead of
Hollywood.  Largely thanks to technological advances, biologically
informed research on temperament is providing the best insights
into neophilia. In his classic research on boldness and shyness,
Jerome Kagan, a psychologist at  Harvard University , exposed
infants and small children to mildly stressful forms of novelty
-- noise, sour tastes, unfamiliar objects or people -- while he
monitored their behavioral and physiological responses. He found
that certain fearless tots, most of them boys, clearly warranted
the label of “bold.” Their physiological markers are a very
low heart rate and a more active left brain. Their active,
spontaneous behavior and zestful, bring-it-on attitude toward
new things bespeaks the instinctive energy and drive that Freud
called “libido.”  Story Musgrave, best known as the astronaut who repaired
the Hubble telescope while floating in space some 370 miles
above Earth, expressed the neophiliac’s strong bold streak as a
child on his family’s thousand-acre  New England  farm. Describing
himself as a “born explorer,” he told me, “I was in the
forests alone at night at the age of 3 and on the rivers in my
home-built rafts at 5.” Musgrave would put in nearly 18,000
hours in civilian and military aircraft as pilot, instructor and
acrobatics specialist. He would also make some 600 parachute
jumps, including free falls to study human aerodynamics.  ‘A Restless Wanderer’  Supplying insight into the born thrill-seeker’s low-idling
temperamental sangfroid, he said, “I’m a restless wanderer, but
in a calm, serene and mindful way -- certainly not agitated or
frenetic.” Now retired from  NASA , Musgrave said his personal
goal has never been money or fame, but simply “to live on the
high ground of ultimate performance just for the sake of it,
with no other gain.”  An astronaut’s uninhibited approach to novelty exemplifies
fearlessness, but a neophiliac’s behavior stems from more than
just a lack of anxiety. Very bold individuals also respond more
to reward than to punishment, and even react less strongly to
what anyone else would consider agony.  In addition to boldness, neophiliacs are apt to have a
strong streak of Hippocrates’ choleric disposition. This
tendency to act first and ask questions later, which modern
psychologists call “irritability” or “impulsivity,” comes in
handy in the kind of high-octane situations that are familiar to
Navy Seals and others of that feisty ilk. In primate
populations, the trait overlaps substantially with a readiness
to explore new environments, both physical and intellectual.  The legendary bongo-playing physicist Richard Feynman, who
had a fine, if unremarkable, IQ of 125, exemplified the creative
neophiliac’s flexible, open attitude toward new experiences and
ways of thinking. In addition to his Nobel Prize-winning
contributions to quantum physics, he was a passionate traveler,
joker, artist and samba aficionado. He married three times,
experimented with psychedelic drugs and sometimes saw the
numerals in black-printed equations in living color.  Great innovators like Feynman often have a rugged,
uncensored, warts-and-all view of life, which causes them to
notice many things, including negative ones, that others gloss
over. Colleagues of Feynman’s, after releasing some bit of
labor-intensive research, often found that he had reached the
same conclusions long before they did, but, unimpressed, he
hadn’t bothered to publish his results. “These people set their
own goals,” creativity researcher Dean Simonton said.  Most people at the extreme ends of the cautious-bold
continuum are born with a strong genetic push in one direction
or the other. Yet given the right experiences, some who begin
life as shy neophobes develop into bold neophiles. The new field
of epigenetics, which examines how genes are expressed in the
real world, increasingly reveals the ways in which nurture
sculpts a person’s inborn disposition into “second nature.”
It’s hard to imagine a better illustration of this than Eleanor Roosevelt.  Eleanor Evolves  As a child, she would have fit right in with the most
inhibited of Kagan’s young research subjects -- temperamentally
high-strung neophobes -- often described as “sensitive” or
“shy.” This group includes a sizable number of boys, but more
are girls. These children generally have a more active right
brain, which is linked to anxiety and moodiness, and their heart
rates and other indicators of stress measure higher than
average.  Young Eleanor was described by her biographer Joseph Lash
as insecure, starved for affection and convinced of her own
ugliness. But the shy girl’s life began to change when, at the
age of 15, she attended a London finishing school. A feminist
educator there taught her to be independent and think for
herself, and Eleanor returned to  New York  with a notable
increase in self-confidence and openness.  Despite her status as a wealthy debutante, she overcame her
natural reserve well enough to serve as a social worker in  New
York City ’s slums. Before long, she escorted her distant cousin
and future husband,  Franklin Delano Roosevelt , a dashing and
bold young Harvard student, on a tour of the pestilent
tenements, which moved him.  After Franklin Roosevelt became president, and after
Eleanor discovered his first affair, she turned mostly to women
for friendship and probably romance. In addition, Eleanor had a
very close relationship with her handsome, athletic male
bodyguard, who may also have been a lover.  The once timid little “Granny” mastered many roles,
including politician, social activist, world traveler, author,
speaker and delegate to the  United Nations General Assembly . A
famous New Yorker cartoon shows a stunned coal miner deep in a
tunnel watching a shining flashlight beam headed his way. The
caption reads, “For gosh sakes, here comes Mrs. Roosevelt!”  Even for born neophobes, change is obviously possible.  (Winifred Gallagher is the author of “Just the Way You
Are,” “Working on God” and “The Power of Place.” This is
the first in a three-part series of excerpts from her book
“New: Understanding Our Need for Novelty and Change,” to be
published Jan. 2 by Penguin Press. The opinions expressed are
her own. Read  Part 2  and  Part 3 .)  To contact the writer on this article:
Winifred Gallagher at  winigallagher@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  