-- 
Exports, Moody’s Warning Push N.Y. Stocks Lower: China Overnight

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-12-12T22:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/exports-moody-s-alert-push-new-york-listed-stocks-lower-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks in the U.S. fell the
most in two weeks as slowing export growth and a warning by
Moody’s Investors Service on Europe’s outlook added to signs the
region’s debt crisis may further damage China’s economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks slumped 2.4 percent to 96.82 at the close in New York,
extending last week’s decline.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) ,
the nation’s largest online book retailer, sank 5.2 percent
after a 12 percent surge last week.  China Life Insurance Co. (LFC) 
plunged 5.7 percent to $37.55, 5 cents less than the  Hong Kong 
shares. Internet media company  Sina Corp. (SINA)  slid 5.5 percent to a
13-month low.  China’s  export  growth slowed to the weakest since 2009,
excluding distortions in January and February each year.
Shipments to the European Union countries, China’s biggest
market, rose 5 percent from a year earlier, a quarter of the
pace in July and August. Moody’s said it’s reviewing the ratings
of European Union countries after last week’s summit didn’t
produce measures sufficient to stem the debt crisis.  “The signs across the board seem to point to weak economic
growth down the road,” Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “Industrial production is slowing, investment is
slowing, now exports are also slowing.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , which tracks Chinese
companies listed in Hong Kong, slid 0.1 percent yesterday. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares fell 1 percent to
the lowest close since March 20, 2009. The measures have plunged
this year on mounting concern that Chinese monetary policy and
Europe’s debt crisis are slowing growth in the world’s most
populous nation.  China Mobile (941)  Discount  China Mobile Ltd., (CHL)  the world’s largest mobile-phone company
by subscribers, dropped 1.1 percent to $47.94, the lowest
closing price in two weeks. The American depositary receipts,
each worth 5 ordinary shares, trade at a discount of  9 cents
compared with the Hong Kong shares, the most among companies in
the Bloomberg index.  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO) , China’s largest offshore oil producer, and
 PetroChina (PTR)  Co., the country’s second-largest oil producer
followed oil lower. Crude oil for January delivery fell $1.46 to
$97.95 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
settlement since Nov. 25. PetroChina slid 3.4 percent to
$120.33, the lowest in two months. Cnooc fell 3.8 percent to
$186.64, 2 cents less than the Hong Kong shares. Each ADR is
equivalent to 100 ordinary shares.  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 3.7 percent to $34.94.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  slipped after two weeks of
gains, losing 1.5 percent.  Property-Market Regulation  Exports from  China  rose 13.8 percent in November from a
year earlier, the customs bureau said over the weekend. Sales to
Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, fell 1.6 percent, while
shipments to the European Union gained 5 percent from a year
earlier, a quarter of the pace in July and August.  China Real Estate Information Corp. slid 6.3 percent to
$4.00, the biggest drop in the China-US index. The Shanghai-
based company provides real estate information and consulting.  China will maintain its “unswerving stance” on property-
market regulation next year to return housing prices to a
“reasonable level,” the official Xinhua News Agency reported
on Dec. 9 after the market closed, citing a meeting of the
Communist Party’s Politburo chaired by President  Hu Jintao .  The decision of the 25-member body that oversees policy-
making came before a work conference that sets economic
guidelines for the coming year. That event started yesterday,
according to Xinhua.  Chinese stocks in the U.S. trade at 12.5 times estimated
2012 earnings, compared with a ratio of 10.9 in Shanghai.  “Valuations are very, very attractive” for Chinese
companies, Catherine Yeung, investment director at Fidelity
International, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. She
recommends consumer and technology companies.  The Chinese  yuan  strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.3606 per
dollar in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The yuan has advanced 3.9 percent this year, the
best performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies
excluding the yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at +1. 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  