-- 
MF Global Brokerage Trustee Giddens Outlines Rules for Customer Claims

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-12-12T22:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/mf-global-brokerage-trustee-giddens-outlines-rules-for-customer-claims.html
MF Global Inc. will distribute the
remaining 28 percent customers claim they’re owed by taking
“traceable” assets and putting them in pools for different
types of accounts, said James Giddens, a trustee for the
liquidating brokerage.  Giddens described the rules for customer claims in a 30-
page document filed in  Manhattan  court today. Last week, a
bankruptcy court judge approved the last of the so-called bulk
distribution to customers, a $2.2 billion distribution which,
once transferred, will allow customers to recover 72 percent of
what they lost when the brokerage failed.  “‘Public customers’ of MFGI -- essentially all customers
with commodity accounts other than proprietary accounts of MFGI,
MFGI affiliates and insiders,” will get distributions first,
Giddens said in court papers. Securities customers will have
pools that are separate from commodities customers, he said.  If there isn’t enough in that pool, the U.S. Securities
Investor Protection Corp. provides for as much as $500,000 per
customer, of which as much as $250,000 may be for customer cash
deposited for securities transactions, he noted.  After the third transfer was approved Friday, Giddens had
set aside more than $1 billion to deal with other claims, James Kobak, a lawyer for Giddens, said at the hearing.  MF Global Holdings, once run by former New Jersey Governor
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-chairman  Jon Corzine , filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a wrong-way $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations.  Liquidation Regulations  Separately, the SIPC and the Commodities Futures Trading
Commission filed court papers about regulations governing the
liquidation.  Commodities customers “are granted the highest priority
against the bankrupt broker’s estate,” and if customer property
isn’t sufficient to pay all claims of public customers, “other
estate property will be used to satisfy those
claims,” lawyers for the CFTC wrote.  SIPC, which protects securities customers and not
commodities customers, is authorized to borrow as much as
$2.5 billion through the Securities and Exchange Commission
should its funds be inadequate to carry out demands, according
to court papers.  MF Global Holdings filed for bankruptcy to apportion
returns to creditors, including bondholders and lenders such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , while Giddens is overseeing distributions
to customers at MF Global Inc. under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  