-- 
MF Global Cash at JPMorgan Presumed Its Own, Freeh Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-12-13T01:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/mf-global-cash-at-jpmorgan-presumed-its-own-freeh-says.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. ’s
$25.3 million in cash held at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is presumed
to be its own, the bankrupt company’s Chapter 11 trustee said in
response to customer objections to its bid to use the money.  MF Global Holdings should be allowed to use the cash
collateral of JPMorgan, trustee Louis J. Freeh said in papers
filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . Customers of
the company’s failed brokerage, MF Global Inc., had asserted
that the money may have been part of the $1.2 billion believed
to be missing from their segregated accounts.  “The customers have failed to provide this court with any
actual evidence in support of their position,” Freeh said in
court papers. MF Global Holdings owns the New York-based bank
account with JPMorgan, and under New York law, it is presumed
that funds deposited in an account belong to the account holder,
the trustee said.  MF Global Holdings, once run by former New Jersey Governor
and ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-chairman  Jon Corzine , filed
the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a wrong-way $6.3
billion trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s
most indebted nations. About $1.2 billion may be missing from
segregated customer accounts, according to James Giddens, the
trustee liquidating the MF Global brokerage.  Cash Talks  The company has been in talks with JPMorgan, its largest
lender, on the use of cash collateral to pay the costs of its
bankruptcy, a lawyer for Freeh said last week. U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Martin Glenn said Dec. 9 that he would reconsider the use
of cash at a hearing Dec. 14 after customers objected.  JPMorgan, agent to a $1.2 billion loan, agreed at the
outset of MF Global Holdings’ bankruptcy to let it use $26
million, subject to an agreement that gives the bank a lien on
all of the company’s assets.  In a separate court filing today, attorneys for Giddens
said that the trustee’s law firm had ended its one
“insignificant” active representation of JPMorgan and prior
work for the bank in the bankruptcy case of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. was unrelated to the debtor and wouldn’t
constitute “representations of interests adverse to the
estate.”  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP is a current client and auditor
of Giddens’s law firm, and the relationships are such that the
firm “will not be adverse to” the accounting company, the
attorneys said. Two of the ten secured credit facility lenders
are or may become current clients of Giddens’s firm, they said.  $300 Million Loan  It isn’t yet known whether JPMorgan or
PricewaterhouseCoopers are creditors of MF Global Inc.,
Giddens’s lawyers said. It’s believed that lenders under a
$300 million loan to MF Global’s parent, for which JPMorgan was
agent, were fully secured, the lawyers said. Giddens’s firm can
sue JPMorgan if a potential dispute arises; any legal action
against PricewaterhouseCoopers would be handled by a “conflicts
counsel,” they said.  Lawyers for Giddens are seeking a determination by a judge
that Giddens can handle the case disinterestedly.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  