-- 
Fernandez Spurns Argentine Inflation Targets, Vows Second-Term Jobs Focus

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 
2011-12-12T17:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/fernandez-spurns-argentine-inflation-targets-vows-second-term-jobs-focus.html
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, facing the fastest inflation among major
economies after  Venezuela , started her second four-year term
vowing to focus on job growth and competitiveness.  Fernandez said at her Dec. 10 inauguration that European
Union governments are facing a debt crisis similar to what
 Argentina  experienced in 2001, when it defaulted on $95 billion
of bonds. She said EU leaders have focused too much on inflation
targets and the health of the financial sector, over what she
called the real economy.  “We have governed with targets for  employment growth  and
we’ll continue to do so,” the 58-year-old Fernandez, wearing
the blue and white presidential sash, said at the Congressional
building in Buenos Aires. “I’m not president of the
corporations, but of all 40 million Argentines.”  Since Fernandez took office in December 2007, annual
economic  growth  has averaged 5.6 percent and unemployment fell
to 7.2 percent. Aided by surging soybean exports and growth in
neighboring  Brazil , Fernandez used record government revenue to
increase spending on public works, raise pensions and provide
subsidies to poor families. That helped fuel a consumer boom and
annual  inflation  economists estimate is 25 percent.  “The main problem that should be resolved is inflation,”
said Nestor Walenten, head of the country’s real estate chamber.
“Once we manage to control inflation, the country will be able
to keep on the growth path and workers will have more purchasing
power.”  The government says annual inflation is 9.7 percent.  Land Law  Fernandez used her inauguration to call on Congress to pass
a law restricting the purchase of agricultural land by
foreigners, a bill the lower house will debate this week. She
also said greater regional integration helped the country get
through the 2008-2009 global financial crisis.  “We know that regional integration is one of the best
defenses in a difficult world,” Fernandez said as the
presidents of Brazil, Uruguay,  Bolivia  and  Chile  looked on. “We
need to protect what we have achieved in recent years.”  The lawyer and mother of two referred to her late husband
and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , throughout her speech. Absent
from the ceremony was President  Hugo Chavez  of Venezuela, who
has undergone treatment for cancer this year. Chavez canceled
his plans to attend the ceremony Dec. 9, saying he needed to
deal with heavy rains in his country.  As a result of the global economic crisis and a slowdown in
neighboring Brazil, Argentina’s economic growth will slow to 4.3
percent from 7.5 percent this year, according to the median
estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Signs of a Slowdown  Some sectors are already showing signs of stalling.
Contracting vehicle demand in Brazil, the main destination for
Argentine car shipments, led auto exports to slip 18 percent in
November from a year ago. Industrial production in October rose
4.1 percent from a year earlier, the slowest pace in two years.  “There are a lot of challenges from an environment that is
anything but calm,” Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino told
reporters after the inauguration. “The agenda remains the same:
boost employment, promote growth with social inclusion,
strengthen internal markets, maintain the budget and trade
surpluses, manage the  exchange rate  to make it competitive and
continue the process of industrialization.”  Finance Secretary  Lorenzino, 39, helped manage last year’s debt restructuring
and accompanied Fernandez to a November summit of G-20 leaders
in  France . He appointed former deputy finance secretary Adrian Cosentino to be Finance Secretary.  Lorenzino’s appointment “increases the possibility” that
Argentina will sell bonds next year, Sebastian Vargas, an 
analyst at Barclays Plc in  New York , wrote in a Dec. 6 report.
A return to global credit markets would be a first since
the country defaulted on $95 billion of bonds in 2001.   Fernandez also said she’ll create an office focusing on
foreign trade within the Economy Ministry, where Interior
Commerce Secretary Guillermo Moreno oversees a similar
department coordinating domestic policies, including inflation.
Former national statistics institute chief Beatriz Paglieri, a
Moreno ally, was named to head the new office.  A weakening peso and the surge in consumer prices led
Argentines to pull $18 billion out of the economy in the first
nine months of 2011, double the pace of a year earlier,
according to the central bank.  Foreign Exchange Controls  Fernandez has sought to stem the losses since her Oct. 23
election by ordering companies to repatriate foreign investment
and export revenue and tightening controls over the foreign
exchange market. She has also prodded companies such as
Volkswagen AG to increase their investments in the country and
to manufacture more goods locally.  “The government will continue to react to growing
macroeconomic imbalances, especially inflation and deteriorating
fiscal and external accounts by doubling down on heterodox
policies and more state regulation and pressures on the private
sector, all of which will do little to solve them,” said  Daniel
Kerner , an analyst at the Eurasia Group, in a Dec. 6 report.  Fernandez’s efforts to reduce subsidies, limit salary
increases and restrict access to the foreign exchange market
risk alienating a broader range of voters, said Mariel Fornoni,
director of Buenos Aires-based pollster Management & Fit. Yet
given the size of her October election victory, Fernandez can
press ahead with difficult measures to fix the economy, Fornoni
said.  Falling Reserves  Without access to global markets, the government has turned
to the national pensions agency for financing, and tapped
central bank  reserves , which fell to $46.4 billion on Dec. 7
from $56.2 billion in January, to help pay its foreign debt.  Central bank reserves are strong given that the country has
spent more than $40 billion of savings since 2009 paying off
debt and defending the peso, Fernandez said. Lowering the
country’s debt burden has been worth the cost, the president
said.  Argentina’s debt before its 2001 default “was a weight
that prevented us from growing, a weight that generated misery
and tragedy,” she said. “Today other countries face the same
problem and we see what is happening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Faries in Buenos Aires at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  