-- 
Firing Fades Without Hiring in U.S. as Obama Pushes Payroll Tax Extension

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-12-12T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/firing-fades-without-hiring-in-u-s-as-obama-pushes-payroll-tax-extension.html
Joblessness in the U.S. has declined
far less than firings since the recession ended in 2009,
creating a record divergence that shows companies lack the
confidence to hire.  At 8.6 percent in November,  unemployment  has fallen 1.5
points from a 26-year high of 10.1 percent in October 2009. By
contrast, claims for jobless benefits, which track staff cuts,
have decreased 40 percent since peaking at an  average 
652,500 in the four weeks ended March 27, 2009, to 393,300 in
the period ended Dec. 3.  Scarce jobs represent a threat to household incomes that
risks pushing the world’s largest economy into a self-
reinforcing cycle of meager gains in spending and employment.
That is one reason President  Barack Obama  is pushing to extend a
payroll tax cut that he says will spur purchases and push
employers to look for more help.  “The pace of hiring is just so much below prior norms,”
said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP
Paribas in New York. “There’s just a lack of demand in the
economy. That explains the wedge between the jobless claims and
the unemployment rate.”  The number of people filing jobless claims per week on
average every month dropped to less than 3 percent of the total
number of unemployed Americans this year for the first time
since records began in 1967, according to figures from the Labor
Department.  Payrolls, Claims  Employers added 120,000 workers to payrolls in November
after a 100,000 gain the previous month, Labor Department
figures show. Initial jobless claims tend to fall as job growth
-- measured by the monthly non-farm employment report --
accelerates.  Unless lawmakers act by Dec. 31, the Social Security
payroll tax -- which was cut to 4.2 percent in 2011 -- will
return to 6.2 percent. Republicans are split over whether the
 tax cut  should be extended and, if so, how its $185 billion cost
in forgone revenue should be covered. Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said Dec. 7 that his chamber
won’t adjourn for the holidays until an agreement is reached.  Even with an extension of the payroll tax cut, the gap
between unemployment applications and the jobless rate would
narrow only slightly, according to  Drew Matus , a senior U.S.
economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
Temporary tax reductions make it difficult for households to
draw up budgets, and the government should also consider
multiyear cuts for businesses to stimulate employment, he said.
Employers pay a 6.2 percent payroll tax in the first $110,100 of
a worker’s wages.  ‘Cautious’ Hiring  Employers “are being extraordinarily cautious and they’re
not doing a lot of hiring,” said Matus. At the same time, he
said “absent some sort of significant further downturn, they’re
unlikely to dramatically ramp up the firing process” because
they have already made adjustments to headcounts.  Companies like  Eaton Corp. (ETN) , the maker of products for
industrial and construction markets, say they will limit hiring
next year as they watch the financial crisis in  Europe  and talks
to curb the  U.S. budget deficit .  “Because of that uncertainty in the U.S., we are being
cautious here,” Richard Fearon, chief financial officer at the
Cleveland-based manufacturer, said in a Dec. 7 conference call
with analysts. “You will see us offering very conservative
headcount plans, conservative  capital spending  in Europe. And I
think you will see most companies taking that course of
action.”  Repairing Finances  Maintaining the lower payroll tax rate next year would help
households repair finances sooner as the housing market
struggles to recover. Net worth for households and non-profit
groups decreased by $2.45 trillion to $57.4 trillion from July
through September, according to a Federal Reserve report last
week, as the European debt crisis depressed stocks and home
values decreased.  The overall employment gap represents a divergence from
2002, when the U.S. was emerging from an eight-month economic
slump.  “The amazing feature of the last recession was how well
 consumer spending  held up,” BNP Paribas’s Coronado said. “We
were in the midst of the housing boom. Well, consumer spending
held up because we were taking out home-equity loans. Now we’re
deleveraging.”  Failure to extend the tax cut would subtract 0.5 percent
from gross domestic product in 2012, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s New York-based chief U.S. economist,  Michael Feroli .  Spending Forecast  Not extending the cut would cause consumer spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, to stagnate in the
first three months of 2012 after expanding at a 3 percent annual
rate this quarter, Feroli said.  Some economists said that while employers want to add to
their payrolls, they just can’t find qualified help.  “What’s going on here is a mismatch of the skills of the
unemployed and at least some of the positions that are becoming
available,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in  New York . “This seems to be slowing the pace of
filling those job openings.”  Also contributing to the lack of hiring, according to UBS’s
Matus: extending  unemployment benefits  diminishes the incentive
to look for work.  The Labor Department’s November jobs report showed an
increase in long-term unemployment. The number of people without
work for 27 weeks or more rose as a percentage of all jobless,
to 43 percent from 42.4 percent.  ‘Generous’ Benefits  “If you increase or extend unemployment benefits, it tends
to increase the unemployment rate,” Matus said. “People are
staying unemployed for longer than they typically would have in
order to continue collecting more generous unemployment
benefits.”  Not all economists share that view.  “Spending of unemployment insurance benefits stimulates
the economy and demand for goods and services and thereby
generates jobs,” said Heidi Shierholz, a labor-market economist
at the  Economic Policy Institute , a research group in  Washington 
that supports policies that help lower- and middle-income
workers. “If the extensions of unemployment benefits are
allowed to expire, the economy will lose over half a million
jobs. That clearly will increase the  unemployment rate .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  