-- 
Fitch Says EU Summit Does Little to Ease Pressure on Debt Crisis

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-12-12T18:19:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/fitch-says-eu-summit-does-little-to-ease-pressure-on-debt-crisis.html
Fitch Ratings  said last week’s
European Union summit has done little to ease pressure on the
governments struggling with the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  “The lack of a comprehensive solution has increased short-
term pressure on euro-zone sovereign credit profiles and
ratings,” Fitch said in a statement today. “It means the
crisis will continue at varying levels of intensity throughout
2012 and probably beyond, until the region is able to sustain
broad economic recovery.”  Stocks and the euro tumbled today after Moody’s Investors
Service said the EU summit offered few new measures and doesn’t
diminish the risk of credit downgrades on European nations.
 Standard & Poor’s  placed the ratings of 15 euro nations,
including AAA rated France and  Germany , on review for possible
downgrade on Dec. 5 pending an assessment of the summit.  Fitch said it forecasts a “significant economic downturn
across the region” in the short term and sees growth of 0.4
percent next year. It said the  European Central Bank  can provide
the “only truly credible ‘firewall’ against liquidity and even
solvency crises” either by buying sovereign bonds or allowing
the region’s rescue funds access to its balance sheet.  “Hopes that the ECB would step up its actions in support
of its sovereign shareholders as a quid pro quo for
institutional and legal changes that gave the ECB greater
confidence in the long-run commitment of euro-zone governments
to fiscal discipline appear to have been misplaced,” it said.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said that while the
European accord to limit budget deficits represents
“progress,” the onus is on governments rather than the ECB to
resolve the crisis with financial backing, Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  