-- 
Forecasters Miss by Most in 9 Months as U.S. Improves: Economy

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-12-12T15:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/forecasters-miss-by-most-in-nine-months-amid-improving-u-s-data-economy.html
U.S. economic data are outperforming
expectations by the most in nine months, a trend  Federal Reserve 
officials may incorporate into their policy statement tomorrow.  The Citigroup  Economic Surprise  Index, a daily measure of
whether economic data is better or worse than economists’
projections, improved to 85.7 on Dec. 2, the highest since March
9, after the Labor Department reported an unexpected drop in the
 jobless rate . The index is calculated on a three-month rolling
basis and weighted for the importance of the indicator.  “Most of the economists are missing the underlying
strength” in the world’s largest economy, said  Joel Naroff ,
president of Naroff Economic Advisors, Inc. in Holland,
 Pennsylvania . The Fed will “modestly upgrade the economic
outlook but change little else.”  November unemployment at the lowest level in more than two
years and manufacturing running at the  fastest pace  in five
months are among data that may dissuade Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  and fellow central bankers from pursuing a third-round
of large scale asset purchases. At the same time, the Fed may
still see “significant downside risks” for the economy as
 Europe ’s financial crisis evolves.  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  New York , said in an e-mail to clients that it’s “not
obvious” policy makers will drop that phrase from their
statement. The Fed’s Open Market Committee “has already been
whistled offsides for optimism a few times in this recovery, and
more recently seems to prefer to err on the side of caution.”  Low in June  Still, the Economic Surprise Index has rebounded since
plunging in June to minus 117.2, the lowest reading since the
recession. A positive reading means that economic figures have
been stronger than the median projections in Bloomberg surveys.  “We get these recurring cycles where people get overly
optimistic or overly pessimistic but as things go this was a
pretty significant one,” said Stephen Stanley, chief economist
at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut .  Stocks dropped as Moody’s Investors Service said it will
review the ratings of all European Union countries and  Intel
Corp . cut its revenue forecast. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell 1.6 percent to 1,234.62 at 10.43 a.m. in New York.  Treasury
securities  rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note
down to 2.01 percent from 2.06 percent late on Dec. 9.  Turkey, which sends almost half its exports to countries in
the European Union, said today its economy grew 8.2 percent in
the third quarter from the same time last year, more than
forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The pace of growth
last quarter was exceeded only by  China  among the Group of 20
economies.  India Production  In  Asia , India’s industrial output shrank for the first
time in 28 months, pushing stocks and the rupee lower on concern
faltering growth will force the central bank to suspend its
fight against inflation. Production at factories, utilities and
mines fell 5.1 percent from a year earlier in October, the
government reported today.  The Labor Department in the U.S. reported Dec. 2 that the
 unemployment rate  last month dropped to 8.6 percent, 0.3
percentage point below the lowest forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 84 economists.  Other figures indicate little need for a third-round of
large scale asset purchases at the Fed’s meeting tomorrow in
 Washington , according to  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  “A couple months ago I would have said yes,” he said.
“Now I’d probably lean toward saying no and the reason is just
the improvement in the data.”  Employment Revisions  In September, the Labor Department reported employment
stagnated in the prior month, adding to concerns that the
world’s largest economy was teetering toward another recession.
Revised figures indicate the pessimism about the labor market
was misplaced. The agency’s revisions show some 104,000 jobs
were added in August.  Combined with updates to September and October, payrolls
increased 231,000 more than initially reported in the three
months after the Labor Department’s revisions. The stronger jobs
figures may help explain the improvement in holiday shopping.  Initial claims for jobless benefits in the week ended Dec.
3 fell to 381,000, the fewest since February, the Labor
Department reported last week.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
increased to 52.7 last month from 50.8 in October, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said Dec. 1. Readings above 50 indicate
expansion, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a gain
to 51.8.  Business Barometer  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s  business
barometer  increased in November to the highest reading since
April as orders and production strengthened.  “What I hear as I talk to different retailers is, number
one, that the retail season has come on through the holiday
weekend somewhat better than they thought,” said  Kenneth
Chenault , chief executive of  American Express Co. (AXP)  at a Dec. 7
conference in New York sponsored by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “A
number of the online retailers that I’ve spoken to over the last
week, and you’ve certainly seen the numbers, have been very
encouraged by what they saw.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  