-- 
Forint Drops to two-Week Low as Premier Orban Cuts GDP Estimate

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-12-12T17:26:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/forint-drops-as-hungary-prepares-for-budget-revamp-on-growth-cut.html
The forint fell to a two-week low
and Hungarian bonds weakened after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
said the 2012 budget needed adjusting based on a slower economic
growth forecast and a weaker currency than previously estimated.  The forint fell 1.6 percent to 306.9 per euro, the weakest
on a closing basis since Nov. 29. The country’s benchmark 10-
year bonds retreated, lifting the yield 20 basis points to 8.93
percent. The benchmark BUX  index (BUX)  of shares rose 0.5 percent to
17,121.96 by the close in Budapest.  The Cabinet, which earlier based the draft budget on the
expectation that gross domestic product would expand 1.5 percent
next year, now forecasts “at most” growth of 0.5 percent
because of lower export demand from the euro area, Orban said in
an interview with state-run television channel M1, broadcast
yesterday.  “The forint started the day by another substantial
weakening,” Gergely Tardos, head of research at OTP Bank Nyrt.,
Hungary’s biggest lender, and colleagues, wrote in a research
report today. “A probable reason for the depreciation is that
Prime Minister Viktor Orban acknowledged at the weekend that the
growth and foreign exchange forecasts used in the budget
planning seem outdated.”  The original budget draft, targeting a deficit of 2.5
percent of GDP, was based on an average forint exchange rate of
268 per euro next year, with alternative scenarios based on
rates of 280 and 300. The new draft must assume a
“significantly” weaker forint rate, Orban said.  Safety Net  Hungary last month lost its investment-grade  credit rating 
at Moody’s Investors Service after it sought assistance from the
 International Monetary Fund  and European Union. Orban reversed
his policy of shunning foreign aid after the forint fell to its
weakest against the euro on Nov. 14 and the government struggled
to raise planned amounts at debt auctions.  The government, which will start negotiations with the IMF
and the EU this week, may be targeting a safety net of as much
as 15 billion euros ($20 billion), Citigroup Inc. said in a
research note dated Dec. 9, citing unidentified government
officials.  “If there is fast cooperation between the two sides in the
negotiations, and that is coupled with a relatively positive
sentiment globally, then the forint may stay below 300 per euro
for longer,” Peter Karsai, a Budapest-based trader at
Commerzbank AG, and colleagues wrote in an e-mail to clients
today.  The cost of insuring  Hungary ’s debt with credit-default
swaps rose to 588 basis points from 575 basis points on Dec. 9,
according to data-provider CMA.  European stocks retreated as Moody’s said it will review
the credit ratings of all countries in the region following last
week’s summit in Brussels.  Hungary won’t rush to sign the fiscal accord agreed to by
euro-area leaders, and it will be guided by national interest as
it deliberates on the matter, Orban said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  