-- 
France’s Coeure Says ECB May Have to Step Up Its Sovereign Bond Purchases

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-12-13T11:52:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/france-s-coeure-says-ecb-may-have-to-step-up-its-sovereign-bond-purchases.html
Benoit Coeure,  France ’s candidate
for a seat on the European Central Bank’s Executive Board, put
the spotlight on its crisis-fighting powers by saying the ECB
might have to buy more sovereign bonds.  Coeure said any bigger ECB bond-buying program, which
economists including Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s  Jacques Cailloux  and Marchel Alexandrovich of Jefferies International
say is needed to help save the euro, would continue to be aimed
at ensuring monetary policy isn’t skewed by the region’s debt
troubles. The ECB would decide “independently” on any such
secondary-market step, he said.  “If we feel there is a deterioration in terms of the
transmission of monetary policy, then we should do more,”
Coeure told a European Parliament hearing yesterday in
Strasbourg, France. “The ECB certainly has to keep its eyes
peeled” for market developments and “should be ready to
adapt.”  Coeure’s first public remarks on monetary policy since
being nominated for the job reopen a debate about central-bank
powers that the French government has sought to expand over
German resistance. The ECB itself has also resisted a bigger
role in the euro-area debt crisis, saying governments must
tackle excessive spending and deepen budget-policy coordination.  Closer Union  Euro-area leaders agreed last week on a blueprint for a
tighter coordination of fiscal policy, seeking to prevent Spain
and  Italy  from being engulfed by troubles that forced  Greece  to
seek an initial rescue in April 2010, pushed Ireland and
 Portugal  into aid programs over the ensuing year and led to a
second Greek bailout in late October.  To help curb borrowing costs of distressed euro-area
governments, the ECB has bought 207.5 billion euros ($274
billion) worth of debt on the secondary market in the past 19
months.  “This policy has had a positive impact on markets,”
Coeure told the 27-nation Parliament’s economic and monetary
affairs committee. “It allowed us to curb gaps that were
growing and it allowed us to protect the value of certain bonds
held within the banking system. So this policy has been an
efficient policy.”  Pragmatic Approach  Coeure, the French Treasury’s No. 2 official and chief
economist, would fill the seat being vacated by Italy’s Lorenzo Bini Smaghi on Jan. 1. France supported Italian  Mario Draghi ’s
successful bid to take over from  Jean-Claude Trichet  as ECB
president on the condition Bini Smaghi step down early to make
way for a Frenchman in the ECB’s six-member executive.  On Dec. 9, after euro-area governments reached their
fiscal-union accord in an all-night negotiating session, Draghi
called the deal “a very good outcome for euro-area members”
without revealing whether the ECB would increase intervention on
the secondary market for sovereign bonds. Coeure signaled any
such step would depend on market developments.  “We have to be pragmatic in this area and do what is
necessary given what is happening on the markets,” he said.  Coeure’s position fits with the direction already set out
by Draghi. Jefferies’s Alexandrovich said the ECB has left the
door open to bigger bond purchases if they are necessary for
monetary policy, particularly if  interest rates  fall further.
The ECB cut its benchmark lending rate last week by 25 basis
points to 1 percent.  ‘Evolving’ Position  “The ECB’s position is most definitely evolving,”
Alexandrovich said in a note to clients. “The ECB will continue
to rule out more aggressive bond purchases until these become
necessary and then the ECB will simply start buying at a faster
rate.”  Coeure, who has previously run France’s debt-management
office, ruled out any ECB talks with governments on the matter.  “You can’t have a decision that would be coordinated
together with the governments because this is monetary policy,”
he said. “The decision would be taken by the ECB and the ECB
alone.”  Any increase in bond buying by the ECB would also have to
fit with its primary goal of ensuring  price  stability, said
Coeure. His bid to join the ECB board was endorsed yesterday by
the Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee,
setting the stage for a vote by the full European Union assembly
tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Strasbourg, France at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  