-- 
Free Markets, Carbon Tax Best Way to Fight Climate Change: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-12T00:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/free-markets-carbon-tax-best-way-to-fight-climate-change-view.html
The Durban  climate-change  talks
ended in what negotiators agreed to call a success. Governments,
including  China  and  India  for the first time, said they would
devise a new global system for curbing emissions of greenhouse
gases and make it operational by 2020. This promise, however,
has uncertain legal force, the form of any new regime is
unclear, and the meeting failed to set any new binding targets.  Don’t be too disappointed. The ambition to replace the
Kyoto Protocol with a similar but truly global set of
quantitative limits in two weeks of talks in  South Africa  was
mistaken all along. In this vital effort, the world needs a new
and more realistic measure of progress.  The U.S., China and India are as reluctant as ever to be
bound to nation-by-nation limits. Even if the governments
meeting in Durban had agreed to them, what would such limits
have been worth? As the about-to-lapse  Kyoto Protocol  showed,
countries can ignore limits as soon as they start to pinch.  Quantity targets enforced by treaty don’t foster effective
cooperation, they hinder it. Politically sensitive questions
about which countries should bear how much of the burden must be
confronted explicitly; failure to do so has stymied this venture
from the start. Moreover, to succeed, measures to curb emissions
need to be sustained for decades. Over such a long span of time,
political and economic circumstances change. Binding emissions
targets are too rigid. Governments that take their commitments
seriously are right to be wary of making promises they may be
unable to keep.  The world’s governments need a framework that will allow
them to build on efforts they’re already making to curb
 greenhouse gases . The aim should be to extend, coordinate and
accelerate those initiatives.  The best instrument for coordinating climate-change efforts
is the price of carbon. The impact of any carbon-abatement plan
-- emission quotas, cap and trade, carbon taxes -- can be
measured by its effect on this price. The aim should be to
equalize worldwide a gradually rising price of carbon.  As a matter of practical politics, this flexibility is
essential. It would allow governments to more easily tailor
their climate-change policies to political and economic
circumstances, altering them on the run if need be. The price of
carbon would provide an international gauge of their abatement
efforts, so that peer pressure could be brought to bear.  For most countries, the simplest and clearest way to hit
the price target would be with an outright carbon tax. The
economic benefits are well known: By letting markets work, a tax
achieves a given amount of emissions abatement at the lowest
cost. The world needs to cap its greenhouse gas emissions, but
there’s no obligation to do this in the most expensive, painful
or disruptive way.  Climate-change campaigners made a great mistake early on in
opposing this approach -- arguing, in effect, that sin should be
prohibited not taxed, and that cuts of a certain size had to be
assured. The cost of this inflexibility is now apparent: Insist
on known and guaranteed cuts in emissions, and the wheels of
international cooperation turn too slowly.  So far, explicit carbon taxes have not been widely adopted
(though where they have been, as in British Columbia, they have
worked). It’s not only environmentalists who aren’t
enthusiastic. In many countries, especially the U.S.,
conservatives are bitterly opposed as well. A carbon tax, after
all, is a tax.  Yet with many countries in a fiscal crisis, a carbon tax is
more attractive than before. A carbon tax could lift some of the
burden from spending cuts and increases in other taxes. As this
sinks in, what was once politically impossible may soon be
merely hard.  Where a carbon tax cannot be done, other methods can be
used. Cap and trade with a price ceiling (where the government
sells additional permits into the market once they are being
traded at a certain price) closely mimics an outright carbon
tax, for example. The effectiveness of this and other approaches
in pressing down emissions can always be measured in terms of
carbon price.  With price rather than quantity as the organizing
principle, international negotiations would still be necessary.
Governments would need to set and maintain a schedule for the
intended price, ensuring that it is high enough to provide an
incentive to cut emissions significantly. These talks, to be
sure, would be contentious. All manner of other agreements would
need to be reached, as well: on the treatment of international
trade, on support for poor countries, on the respective roles of
adaptation and mitigation, and more.  But, fundamentally, negotiators would have greater
flexibility in accommodating and aligning various national
approaches to the world’s most pressing common problem. It is a
compromise with political reality that’s well worth making, and
long overdue.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 