-- 
France’s Biggest Nuclear Breach Raises Alarm as Support for Reactors Wanes

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-12-13T12:13:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/french-nuclear-breach-raises-alarm-amid-debate.html
Just after 6 a.m. on Dec. 5, under
cover of darkness, nine  Greenpeace  activists cut through a fence
at the Nogent-sur-Seine atomic plant 95 kilometers (59 miles)
southeast of Paris and headed for a domed reactor building.  They scaled the roof and unfurled a “Safe Nuclear Doesn’t
Exist” banner before attracting the attention of security
guards. Two remained at large for four hours. On the same day,
two more campaigners breached the perimeter of the Cruas-Meysse
plant on the Rhone, escaping detection for more than 14 hours
while posting videos of their sit-in on the Internet.  The security lapses, described as irresponsible acts by
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , come at a time when debate has
intensified on France’s reliance on atomic power for three-
quarters of its energy needs in the run-up to next year’s
presidential elections. They also pre-empt next month’s release
of the results of safety checks at France’s 58 reactors,
commissioned in the aftermath of the Fukushima tragedy.  “There needs to be a review of the entire security
system,” said French lawmaker Claude Birraux, president of the
parliamentary science committee whose remit includes the nuclear
industry. “There are crazies in this world and that is what I
find the most worrying.”  Greenpeace said its activists exposed the biggest security
lapse to date at the reactors that are operated by Electricite
de  France  SA, since it was the first time the environmental
group was able to target more than one site at the same time.  ‘Total Panic’  “EDF was in total panic,” said Yannick Rousselet, head of
the French nuclear campaign at Greenpeace, who provided an
account of the events, mostly confirmed by EDF. “They couldn’t
deal with the situation.”  Greenpeace says its activists remained inside the Cruas
site for 14 hours before being caught, though EDF has been
unable to verify this.  “The actions by Greenpeace were irresponsible and put in
danger people and sites,” French Industry Minister Eric Besson
told parliament last week.  The government pledged to step up security after the
intrusions, and measures such as installing electric fences and
changing the policy on when force can be authorized are being
considered, according to an official in Besson’s office familiar
with the talks. EDF spokeswoman Jill Coulombez declined to
comment on possible security changes.  EDF shares have  slumped (EDF)  37 percent since the Fukushima
disaster, on concern about the amount of investment needed to
keep French reactors running safely in the coming years. EDF
fell 1.6 percent to 18.355 euros at 1:11 p.m. in Paris today.  Election Pledge  The state-controlled utility has already said that the
annual bill for maintaining its reactors could more than double
by 2015 as it seeks to prolong their lives. At the same time,
the opposition Socialist and Green parties are campaigning to
close 24 reactors by 2025 to cut dependence on atomic power.  France’s nuclear watchdog is due to publish in January the
results of safety checks to establish whether the country’s
nuclear plants are safe to continue following the meltdown at
the Japanese reactor in March. The audits are examining whether
the sites are able to withstand earthquakes, floods and the loss
of power and cooling systems.  Their scope should be widened to test for their ability to
withstand other emergency situations such as terrorist attacks,
plane crashes and computer bugs, according to Greenpeace.  The intruders at Nogent-sur-Seine, who included a
grandfather, were able to get to the roof of the reactor
building from the fence in just 15 minutes, according to
Rousselet.  Slack Security  With just half a dozen security guards protecting large
nuclear installations at any one time, they wouldn’t have been
able to catch “bad” people any more than the Greenpeace
protesters, he said.  Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of the regulator known as the
 Autorite de Surete Nucleaire , argued earlier this year that such
scenarios were outside his remit to examine the plants’
operational capabilities.  Even on this front, EDF came under criticism this month
when Birraux accompanied the watchdog on overnight spot reactor
inspections.  At the Paluel plant on the Channel, regulators tested the
ability of EDF personnel to reconnect power at a reactor after a
failure.  The exercise uncovered faulty equipment, erroneous
instructions on how to carry out the procedure and a missing key
to gain access to crucial controls, according to a  letter  from
the regulator to EDF.  ‘Not Good Enough’  “EDF has to do better,” Birraux said. “Employees were
woken up in the middle of the night and managed to figure out
how to get around all the obstacles to complete the test, but
that’s not good enough.”  Still, EDF has sought to deflect criticism of its security
procedures, saying the  Greenpeace  activists didn’t penetrate the
“highly protected” zones at the reactors where atomic energy
is produced.  The French utility has insisted that the protesters at
 Nogent-sur-Seine  were immediately identified and in some cases
found hiding like “rabbits in a forest.”  “When someone enters your garden, what do you do, do you
shoot at them?” EDF’s Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio 
asked reporters. “We will reinforce security measures that will
make this type of action much more difficult to carry out and
likely more painful.”  The Cruas break-in proved more embarrassing for EDF as the
activists remained hidden near the perimeter fence even as the
company was telling reporters that detection equipment showed no
other intruders were at any of its plants.  “People got into reactor sites, highlighting a real
nuclear safety issue,” said  Chicuong Dang , an analyst at
Richelieu Finance in Paris. “Legitimate questions are now being
asked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  