-- 
U.K. Stocks Decline on Moody’s Euro-Area Review; ENRC Shares Lead Decline

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-12-12T16:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/ftse-100-stocks-decline-on-moody-s-euro-area-review-enrc-shares-lead-drop.html
U.K. stocks (SMI)  declined for the third
day in four as metal prices dropped and Moody’s Investors
Service said it is reviewing all national credit ratings in the
region following last week’s debt-crisis summit.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  slid 4.9 percent after
 Standard & Poor’s  placed its credit rating on review for a
potential downgrade. Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. led losses
in the shares of mining companies.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index fell 101.35, or 1.8 percent,
to 5,427.86 at the close in London. The gauge rose on Dec. 9
after policy makers decided to channel as much as 200 billion
euros ($265 billion) of central-bank loans through the
 International Monetary Fund  to fight the debt crisis. The  FTSE
100 (UKX)  has rebounded 10 percent from this year’s low on Oct. 4. The
FTSE All-Share Index lost 1.9 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index retreated 0.9 percent.  “What’s pushing Europe down is Moody’s worrying after the
debt summit and the rise in Italian 10-year yields,” said
Magnus Dagel, an equity strategist at Nordea Bank AB in
Stockholm.  Moody’s said it will review the ratings of all EU countries
in the first quarter, saying the summit failed to deliver
“decisive policy measures” to end the debt crisis.  ECB’s Role  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann told the Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung that while the last weekend’s
agreement among euro-area leaders represents “progress,” the
onus is on governments rather than the ECB to resolve the
crisis. Separately, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said policy makers will now focus on implementing the accord to
strengthen budget rules as quickly as possible.  China’s export growth slowed in November to the weakest
since 2009. Overseas shipments rose 13.8 percent from a year
earlier, the customs bureau said on Dec. 10. The  trade surplus 
shrank by 35 percent.  Copper declined as much as 2.6 percent on the London Metal
Exchange on speculation that a slowdown in China’s industrial
output will increase stockpiles.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , the copper producer controlled by Chile’s
Luksic family, fell 5.9 percent to 1,156 pence.  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED) , the biggest miner of the metal in India,
retreated 4.2 percent to 1,065 pence.  London Stock Exchange  LSE dropped 4.9 percent to 780 pence. The equity-market
operator that also owns a clearinghouse in Italy may have its
credit rating cut by S&P because Italian banks’ finances are
deteriorating.  The exchange “is materially exposed to unsecured credit
risk to Italian banks,” New York-based S&P said in a report
today. “The creditworthiness of these counterparts has been
deteriorating over the past several months.”  Separately, the exchange agreed to buy the 50 percent of
FTSE International Ltd. that it doesn’t already own from Pearson
Plc for 450 million pounds ($702 million).  ENRC dropped 7.4 percent to 634.5 pence. The company denied
a newspaper report that the U.K. Serious Fraud Office has
launched a formal corruption investigation into the company. The
Sunday Times had said the watchdog had started such an inquiry
and that ENRC had been told to hand over details of an
investigation into operations in Kazakhstan and the Democratic
Republic of Congo.  “The internal audit committee investigations and liaison
with appropriate regulators, including the SFO, is entirely
normal practice for a major company that is serious about
investigating all allegations properly and striving to meet
corporate governance best practice,” ENRC spokeswoman Charlotte
Kirkham said in an e-mail.  Lloyds Banking group Plc (LLOY)  tumbled 8.6 percent to 24.43 pence
as a  gauge of British banks (F3BANK)  fell 3.7 percent.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)  slipped 6.5 percent to 20.56 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  