-- 
German Stocks Drop as Bundesbank Damps Speculation on ECB’s Role in Crisis

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-12-12T16:58:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/german-stocks-drop-as-bundesbank-damps-speculation-on-ecb-s-role.html
German stocks (SMI)  fell after Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann rejected an expanded role for the
 European Central Bank , highlighting fissures among euro-area
policy makers that’ve delayed a solution to the debt crisis.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  paced declines among
European lenders.  EON AG , Germany’s biggest utility, retreated
after Bank of America Corp. downgraded the stock. Infineon
Technologies AG fell as  Intel Corp . cut its fourth-quarter
revenue forecast.  The benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index slid 3.4 percent to 5,785.43 at the
close in Frankfurt. The measure dropped 1.6 percent last week as
the ECB damped speculation it would boost debt purchases,
overshadowing an agreement by the region’s leaders to step up
measures to fight the debt crisis. The broader HDAX Index lost
3.2 percent today.  “Acting on  Europe  is dividing policy makers more than
ever,” said Ansgar Krekeler, a sales analyst at WGZ-Bank AG in
Dusseldorf,  Germany . “The pace of political reforms depends
largely on the pressure from financial markets.”  Weidmann, Germany’s top central banker, told the
Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung that while a European
agreement on Dec. 9 to limit budget deficits represents
“progress,” the onus is on governments rather than the ECB to
resolve the crisis.  Moody’s Review  Moody’s said it will review the ratings of all EU countries
in the first quarter, saying the summit failed to deliver
“decisive policy measures” to end the debt crisis.  Deutsche Bank and  Commerzbank , Germany’s biggest banks,
lost 5.5 percent to 27.97 euros and 7.8 percent to 1.22 euros,
respectively. A gauge of  banking shares  on the Stoxx Europe 600
Index declined 3.9 percent.  EON fell 4.6 percent to 17 euros after Bank of America
downgraded the shares to “neutral” from “buy,” citing
political risk. Rival RWE AG lost 4.3 percent to 26.75 euros.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s biggest steelmaker, dropped 4.7
percent to 17.18 euros, while  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , the second largest,
retreated 4.7 percent to 37.08 euros. Copper, lead, nickel, tin
and zinc all retreated on the London Metal Exchange today.  Infineon, Europe’s second-biggest chipmaker, lost 2.4
percent to 5.74 euros. Competitor Intel said it now expects
revenue to be $13.7 billion, plus or minus $300 million,
compared with a previous estimate of $14.7 billion, give or take
$500 million. Analysts had predicted $14.7 billion, the average
of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Balda AG sank 5.5 percent to 3.12 euros, the lowest since
August 2010, as shareholder Octavian Advisors called for an
extraordinary general meeting to replace the current supervisory
board.  -- Editors: Srinivasan Sivabalan, Andrew Rummer  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  