-- 
Gillard Promotes Shorten to Workplace Minister

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-12-12T02:43:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/gillard-promotes-shorten-to-workplace-minister.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
promoted Bill Shorten to workplace relations minister, tasking
the former union official with helping manage industrial
disputes amid criticism by business of government labor laws.  Announcing her first Cabinet reshuffle, Gillard also
appointed  Greg Combet  as minister for industry, named Tanya Plibersek as health minister and moved Nicola Roxon from the
health portfolio to become the nation’s first female attorney-
general.  “With this new Cabinet in place we will see an important
mix of new energy and talent, as well as wise heads and
experienced heads,” Gillard told reporters in Canberra as she
increased the size of her Cabinet. This gives the government the
“focus and firepower” to pursue its priorities in 2012.  Australia ’s first female prime minister is making changes
to her ministerial line-up as her personal standing jumped in a
Newspoll published Dec. 5 to the highest level since May. The
promotion of Shorten, a lawmaker who helped Gillard depose
former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  in June 2010, comes as
businesses such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  step up criticism of
national labor rules they say make companies less competitive.  “Employers have a winner in Shorten,” said Rick Kuhn, a
political analyst at the  Australian National University  in
Canberra. “He has a background as a leader of the largest
right-wing union in Australia, he’s been in favor of
collaboration and deals with employers and is someone who will
be prepared to hose down, and if necessary, smash workers who
take industrial action.”  Union Role  Shorten takes on the new ministry after serving as
assistant treasurer, a role to be taken by Mark Arbib. Shorten
started work as a solicitor before joining the Australian
Workers’ Union as an organizer in 1994. He was national
secretary from 2001 to 2007 and was elected to parliament in
November of that year.  The AWU was founded in 1886 and represents more than
130,000 workers in agriculture, mining, aviation, construction
and steel industries, according to its website.  Business leaders have intensified criticism in recent weeks
of the Fair Work Act, which was shepherded through parliament
two years ago by then-Employment Minister Gillard, fulfilling
one of the Labor Party’s key pledges in the 2007 election. The
legislation overturned defeated-Prime Minister John Howard’s
“workchoices” policy that favored individual contracts over
group agreements.  Industrial Disputes  Days lost to industrial disputes in the three months ended
Sept. 30 jumped 53 percent from the previous quarter, according
to government data published Dec. 1, as unions pushed for pay
rises and job-security measures.  “Australian industrial relations may be deteriorating,”
 Mike Smith , chief executive officer of  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , the nation’s fourth-largest lender, said in
an interview with Bloomberg News last month. “Policy for all
sorts of reasons has not necessarily gone the right way.”  BHP CEO Marius Kloppers said in an interview with the
Australian Financial Review last week that the current system
makes it easier for workers to strike.  Criticism of the 2009 labor law has increased since  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN)  grounded its main fleet on Oct. 29 to force a
resolution of a dispute with workers. Chief Executive Officer
Alan Joyce said that weeks of sporadic stoppages by workers
demanding higher wages and job security guarantees had allowed a
“slow bake” of the carrier.  BHP, the nation’s biggest miner, and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
local unit have also been hit by strikes in recent months.  The reorganized Cabinet follows a decision by the Minister
for  Small Business ,  Nick Sherry , to resign from the position.
Sherry cited his length of service as a minister and the
challenge of holding such a job with a young family. He will
remain as a senator for Tasmania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  