-- 
Gilts Rise as Stocks Decline While Moody’s Says Euro-Region Risks Remain

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-12-12T16:40:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/gilts-rise-as-stocks-decline-while-moody-s-says-euro-region-risks-remain.html
Gilts rose, with 10-year yields
dropping to a record, on speculation the measures agreed at last
week’s European Union summit will fail to end the region’s debt
crisis. The pound rose to a nine-month high versus the euro.  Two-year yields also approached an all-time low as Moody’s
Investors Service said the summit didn’t diminish the risk it
will cut the ratings of euro-area nations. Gilts also advanced
as economists said a U.K. report tomorrow will show an index of
 house prices  dropped for the third time in four months, adding
to concern the economy is sliding back into a recession.  “On a relative basis, there’s still going to be demand for
gilts,” said Vatsala Datta, a London-based interest-rate
strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets. “The risk of
recession remains.”  The 10-year yield fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 2.09 percent at 4:40 p.m.  London  time after
dropping to 2.07 percent, the least since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in 1992. The 3.75 percent bond due September
2021 gained 0.62, or 6.20 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,563) face
amount, to 114.51.  Two-year yields slid four basis points to 0.36 percent.
They declined to 0.317 percent on Dec. 8, also the lowest since
at least 1992.  The agreement announced by European leaders after their
Dec. 9 summit in Brussels contained few new measures, Moody’s
said in its Weekly Credit Outlook.  “In the absence of any decisive policy initiatives that
stabilize credit-market conditions effectively, our intention as
announced in November is to revisit the level and dispersion of
ratings during the first quarter of 2012,” the company said.  Gilt Returns  Gilts have returned 15 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Investors bought the securities as
an alternative to assets denominated in the euro as European
Union leaders struggled to solve a debt crisis that has forced
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  The  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors will say its
house-price gauge fell to minus 25 last month from minus 24 in
October, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
 Nationwide Building Society  will say this week that its index of
U.K.  consumer confidence  stayed at a record low in November, a
separate survey showed.  Asset Purchases  The Bank of England’s first round of asset purchases in
2009 and 2010 may have had less impact on gilt yields than the
central bank estimated, according to the  Bank for International
Settlements .  The 200 billion-pound program lowered yields by as much as
74 basis points, the BIS said in its quarterly review yesterday.
That compares with an estimate by the  Bank of England  the
measure reduced yields by 100 basis points.  The U.K. central bank started a new round of  bond purchases 
in October and some policy makers have said more stimulus may be
needed. The BIS said further measures may have a limited utility
because bond yields are already “very low,” while the effect
is smaller the longer the programs last.  The pound appreciated 0.9 percent to 84.68 pence per euro
after rising to 84.55 pence per euro, the strongest level since
Feb. 23. The currency weakened 0.4 percent to $1.5604.  Sterling has depreciated 1.3 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes
which track 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 3.7
percent and the yen climbed 1.1 percent.  “Quantitative easing is likely to be revisited at some
point in 2012,” said  Neil Mellor , a strategist at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. in London. “Even if we don’t see quantitative
easing in the first few months, we’ll definitely get references
to it and reminders that they are willing to step in if they
have to, and that’s not going to help sterling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  