-- 
Gingrich Pledges ‘Personal Fidelity’ to Family Group in Iowa

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-12-13T05:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/gingrich-pledges-personal-fidelity-.html
Seeking to address concerns about
his personal life and commitment to social conservative causes,
 Newt Gingrich  pledged in a letter to an Iowa advocacy group that
he would “defend and strengthen the family.”  It was part of Gingrich’s efforts to lobby for the
endorsement of the Family Leader, a coalition of social
conservatives in the state where caucuses kick off voting in the
Republican presidential race three weeks from today.  So far, evangelical Christians and social conservatives
haven’t coalesced around a single candidate as they did in 2008,
when former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  rode their support
to win the Republican caucuses in Iowa.  Gingrich’s three marriages and the extramarital affair he
had with his current wife, Callista, concern some evangelical
voters as signaling ethical weakness. They also say they worry
his personal life might hurt his electability in a 2012 race
against President  Barack Obama . And some have questioned the
degree to which he supports their agenda.  In a copy of the letter made public by Family Leader
yesterday, Gingrich said he would “uphold the institution of
marriage through personal fidelity to my spouse and respect for
the marital bonds of others.”  Marriage Law  Gingrich also said he would “vigorously enforce the
Defense of Marriage Act, which was enacted under my leadership
as Speaker of the House, and ensure compliance with its
provisions, especially in the military.”  The 1996 act defines marriage as being between a man and a
woman and prohibits the federal government from recognizing
same-sex marriages for purposes of taxes, Social Security and
other federal programs. Obama’s administration announced earlier
this year it wouldn’t defend the measure in court.  Gingrich so far hasn’t signed a 14-point  pledge  that Family
Leader has promoted this year that includes opposition to same-
sex marriage and abortion rights, as well as putting women “in
forward combat roles.” The pledge also calls for recognizing
that “robust childbearing and reproduction is beneficial to
U.S. demographic, economic, strategic and actuarial health and
security.”  Planned Parenthood Funding  In his letter, Gingrich wrote that “life begins at
conception,” and that he would take federal funding away from
Planned Parenthood and “transfer the money so it is used to
promote adoption and other pro-family policies, and enact
legislation that provides greater protections for the unborn.”  Three of the Republican presidential contenders seeking the
group’s endorsement have signed the pledge: U.S. Representative
 Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and
former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania .  Last month, the group said it had narrowed the field of
candidates it might endorse to those three, plus Gingrich.  “We are pleased that Speaker Gingrich has affirmed our
pledge and are thankful we have on record his statements,” Bob
Vander Plaats, the group’s president said in a statement.  Social conservatives are a powerful bloc within the
 Republican Party  in Iowa, where Jan. 3 caucuses start the
party’s nomination process. In 2008, exit polls showed 60
percent who attended the party’s caucuses described themselves
as born-again or evangelicals.  Debate Response  Gingrich, 68, the leader in the polls in three of the first
four states to vote in the Republican race, was asked at a Dec.
10 debate in  Iowa  about his three marriages. He said his
personal life should be viewed in its entirety, a position he’s
taken in interviews with evangelical radio talk-show hosts and
others during his presidential candidacy.  “I’ve made mistakes at times,” he said at the debate.
“I’ve had to go to God for forgiveness. I’ve had to seek
reconciliation. But I’m also a 68-year-old grandfather. I think
people have to measure who I am now and whether I’m a person
they can trust.”  Perry, who has focused on social conservatives in his Iowa
campaign, indirectly took a shot at Gingrich when asked at the
debate whether infidelity should disqualify someone for the
presidency.  “If you cheat on your wife, you’ll cheat on your business
partner,” he said.  Gingrich, who has converted to Catholicism since marrying
Callista, often talks about the importance of faith in his life
during his campaigning. In Iowa last year, he helped obtain seed
money for an effort to oust three state  Supreme Court  justices
who had ruled in favor of gay marriage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Des Moines , Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  