-- 
Gingrich Tax Plan Would Add $1.3 Trillion to Deficit, Study Says

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-12-13T05:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/gingrich-plan-yields-deep-tax-cuts-for-top-earners-study-finds.html
The tax plan proposed by Republican
presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich  would add $1.3 trillion to
the  U.S. budget deficit  in 2015 alone, a new analysis shows,
complicating his goal of balancing the government’s books.  The  analysis  by the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center compares
the federal government’s take under Gingrich’s proposal with
projected U.S. revenue if current tax law ran its course and
existing income tax cuts expired as scheduled after 2012.  The study found that Gingrich’s plan to lower the top
individual rate to 15 percent and eliminate taxes on capital
gains and estates would push federal revenue for 2015 below the
government’s fiscal 2011 collections as a share of the economy.
Federal revenue is near postwar lows because of the economic
downturn.  “It blows a huge hole in the deficit,” said  Roberton Williams , a senior fellow at the center, which released the
report yesterday in Washington.  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates that the
government will collect $3.7 trillion in 2015, meaning that
Gingrich’s tax plan would result in a 35 percent cut in federal
revenue and a $1.5 trillion  deficit , assuming no additional
spending cuts or economic growth spurred by the tax cuts.  Gingrich’s plan would leave enough money to cover the cost
of so-called mandatory spending, a category that includes
Medicare, Medicaid and  Social Security , along with part of the
interest on the  U.S. debt . Dedicating the money for those
purposes wouldn’t leave any funds for defense spending or any
other federal agency.  Counting on Growth  R.C. Hammond, a Gingrich spokesman, said the candidate’s
plan will spur the type of economic growth that creates jobs.  “The more people working, the more revenue being
generated, a scenario not accounted for by the  Tax Policy
Center ,” Hammond said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Gingrich’s plan would create an optional 15 percent flat
tax with a per-person deduction of $12,000. He would drop the
corporate tax rate to 12.5 percent from 35 percent and allow
businesses to write off capital expenses. Gingrich also proposes
removing the tax increases enacted in the 2010 health-care law
and eliminating levies on capital gains and estates, according
to his  website .  Gingrich said his plan would lead to economic expansion.  “It starts very simply -- taxes, lower taxes, less
regulation, an American energy plan, and actually be positive
about people who create jobs,” he said during a Dec. 10 debate
in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , where he outlined his proposals on
corporate, estate and  capital gains  taxes. “Those steps would
begin to dramatically create jobs.”  Tax Cuts  Under Gingrich’s plan, the analysis found, 70 percent of
households would receive a tax cut, compared with what they’re
paying now. The top 1 percent of taxpayers, who earn more than
$629,809, would receive an average tax cut of $343,993 in 2015.
That change would boost their after-tax income by 25.5 percent
and put their average federal tax rate at 12.8 percent. The top
0.1 percent, or households with incomes exceeding $2.9 million,
would get an average tax cut of $1.9 million.  Gingrich’s plan would cut taxes for people in all income
groups and raise them for no one. For households earning between
$50,000 and $75,000 a year, 91.3 percent would receive tax cuts
averaging $1,847, boosting their after-tax income by 3.1
percent. Among the 20 percent of households earning less than
$19,342 a year, many don’t pay income taxes or have income tax
credits that outweigh their payroll taxes. Under Gingrich’s
plan, 26.9 percent of those households would receive a tax cut
and their average federal tax rate would drop to 1.4 percent.  Leading in Polls  Gingrich, 68, the former speaker of the U.S. House of
Representatives, is leading the 2012 Republican presidential
field in some national  polls .  His campaign declined to provide details on assumptions
underlying the tax plan to the Tax Policy Center. Using
Gingrich’s statements, the center assumed that Gingrich would
continue deductions for mortgage interest and charitable
contributions along with existing corporate tax breaks and tax
credits for children and low-income workers.  The calculations yield slightly different results if all
taxpayers were to face the 15 percent flat tax as opposed to
choosing each year between the two tax systems.  Adam Geller, a Republican pollster in  New York , said the
desire for a quick fix to the country’s economic woes could
benefit Gingrich.  Frustrated Base  “Most of the Republican base is so frustrated with what we
would term Obamanomics, or big  government spending , that a push
from the other direction that sounds like it’s of equal force
sounds mightily appealing,” he said.  The Republican candidates are competing to offer
politically attractive proposals, said Marc Goldwein, policy
director for the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a
bipartisan group that advocates for budget discipline, and a
former aide to the deficit-reduction supercommittee.  “Unless there are spending cuts to more than match those,
there will be an increase in the debt,” he said. “We’re not
going to be able to afford a huge, new unpaid-for tax cut. It’s
just not in the cards until we deal with this debt situation.”  Gingrich’s main rival for the Republican nomination, former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, has proposed extending
current tax rates, cutting the corporate rate to 25 percent and
eliminating taxes on investment income for households earning
less than $200,000 a year.  Perry Plan  Texas Governor Rick Perry has proposed an optional 20
percent flat tax that would deny some deductions for households
with annual incomes exceeding $500,000. The Tax Policy Center
found that Perry’s plan would cut revenue by 27 percent in 2015.  President  Barack Obama  proposes to allow the Bush-era
income tax cuts to expire only for individuals earning more than
$200,000 and married couples earning more than $250,000. He
would raise the top tax rates for capital gains, dividends and
estates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  