-- 
Global Sweet Spot in Tech Stocks as Net Estimate Falls Least

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-12-12T21:09:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/global-sweet-spot-in-computer-stocks-after-11-profit-estimate-falls-least.html
Profit  forecasts  for computer and
software makers are holding up better than any industry in the
world, a sign of confidence that corporate spending will keep
the American economy expanding next year.  Net income at companies from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
will rise 11 percent in 2012 on average, according to more than
2,900 analyst projections compiled by Bloomberg. The profit
estimate is down 2.3 percent from its peak this year, the
smallest reduction of any industry in the MSCI World Index.
Utility  forecasts (MXWO0IT)  were cut the most at 29 percent.  The resilience in technology, which accounts for more of
the  U.S. market (SPXL1)  than any other industry, underscores optimism
that the American economy is recovering even as Europe’s debt
crisis spreads and China’s growth slows. Bears say estimates for
record profits are too high and investors risk the same losses
they suffered in 2000 and 2007, when computer-related shares
began declines exceeding 56 percent.  “Technology companies are being helped by the dramatic
improvement in the health and profitability of corporations,”
 Stephen Wood , who helps oversee about $163 billion as the New
York-based chief market strategist for Russell Investments, said
in a telephone interview on Dec. 9. “When the market finally
has the time to assess fundamentals, IT stocks will be one of
the sectors that will benefit.”  Intel Cuts Forecast  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 1.5 percent and the
MSCI World lost 1.6 percent today as Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings said last week’s summit did little to ease
pressure on Europe’s struggling governments.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  led
losses in technology companies, dropping 4 percent, after
cutting its fourth-quarter revenue forecast.  Capital spending at U.S. companies is the highest since
2008 and investment in equipment and software climbed at a  15.6
percent  annual pace in the third quarter, according to the
Commerce Department. Technology expenditures may climb 3.9
percent to $2.7 trillion in 2012, research firm Gartner Inc.
said Oct. 17.  Concern Europe’s debt crisis would trigger a global
recession dragged equity markets in 37 of the 45 countries in
the MSCI All-Country World Index into bear markets in 2011, or
declines of 20 percent from a peak. The  S&P 500  lost 19 percent
between April 29 and Oct. 3 before paring the slump to 8
percent.  Lower Valuations  Technology stocks are trading at lower valuations than
drugmakers or housewares suppliers. Computer and software makers
in the MSCI World are priced at 14.6 times reported earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The industry has a so-
called PEG ratio, an indicator popularized by Fidelity
Investments’  Peter Lynch , of 0.87.  The PEG ratio, found by dividing the price-earnings
multiple by estimates for profit growth over the next three
years, for health-care providers in the MSCI gauge is 1.11.
Household product-makers trade at 1.49 and the full index is
valued at 1.11. The closer the ratio is to 0, the cheaper the
company.  “They’re at very reasonable valuations,” Tom Wirth, who
helps manage $1.5 billion as senior investment officer for
Chemung Canal Trust Co., in Elmira,  New York , said in a
telephone interview on Dec. 7. “The outlook is fabulous for the
tech group, mainly because this is the one area where businesses
feel they need to invest.”  Better Performance  The MSCI World slipped less than 0.1 percent last week
after the  European Central Bank  damped speculation it would
boost sovereign-debt purchases. The gauge of computer-related
shares increased 0.7 percent in the past five days, the second-
biggest advance among 10 industries, to pare its decline for the
year to 0.8 percent.  Some of the smartest investors are buying technology
companies.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chief executive
officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . in Omaha, Nebraska, spent
more than $10 billion on shares of  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , making the company his second-biggest  holding .  While analysts have boosted 2012 profit estimates for the
world’s largest computer-services provider by 6.5 percent, the
shares are valued at 9.5 percent below the average from the past
decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Armonk, New York-based
IBM climbed 2.6 percent last week to a record $194.56, bringing
its 2011 gain to 33 percent.  SAP (SAP) ’s Targets  Estimates for 2012 income at Redwood City, California-based
Oracle and  SAP AG , which develop business software, have
increased more than 4.6 percent this year, according to
analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. SAP is poised to meet
 earnings targets ,  Bill McDermott , the Walldorf, Germany-based
company’s co-chief executive officer, said in a Nov. 29 webcast.  Projections for technology companies have fallen less than
any other group in the MSCI World this year amid increased
spending on iPhones, tablet computers and digital cameras.
Forecasts for telephone-service operators dropped 9.7 percent
since peaking on May 2, and estimates for  raw-material producers 
and oil suppliers were reduced more than 10.8 percent.  Analysts say computer companies will post more growth next
year than drugmakers or producers of household goods, the only
MSCI World industries with rising share prices this year.
Health-care providers in the global equity benchmark may
increase income by 4.5 percent in 2012, while an index of
grocery store operators, foodmakers and  tobacco companies  will
earn 9.3 percent more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Can’t Live Without’  “People may reduce spending in other places, but they
won’t cut their smartphone,” said Arthur Kwong, the head of
Asia Pacific equities for BNP Paribas Investment Partners, in an
interview from his  Hong Kong  office on Nov. 22. The firm
oversees about $740 billion. “It’s something people can’t live
without.”  Technology stocks  tumbled during the last two bear markets.
The industry lost 56 percent in the 16-month decline triggered
by the U.S. financial crisis beginning in October 2007, about
the same as the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The group plunged 83 percent,
more than any other industry, as the Internet bubble burst from
March 2000 to October 2002.  “If Europe has a really bad outcome, then all bets are off
because then it’s still only the basic consumer staples,
utilities, things that people can’t live without,” Paul Zemsky,
the New York-based head of  asset allocation  for ING Investment
Management, said in a telephone interview on Dec. 7. His firm
oversees $550 billion. “It’s going to be a very, very dire
economic environment.”  Texas Instruments  Germany, France and four other nations may lose their AAA
credit ratings depending on the result of a summit of European
Union leaders on Dec. 9, S&P said on Dec. 5. The European
Central Bank lowered borrowing costs and introduced measures to
stimulate bank lending and fight off a recession after policy
makers met to lay the foundation for closer fiscal union.   Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  predicted fourth-quarter sales last week that
fell short of analysts’ estimates. Shares of the Dallas-based
company have slumped 7.9 percent in 2011. The second-largest
U.S. chipmaker gets most of its revenue from semiconductors that
are key components in everything from missiles to washing
machines.  Sales at electronics stores advanced 3.7 percent in
October, the most since 2009, according to a report last month
from the Commerce Department in Washington. Expectations for
technology spending among U.S. shoppers in November reached the
highest level in 11 months, a gauge compiled by the Arlington,
Virginia-based Consumer Electronics Association showed.  Apple’s Valuation  Apple sold more than 4 million iPhone 4S devices in the
first three days after it was introduced in October, more than
double the number sold last year during the introduction of the
previous model. Analysts’ estimates for the Cupertino,
California-based company’s 2012 profit have risen 54 percent
this year, pushing valuations to 11.3 times projected income.
That’s about 22 percent below the four-year average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cambiar Investors LLC’s Brian Barish said he’s buying
industrials, energy and  technology stocks  on speculation
European leaders will prevent the region’s debt crisis from
worsening into financial turmoil similar to the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  “It seems pretty clear that the euro zone is going to
prevent a Lehman-type situation from happening,” Barish, who
helps oversee about $8 billion as Denver-based president of
Cambiar, said in a Dec. 6 Bloomberg Television interview. “To
the extent they’re able to avoid that, we see a lot of value.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  