-- 
Goldman Sachs’ Asia Vice-Chairman Mark Machin Set to Retire After 20 Years

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-12-12T07:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/goldman-sach-s-asia-vice-chairman-mark-machin-set-to-retire-after-20-years.html
Mark Machin, who ran  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s  investment banking  business in Asia for six years,
is leaving after two decades with the company.  Machin, 45, is stepping down from his position as vice-
chairman for the Asia-Pacific region excluding Japan, according
to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News. Edward Naylor, a
spokesman for the firm in  Hong Kong , confirmed the contents of
the document.  A Goldman Sachs partner since 2002, Machin is considering
taking a position with an investment business, two people with
knowledge of the matter said, asking not to be identified as no
final decision has been made. He will move to Hong Kong from
Beijing in January, one of the people said.  Machin is the most senior manager at Goldman Sachs’s
investment bank in  Asia  to depart since Ravi Sinha, co-head of
the division for the region, stepped down in April 2010. Yusuf Alireza, the New York-based firm’s co-president of operations
for the Asia-Pacific region outside Japan, left last month.  Machin, who trained as a doctor at Oxford University before
joining Goldman Sachs, moved to Beijing from Hong Kong in 2009
to oversee the expansion of the advisory business in China,
which was the world’s biggest generator of initial public
offering fees last year according to researcher Freeman & Co.  Top M&A Adviser  Goldman Sachs is the second-largest arranger of stock and
convertible bond sales overseas by Chinese companies this year
behind Morgan Stanley and is third in advising on mergers, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The firm ranks 29th in the league
table for domestic equity and convertible bond offerings.  For the first time since 2004, Goldman Sachs this year
captured the top spot among arrangers of equity and equity-
linked offerings in the Asia-Pacific region outside  Japan ,
according to Bloomberg data. The firm also ranks first in
mergers advisory in the region.  Machin, who became regional co-head of investment banking
in 2005, stepped down from that position in February. In that
role he had worked with William Wicker, Richard Ong and Sinha,
all former co-heads of investment banking in Asia who left the
firm as partners.  David Ryan, who was previously co-head of investment
banking for Asia together with Machin, became sole president of
Goldman Sachs’s operations in the region when Alireza left.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  