-- 
Goldman Sachs Target as Occupy Protesters Curb Some West Coast Shipping

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n ,   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-12-13T05:30:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/goldman-sachs-top-target-of-occupy-protests-at-west-coast-ports.html
Occupy Wall Street activists
interrupted shipping at some West Coast ports while falling
short of a coordinated shutdown aimed at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , which owns a stake in the largest cargo-terminal operator.  Terminals in Oakland, California;  Portland ,  Oregon , and
Seattle were blocked at least part of the day by protesters,
angering some of the truck drivers and port workers they
professed to support with their demonstrations.  “I just lost $400 today,” said Mark Hebert, a long-haul
trucker for Salt Lake City-based C.R. England Inc., who was
stranded in Oakland with 36,000 pounds of Kansas beef bound for
 Asia . “These people say they represent the 99 percent. They
don’t represent me.”  The protesters, who  targeted ports  from San Diego to
Anchorage, said they wanted to highlight the plight of average
Americans who have suffered from home foreclosures and soaring
 unemployment  while the largest U.S. banks have recovered from
the 2008 financial crisis. “We are the 99 percent,” their
slogan, refers to economist  Joseph Stiglitz ’s research that
found the richest 1 percent of Americans control 40 percent of
the wealth.  “This isn’t about the truckers,” Charles Rachlis, 55, of
El Cerrito, California, said in an interview at the Oakland
protest. “We have to shut down the wheels of capitalism at the
port. This scares the bejesus out of Wall Street.”  The economic value of containerized cargo at West Coast
ports is about $705 million a day, according to Martin
Associates in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania , a consulting firm.  No Second Shift  Some demonstrations continued into the night. As a result,
no longshoremen were dispatched for second shifts in Oakland or
Seattle, said Craig Merrilees, a spokesman for the  International
Longshore and Warehouse Union .  “The terminals did not order ILWU labor for the three
vessels berthed tonight, due to protest activity,” the Port of
Oakland said in a  statement  late yesterday. “Operations at
several of the port’s seven terminals experienced disruptions
and delays today, and a few chose to close early to avoid
further disruption.”  In  Seattle , police used concussion grenades and pepper
spray against a crowd blocking a port entrance after flares,
rebar and paint were thrown at officers on horseback, Captain
Joe Kessler said. At least 11 people were arrested, according to
a police  statement.   The  Port of Long Beach , the second-largest container
handler in the U.S., remained open, according to John Pope, a
spokesman. So did the ports of San Diego; Tacoma,  Washington ;
 Vancouver , British Columbia; and Anchorage, according to their
spokesmen.  New York  Arrests  In New York City, a demonstration in sympathy with the port
protests resulted in 17 arrests for criminal trespass and
disorderly conduct in the area of 225 Liberty Street, the World
Financial Center, police said.  In  Portland , two men who said they were in town for the
Occupy demonstration were arrested with a .40-caliber Glock
handgun and a samurai sword, according to a police spokesman,
Lieutenant Robert King.  About 20 longshoremen in Longview, Washington, were sent
home after concerns “for their health and safety” when 50 to
60 protesters blocked the port’s main gate, said Ashley
Helenberg, a spokeswoman.  “They are targeting the wrong people,” Mike Gardner, 42,
a crane operator from Portland, said in an interview. “The
corporations are still making money today. We are not.”  In Oakland, Jairo Osorio, 43, an independent contractor for
trucker C.R.  England , said he would have to sleep in his truck
overnight and make his delivery today.  ‘Hurting the Company?’  “They were successful in shutting down the port. Hurting
the company? No. All this stuff is waiting to be unloaded
tomorrow,” Osorio said.  Opposition wasn't universal. “As we marched down here,
there were a lot of thumbs-up and honks of support from the
truckers,” said Helen Gilbert, 55, of Seattle, passing out
pamphlets for the group  Radical Women .  Driver Mulugeta Dawit was stuck on the street for about an
hour as he tried to get a truckload of iron to Terminal 5 in
Seattle. He said he didn’t mind.  “I’m happy because those people are demanding rights, and
we should do the same,” Dawit said. “Truck drivers have the
same issues. We barely make any money, but the companies we work
for make millions off of us.”  Taxpayer-Funded Rescue  The port protests are the latest action taken by the Occupy
 Wall Street  movement, which formed in New York in September to
denounce large financial firms that received taxpayer-funded
government rescue packages. The protesters initially erected
tent camps from New York to  San Francisco  that have since been
dismantled by police.  The West Coast protests tried to build on the Occupy
movement’s success in shutting down the Port of Oakland last
month. While that event drew between 7,500 and 10,000
demonstrators, only about 1,500 took part yesterday, according
to Cynthia Perkins, a spokeswoman for the Oakland police.  Doug Seaman, 35, an unemployed construction worker from
Simi Valley, California, who protested at Long Beach, said
demonstrators got there early to disrupt a 7 a.m. shift change.  “It was definitely not business as usual for them,”
Seaman said in an interview. “We need to make the public aware
that Wall Street’s tentacles have infiltrated every facet of our
lives.”  Goldman Sachs  In New York, about 250 protesters congregated at the
southeast corner of Goldman Sachs’ headquarters on West Street
near the World Trade Center. Police cordoned off the front of
the building, admitting only those with identification.  Some demonstrators donned squid hats and carried squid
figures made of umbrellas and papier-mache, a reference to Matt Taibbi’s 2009 article in Rolling Stone magazine calling Goldman
Sachs a “great vampire squid wrapped around the face of
humanity.”  Protesters chanted slogans including, “Everybody pays
their tax, everyone but Goldman Sachs,” and “Take the ax to
Goldman Sachs.”  Los Angeles   protesters  circulated a  flier  -- “Occupy the
Ports! A Day Without Goldman Sachs!” -- featuring a caricature
of Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein steering a ship
loaded with bags of money. The company is part-owner of Carrix
Inc., whose SSA Marine provides cargo handling services as the
largest U.S.-owned container terminal operator.  Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
Goldman Sachs, the fifth biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, declined
to comment on the protest.  Carrix Stake  Goldman Sachs Infrastructure Partners bought a 49 percent
stake in Carrix Inc., a Seattle-based transportation company, in
2007. Carrix owns SSA Marine, which has more than 125 operations
worldwide, including in Los Angeles, Long Beach,  Mexico ,  Chile 
and New Zealand.  “GSIP is primarily made up of pension plans of workers in
the  United States  and  Australia , and those groups hire money
managers to manage their pension funds,” said Bob Watters,
senior vice president at Seattle-based SSA Marine.  “I think they haven’t done their research,” Watters said
of the demonstrators in a Dec. 8 telephone interview. “If they
had, they would understand that we are a union operation, we
support union workers, family-wage projects and make investments
to increase those job opportunities.”  Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history before converting to a bank in 2008, received $10
billion from the U.S.’s  Troubled Asset Relief Program , created
in 2008 after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to
avert a collapse of the U.S. financial system. Goldman Sachs has
since repaid the funds with interest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Oakland,  California  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  