-- 
Google Chairman Says Congress’ Anti-Piracy Bills Are ‘Criminalizing’ Links

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-12-12T22:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/google-chairman-assails-anti-piracy-measures-in-u-s-congress.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt 
assailed Hollywood-backed legislation aimed at curbing online
piracy, saying that measures under consideration by the U.S.
House and Senate would spur censorship of the Internet.  Requiring Internet-service providers and search engines to
remove links to websites accused of trafficking in counterfeit
movies and music would amount to “censorship” and set a bad
example for other countries, Schmidt said today after a speech
in  Washington .  The House Judiciary Committee is scheduled to vote Dec. 15
on a bill supported by movie studios and the recording industry
that would let the U.S.  Justice Department  seek court orders
forcing Internet-service providers, search engines, payment
services and advertising networks to block or cease business
with non-U.S. websites linked to piracy.  “Their goal is reasonable, and the mechanism is
terrible,” Schmidt said during a question-and-answer session
with reporters. “By criminalizing links, what these bills do is
they force you to take content off the Internet. By doing so
it’s a form of censorship.”  Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican and chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee, is moving ahead with the Stop
Online Piracy Act, which he introduced. The measure has the
support of more than two dozen lawmakers in both parties.  ‘Uncertain Liabilities’  The  Motion Picture Association  of America, which backs the
House and Senate bills, said the legislation is needed to
preserve U.S. jobs and intellectual property. The Washington-
based group accused Google’s Schmidt of using “sky-is-falling
rhetoric” to attack the measures.  “There is broad recognition that all companies in the
Internet ecosystem have a serious responsibility to target
criminal activity,”  Michael O’Leary , senior executive vice
president for global policy and external affairs at MPAA, said
in an e-mailed statement. “This type of rhetoric only serves as
a distraction and I hope it is not a delaying tactic.”  Google, Facebook Inc. and other Web companies said in a
Nov. 15 letter that the House measure and a similar bill in the
Senate would create “new uncertain liabilities” for Internet
companies and asked lawmakers to seek “more targeted ways” to
combat “rogue” websites in other countries.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, and Representative
 Darrell Issa , a California Republican, unveiled a draft measure
meant as an alternative to the Hollywood-backed bills. The
Wyden-Issa proposal would give the International Trade
Commission the lead role in fighting foreign websites
trafficking in illegal content and counterfeit goods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  