-- 
Google, Millennial Media Take Mobile Ad Share Away From Apple, IDC Says

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-12-13T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/google-millennial-media-take-ad-share-away-from-apple-idc-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is losing ground to
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Millennial Media Inc. in the U.S. mobile-
advertising industry this year, according to research firm IDC.  Google, which leads the market, will see its share rise to
24 percent from 19 percent in 2010, said Framingham,
Massachusetts-based  IDC . Millennial’s slice will climb to 17
percent from 15 percent, and Apple will decline to 15 percent
from 19 percent, IDC said.  The three companies are the largest competitors in the U.S.
mobile advertising market, which will more than double to $2.1
billion this year, from $877 million in 2010, according to IDC.
Google has solidified its market lead, while Millennial has
assumed the No. 2 position in mobile ads. Apple is missing out
on contracts because it only lets customers advertise on its
devices, said Karsten Weide, an analyst at IDC.  “This is primarily a story about Apple’s weakness,” Weide
said. Many advertisers chose competitors’ ad networks so they
could reach both Apple and non-Apple devices, he said.  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment. A Millennial Media spokeswoman, Mack McKelvey, also had no comment on the report, which she hasn’t
seen. A Google spokesman, Aaron Stein, said the company won’t
comment on third-party research.  Mobile-display ad revenue for 2011 will total $630 million,
while mobile-search ads contribute the larger chunk of the
mobile-advertising market, $1.5 billion, IDC said. Search ads
appear alongside query results, while display ads appear as
banners or short video clips on Web pages.  Google Benefits  Google has been the largest beneficiary of consumers using
smartphones and tablets to access the Internet and view mobile
ads. The company dominates mobile search, with a 91 percent
share. Its combined market share for mobile display and search
ads will rise to 71 percent, up 11 points from last year, IDC
said.  Millennial, meanwhile, has talked to bankers about a
potential initial public offering, people with knowledge of the
discussions said earlier this year.  For 2012, IDC expects the U.S. mobile advertising market to
almost double to $4.1 billion, largely because of Web searches.  “Advertisers have decided that the mobile device is best
suited to search,” Weide said. As for display ads on the
smaller screens on mobile devices, “the impact on the consumer
is considered to be worse than on desktop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  