-- 
Microsoft Replaces Lees as Head of Share-Losing Phone Unit

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-12-12T23:48:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/microsoft-names-myerson-to-lead-windows-phone-lees-shifts-roles.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the largest
software maker, replaced Andy Lees as head of its Windows Phone
Division after losing share to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in the market for
mobile operating systems.  Terry Myerson, a vice president, will take charge of the
division, while Lees takes on a new role, reporting to Chief
Executive Officer Steve Ballmer, Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft said in an e-mail  posted  to its website.  Microsoft’s  share  of the market for mobile-phone operating
systems dropped to 1.5 percent in the third quarter from 2.7
percent a year earlier, according to Gartner Inc. Share for
Google’s Android more than doubled to 53 percent from 25 percent
in the same period. Ballmer, in the blog posting, thanked Lees
“for his contributions to the phone team.”  Myerson will be in charge of operations including Windows
Phone development and marketing, Ballmer said. Lees, who will
retain his title of president, will work with Ballmer on Windows
Phone and the coming Windows 8 software designed for tablets,
the company said.  “They’re trying to deliver this whole seamless experience
across devices and they’re probably better off having one person
trying to oversee that,” said Sid Parakh, an analyst at McAdams
Wright Ragen in Seattle.  Share Losses to Google  Microsoft is aiming to regain share lost to Android and
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone with updated software and a partnership with
handset maker  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)  Apple had 15 percent of the mobile-
software market last quarter, while  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  had
11 percent share, according to Gartner.  Ballmer’s deputies are also working on Windows 8 to run
tablet machines capable of rivaling Apple’s iPad.  Myerson, who joined Microsoft in 1997, had previously
overseen Windows Phone engineering. He was shifted to that role
from Microsoft’s Exchange e-mail product as the company decided
to scrap previous work on Windows Mobile and redo phone software
to better appeal to consumers in the wake of the iPhone’s
success.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  