-- 
Mideast Sectarian Strife Is Symptom of Weak States: Noah Feldman

-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 
2011-12-12T00:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/mideast-sectarian-strife-is-symptom-of-weak-states-noah-feldman.html
For most of Islamic history, Sunnis
and Shiites have managed to get along under the guidance of
strong governments -- mostly run by Sunnis who kept the Shiites
in their place. But when governments are on the edge of
collapse, as in  Iraq  a few years ago and in Syria and
 Afghanistan  today, the old sectarian tensions flare.  The consequences matter not just for victims such as the 63
Shiites killed in Afghanistan on Dec. 6, the Shiite holiday of
Ashura, or the more than 30 unidentified people whose bodies
were dumped in an Alawite neighborhood in Homs, Syria, the same
day. They matter for anyone who wants to see peaceful change in
the Muslim world. Radical transition breeds instability; and
instability has a nasty habit of generating sectarian violence.
Understanding the structure of this violence is the only hope of
preventing it.  The Sunni-Shiite divide started over constitutional
politics and was annealed in violence. When the  Prophet Muhammad 
died, in 632 A.D., some followers believed his most qualified
and virtuous companion should be chosen as commander of the
faithful by the leaders of the community. Others opted for the
principle of descent, preferring Muhammad’s closest relative,
his cousin and son-in-law Ali.  Discord within the close-knit community eventually led to
civil war. In the resulting conflict, the anti-family faction
defeated shi’at Ali, the party of Ali -- and killed Ali and his
heir, Imam Hussein, the Prophet’s grandson.  Ashura Celebrations  Ashura, the Shiite holiday commemorating the martyrdom of
Hussein, recalls these events that happened more than 1,330
years ago. Where Shiites can worship freely, the holiday’s
dramatic ritual marches, in which young men mourn their slain
imam, are symbolic markers of communal pride. A few years back,
before the Sept. 11 attacks, I happened to witness a
particularly moving Ashura march along Park Avenue in  New York ,
which was at once somber and inwardly ecstatic.  In recent years, Afghanistan’s long-oppressed Shiite
minority, who overwhelmingly belong to the Hazara ethnic group,
have been celebrating Ashura in the cities more openly than at
any time in recent memory. Although the country doesn’t have a
particularly pronounced history of Sunni-Shiite violence, the
Hazara have been an oppressed class since the consolidation of
modern Afghanistan in the 19th century. Whatever the many
inadequacies and failures of the U.S.-backed government of
President  Hamid Karzai , it has at least improved the quality of
religious freedom relative to the period of rigidly Sunni
Taliban rule.  Until this week, when a Pakistani terrorist group, Lashkar-
e-Jhangvi, coordinated simultaneous attacks against Ashura
celebrations in Kabul, Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif. The attacks
were taken directly from the playbook of al-Qaeda in
Mesopotamia, which perfected the technique of targeting public
Shiite celebrations in the course of its attempts to provoke a
civil war in Iraq between 2005 and 2008. By killing Shiites,
radical Sunnis aren’t just going after people they consider
heretics. They also hope to radicalize other Sunnis, and to
associate occupation forces with the unpopular empowerment of a
previously oppressed minority.  Beyond these immediate tactical goals, the anti-Shiite
attacks in Afghanistan, like those in Iraq, aim to tell the
world that the official, U.S.-backed government cannot protect
its civilian population, and is therefore not legitimate.  The breakdown lines in Afghanistan are traditionally more
ethnic than religious-sectarian, pitting the mostly Pashtun
Taliban against the Tajik and Hazara communities. Yet the
overall effect of delegitimation is the same as it was in Iraq.  Iraq Surge  The U.S. surge strategy in Iraq helped reduce such attacks.
In Afghanistan, however, the surge is over, and U.S. troops are
decreasing in number, not increasing. The attacks bring home the
reality that Afghan security forces are still some distance from
being able to protect either the Afghan borders or the country’s
populace, if they ever will be.  State weakness is also the immediate cause of sectarian
violence in  Syria . The growing effectiveness of the uprising
against the government of President Bashar al-Assad means that
almost everyone can now imagine the collapse of the last
standing Baathist regime. Under these conditions, what began as
a peaceful protest movement suppressed violently by the state
runs the risk of devolving into civil war.  On one side are the  Sunni Muslims  who make up the majority
of the Syrian population. On the other are the Assad family and
its closest allies in the military and secret police. They,
along with perhaps 3.5 million other Syrians, are Alawites.
Although the point is rarely noted, the Alawites are a type of
Shiite sect. (For example, they celebrate the holiday of
Ashura.) Their name, derived from Ali, indicates that they
venerate Muhammad’s heir beyond the norms of orthodox Shiism --
even to the point of considering him divine. Indeed, the
sectarian-Shiite aspect of the Alawite faith helped facilitate
the Assad regime’s contacts with Shiite  Iran .  Caught in the middle are Syria’s Christians, who like other
such minorities in Iraq and  Egypt  long had little choice but to
rely on dictators for protection. Now they find themselves
associated with a regime for which they had no particular love.
No doubt this is also true of many ordinary Alawites, who
benefited from their position relative to the regime but may not
have had any deep connection to it.  The dumping of bodies in sectarian neighborhoods in mixed
cities such as Homs is another legacy of the worst days of
violence in Iraq. At the height of the troubles there,
terrorists backed by al-Qaeda frequently kidnapped and killed
innocent civilians, using their mutilated remains as messages to
the other side.  In Syria, as in Iraq, one of the goals is to provoke the
other side into all-out violence. It isn’t entirely clear who
would benefit by these particular killings -- whether they were
carried out by extremist Sunnis or by Alawite supporters of the
regime trying to convince the world that civil war is the only
alternative to continued Assad rule.  Either way, the killings are a grim reminder that a
peaceful transition in Syria depends upon decapitating the
regime while preserving the state -- as the U.S. signally failed
to do in Iraq.  Failed states will mean more of the sectarian violence that
claimed thousands of lives there. This time, there will be no
David Petraeus ex machina to bring it under control.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 