-- 
Time Warner Makes $1.3 Billion Revised Bid for ‘Big Brother’ Maker Endemol

-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 
2011-12-12T16:31:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/time-warner-makes-revised-takeover-bid-for-big-brother-producer-endemol.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  made a $1.3 billion
all-cash offer for  Endemol NV  as the Dutch producer of “Big
Brother” television shows seeks to reach an agreement with
lenders over reorganizing its debt.  The revised bid has the same value as Time Warner’s
previous offer, Charles Armitstead, a London-based spokesman for
Endemol, said today. New York-based Time Warner’s earlier offer
of about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) included debt, people
familiar with the matter said last month.  Endemol, whose other formats include “Deal or No Deal”
and “Extreme Makeover: Home Edition,” is reorganizing 2.8
billion euros in debt because widening losses may cause it to
breach covenants on its loans. The Amsterdam-based company
extended a waiver of loan terms last month, which is scheduled
to expire tomorrow.  “The key question now becomes if  Mediaset (MS)  and Clessidra
will come back and try to outbid Time Warner,” said  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in  London .  Shareholder Mediaset SpA and Clessidra Sgr SpA have offered
to inject 200 million euros into Endemol to buy out senior debt
holders, giving them a stake of 51 percent, with the lenders
owning the remainder, a person with knowledge of the matter said
last month.  Mediaset  Mediaset wouldn’t compete for Endemol if it was offered in
an auction, Vice Chairman Pier Silvio Berlusconi said on Nov.
24. A Mediaset spokeswoman declined to comment today.  “I still don’t think Mediaset wants to lose Endemol,”
Aspesi said, “if they get a sense that their partners in
Endemol are interested in selling they will be under some
pressure to figure out what to do.”  Keith Cocozza , a spokesman for Time Warner, declined to
comment.  New York  Post reported the new bid today.  Time Warner fell 1.3 percent to $34.14 at 11:26 a.m. in New
York. Before today, the stock had gained 7.6 percent this year.  Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s Mediaset,
 Mediaset Espana Comunicacion SA (TL5) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Cyrte Fund II BV, an  investment company  founded by John De Mol
bought Endemol in 2007 using  2.8 billion euros  of leveraged
loans, including 325 million euros of mezzanine debt, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Endemol was founded in 1994 by de
Mol and TV producer Joop van den Ende.  ‘Final Stages’  “We remain focused on our discussions with lenders and
these have entered the final stages,” Armitstead said. “We are
confident that a solution that puts the company on a firm
financial footing for the future is now imminent.”  In its earlier offer, Time Warner was ready to put in
working capital of 100 million euros, a person with knowledge of
the matter has said. In a letter to Time Warner last month,
Endemol told the U.S. company that restructuring talks with
lenders remained a priority for the company, people familiar
with the matter have said.  Time Warner, owner of  Warner Bros . and HBO, bought London-
based Shed Media Group, a similar television production company,
for 100 million pounds ($156 million) last year. Shed Media
produces shows such as “Supernanny” in the U.K. and
“Basketball Wives” in the U.S.  As owners of rights to their shows, both Endemol and Shed
Media can license their programs’ concepts to producers in other
countries. Time Warner has made more licensing and digital
distribution deals with companies such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu
LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  