-- 
India’s First Industrial Output Drop Since 2009 Sends Rupee Lower: Economy

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-12-12T07:31:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/india-factory-output-falls-after-two-years.html
India ’s industrial output shrank for
the first time in 28 months, pushing stocks and the rupee lower
on concern faltering growth will force the central bank to
suspend its fight against the fastest inflation in BRIC nations.  Production  at factories, utilities and mines fell 5.1
percent from a year earlier in October, the government reported
today. The slide exceeded the median of 24 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey for a 0.7 percent drop. Output was down
3.3 percent from September, the third decline in four months.  The slump reflects deepening fallout from Europe’s two-year
sovereign-debt crisis, which has led policy makers across Asia
to cut or hold borrowing costs in an attempt to protect their
economies. Chinese export growth was the weakest since 2009 in
November, giving officials at a work conference in Beijing this
week more reason to shift policy focus toward boosting expansion
next year, from curtailing inflation.  “While the Governor of the RBI continues to stress that he
is more concerned about inflation than growth, this is the sort
of number that will surely make him sit up and take notice,”
said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , a Singapore-based economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG. “It would be a surprise not to see a
markedly more dovish tone emerge” at the Reserve Bank of
India’s policy meeting Dec. 16, he said.  The BSE India Sensitive Index fell 1.1 percent even as
Asian equities rose, with  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rising 1
percent as of 4:01 p.m. in Tokyo. The Indian rupee lost 0.8
percent, leading declines in a basket of 10 Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation Rate  India’s inflation rate has exceeded 9 percent every month
this year as the rupee’s 15 percent slump against the  U.S.
dollar  during the period, Asia’s worst performance, adds to the
cost of imported goods.  Consumer prices rose 6.6 percent in  Brazil , 6.8 percent in
 Russia  and 4.2 percent in  China  last month.  RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has raised the repurchase
rate by 375 basis points since the start of 2010, to 8.5 percent,
in the fastest round of increases since the central bank was
established in 1935, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 2.2 percent last week,
as Europe’s struggle to resolve its sovereign-debt turmoil
darkens the outlook for the global economy. Fitch Ratings said
it’s poised to cut growth estimates for Asian nations.  Chinese Conference  In China, officials began today the annual economic work
conference that maps out development plans for the next year,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported. China’s shrinking
trade surplus may encourage Premier Wen Jiabao to keep cutting
banks’ reserve requirements to sustain expansion.  Reports in  Australia  showed the nation’s  trade surplus 
narrowed to A$1.6 billion ($1.63 billion) in October, the least
in seven months, while mortgage lending growth weakened. The
 Reserve Bank  of Australia on Dec. 6 made its first back-to-back
interest-rate cuts since 2009.  Economic expansion has moderated in nations from India to
China to Brazil, adding pressure on policy makers to step up
efforts to support growth.  South Korea’s economy is set to grow at the slowest pace in
three years in 2012 as demand for exports wanes, the nation’s
finance ministry said today. Gross domestic product may rise 3.7
percent next year from 3.8 percent in 2011, and 6.2 percent last
year, it said.  Turkish Growth  Turkey  may today report a 6.3 percent gain in gross
domestic product in the third quarter from a year earlier,
compared with an 8.8 percent pace in three months through June,
according to the median of nine estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  In  Europe ,  Italy  is scheduled to sell 7 billion euros of
365-day bills today, while  France  is due to auction 6.5 billion
euros of short-term debt.  A summit of European leaders in Brussels last week, which
French President Nicolas Sarkozy called the last chance to
rescue the euro from the two-year debt crisis, set a March
deadline to flesh out new fiscal rules.  The meeting also added to funds to protect cash-strapped
economies, with an extra 200 billion euros for the  International
Monetary Fund . Leaders will accelerate the start of a permanent
rescue facility to next year and reassess its 500 billion-euro
cap.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann told the Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung that while the new accord represents
“progress,” the onus is on governments rather than the
Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  to resolve the crisis with
financial backing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  