-- 
India Comments During Near Collapse of Climate Talks in Durban

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-12-12T14:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/india-comments-during-near-collapse-of-climate-talks-in-durban.html
India ’s Environment Minister
Jayanthi Natarajan comments during the near-collapse of United
Nations climate-protection talks in Durban,  South Africa , before
a deal was secured.  India initially refused to sign an agreement that would
bind it to an unwritten treaty and threaten its economy.  The dispute was defused after she spoke when India and the
European Union agreed to substitute language calling for “a
protocol, another legal instrument or a legal outcome” with “a
protocol, another legal instrument or an agreed outcome with
legal force.” The protocol and instrument terms echo the 1995
Berlin Mandate that set the course for delegates adopting the
 Kyoto Protocol  two years later.  Natarajan was speaking to delegates at the talks in the so-
called informal stocktaking plenary. There’s a  webcast  of the
session on the website of the UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change, as well as of later sessions.  On India’s flexibility in climate talks:  “We have shown more flexibility than virtually any other
party in this process. The centerpiece of the climate change
debate is equity. The equity of burden sharing cannot be
shifted. This is not about India. This is about the entire
world. I have agreed with ‘legal instrument’ though I don’t
agree with it. I have left the word protocol, though I don’t
agree with it. What is the problem of adding one more option?
How do I give a blank check and give a legally binding agreement
to sign away the rights of 1.2 billion people and many other
people in the developing world. I’m only wondering that there is
an effort here to shift the burden of this entire  climate change 
problem onto countries that have not contributed. That is wrong.
That is why we have common but differentiated
responsibilities.”  On the text being debated:  “Mitigation levels will apply to everybody, equally, even
to countries as big as India which have a per capita emissions
of 1.7 tons.”  On alleged threats:  “We did not issue threats to people. We did not say we
would make the multilateral process collapse. I want to tell the
world that this document was the product of six days of talking.
All of us have talked over and over and over again. All our
ideas were put forward. Everybody was present.”  On the level of India’s responsibility for climate change:  “We have agreed on raising ambition levels. Our three
agenda items have been pushed to some corner. They have been
pushed to some place. We will give up the principle of equity.
In this historic city of Durban, if we finally say goodbye to
the principle of equity, if we finally say goodbye to common-
but-differentiated responsibility, that will be the biggest
tragedy of all time. If we are going to reopen the text, we are
willing to do that and take every word for discussion again,
particularly mitigation and ambition levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  