-- 
ING Groep Offers to Buy Back $7.7 Billion of Debt to Bolster Capital Base

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-12-12T11:11:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/ing-submits-offers-for-7-72-billion-of-subordinated-debt-from-58-to-87-.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, offered to buy back and exchange 5.8
billion euros ($7.7 billion) of subordinated debt to bolster its
finances as regulators demand higher capital reserves.  ING made three offers for seven tranches of debt
securities, with offer prices ranging from 58 percent to 87
percent of nominal value, the Amsterdam-based lender said in a
statement today. It made a bid for cash on two portions of debt
in the U.S. and two exchange offers for new senior debt on five
tranches of debt in euros and British pounds in  Europe .  The Dutch firm follows competitors including  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  in making efforts
to improve the quality of their capital as they are pressed by
regulators to boost their ability to absorb losses. Financial-
services companies seek to replace debt that will count less
toward the highest form of capital under rules set by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision , scheduled to take effect in
2013.  “The offers will strengthen the quality of ING’s capital
base,” the company said in the statement. The transaction is
also in anticipation of regulatory changes that will “diminish
the contribution of subordinated debt to regulatory capital
going forward,” it said.  ING offered to buy back for cash $2.5 billion in Tier 1
securities in the U.S. at 80 percent of their nominal value. In
Europe, the firm seeks to swap Tier 1 and Lower Tier 2 debt
denominated in euros and pounds into senior unsecured paper.  Banks divide  debt capital  into tiers, depending on the
ability of the bonds to absorb losses. The most junior is Tier
1, which includes equity and retained earnings.  UBS AG is lead deal manager for the offer, while Barclays
Plc and ING are acting as joint dealer manager.  ING is scheduled to announce the results of the offers,
which have been approved by the European Commission and the
Dutch central bank, on Dec. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  