-- 
Intel Says Q4 Revenue to Miss Forecast

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-12-12T21:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/intel-reduces-forecast-for-fourth-quarter-sales-on-hard-disk-drive-supply.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, reduced its fourth-quarter revenue forecast by about
$1 billion, saying a shortage of hard-disk drives is cutting
customers’ production of personal computers.  The company said revenue will be $13.7 billion, plus or
minus $300 million, compared with a previous estimate of $14.7
billion, give or take $500 million, according to a statement
today. Analysts predicted $14.7 billion, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While PC sales will rise in the fourth quarter from the
prior three months, Intel said customers are stockpiling fewer
parts because output has been hurt by a shortage of disk drives,
the main data-storage devices in computers. The supply
constraints, resulting from the worst flooding in  Thailand  in 70
years, will continue into the first quarter, the chipmaker said.  “I am a bit surprised -- I had thought that there would
still be enough supply that Intel would be able to make its
forecast,” said  Daniel Berenbaum , an analyst at MKM Partners LP
in Stamford, Connecticut, who recommends buying the stock.
“This is obviously not great news.”  Shares of the  Santa Clara , California-based company fell 4
percent to $24 at the close, leaving the stock up 14 percent
this year. Rival  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  slipped 4.3
percent.  Flooding Recovery?  The reduced outlook from Intel, whose microprocessors power
more than 80 percent of all PCs, comes after some drive makers
had indicated the industry was recovering from the floods in
Thailand, home to production for about a quarter of the world’s
hard-disk drives. The forecast sent the  Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index (SOX)  down 2.8 percent.  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  is now the only PC-related semiconductor maker
that hasn’t told investors that the floods will hurt earnings,
according to Mark Lipacis, an analyst at Jefferies & Co.  Intel’s customers have cut chip orders in the past two
weeks after their hard-disk suppliers updated them on the
availability of their products, Intel Chief Financial Officer
Stacy Smith said on a conference call today. Sales of computers
haven’t dropped and are following the pattern that was the basis
of Intel’s original forecast, he said. Sales of servers and
demand in  emerging markets  are providing “pockets of
strength,” while demand in some developed markets is weaker, he
said.  “We expect supply to catch up with demand sometime in the
first half of 2012,” Smith said. He said he is unable to
predict a more specific time in the first half.  PC Customers  Intel’s biggest clients are Hewlett-Packard Co., Dell Inc.
and Quanta Computer Inc., according to a Bloomberg supply-chain
analysis. In last year’s fourth quarter, Intel had revenue of
$11.5 billion.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting costs of production, will be 64.5 percent in the
fourth quarter, plus or minus a couple of points, compared with
an earlier target of 65 percent, Intel said today.  “The good news is that the gross margin is only 50 basis
points below where they had previously guided to,” Berenbaum
said.  On Dec. 1, disk-drive maker  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  joined
 Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  in signaling that the industry was
rebounding from the disaster in Thailand, raising its quarterly
sales forecast and saying it restarted production earlier than
expected.  Western Digital  had cut its sales forecast in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in san francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  