-- 
Iowa Evangelical Voters Torn Over ‘Baggage’ of Gingrich Affair

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-12-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/iowa-evangelical-voters-torn-over-baggage-of-gingrich-affair.html
Linda Warner acknowledges  Newt Gingrich  has some “baggage” and can be “pugnacious.”  She also thinks he has the best chance of beating President
 Barack Obama , and that trumps any concerns she has about whether
Gingrich’s marital infidelity should disqualify him from
becoming the standard-bearer of the party of family values.  “He has shown so well in the debates,” said Warner, 52, a
physics teacher who backed  Ron Paul  in the 2008 Iowa caucuses.  That’s not the conclusion drawn by Philip Fisher, who said
Gingrich’s three marriages and the extramarital affair he had
with his current wife, Callista, hurt his chances to become
president -- while also potentially signaling ethical weakness.  “Cheating on your wife, that I have a problem with,” said
Fisher, 41, a technical project coordinator who is leaning
toward supporting  Mitt Romney . “If you’re willing to cross that
moral line, that leads you to a gray area and realistically
that’s why I’m afraid that he’s not electable.”  How those crosscurrents play out over the next three weeks
will help determine whether the former U.S. House speaker from
Georgia keeps his lead in Iowa, the state that starts the
Republican nomination voting with its Jan. 3 caucuses.  Warner and Fisher sat across from each other at a
conference room table last week in a focus group that Bloomberg
News convened of nine Republicans, all evangelical Christians
who plan to participate in the caucuses. Three of the voters are
leaning toward Gingrich, five are gravitating toward other
candidates, and one is undecided.  Potential Vulnerabilities  The discussion offered insight into potential
vulnerabilities for Gingrich among a critical group of voters.
In the 2008 Republican caucuses,  exit polls  showed 60 percent
who attended described themselves as born-again or evangelicals.  Those who have already lined up behind Gingrich “are
focused intensely on winning,” said J. Ann Selzer, who
moderated the session and conducts polling for Bloomberg News
and for the Des Moines Register’s  Iowa  Poll. “His past is old
news and does not disqualify him from moving the country
forward, which they are confident he can do.”  “There’s a lot of negative things about him, but I think
he understands our constitution,”  said Gina McNair, a small
business owner who supported former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  in 2008. “He understands how this government runs. I
think he’s highly intelligent.”  It’s an Issue  For those still mulling their options, it is an issue that
is shaping their decision. When Selzer asked the group whether
they think Gingrich believes in strong “family values,” only
McNair’s hand immediately went up.  Chad Brown, 33, a manager at the  Des Moines  airport who
frequently sees the candidates as they pass through the state,
said he also worries about Gingrich’s unpredictable nature and
past family issues.  “Our candidate shouldn’t be roped into talking about
personal situations, mores,” said Brown, who is leaning toward
Romney. “The candidate with the least baggage is going to get
that message out.”  Fisher said he recently received a phone call from someone
presenting themselves as a pollster asking whether it would
affect his vote if he knew that Gingrich was having an affair at
the time while he was overseeing the House’s impeachment of
former President  Bill Clinton  because of the Monica Lewinsky
scandal. It’s unknown who paid for the poll.  Romney Raises Issue  The Romney campaign has subtly tried to raise questions
about Gingrich’s values, frequently pointing out that the former
Massachusetts governor has been married for 42 years.  During a Dec. 7 visit to Iowa, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie also drew implicit distinctions on the issue of
character between Romney and Gingrich.  Christie, who has endorsed Romney, told a voter who said
she was still undecided to ask herself, “Is this the kind of
person who is always going to make me proud in the Oval
Office?” or do something that would “make me ashamed.”  Focus group voters drawn to Gingrich are backing him
because they view him as the strongest candidate in the field
and they are willing to overlook his past indiscretions.  President Not Pastor  “I’m not asking this man to be my pastor,” said Jaime
Hansen, 32, who didn’t caucus in 2008. “I’m asking him to be my
president, and we all have failures in life and he’s admitted
that.”  Electability is the central requirement for Hansen.  “Yes, we all want somebody with moral values,” she said.
“Yes we want somebody with good family values. But we really
want somebody who is going to beat Obama. We want somebody who
can stand strong against him.”  McNair said one thing she likes about Gingrich is that she
doesn’t expect any surprises.  “With Newt, it’s like his dirty laundry has been aired,”
said McNair, 52. “There’s nothing new to be out there.”  Gingrich was asked at a Dec. 10 debate in Iowa about his
three marriages, including to his current wife with whom he had
an extramarital affair while still wed to his second wife. He
said his personal life should be viewed in its entirety, a
position he’s taken in interviews with evangelical radio talk
show hosts and others for the past year as he laid the
groundwork for his candidacy.  Asking Forgiveness  “I’ve made mistakes at times,” he said. “I’ve had to go
to God for forgiveness. I’ve had to seek reconciliation. But I’m
also a 68-year-old grandfather. I think people have to measure
who I am now and whether I’m a person they can trust.”  At the debate, Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who needs to cut
into Gingrich’s social conservative support if he is to gain
ground in Iowa, was not ready to forgive.  “If you cheat on your wife, you’ll cheat on your business
partner,” Perry said when asked whether infidelity should
disqualify someone for the presidency.  As he campaigns, Gingrich often has his wife at his side.
He also frequently mentions how they have been married more than
a decade and how his grandchildren are his best debate coaches.  The day after the debate in Iowa, Gingrich and his wife
attended Catholic mass in downtown Des Moines. Gingrich, who was
raised a Lutheran and became a Southern Baptist while in
 Georgia , converted to his wife’s Catholic faith about two years
ago.  Gay Marriage  He often talks about the importance of faith in his life,
as he tries to address any suspicions about his past. In Iowa,
he helped obtain seed money for a campaign to oust three state
 Supreme Court  justices who had ruled in favor of gay marriage.  Still, focus group participant Amanda McCluer, 22, said she
has concerns about Gingrich’s past infidelity.  “It is bothersome,” said McCluer, who is leaning toward
supporting former Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania . “You
want to make sure they’re a moral person in their own home, so
that when they get to the office they do things that they say
they’re going to do.”  Carrie Davis, 38, who is leaning toward supporting Paul,
said she is disappointed that Gingrich had an affair, although
her bigger concern is how it could hurt his electability.  “I don’t like it, but it happens,” she said. “My concern
is to get Obama out at any cost and, if there’s a chance that
that could be an issue, that’s one of the things that would hold
me off of him.”  Career Politician  She said she also can’t get past Gingrich’s lengthy career
in  Washington . He was elected to the House in 1978 and resigned
his seat and the speakership in 1998 after an  ethics
investigation  that led to House reprimand and Republican losses
in the midterm elections.  “I just kind of have that dirty politician feeling,” she
said. “He’s been in it for so long. He knows the ins and outs.
He’s dealt with the lobbyists.”  And she worries about his temperament.  “I’m just afraid that that’s going to shine badly on the
conservative side of things and then Obama will slide through,”
she said.  McNair said the issue of the economy is trumping family
values in this presidential campaign season.  “I think we are so far in debt and we have printed so much
 money  that maybe those issues aren’t as important this time,”
she said. “This time they don’t even enter importance for me.”  Focus group participant Chad Whitaker, 41, a small business
owner, said he is leaning toward supporting Romney, even though
he’s not very excited about him.  “He’s got the least baggage, but actually he’s probably
fourth or fifth on my list,” he said.  Chad Workman, 39, a railroad safety manager, said he has
been amazed to see such a longtime Washington political figure
as Gingrich build support among Tea Party activists.  “It’s a complete contradiction in my mind,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  West Des Moines , Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  