-- 
Lira Weakens to 2-Week Low as Europe Crisis Overcomes Macro Data

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-12-12T16:58:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/lira-weakens-to-2-week-low-as-europe-crisis-overcomes-macro-data.html
The lira depreciated to a two-week
low as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is damping growth and
comments from the central bank on inflation outweighed optimism
from  Turkey ’s better-than-expected macroeconomic data.  The lira weakened 1.2 percent to 1.8652 per dollar as of
5:52 p.m. in Istanbul, declining to the lowest level since Nov.
28 and pushing this year’s declines to 17.3 percent. Yields on
the two-year benchmark debt rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 10.40 percent, a Royal Bank of Scotland
index of the securities showed, the index’s highest level since
Nov. 29.  Turkey’s current-account deficit widened from a year
earlier in October, expanding less than economists’ forecast.
The shortfall grew to $4.2 billion from $3.4 billion, the
central bank in Ankara said in a statement on its website today.
The median estimate from eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was of $4.6 billion. The  economy  grew 8.2 percent in the third
quarter from 5.3 percent a year earlier, the statistics office
said on its website today in Ankara, beating the 6.3 percent
median estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Stocks fell and the euro weakened as Moody’s Investors
Service said it will review ratings for countries in the region
and  Intel Corp . cut its fourth-quarter revenue forecast. Italian
bonds stayed lower after a debt sale, while commodities slid.  “Turkey-specific data was good but the global markets
started the day with sales and this is driving us lower too,”
Emir Baruh, a currency trader at Akbank TAS in Istanbul, said in
an e-mail.  Turkish central bank governor Erdem Basci said the bank is
now focused on inflation. The central bank acted early to tackle
an increase in the inflation rate, he said in televised comments
to reporters in  London  today after a meeting with economists.
Turkey may further tighten monetary policy, depending on how
inflation develops, Basci said and added the bank may conduct
open market operations.  “The message I got from Basci is that inflation will be in
double-digit levels in the first quarter of 2012,” Murat Yardimci, chief trader at ING Bank AS in Istanbul, said in e-
mailed comments.
goods.  Inflation in Turkey rose to 9.5 percent in November from
7.7 percent a month earlier, the statistics office in Ankara
said Dec.5. The median estimate of eight economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was 9 percent. The central bank’s preferred measure
of  core inflation  jumped to 8.2 percent, the highest since June
2007.  Basci raised the  reserve requirements  for banks after he
took over as governor in April. In October, he doubled the rate
at which banks borrow from the central bank to as high as 12.5
percent. He has kept the  benchmark one-week repo rate  at a
historic low of 5.75 percent, saying Europe’s debt problems
threatened Turkey’s economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  