-- 
Iralco Asks LME to Explain Decision Not to Accept its Aluminum

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-12-12T12:23:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/iralco-asks-lme-to-explain-decision-not-to-accept-its-aluminum.html
Iranian Aluminium Co.  is trying to
establish why the London Metal Exchange said it won’t accept the
company’s brand of aluminum for delivery to warehouses approved
by the bourse.  The company’s product won’t be taken from Jan. 6, the LME
said in a notice to members on Dec. 9. If warrants are canceled
on or after that date, it won’t be possible to place the metal
back on warrant, either with the same warehouse company or
another warehouse company, according to the notice. Warrants are
documents entitling holders to take possession of metal at an
LME-approved warehouse.  The LME “hasn’t told us why it happened,” Hassan Mousavi,
Iranian Aluminium Co.’s director of commercial affairs, said
today by phone from Tehran. “We are in talks to see what the
reason is.”  Iran  is under four sets of United Nations economic and
financial sanctions as well as additional measures imposed by
the European Union and the U.S., which seek to increase pressure
on the country over its nuclear program. The U.S. and its allies
say the country intends to develop nuclear weapons, while Iran
says its program is purely civilian.  Iranian Aluminium is privately owned and will be sending
documents to the LME to clarify its ownership, Mousavi said. The
quality of the company’s aluminum isn’t an issue, he added.  “The quality is standard and the LME doesn’t have a
problem with the quality, our customers are satisfied,” Mousavi
said.  The company, which has its warehouse in the central city of
Arak and offices in Tehran, produces 120,000 metric tons of
aluminum a year, according to its website. Its shares are sold
on the  Tehran Stock Exchange , according to the TSE website.  Miriam Heywood, a spokeswoman for the LME, today declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  