-- 
Treasury Sells EU7 Billion in 1-Year Bills as Italian Borrowing Costs Fall

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-12-12T10:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/italian-one-year-borrowing-cost-declines-to-5-952-after-agreement-on-euro.html
Italy  sold 7 billion euros ($9.3
billion) of one-year bills, the maximum for the auction, and
borrowing costs declined after Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
government approved a 30 billion-euro emergency economic plan.  The Rome-based Treasury sold the bills to yield 5.952
percent, down from 6.087 percent at the last auction on Nov. 10,
which was the highest in 14 years. Demand was 1.92 times the
amount on offer, compared with 1.99 times last month.  Italy’s borrowing costs surged at the previous auction
after former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  offered to resign
and LCH Clearnet SA demanded more collateral on the country’s
debt. The yield on the nation’s 10-year bond yield closed five
times last month above the 7 percent level that led  Greece ,
 Portugal  and Ireland to seek bailouts.  The yield on the benchmark bond was 6.57 percent after the
auction at 11:07 a.m. in  Rome . That pushed the difference with
German bonds to 4.5 percentage points, up from 4.21 percentage
points on Dec. 9. Italy’s next market test is Dec. 14, when it
auctions as much as 3 billion euros of five-year bonds.  Monti’s Cabinet approved a sweeping budget plan on Dec. 4
aimed at raising revenue and boosting Italy’s anemic growth to
persuade investors Italy can tame the region’s second-biggest
debt and avoid a bailout. Parliament is due to vote on the plan
by Christmas and Monti has warned that the failure to approve it
could lead to Italy’s “collapse” and threaten the survival of
the single currency.  Initial Backing  Investors initially gave their backing to the plan, with
Italian bonds gaining the most in almost four months and the
yield difference with German bunds falling below 400 basis
points for the first time since Oct. 31. Yields rose again last
week after European leaders failed to come up with a definitive
solution to end the sovereign-debt crisis at a Dec. 8-9 summit
in Brussels.  Moody’s Investors Service said today that it will review
the ratings of all European Union countries in the first quarter
because the summit failed to produce “decisive policy
measures” to end the crisis. At the summit, euro-region leaders
agreed to a fiscal accord to create more oversight of budget
policies and automatic penalties for countries violating deficit
rules.  Negative Outlook  The move by Moody’s came after  Standard & Poor’s  last week
put the EU’s AAA long-term rating on “creditwatch negative”
and placed 15 euro-area countries including AAA rated France and
 Germany  on a negative outlook. S&P said on Dec. 9 that it would
study the summit’s outlook before deciding whether to proceed
with the ratings cut.  Italy’s debt of 1.9 trillion euros is more than that of
 Spain , Greece, Portugal and Ireland combined. Its jump in bond
yields is already raising borrowing costs for a country that
faces 200 billion euros of bond redemptions in 2012. Italy’s
Treasury had to offer a yield of 6.29 percent, the highest since
1997, on five-year debt at an auction on Nov. 14.  Italy will be able to withstand an increase in borrowing
costs for at least a few years because its relatively long debt
maturity helps offset the effects of higher bond yields, the
 Bank for International Settlements  said in its Quarterly Report.  The cost of servicing its debt would rise by just 0.95
percent of gross domestic product next year if 10-year yields
stayed at the record 7.48 percent reached last month, the BIS
said, citing its own calculations. The “worst-case scenario”
would have to persist for three years for the additional costs
to exceed 2 percent of output, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  