-- 
Ivory Coast Counts Parliament Votes as Ouattara Eyes Support

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-12-12T12:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/ivory-coast-counts-parliament-votes-as-ouattara-eyes-support-1-.html
President  Alassane Ouattara , who is
seeking to overhaul the cocoa industry, is likely to gain
support in Ivory Coast as ballots were counted from the first
legislative election in more than a decade.  Results have started to be released today, with news
website Abidjan.net tallying two seats for Ouattara’s
Rassemblement des Republicains. As many as 1,160 candidates were
vying for 255 seats, with about 5.7 million voters eligible to
cast their ballots.  The party of former leader  Laurent Gbagbo  is boycotting the
National Assembly vote as he faces charges of crimes against
humanity at the  International Criminal Court . Gbagbo’s refusal
to accept defeat in a November 2010 presidential vote sparked
five months of violence that killed as many as 3,000.  The election was generally peaceful, with one reported
incident of unidentified gunmen snatching a ballot box in the
country’s interior, Bert Koenders, head of the United Nations
operations in the  Ivory Coast , told reporters yesterday.  Ouattara, 69, wants to guarantee farmers as much as 60
percent of the international cocoa price to spur investment and
output in the world’s biggest producer of the chocolate
ingredient. Those plans are part of wider reforms in the
industry, including dissolving regulatory bodies, required by
the  International Monetary Fund  before it considers debt relief
for the West African nation.  Economic Growth  Ivory Coast’s economy is recovering from a civil war that
stalled output in the first quarter. Economic expansion of 8.5
percent is projected in 2012 from a 5.8 percent contraction this
year, according to the  Finance Ministry . Better management of
the economy may help the government resume interest payments on
defaulted $2.3 billion Eurobonds in June, Norbert Kobenan, an
aide to the finance minister, said on Nov. 21.  The yield on the bonds, which the country defaulted on in
January, fell 76 basis points to 14.009 percent by 12:57 p.m. in
 London , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On Dec. 9, the
price fell to the lowest since March, closing at 48.375 cents on
the dollar.  “The so-far peaceful and orderly election process may
provide some support for the bond,” Ridle Markus and Dumisani
Ngwenya, Africa analysts at Barclays Plc-owned Absa Capital in
Johannesburg, wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Reconciliation  The election is “an important step toward national
reconciliation,” Koenders told reporters on Dec. 9.
“Reconciliation will be an asset for economic and social
development.”  Gbagbo, 66, was charged at the ICC in The Hague last week
after being captured in Abidjan in April when Ouattara’s forces,
with support from  United Nations  and French troops, took over
the city. Several members of Gbagbo’s Front Populaire Ivorien
party, which had ruled for a decade, were arrested or left the
country.  The country’s violent past, capped by the post-election
crisis this year, may result in apathy for politics, said
Dominique Assale Aka, vice chairman of the Abidjan-based Ivorian
Civil Society Convention.  “The behavior of politicians has left a bitter taste in
the mouth of the population,” he said in a Dec. 6 interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Johannesburg at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  