-- 
Jet Maker Hawker Beechcraft Hires Perella Weinberg to Seek Loan Amendment

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-12-12T23:02:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/jet-maker-hawker-beechcraft-hires-perella-weinberg-to-seek-loan-amendment.html
Hawker Beechcraft Corp., the jet
maker part-owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , hired Perella
Weinberg Partners LP as it seeks an amendment to the terms of
its revolving  credit line .  “We are entering a phase of our business during which we
will likely need to address our revolving credit agreement which
was last amended more than two years ago,” Nicole Alexander, a
spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mailed statement.  Hawker Beechcraft is close to violating the terms of its
loans, which require its  cash flow  to grow, as the weakening
global economy cuts demand for its  business jets  and its
liquidity slides. It’s in the interest of the Wichita, Kansas-
based company’s lenders to agree to loosen the covenants,
according to Sam Goodyear, an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in
 New York .  “There’s a logical path to giving these guys a little more
time,” Goodyear said today in a telephone interview. “If it
was forced to liquidate right now, given all the macro
uncertainty related to  Europe , they’re probably not going to
maximize their recoveries.”  The company’s $182.9 million of 8.5 percent notes due in
April 2015 fell 0.8 cent to 18.5 cents on the dollar as of 10:28
a.m. in New York, the lowest in more than two years, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. The bonds traded for as much as
60.3 cents in August.  Loan Terms  The loan terms require that the company make $112.5 million
in adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization this year, Goodyear said. Hawker must also maintain
$162.5 million of liquidity, or cash plus available credit,
according to Goodyear.  Hawker Beechcraft is in compliance with the covenants,
Alexander said in an e-mail. The company hired  Perella Weinberg 
to seek adjustments in a “timely and effective manner,”
Alexander said in e-mails. Alexander denied in a telephone
interview that the company was planning an “imminent
restructuring,” as Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary &
Data reported earlier today.  “We, like every other company in our aircraft market
sectors, have experienced a large decrease in demand for our new
aircraft products since 2008,” Alexander said in an e-mail.
“We believe we are well balanced for market demand and
production capacity going into 2012.”  Max Frumes, one of the reporters at S&P LCD who wrote the
report, didn’t immediately return a telephone call seeking
comment.  Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, the fifth-biggest U.S.
bank’s private-equity arm, and  Onex Corp. (OCX)  bought the company in
2007 for about $3.3 billion, giving the bank and  Canada ’s
largest buyout firm equal stakes of 49 percent each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  