-- 
John C. Bogle’s Contributions to Investors and Capital Markets

-- B y  
-- 
2011-12-12T19:39:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/john-c-bogle-s-contributions-to-investors-and-capital-markets.html
Will Be Honored at Forum of Financial Leaders  Press Release  Restoring Investor Trust in Financial Markets: Does Jack Bogle
Offer a Prescription?  NEW YORK -- Prominent figures in regulation, finance and
investment will gather on January 31, 2012 at  New York ’s Museum
of American Finance to honor the contributions of John C. Bogle,
founder of Vanguard Funds, and long-time investor, advocate and
author of nine highly regarded books.  The event will kick off with three panel discussions that will
focus on the future of investing and feature industry experts
such as  Alan Blinder , Roger Ibbotson and Burton Malkiel. Topics
include:  -Fiduciary Duty: What is the Future?  -Corporate Governance and Compensation  -Product Simplicity and Low Cost: The Role for the Indexing
Model in The Way Forward?  The morning panels will be followed by a luncheon conversation
with former  Federal Reserve  Chairman Paul Volcker and Mr. Bogle,
exploring his legacy and his thoughts on re-establishing
investor confidence in the financial markets.  “This event brings together the best known financial figures to
honor a visionary in global finance,” said  Arthur Levitt , Former
Chairman U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. “Jack Bogle
has given investors throughout the world more wisdom and good
financial judgment than any person in the history of markets.”  Bogle founded the  Vanguard Group  in 1974 and launched the
Vanguard 500 Index Fund in 1975 as the first index fund
available to the general public.  Vanguard went on to become one
of the largest U.S. mutual fund groups.  Mr. Bogle’s 1999
book Common Sense on  Mutual Funds : New Imperatives for the
Intelligent Investor became a bestseller and is considered a
classic.  Attendance at the event is by invitation only.  “Jack Bogle is the ‘Founding Father’ of an investor-first
compact between investors and the industry. His unyielding
commitment to the ideals that define fiduciary stewardship stand
out on  Wall Street  and Main Street alike,” said Knut Rostad,
President of The Institute for the Fiduciary Standard, co-
organizer of the event with CFA Institute, Bloomberg LINK and
the Museum of American Finance.  The host committee is co-chaired by  Paul Volcker  and Arthur
Levitt. Host committee members also include: Sheila Bair, former
Chair of the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ; John Biggs,
former Chairman and CEO of TIAA-CREF; Alan Blinder, Princeton
University economist, former member of the  Council of Economic
Advisers  (CEA) and a former vice chairman of the Federal
Reserve; William Donaldson, former Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman and former Chairman and CEO of Donaldson,
Lufkin & Jenrette; Peter Fitzgerald, former Senator from
Illinois and Chairman, Chain Bridge Bank, N. A.; Roger Ibbotson,
Yale professor of finance; Burton Malkiel, Princeton University
economist and former member of the CEA; and  David Swensen , Chief
Investment Officer of Yale University.  For more information, contact Knut Rostad, the Institute for the
Fiduciary Standard at 703-821-6616 x 429 or  kar@rpjadvisors.com ;
or Angela Martin, Bloomberg LINK at 212-617-1211 or
 angelamartin@bloomberg.net .  Organizers  The Institute for the Fiduciary Standard was formed in August
2011 as a fiduciary think tank to provide research, education
and advocacy on the vital importance of the fiduciary standard
to all investors.  Bloomberg LINK produces invitation-only, in-person gatherings
that combine world-class editorial programming with peer-to-peer
networking amongst the who’s who in influential communities. In
this environment, participants engage in open discussions that
lead to learning from each other’s expertise and experience.  CFA Institute  is the global, not-for-profit association of
investment professionals that awards the CFA and CIPM
designations. With over 100,000 members, and regional societies
around the world, we are dedicated to developing and promoting
the highest educational, ethical, and professional standards in
the investment industry.  The Museum of American Finance’s core mission is to preserve,
exhibit and teach finance and financial history. An affiliate of
the Smithsonian Institution, the Museum is a unique resource
that showcases the power and practice of finance.  Media Contact:  William McBride, Wm. McBride & Associates, 917.239.6726,
 bill@wmmcbride.com 
