-- 
Jose Mourinho Wants Swap for Chelsea’s Lampard, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-12-12T11:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/jose-mourinho-wants-swap-for-chelsea-s-lampard-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Lampard Madrid-Bound?  Real Madrid boss and former Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho 
may swap Spanish under-21 star Esteban Granero for Chelsea
player Frank Lampard, the  Sun  reported.  Granero, who has been valued at 6 million pounds ($9.4
million), is wanted by both Arsenal and Liverpool.  Lampard, 33, has struggled to make the first team under new
Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas.  Henry’s Return?  Everton boss David Moyes has had “a quiet word” with
former Arsenal star Thierry Henry about the Frenchman making a
return to the Premier League, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Henry, who plays for the New York Red Bulls, is training
with Arsenal during the Major League Soccer off-season. He’s
expected back in New York on Jan. 15.  Everton had struck a similar agreement with  Landon Donovan 
of the  Los Angeles Galaxy  in the past.  United Plans  Manchester United  is keen to sign 17-year-old Dutchman
Jetro Willems from PSV Eindhoven, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  United manager Alex Ferguson has sent his brother Martin, a
scout for the club, to the Netherlands to watch the left-back
perform. Youth international Willems has already played 20
senior matches.  Zamora to Villa?  Aston Villa manager Alex McLeish is interested in signing
Fulham striker  Bobby Zamora , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Zamora, 30, has had an “icy” relationship with Fulham
manager Martin Jol, the paper said. Zamora, who was left out of
the squad last week at Swansea, is keen to get playing time
because he wants to make the England Euro 2012 team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 