-- 
South Korea Should Oppose Private-Equity Bids for Woori, Panel’s Lee Says

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-12-13T06:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/korea-should-oppose-woori-bids-by-buyout-funds-panel-s-lee-says.html
South Korea  should discourage buyout
firms from bidding for  Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000)  to avoid
repeating the mistake it made when  Lone Star  Funds acquired
Korea Exchange Bank, according to a member of the committee in
charge of state asset sales.  “We must learn the lesson from this painful experience,”
Lee Jae Sool, who was appointed to the  Public Fund Oversight
Committee  in September, said an interview on Dec. 9 in Seoul.
“We shouldn’t let private-equity funds buy Woori the next time
the government tries to privatize it.”  The comments indicate a reluctance to widen the potential
pool of suitors for Woori after South Korea abandoned its second
attempt to sell the firm in August when it attracted a solitary
bid. Dallas-based Lone Star agreed this month to sell KEB to
Hana Financial Group Inc. for $3.4 billion, seeking to exit an
eight-year investment that has been tarnished by legal disputes,
regulatory delays and a public backlash over profits.  Shares of Woori dropped 2.2 percent to 9,580 won at the
close of trading in Seoul. The stock has lost 38 percent this
year, underperforming the benchmark Kospi index’s 9.1 percent
decline.  Lost Opportunities  Lee, chief executive officer of  Deloitte Anjin LLC , a Korea
member firm of  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu , joined the eight-member
committee after the Woori deal collapsed.  He said the sale of Woori, the country’s biggest financial
firm by assets, was impeded by the government’s insistence that
the deal satisfy three conditions. The criteria -- earliest
possible privatization, maximum recovery of bailout funds, and
benefit to the development of South Korea’s financial industry -
- conflict with each other, Lee said, adding these are his
personal opinions and the matter will further be discussed later.  “We should decide which takes priority,” Lee, 52, said.
“We may have lost opportunities by delaying decisions. I expect
the committee will agree on the top priority next year before
proceeding with a new sale process after 2013.”  The Public Fund Oversight Committee gave up its most recent
attempt to sell Woori in August, saying the sole bid it received
from a private equity-led group didn’t constitute “valid
competition.” South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  has been
trying to offload the banking group, which was created in 2001
as a holding company for lenders rescued following the 1997-98
Asian financial crisis, to promote banking industry competition.  Criticism of  Lone Star (004940) ’s profit from its investment in KEB
is excessive, given that the government had “few options” when
it sold the bank to the U.S. fund, the committee member said.  Time to Leave  “It’s easy to say now why we allowed Lone Star to buy KEB
in the first place. No one was willing to inject capital into
the bank in 2003 and the public and politicians opposed a
government bailout,” said Lee. “It’s time to let Lone Star leave
and keep our national image and learn the lesson that private-
equity funds won’t benefit the long-term development of banks.”  Lone Star recovered 2.9 trillion won ($2.5 billion) through
dividends and the sale of some shares after spending 2.15
trillion won for the KEB stake since 2003. It’s set to recoup
more than $4 billion in total if the sale to Hana succeeds.  Local-currency loans at KEB grew 54 percent in the seven
years ended December 2010, less than industrywide growth of 87
percent, according to  Financial Supervisory Service  data. The
lender’s branches increased 8.5 percent to 381 in the period,
less than the 17 percent across the domestic industry and 31
percent at  Woori Bank , the data show.  Lone Star’s Stake  KEB employees and civic groups are urging regulators to
judge whether Lone Star is qualified to be a major shareholder
before it sells the stake to Hana. The Financial Services
Commission in November ordered Lone Star to divest 41 percent of
KEB by May 18, saying it was only qualified to hold 10 percent
of the lender after being convicted of stock-price manipulation
in October.  Separately, Lee said Deloitte Anjin, one of South Korea’s
big four accounting groups, plans to more than triple annual
revenue to 1 trillion won by 2020 from the current 300 billion
won as it expands consulting and advisory services. Deloitte’s
global network will help it provide advice to Korean companies
seeking overseas takeovers, the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  