-- 
Kraft Pushes for 97,000-Pound Trucks Called Bridge Wreckers

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-12-12T18:42:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/kraft-leads-push-for-97-000-pound-trucks.html
Emboldened by U.S. legislation
allowing Maine and  Vermont  to keep 97,000-pound trucks rumbling
on their interstate highways,  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and Home Depot
Inc. are pressing more states to follow.  Companies including Kraft, which says its trucks would
drive 33 million fewer miles a year with higher weight limits
nationwide, say they need to carry loads more efficiently to
combat high  diesel-fuel prices . Safety advocates say more heavy
trucks would accelerate an increase in truck-related accident
deaths, and question whether bridges can withstand the added
weight.  “You’re starting to roll the dice,” said Andrew Herrmann,
president of the American Society of Civil Engineers. “Do you
really want to keep these heavy loads, have a lower factor of
safety and start wearing these bridges out faster?”  Trucks can weigh a maximum of 80,000 pounds on interstate
highways under U.S. law.  Maine  and Vermont are exceptions under
a  pilot program  that Congress last month extended for 20 years.  The proposed Safe and Efficient Transportation Act,
sponsored by Representative Michael Michaud, a Maine Democrat,
would allow every state to decide how extensively 97,000-pound
trucks can travel based on economic need and the condition of
its roads and bridges.  The bill may be rolled into a multiyear highway policy bill
Congress will work on next year, said John Runyan, executive
director of the Washington-based  Coalition for Transportation
Productivity . The group had 120 company members, including
Kraft, MillerCoors LLC,  International Paper Co. , Hershey Co.,
Owens  Corning Inc. (GLW)  and Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., as of Dec. 2.
Seventy trade associations also backed the effort.  Home Depot  States are already allowed to set higher weight limits for
secondary roads and 44 do, according to Runyan’s group. Twenty-
eight states also allow a limited number of heavier trucks on
interstates by permit, for certain vital commodities or for
shipping containers loaded from ports, Runyan said.  Lindsay Chason, senior manager for environmental innovation
for Atlanta-based  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , told  Georgia ’s transportation
board Oct. 19 that 97,000-pound trucks were needed to keep up
with a tripling of congestion since 1982 and diesel-price
increases.  The average U.S. retail price for  diesel fuel  was $3.93 per
gallon as of Dec. 5, according to the U.S. Energy Department, up
18 percent from the beginning of the year.  Wisconsin Loosening  Wisconsin last month passed a package of nine bills
intended to loosen various truck size and weight limits.
Governor  Scott Walker ,a Republican, said the new laws would
create jobs.  Companies are trying to win higher weight limits rather
than the ability to operate longer trucks, like triple trailers,
Runyan said. Adding a sixth axle to 97,000-pound trucks on the
interstates, as required by Michaud’s bill, would reduce road
wear and improve braking, he said.  “When you’re filling a truck with a product and it’s 80
percent filled, you’re running around with a lot of trucks with
extra space,” he said.  Bridge Stress  Companies can partially offset the heftier trucks’ added
road wear by keeping the size of the trailer the same and
spreading the weight over an additional axle, said Herrmann,
head of the engineering group. The extra axle doesn’t offset the
stress on interstate bridges, which were designed for 80,000-
pound trucks, he said.  Herrmann’s group estimates that  25 percent of U.S. bridges 
need weight limits or restrict traffic because they’re not
strong enough. The U.S. is spending about $10.5 billion a year
to maintain bridges, and $17 billion is needed to keep up with
the ongoing damage, he said.  “Those bridges already need work,” Herrmann said. “Now
we’re saying let’s go back and reinforce all the bridges that
need it, when we don’t have enough money to maintain the
structures that we have.”  Kraft, the maker of Cheez Whiz and Oreo cookies, would make
66,000 fewer truck trips if the Safe and Efficient
Transportation Act were passed, said Harry Haney, associate
director of transportation planning with the Northfield,
Illinois-based company. Heavier trucks in Minnesota,  Wisconsin ,
 Illinois ,  Missouri  and  Ohio  would help the company most, he
said.  Kraft trucks would drive  33 million fewer miles  a year and
put 2.1 billion fewer pounds on roads with higher U.S. weight
limits, Haney said. The biggest savings would be in shipments of
products like Miracle Whip salad dressing, Oscar Meyer meat and
Capri Sun juices, he said.  “We need to find ways to use our existing infrastructure
more efficiently,” Haney said. “Members of Congress
increasingly agree.”  Logging Trucks  Congress last month extended a one-year pilot program to
allow 100,000-pound trucks on interstates in Maine and Vermont
for 20 years, with support from Weyerhaeuser Co. and other
forest-products companies.  Trucks are the only transportation mode that logging
companies and paper producers can use to carry felled trees,
wood chips and biomass from leaves and branches from forests,
said Neil Ward, communications director of the Forest Resources
Association in Rockville,  Maryland .  Minnesota , Ohio  Minnesota, like Maine, is a border state where industry
wants heavier trucks from  Canada  allowed on the interstates,
Ward said. Ohio’s legislature is debating higher weight limits
to accommodate agricultural products, depending on what Congress
does, he said.  “In the cases where a state already has a state limit
similar to what we’re proposing for the interstate highway, then
it’s a quick and turnkey operation to get an opt-in” to the
proposed House bill, Ward said.  In Minnesota, where a bridge on Interstate 35 collapsed in
2007, killing 13 people, the state transportation department
supports allowing either 97,000- or 99,000-pound trucks with six
axles on interstate highways, according to a March statement.
Interstate bridges are equal to or better than those on state
highways where heavy trucks already travel by permit, the agency
said.  Safety Concerns  Maine and Vermont officials downplayed concerns  raised by
the U.S. Federal Highway Administration about the ability of
interstate bridges to stand up under 100,000-pound trucks,
according to officials at The Truck Safety Coalition, Parents
Against Tired Truckers and Advocates for Highway and Auto
Safety. The three safety-advocacy groups obtained documents
about the two states’ pilot program under the Freedom of
Information Act.  “If one assumes that greater than a 10 percent
‘overstress’ is unacceptable, then these results show that every
100,000 lbs. truck is a problem,” a FHWA analysis concluded.  Justin Nisly, a spokesman for the highway administration,
declined to comment, saying the agency’s analysis wasn’t final.  Extra fees proposed for overweight trucks won’t cover the
costs of reinforcing or rebuilding bridges that weren’t designed
for the higher weight, with car owners and taxpayers picking up
the tab, said John Lannen, executive director of The Truck
Safety Coalition, based in Arlington, Virginia.  ‘Ripple Effect’  “The ripple effect will be catastrophic,” Lannen said of
the pressure on other states to increase weight limits. “The
entire country’s motoring public will be put in grave danger.”  Commercial truck-related fatalities, including people in
cars struck by big rigs, rose 8.7 percent in 2010 to 3,675, the
 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  said Dec. 8. The
American Trucking Associations said the same day that 2010 was
still among the safest years on record and the trucking fatality
rate, adjusted for miles driven, has fallen over the past two
decades.  In  Pennsylvania , John Rafferty, the Republican chairman of
the state’s Senate Transportation Committee, and John Wozniak,
the panel’s senior Democrat, warned the state’s congressional
delegation that Pennsylvania already needs $3.5 billion a year
to upgrade and maintain roads and bridges. More than 5,000
bridges remain structurally deficient, they said in a Nov. 14
letter.  “We cannot afford larger trucks on our roads and
bridges,” the senators said.  The Safe and Efficient Transportation Act is H.R. 763.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  