-- 
Kuwait Oil Minister Sees No Need to Change OPEC Output Quota

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-12-12T15:03:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/kuwait-oil-minister-sees-no-need-to-change-opec-output-quota.html
Kuwait ’s oil minister said there is
no need to change OPEC’s crude output or production quotas as
the group’s ministers prepare to meet in Vienna on Dec. 14.  “I don’t think there is any need to change either
production or quota because now the market is stable,” Mohammad al-Busairy told Bloomberg News as he left for Vienna from
Kuwait. “Most of the countries in OPEC agree there is no need
to change anything about the quota or the production.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
probably fail at the meeting in Vienna to set a target that more
closely matches production, according to all but five of 26
traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News Dec. 6-8.
Instead, they are likely to stick with a three year-old ceiling
that members exceeded by 11 percent in November.  The group failed to reach an agreement on quotas for the
first time in at least 20 years at its June 8 meeting when a
Saudi Arabia-backed proposal to boost output to make up for lost
Libyan supply was rebuffed by  Iran , Venezuela and four other
countries. Six months later, there are uncertainties surrounding
global oil demand amid signs that  Europe ’s debt crisis may drive
the world into a recession.  Clouded View  The outlook for global economic growth is so clouded, the
Paris-based  International Energy Agency  this year issued
different forecasts for oil demand in 2012, based on alternative
scenarios. In its most likely scenario, the world economy will
expand by 3.9 percent, with oil consumption rising 1.5 percent
to 90.5 million barrels a day, the IEA said Nov. 10. Should
growth average 2.6 percent, demand for crude will increase by
0.3 percent, it said.  Saudi Arabia ’s oil minister Ali al-Naimi, who said the
world’s biggest crude producer pumped the most in at least three
decades last month, signaled on Dec. 8 that there’s no pressure
to agree on new targets. Asked in an interview in Durban,  South
Africa , whether OPEC needs to revise the group ceiling, he
replied, “Who says?”  “I don’t expect a net change in group production at this
meeting,” Jason Schenker, the president of Prestige Economics
LLC in Austin,  Texas , said today in an interview in Vienna. “I
expect an ad hoc production-change dynamic to remain in place to
respond to the economic downside risks through the next meeting
in June.”  OPEC’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait,  Libya , Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  