-- 
New Jersey Attorney General Dow Leaving Post to Take Port Authority Role

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-12-12T18:41:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/new-jersey-attorney-general-dow-leaving-post-to-take-port-authority-role.html
New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he asked Attorney General Paula Dow to step down to take a
temporary regulatory role at the Port Authority of  New York  and
New Jersey, which he accused of “gross mismanagement.”  Christie said Dow will be first deputy general counsel at
the agency, which operates the George Washington Bridge and
other Hudson River crossings between New Jersey and New York.
She will be replaced by chief counsel Jeff Chiesa, Christie, 49,
told reporters today during a press conference in Trenton.  The  Port Authority , and its former Executive Director Chris Ward, have come under criticism by Christie and New York
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  for spending on overtime and rebuilding of
the  World Trade Center site . The governors ordered a $2 million
independent audit of the agency, which in September raised
bridge and tunnel tolls by 56 percent over five years.  “The Port Authority has a long history of grossly
mismanaging its finances and its now facing an aggressive audit
process,” said Christie, a first-term Republican and former
federal prosecutor. “It’s clear the authority needs greater on-
the-ground oversight to make sure tollpayers’ interests are
being protected.”  Christie and Cuomo, a first-term Democrat, share control of
the Port Authority. Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the agency,
declined to immediately comment on the Dow appointment and
whether any approval is required before she begins.  Judge Nomination  Dow, a Democrat and former Essex County prosecutor, was one
of the governor’s first Cabinet appointments. Dow, who also
worked as an assistant U.S. attorney under Christie, said the
 Port Authority  “needs a lot of attention” and thanked him for
the assignment.  “Attorney General Dow will be in a unique position to
bring her law-enforcement experience to quickly recommend
structural and procedural changes that will end the abuse and
waste that has marked the authority’s past,” Christie said. “I
want her to look at legal operations there which have obviously
failed us.”  Chiesa’s nomination will be submitted this week to
lawmakers for consideration, and he’ll take over the Law and
Public Safety Department on Jan. 1, Christie said. Dow will move
to the Port Authority at the same time, he said.  The governor said he also will nominate Dow to be an Essex
County Superior Court judge after she finishes at the Port
Authority. Christie said the nomination is a “peace offering”
to Essex County lawmakers who have held up his appointees from
that region.  Democrats control both houses of the Legislature. Christie
has called on Democratic Senators Dick Codey of Roseland, and
Ron Rice, of  Newark , to “stop the abuse of senatorial
courtesy,” which has allowed them to block his appointments.  Christie said he anticipates Dow will receive speedy
approval for the judicial post based on her resume and
experience, and that she will be confirmed while she is working
at the authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  