-- 
Nippon Life Plans to Boost Private-Equity Holdings, Maintain Hedge Funds

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-12-12T03:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/nippon-life-plans-to-boost-private-equity-holdings-maintain-hedge-funds.html
Nippon Life Insurance Co. , Japan’s
biggest life insurer with about 50 trillion yen ($640 billion)
of assets, plans to invest more in private-equity funds and
maintain its hedge-fund allocations.  Less than 1 percent of the insurer’s assets are invested in
private-equity and hedge funds, said Hiroo Sakuma, deputy
general manager of the company’s credit and alternative
investment department in  Tokyo . Private equity accounts for
twice the investments in hedge funds, he said, declining to give
the size of each holding. Nippon Life invested about 100 billion
yen in hedge funds as of March 2009, according to the company.  Nippon Life  is seeking to widen investments with
alternative products after the global market rout WAS
exacerbated by  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. Sixty-four
percent of investors surveyed by London-based  Preqin Ltd.  said
that they were relatively unfazed by the latest disturbances in
the global economy and attitudes toward private equity haven’t
changed, while 23 percent said they have become more attractive.  “We’re still planning to gradually increase our
allocations to private equity, seeking opportunities that make
sense,” Sakuma said in an interview in Tokyo on Dec. 9. “It’s
been a very difficult market not just for us, but for the entire
industry.”  Nippon Life, which has joint head offices in Tokyo and
 Osaka , has been investing in alternative assets for more than a
decade. It currently invests in more than 100 private-equity
funds and about 30 to 40 hedge funds globally through its asset-
management arms, according to Sakuma.  Distressed in Europe  For private equity, there may be opportunities for
distressed investments in Europe as banks sell assets, said
Hideya Sadanaga, the head of the external fund investment and
cash management department at Nissay Asset Management Co., in
the same interview. Nissay Asset is the asset-management unit of
the insurer and helps manage alternative investments.  Lured by the prospect of buying banks’ portfolios at
discounts, U.S. hedge funds and private-equity firms such as
 Apollo Global Management LLC  have raised about $7 billion
targeting European distressed assets since 2009 and are seeking
another $7 billion, according to Preqin.  The Japanese insurer “will maintain” its investments in
hedge funds at the same level it invested as of March this year,
Sakuma said, declining to elaborate.  No Specific Bets  Nippon Life targets an average annualized return of more
than 3 percent in yen terms over a market cycle for hedge-fund
investments, Sakuma said.  Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index  is down
3.7 percent so far this year through November, heading for its
first annual loss since 2008, when the index posted a record
decline of 10 percent.  “New investments will depend on the situation with
Europe,” Sakuma said. “Things are rapidly changing and it’s
difficult to bet on any one specific strategy per se.”  Strategies that exploit corporate events such as mergers,
including long-short equity funds that bet on market catalysts,
will be interesting investments among hedge-fund strategies,
Sadanaga said.  Nissay Asset also aims to expand its business by
introducing alternative investments to Japanese pension funds,
Sadanaga said.  Japan  has the world’s second-biggest pension
market, with assets of $3.47 trillion after the U.S., according
to Towers Watson & Co.’s 2011 Global Pension Asset Study.  “Next year’s big theme will be absolute return
investments,” Sadanaga said. “Demand for such products is
definitely growing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 