-- 
Novartis Confirms Patient Died After Starting Gilenya

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-12-13T13:49:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/novartis-patient-died-after-starting-gilenya.html
(Corrects identity of analyst in third, fourth, fifth
paragraphs of story published yesterday.)  Novartis AG (NOVN)  said a multiple
sclerosis patient died on Nov. 23 after starting treatment with
Gilenya, the first pill approved to treat the debilitating
neurological disease.  Whether Gilenya played a role in the patient’s death can’t
be excluded or confirmed,  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for the
Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker, said today in an e-mailed
statement. The death is the first reported within 24 hours of
the first Gilenya dose in more than 28,000 patients who have
taken the drug, Althoff said.  Gilenya was approved in the U.S. last year and cleared for
sale in  Europe  in March. It’s among the products Novartis is
depending on to boost sales as patents start to expire on the
company’s best-selling drugs, including the hypertension pill
Diovan. It’s not clear yet how a single death might affect
doctors’ cost-benefit analysis of the drug,  Tim Anderson , an
analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd., wrote in a note to
investors today.  “In the case of MS drugs, there is often significant
safety baggage of different sorts,” Anderson wrote. He rates
Novartis’s shares “outperform” and estimates that by 2015
Gilenya sales will reach $1.4 billion, about 2 percent of the
Swiss company’s revenue.  The exact cause of the death hasn’t been established,
Novartis said. Sudden death “smacks of being cardiovascular in
nature,” Anderson wrote, adding that the possibility of a
temporary slowdown in  heart rate  after patients start treatment
with Gilenya is part of the reason for a recommendation for
monitoring in a doctor’s office after treatment begins.  The patient who died had begun treatment on Nov. 22 and had
been monitored “without incident” for six hours after taking
the first dose, Althoff said.  Novartis said it has sent details of the case to the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration  and other regulatory authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naomi Kresge at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net  