-- 
Nuclear Regulatory Board’s Open Feuding Gives Obama Another Energy Dispute

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-12-12T19:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/nuclear-regulatory-board-s-open-feuding-gives-obama-another-energy-dispute.html
President  Barack Obama , embroiled in
energy disputes over the Keystone pipeline and the failure of
Solyndra LLC, now must contend with a rebellion against the
chairman he chose to lead the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission.  All four other NRC commissioners, both Democratic and
Republican appointees, have complained to White House Chief of
Staff  William Daley  that Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  is causing
“serious damage” to the agency. Jaczko responded to Daley that
a commission majority “loosened the agency’s safety standards”
over his objections.  Republican lawmakers already are investigating the
administration’s $535 million loan guarantee to Solyndra, a
solar-panel maker that filed for bankruptcy in September. They
are also trying to force Obama to speed a decision on
TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL oil pipeline, which the
administration plans to make after the 2012 elections. This
week, a House panel will probe the NRC discord.  “For the president’s own appointees to be involved in a
circular firing squad is unusual,”  Peter Bradford , a former NRC
commissioner and a Vermont Law School professor, said in an
interview. The dispute is “certainly going to distract the
commissioners and their offices from other agency work,” he
said.  Commissioners George Apostolakis and William Magwood IV,
who hold Democratic seats on the commission, “are telling the
president who appointed them that he screwed up” by naming
Jaczko as the agency’s chairman in 2009, Bradford said.  Eric Schultz , a White House spokesman, declined to comment
on the NRC dispute.  House, Senate Hearings  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which
released the commissioners’ complaint to the White House on Dec.
9, will quiz Jaczko and his critics on their rift at a hearing
Dec. 14. The commissioners will return to  Capitol Hill  the next
day for a Senate Environment and Public Works Committee hearing
on the agency’s actions in response to the crisis at  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in March.  The House Energy and Commerce Committee is investigating
the Energy Department’s management of its loan guarantee program
after Solyndra and Beacon Power Corp., an energy-storage company
that received $43 million in U.S. backing, sought  bankruptcy
protection . The House may vote this week on a bill to extend the
payroll tax cut through 2012, with a provision aimed at forcing
the administration to move within months on the Keystone XL
pipeline that would bring crude from  Canada ’s oil sands to
refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast.  New Reactors  The NRC is considering regulations to improve safety at
U.S. nuclear reactors after the Fukushima disaster and weighing
whether to award Southern Co. and  Scana Corp. (SCG)  the first permits
to build new U.S. reactors in more than 30 years.  Obama appointees Apostolakis, Magwood and Commissioner
William Ostendorff joined the commission in 2010. Ostendorff and
Kristine Svinicki, a member of the panel since 2008, hold
Republican seats. President  George W. Bush  named Jaczko to the
NRC in 2005, and Obama promoted him to chairman in 2009.  None of the four commissioners critical of Jaczko responded
to requests for comment. Jaczko wasn’t available for comment,
according to  Eliot Brenner , an NRC spokesman.  Fissures in the NRC’s leadership became public on May 4,
when Ostendorff told reporters after a House hearing that Jaczko
didn’t consult with his colleagues when recommending that
Americans stay at least 50 miles (80.5 kilometers) from the
Fukushima site.  Yucca Mountain  The differences date back at least to Jaczko’s efforts in
2010 to act on Obama’s campaign promise to abandon plans to
store radioactive waste under Yucca Mountain in  Nevada .  An NRC inspector general’s report in June determined that
Jaczko “was not forthcoming with the other commissioners about
his intent to stop work” on Nevada project, which was backed by
the nuclear-power industry. The report also cast him as a
manager who acknowledges that “he sometimes loses his temper.”  Republicans have said Jaczko stopped work on the Yucca
project for political reasons. The NRC chairman, a former
science adviser to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat who opposes storing waste at Yucca, has said he acted
within the law and without political motivation.  Jaczko’s colleagues have a “lack of understanding” of
their role on the commission, particularly during the agency’s
response after Fukushima, the NRC chairman said in a Dec. 7
letter to Daley, a rebuttal to the Oct. 13 letter the other NRC
commissioners sent.  ‘Intimidated, Bullied’  While the NRC is responsible for writing regulations and
policies that govern the industry, “all other functions,”
including emergency response, are the chairman’s responsibility,
a change put in place following a 1979 partial meltdown at the
Three Mile Island nuclear plant near Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania ,
Jaczko said.  Jaczko has “intimidated and bullied senior career staff”
and is creating a “chilled work environment” that may affect
the NRC’s safety mission, according to the commissioners’
letter. He also showed “contempt” for the commission and
“open disdain” for its procedures at an Oct. 5 meeting of the
agency’s Executive Director for Operations, they said. Jaczko’s
office issued a statement saying the other commissioners didn’t
attend the meeting.  “This issue that is of most concern is the question of a
chilled working environment,” Marvin Fertel, president and
chief executive officer of the  Nuclear Energy Institute , a
Washington-based industry group, said in a statement today. “We
are confident that Congress and the White House will take the
steps necessary to ensure that the NRC is an efficient,
effective regulator.”  Southern Co. (SO) , Boxer  Southern Co. of Atlanta, which is seeking to build two
reactors at its Vogtle nuclear plant near Augusta,  Georgia ,
remains confident the NRC will grant it a license for the
project this month, Steve Higginbottom, a Southern spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  Democratic lawmakers, including Senator  Barbara Boxer , said
Jaczko is under attack for making the NRC a tougher enforcer of
safety for the nation’s nuclear plants.  “We must move away from the ‘do nothing’ culture of the
NRC and support Chairman Jaczko as he translates the lessons of
Fukushima into an action plan that will make America’s nuclear
plants the safest in the world,” Boxer, a California Democrat
and the chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works
Committee, said in a Dec. 10 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  