-- 
Obama Says U.S. Has Asked for Iran to Return Downed Drone

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-12-12T20:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/obama-says-u-s-has-asked-iran-to-return-drone-aircraft-downed-on-dec-4.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
has asked  Iran  to return a drone aircraft that U.S. controllers
lost contact with on Dec. 4.  At a White House news conference with Iraqi Prime Minister
Nouri al-Maliki, Obama said he wouldn’t comment directly on the
loss of the pilot-less spy plane.  “We have asked for it back,” he said. “We’ll see how the
Iranians respond.”  Iran said it is studying the craft and is close to
accessing information stored in it.  Three U.S. defense officials said last week the plane the
Iranians  displayed  on television on Dec. 8 appears to be the
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  RQ-170 that was lost four days earlier.
The Pentagon and the Central Intelligence Agency have declined
to comment on the drone.  Parviz Sarvari, head of the Iranian parliament’s national
security and foreign policy committee, said Iran is “in the
final steps of breaking into the aircraft’s secret code.”  “The findings will be used to support our accusations
against the U.S.,” Sarvari said in comments published on the 
website  of the state-run Al Alam news channel.  Obama didn’t offer details about how his administration
asked Iran to return the drone. The U.S. doesn’t have diplomatic
relations with Iran and is usually represented in that country
by Swiss diplomats.  No Response Expected  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , speaking of the request
in a press conference today, said that “given Iran’s behavior
to date, we do not expect them to comply” with the request. She
said the U.S. formally submitted the request “as we would in
any situation with any country in the world.”  Mark Toner, a State Department spokesman, said he wouldn’t
provide details on how the U.S. communicated with Iran. “I’m
not going to get into intelligence matters” or the diplomatic
process, Toner said.  The U.S. officials said the greatest concern is that the
Iranians will give Russian or Chinese scientists access to the
aircraft, which is designed to be virtually invisible to radar
and carries advanced communications and surveillance gear.  Studying it may give two technologically sophisticated
potential adversaries insight into the unmanned spy plane’s
stealth technology, flight controls, communications gear, video
equipment and self-destruct, holding-pattern or return-to-base
mechanisms, officials said.  Secret Program  The officials spoke on Dec. 9 on condition of anonymity
because the RQ-170 is part of a Secret Compartmented
Intelligence (SCI) program, a classification higher than Top
Secret, and because the investigation into the loss of the drone
is also classified.  The officials said that for three years the U.S. has been
flying two types of unmanned surveillance missions over Iran and
along the Afghanistan-Iran border from a former Soviet airbase
in Shindand in western  Afghanistan ’s Herat province.  In addition to monitoring construction and other activity
at suspected Iranian nuclear facilities, the officials said, the
CIA has been using drones to monitor cross-border traffic and
Iranian support for insurgents.  The U.S. says the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear program is
a cover for developing atomic weapons. Iran, which is under four
sets of United Nations sanctions and further U.S. and European
Union measures, rejects the claim and says the program is purely
civilian.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  