-- 
Obama Winning Climate Debate Opens China to Legal Accord

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-12T12:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/obama-winning-argument-on-global-warming-pushes-pollution-curbs-for-china.html
The U.S., long accused of blocking
progress in international climate talks, is winning a two-decade
old debate about how to curtail global warming.  The decision yesterday by  China  and  India  to move toward an
agreement with the “legal force” to limit their fossil fuel
emissions marked the first step toward treating developing
nations the same as industrial ones when it comes to reducing
pollution.  President  Barack Obama , and  George W. Bush  before him,
pushed for that parity after the Senate refused to ratify the
Kyoto Protocol, which limits  greenhouse gases  for industrial
nations. Developing nations such as China and India had no
commitments under Kyoto.  “The U.S. saw an opportunity to push China into accepting
the same rules as everyone else and took it,” said Andrew
Light, coordinator of climate policy at the Center for American
Progress, a research group in  Washington  with White House ties.  Benchmark carbon permits under the European Union’s
emissions trading system, the world’s biggest cap-and-trade
program, fell 1.2 percent to 7.75 euros a metric ton as of 12:35
p.m. in London, headed for the first loss in three days.  Obama’s envoy approved the accord yesterday at United
Nations climate talks in Durban, South Africa. Bringing
 developing countries  into the system is important because Kyoto
regulates only a third of greenhouse gas emissions, and China
and India have become two of the world’s three biggest polluters
since the pact was approved in 1997.  Rich and Poor  “The Durban climate talks have brought us to an important
moment where all nations will be covered in the same roadmap
toward a long-term solution for the climate crisis -- the
greatest challenge facing our planet,” House Democratic leader
 Nancy Pelosi  said in a statement.  The division between rich and developing economies has been
enshrined in the UN talks since 1992, allowing the poorest
nations to escape commitments on burning coal and oil while
requiring industrial nations to clean up the atmosphere. That
split prompted the Senate in 1997 to pass a resolution saying it
wouldn’t adopt Kyoto. No president ever made a formal proposal
to bring the treaty into force in the U.S.  “You can run around and pretend that behind this firewall
you are going to take 30 or 35 percent of global emissions and
fix the problem. But you know what? You’re not,” Todd Stern,
the U.S. envoy in Durban, said Dec. 8. “What the U.S. has been
doing over the last two years has been showing the leadership
necessary to try to drag this process into the 21st century.”  U.S. Skepticism  U.S. State Department officials initially rejected the EU’s
push to start talks for a climate treaty to replace Kyoto, whose
emissions limits expire at the end of 2012. Stern said last week
he was skeptical China and India would participate on the same
level as industrialized nations. He moved when developing
nations gave assurances they would agree to the same sort of
language industrial nations adhere to.  The agreement in Durban is a victory for the U.S. because
it strengthens Obama’s effort to steer the climate talks toward
voluntary pledges on emissions instead of a top-down system of
targets written into the  Kyoto Protocol , said  Robert Stavins ,
director of Harvard University’s Environmental Economics Program
in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Kyoto sets a goal meant to spur emission-reducing policies
and provides an international system of mechanisms such as the
global carbon market to help nations comply. U.S. has pushed a
“bottom-up” approach of allowing each nation to fix its own
policy and from there determining how much emissions will fall.
Stern won support from India and China for voluntary pledges in
Copenhagen in 2009 and last year in Cancun,  Mexico .  ‘International Framework’  “In the Copenhagen Accord, more than 90 countries signed
up to do something domestically, so now we are working with this
international framework while countries are starting to do
things on the ground,” European Union Climate Commissioner
 Connie Hedegaard  said in an interview yesterday in Durban after
the negotiations ended. “It’s moving, too slow, but it’s
moving.”  Stavins from Harvard said the vague legal language coming
from Durban helps validate the “wisdom of giving more attention
to bottom-up, decentralized approaches.”  Guidance for Companies  For companies looking for guidance on how regulations will
shape energy demand, the Durban framework may provide less
certainty because it leaves the policy decisions to individual
nations, and there’s nothing to drive policy immediately. Envoys
at the talks agreed to develop a process leading to a treaty in
2015 that would come into force starting in 2020.  Renewable-energy investment rose to a record $243 billion
last year as solar and wind energy subsidies increased orders at
such companies as LDK Solar Co. and Vestas Wind Systems A/S.,
though both companies have said increasing competition will
shrink margins in the coming months.  “We want a legally-binding agreement that sets long-term
targets,” Jeff Moe, director of global policy at  Ingersoll-Rand
Plc (IR) , which sells heating and ventilation equipment, said in an
interview in Durban. “We want to see an enabling policy that
goes global.”  By signaling their willingness to take on emissions cuts
later, China and India won backing to extend Kyoto’s curbs past
2012. That supports the Clean Development Mechanism, a pillar of
the global carbon market established by the treaty. Prices of
CDM certificates have fallen 54 percent in the past year as the
weaker economy cut demand for the offsets and concern mounted
about the continuation of the program.  ‘Viagra Shot’  The Durban deal “is like a Viagra shot for the flailing
carbon markets” and may boost prices today, said Abyd Karmali,
head of carbon markets at Bank of America in  London .  Still, the Durban agreement is a fragile compromise that
almost came apart just as ministers were adopting it. Just after
1 a.m. yesterday, India fought to include language calling for a
“legal outcome,” a phrase rejected by the EU as too soft.  A couple hours later, with help from  Brazil  and the U.S.,
the EU and India agreed on compromise language that says
“agreed outcome with legal force.” The government in Delhi has
indicated it’s more comfortable with the voluntary framework
than a legally-binding requirement.  “We aren’t talking about lifestyle sustainability that
many of the children of more fortunate countries than ours have,
we are talking about livelihood sustainability,” India’s
Environment Minister Jayanthi Natarajan said in a speech to at
the meeting in Durban, winning thunderous applause. “How do a
give a blank check and give a legally binding agreement to sign
away the rights of 1.2 billion people and many other people in
the developing world? Is that equity?”  China Stance  China spoke in Durban about taking on mandatory targets only
after 2020 and only if certain conditions are met. It has been
more willing to take on voluntary measures and supported both
the Cancun and Copenhagen accords.  “This is a new arrangement, and we all support the serious
decisions made at this conference which demonstrated that a
multinational mechanism is functioning to address climate
change,” Chinese envoy Xie Zhenhua told reporters yesterday
after the talks finished.  Among people involved in the talks, there’s a concern that
neither Durban nor the Kyoto rules seem to be having much effect
on global warming, said Elliot Diringer of the Center for
Climate and Energy Solutions in Arlington, Virginia.  “We all believed 15 years ago that binding commitments
were the answer,” he said. “They are an important piece of the
answer, but it’s going to take time to get there. We keep
waiting for the magic moment. There are no magic moments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Durban,  South Africa  at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in Durban, South Africa at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  