-- 
Obama Unlikely to Get Opportunity to Appoint Cordray in Recess

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-12-12T05:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/obama-unlikely-to-get-opportunity-to-appoint-cordray-in-recess.html
Lawmakers seeking to wrap up
congressional work for the year likely will leave Washington
this month without giving President  Barack Obama  the opportunity
to make a temporary appointment of his nominee to head the new
 Consumer Financial Protection Bureau .  After the  U.S. Senate  blocked the nomination of Richard Cordray to be the first director of the bureau following months
of partisan acrimony, Obama said he won’t “take any options off
the table” to put him in the post.  While presidents have the power to make temporary, or
recess, appointments without lawmakers’ approval after Congress
has formally adjourned, congressional aides in both parties say
they don’t expect Obama will get that chance.  Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , said Majority Leader  Harry Reid  has kept the Senate
in session on a pro-forma basis during recesses throughout the
year. He anticipates the  Nevada  Democrat will do so again at
year’s end.  “The Congress hasn’t been in recess all year, and we don’t
expect we will be,” Stewart said.  Two Senate Democratic leadership aides who spoke on
condition of anonymity said Reid is unlikely to end the practice
of pro-forma sessions while lawmakers are back in their states
until January. A single senator can be on hand to invoke the
pro-forma session.  Republican Obstruction  Reid’s willingness to allow pro-forma sessions has
forestalled Republican obstruction to other appointees and
legislation in a chamber where Republicans have enough seats to
block action through procedural votes.  Republicans who control the House also could reject any
resolution adjourning the session even if Senate Democrats
sought to approve it.  “We haven’t adjourned in quite a while, and I don’t expect
that to change,” said  Mike Steel , a spokesman for House Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican.  Obama nominated Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general, to
be the new consumer bureau’s director in July. That was about a
year after he signed the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory
overhaul that created the bureau.  The partisan dispute over Cordray’s nomination centered on
Republican demands that changes be made in the structure and
funding of the agency. In May, 44 Senate Republicans pledged to
oppose any nominee for the director’s post without those
changes. Senator Dean Heller of Nevada subsequently joined those
vowing to oppose any appointee. Republicans hold 47 Senate
seats, and it takes 60 votes to shut down debate and proceed to
a vote.  ‘We’ve Made Ours’  “The president has made his decision and we’ve made
ours,” McConnell, of  Kentucky , said on the Senate floor before
the chamber’s Dec. 8 vote blocking Cordray’s nomination.  Reid has said minority opposition to a nominee based on
rejection of a federal agency, and not concerns over a nominee’s
capabilities, is unprecedented.  Obama has made the confirmation of Cordray a top priority
and orchestrated a campaign of briefings, television interviews
and speeches before the Senate vote to push the nomination. The
consumer protection agency also has been part of the populist
theme he has adopted ahead of next year’s presidential
elections.  Republicans’ refusal to confirm Cordray “doesn’t make any
sense,” Obama said on Dec. 8. “We either have a country where
everybody fends for themselves, or we create a country where
everybody does their fair share, everybody has got a fair
chance, and we ensure that there’s fair play out there.”  Regulation Powers  Without a confirmed director, the consumer bureau can’t use
key powers accorded it under the Dodd-Frank law, notably the
ability to regulate non-bank financial institutions such as
mortgage originators and payday lenders.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said in a statement
that “Americans deserve the full protections signed into law
under Wall Street reform. The longer the Senate fails to confirm
 Richard Cordray  to lead the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, the longer they will be denied that protection.”  Under the Constitution, neither chamber can adjourn for
more than three days without the other’s permission, said David
Eric Lewis, a political science professor at  Vanderbilt
University  in Nashville. While the president has the ability to
intervene and adjourn Congress on his own if both chambers
disagree on whether or not to adjourn, that power has never been
utilized, he said.  Obama used his recess authority in July 2010 to appoint
 Donald Berwick  as administrator of the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, the agency that handles the health programs
for the elderly and low-income Americans. Republicans held fast
on their objections to Berwick and he resigned, effective Dec.
2. The president has nominated Berwick’s chief deputy, Marilyn Tavenner, to replace him.  He also used recess appointments in March and December 2010
to fill posts that had been vacant for months because of Senate
roadblocks, including putting two career foreign-service
officers in as ambassadors to Syria and  Turkey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  