-- 
Obama Says U.S. Focus in Iraq Turning to Economic Development, Oil Output

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-12-12T20:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/obama-maliki-confer-on-new-relations-as-iraq-war-winds-down.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
will focus on  Iraq ’s continued economic development and
increased  oil production  as the American military force pulls
out after almost nine years of conflict.  With the last U.S. troops leaving by the end of the year,
“Iraq is assuming its rightful place among the community of
nations,” Obama said at a White House news conference with
Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. “Our goal is simply to
make sure that Iraq succeeds.”  The president said that includes fostering additional
foreign investment in Iraq and bolstering oil output.  Obama and Maliki met at the White House to discuss an
agenda that included future U.S. economic and military
assistance, the influence of neighboring  Iran  and Iraq’s
regional security and stability.  Obama said that with oil production rising, Iraq can again
become “one of the region’s leading oil producers.” Iraq has
the world’s fifth-biggest crude reserves and pumped 2.71 million
barrels a day last month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We hope that the American companies will have the largest
role in increasing our wealth in the area of oil and other
aspects as well,” Maliki said through a translator.  Link to U.S.  Maliki, a former rebel who led the first full-time
government after the toppling of  Saddam Hussein  and who is now
serving his second term as premier, needs to maintain a strong
link with the U.S. as American forces end their mission Dec. 31,
according to Ken Pollack, director for the  Persian Gulf  at the
National Security Council during the Clinton administration.  “Maliki needs to be able to show the people of Iraq and
the Iranian government that the U.S. has not abandoned Iraq,”
Pollack said. “The Iraqi people want the troops gone but they
don’t necessarily want to be cast adrift. And they’re very
nervous.”  Opposition to the war in Iraq was a central element of
Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign. Now, as he’s seeking a
second term, the president is showcasing the end of military
involvement with events this week that include the talks today
and a news conference, augmented by an address to U.S. troops at
Fort Bragg,  North Carolina , on Dec. 14.  Obama “needs to demonstrate that we haven’t just walked
away from Iraq, that while we’re withdrawing troops, we still
have a strong relationship, and we’re still paying a lot of
attention,” Pollack said in a telephone interview before the
White House meeting.  ‘Heads Held High’  The last American troops in Iraq will depart “with their
heads held high,” Obama said. The U.S. won’t leave “big
footprints” in Iraq once those forces are gone.  The U.S. pullout has drawn criticism from Republicans.  Senator  John McCain , who ran against Obama for the
presidency in 2008, said Obama and Maliki “have failed in their
responsibilities with regard to our shared interest.”  The U.S. interest in a stable Iraq demands U.S. troops
remain beyond this year, the Arizona Republican said in a
statement. “But domestic political considerations in each
country have been allowed to trump our common security
interests.”  The agreement that kept troops in the country through the
end of the year was negotiated in 2008 under President  George W. Bush . The Iraqi government declined to provide immunity from
prosecution for U.S. troops to stay into next year.  War Costs  Since the war in Iraq began in March 2003, 4,487 Americans
have died there and 32,226 were wounded, according to Pentagon
figures as of Dec. 9.  When it passes a fiscal 2012 defense appropriation,
Congress will have authorized at least $823 billion for Iraq
military operations, $47.6 billion for State Department and
Agency for International Development reconstruction and an
additional $7.2 billion for Veterans Administration Iraq-related
medical issues, according to the  Congressional Research Service .  The Pentagon has spent $720 billion of its authorized funds
through Sept. 30, according to comptroller data.  The U.S. military is withdrawing its remaining 8,000
military personnel and 5,000 contractors from Iraq as the year-
end deadline nears. That is down from a peak of about 300,000
Americans in Iraq in 2007, including almost 170,000 uniformed
personnel as well as civilians and contractors.  ‘Weak and Fractious’  Iraq remains deeply troubled and restiveness in the Persian
Gulf may have consequences for the oil market and the global
economy.  “Iraq remains weak and fractious,” Pollack, director of
the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington , told the Senate Armed Services
Committee in testimony on Nov. 15. “It is not ready to be
without an external peacekeeping presence” and “its political
leadership has not demonstrated anything like the maturity that
will be required to prevent the country from sliding back into
civil strife.”  Obama said the two nations will have an active military-to-
military relationship, from training Iraqi pilots on the 18
 Lockheed-Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16 fighter jets that Iraq has agree to
buy to ensuring that sea lanes “in and around Iraq and through
the region” remain open for international commerce.  “We’ve got to train their pilots and make sure that
they’re up and running and that we have an effective Iraqi  Air
Force ,” he said.  $2.3 Billion Deal  The deal to sell Iraq additional F-16s, which the
administration formally announced today, is worth about $2.3
billion, according to the White House.  The U.S. will maintain its embassy in  Baghdad  and
affiliated consulates after Dec. 31. About 16,000 personnel will
serve under the embassy’s umbrella next year, according to State
Department figures.  Obama said that the embassy’s diplomatic and technical
staff is “going to be comparable to other countries that we
think are important around the world.”  After the press conference, Obama, Maliki and Vice
President  Joe Biden  went to Arlington National Cemetery. Obama
and Maliki jointly laid a wreath of red and white carnations at
the Tomb of the Unknowns and stood briefly in silence, followed
by the playing of taps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  