-- 
Crude Oil Rebounds From Two-Week Low in New York on Economic Outlook

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-12-13T13:52:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/oil-trades-near-two-week-low-as-europe-debt-concern-counters-u-s-supplies.html
Oil rebounded from a two-week low
after a report showing improved investor confidence in  Germany 
and a debt sale in  Spain  that exceeded targets countered concern
that European credit may be downgraded.  Crude advanced as much as 0.9 percent after the ZEW Center
for European Economic Research said German investor confidence
improved for the first time in 10 months. Spain’s sale of 12-and
18-month bills topped the Treasury’s maximum target. Futures
fell earlier after Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it
will review all European Union states’ credit ratings and the
 International Energy Agency  cut its 2012 oil-demand forecast.  “We’ll see a little bit of a bounce today because there’s
some relief over the economic data that’s coming out,” said
 Michael Hewson , a markets analyst at CMC Markets in  London .  Crude for January delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose as much as 88 cents to $98.65 a barrel and was at
$98.45 at 1:36 p.m. in London. Yesterday, the contract slid
$1.64 to $97.77, the lowest settlement since Nov. 25. Prices are
7.7 percent higher this year after rising 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was up $1.06 at $108.32 a barrel. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $9.87 to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade. The spread was a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  OPEC Meeting  The 12-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
meets in Vienna tomorrow. Most of the group’s members agree
there’s no need to change production or targets, according to
 Kuwait ’s oil minister, Mohammad al-Busairy, who said yesterday
“the market is stable.”  The IEA said in today’s monthly market report that OPEC
will need to produce less crude next year than previously
forecast. Global demand will average 90.3 million barrels a day
next year, 200,000 barrels less than the agency’s November
estimate. It’s the fourth cut in the IEA’s 2012 forecast.  Tougher sanctions on  Iran  may lead to higher global crude
prices and a decrease in output capacity for OPEC’s second-
largest oil producer, the IEA said in the report.  Speculation that a ban may be imposed on Iranian oil is
underpinning crude prices, Hewson said, while concern that a
sluggish economy may further crimp energy demand is keeping
prices from rising too high.  Brent crude  will trade in a range
from $105 a barrel to as high as $115 over the next six months,
he said, while WTI will sell for between $95 and $103 a barrel.  Quota Compliance  Iran, OPEC’s second-biggest producer, expects  oil prices  to
fall next year unless members comply with quotas and rein in
output to accommodate rising shipments from Libya and  Iraq , the
country’s state-run Fars news agency said, citing Iran’s OPEC
Governor Mohammad Ali Khatibi. The 11 members subject to the
three-year-old quotas exceeded them by 2.81 million barrels a
day last month, according to a Bloomberg survey.  OPEC should retain flexibility to adjust output higher or
lower in coming months because of political turmoil in some
countries and concern the global economy may slow, said a
delegate, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
discussions haven’t started.  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said yesterday he
is happy with OPEC’s current production levels amid demand from
“all over.” The kingdom, the world’s largest crude exporter,
pumped 10.047 million barrels a day in November, he said.  The Energy Department may say tomorrow crude supplies fell
for the first time in three weeks, a separate Bloomberg survey
showed. The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  in
 Washington  will publish its own data today.  Crude inventories in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer,  decreased  2.5 million barrels in the week ended Dec.
9, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Gasoline stockpiles probably climbed 1 million
barrels, after climbing for four weeks. Distillate-fuel
supplies, including diesel and heating oil, are also expected to
have gained 1 million barrels, the survey shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  