-- 
Olympus Auditor Ernst & Young to Probe Audit of Accounting, Judgment Call

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 
2011-12-12T08:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/olympus-auditor-ernst-young-to-probe-audit-of-accounting-judgment-call.html
An Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC
committee will determine whether there were auditing problems or
lapses in judgment in its probe on the coverup of a $1.7 billion
fraud at  Olympus Corp.   ShinNihon said Dec. 8 that it formed a committee to
investigate its audit of Olympus and verify an internal probe
that found nothing wrong. “We will look into whether there were
problems in the accounting process for  acquisitions (7733)  and also
judgments made in auditing,” Toshifumi Takada, a panel member
and economics professor at Tohoku University in Miyagi, northern
 Japan , said in Tokyo today.  Olympus  is investigating about 70 executives to answer
queries over losses and transactions for acquisitions, including
$687 million in payments to advisers in the purchase of Gyrus
Group Plc in 2008 and stake writedowns in three other takeovers.
The camera maker set up a special panel in November to conduct a
probe after former Chief Executive Officer  Michael Woodford 
revealed the coverup costing 135 billion yen ($1.7 billion).  The ShinNihon committee plans to ask KPMG Azsa LLC, Tokyo-
based Olympus’s former auditors, to cooperate with its probe,
said Nobuo Gohara, a lawyer and committee member. The committee
intends to release an interim report by Dec. 31 and a full
account by the end of February, he said.  Market Value  Olympus , also the world’s biggest endoscope maker, surged
7.8 percent to 1,300 yen, the highest level since Oct. 27, at
the close in  Tokyo  trading after the company said it plans to
hold a briefing about its first-half earnings on Dec. 15. As of
the Dec. 9 close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Olympus had lost
the equivalent of $4.5 billion, or about half its  market value ,
following Woodford’s dismissal Oct. 14.  The company is required to restate  earnings  and issue
second-quarter results by Dec. 14 to avoid delisting. Olympus
said today it’s preparing to meet the deadline.  The payments were “questionable from the accounting point
of view,” Olympus’s panel said in a report last week. “We
cannot conclude this was appropriate.”  Japan’s Financial Services Agency is looking into any role
ShinNihon may have played in the Olympus cover-up, Minister
 Shozaburo Jimi  told reporters in Tokyo last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  