-- 
Honda Hopes New Acura ILX Helps Keep Gen-Y Out of Lexus, BMW

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-12-12T21:11:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/honda-wants-new-acura-ilx-to-help-keep-gen-y-out-of-lexus-bmw.html
Honda Motor Co. , seeking to revive
its Acura luxury brand, is introducing a sedan intended for
younger buyers unable to afford higher-end marques. It’s part of
an effort to improve Acura’s image with new models.  The compact ILX is aimed at “Generation-Y” drivers who
are turning 30, Honda said at a briefing in  Las Vegas  this
month. The sedan will start “well under $30,000” when it goes
on sale in early 2012, and will be shown next month at the
 Detroit  auto show, said Vicki Poponi, assistant vice president
for product planning at Honda’s U.S. unit.  “The brand is in trouble,” said Jessica Caldwell, an
analyst for researcher Edmunds.com. “The consensus for many of
the current models is the vehicles just look bland. They have to
do something to capture peoples’ emotions with styling.”  Acura, like the Honda brand, is struggling this year from
reduced production triggered by natural disasters and a model
line that hasn’t drawn as much attention as those of Volkswagen
AG’s  Audi ,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz. Acura sales slid 6.7 percent through November,
compared with gains of 15 percent for Audi, 12 percent for BMW
and 12 percent for Mercedes’ luxury models.  With its new models Tokyo-based Honda plans to tout Acura’s
lineup as “smart luxury” vehicles that combine fuel
efficiency, driving performance and value for money.  Honda also will show its revamped  Accord coupe in Detroit 
next month, the company said on its website. Both the coupe and
a new sedan go on sale in late 2012, the company said, without
elaborating.  Gen-Y Emphasis  Sales for Acura will rise in 2012, buoyed by the ILX and a
revamped RDX compact utility vehicle that’s also to be shown in
Detroit in January, said  John Mendel , Honda’s executive vice
president of U.S. sales.  Honda expects to sell 40,000 ILX sedans annually. Acura
brand sales totaled 110,170 this year through November. Mendel
declined to provide Acura’s volume goal for next year.  While  baby boomers  account for the majority of luxury
sales, Acura is preparing for their children, who are entering
the auto market, said Michael Accavitti, Honda’s vice president
of U.S. marketing. The group, born since about 1980, covers as
many as 80 million people, he said.  “Gen-Y consumers aspire to luxury still, but they need
some help getting there,” he said. “They are projected to be
the first generation in the modern era to earn less than their
parents.”  Powertrain Options  The ILX will be available with three powertrain options: a
2-liter engine with an automatic transmission; a sportier 2.4-
liter, manual transmission model; and a hybrid version with a
1.5-liter engine, Poponi said. The ILX will be built at Honda’s
Greensburg, Indiana, plant, which makes Civic compacts.  The hybrid version will be Honda’s  first gasoline-electric
auto  built in  North America , the company said today.  The revamped RDX also goes on sale next year, receiving a
new V-6 engine in place of its current turbocharged 4-cylinder
model. The new version will have both higher horsepower than the
current RDX and “much improved” fuel economy, Poponi said.  Honda’s American depositary receipts fell 1.7 percent to
$31.19 at the close in  New York .  NSX’s Return  Acura also plans other, more expensive models as it revamps
its lineup.  A concept version of the NSX, Acura’s two-seat supercar
that left the line five years ago, will also be shown in
Detroit. A concept version of the RL, Acura’s current top-end
sedan, will be shown in New York in April, Poponi said.  The mid-engine NSX is to be the brand’s “halo” model,
equipped with a new “sport hybrid all-wheel-drive” system for
high-performance driving and  fuel-efficiency , said Gary Evert,
division leader for Acura research and development.  The NSX should go on sale “within three years” and
probably can’t be sold for “less than $100,000,” Tetsuo Iwamura, Honda’s chief operating officer for North America, said
in an interview in Las Vegas, without elaborating.  “It’s definitely never a bad thing for a brand to have a
high-dollar sports car, but the critical thing is RL,” said Ed Kim, industry analyst for AutoPacific Inc. in Tustin,
 California . “Acura has never achieved the status of the other
Japanese luxury brands, mainly given the lack of a truly premium
sedan.”  Roomier RL  The current RL, starting at about $48,000, isn’t
competitive with rival luxury sedans because “it’s grossly
undersized for the segment,” lacking the roomy back seat
expected by buyers of BMW’s 7-Series and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
Lexus LS, Kim said.  That will change with the new RL, which will go from having
“worst-in-class legroom to the best-in-class,” Poponi said.
The new version will have BMW “7-Series cabin space, with the
agility of a 5-Series,” she said.  After its 1986 start as the first premium Japanese auto
line, Acura grew rapidly on U.S. demand for entry-level Integra
sedans and midsize Legend sedans.  Acura has been on a “wandering road” since the 1990s,
 Jeff Conrad , the brand’s manager, said in Las Vegas. That’s the
result of “inconsistent” product introductions, he said.  Sales peaked in 2005 at 209,610 on demand for Acura’s MDX
sport-utility vehicle and midsize TL sedan.  “Acura is almost restarting themselves back to square one,
and that’s not a bad thing” said Edmunds’s Caldwell. “But at
the end of the day, styling is also critical, so if it’s not a
nice-looking car, no one is going to buy it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Las Vegas at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  