-- 
London’s Best New Restaurants, From Luxury Feasts to Bar Snacks

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-12-12T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/london-s-top-new-restaurants-from-luxury-meals-to-bar-grub-richard-vines.html
London  has fine new restaurants,
from fancy establishments in luxury hotels to back-street venues
where you sit at a crowded bar to nibble snacks, having stood in
line for the privilege because you’re not allowed to book.  I haven’t been to all the new openings:  Hardens.com  in
August counted 140 over the previous 12 months. My list of
favorites is missing candidates such as Roganic, chef Simon Rogan’s excellent establishment, which I’ve only visited once;
and Hedone, which is garnering attention in Chiswick.  Here are my favorite London venues I have reviewed in 2011:  1. Pollen Street Social: Chef Jason Atherton, who created
Maze for Gordon Ramsay, finally stepped clear of his mentor with
his own London restaurant, which is an expression of his
personality as well as his cooking.  The dishes are modern and innovative, the service unstuffy
and informal. Best of all, Atherton is in the kitchen most days
and Pollen Street is evolving week by week.  8-10 Pollen Street, W1S 1NQ. Information: +44-20-7290-7600;
 http://www.pollenstreetsocial.com/ .  2. Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal : Heston Blumenthal’s
brasserie serves British dishes based on historical recipes and
created with modern cooking technology.  The menu doesn’t seek to emulate the experimentation at the
Fat Duck, yet the Meat Fruit starter (chicken-liver parfait in a
mandarin-gel skin) is one of the most-talked-about dishes in the
U.K. Ashley Palmer-Watts, executive chef of the Fat Duck Group,
heads the kitchen.  Mandarin Oriental Hyde Park, 66 Knightsbridge, SW1X 7LA.
Information: +44-20-7201-3833;  http://www.dinnerbyheston.com/ .  3. CUT: Steak restaurants are among the most prolific new
entrants to the London dining scene and you might do a lot worse
than try CUT, the U.K. outpost of Beverly Hills chef Wolfgang Puck.  The meat, the sides, the desserts -- and even the fish --
are immaculately prepared. The prices are high and you never
lose the sense that you are dining in a hotel, yet the quality
of the food is what impresses most.  45  Park Lane , W1K 1QA. Information: +44-20-7493-4554;
 http://www.45parklane.com/cut-at-45-park-lane .  4. Hawksmoor Seven Dials: If you enjoy steak at some place
with more buzz, Hawksmoor may be for you.  This was the second outlet -- a third now has opened in the
City -- and is notable for the attention to detail that shows up
in everything from the bar stools to the bone-in prime rib.
Casual dishes such as the kimchi burger and the lobster roll
also aren’t to be sneezed at.  11 Langley Street, WC2H 9JG. Information: +44-20-7856-2154;
 http://thehawksmoor.com/ .  5. Spuntino:  Russell Norman  is one of London’s most
influential restaurateurs as well as one of the most active,
opening five different establishments in the space of two years.
You sit at the bar in Spuntino and order comfort food such as
mini-burgers or macaroni and cheese. There are no reservations,
so in the early days you may face a long wait.  Norman has just added Mishkin’s to his stable, and you can
book there.  61 Rupert Street, W1D 7PJ. Information:
 http://www.spuntino.co.uk/ . (No telephone line.)  6. Opera Tavern: This casual restaurant serves plates of
Spanish and Italian food that are small in size and big in
flavor, thanks in part to the charcoal grill.  The ground-floor bar buzzes more than the upstairs dining
room and the prize seats are at the bar itself. While you can’t
book those in advance, there’s no harm in requesting them.  23 Catherine Street, WC2B 5JS. Information:
+44-20-7836-3680;  http://www.operatavern.co.uk .  7. Cigalon: This low-key Provencal restaurant is bright and
charming, with a glass ceiling over a leafy dining room. It’s
unpretentious, yet not without ambition.  The dishes are unfussy and there’s an enjoyable selection
of Provencal and Corsican wines to accompany them. This is the
latest establishment from Pascal Aussignac and Vincent Labeyrie,
the business partners who own the excellent Club Gascon.  115 Chancery Lane, WC2A 1PP. Information: +44-20-7242-8373;
 http://www.cigalon.co.uk/ .  8. Savoy Grill:  Gordon Ramsay ’s popularity in the U.K.
isn’t at its highest level, and the TV chef pulled out the stops
to get this one right. The Grill at the Savoy Hotel has an
illustrious history and Ramsay has the balance right between
respecting tradition and embracing modern dining.  The dishes are a mix between classics and contemporary,
while the service is respectful without being stuffy.  5 Strand, WC2R 0EU. Information: +44-20-7592-1600;
 http://www.gordonramsay.com/thesavoygrill/ .  9. Riding House Cafe: This large and casual brasserie in
Fitzrovia quickly found favor with office workers and others in
a part of central London that is only slowly accumulating good
restaurants. This is an establishment with simple food and
friendly service that offers value for money.  It’s a good formula in the current climate and one that
more restaurateurs are envisaging.  43-51 Great Titchfield Street, W1W 7PQ. Information:
+44-20-7927-0840;  http://ridinghousecafe.co.uk/ .  10. The  Gilbert Scott : This is the British brasserie of
two-Michelin-star chef  Marcus Wareing , who made his name as
Ramsay’s right-hand man, cooking modern French cuisine at
Petrus. The new venue was disappointing in its opening months,
with tables too tightly packed and some dodgy service.  Yet the dishes are good and the prices not too steep, so
now may be the time to revisit.  St. Pancras Renaissance Hotel, Euston Road, NW1 2AR.
Information: +44-20-7278-3888;  http://www.thegilbertscott.co.uk .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 