-- 
One in Five LBO Investors to Cut European Holdings, Survey Finds

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-12-12T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/one-in-five-lbo-investors-to-cut-european-holdings-survey-finds.html
One in five private-equity investors
intends to reduce its holdings in European funds because of the
sovereign-debt crisis, according to an industry survey.  Those investors concerned about  Europe  come from all
regions of the world, according to a survey by  Coller Capital
Ltd. , a London-based firm that purchases stakes in funds from
investors seeking to sell. Still, about 69 percent of so-called
limited partners said they are unlikely to change their
allocation to the region, while 11 percent intend to increase
their holdings, Coller found.  “Limited partners invest for the long term and there has
to have stability for them to do so,” said Stephen Ziff, a
partner at Coller. “They need to feel confident that Europe
will come to grips with its crisis. But overall, investors have
the feeling that 2012 will be a good vintage year, a sentiment
strongest among U.S. LPs who have lived through more cycles.”  Investors, known as limited partners, are shrinking pledges
to new private-equity funds, partly because they haven’t
received enough money back from previous pools to match
commitments during the boom years. Private-equity managers,
which are seeking $711 billion in commitments globally, raised
46 percent less in the third quarter than in the previous three
months as the European debt crisis deepened, according to
London-based researcher Preqin Ltd.  A “typical” limited partner intends to turn down about a
quarter of requests to commit with a  fund manager  it already has
invested with, Coller said. Even if they decide to “re-up,”
the majority will reduce commitments in the next 18 months,
according to the survey.  About 57 percent of limited partners say the need to
refinance the “wall” of leveraged-buyout debt maturing from
2013 to 2015 is a major risk to the private-equity industry, the
study found.  The survey of 107 limited partners, including pension funds
and sovereign-wealth funds, was conducted in August and
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  