-- 
Hong Kong’s Richest Man, Bankers to Choose Leader to Succeed Donald Tsang

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-12-12T06:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/hong-kong-s-richest-man-bankers-to-choose-leader-to-succeed-donald-tsang.html
Hong Kong’s wealthiest resident,  Li Ka-shing , will help choose the successor to Chief Executive
 Donald Tsang  along with HSBC Holdings Plc banker  Peter Wong  and
actor Stephen Chow.  Li is part of a 1,200-member election committee that will 
pick the city’s new leader in March, according to a government 
website. He’s joined by Lee Shau Kee, founder of Henderson Land
Development Co., Hang Seng Bank Ltd. Chief Executive Officer
Margaret Leung and other executives, sparking criticism the
panel isn’t representative of a city with Asia’s widest rich-
poor gap.  Hong Kong’s next top official inherits a city of 7 million
people facing slowing  economic growth , surging  home prices  and a
government with record-low approval ratings. Next year’s vote is
part of a process that aims to give the former British colony
universal suffrage in choosing its top leader in 2017.  “It’s a small-circle election of narrow interests for a
committee that’s skewed in favor of those identified with the
business and professional groups,” said Ma Ngok, an associate
professor in political science at the Chinese University of  Hong
Kong . “The general public can’t participate in this, but many
issues in discussion will impact their daily lives.”  Guaranteed Seats  Of the 1,200 members, 91 will be representatives from
 China ’s National People’s Congress and the Chinese People’s
Political Consultative Conference, the nation’s top political
advisory body. Hong Kong lawmakers are  guaranteed  seats. The
rest comes from district councils, religious groups and industry
sectors including real estate and finance. Most of the groups
elected their representatives yesterday.  Henry Tang , a former chief secretary, and former government
adviser Leung Chun-ying have announced their candidacies to
replace Tsang, who steps down in June after running the city for
seven years. Tsang’s public support has slumped to record low
levels, a poll conducted by the University of Hong Kong shows.  Tang, 59, was financial secretary before becoming Hong
Kong’s second-highest ranked official, a career path that
mirrored Tsang’s. His father is Tang Hsiang Chien, ranked the
40th-richest person in Hong Kong in 2010 by Forbes Magazine.
Peter Wong, chief executive officer for Asia Pacific at HSBC,
and  Joseph Yam , former head of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority,
both said they support Tang’s candidacy.  Leung, the outgoing Asia Pacific chairman of DTZ Group, a
property broker that was purchased this month by UGL Ltd., has
said Hong Kong’s citizens seek change in how the city is
governed. Aged 57, he was a non-official member of the Executive
Council, which advises the government on major policy issues.  Political Reform  Of the 237,548 registered voters who pick people for the
election committee, about 27.5 percent turned out, according to
the Hong Kong government. Results are still been tallied.  Hong Kong last year adopted a political reform package that
increased the number of committee members to 1,200 from 800, a
move aimed at making elections more democratic.  Tens of thousands of demonstrators marched to protest
inequality and surging housing prices on July 1, the 14th
anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to Chinese rule. Property
prices in the city have risen 70 percent since the start of 2009.  Hong Kong’s economy grew 0.1 percent in the three months
ended September from the previous period, with inflation,
excluding distortions from government subsidies, accelerating to
a record 6.4 percent in October. The city has the widest wealth
gap in  Asia , according to a report by the  United Nations  in 2008.  Christopher Pratt, chairman of Swire Pacific Ltd.; Lui Che- woo, chairman of Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd.; Robert Ng,
chairman of Sino Land Co.;  Thomas Kwok , joint chairman of Sun
Hung Kai Properties Ltd.; Vincent Lo, chairman of Shui On Land
Ltd. and Ronnie Chan, chairman of Hang Lung Properties Ltd.,
were among those who be part of the election committee,
according to the results.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  