-- 
Onyx Shares Fall After FDA Rejects Accelerated Review for Cancer Treatment

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-12-12T21:20:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/onyx-shares-fall-after-fda-rejects-accelerated-review-for-cancer-drug.html
Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) , maker of
the kidney cancer drug Nexavar, dropped the most in about six
weeks after U.S. regulators declined to give the company’s
experimental carfilzomib an accelerated review.  Onyx fell 4 percent to $39 at the close of trading in New
York, its largest single-day decline since Nov. 1. Shares of the
South San Francisco, California-based company have increased 5.8
percent this year.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said Onyx hadn’t conducted
the clinical trials necessary for the quicker review of
carfilzomib, the company said yesterday in a statement. The
agency scheduled a target date of July 27, four months later
than under an accelerated approval, to decide whether to clear
the drug for patients with multiple myeloma, a cancer of plasma
cells, Onyx said. The company submitted its application in
September.  “We are surprised by the FDA’s timeline, but remain
confident that carfilzomib will be approved and recommend
purchase of Onyx on weakness,” Gene Mack, an analyst with
Mizuho Securities in  New York , wrote in a research note today.  Mack said he anticipates an oncology drug advisory panel to
review the medicine in June, and lowered his estimate for 2012
sales to $50 million from $70 million because of the delay.  “We feel comfortable that we have addressed the key risks
and that this is a compound that deserves to be approved either
on an accelerated basis or a full basis,” Chief Executive
Officer Tony Coles told analysts on a conference call today.
“Carfilzomib could become an integral part of the treatment
options available to multiple myeloma patients.”  Ted Love, Onyx’s head of research and development, said the
company was preparing for a panel hearing, and that Onyx didn’t
yet know if the FDA would require one.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  