-- 
Top 10 Toasts Rothschild Fizz, $3,500 Port, Boxed Chardonnay

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-12-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/top-10-toasts-rothschild-fizz-3-500-port-boxed-chardonnay.html
In 2011, I traveled to wineries on
four continents and sampled more than 5,000 wines, from old
classics to promising new cuvees, in search of the
recommendable. As usual, I encountered plenty of overpriced
plonk as well as the stunning and memorable.  My top 10 this year are an eclectic mix, from an esoteric
natural wine to a super-scarce cult bottling to a white from a
country not renowned for its wine. All reflect where the wine
world is today -- and point to where it’s going next.  NV Barons de Rothschild  Blanc de Blancs Champagne ($125)  My current bling wine is this hyper-elegant fizz, the best
of a trio of champagnes in the first joint wine venture of the
Rothschild clan. The three branches of the famous banking and
wine-growing families separately own Bordeaux chateaux Lafite,
Mouton and Clarke, so for wineloving show-offs, the pedigree
can’t be beat. Yes, it’s too expensive, but its subtle
complexity and creamy texture backed up its label power in a  New
York  launch tasting with project chairman Philippe Sereys de
Rothschild, whose mother owns Mouton.  1998 Giuseppe Quintarelli Alzero Cabernet ($325)  I’d never tried this rare, mostly cabernet franc blend,
made Amarone-style from dried grapes by Italian maestro Giuseppe
Quintarelli. So when a generous host pulled out the 1998, I
happily reveled in its cedar and truffle aromas and savored its
deep velvety texture. One of Italy’s most compelling wines, it
rivals Bordeaux’s far pricier Cheval Blanc.  2003  Gravner  Ribolla Gialla Anfora ($115)  “Orange” wines are the latest buzzworthy natural trend.
They’re whites made the way reds are, by letting juice macerate
with the skins to pick up color and tannin. My favorite of those
I’ve tasted this year is this fascinating, powerful, honey-and-
heather wine from  Italy ’s Friuli region. Esoteric winemaking
adds to the allure. Inventive vintner Josko Gravner ages it in
buried terracotta amphoras.  2011  Cultivate Wonderlust  Chardonnay ($35, 3 liter box)  Clinton Global Initiative  attendees inhaled glasses of this
superior box wine at a September VIP reception for the former
President. The bright, fresh, spearminty chardonnay from Chilean
grapes is my bargain pick, and not just because of its quality
to price ratio. Ten percent of the price goes to good causes,
which you can vote for on the website. (Masterminds behind it
are ex-Screaming Eagle owner Charles Banks and wife Ali.)  2009  Magrez-Aruga  Koshu ($35)  Surprise of the year. This fresh, delicate white is made
from Japanese grape variety koshu in Yamanashi prefecture. It’s
an east-west project of Bordeaux chateau owner Bernard Magrez
and Katsunuma winery owner Yuuji Aruga. The wine’s lightly
floral aromas and subtle citrus-and-chalk flavors convinced me
 Japan  has a wine country future.  2001  Grant Burge  The Holy Trinity ($35)  I had low expectations for this 10-year-old Australian
Barossa Valley red when I found a forgotten bottle of it in my
cellar. Like many wine lovers, I’ve trashed the region’s reds as
expensive over-the-top fruit bombs. Clearly we shouldn’t write
off all of them: 10 years of aging turned this balanced
grenache-shiraz-mourvedre blend into a scented, wonderfully
plummy wine with silky tannins.  2005  Klein Constantia  Vin de Constance ($50, 500ml)  South Africa ’s sweet Constantia wines, coveted by 19th
century royals, also consoled Napoleon in exile on Saint Helena.
Forgotten after phylloxera devastated the Cape’s vineyards, the
legendary late-harvest muscat was revived in the 1980s. On a
South African wine tour I tasted several vintages and was wowed
by the 2005’s heady, honeysuckle aromas and taste of sweet
apricots and candied orange peels. When are wine lovers going to
wake up and embrace sweet wines?  2006  Louis Jadot  Corton-Charlemagne ($110)  This year, I’ve had my fair share of rare stellar
Burgundies that cost hundreds to thousands of dollars a bottle.
But this deep, rich, luscious and perfectly balanced white,
savored in  Hong Kong  before a record-breaking auction, reminded
me that it’s still possible to find stunning Burgundies from
grand cru vineyards for just over $100. Jadot’s ageworthy
bottling, from the domaine’s prime 4.9-acre (2 hectare) parcel,
is what the greatness of chardonnay is all about.  Taylor Fladgate  Scion Port ($3,500)  Who wouldn’t love this story? An elderly woman in
 Portugal ’s remote Douro region dies, leaving two heirloom casks
of port that have been aging quietly for 150 years. Famous port
house buys same and releases 1,400 bottles of this 1855 pre-
phylloxera tawny in fancy boxes. This incredibly complex spice
and toffee wine is up to the tale. A high price? Well, it’s only
$23 per year of aging.  1983  Chateau Musar  Red ($370-$440)  I’d never miss a tasting of old vintages from Lebanon’s
Chateau Musar with owner Serge Hochar, one of the world’s wine
heroes. During decades of conflict, with bombs exploding, he
still managed to harvest grapes and make his thought-provoking
wines. At New York’s Hearth restaurant he poured six reds, his
grand vin cabernet and Rhone-grapes blend. My pick was the great
spice-and-rose-petal-scented 1983. As battles raged, Hochar had
to be smuggled into the winery to make it.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 