-- 
Morgan Stanley Ordered to Halt Singapore Suit

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-12-13T04:34:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/morgan-stanley-blocked-from-singapore-lawsuit-by-u-s-judge.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  can’t ask a court in
Singapore to block investors there from suing outside the
country over their losses on $154.7 million in synthetic
collateralized debt obligations, a judge in New York ruled.  The New York-based bank’s attempt is vexatious, U.S.
District Judge Leonard Sand said yesterday, granting a request
by investors including the  Singapore Government Staff Credit
Cooperative Society Ltd . to stop Morgan Stanley from seeking a
Singapore High Court order.  Several Morgan Stanley units created a “classic bait and
switch scheme secretly designed to benefit Morgan Stanley” at
customers’ expense, according to the lawsuit filed in October
2010. The investors claim Morgan Stanley didn’t tell them it was
a counter-party to the agreements, meaning that for each dollar
the investors lost, the bank gained a dollar.  Morgan Stanley disagrees with the ruling and its  Singapore 
court action was entirely appropriate, Hong Kong-based spokesman
 Nick Footitt  said today.  “This dispute involved plaintiffs who are all based in
Singapore, who purchased notes in Singapore, and who
contractually agreed to the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Singapore courts,” he said.  Morgan Stanley, which had sought to have the investors’
lawsuit thrown out because the Monetary Authority of Singapore
investigated the sale of structured financial products and
created a resolution system, this month denied any wrongdoing.  ‘Fare Better’  Morgan Stanley has “a sense they would fare better in
Singapore,” said Eugene Tan, assistant professor of law at the
 Singapore Management University .  Any alleged misstatements by Morgan Stanley on the notes
“were mere puffery or were vague statements of optimism,” the
bank said in a court filing. “Defendants had no duty to
disclose the allegedly omitted information.”  In October, Sand dismissed some of the investors’ claims
and permitted the rest of the case to go forward. One month
later, Morgan Stanley asked the Singapore court for an order
blocking the investors from pursuing the case.  “Rather than availing themselves of the remedies available
here, defendants are attempting to require the plaintiffs to
begin anew in Singapore,” Sand said yesterday in his ruling. He
also denied the New York-based bank’s request that he certify
his October decision for pretrial appeal.  Pinnacle Notes  The plaintiffs seek to represent a class of all investors
who bought the  Pinnacle Notes  from Aug. 1, 2006, to the end of
2007.  A group of investors in Singapore last month lost a bid to
recoup losses on Lehman-related products with an appeal court in
the city state ruling that “the principle of caveat emptor
applies equally to literates and illiterates,” using the Latin
phrase for ‘buyer beware.’’  The Monetary Authority of Singapore banned 10 financial
institutions from selling structured investments in 2009
following claims by investors that they were misled on products
tied to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The authority  lifted the ban  last year after the
institutions boosted internal procedures of their advisory
services across all investment products.  Tan said the disputes surrounding collateralized debt
obligations were unique.  “I don’t think investors are going to have a different
investment climate in Singapore based on this lawsuit” against
Morgan Stanley, he said.  The case is Dandong v. Pinnacle Performance Ltd., 10-
cv-08086, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  