-- 
Torrent Power, Adani, JSW Steel May Get Boost From Climate Talks

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-12T09:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/torrent-power-adani-jsw-steel-may-get-boost-from-climate-talks.html
Torrent Power Ltd. (TPW) ,  Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI) 
and  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  may be among the Indian companies most likely
to benefit from climate change talks in  South Africa  that helped
ensure the continuation of the UN carbon market past 2012.  The European Union, the world’s biggest carbon market,
vowed to extend emission-reduction targets under the  Kyoto
Protocol  that were set to expire in 2012. Those targets can
partly be met through the UN carbon market, known as the Clean
Development Mechanism, which awards tradable credits to
companies that set up environmentally friendly projects.  “What has been most important for the markets is that at
the end of 2012, the Clean Development Mechanism will continue
in some form for another five to eight years,” said Jeremy Higgs, the Hong Kong-based managing director of Environmental
Investment Services Asia Ltd., whose Green Dragon Fund invests
in regional clean-technology companies. “That’s good news for
those companies that do and could benefit from selling carbon
credits.”  Torrent Power, Adani Power and JSW Steel own power plants
and steel factories with emission-reducing equipment that are
set to earn the most tradable credits in  India  up to 2020. They
may win more than 77 million credits valued at about 400 million
euros ($534 million) based on their Dec. 9 closing price,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Other publicly traded companies that earn money from
selling credits from environmentally friendly projects in India
include  Greenko Group Plc (GKO) , which is working with General
Electric Co. to build wind farms in the South Asian nation,
Orient Green Power Co. and  KSK Energy Ventures Ltd. (KSK)   SRF Ltd. (SRF) , Gujarat Fluorochemicals Ltd. and Navin Flourine
International Ltd. have earned the most credits to date among
Indian companies for projects that reduce industrial gas
emissions. Those particular credits will turn into “junk”
after 2013 without buyers because the EU has decided to ban
them, saying they create “windfall” profits undermining the
market, according to Geoff Sinclair, London-based head of carbon
trading at Standard Bank Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  