-- 
Swiss Stocks Retreat; Moody’s Reviews All EU Members’ Ratings

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-12-12T17:05:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/most-swiss-stocks-fall-as-germany-damps-speculation-on-ecb-role.html
Swiss stocks (SMI)  declined, paring last
week’s advance, after Moody’s Investors Service said it is
reviewing all national credit ratings in  Europe  following last
week’s European Union debt summit.  Swiss Re Ltd. dropped 3.7 percent after the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer said Chief Executive Officer Stefan Lippe has
decided to step down next year. Holcim Ltd., the  second-largest
cement maker (HOLN) , slipped 3 percent.  The Swiss Market Index, a measure of the largest and most
actively traded companies, declined 0.8 percent to 5,747.09 at
the close in Zurich. The broader Swiss Performance Index
decreased 0.9 percent.  The benchmark measure rose on Dec. 9 after European Union
policy makers agreed to tighten budget rules for the 17
countries in the euro area to prevent debt building up in
future. They also brought forward the start of the planned 500
billion-euro ($659 billion) European Stability Mechanism and
dropped a demand that investors share the cost of bailouts.  “Events last week did not change things fundamentally,”
said Luca Bindelli, a senior investment strategist at Credit
Suisse Asset Management in Zurich, where he helps oversee a
discretionary portfolio of 110 billion Swiss francs ($118
billion). “What would have changed things would have been more
bold movements towards a fiscal union and closer integration:
something that was a bit more credible in terms of
enforceability.”  Moody’s said it will review the ratings of all EU countries
in the first quarter, saying the summit failed to deliver
“decisive policy measures” to end the debt crisis.  Budget Rules  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann told the Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung that governments, rather than the
Frankfurt-based ECB, must resolve the debt crisis.  Germany ’s top
central banker added that the new accord on budget rules
represents progress.  “The mandate for redistributing taxpayer money among
 member states  clearly does not lie in monetary policy,”
Weidmann told the newspaper in an interview published yesterday.
“Financing of sovereign debt through central banks is and
remains forbidden by treaty.”  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble yesterday said
that euro-area policy makers have to implement the Dec. 9 accord
quickly.  “We have to regain the lost trust of the financial markets
and investors across the globe,” Schaeuble said in an interview
on Germany’s ARD television.  “The market seems to be split in two, with one part
looking forward, seeing the results of the summit as something
to build on,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at PFA
Pension A/S, which manages $45 billion, in Copenhagen. “The
other half is thinking nothing changed after the summit.”  Credit Suisse Slides  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the 121-year-old Swiss wealth
manager, dropped 3 percent to 33.75 Swiss francs and Credit
Suisse,  Switzerland’s second-biggest lender (CSGN) , retreated 3.6
percent to 22.15 francs as financial shares contributed the most
to the SMI’s slide.  Swiss Re dropped 3.7 percent to 47.63 francs after saying
Lippe has decided to retire early and will stand down next year.
The Zurich-based company said it will “soon” name a successor
to Lippe, 56, who it appointed CEO in 2009.  Holcim slipped 3 percent to 50.95 francs after a report
showed that  China’s exports  rose last month at the slowest pace
since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  