-- 
Palestinians Will Invent a State Next: Michael Kinsley

-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 
2011-12-12T00:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/palestinians-next-invention-will-be-a-state-michael-kinsley.html
(Corrects date of UN vote in 11th paragraph.)  In November 1947, shortly after the
 United Nations  voted for partition of the Holy Land into
separate Arab and Jewish states,  Chaim Weizmann  was cited by the
New York Times as saying that “the most important work now was
to build Palestine.”   What? To build Palestine? Yes, in 1947 the
word “Palestinian” --if it meant anything at all -- referred
to Jews living in Palestine. The  Palestine Post  (now the
 Jerusalem  Post) was the Jewish English-language newspaper. The
Palestine Orchestra (now the Israel Philharmonic) was a Jewish
orchestra, filled to overflowing with Holocaust survivors. The
United Palestine Appeal, an American charity, raised money to
resettle homeless Jews from  Europe  in Palestine -- one of the
things Arabs objected to the most.  Arabs living in the territory of Palestine were called
“Arabs” -- or, very occasionally, “Palestinian Arabs.” This
was in keeping with the philosophy promoted by  Egypt ’s leader,
Gamal Abdel Nasser, among others, and known as pan-Arabism. It
held that all places where Arabs ruled were part of one big Arab
nation. Nasser, who more or less ran the joint before the rise
of the oil powers, wasn’t interested in adding new sovereign
nations to the map.  This history is probably what  Newt Gingrich  had in mind
when he commented last week that the Palestinians are “an
invented people.”  For two decades before they lost the Six-Day War in 1967,
Arabs controlled the entire West Bank, the  Gaza Strip  and half
of Jerusalem. They could have established a Palestinian state
anytime they wanted. They never tried. The famous  UN Resolution
242 , which ended the Six-Day War, makes no reference to
Palestinians, but just refers to “refugees.”  1967 War  In short, Newt’s right, up to a point. Until the 1970s,
Palestinian nationalism was almost unheard-of. It had to be
“invented” after 1967. But it was invented, and now it can’t
be uninvented. Today, acknowledging the Palestinians’ right, at
least in theory, to a state of their own is the price of
admission to any serious discussion of the  Middle East . Even
Israel’s right-wing prime minister,  Benjamin Netanyahu , feels
obliged to give it lip service.  It doesn’t really matter that Palestinian nationalism is a
recent confection. People who want a state should have a state.
That seems to be the rule. In an era when the former  Soviet
Union  continues to break apart like a cookie, with each crumb
claiming sovereignty over a piece of territory, and the claimed
territories often overlapping, it’s hard to argue for a higher
standard.   In the 1980s and 1990s I worked at the  New Republic , a
fervently pro-Zionist publication. Many’s the night I worked
late editing articles I wasn’t sure I agreed with, offering yet
one more reason why a Palestinian state was unthinkable. These
days the position of Jews in the U.S. and in  Israel  seems to be
something like a resigned shrug. The Palestinians want a state?
Two chunks of unconnected territory, one of them controlled by
religious maniacs prone to violence, the other ruled by the
political heirs of  Yasser Arafat ? OK, let them have a state, if
we can settle other issues like borders and refugees. See how
they like it.  Newt also isn’t completely off the wall in describing the
situation as a struggle “between a civilian democracy that
obeys the rule of law and a group of terrorists that are firing
missiles every day.” If he had thought a bit before opening his
trap, Gingrich might have wanted to distinguish between the
 Palestinian Authority , which rules in the  West Bank , and Hamas,
which controls Gaza.  Hamas and Fatah  Hamas is the one firing missiles. But even regarding the
Palestinian Authority, it’s incredible that all it has taken for
the  Palestine Liberation Organization  (which conducted the
slaughter at the Munich Olympics, among other atrocities) to
become an acceptable future Palestinian government is to have
found a leader who wears a suit and tie and knows how to shave.
Palestine Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  is considered the
grown-up, the trustworthy negotiating partner, the one you
complain to when Hamas misbehaves.  You can get in great trouble if you say that Israel also
has its terrorist past. And to be sure there are big
differences. But there are also similarities. If you’ve perused
the New York Times coverage of the Middle East in the weeks
before and after the 1947 UN vote (hey, a guy’s got to have a
hobby), you’ll see references to the Irgun and the Stern Gang,
two Jewish guerrilla groups, as “Jewish terrorists.” The label
was considered obvious and beyond controversy.  Gingrich said that  Palestine  had to be invented, and this
is true. It is also true of Israel, which didn’t even have a
name as it declared its independence in May 1948. President
 Harry Truman ’s typewritten message recognizing the new nation
has “Jewish state” crossed out and “State of Israel”
scrawled in what looks like pencil.  Modern Jewish nationalism only goes back to 1896 when
Theodore Herzl published his book, “Der Judenstaat” (“The
Jewish State”), which put the question back in the public
debate for the first time in centuries. From 1896 to 1948 is 52
years. That’s how long it took for the Jewish state to go from
an idea to a reality. Even if Palestinian nationalism started as
late as 1967, 52 years later would be 2019. Eight years from
now. I doubt it will take that long.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  