-- 
House Set to Vote on Payroll Tax Bill Reid Calls ‘Partisan Joke’

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-12-13T20:36:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/payroll-tax-cut-extension-measure-sets-up-dueling-votes-in-u-s-congress.html
The Republican-controlled U.S. House
of Representatives will vote today on extending an employee
 payroll tax  cut, putting pressure on the Senate and continuing a
year-end legislative fight affecting workers’ paychecks.  The White House threatened to veto the House measure, and
Democrats are resisting Republicans’ attempt to use it as a
vehicle to revamp the  unemployment  compensation system and
expedite a Canadian oil pipeline. Senate Democratic leader  Harry Reid  gave the first hint of his next step today, saying he would
add $35 billion in extensions of miscellaneous tax breaks to a
 payroll tax  cut.  “Until you make the move, they won’t make a move,” said
Representative  John Campbell , a California Republican, in an
interview. “And then we can’t make another move until they make
theirs. So it’s day-by-day, if not hour-by-hour.”  The House vote is scheduled for this afternoon in
Washington, and Republican leaders said they expect the measure
to pass. Senate Democrats may bring it up for a vote today or
tomorrow to show that it can’t get the 60 votes needed to
overcome procedural hurdles in that chamber, said a leadership
aide who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss strategy.  Education Funds  A White House message said the House bill would endanger
education and clean energy funds, and would be funded by working
people while “giving a free pass to the wealthiest and to big
corporations.” The statement didn’t mention the Keystone XL
pipeline, which would link  Canada ’s oil sands with Texas
refineries.  The miscellaneous expiring breaks, which include incentives
such as a research and development tax credit and a benefit for
banks’ overseas operations, expire Dec. 31. They include the
ability to deduct state sales taxes and accelerated depreciation
for some restaurants and motorsports tracks. Companies such as
General Electric Co., Whirlpool Corp., Microsoft Corp. and Xerox
Corp. support for extension of some of the items in the package.  “They’re extremely important,” Reid said today of the tax
breaks, without specifying which he would seek to extend in the
package. “They’re job creating.”  ‘Ideological Candy’  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said at a news conference that the
House bill is loaded with “ideological candy” that he would
reject.  “They’re really wasting time catering to the Tea Party
folks over there when they should be working with us on a
bipartisan package that can pass both houses,” Reid said.
“We’ve offered solutions, a series of good-faith proposals with
bipartisan support.”  House Republicans , meanwhile, were rallying around their
proposal.  “It’s a job creator and that’s what we’ve been focused
on,” said Representative Lynn Westmoreland, a Georgia
Republican, in an interview.  Democrats and Republicans remain far apart over the details
of extending the payroll tax cut for a year and how to pay for
it. After today’s vote, House and Senate leaders may begin
negotiating legislation that could pass both chambers before the
payroll tax cut expires Dec. 31.  “I haven’t gotten to the final chapter to see how it all
turns out,” Senator  Ben Nelson , a Nebraska Democrat, told
reporters.  Next Move  House Speaker  John Boehner  told reporters today that he
would consider his next move after the Senate acted.  If the break isn’t extended by Dec. 31, employees will
begin paying a 6.2 percent tax on their first $110,100 in wages
in January, up from 4.2 percent this year. The payroll tax funds
Social Security.  The House bill also extends expanded federal  unemployment
benefits  and prevents doctors’ reimbursements under Medicare
from being reduced as scheduled in January. It includes a pay
freeze for federal civilian workers, more stringent income-
eligibility requirements for Medicare benefits and a move toward
a 59-week limit on unemployment benefits, down from 99 weeks
today.  Dec. 16 Deadline  Republican leaders said Reid is seeking commitments from
Republicans about how to resolve the payroll tax legislation
before he signs off on an agreement that would fund government
agencies for the rest of the fiscal year. Unless Congress acts,
funding for the government will expire Dec. 16.  “I’m hopeful that the Senate leaders will come to their
senses,” Boehner said. “There’s no reason to hold this bill
up.”  Senate Democratic leaders hardened their opposition to the
House Republican measure before today’s vote.  Richard Durbin  of
 Illinois , the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat, said lawmakers must cover
the cost of extending the payroll tax cut with new revenue
instead of spending cuts. Republicans have blocked Senate
Democrats’ proposals to pay for the payroll tax cut by imposing
a surtax on income exceeding $1 million a year.  “If we do pay for it, it’s going to be paid for with a
revenue source, such as the millionaire’s tax,” Durbin said in
an interview yesterday. “It’s not going to be paid for with
spending cuts.”  Keystone Pipeline  One of the most significant areas of disagreement is
whether to include language expediting the approval of
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline.  The $202.4 billion Republican bill, sponsored by House Ways
and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican,
would require a decision on the issue within 60 days. The Obama
administration has pushed back issuance of a permit to 2013, a
move Republicans criticize as designed to delay action until
after the 2012 election.  Obama said Dec. 7 that he would reject linking the pipeline
to extension of the payroll tax cut. White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  said yesterday that including the Keystone issue in
the payroll tax cut bill sends the message that “there’s a
political trade-off to be had that extending tax cuts for
middle-class and working Americans should only occur in return
for a political gift, or an ideological item.”  “We simply disagree,” Carney said.  ‘Arbitrary’ Decision  Boehner said he wouldn’t rule out negotiating a compromise
with Democrats if they reject the Keystone provision. Still, he
dismissed criticism that the House bill imposes an arbitrary
deadline for the administration to act on the pipeline.  “The only thing arbitrary about this decision is the
decision by the president to say ‘Well, let’s wait until after
the election,’” Boehner said.  The House bill is H.R. 3630.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  