-- 
Pentagon’s Top Civilian Female Michele Flournoy Plans to Resign

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-12-12T23:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/pentagon-s-top-civilian-female-michele-flournoy-plans-to-resign.html
Undersecretary of Defense Michele Flournoy, the highest-ranking female civilian to hold office at
the Pentagon, will step down in February.  Flournoy, who took her post in February, 2009, wants to
spend more time with her family and doesn’t have future job
plans, said Tara Rigler, a spokeswoman for the Pentagon.
Flournoy, 50, is married to Department of Veterans Affairs
Deputy Secretary W. Scott Gould. They have three children.  As the department’s policy chief, Flournoy helped conduct
the strategy review by President Barack Obama’s administration
on Afghanistan and  Pakistan , led renewed defense talks with
 China  and oversaw the department’s Quadrennial Defense Review.
She had been discussed within the administration as a prospect
to become the first female U.S. Defense Secretary.  Flournoy wasn’t available for an interview, Rigler said.  “In her discussions with me, Michele made clear that her
decision to leave is motivated by personal and family
considerations,” Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said in a
statement today. “I am very pleased that she has agreed to stay
on until early next year to enable a smooth transition.”  The February departure will allow time for Obama to
nominate a successor while the Pentagon completes a strategy
review and releases its blueprint to reduce planned defense
spending by $450 billion over the next decade.  Deputy’s Job  Her decision to leave comes two months after another
undersecretary, acquisitions chief  Ashton Carter , was confirmed
by the Senate as deputy to Panetta.  Michael O’Hanlon , director of research at the Brookings
Institution policy group in  Washington , said he doesn’t believe
Flournoy’ departure is linked to her not being tapped for the
deputy’s job.  “Three years is a good stint and she deserves a break,”
O’Hanlon said. “She can and should be a candidate someday” for
defense secretary, he said.  Before joining the Obama administration, Flournoy was co-
founder of the Center for a New American Security, a policy
group in Washington.  Flournoy plans to support Obama’s re-election next year in
an informal capacity, as well as do public speaking and private
advising, the  Associated Press  reported today, citing an
interview with her. She said she needed to re-balance her life
with more attention to her family, the AP reported.  “She has built an incredible team that is a testament to
her leadership,” Panetta said in the statement. “I’m confident
that she will have many years of service in her future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 