-- 
Peru Will Hire Consultants to Review Newmont Gold Project

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-12-12T16:05:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/peru-to-hire-consultants-to-review-stalled-newmont-gold-project.html
Newmont Mining Corp. ’s suspended
$4.8 billion Minas Conga gold mine development, the largest
investment project in  Peru , will be reviewed by international
consultants for environmental effects, the government said.  An overhaul of the deposit’s environmental impact study
aims to eliminate opposition to the project, newly appointed
Cabinet Chief Oscar Valdes Dancuart said. Valdes was sworn in by
President Ollanta Humala yesterday as part of a cabinet shake-up
that included the Energy & Mines Ministry.  “This is a technical and absolutely neutral solution which
will avoid continuing a debate between state entities and Andean
communities,” Valdes said at the Presidential Palace in  Lima .
“Soon we will learn whether the project is viable or not.”  Newmont, the biggest U.S. gold producer, suspended the gold
project on Nov. 30 after protests by villagers concerned that
the deposit will dry up water supplies. Humala quelled the
protests by declaring a state of emergency in the northern Andes
on Dec. 4. Denver-based Newmont said it will seek talks with the
government and communities opposed to the project.  The Andean country is relying on $50 billion in investments
to stop a decline in minerals output from aging, depleted mines.
Protests by farmers this year halted projects by companies
including  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Bear
Creek Mining Corp. (BCM)   ‘Calculated Risk’  The cabinet changes will allow Humala to take a “more
coherent approach” to mining conflicts after two government
officials resigned in disagreement over his handling of the
dispute, said Nader Nazmi, a senior Latin America economist at
BNP Paribas.  “Humala appears to have taken a calculated risk of
alienating some of his supporters in the interest of the
economic model which crucially relies on the windfall from the
mining sector,” Nazmi said in a report to clients today.
“Humala’s success will depend on his ability to use this
windfall to finance social projects.”  Humala yesterday appointed Jorge Merino as energy & mines
minister, replacing Carlos Herrera. Merino headed state mining
company Centromin SA during its privatization in the 1990s and
later oversaw the sale of state mining assets at Proinversion,
the government agency to promote private investment.  Property Destroyed  Herrera and former Cabinet Chief Salomon Lerner led
negotiations with communities in the northern Andean region of
Cajamarca for the past two months. Villagers attacked Newmont’s
installations twice in this period, destroying $2 million of
machinery and burning a warehouse.  “The government is working to find ways to resolve this
issue in a rational and responsible manner, and we are open to
their recommendations,” Newmont spokesman Omar Jabara said
today in e-mailed comments. Newmont’s 13-year study was reviewed
by 12 Peruvian government agencies and approved by the Energy &
Mines Ministry last year, he said.  Newmont fell 2.8 percent to $65.07 at 11:01 a.m. in  New
York . The stock has climbed 5.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  