-- 
Pfizer Announces $10 Billion Share Repurchase, Names Read Board Chairman

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-12-12T21:11:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/pfizer-sets-10-billion-share-buyback-program-boosts-quarterly-dividend.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, authorized a new share buyback program for as much as
$10 billion as Lipitor lost about 15 percent of its market in
the first week the cholesterol pill faced generic competition.  The quarterly dividend was increased to 22 cents a share
from 20 cents, according to a statement today. The stock
repurchase plan is in addition to Pfizer’s existing program, the
New York-based company said. Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read ,
58, also was named board chairman.  Pfizer lost U.S. patent protection on its biggest seller,
the Lipitor cholesterol pill, at the end of last month. Generic
versions of the drug accounted for about 15 percent of the
Lipitor market in the week ended December 2, the first week
copies were available, according to a report today from Chris Schott, an analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The buyback “is on first thought higher than what most
people were anticipating,” said Damien Conover, an analyst at
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , in a telephone interview. “It will
be viewed as a positive by the investment community.”  Pfizer has been working to minimize losses from Lipitor by
making deals with insurers to block the use of generic versions
in exchange for lowering the price of branded Lipitor.  “This is a very complicated generic launch, the way Pfizer
is going after retaining share, this is rather unprecedented,”
said Conover. “It is probably a little too early to tell” how
well the company will do in holding off generics.  New Repurchase Plan  Under its existing program, Pfizer had repurchased $6.5
billion of shares as of November 1, and it anticipates
repurchasing between $7 billion and $9 billion this year, said
Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, in a phone interview.  Under the new repurchase program Pfizer plans to buy about
$5 billion of its stock in 2012 with the rest of the $10 billion
amount available in 2013 and beyond, the company said in its
statement.  “The dividend increase and new share repurchase program
are a testament to our continued commitment to enhancing
 shareholder value  and to our continued confidence in the
business,” Read said in a statement.  Read took over the board chairman position from George Lorch, who will become an independent director, the company said
in a separate statement. Read became CEO after Jeffrey Kindler
resigned as chief executive officer and chairman in December
2010. Lorch was named to the board post a few days later.  Pfizer shares declined less than 1 percent to $20.39 at
4:00 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  