-- 
Cohan: Mr. Corzine Goes to Washington, With No Pull

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-12-12T00:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/mr-corzine-goes-to-washington-with-no-pull-william-d-cohan.html
When it comes to shining a light on
the cozy relationships between  Wall Street  and Washington, and
how the rich and powerful get access to things the rest of us
don’t, there can never be too many juicy examples.  Last month, thanks to Bloomberg Markets magazine, we were
treated to the excellent story about how former Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson  met with a bunch of bankers and hedge
fund managers in New York during the summer of 2008 and shared
with them some of his early thinking on the futures of the
mortgage behemoths  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  Then, last week,  Jon Corzine , the former chief executive
officer of the defunct  MF Global Inc.  with a gold-plated resume
-- he was also a senior partner of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
a U.S. senator and governor of  New Jersey  -- testified before
the House Agriculture Committee about his often-successful
campaign to thwart the efforts of Washington regulators to enact
rules that he and MF Global didn’t like.  The proposed rules that Corzine helped quash would have
made the capital markets a safer place for everyone, to say
nothing of MF Global’s customers -- who are still wondering what
the firm did with $1.2 billion of their money. Bending
regulators around Wall Street’s fingers, while not illegal,
should make all Americans’ blood boil.  In late 2010, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission --
one of MF Global’s regulators -- proposed changing one of its
regulations, known as  rule 1.25 , to limit the kinds of
investments that firms like MF Global could make using their
customers’ idle funds, including risky debt of sovereign nations.
The  rule change  would also have prevented MF Global from
engaging in so-called repo transactions -- short-term secured
financings with institutional investors -- with other Wall
Street firms.  Corzine, and other futures brokers, didn’t like the
proposed rule changes because they would reduce potential profit.
Investing customer money in high-yielding, risky securities such
as  Spain ’s sovereign debt was more profitable than investing in
safer U.S. Treasury securities.  Not only did MF Global’s general counsel, Laurie Ferber,
write a  letter  to the CFTC opposing changes to rule 1.25,
Corzine also took his case to the commissioners themselves.  On July 20, 2011, Corzine said, he “took part” in a
conference call with CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  in which MF
Global executives made clear their opposition to any changes in
rule 1.25. On the call, Corzine said, he argued that the repo
transactions with other broker-dealers should be permitted
“because such transactions could be beneficial to” firms like MF
Global.  Later that same afternoon, he and Ferber called a CFTC
commissioner,  Bart Chilton , and reiterated their view that rule
1.25 should be left alone. Corzine met with Gensler in May 2010
and again in December 2010. Gensler gave a guest lecture to
Corzine’s class at  Princeton University  on Nov. 22, 2010.
(Disclosure: At Corzine’s request, I spoke to his Princeton
class a few weeks before Gensler.) Lo and behold, the CFTC
decided not to change rule 1.25.  Until earlier this month, that is -- five weeks after MF
Global filed for bankruptcy. The changes enacted to rule 1.25 --
largely barring investments of customer money in the sovereign
debt of foreign nations -- is known as the “MF Global Rule.”  Thanks to last week’s hearings, we also know now that
Corzine used his  Washington  connections to try to thwart
regulators’ efforts to get MF Global to increase its capital
after Corzine’s big bet on European sovereign debt became known.
At the beginning of August 2011, Corzine said, he “became aware”
that the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the securities
industry’s self-regulating body, wanted MF Global to increase
its capital because of Corzine’s sovereign-debt bet.  On Aug. 15, Corzine went to a meeting at the Securities and
Exchange Commission in Washington, where he tried to get the SEC
to make Finra back off the idea of forcing MF Global to raise
more capital. “We met with Michael Macchiaroli, the associate
director in the Division of Trading and Markets, and others from
the SEC, and presented our argument that the capital treatment
of [MF Global’s bet] involving European sovereign debt
securities should not be changed in the way that Finra proposed,”
Corzine testified.  But this time the lobbying didn’t work. Finra refused to
change its position about MF Global’s need to raise new capital.
Corzine, though, kept trying to get the SEC to thwart Finra. “I
thereafter made a telephone call to Mr. Macchiaroli who told me,
in substance, that there was no further appeal and that MF
Global had to comply with Finra’s direction,” Corzine testified.  “He noted, however, that other companies in similar
positions had sent letters of objection to the SEC, although he
was clear that such a letter would make no difference to Finra’s
or the SEC’s position,” Corzine said.  Despite this setback, no one was questioning Corzine’s pull
in Washington. In April 2011, he held a fundraiser for President
 Barack Obama  at his Manhattan apartment and he is one of Obama’s
biggest bundlers, having cobbled together more than $500,000
from his Wall Street friends.  Such was Corzine’s standing in the capital that when rumors
surfaced last summer that Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
might resign and return to  New York  to be with his family,
Corzine’s name was at or close to the top of the list as a
possible replacement. Indeed, as hard as it is to believe now,
on Aug. 2, when MF Global issued publicly $325 million in five-
year senior notes, it had to promise investors that the  interest
rate  paid on their bonds would be increased by 100 basis points
should Corzine leave the firm and take a job with the
administration.  You can’t make this stuff up.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 