-- 
Rajaratnam Wins Return of Passport, $2.5 Million After Starting Sentence

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-12-12T22:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/rajaratnam-wins-return-of-passport-2-5m.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the former hedge-
fund manager serving an 11-year prison sentence for insider
trading, can have his passport back, along with the title to his
$17.5 million  Manhattan  apartment and $2.5 million in cash.  Rajaratnam, 54, the Galleon Group LLC co-founder, reported
to a federal medical prison in Ayer,  Massachusetts , Dec. 5 to
begin serving his sentence. U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell
agreed with prosecutors that Rajaratnam’s assets, which secured
his $100 million bond, should be returned.  “The defendant has fulfilled all the conditions of the
appearance bond and he is currently in the custody of the Bureau
of Prisons serving his sentence,” lawyers for Rajaratnam and
the government said in an agreement endorsed by Holwell Dec. 9
and released today.  Rajaratnam was convicted in May of directing the biggest
insider-trading ring in a generation. His was the longest
sentence ever handed down for such a crime and the culmination
of a four-year nationwide probe of  insider trading . A three-
judge panel rejected his last-minute plea to remain free while
he appeals his conviction.  In addition to his prison sentence, Rajaratnam was ordered
to pay a $10 million fine and forfeit $53.8 million. He must
also pay $92.8 million in a civil case filed by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, the biggest fine assessed
against an individual in an insider-trading case, according to
the agency.  Holwell ordered the passport turned over to Rajaratnam’s
lawyers. Unless his conviction is reversed on appeal, it’s
unlikely Rajaratnam will be able to use it. U.S. passports
expire after 10 years and Rajaratnam isn’t due to be released
until 2021, according to the Bureau of Prisons website.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  