-- 
Transocean Says It Doesn’t Owe Fines for Below-Surface Spill

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-12-12T23:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/transocean-claims-it-doesn-t-owe-fines-for-sub-surface-leaks-in-bp-spill.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  said it can’t be
forced to pay federal fines or penalties for oil spilled below
the surface of the  Gulf of Mexico  in the Deepwater Horizon
incident because of an indemnity contract with  BP Plc .  Transocean asked a federal judge in New Orleans to find
that the indemnity provision in the drilling contract requires
BP to pay virtually all damages and cleanup costs. BP has argued
that Transocean’s conduct voided the agreement.  The indemnity provision doesn’t cover liabilities that
resulted from willful misconduct, the U.S. Justice Department
said last week in asking the court to delay ruling on the
indemnity provision. Transocean isn’t asking to be held harmless
for such misconduct, the company said in a court filing today.  “The drilling contract does not provide for indemnity in
the event of intentional or willful misconduct in excess of
gross negligence,” Transocean’s lawyers said. The company’s
claim for indemnity for Clean Water Act fines “arises only if
Transocean is held liable” for “underwater discharge from the
well,” the company said.  Transocean “vehemently denies” it engaged in willful
misconduct in the drilling of BP’s Macondo well, which exploded
off  Louisiana  last year, the rig owner said today. The blowout
killed 11 workers and sparked the worst offshore  oil spill  in
U.S. history.  Consolidated Lawsuits  More than 350 lawsuits representing thousands of claims by
coastal property owners and businesses for oil-spill damages are
consolidated before Barbier in New Orleans for pretrial
processing. BP and Transocean and other companies involved in
the drilling project face billions of dollars in damages claims
in these suits.  BP sued Transocean in April to recover a part of more than
$40 billion, claiming the drilling contractor shares blame for
the disaster. Transocean filed counterclaims against BP accusing
the oil company of breaching their contract by failing to defend
the rig owner and hold it harmless against all claims.  London-based BP claims Transocean’s conduct voided the
indemnity clause. The oil giant contends the drilling company
must pay its own share of any damages, which will be determined
by a trial set to begin in February.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on Transocean’s filing. Ellen
Moskowitz, a BP spokeswoman, didn’t immediately reply to a voice
message or e-mail seeking comment on the filing.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laure Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 