-- 
Regulators in U.K. Seek Automatic Sanctions on Bank Executives After RBS

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-12-12T14:58:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/rbs-made-poor-decisions-before-2008-abn-amro-takeover-fsa-report-says.html
U.K. regulators pushed for new
powers to automatically sanction senior bank executives and
increase oversight of mergers, arguing the near collapse of
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  showed financial firms must be
treated differently than other companies.  Automatic sanctions for poor decisions that lead to a bank
failure “have the advantage of not requiring expensive and
contentious legal processes,” the Financial Services Authority,
which the U.K. government plans to split up next year, said on
its  website  as part of its report on RBS. Takeovers should be
more closely regulated, according to the study, which detailed
how RBS’s purchase of Dutch bank ABN Amro Holding NV in 2007
brought the lender to the brink of collapse.  “All of this gets down to the fact that banks are
different,” FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  told journalists in
 London  today. “The consequences of bank failure are quite
different to that of a retailer or manufacturing company.”  After the acquisition, RBS reported a 24.1 billion-pound
($37 billion) loss for 2008, the largest in U.K. corporate
history, and required a 45.5 billion-pound rescue by taxpayers
-- the world’s biggest bank bailout. The FSA came under pressure
from lawmakers to publish the probe into RBS after the agency
cleared bank executives, including former chief executive
officer  Fred Goodwin , of wrongdoing.  ‘Ironies’  “Regulation is in the throes of being handed back to the
Bank of  England ,” said Simon Willis, an analyst at Daniel
Stewart Securities Plc. “One of the biggest ironies of all is
that it’s the FSA that’s done the report. Perhaps it should have
been an independent report.”  Bank mergers should be supervised to “reflect the fact
that major acquisitions by banks pose potential social risks
which are not present in the case of contested takeovers by non-
banks,” according to the report.  The report, which has been more than a year in the making,
meted out equal criticism of bank managers and FSA regulators.  RBS relied too much on short-term wholesale funding, a
weakness that was missed by the U.K. banking regulator, the FSA
said in the report. The watchdog listed seven reasons for the
bank’s failure, including uncertainties over the quality of the
lender’s assets and lack of capital.  Even after global money markets froze in 2007, Goodwin
pushed through the world’s biggest bank takeover, the 72
billion-euro purchase of Amsterdam-based ABN Amro with  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  of  Spain  and  Belgium ’s Fortis. The acquisition
saddled RBS with bad debt and depleted its cash reserves.  27,000 Jobs  Since its near failure, RBS has cut more than 27,000 jobs,
replaced Goodwin with  Stephen Hester  in 2008 and shrunk its
balance sheet by almost a trillion pounds.  The FSA “identified a risk created by the perceived
dominance of” Goodwin as CEO as early as 2003, the report said,
adding that the bank’s chief had developed a “challenging
management culture.”  “Taxpayers should never have had to rescue RBS,” Philip Hampton, the Edinburgh-based bank’s chairman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “The FSA’s views are an important
contribution to the debate on how banks should be managed and
regulated in the future.”  The FSA said its initial probe into the bank’s bailout
found that there were no codes or standards that would allow
prosecutors to show at a tribunal that bank managers breached
their duties of due diligence on the  ABN Amro  takeover.  New Standards  “The crucial issue that this raises, however, is whether
the rules are appropriate: whether the decisions and actions
which led to failure should ideally have been sanctionable, and
whether we should put in place different rules and standards,”
Turner said in the report.  Efforts in the U.S. to bring criminal cases against
directors shows it’s “very, very difficult,” said Matthew Czepliewicz, a banking analyst at  Collins Stewart  in London.  “If we’re talking about Fred Goodwin paying a certain
amount for this acquisition, that’s a judgment call and the
market and regulators knew what he was doing,” he said.  The report blamed RBS’s collapse on a lack of liquidity,
when lenders to the bank became increasingly unwilling to roll
over its funding. That, in turn, had its roots in uncertainty
about whether the bank had sufficient capital to absorb losses.  “There was insufficient focus on the core prudential
issues of capital and liquidity, and inadequate attention given
to key business risks,” according to the report.  Run on Deposits  The lack of confidence saw the bank lose a total of 19
billion pounds in deposits between August and October in 2008.  RBS’s capital ratio in 2007 would have equated to 1.97
percent, under more rigorous capital rules now in force, the
study estimates -- less than a quarter the amount now required.  The FSA also criticized RBS’s decision to finance the ABN
Amro purchase primarily though debt rather than equity.  RBS had one of the “greatest dependencies” on short-term
funding, in particular overnight funds, the FSA said. That left
it more vulnerable than peers to market stress. That was
exacerbated by the ABN Amro deal, the report said.  The FSA moved too late in April 2008 to force RBS to raise
12 billion pounds in capital, the report said, noting the
regulator’s supervision of reserves was mainly reactive. The
bank needed as much as 166 billion pounds in additional “high-
quality unencumbered liquid assets,” the FSA said.  While the FSA was applying more rigorous capital standards
from late 2007 onwards, the changes “came too late to prevent
the developing crisis,” the report said.  The FSA operated a flawed supervisory approach which failed
adequately to challenge the judgment and risk assessments of the
management of RBS, the FSA’s Turner said, noting it was done
against a backdrop of political pressure for “light touch”
regulation.  The government said in 2010 it would abolish the regulator,
handing its bank supervision powers to the  Bank of England .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  