-- 
Romanian Cabinet Seeks Fast-Track Approval of Election Law

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-12-12T12:39:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/romanian-government-seeks-confidence-vote-on-two-laws-correct-.html
Romania ’s government wants to have
fast-track approval of a law merging general and local
elections, avoiding a long debate in Parliament, Prime Minister
Emil Boc said.  The measure is one of two bills the government wants to
push through without discussion by linking them to a confidence
measure. The other would aim to making judicial appointment to
the  High Court  of Justice transparent, Boc said. The opposition
would then have the chance to file a corresponding no-confidence
vote as it seeks to topple the Cabinet.  “We want the elections to be organized at the same date
because 2012 is a tough year from an economic point of view and
we must avoid any slippage,” Boc said during a press conference
in Bucharest. “We could save about 20 million euros ($27
million) from the state’s budget by merging elections.”  Boc’s ruling coalition has a 246-vote majority in the 470-
member Parliament. It has survived six no-confidence votes since
it introduced austerity measures last year to lower the  budget
deficit  and meet pledges to the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union.  The Social Democrats and the Liberals, which form the
country’s opposition, will file a no-confidence vote and try to
oust Boc, Victor Ponta, the social democratic head said. That
vote may take place on Dec. 22, Roberta Anastase, the head of
the Parliament’s lower house, told reporters.  The government cut public wages and increased a value-added
tax in July 2010. It wants to reduce the budget gap to 1.9
percent of gross domestic product from an anticipated 4.4
percent of GDP this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  