-- 
Gingrich and Romney Exchange Attacks Focused on Their Wealth

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-12-13T05:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/romney-seeks-to-deflect-attacks-from-rivals-over-10-000-wager.html
Newt Gingrich  and  Mitt Romney 
accused each other of getting rich off the misfortunes of others
yesterday as the two vied for the upper hand in an increasingly
contentious Republican presidential campaign.  Stumping in New Hampshire where they’re competing for votes
in a Jan. 10 primary, the candidates met voters in schools,
pharmacies, diners and their workplaces. Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor, pressed to halt Gingrich’s momentum
while the former U.S. House speaker sought to capitalize on his
surge in polls three weeks before the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses start
the nomination voting.  Even as each pledged to keep the tenor of the contest
civil, Romney charged that Gingrich had sold his influence to
Freddie Mac, the government-backed mortgage company based in
 Washington . Gingrich fired back by saying Romney, co-founder of
the Boston-based private-equity fund Bain Capital LLC, made his
fortune destroying jobs.  “If Governor Romney would like to give back all the money
he’s earned bankrupting companies and laying off employees over
his years at Bain, then I would be happy to at least listen to
him,” Gingrich said in Londonderry.  He was responding to Romney’s call in a Fox News interview
for Gingrich to relinquish some $1.6 million in consulting fees
he pocketed from Freddie Mac, which Republicans routinely attack
as a major culprit in the U.S. home mortgage financial crisis.  ‘Fair Question’  “If he was there because of his political connections and
then if  Freddie Mac  fails, I think a fair question is asked: Why
did he profit as Freddie Mac failed?” Romney told reporters at
the Madison Lumber Mill in Madison.  Addressing lumber workers during his stop, Romney also
criticized Gingrich for earlier this year describing the
proposal by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  to replace
Medicare with subsidies for the elderly -- a plan seen as a
cornerstone of the Republican fiscal agenda in Congress -- as
“right-wing social engineering.”  “Speaker Gingrich was exactly wrong on that,” Romney
said, standing amid lumber-cutting machines and piles of wood
scraps. “Someone said he might hit the ground running, but not
in the same direction I would go.”  In the Fox interview, Romney mockingly rejected Gingrich’s
contention that he never lobbied for Freddie Mac and that his
work there was in his capacity as an historian.  ‘Highest Paid Historian’  “That would make him the highest paid historian in
history,” said Romney in the interview from the Chez Vachon
diner in Manchester,  New Hampshire ’s largest city.  Romney told reporters more attacks could be coming soon,
saying his campaign may begin airing negative advertisements.  “This is, after all, politics,” he said. “There’s no
whining in politics. You get in a political process and you
fight hard.”  The two sharpened their attacks as polling showed Gingrich
leading Romney in two states with primaries shortly after the
New Hampshire vote. An NBC News/ Marist poll  released yesterday
gave Gingrich a 19-percentage-point lead over Romney in  South
Carolina  and a 15-point advantage in  Florida  among likely
Republican primary voters, including those who are undecided yet
leaning toward a candidate. Romney leads in polls in New
Hampshire.  “I’m behind a little bit here so I need your help,”
Gingrich said as he campaigned in Londonderry. Later, he greeted
voters in a pharmacy in Hollis and told them: “Love to have
your help on Jan. 10.”  High-Road Candidate  Even as Gingrich returned Romney’s criticism on the money
issue, he was billing himself to New Hampshire voters as the
candidate taking the higher road. Noting his rise in the race,
Gingrich told a town hall at Insight Technology in Londonderry
that the campaign had entered a phase showing “the power of
positive ideas versus the power of negative advertising.”  “I’m the front-runner, so everybody is going to pile on,
and they’re going to try to knock me down,” Gingrich said,
adding that he was “somebody who is determined to be
positive.”  Gingrich also told voters at a town hall in Windham that he
would be releasing a letter today to his campaign staff and
surrogates directing them not to engage in attacks against his
opponents, as well as asking his supporters to withhold
contributions from any political action committee that did so.
He called on Romney to make a similar pledge.  “As I have become more of a frontrunner, the campaign has
begun for the first time to really degenerate in terms of some
of the ads,” Gingrich said.  What Voters Want  Romney also said he would refrain from saying “outrageous
things that can be used to hang” his opponents in the
Republican race. In an interview with Politico, Romney said the
party’s voters “want someone who is willing to be a responsible
leader, that brings America together as opposed to dividing
America.”  Romney wasn’t the only candidate launching broadsides
against Gingrich. In  Iowa , former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of
Pennsylvania called Gingrich’s work for Freddie Mac “not
consistent with the conservative values that we have.”  “He was someone promoting their values and promoting their
cause,” he told reporters after meeting with employees at the
Principal Financial Group in  Des Moines .  ‘Selling Access’  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  released an ad
calling Gingrich a “career politician” who got rich “selling
access.” The ad features news clips highlighting Gingrich’s
ethics troubles as speaker in the late 1990s and his work for
Freddie Mac.  A Romney adviser used Gingrich’s work for Freddie Mac,
which was taken into government conservatorship in 2008 after
its stake in subprime loans pushed it to the brink of collapse,
to question the depth of the former Georgia congressman’s
economic experience.  “Newt Gingrich comes from the world where politicians are
paid millions after they retire to influence their friends in
Washington,” said Tom Stemberg, a founder of office supply
company  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  who once persuaded Romney to help finance
the expansion of the stores. “After 30 years as a Washington
insider, Newt Gingrich has no clue how the real world economy
works.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Windham, New Hampshire at 
1890 or  jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at +1-
   llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  