-- 
Russian Economy Hampered by ‘Poor’ Business Climate, OECD Says

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-12-12T05:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/russian-economy-hampered-by-poor-business-climate-oecd-says.html
Russian  economic growth  will be
constrained in the coming years by a “poor” business
environment and energy inefficiency, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Gross domestic product will probably expand by 4.1 percent
in 2012 and 2013 after 4 percent this year, the Paris-based OECD
said in a report published today. Acting Finance Minister Anton
Siluanov expects 2011 growth of as much as 4.5 percent.  The economy “is not fully exploiting opportunities
provided by Russia’s rich endowment of natural resources and the
high skill level of its population,” the OECD said. “A glaring
and persistent handicap for the functioning of the Russian
economy is the poor business environment. This is holding  Russia 
back from becoming the modern, diversified, innovative economy
that it aspires to be.”  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who seeks a return to the
presidency next year, targets growth of 6 percent to 7 percent
to turn the economy into one of the world’s five largest. Tens
of thousands of people in Moscow and other cities protested
yesterday over claims of fraud in a Dec. 4 parliamentary vote
that reduced his party’s majority.  During Putin’s two terms as president between 2000 and
2008, he worked to centralize power and increase state ownership
of the country’s biggest companies. Buffeted by a booming global
economy, growth averaged 7 percent a year during his tenure.  Modernize the Economy  Policy makers should focus efforts to modernize the economy
on  energy efficiency  and on improving productivity across the
economy rather than on high-tech development, the OECD said.  The economy will also grow “several percentage points of
GDP” over the medium-term from entry into the  World Trade
Organization , primarily as a result of loosening its own
regulations, according to the report.  Russia should make monetary policy more transparent and
protect the budget from a tendency to spend more as revenue
rises, the OECD said.  While Russia will probably end this year with a small
federal budget  surplus , the government should move faster to
reinstate rules that protected windfall oil revenue, the report
said. The budget may return to a deficit of 1 percent of GDP
next year, followed by 1.1 percent in 2013.  The non-oil deficit, which strips out revenue and expenses
related to the oil and gas sector, has surged to 10.2 percent
GDP this year, compared with 6.5 in 2008, the report said. The
figure will edge up to 10.8 percent in 2012 before falling to
10.2 percent in 2013, it said.  “The non-oil deficit that rose during the boom and then
expanded rapidly during the crisis remains very high” and above
Russia’s medium-term target of 4.7 percent of GDP, the report
said. That “makes the fiscal position vulnerable to a sharp
reduction in the  oil price .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  