-- 
Russia’s WTO Entry May Cause Scrap Shortage, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-12-12T13:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/russia-s-wto-entry-may-cause-scrap-shortage-morgan-stanley-says.html
Russia  may export more scrap for
steelmaking to  Europe  after it joins the  World Trade
Organization  this month, resulting in a shortage at home, said
Morgan Stanley and  OAO Novolipetsk Steel. (NLMK)   The country will reduce a tax on scrap exports to 5 percent
from 15 percent over five years as part of WTO membership
requirements, said Anton Bazulev, a spokesman for the steelmaker
known as NLMK. “We expect scrap exports to increase and the
spread between lower domestic scrap prices and higher European
to narrow.”  Domestic demand for the material is set to double to about
40 million metric tons in 2018 from 18 million tons last year as
infrastructure spending drives the use of steel for
construction, Morgan Stanley analyst Dmitry Kolomytsyn said
today by phone from Moscow. Russian companies including  OAO
Severstal (SVST)  that are adding blast furnaces to turn scrap into
steel may see reduced profits from the projects as a result of
the tax change, he said.  Severstal invested $350 million in a long-products mini-
mill at Balakovo in the Volga region which is expected to start
in 2013, according to Metal Bulletin. The total cost may reach
$600 million, the Bulletin said.  Local Supplies  Producers in general may seek substitutes for scrap such as
steel shavings or cast iron scrap if prices rise, said Natalia
Ivanova, a Severstal spokeswoman. The WTO inclusion may mean
exports decline as prices at home rise, she said.  Scrap prices in central Russia were about 8,700 rubles
($276) a ton in November, while prices for exports to Europe
reached $425 a ton, according to NLMK. Russia sold about 6
million tons of ferrous scrap abroad this year, down from 7.3
million tons in 1998, the year before the tax was introduced,
according to the steelmaker.  NLMK, which now consumes about 3.5 million tons of scrap
annually, of which 3 million tons it produces itself, is also
building a mini-mill in Kaluga. The company “was lucky” to
have large scrap sources nearby, so the risks to the project are
low, Kolomytsyn said. NLMK wants scrap output to more than
double in five years compared with 2010, Bazulev said.  OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel (MMK)  is self-sufficient in scrap
and doesn’t see any risks from the WTO inclusion, the press
office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  