-- 
Billionaire Prokhorov to Challenge Putin

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-12-12T16:39:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/russian-billionaire-prokhorov-to-challenge-putin-in-presidential-election.html
Billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov plans
to challenge Prime Minister Vladimir Putin for the Russian
presidency in March elections after the biggest anti-government
demonstrations in a decade emboldened  Russia ’s opposition.  “This is the most important decision of my life,” the
owner of the New Jersey Nets basketball team told reporters in
Moscow today.  Prokhorov, 46, Russia’s third-richest man with a fortune
Forbes magazine estimated at $18 billion, said that he’ll seek
to build support from the grassroots level and that he opposes
“revolution” and “populism.” He quit as leader of the Right
Cause party on Sept. 15, accusing President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s
administration of blocking the group’s preparations for
parliamentary elections in December.  That Dec. 4 vote, in which Putin and Medvedev’s United
Russia party retained its majority, was neither free nor fair,
observers from the U.S. and  Europe  said. Thousands of Russians
took to the streets in the week since the contest to protest the
results after reports of ballot-stuffing.  An opposition crowd of 25,000 people rallied in central
Moscow on Dec. 10, according to police, in the city’s largest
anti-government protest since Putin first became president in
2000. A same-sized demonstration occupied Red Square today in
support of United Russia, authorities said.  Stocks, Ruble  Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks fell 2.4
percent at 6:05 p.m. in Moscow, extending last week’s 7.3
percent decline, the biggest in almost three months. The ruble
weakened for an eighth-straight day against the dollar, falling
0.4 percent to 31.5808.  Prokhorov may have the backing of ousted Finance Minister
 Alexei Kudrin , who told the Vedomosti newspaper in an interview
published today that he supports the creation of a new right-of-
center party, a topic he has discussed with Prokhorov. Kudrin
was the second longest-serving minister in the government when
he resigned Sept. 26, citing disagreements with Medvedev over
spending policy.  Prokhorov is seeking to be an “integrator” who can unite
Russia’s liberal opposition, the billionaire told the Interfax
news service in an interview after his news conference.  Mass  Liberal Party   The statements by Kudrin and Prokhorov today reflect the
growing need for a “right-liberal” party, said  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a sociologist who studies the country’s elite
at the Russian Academy of Sciences and has been a member of the
ruling party since 2009.  “I don’t rule out that Putin will move closer to the
right,” she said. “Many people will welcome creating such a
party and will join under Kudrin’s banner. People in the right
flank have longed for unification.”  Russia needs a new party to accommodate “annoyed” city
residents,  Vladislav Surkov , Medvedev’s first deputy chief of
staff, said of the protests in an interview posted on the Ekho
Moskvy radio station’s website on Dec. 6.  Prokhorov in June became head of the Right Cause party,
quitting three months later after falling out with the Kremlin
on how the party should develop. He then said that his one task
would be to oust Surkov.  People including those who protested on Dec. 10 won’t
believe that Kudrin and Prokhorov can present an alternative to
 United Russia ,  Mikhail Kasyanov , a former prime minister under
Putin who now opposes the government, said in an interview
today.  ‘Manipulation’ Concern  Kasyanov’s Parnas party was barred from taking part in the
Dec. 4 elections because it had violated federal rules,
including the submission of names of registered members who are
deceased, the Justice Ministry said then. Kasyanov was also
disqualified from running in the 2008 presidential election.  “You could do that before the Duma elections so that
people would vote for the Right Cause in protest rather than for
the Communists,” Kasyanov said. “But the situation is such now
that people do not want to take part in manipulation.”  The initiative may be a ploy to benefit Putin by
legitimizing the March vote through the appearance of genuine
competition, said  Sergei Markov , a former United Russia lawmaker
who heads the Institute of Political Studies in Moscow.  “There are two possibilities here, either it’s something
agreed with Putin to bolster the legitimacy of the presidential
elections after the recent protests or Prokhorov could be
jumping on the bandwagon of the protests,” Markov said by phone
in Moscow. “Prokhorov is a glamorous oligarch and he’s got
plenty of money to spend on promoting himself.”  Vote Fraud Investigation  Medvedev yesterday ordered an investigation into the
allegations of fraud in the parliamentary poll as the swelling
resentment threatened to weaken Putin’s presidential bid.  Putin served the maximum two consecutive terms from 2000 to
2008, when he stepped aside in favor of his protégé Medvedev.
Putin said in September that he’d appoint Medvedev prime
minister if he wins in March.  Parliament lengthened the presidential term to six years
from four years after Medvedev came to office, giving Putin the
opportunity to prolong his stay in power to a quarter century.  Prokhorov said both Putin and Medvedev declined to meet
with him to discuss his presidential bid and that he’ll spend 10
percent of his campaign criticizing Putin and the rest laying
out his proposals. He also said he isn’t afraid of suffering the
fate of jailed former Yukos Oil Co. billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky .  Khodorkovsky was Russia’s richest man when he was arrested
at gunpoint on the tarmac of a Siberian airport in October 2003.
He was sentenced to a total of 13 years in two separate
convictions for fraud,  tax evasion  and oil embezzlement as Yukos
was dismantled and sold at auction to cover more than $30
billion in back taxes. Khodorkovsky, who denies any guilt, says
he was targeted by Putin for financing opposition parties.  ‘Putin Project’  Prokhorov’s presidential run is “a special Putin project
that aims to simulate a Mikhail Khodorkovsky in the election”
and give the illusion of democracy, said Alexei Mukhin, head of
the Moscow-based Center for Political Information.  Still, Putin is determined to garner the minimum 50 percent
of the vote he needs to avoid a runoff, Mukhin said.  “ Vladimir Putin  is the dominant figure, he’ll win the
presidency for sure, but making it only on the second round
would be a huge setback for him,” Mukhin said. “He’ll do
everything to avoid that.”  ‘Game-Changer’  Prokhorov said he’ll need about a month to file all the
paperwork and collect the 2 million signatures needed to be
included on the ballot as an independent.  His entry may be a “game-changer” if he manages to pass
those hurdles and be certified by the Central Elections
Committee, which is controlled by Putin, said Lilit Gevorgyan, a
London-based analyst at IHS Global Insight.  “He could certainly act as a channel to vent out the
frustration of many young professional voters who can’t bring
themselves to vote for Communists or nationalists for the sake
of not voting for Putin,” said Gevorgyan.  “It could even
result in a runoff election.”  Stanislav Govorukhin, the film director Putin tapped to
lead his presidential campaign, declined to comment on
Prokhorov’s candidacy or Putin’s strategy for addressing the
protesters, when Bloomberg reached him by phone.  Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s spokesman, said the premier is aware
of Prokhorov’s political intentions, adding that it’s every
Russian’s right to run for president, news services including
state-run RIA Novosti reported.  “Prokhorov’s task is to help Putin get elected,” said
 Boris Nemtsov , a former deputy prime minister under the late
President  Boris Yeltsin . “A billionaire would never have taken
such a risk if he hadn’t had an agreement with Putin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  