-- 
Russia Raises GDP Estimate as Growth Reaches Fastest Since 2010

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-12-12T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/russia-raises-gdp-estimate-as-growth-reaches-fastest-since-2010.html
Russia ’s economy grew at the fastest
pace in more than a year in the third quarter as agricultural
output, construction and retail sales surged.  Gross domestic product  expanded  4.8 percent in the July-
September period from a year earlier, the fastest pace since the
second quarter of 2010, after increasing 3.4 percent in the
previous three months, the Moscow-based Federal Statistics
Service said today in an e-mailed statement. That was in line
with the first estimate by the service last month.  The world’s largest energy exporter is seeking to shield
its economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis as Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  prepares to contest a presidential election in March.
Agricultural output jumped 14.6 percent from last year when the
worst drought in half a century ravaged Russia’s harvest, the
service said. Growth may reach 4.5 percent this year after
retail sales rose and import growth slowed more than expected,
Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said.  “We’ve slightly lifted the GDP forecast for this year to
4.2 percent” from 4.1 percent, Klepach told reporters today in
Moscow. “Based on how the statistics service started revising
retail sales and based on how the investment data may be
revised, a reading of 4.5 percent or slightly higher is fairly
likely.”  Construction rose 6.9 percent in the third-quarter from the
same period of 2010 after a 0.1 percent rise in the second
quarter, the service said. Retail sales jumped 5.4 percent after
a 2.3 percent rise.  New Forecast  The Economy Ministry has prepared a new “working
forecast” to take into account revisions by the statistics
service through the first nine months of this year, Klepach
said. The ministry still predicts 3.7 percent growth next year
after the  International Monetary Fund  said last week there were
“significant downside risks” to the Washington-based lender’s
3.5 percent forecast.  Growth may be buoyed in the final months of the year as
 import growth  slows, leading to a wider-than-expected  trade
surplus , Klepach said.  “Our export forecast was slightly lowered while our import
forecast was lowered more significantly,” he said. “The
slowdown in import growth was more intensive than we’d
expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  