-- 
Safmarine Hasn’t Shipped Cocoa From Ghana Amid Fee Dispute

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-12-12T12:30:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/safmarine-hasn-t-shipped-cocoa-from-ghana-amid-fee-dispute-1-.html
Safmarine Container Lines NV, a
Belgian shipping company, hasn’t shipped any cocoa from  Ghana ,
the world’s second-largest producer of the beans, in the past
week because of a dispute about who is responsible to pay a fee
to the Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority.  Safmarine hasn’t made container shipments from Ghana and
“we do not know when shipments will resume,” Didier Willemse,
head of commodity sales at Safmarine, said by phone on Dec. 9
from Antwerp. A person who answered the phone at the Ghana Ports
and Harbours Authority’s office in Tema said management was in a
meeting and no one was available to comment.  “Both sides are working on a resolution,” Philip Sigley,
chief executive officer of the Federation of Cocoa Commerce Ltd.
in  London , said by phone today, referring to the port authority
and shippers. “Some lines are shipping cocoa.”  Output in Ghana will be 850,000 to 900,000 metric tons this
season, down from 1.024 million tons a year earlier, according
to Ecobank Transnational Inc., a Lome, Togo-based bank. The
cocoa season runs from Oct. 1 to Sept. 30.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S’s Maersk Line hasn’t shipped cocoa
from Ghana “lately,” Kenni Simon Skotte, general manager for
Europe-West Africa trade, said in an e-mail last week in
response to questions by Bloomberg News. “It is not known to us
at this stage when cocoa shipments will resume on Maersk Line.”  ‘Commercial Decision’  “It is simply a commercial decision by  Maersk Line  to not
currently book and load cocoa beans ex Ghana,” Sonny Dahl,
director of West Africa services for Copenhagen-based Maersk,
said by e-mail today. A.P. Moeller-Maersk is the world’s biggest
container shipping company.  Cocoa prices have dropped 36 percent this year after
production exceeded demand by 341,000 tons for the 2010-11
season, according to the International Cocoa Organization.  Cocoa for March delivery fell 3.1 percent to 1,296 pounds
($2,025) a ton by 12:06 p.m. on NYSE Liffe in London, the lowest
price since November 2008. Cocoa for March delivery retreated
3.3 percent to $1,998 a ton on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 