-- 
Samsung, Apple, Wi-Lan, Cordon Bleu: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-12-12T12:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/samsung-motorola-cordon-bleu-discovery-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  will start
selling its rival to Apple Inc.’s iPad 2 in Australian stores
before Christmas after the country’s highest court denied the
U.S. company’s bid to maintain a ban on Samsung Galaxy tablets.  Chief Justice Robert French, on behalf of the three-judge
High Court panel, said Dec. 9 that Apple failed to persuade them
that it could win on appeal and denied the company a hearing. He
reinstated an appeals court judgment lifting the ban on the
Galaxy 10.1 tablets in Australia.  The ruling ends Apple’s four-month effort to keep the
iPad’s biggest rival out of Australia on claims it infringes
patents related to touch-screen technology. Apple and Samsung,
the world’s biggest makers of smartphones and tablet computers,
have sued each other on four continents since the Cupertino,
California-based company accused the South Korean electronics
maker in April of “slavishly copying” its products.  “While the win in  Australia  won’t give a big boost to
Samsung’s revenue, it should be seen as symbolic,” Choi Do
Yeon, an analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul 
said in a phone interview. “Samsung suffered a blow to its
image from earlier losses, but now they’re recovering.”  Samsung’s lawyer Katrina Howard said last week, before a
High Court judge extended the ban, that it was “critical” for
the company to start sales before Christmas.  Apple and Samsung have filed at least 30 lawsuits against
each other, according to the Suwon, South Korea-based company.  On Dec. 8, Samsung failed to win an order from a Paris
court to block Apple from selling its newest smartphone iPhone
4S in  France . The maker of iMac computers also said it will
appeal a U.S. judge’s refusal to block Samsung’s 4G smartphone
and Galaxy Tab 10.1 computer.  “Apple and Samsung are fighting under different
circumstances in so many different countries,” said  James Song ,
an analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in Seoul. “With Samsung
beginning to win some cases, the two companies may be getting
closer to a settlement.”  In Sydney, Apple’s lawyer, Stephen Burley, argued Dec. 9
that the appeal court made a mistake in overturning the ban and
that Samsung will “visit harm on Apple” by selling the device.  “You got your relief by the skin of your teeth,” French
told Burley, referring to the original judge’s ruling that
granted the injunction against the Galaxy tablet.  Extending the ban in Australia “would effectively
determine the outcome” of a trial over the patents because by
the time that’s concluded the Galaxy 10.1 will be obsolete,
French said.  Steve Park, an Apple spokesman in Seoul, repeated the
company’s statement on the dispute that “blatant copying is
wrong and we need to protect Apple’s  intellectual property  when
companies steal our ideas.”  Samsung is the second-largest component supplier for Apple.
The company gets about 7.6 percent of its total revenue from
selling memory chips, displays and other components for the
iPhone and iPad, according to Bloomberg data.  A trial date on Apple’s patent claims in Australia hasn’t
been set yet. Samsung’s countersuit, claiming Apple phones and
tablets infringe its patents on 3G wireless transmission is
scheduled for March in Sydney.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
NSD1243/2011, Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  Motorola Mobility Wins German Patent Ruling Against Apple  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  won a German patent ruling
against Apple Inc. Dec. 9 that may be used to block iPad and
iPhone sales in a dispute over technology used in the products.  The court in Mannheim found Apple infringed one of Motorola
Mobility’s cellular-communications patents, granting an
injunction and declaring Apple, in principle, liable for
damages.  “We’re going to appeal the court’s ruling right away,”
said Alan Hely, a London spokesman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, in an e-mail. “Holiday shoppers in  Germany  should
have no problem finding the iPad or iPhone they want.”  There are several patent cases pending in Mannheim between
Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility and Apple. The
iPad maker said at a hearing in a related case on Nov. 18 that
it may face as much as 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in lost
sales if the court rules in favor of Motorola Mobility.  Motorola Mobility has “been negotiating with Apple and
offering them reasonable licensing terms and conditions since
2007, and will continue our efforts to resolve our global patent
dispute as soon as practicable,” General Counsel Scott Offer
said in an e-mailed statement.  Motorola Mobility can enforce last week’s decision during
an appeal only if it posts a bond of 100 million euros,
according to the ruling. That figure usually reflects the
potential damage the court thinks enforcing a ruling could cause
to the loser. It can take several weeks to enforce a patent
verdict and parties rarely enforce rulings while an appeal is
pending.  The decision was reported Dec. 9 by Florian Mueller on his
patent blog.  Wi-Lan Adds 1,400 Patents and Pending Applications to Arsenal  Wi-Lan Inc. (WIN) , the Canadian patent-licensing firm that’s
filed 17 patent-infringement cases in the U.S. since 2007, said
it has acquired a portfolio of more than 1,400 patents and
pending applications.  According to a statement from the Ottawa-based company, the
new IP is related to digital television and video displays. Wi-
Lan said it paid $8 million for the patents.  The company declined to identify the seller, saying only
that it was an “international consumer electronics
manufacturer.”  In its most recent case, Wi-Lan sued  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
 Dell Inc. (DELL) , Apple Inc. and others for infringing two patents
related to wireless technology. That case was filed in federal
court in the Eastern District of  Texas , a popular venue for
patent cases because of a belief that juries in that district
are more sympathetic to patent owners. Wi-Lan has filed 11
patent infringement cases in that district, according to
Bloomberg data.  The most recent case is Wi-Lan Inc., v. Apple Inc., 6:11-
cv-00453-LED, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  No Trademark Registration for Cooking School, IP Office Says  Le Cordon Bleu, the French cooking school, had its
application to register its name as a trademark rejected by the
Intellectual Property Office in  New Zealand , Business Day New
Zealand  reported .  The assistant commissioner of trademarks said the phrase
had no distinctive character other than representing high
quality food and it wouldn’t be fair to lock up the phrase so
others couldn’t use it for their products, according to the
newspaper.  In New Zealand, the phrase is commonly associated with a
dish of chicken stuffed with cheese and ham, according to
Business Day New Zealand.  The director of the cooking school told Business Day New
Zealand that the Intellectual Property Office’s decision was
“completely irrelevant” because existing international
trademarks already barred others’ use of the school’s logo and
branding.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google’s YouTube Buys RightsFlow Copyright Management Company  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s video-sharing YouTube unit acquired
RightsFlow, a copyright management company, according to a Dec.
9  posting on the YouTube blog .  In February the  Mountain View , California-based company
signed an agreement with  New York ’s  RightsFlow  for assistance in
music rights management.  In a joint company statement issued at that time,
RightsFlow was described as a technology-enabled licensing and
royalty service provider that specialized in obtaining licenses
and limited download rights.  YouTube’s blog posting said that the company has “already
invested tens of millions of dollars in content management
technology.”  Terms of the transaction weren’t disclosed in the blog
posting.  German Law Firm Auctioning Off Infringement Settlements  Urmann & Collegen , a German law firm involved in  copyright
enforcement , has started an auction to sell unpaid settlements
in a file-sharing case, the TorrentFreak anti-copyright website
 reported .  The Regensburg, Germany-based firm has 70,000 unpaid
settlement demands related to alleged infringement of adult
content and is selling them to the highest bidder, according to
TorrentFreak.  The supposed debt adds up to about 90 million euros ($120
million), TorrentFreak reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Discovery Accused of Misappropriating Programming Concept  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  was sued by a  Los Angeles 
production company over the network’s “ All-American Muslim ”
program.  The program, which airs on Discovery’s TLC channel, is a
reality show following the lives of five Muslim families living
in Dearborn,  Michigan .  According to the complaint filed Nov. 30 in state court on
Los Angeles,  Visionaire Media Inc.  is a company that specialized
in programming “seeking to bridge the divide and promote
understanding between Americans and Muslims.”  At a series of meetings beginning in January 2011,
officials of Visionaire began meeting with Discovery to discuss
a potential new product focused on Muslims in America.
Visionaire said that during these meetings it was told that if
Discovery liked and used the project, it would hire and pay
Visionaire and give it producer credit.  Visionaire said it pitched to Discovery the idea of a
reality show based on Dearborn Muslim families and, from January
through April of this year “expended considerable time, energy,
resources and money” to help get the project off the ground,
including meeting with various Michigan Muslim families.  In April one of the Visionaire officials left the company
and, according to the complaint, began working with Discovery on
the project. Visionaire said it discovered this in June, and in
July learned that the Discovery program was to be called “All-
American Muslim.”  It claims that Discovery is making use of proprietary
information without Visionaire’s consent or compensation. The
company asked the court for money damages, including extra
damages intended to punish Discovery for its actions, and for a
screen credit and “a reasonable royalty” from the “All-
American Muslim” program, together with an award of litigation
costs.  Discovery didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Visionaire is represented by  Miles J. Feldman ,  Sonia Y. Lee 
and  Randall Ivor-Smith  of  Raines Feldman LLP  of Beverly Hills.  The case is Visionaire Media Inc., v. Discovery
Communications Inc., BC474431,  California  Superior Court (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 