-- 
Sandusky Sex-Abuse Evidence Seen as Forcing Plea Bargain Before Any Trial

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-12-12T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/sandusky-sex-abuse-evidence-seen-as-forcing-plea-bargain-before-any-trial.html
The evidence prosecutors have laid
out against former  Pennsylvania  State University assistant
football coach Jerry Sandusky, who is charged with sexually
abusing 10 boys, may make a plea bargain more probable than a
trial, according to lawyers who have followed the case.  The testimony of multiple victims telling similar stories
of abuse may force a deal, said Lisa Friel, former chief of the
sex crimes unit in the Manhattan district attorney’s office.
Pennsylvania prosecutors are set to present much of their case
against Sandusky tomorrow when he appears for a preliminary
hearing in Bellefonte. Some or all of Sandusky’s accusers will
testify at the hearing, according to lawyers in the case.  “Sandusky might try to cut his losses and work out some
deal that potentially gets him out of prison while he’s still
alive,” said Friel, who spent almost three decades in the
D.A.’s office. Such a deal may also be appealing to the state as
it would avoid the cost of a trial and further publicity for the
alleged victims. Sandusky, 67, has denied any wrongdoing.  He was charged Nov. 5 with 40 counts related to the alleged
molestation of eight boys from 1994 to 2009. He was rearrested
last week and charged with additional crimes after two new
accusers came forward with allegations of abuse occurring in the
same period. Of all the counts against him, nine are for
involuntary deviate sexual intercourse, according to court
documents.  House Arrest  Sandusky posted bail and is under house arrest until the
hearing. His attorney, Joseph Amendola, said his client isn’t
considering a plea bargain.  “We are staying the course and proceeding with the
preparation of Jerry’s defense,” Amendola said in an e-mail.  Wes Oliver , an associate law professor at Widener Law
School’s Harrisburg campus, said Sandusky’s best chance is to
cast enough doubt on enough witnesses to force the prosecution
to consider a plea deal.  “They’re posturing right now that they’re preparing for
trial, but my guess is that they’re looking for a plea,” Oliver
said of Sandusky’s defense.  The Sandusky case has garnered worldwide attention because
of his ties to Penn State and legendary football coach  Joe Paterno . The case has led to the firings of Paterno and
university president Graham Spanier amid criticism that they
didn’t do enough to stop Sandusky.  Paterno, Spanier  Paterno and Spanier weren’t charged with any criminal
wrongdoing. Two other Penn State officials, athletic director
Timothy Curley and former vice president  Gary Schultz , were
charged with perjury and failing to report allegations of child
sex abuse against Sandusky. They’re scheduled to appear in court
later this week.  Sandusky might as well contest the charges because his age
puts him in a position where any plea deal would amount to a
life sentence, said Jack McMahon, a former prosecutor in the
Philadelphia district attorney’s office.  “What has he got to lose?” McMahon, who spent 12 years in
the district attorney’s office, said in a phone interview. “To
me it takes a lot of choices out of it.”  Sandusky also deserves his day in court, McMahon said.  “Somewhere along the line we’ve lost the concept that
Sandusky is innocent until proven guilty,” he said. “It just
seems extraordinarily unfair that he has been put into the
position of a demon without any judicial finding at all. It’s
un-American.”  Portrayed Sandusky  Prosecutors have portrayed Sandusky as a serial child
molester who used a charity he founded for needy children to
recruit his victims, befriending them and “grooming” them with
gifts, trips to  Penn State  football games and money prior to the
molestation.  The incidents allegedly took place in the basement of
Sandusky’s home, in hotels and in locker rooms on Penn State’s
campus.  One accuser, identified as Victim 9, testified that
Sandusky assaulted him as a child on numerous occasions in a
basement bedroom. Sandusky allegedly attempted to engage in anal
penetration of the victim on at least 16 occasions, according to
a report by a grand jury convened to investigate the matter. The
victim, who met Sandusky in 2004 when he was about 11 or 12
years old, testified that on at least one occasion he screamed
for help knowing that Sandusky’s wife was upstairs, and no one
came, according to the report.  Dorothy Sandusky said in a statement last week that the
allegations against her husband are false.  Eyewitness Account  A key element of the prosecution’s case is an eyewitness
account of a late-night assault that allegedly occurred in March
2002 in the locker room of the Lasch Football Building on the
University Park campus. Penn State assistant football coach  Mike McQueary , then a graduate assistant, testified to the grand jury
that he saw the former coach having anal sex with a boy in the
shower at the football team’s headquarters.  McMahon, the former Philadelphia prosecutor, said he sees
at least one difficulty for prosecutors in obtaining a
conviction Sandusky. McQueary’s testimony could become a hurdle
because it isn’t believable that he witnessed something as
shocking as the anal rape of a child and did nothing to
intervene, said the lawyer.  McMahon, now a defense attorney, represents Kermit Gosnell,
a West Philadelphia doctor accused in January of performing
illegal late-term abortions.  “It’s hard for me to imagine that he saw anal rape and did
nothing,” McMahon said. “It’s more consistent that he saw
inappropriate behavior and that’s why he didn’t interrupt.”  Consistent With Testimony  Oliver said the gist of what McQueary claims he saw is
consistent with the testimony from alleged victims.
Inconsistencies in McQueary’s testimony may be more of an issue
in the perjury case against Schultz and Curley, where precision
in language is important, Oliver said.  Pennsylvania is one of only two states, along with
 Connecticut , where a preliminary hearing operates more like a
trial, as prosecutors must present enough evidence to show there
is probable cause that the crimes occurred.  In both states, grand jury findings aren’t presumed to be
conclusive and a judge has to determine whether the case should
be held for trial, Oliver said. Prosecutors in these two states
also don’t have the benefit of using a grand jury as a backstop
for an indictment should a judge find there is insufficient
evidence for trial.  “In Pennsylvania and Connecticut the prosecution is less
willing to risk an incomplete case at the preliminary hearing,”
Oliver said. “You have to hear testimony related to all
victims.”  ‘Get a Shot’  Sandusky’s lawyer will probably use the hearing as his
first chance to “get a shot at” victims and find holes in
their stories, said  Tariq El-Shabazz , a Philadelphia defense
attorney.  “Defense attorneys use this to poke holes, to find out if
you have eight victims giving a similar story because they were
prompted by the same detective,” El-Shabazz said in a phone
interview. “You get situations where people are mimicking what
the sex crimes officers are asking them.”  Sandusky’s lawyer could also use the hearing to get early
discovery, or evidence, on each victim, Friel said.  The prosecution must “create consistencies between what
gets said at the preliminary hearing and what is said at
trial,” Friel said. “Human beings never tell a story the same
way twice and that’s the biggest risk for the prosecution.”  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky, MJ-
49201-cr-0000636-2011, Magisterial District Court 49-2-01,
Centre County ( State College ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  