-- 
Sarkozy Says French Loss of AAA Credit Rating Wouldn’t Be ‘Insurmountable’

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-12-12T13:19:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/sarkozy-says-french-loss-of-aaa-credit-rating-wouldn-t-be-insurmountable-.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said that
the loss of France’s top credit rating wouldn’t be an
“insurmountable” economic difficulty, according to an
interview published in  Le Monde  newspaper.  If the rating companies “pull it, we’ll face the situation
coolly and calmly,” Sarkozy was quoted as saying by the
newspaper. “It would be an additional difficulty but it’s not
insurmountable. What is important is the credibility of our
economic policy and our strategy of reducing spending.”  Moody’s Investors Service said today it will review the
ratings of all European Union countries after a summit last week
Brussels failed to produce “decisive policy measures” to end
the region’s debt turmoil.  Standard & Poor’s  placed the ratings
of 15 euro nations, including AAA rated  France  and Germany, on
review for possible downgrade on Dec. 5 pending an assessment of
the summit.  George Magnus , senior economic adviser at UBS AG, said he
expects one of Europe’s AAA rated countries to lose its top
rating. “It’s inevitable,” Magnus said in a interview with
Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television in  London  today. “It’s
just a question of when S&P or the other rating agencies decide
to pull the trigger.”  Of the five euro zone countries with the top debt rating,
France may be the most vulnerable. Its 10-year notes traded at
3.30 percent at 1:55 p.m. in Paris, higher than the other four,
and 121 basis points above similarly dated German debt.  Credit-default swaps on France climbed 13 basis points to
222 basis points today, while those on  Germany  rose half a point
to 99.5 basis points.  Avoiding a ‘Depression’  In the Le Monde interview, Sarkozy said that actions
announced by the  European Central Bank  last week to support
banks will help keep credit flowing and avoid a “depression.”
The ECB plan should also help ease tensions in sovereign debt
markets, Sarkozy said.  “I’m confident that the ECB, in the future, will set the
right strength of intervention,” he said.  Sarkozy said “not a cent” of state support will be needed
by French banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  