-- 
Dubai Shares Retreat Most in Week on Europe Debt Concern; Emaar Declines

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-12-12T13:07:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/saudi-arabia-shares-lead-persian-gulf-drop-italy-bond-sales-oil-declines.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index
dropped the most in almost a week, leading a decline in Persian
Gulf shares, as oil fell and European stocks retreated amid
concern about the region’s debt crisis.  Emaar Properties PJSC, (EMAAR)  builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, lost 2.8 percent.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker known as Sabic, fell the
most in three weeks. Dubai’s DFM General Index dropped 0.6
percent, the most since Dec. 6, to 1,388.19 at the 2 p.m. close.
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  retreated 0.2 percent
while the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  weakened 0.3 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.6 percent as Moody’s
Investors Service said it will review the credit ratings of
countries in the region following last week’s debt summit. The
yield on Italy’s two-year note climbed 29 basis points after the
government 7 billion euros ($9.3 billion) in one-year bills
after Dubai’s market closed. France plans to raise 6.5 billion
euros in short-term debt.  “Pressure on Italian yields around today’s auction shows
that the situation is still far from fixed in  Europe  despite
last week’s discussions,” said Ahmed Talhaoui, head of asset
management at Abu Dhabi-based Royal Capital. “This means there
is still a lot of risk aversion in the region.”  Italian borrowing costs declined from the last auction a
month ago after Prime Minister Mario Monti’s government approved
a 30 billion-euro emergency economic plan.  Oil Declines  Crude for January delivery fell as much as 1.5 percent to
$97.89 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Gulf Arab oil exporters including Saudi Arabia and the
U.A.E. supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Emaar had the steepest drop since Dec. 6 to 2.78 dirhams.
Sabic lost 1.8 percent, the most since Nov. 21, to 95.50 riyals.  Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  rose for the eighth day, its longest
winning streak since March last year, gaining 1 percent to
5,663.86. The  gauge (KWSEIDX) , down 16 percent so far this year, is valued
at about 1.6 times net assets, or book value. That compares with
1.8 times for Saudi Arabia’s measure and 2.6 times for the Dow
Jones Industrial Average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “With the underperformance of local equities during the
last six months, we saw local institutional buying in leading
stocks at the current lower levels owing to attractive
valuations,” said Kanaga Sundar, head of research at Gulf
Baader Capital Markets Co. in Muscat.  Kuwait’s gauge decreased 0.3 percent and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM) 
dropped 0.1 percent. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  slid less
than 0.1 percent while Bahrain’s measure was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  