-- 
AT&T, HSBC-MF Global, BP, Sabre, Apple, AMR in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-12-12T11:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/hsbc-mf-global-at-t-sabre-apple-amr-corp-in-court-news.html
AT&T Inc.’s plan to buy  T-Mobile USA
Inc. (DTE)  was placed in further jeopardy after a federal judge agreed
to consider a request by the U.S. to postpone or dismiss its
lawsuit seeking to block the deal.  Lawyers for AT&T and T-Mobile, saying the government’s suit
against them had turned into their best hope to complete the
transaction, urged U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle in
 Washington  to keep the case on track for a Feb. 13 trial. The
U.S. argued the case may be moot after AT&T withdrew its merger
application at the Federal Communications Commission.  A decision to dismiss or delay the Justice Department’s
case would put the deal all but out of reach for AT&T. The
company’s strategy for regulatory approval rests on winning a
favorable court decision it could use at the FCC to argue that
the transaction isn’t anticompetitive. Without such a ruling,
AT&T has no chance of getting the deal done, T-Mobile’s lawyer,
George Cary, told Huvelle at a hearing Dec. 9  “If this case doesn’t go ahead, then the deal is over,”
he said.  Huvelle, who scheduled a hearing for Dec. 15 on the
government’s request, said she was concerned that without an FCC
application in process it might be impossible to meet the
deadline for the deal and the trial would be a waste of time.  “We don’t have any confidence that we are spending all
this time and effort and the taxpayers’ money and that we’re not
being spun,” Huvelle said. “The landscape has changed,” she
said, pressing AT&T’s lawyers on whether completing the purchase
by the contractual deadline of Sept. 20 is still realistic.  AT&T’s lawyer,  Mark Hansen , told Huvelle that the company
“wants its day in court.” AT&T would have to pay T-Mobile
about $3 billion, as well as spectrum and other services worth
about another $4 billion, according to analysts, if the
transaction doesn’t close by Sept. 20.  Justice Department lawyer  Joseph Wayland  said the
government will seek to put its suit on hold or withdraw it,
while reserving the right to refile, because AT&T pulled back
its FCC merger application. FCC approval is required to complete
the transaction, he said. The fact that AT&T had an application
before the FCC was among the reasons the department sued to
block the deal in August, Wayland said.  Huvelle ordered the government to file its briefs by
tomorrow.  “By saying they will file to dismiss, the Justice
Department is calling AT&T’s bluff,” said Andrew Gavil, an
antitrust professor at Howard University School of Law in
Washington. “They’re saying ‘You cannot maneuver us into
litigation with you by withdrawing your application from the
FCC.’”  The government’s case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 1:11-cv-01560;
Sprint’s case is  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01600;
and Cellular South’s case is Cellular South Inc. v. AT&T Inc.,
1:11-cv-01690, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  For more, click here.  New Suits  HSBC Sues MF Global Trustee Over $850,000 Worth of Gold  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  sued the MF Global Inc. brokerage trustee
to establish whether he or another person is the rightful owner
of gold bars worth about $850,000 and silver bars underlying
contracts between the brokerage and a client.  Five gold bars and 15 silver bars underlie eight Comex
contracts between the brokerage and client Jason Fane of Ithaca,
 New York , London-based HSBC said in a court filing Dec. 8. Both
parties have asserted claims to the bars, creating  difficulties
for HSBC, which is storing them, the bank said, asking a judge
to decide who the rightful owner is.  “HSBC has received conflicting instructions regarding
ownership and disposition of the property,” it said.
“Accordingly, HSBC is exposed to multiple liabilities with
respect to the disposition of the properties.”  Bullion is selling for about $1,717 an ounce on the Comex
in New York, up about 21 percent this year, as investors bought
the metal to protect their wealth from  Europe ’s escalating debt
crisis, and reached a record $1,923.70 in September. Treasuries
returned 9.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  “These bars are mine,” Fane said in an e-mail Dec. 9.
“We had a letter from HSBC that they were on the loading dock
to be shipped to our warehouse contractor when there was some
action taken by a third party to stop or delay shipment.”  The trustee expects this “relatively minor and not unusual
dispute” to be successfully resolved, said Giddens spokesman
 Kent Jarrell  in an e-mail.  Fane wrote HSBC after the bankruptcy, asking the bank to
transfer the bars to his account at Brink’s, according to a copy
of his letter filed in court. The trustee wrote HSBC saying the
gold and silver was “customer property,” and the bank
shouldn’t turn it over to Fane, HSBC said in the filing. Brink’s
provides vaults and other services for the safekeeping of
valuables.  The judge handling the bankruptcy said Dec. 9 he would deal
in January with issues about distributing physical goods, such
as gold and silver bars, after lawyers for some customers said
they couldn’t get their share of the payouts because bars can’t
be broken into pieces.  Kent Jarrell, a spokesman for trustee James Giddens, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the dispute. An e-mail
to Fane wasn’t returned.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion. Jon
Corzine, the former co-chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Mexican States, Alabama Cities Can’t Bring Some BP Claims  Mexican states and Alabama cities that a federal judge
deemed too far removed from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill to
have been physically harmed by it had some of their claims
against  BP Plc  dismissed.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans also threw
out state law claims by six Louisiana parishes seeking penalties
over wildlife killed or injured by the spill. He said the
parishes, or counties, can still sue BP and other spill
companies under U.S. law to recover wildlife losses, spill
damages and removal costs.  “The Mexican states have failed to demonstrate that
recovery is authorized by a treaty or executive agreement”
between the U.S. and Mexico, Barbier said in the Dec. 9 ruling.
The coastal states of Tamaulipas, Quintana Roo and Veracruz must
prove that a “proprietary interest” was physically harmed by
the drifting oil in order to sue BP for negligence, he said.  Barbier threw out claims by four inland Alabama cities that
sued BP and other companies involved in the spill for physical
damages and economic losses.  “The court also takes notice of the fact that the Alabama
cities are not located directly on the coast, but are some
distance inland,” Barbier said.  Rhon Jones, the lawyer for the Alabama cities, said
Barbier’s ruling instructs the cities to present their claims
directly to BP. If the oil company won’t pay, the judge said the
cities may come back to the court for further consideration.  “These four Alabama cities are on direct travel routes to
the coast,” he said. “We believe these cities have suffered an
economic impact because of the spill.”  The decision allows the Mexican states to pursue some
claims because they “all did suffer proprietary interest
damages,” Enrique Serna, their attorney, said in a phone
interview. “Regarding negligence and gross negligence, we are
content that those claims are alive.”  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  NBA Drops Antitrust Suit Against Players’ Union in New York  The National Basketball Association dropped its lawsuit
seeking to block antitrust claims brought by the union that
represents NBA players.  The league and the National Basketball Players Association
on Nov. 26 announced an agreement in principle on a new labor
deal, paving the way for an end to the lockout that forced the
cancellation of part of the NBA season.  Both sides filed papers in Manhattan federal court Dec. 9
dismissing the suit, which the NBA filed in August. The league
claimed the union was using the threat of antitrust litigation
to extract better terms in contract talks.  The move came the day after payers and owners ratified a
10-year labor agreement, which will allow the season to start
Dec. 25. The NBA will play a shortened 66-game season.  National Basketball Association v. National Basketball
Players Association, 11-cv-05369, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Sabre Seeks to Pursue Antitrust Claims Against American  Sabre Holdings Corp.  asked a judge to modify the so-called
automatic stay in American Airlines’ bankruptcy so it can pursue
counterclaims against the carrier in an antitrust dispute.  Sabre said in its filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New
York that AMR Corp.’s American doesn’t oppose the request.  “To enforce the automatic stay would permit American to
use the stay as a sword, not a shield, in litigation crucial to
both American and Sabre,” Sabre said in the filing.  American sued Travelport Ltd. and  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW) ,
the operators of electronic reservations systems, in April
accusing them of monopolizing the distribution of fare and
flight data to travel agents. Sabre, the largest U.S.-based
global fare data distribution system, was added as a defendant
in June.  Trials had already been scheduled by the state and federal
courts for next year in the antitrust lawsuits when American
filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy last month. Sabre, based in
Southlake, Texas, filed antitrust counterclaims before the
bankruptcy.  Although American is permitted under bankruptcy law to
continue pursuing its affirmative claims, the automatic stay
precludes Sabre from going ahead with its counterclaims.  The bankruptcy court will hold a hearing to decide whether
Sabre can continue with its half of the suits.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Samsung Wins Approval for  Australia  Tablet Sales as Apple Loses  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  will start selling its rival to
Apple Inc.’s iPad 2 in Australian stores before Christmas after
the country’s highest court denied the U.S. company’s bid to
maintain a ban on Samsung Galaxy tablets.  Chief Justice Robert French, on behalf of the three-judge
High Court panel, said Dec. 9 that Apple failed to persuade them
that it could win on appeal and denied the company a hearing. He
reinstated an appeals court judgment lifting the ban on the
Galaxy 10.1 tablets in Australia.  The ruling ends Apple’s four-month effort to keep the
iPad’s biggest rival out of Australia on claims it infringes
patents related to touch-screen technology. Apple and Samsung,
the world’s biggest makers of smartphones and tablet computers,
have sued each other on four continents since the Cupertino,
California-based company accused the South Korean electronics
maker in April of “slavishly copying” its products.  “While the win in Australia won’t give a big boost to
Samsung’s revenue, it should be seen as symbolic,” Choi Do
Yeon, an analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul
said in a phone interview. “Samsung suffered a blow to its
image from earlier losses, but now they’re recovering.”  Samsung’s lawyer Katrina Howard said last week, before a
High Court judge extended the ban, the company had planned to
import the tablets into Australia over the weekend and have them
in stores on Monday.  Howard said it was “critical” for the company to start
sales before Christmas.  Apple and Samsung have filed at least 30 lawsuits against
each other, according to the Suwon, South Korea-based company.  On Dec. 8, Samsung failed to win an order from a Paris
court to block Apple from selling its newest smartphone iPhone
4S in France. The maker of iMac computers also said it will
appeal a U.S. judge’s refusal to block Samsung’s 4G smartphone
and Galaxy Tab 10.1 computer.  The case is:  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  For more, click here.  Brian Kim Offered 6- to 18-Year Term in Alleged Ponzi Scheme  Brian Kim, a former hedge-fund manager accused of running a
$6 million Ponzi scheme, was offered six to 18 years in prison
by prosecutors in exchange for a guilty plea to grand larceny
and related charges.  Kim was taken into custody this year by authorities in Hong
Kong, where he had fled before a U.S. trial scheduled to begin
in January on charges that he stole $430,000 from a Manhattan
condominium complex where he lived.  He was indicted again in February and charged with running
a Ponzi scheme at his firm, Liquid Capital Management LLC, from
January 2003 to January 2011. He returned to the U.S. in October
and pleaded not guilty to grand larceny and bail jumping.  Kim hasn’t decided whether to accept the Manhattan district
attorney’s offer, which would resolve all three of the state
cases against him, his lawyer, Justin Levine, said Dec. 9 after
a hearing before Justice Charles Solomon of the New York State
Supreme Court Judge. His client may face as long as 45 years in
prison if convicted of all the charges, Levine said.  Kim plans to plead guilty next week in federal court in
Manhattan to passport-fraud charges that carry a maximum
sentence of a year in prison, Levine said. U.S. prosecutors
accused Kim of lying to officials in New York to obtain a new
passport by saying he had lost his, which he had surrendered as
part of the 2009 condo case, Levine said.  The state case is People v. Kim, 2011/86, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan). The CFTC suit is
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Kim, 11-cv-01013,
and the federal criminal case is U.S. v. Kim, 11-cr-00642, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  Dr Pepper Snapple Group to Appeal $18.3 Million Jury Verdict  Dr Pepper Snapple Group Inc. (DPS) , the soft-drink maker, said it
plans to appeal an $18.3 million verdict awarded to six
plaintiffs in an age-discrimination lawsuit against its American
Bottling Co. unit.  The case involved activities that occurred before the
company’s spinoff from Cadbury Plc in 2008, Dr Pepper said Dec.
9 in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
A federal jury in Los Angeles returned the verdict on Dec. 7,
the company said.  Dr Pepper said in the filing that it has established a
reserve equal to the awarded damages. The Plano, Texas-based
company said its 2011 earnings may be less than forecast because
didn’t anticipate the verdict.  The complaint, filed in March 2009 by present and former
employees, alleged that American Bottling enforced an unwritten
policy of discriminating against older workers. The company
assigned older truck drivers and forklift operators to more
difficult tasks so they would quit or become injured, according
to the complaint.  The workers sought damages for lost income, medical costs
and attorneys’ fees.  The case is Ward v. Cadbury Schweppes Bottling Group, 2:09-
cv-03279, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-Madoff Employee Lipkin Continues Cooperation, U.S. Says  Eric Lipkin, a former Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC employee who pleaded guilty to falsifying
documents to help carry out the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S.
history, is continuing his cooperation with authorities,
prosecutors said.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain approved Dec. 9 a
request by federal prosecutors for a six-month postponement of
Lipkin’s sentencing, scheduled for Dec. 15, “given Lipkin’s
continuing cooperation with the government.”  Lipkin, who faces as many as 70 years in prison for his
role in the Madoff fraud, will be sentenced June 15.  Lipkin pleaded guilty in June to six criminal counts,
including conspiracy, falsifying records and bank fraud. He
agreed to cooperate with the government in its investigation of
the fraud at his former firm, which was made public with founder
Bernard Madoff’s arrest in December 2008.  Lipkin admitted he falsified documents to show non-existent
account holdings, to put people on the Madoff payroll who didn’t
work for the firm and to fraudulently apply for a construction
loan. He is free on $2.5 million bond.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year term in a North Carolina
prison.  The case is U.S. v. Lipkin, 10-CR-228, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Day Trader Bouchareb Gets 30 Months in Insider Case  Former day trader Jamil Bouchareb was sentenced to 30
months in prison for trading on stock tips gleaned from the wife
of a former  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  salesman.  Bouchareb’s partner, Daniel Corbin, was sentenced to six
months immediately after U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero 
imposed Bouchareb’s sentence Dec. 9 in federal court in
Manhattan.  Bouchareb and Corbin were indicted in December 2008 on
charges they made illegal trades based on confidential tips from
the wife of Matthew Devlin, the former Lehman salesman. Devlin’s
wife,  Nina Devlin , at the time was a Brunswick Group public-
relations executive who was involved with corporate deals. Nina
Devlin wasn’t charged with wrongdoing.  Bouchareb pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud
in May 2009, agreeing to forfeit $1.58 million.  “I made a stupid mistake,” Bouchareb told Marrero at the
hearing. “If you could allow me a second chance, I’d appreciate
it.”  People trading on the tips reaped more than $4.8 million on
illegal transactions from March 2004 to July 2008, according to
a related civil case brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The case is U.S. v. Bouchareb, 08-mj-2777, U.S. District
Judge, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court Filings  American Airlines Bankruptcy Docket Most Popular on Bloomberg  The bankruptcy docket of  AMR Corp. (AMR) , the parent American
Airlines, was the most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg
Law system last week.  The Fort Worth, Texas-based company, which traces its roots
to 1920s air-mail operations in the Midwest, listed $24.7
billion in assets and $29.6 billion in debt in Chapter 11 papers
filed Nov. 29 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 