-- 
HSBC Bank USA Pulls Out of MBIA Restructuring Lawsuits

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-12-12T18:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/hsbc-bank-usa-pulls-out-of-mbia-restructuring-lawsuits-in-new-york-court.html
HSBC (HSBA)  Bank USA agreed to withdraw
from lawsuits challenging bond insurer  MBIA Inc. ’s restructuring
in 2009, becoming the fifth plaintiff to drop out of the
litigation since August.  HSBC’s action against MBIA was discontinued with prejudice,
according to a stipulation filed today in New York State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan . No reason was given for the withdrawal. A
claim dismissed with prejudice cannot be refiled.  KBC Investments Cayman Islands V Ltd. withdrew from the
suits in August, according to court filings. Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank pulled out in September,  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  in October and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
November.  Banks including UBS AG and Bank of America Corp. remain
plaintiffs in the suits, according to the filing. The banks said
in the suits, filed in 2009, that Armonk, New York-based MBIA’s
restructuring might make it unable to pay claims.  “The remaining plaintiffs are fully committed to seeing
this litigation through to the end,” Robert J. Giuffra, lead
counsel for the banks and a partner at  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP 
in  New York , in a telephone interview.  More banks or other firms disputing MBIA’s restructuring
may drop of lawsuits by the end of the year, Jay Brown, the bond
insurer’s chief executive officer, said last month. Banks have
discontinued litigation as MBIA negotiates settlements over the
credit-default swaps it sold to the lenders to protect against
losses on mortgage securities and other debt.  MBIA said Nov. 10 that it had settled $10.6 billion of
transactions since Sept. 30 at an undisclosed cost, bringing the
amount of bets terminated this year to $23 billion.  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for MBIA, declined to comment.  The cases are ABN Amro Bank NV v.  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , 601475/2009,
and ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846/2009, New York State
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  