-- 
LSE to Buy Rest of FTSE Index Provider From Pearson in Derivatives Push

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-12-12T17:12:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/lse-to-buy-remaining-50-of-ftse-indexes-from-pearson-in-derivatives-push.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
agreed to buy the 50 percent of FTSE International Ltd. it
doesn’t already own from  Pearson Plc (PSON)  for 450 million pounds
($702 million) in cash as it seeks to expand in derivatives.  The acquisition of FTSE International, which publishes the
U.K.’s benchmark FTSE 100 Index and more than 200,000 other
gauges, is expected to be completed in the first quarter of
2012, the two companies said in separate statements today.  LSE trails NYSE Euronext and  Deutsche Boerse  AG in
derivatives and is trying to expand its offering of futures and
options contracts on companies and indexes across  Europe . Owning
an index operator makes it easier to provide derivatives based
on the gauges.  “This is a high-growth business,”  David Lester , LSE’s
director of information services, said in an interview today.
“FTSE significantly diversifies LSE’s business and creates new
growth opportunities for LSE’s listed derivatives trading
business, a key strategic priority for the group.”  In 2001, LSE failed to buy Liffe, a London-based
derivatives exchange that  lists  futures and options on the FTSE
100 and other European gauges. Liffe is now owned by  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , which is struggling to convince antitrust regulators
that its proposed merger with Deutsche Boerse won’t harm
competition in derivatives.  LCH.Clearnet Purchase  LSE is also seeking to acquire LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the
London-based clearinghouse that processes LSE’s trades and
dominates the market for interest-rate swaps.  Pearson has been pruning its business by moving focus away
from data generation. The company sold its 62 percent stake in
Interactive Data Corp., a U.S.-based data provider, last year
for $3.4 billion.  “We view this as a very good price for Pearson and is over
100 million pounds more than we had valued the stake,” Lorna Tilbian, an analyst at Numis, wrote in a note to investors
today. “Pearson has a very strong recent track record in M&A.”
She rates Pearson “hold.” FTSE International contributed about
18 million euros ($24 million) to Pearson’s after-tax earnings
in 2011 and its sale will cut 2012 per-share earnings by 2 pence
to 83 pence, she said.  LSE shares fell 40 pence, or 4.9 percent, to close at 780
pence in  London  today, as  Standard & Poor’s  also began reviewing
the company’s credit rating for possible downgrade. Pearson
dropped 16 pence, or 1.4 percent to 1,128 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  