-- 
Serbia Central Bank Changes Rules to Ease Lending Conditions

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-12-12T16:49:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/serbia-central-bank-changes-rules-to-ease-lending-conditions-1-.html
Serbia ’s central bank will change
rules to boost lending in the Balkan nation as the flow of funds
from abroad dries up amid Europe’s debt crisis, Governor Dejan Soskic said.  The National Bank of Serbia in Belgrade will lower loan-
loss provisioning rates to release 57 billion dinars ($736
million) from a total of 447 billion dinars that banks keep in
reserves for bad credits, Vice-Governor Mira Eric-Jovic told a
news conference today with Soskic in attendance.  The central bank’s analysis of the effects of such a move
“concluded that this form of policy relaxation is possible,”
Soskic said.  Eastern Europe may face a credit squeeze as neighboring
western banks withdraw liquidity because of the euro area’s
sovereign debt crisis,  Christine Lagarde , managing director of
the  International Monetary Fund , warned Nov. 7. The region’s
financial stability is at risk as western European lenders trim
their balance sheets by as much as 2.5 trillion euros ($3.3
trillion) to meet new  capital requirements , Morgan Stanley said
Nov. 14.  Expected Crunch  European leaders decided last month that the region’s banks
must increase core capital reserves to 9 percent by mid-2012 as
the sovereign-debt crisis threatens to spread to Italy and
 Spain . With about three-quarters of eastern Europe’s banking
industry owned by lenders including UniCredit SpA and Erste
Group Bank AG, local units are likely to receive less support as
a result of the new requirements, the  European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development  has warned.  Serbia’s central bank unexpectedly lowered its benchmark
interest rate by a quarter-point to 9.75 percent on Dec. 8 for
the sixth time since June on concern the crisis will damp export
demand and slow economic growth. Serbia’s economy is expected to
grow 2 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2012, according to
central bank forecasts.  Soskic met with President  Boris Tadic  and Prime Minister
Mirko Cvetkovic on Dec. 10 with company representatives to work
on plans to improve companies’ access to cash.  Loan-loss provisioning rates in Serbia depend on the risk
of extended credits. Banks will book between 2 percent and 30
percent for most loans compared with the current 5 percent to 75
percent, Soskic said. There will be no provisioning for risk-
free credits, while those carrying the greatest risk will be 100
percent provisioned. Banks will be allowed to take commodities
as collateral to spur lending in the industry, Soskic said.  ‘Maintain Investor Confidence’  The lower provisioning won’t reduce the central bank’s
capacity to further lower  interest rates , Soskic said.  Serbia will need to repay or refinance between 5 billion
euros and 6 billion euros in 2012, and it “must maintain
investor confidence to be able to refinance the debt,” Milojko
Arsic, a member of the central bank’s board, told a separate
news conference today.  The country has 2 billion euros worth of short-term debt
maturing in 2012 and investor confidence “can be built only if
the country continues to lower its fiscal deficit,” Arsic said.  The central bank announced the measure after a weekend
meeting of the governor, Serbian president and prime minister
with company representatives, who had been putting pressure on
the Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije to lower the mandatory
reserves and release liquidity that banks would turn into
cheaper credits to cash-strapped corporate clients.  Soskic also dismissed calls for central bank to make
available part of foreign-currency reserves, which stood at 11.5
billion euros as of Dec. 6, for corporate lending as “that
would violate the law on the central bank.”  Current foreign-currency reserve levels, along with a
stable dinar, have kept Serbia from seeing an increase in the
cost of sovereign borrowing as has happened in many other
countries in  Europe , Soskic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  