-- 
Sex-Switch, Creepy Connick Sink ‘On a Clear Day’: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-12-12T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/sex-switch-harry-connick-s-creepy-shrink-sink-clear-day-jeremy-gerard.html
Hideous to look at and hard on the
ears despite star Harry Connick Jr., the Broadway revival of
“On a Clear Day You Can See Forever” is dead on arrival.  It would be DOA even without the pandering “re-
conceiving” by director Michael Mayer that’s turned a third-
tier show into a disaster.  In the early 1960s, Alan Jay Lerner (whose “My Fair Lady”
partner Frederick Loewe had retired) tapped into the popularity
of stories about reincarnation and extra sensory perception. He
ended up writing the songs -- the best of which are an honorable
‘B’ -- with Burton Lane, while writing a book that didn’t make
sense.  The revision by Mayer and playwright Peter Parnell makes
less sense.  Connick plays a by-the-book Freudian psychoanalyst whose
patient, inadvertently put into a hypnotic trance, becomes a
high-spirited woman from the 1940s. The widowed shrink continues
treating the spellbound patient in order to pursue a growing
romance with the mysterious siren.  In 1964, the patient was played by Broadway’s sexiest star,
Barbara Harris (and in the 1970 film by  Barbra Streisand ).  Today (the setting has been moved up to 1974) the patient
is played by David Turner, whose unrelenting boyishness is
beyond annoying. The sex change heightens the show’s yuck-factor
exponentially. A straight shrink taking advantage of a gay man
who regresses under hypnosis to the vivacious woman he once was?
Creepy.  Luckless  Third-tier musicals have their place, sometimes producing
hidden gems or giving newcomers a chance to shine. No such luck
here.  Connick is in his Sinatra-lite mode; the singing is
passable but he marks time until the final scene, which has some
juice. As the woman he falls for, Jessie Mueller, has some fine
moments, especially in the lovely “Ev’ry Night at Seven,” one
of several numbers interpolated from other Lerner and Lane
scores.  But they’re surrounded by a shrill, modestly talented cast
reduced to frugging about Christine Jones’s Op Art sets, in
Catherine Zuber’s atypically unsightly costumes. The uninspired
retro choreography is by JoAnn M. Hunter. Whenever the dancing
stops, Mayer plants his leads down stage to stare and sing
directly at us. He’s got our attention -- for all the wrong
reasons.  At the St. James Theatre, 246 W. 44th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: (no stars)  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 