-- 
Singaporeans Deny Conspiring Against U.S. in Exporting Technology to Iran

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-12-12T06:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/singaporeans-deny-conspiring-against-u-s-in-exporting-technology-to-iran.html
Four Singaporeans, accused by the
U.S. of smuggling radio parts found in Iraqi bombs, denied any
wrongdoing in challenging an extradition request from the U.S.  Lim Yong Nam, Lim Kow Seng, Benson Hia Soo Gan and Wong Yuh
Lan appeared before a  Singapore  judge today and said they had no
intention to contravene any U.S. laws or take part in any
conspiracy.  “I truly believed I entered into an ordinary business
transaction,” Lim Yong Nam said in a statement read out in
court.  The four, who were arrested in Singapore in October, had
allegedly duped a Minnesota-based company into selling them
6,000 radio communication devices for use in Singapore. Instead,
the equipment was shipped to Iran. The  U.S. has also accused 
Hossein Larijani, an Iranian, of being involved in the
conspiracy which violated U.S. export control laws.  According to an indictment issued in the District of
Columbia, the accused are charged with conspiracy to defraud the
U.S., smuggling, illegal export of goods from the U.S. to  Iran ,
illegal export of defense articles from the U.S., false
statements and obstruction of justice.  Iraqi bombs used to attack U.S. troops were traced to the
scheme, U.S. prosecutors said in charges against the Iranian and
four Singaporeans. At least 16 of the radio modules were found
in unexploded improvised explosive devices, or IEDs, in  Iraq ,
U.S. prosecutors had said.  Hia said he didn’t know the radio parts required an export
license.  “We’re innocent,” he told reporters after the hearing.
“We are dragged through the mud for nothing.”  Extraditable Offense  Cheng Tai Heng , an expert witness for Lim Yong Nam, Lim Kow
Seng and Hia, testified the charge of conspiracy to defraud the
U.S. isn’t an extraditable offense under a treaty between the
two countries. Cheng is professor of law at New York Law School.  Lim Yong Nam was granted bail of S$100,000 ($77,000) after
his lawyers submitted a psychiatric report while the other three
have remained in custody.  Admiral Mike Mullen, then chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff, in September reiterated assertions he and former
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  had made that Iran, which is
predominantly Shiite Muslim, is furnishing new, more deadly
weapons to Shiite militias targeting U.S. troops across the
border in Iraq, following a lull that began in 2008.  Shipments to Iran  From June 2007 through February 2008, the defendants used
their Singapore-based companies to buy the components from the
Minnesota manufacturer then sent them to Iran in five shipments,
according to the indictment. The modules, used to remotely
detonate bombs, include encryption capabilities and can transmit
data wirelessly as far as 40 miles (60 kilometers), the U.S.
prosecutors said.  The defendants told the company and the U.S. government
that the modules were to be used for a telecommunications
project in Singapore, according to U.S. prosecutors.  Three Singapore companies owned by or affiliated with the
defendants were charged: Opto Electronics Pte Ltd., NEL
Electronics Pte. Ltd., and Corezing International Pte. Ltd. Paya
Electronics Complex, an Iran-based company owned by Larijani,
was also charged, according to U.S. prosecutors.  Larijani, who lives in Iran, remains at large, the
prosecutors said.  The Singapore case is PP v Hia Soo Gan Benson & 3 Ors
W/Appl 4/2011 in the Singapore Subordinate Court and the U.S.
case is U.S. v. Larijani, 10-cr-174, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  