-- 
Singapore Stocks: Neptune Orient Lines, SingTel, Yangzijiang

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-12-12T09:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/singapore-stocks-neptune-orient-lines-singtel-yangzijiang.html
Singapore’s  Straits Times Index  rose
0.3 percent to 2,701.72 at the close, paring gains of as much as
1 percent. About the same number of stocks increased and fell in
gauge of 30 companies.  The following were among the most active shares in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company
names.  Export-related stocks: Shares of exporters, shipping
companies and port operators advanced after a report showed
confidence among U.S. consumers rose more than forecast in
December to a six-month high, boosting the outlook for Asian
exporters.  Hi-P International Ltd. (HIP)  , an electronics
manufacturer whose clients include BlackBerry-maker Research in
Motion Ltd., gained 0.8 percent to 64.5 Singapore cents.  Neptune
Orient Lines Ltd.  (NOL SP), Southeast Asia’s biggest container
line rose, added 1.3 percent to S$1.14. Hutchison Port Holdings
Trust (HPHT SP), the owner of port assets in  Hong Kong  and
 China , rose 0.8 percent to 62.5 U.S. cents.  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  , Southeast Asia’s
biggest phone company, climbed 2.6 percent to S$3.21, the
highest close since Nov. 15. SingTel is attractive as it offers
a hefty dividend yield,  Carey Wong , an analyst at OCBC
Investment Research, said in an interview. Investors are buying
high-yield stocks as a defensive strategy on concern market
volatility will continue next year as Europe struggles to
contain its sovereign-debt crisis, he said.  Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. (YZJ)  , China’s
third-largest shipyard outside state control, gained 1.1 percent
to 93.5 Singapore cents. The company said it and Qatar
Investment Corp. agreed to set up a joint venture, which will
help strengthen Yangzijiang’s efforts to build offshore
platforms and related vessels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  