-- 
Sino-Forest to Default After Missing Earnings Deadline as Sale Considered

-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-12-13T04:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/sino-forest-will-miss-earnings-deadline.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the timber
producer fending off fraud allegations, said it will default on
its bonds and miss a self-imposed deadline to report earnings as
it considers putting itself up for sale.  Sino-Forest won’t make a $9.78 million interest payment on
its 2016 convertible notes that’s due Dec. 15, the Hong Kong-and
Mississauga, Ontario-based company said yesterday in a
statement. There’s no assurance if or when the earnings results
will be released, it said.  The company’s shares tumbled in June after Carson Block, a
short seller, said it had exaggerated its timber assets in
 China . Sino-Forest may consider going private, selling a stake,
or seeking a merger to raise funds, Chief Executive Officer
Judson Martin said in a Nov. 23 interview.  “Maybe the creditors could force this into liquidation and
try and claim whatever they can from this as a result of this
breach,”  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7 billion at
First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s just another chapter in this sad
tale.”  Greenheart Group Ltd. , a unit that’s 64-percent controlled
by Sino-Forest according to Bloomberg data, had its shares
suspended from trading in  Hong Kong  pending the release of a
price-sensitive release, it said. Sino-Forest’s shares have been
suspended from the Toronto Stock Exchange since August by
 Canada ’s main securities regulator, which began an
investigation. The  Royal Canadian Mounted Police  also has
started a probe.  Business Sale  “The board has determined that it must consider all
strategic options available,” Sino-Forest said. “The company
may consider obtaining other sources of capital, including
through the recapitalization of the company or the sale of some
or all of its business.”  Sino-Forest said Nov. 15 it would publish its third-quarter
earnings within 30 day and the delay had breached certain
covenants on its senior and convertible notes. The company
expects to receive notices of default as it further delays its
earnings, it said in yesterday’s statement.  “It’s not surprising that the company will miss the
upcoming interest payment on its debt,” Block said in an e-
mailed statement. “It seems that a bankruptcy filing is a real
possibility.”  Evaluating Options  The forestry company, which has denied the allegations,
formed an independent committee in June to investigate the
accusations. Sino-Forest said yesterday the committee’s final
report now won’t be issued until 2012, instead of by the end of
the year as previously stated.  Sino-Forest retained Houlihan Lokey and law firm Bennett
Jones LLP as advisers to help evaluate its options.  “The company has a number of options available to it and
will be working with its stakeholders to determine the best
course of action to maximize value,” Cindy Leggett-Flynn, Hong
Kong-based spokeswoman at Brunswick Group, said by phone when
asked if the company is facing bankruptcy. Brunswick Group is
hired by Sino-Forest to handle its public relations.  Bond dealers were offering to buy Sino-Forest’s $600
million of 6.25 percent notes due in October 2017 for 25 cents
on the dollar at 4 p.m. yesterday in  New York , according to
Brownstone Investment Group LLC in New York. That’s down from 35
cents on Dec. 9.  The aggregate principal owed under Sino-Forest’s four
series of outstanding senior and convertible notes is about $1.8
billion, the company said in the statement.  Share Plunge  The plunge in Sino-Forest’s shares has cost investors about
C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Hedge-fund firm Paulson & Co., formerly Sino-Forest’s
biggest shareholder, sold its entire stake in June following the
Muddy Waters report, booking a C$462 million loss.  Other investors bought the shares after the allegations
were made, including Singapore-based billionaire  Richard
Chandler , who acquired stock to become Sino-Forest’s biggest
investor, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sino-Forest, which hired PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to
assist with the committee’s probe, will seek permission for the
shares to resume trading when it meets the Ontario Securities
Commission on Jan. 23, Chief Executive Officer Judson Martin
said in an interview last month.  ‘Not Wise’  Martin replaced  Allen Chan , a co-founder of the company,
who stepped down in August along with three other executives.  “It was not wise of Sino-Forest to indicate last month
that it would aim to release its earnings by Dec. 15 as it has
lost additional credibility by failing to deliver,” Kevin Pollack, a New York-based fund manager at Paragon Capital LP,
which invests in Chinese stocks, wrote in an e-mail.  The company published the independent committee’s interim
report on Nov. 15, in which the committee said it had confirmed
Sino-Forest’s cash balance and obtained information from Chinese
forestry bureaus verifying 77 percent of its timber assets.  The committee also said in its interim report that there
were missing records. It reported difficulties in obtaining
data, a lack of cooperation from some company executives, and an
absence of an internal audit function.  Accusations against Sino-Forest have fueled investor
concern that financial statements at some Chinese companies are
misleading.  Regulators and investors have increased their scrutiny of
Chinese companies trading in  North America . The U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission began an investigation last year into
the use of reverse takeovers, in which a closely held firm
becomes public by purchasing a shell company that already
trades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  