-- 
South Korea Coast Guard Officer Dies After Being Stabbed by Chinese Sailor

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-12-12T08:21:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/south-korea-coast-guard-officer-dies-after-being-stabbed-by-chinese-sailor.html
South Korea  said a Coast Guard
officer died today after being stabbed by a Chinese sailor
during an operation to seize an illegal fishing boat in the
 Yellow Sea .  Vice Foreign Minister Park Suk Hwan summoned China’s
ambassador to discuss the incident, a ministry official said,
speaking on condition of anonymity in line with government
policy. The Chinese boat and its nine sailors were taken to
Incheon, west of Seoul, the Coast Guard said in a statement.  Chinese fishing crews have clashed multiple times in the
past year with the coast guards and commercial vessels of nearby
countries, including South Korea,  Vietnam  and Japan. The
incidents and arrests of Chinese sailors have fueled tensions
over claims to fishing grounds and undersea oil and gas.  “There are few effective ways for South Korea to prevent
these kinds of incidents because  China , with its huge diplomatic
and economic power, often tries to stop other countries
punishing offenders,” said Park Dall Hyun, professor from the
maritime and fisheries department at Chonnam University in South
Jeolla Province. “Seizing boats and crews isn’t enough to stop
the illegal fishing.”  Violent Resistance  China is “ready to work” with South Korea following the
incident and has “taken measures to educate fisherman in order
to prohibit cross-border fishing,” ministry spokesman Liu
Weimin told reporters in Beijing. He called on South Korea to
protect the “legitimate rights” of the nine Chinese taken into
custody.  The crew resisted violently when their boat was boarded
about 87 kilometers (54 miles) from South Korea’s Socheong
Island, stabbing the officer who died and another one who was
hospitalized, the Coast Guard said in its statement.  Japan ’s Coast Guard last month arrested then released the
captain of a Chinese fishing boat for refusing inspection in
waters near southwestern Nagasaki prefecture. Japan arrested
another Chinese boat captain 15 months ago and detained him for
17 days after a collision with two coast guard ships.  The 2010 incident prompted authorities in Beijing to cut
off ministerial talks. China also detained employees of Japanese
construction company Fujita Corp. and curbed exports of rare
earth metals necessary for Japan’s automobile and high-tech
industries.  In June, Vietnam said a Chinese vessel harassed a survey
ship operated by Vietnam Oil & Gas Group in the  South China Sea .
A Vietnam Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokeswoman called the
incident “premeditated,” while China’s Xinhua News Agency
reported that vessel got tangled with cables of the “illegally
operating” oil-exploration vessel and was dragged for more than
an hour before the fishermen cut themselves free.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  