-- 
Spain’s Montoro Says ’Bad Bank’ Would Weigh on Taxpayers

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-12-12T10:33:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/spain-s-montoro-says-bad-bank-would-weigh-on-taxpayers-1-.html
Cristobal Montoro, the economy
spokesman for Spain’s  People’s Party  that won a national
election last month, said “intermediate solutions” exist to
deal with the impaired assets held by Spanish banks.  “A ‘bad bank’ means taxpayers will pay for deteriorated
assets and we shouldn’t do that,” Montoro said during an
interview today with radio station Cadena Cope. “There are
intermediate solutions, which have been implemented in other
countries,” Montoro said.  The PP, which won a landslide victory on Nov. 20 and is due
to take over from the ruling Socialists next week, has pledged a
“cleanup and restructuring” of the country’s banking system to
help restore the supply of credit in an economy where lending is
 shrinking  at its fastest pace on record. Spanish banks, burdened
with 176 billion euros ($234 billion) of what the Bank of  Spain 
terms “troubled” assets linked to real estate, are fighting to
preserve profits as lending slumps and their cost of financing
surges.  The new government will decide early next year whether to
create a bad bank to buy real-estate assets from lenders to
remove toxic assets from their balance sheets, a PP official who
declined to be named because the deliberations aren’t public
said on Dec. 8. Real-estate assets need to be valued at their
true price and the process will affect some banks and not
others, the official said.  ‘Share Responsibility’  Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said
on Dec. 1 all options for bolstering banks should
be considered, including varieties of so-called bad banks.  “Of course, the state should share a part of the
responsibility,” Montoro said. “In Spain’s case, these assets
are houses and land and this is positive because it means
facilitating access to housing for many Spaniards and other
Europeans as well.”  “We need to clean up the banking sector and we need to do
so using these assets which are in banks’ balances and which
aren’t finding takers on the market at their current prices,”
he said.  Prime Minister-elect  Mariano Rajoy  has asked for at least
two papers from academics on how to create a bad bank, two
people with knowledge of the matter said on Nov. 25. Both
proposals outlined mechanisms for a state-backed agency to buy
soured assets such as real estate from banks at a discount, said
the people.  According to one of the proposals, Spain needs external
financing of about 100 billion euros to absorb the cost of
transferring assets to the bad bank and should seek it from the
European Financial Stability Facility or the  International
Monetary Fund , one of the people said. Both options call for
valuations of real estate to be made by independent appraisers,
the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  