-- 
Spain Needs Structural Overhaul Plus Austerity, Rajoy Says

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-12-12T14:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/spain-needs-structural-overhaul-plus-austerity-rajoy-says-1-.html
Spanish Prime Minister-elect  Mariano Rajoy  pledged “important decisions” when his Cabinet meets for
the first time on Dec. 23 as the economy will need structural
changes as well as austerity moves to exit a three-year slump.  “Austerity alone isn’t enough to resolve our problems,”
Rajoy said in a speech to party leaders today in Madrid, vowing
to overhaul the labor market and the banking sector.  The People’s Party leader will be sworn in on Dec. 21 after
defeating the ruling Socialists in a landslide on Nov. 20. Rajoy
will seek to prevent  Spain  from following Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  in seeking a bailout amid surging borrowing costs and
an economy poised for contraction with unemployment at a 15-year
high 21.5 percent, the highest rate in the  European Union .  “The  European Central Bank ’s last decisions helped provide
relief but the best relief, as well as stable and sustainable
economic growth, will come from our capacity to do our homework,
controlling the public deficit and debt as well as private
debt,” Rajoy said.  Spain still needs to finance itself this year and next, a
task that’s currently difficult to do at a “reasonable” cost,
the premier-elect said.  Yield Back Over 6 Percent  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bond  today rose
above the 6 percent level that prompted the ECB to start buying
Spanish debt on the secondary market in August. The spread with
the yield on similar German maturities widened to 396 basis
points from 360 basis points Dec. 9, even as EU leaders agreed
in Brussels on Dec. 9 on a new fiscal accord to deliver the
region from its two-year debt crisis.  Standard & Poor’s  last week put 15 European nations on
watch for potential downgrades pending the outcome of the
summit, saying it may lower Spain’s rating by as much as two
levels. Moody’s Investors Service today reiterated its intention
to revisit the ratings of all EU sovereigns during the first
quarter of 2012, “in view of the continued absence of decisive
policy measures despite the recent euro area summit.”  “A fundamental decision was taken which is to resolutely
battle public deficit and debt,” Rajoy said, commenting on the
Brussels summit. “A large part of Spain’s problems and of other
countries as well come from the Maastricht Treaty’s fiscal
consolidation criteria not having been respected.”  The Spanish economy will expand less than 1 percent this
year and next, Rajoy said. The PP’s economy spokesman, Cristobal Montoro, earlier today told radio station Cadena Cope that Spain
risks falling into a recession.  Once installed, Rajoy said he would quickly call a meeting
with the leaders of Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous regions, whose
finances threaten the central government’s deficit goals as they
manage more than a third of public spending, including health
and education.  Rajoy also proposed members of his party, Jesus Posada and
Pio Garcia-Escudero, take over as speakers of the Congress and
the Senate, the two houses of Parliament that re-open tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  