-- 
St. Louis Post-Dispatch Publisher Lee Enterprises Files For Bankruptcy

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-12-12T13:55:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/st-louis-post-dispatch-publisher-lee-enterprises-files-for-bankruptcy.html
Lee Enterprises Inc ., the owner of
the St. Louis Post-Dispatch and 47 other daily U.S. newspapers,
filed for  bankruptcy protection  from creditors and plans to
borrow as much as $40 million to continue operations.  In Chapter 11 documents filed today in Wilmington,
 Delaware , Lee listed $1.2 billion in assets and $1.3 billion in
debt. Among the Davenport, Iowa-based company’s largest
unsecured  creditors  listed in court papers were Alberta
Newsprint Sales of Naperville, Illinois, and North Pacific Paper
Co. of Longview,  Washington , owed more than $1 million each.  Lee acquired Pulitzer Inc. in 2005 to gain control of the
Post-Dispatch. In addition to the 48 daily newspapers, Lee has
300 specialty publications and interests in four other dailies.
Carl Schmidt, Lee’s chief financial officer, said in a court
filing that the company “has significant long-term debt.”  “A significant portion of the company’s revenue is derived
from advertising,” Schmidt said. “Operating revenue in most
categories decreased in 2009, 2010 and 2011.”  The company had said on Dec. 2 that it planned to file a
prepackaged Chapter 11 reorganization by today to modify and
extend the maturity of the remaining $138 million of first-lien
notes that are due in April 2012. The notes carry a 9.05 percent
interest rate.  The loan documents required unanimous approval to modify
the notes. Because holders of 6 percent of the notes didn’t go
along, bankruptcy would be used to complete the restructuring,
 Lee  said in the statement.  The company is asking a judge to approve its reorganization
plan, which is designed to pay all creditors in full, at a
hearing in late January.  Lee has lost 69 percent of its  market value  this year. The
shares rose 13 percent to about 77 cents on the New York Stock
Exchange on Dec. 9. Under the current plan,  investors  will
retain their stock.  The case is In re  Lee Enterprises Inc. (LEE) , 11-13918,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  