-- 
State Bank of India on ‘Capital Hunt’ as Singh Delays Funds

-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 
2011-12-13T04:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/state-bank-of-india-on-capital-hunt-as-singh-delays-investment.html
State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s
largest lender, plans to cancel untapped credit lines and change
how some loans are classified to bolster its cushion against
losses pending an infusion of government funds, Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri said.  The lender has set up a “capital hunt” panel to review
ways to conserve money, Chaudhuri, 58, said in an interview in
 Mumbai  yesterday. The measures, which will include adjusting the
risk weightings on loans to companies, may help free up 30 basis
points to 100 basis points of risk buffers by March, said Chief
Financial Officer Diwakar Gupta, who heads the panel.  State Bank has dropped 37 percent in Mumbai this year as
its Tier 1 ratio fell below a government target and bad debts
climbed amid an  economic slowdown . The lender has been seeking
funds from Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration for
almost two years to replenish capital depleted by credit growth
and increased provisions for defaults on loans.  “The government’s dilly-dallying on the time frame for
infusing capital into State Bank leaves them with no choice but
to go ahead with this capital hunt,” Alex Mathews, head of
research at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd., said by
telephone yesterday. “It remains to be seen whether the bank
will be able to free up as much as 1 percentage point of  Tier 1
capital  through this.”  Boost Capital Ratio  The bank, based in Mumbai, aims to boost its Tier 1 ratio
to more than 9 percent by the end of March, Chaudhuri said. The
measure narrowed to 7.47 percent for the three months ended Sept.
30, from 8.9 percent a year earlier. That compared with 13.1
percent at  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) ,  India ’s second-largest lender by
assets.  Shares of State Bank rose 0.1 percent to 1,775 rupees at
9:51 a.m. local time in Mumbai trading, while the nation’s
benchmark Sensitive Index gained 0.2 percent. The lender is
headed for its worst annual performance in three years.  The cost of protecting the debt of State Bank, considered a
proxy for the sovereign, has more than doubled this year on
concern that tightened monetary policy will slow growth and lead
to more bad debts. The credit default swap prices climbed to 369
basis points on Dec. 12, from 161 at the end of last year,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘A Bit Profligate’  State Bank ’s financial strength rating was downgraded by
Moody’s Investors Service in October. The capital ratio is below
the government’s 8 percent target for state-run lenders and
“provides an insufficient cushion” to support growth and to
absorb higher credit costs as defaults climb, the rating company
said in the statement on Oct. 4.  “We were a bit profligate with our capital,” Chaudhuri
said yesterday. “Now we understand that the capital has to be
used very prudently. That is why we are very careful about
capital.”  Chaudhuri took the helm of the 205-year-old lender, where
he has worked for about 37 years, on April 7. He had overseen
international banking operations since April 2009, after
previously working in various divisions including corporate
lending and the treasury department.  The bank’s bad-loan ratio widened to 4.19 percent of total
advances as of Sept. 30 from 3.35 percent a year earlier, as 13
interest-rate increases from the  Reserve Bank  of India since
March 2010 and a slowing economy led to deterioration in State
Bank’s asset quality.  Fund Infusion  India,  Asia ’s third-largest economy, grew 6.9 percent in
the three months ended Sept. 30, the slowest pace in more than
two years. The Reserve Bank, which has increased  borrowing costs 
by 375 basis points since March 2010, said on Oct. 25 that the
monetary tightening will moderate economic expansion and help
ease inflation as it signaled a pause in the increases. The
central bank is set to review its policy on Dec. 16.  India’s government, which owns 59.4 percent of the bank,
will inject capital into its state-run lenders to ensure they
have an 8 percent Tier 1 ratio by March, banking secretary D. K.
Mittal said on Oct. 27. The government has committed to
investing more than 30 billion rupees ($568 million) in State
Bank by March, Chaudhuri said yesterday.  State Bank also plans to ask corporate borrowers to seek
credit ratings, Gupta said. Loans to companies that get an AA
rating would allow the bank to lower risk weightings to 50
percent, freeing up some cash, Gupta said.  “‘Capital hunt’ is the nomenclature for what we are
doing,” Gupta said. “That is, more effective utilization and
conservation of capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  