-- 
Sun Life to Stop Selling U.S. Annuities, Cuts 800 Jobs

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-12-12T21:26:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/sun-life-chief-connor-to-stop-selling-variable-annuity-products-in-u-s-.html
Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) ,  Canada ’s
third-largest insurer, plans to stop selling variable annuities
and individual life insurance products in the U.S. and will cut
800 jobs there as it shifts focus to Canada and  Asia . The stock
had its biggest gain in more than two years.  Sun Life expects to record costs of about C$75 million ($73
million) to C$100 million from the changes, a portion of which
will be in the fourth quarter, the Toronto-based company said
today in a statement. The insurer will also take a writedown of
about C$97 million.  Variable annuities, which provide guaranteed incomes to
customers regardless of market performance, have led to losses
at Sun Life and bigger rival  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  after
equities plunged. Sun Life’s U.S. insurance unit had losses of
C$569 million in the third quarter, and C$279 million in the
first nine months of 2011.  The move follows the Dec. 1 promotion of Dean Connor to
chief executive officer, replacing Donald Stewart, who retired.
Sun Life plans to concentrate in the U.S. on group insurance and
voluntary benefits, as well as its Boston-based MFS Investment
Management business. The company also pledged to focus on Asia
and Canada.  Sun Life is “setting out on a course that is focused on
improving return on equity, reducing the volatility in the
business, and being more focused in areas that we think provide
superior avenues for growth,” Connor, 55, said today in a
telephone interview.  Sun Life soared 8.4 percent to C$19.86 in 4 p.m. Toronto
Stock Exchange trading, the biggest jump since July 2009. The
shares have plunged 34 percent this year, the third-worst
performer on the 43-company  S&P/TSX Financials Index .  Job Cuts  Sun Life will eliminate about 800 jobs in the “coming
months,” mostly in the U.S. in positions that support sales of
annuities and life insurance, Connor said. The move will reduce
expenses by about $170 million. The insurer had 2,650 U.S.
employees at the end of 2010, according to company reports.  When asked by investors on a conference call about the
sustainability of Sun Life’s 36 cent-a-share quarterly dividend,
Connor said the company would reconsider the payout if the
economy worsens and it has an impact on capital levels. Sun
Life’s dividend yield is about 7.7 percent, compared with 4.7
percent for Manulife.  “There are other options,” available to Sun Life instead
of cutting the dividend, Connor said. “Those include selling
businesses that are non-core to our future growth plans, and
reinsurance.”  Peter Rozenberg, an analyst at UBS AG in Toronto, today
raised his rating of Sun Life to “buy” from “neutral”
because he said the shares have fallen too far below the
insurer’s book value. Sun Life closed at 75 percent of book
value per share on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  