-- 
Arizona Illegal-Immigration Legislation Given U.S. Supreme Court Review

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-12-12T18:56:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/supreme-court-to-hear-arizona-s-appeal-of-ruling-against-immigration-law.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  said it will
consider reviving the trailblazing Arizona law that would use
local police and prosecutors to crack down on illegal
 immigration .  Already set to rule on President Barack Obama’s health-care
law by the middle of next year, the justices today added another
high-profile case that has implications for similar laws around
the country and for the 2012 elections.  The court will hear Arizona’s appeal of a ruling that said
the state was interfering with the federal government’s
authority over immigration policy.  Arizona , which says its 370-
mile border with  Mexico  is the crossing point for half the
nation’s illegal immigrants, contends it has the right to tackle
a problem that the national government has failed to address.  The lower court ruling “leaves  Arizona  and its people to
suffer from a serious problem without any realistic legal tools
for addressing it,” Arizona and its Republican governor, Jan Brewer, argued in their appeal. They are represented by former
U.S. Solicitor General  Paul Clement .  As with health care, the case is a test of federalism,
pitting the federal government against a collection of states.
Arizona has support at the high court from 11 other states,
including  Alabama , which is defending its own illegal-
immigration crackdown against an Obama administration lawsuit.  Ultimate Authority  Justice  Elena Kagan , who formerly served as Obama’s top
Supreme Court lawyer, didn’t take part in the court’s decision
to hear the case.  The administration, which urged the justices to reject the
Arizona appeal without a hearing, said the law conflicts with
Supreme Court decisions establishing that the federal government
is the ultimate authority on immigration. U.S. Solicitor General
Donald Verrilli said that while states can “cooperate” in
enforcing federal policy, they can’t challenge it.  The Arizona provisions “do not represent an effort to
cooperate with the federal government in enforcing federal
immigration law,” argued Verrilli, the administration’s top
Supreme Court lawyer. “Instead, they are designed to establish
Arizona’s own immigration policy, ‘attrition through
enforcement,’ to supplant what the governor called in her
signing statement the federal government’s ‘misguided policy.’”  Justice Department  Challenge  The Justice Department sued to challenge the Arizona
measure, and a San Francisco-based federal appeals court blocked
it from taking effect in April.  Arizona’s law, known as S.B. 1070, requires police officers
to check immigration status when they arrest or stop someone and
have “reasonable suspicion” that the person is in the country
illegally.  The measure also requires registered immigrants to carry
documentation with them at all times, or be subject to 30 days
imprisonment. In addition, the Arizona law makes it a state
crime to violate federal registration requirements.  “Arizona has been more than patient waiting for Washington
to secure the border,” Brewer said in a statement after the
court acted. “Decades of federal inaction and misguided policy
have created a dangerous and unacceptable situation, and states
deserve clarity from the court in terms of what role they have
in fighting illegal immigration.”  Similar Laws  More than 10 million adults are in the U.S. illegally,
according to the Pew Hispanic Center in  Washington . At the same
time, the number of people seized trying to cross the border is
falling. Apprehensions by the U.S. Border Patrol dropped from
1.19 million in fiscal year 2005 to 463,000 in fiscal 2010,
according to the agency.  The statute, the first of its kind when signed into law
last year, inspired the enactment of similar laws around the
country. Arizona is now one of at least 10 states that check
immigration status during investigations, arrests or jail
bookings, according to the appeal.  “Whatever the court decides, we already know that S.B.
1070 is a wrongheaded policy,” said Andrei Cherny, the chairman
of the Arizona Democratic Party, in a statement. “It is unjust,
divisive, makes our communities less safe and makes it harder to
solve the problem of illegal immigration.”  A ruling striking down the Arizona law potentially would
put more focus on the federal government’s role in stopping
illegal immigration, increasing the importance of the issue in
next year’s presidential campaign.  Federal Intervention?  “Maybe this will prompt the federal government to
intervene and give us a law that everyone can live with,” said
Paloma Zuleta, communications director for the League of United
Latin American Citizens, a Washington-based nonprofit group that
promotes the well-being of Hispanic Americans.  The justices divided along ideological lines in May when
they upheld a separate Arizona law that threatens companies with
loss of their corporate charters if they hire illegal
immigrants. The 5-3 ruling said a federal law governing
immigrant hiring leaves room for states to impose their own
penalties for non-compliance.  The court will likely hear arguments in April and, as with
health care, rule around the end of June.  The case is Arizona v.  United States , 11-182.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 