-- 
Swiss Re Chief Lippe to Retire Early, New CEO Named ‘Soon’

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   P a u l   V e r s c h u u r
-- 
2011-12-12T09:31:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/swiss-re-says-chief-executive-officer-stefan-lippe-to-step-down-next-year.html
Swiss Re Ltd. , the world’s second-
largest reinsurer, said Chief Executive Officer Stefan Lippe has
decided to retire early and will step down next year.  A successor to Lippe, 56, who was appointed CEO in 2009
after losses prompted Jacques Aigrain’s ouster, will be named
“soon,” the Zurich-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Under Lippe’s leadership, the company repaid a loan from
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . and regained its AA-
 credit rating  with  Standard & Poor’s . Swiss Re last month
reported third-quarter net income more than doubled to $1.35
billion amid fewer natural-disaster claims, higher property-and-
casualty premiums and gains on its bond holdings.  This decision “came earlier than expected,” Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based analyst with Vontobel, said in a note
to investors. “Swiss Re has a broad management board and a
smooth succession toward a new CEO should be no problem.”  Swiss Re shares fell as much as 1.7 percent. They were down
0.8 percent to 49.08 Swiss francs at 9:30 a.m. in Zurich
trading, valuing the company at 18.2 billion francs ($19.6
billion).  “We certainly have good candidates internally, but will
also look outside of the company to keep all options open,”
said Rolf Tanner, a Zurich-based spokesman for the reinsurer.  ‘New Era’  Lippe had been with the company for almost three decades.
He refocused Swiss Re on underwriting after Aigrain’s strategy
of trading securities led to more than $8 billion of writedowns
and losses, and created a new holding company for the
reinsurance business this year. A week after Lippe took the top
job in February 2009, the company tapped Berkshire for 3 billion
francs of capital.  Candidates to succeed Lippe may include Christian Mumenthaler, who was named CEO of the reinsurance business in
October, according to Fabrizio Croce, a Zurich-based analyst
with Kepler Capital Markets. Mumenthaler is responsible for
strategy, financial results and  asset allocation  at the unit,
which accounts for about 80 percent of Swiss Re’s business.  “The lead time should be sufficient to allow for a smooth
transition,” Lippe, who said he decided to step down over the
weekend, said in the statement. “Now that the turnaround has
been achieved, a new era begins for Swiss Re with a new
corporate structure and refined strategy. This was the right
moment for me to choose to inform the board about my intention
to retire early.”  Swiss Re said last month that Chief Underwriting Officer
Brian Gray will retire early on April 30 next year to return to
 Canada . Swiss Re wants to announce his successor in the first
quarter of next year. Chief Economist Thomas Hess retires at the
end of the month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Verschuur in Zurich at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  