-- 
Swiss Franc Declines Versus Dollar as European Uncertainty Damps Demand

-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-12-12T16:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/swiss-franc-declines-against-dollar-before-snb-monetary-policy-meeting.html
The  franc  fell against the dollar as
concern that European leaders have failed to find a solution to
the region’s crisis spurred demand for assets with fewer ties to
the euro area.  The Swiss currency weakened versus seven of 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg, with its biggest drops against the U.S.
and Taiwanese dollars. Moody’s Investors Service said last
week’s European Union summit offered few new measures and
doesn’t diminish the risk of credit-ranking revisions. The franc
was little changed against the euro as speculation that the
 Swiss National Bank  will weaken the franc at its quarterly
policy meeting on Dec. 15 retreated.  “It’s not just a risk aversion story today; it’s also
about U.S. economic strength versus European economic
weakness,” said Michael Derks, a market strategist at FXPro
Financial Services Ltd. in  London . There are “slightly
diminished prospects for the SNB meeting, with the market
seeming less convinced of aggressive SNB action,” he said.  The franc was 1.3 percent weaker against the dollar at
93.47 centimes at 4:42 p.m. London time. It traded at 1.2351 per
euro from 1.2358 at the end of last week.  European leaders unveiled a blueprint last week for a
fiscal accord to save the euro, adding 200 billion euros ($267
billion) to a bailout fund and tightening rules to curb future
debts.  Negative  interest rates  and  capital controls  “are issues
which are being examined” by a Swiss government committee
looking at ways to counter the currency’s strength, Finance
Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said Dec. 7.  Even as the SNB weakened the currency, the franc has
appreciated 3.8 percent in the past year, the second-best
performer after the Japanese yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  