-- 
UN Security Council Urged to Act After Syria Death Toll Is Raised to 5,000

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-12-13T15:20:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/syria-death-toll-raised-to-5-000-by-un-rights-head-as-council-asked-to-act.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
faced new calls to intervene in Syria after the UN’s top human-
rights official raised the civilian death toll in the country to
more than 5,000 and said President Bashar al-Assad’s government
should be investigated for crimes against humanity.  UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay told the
15-member body in New York yesterday that the situation in Syria
was “intolerable,” and asked that “gross violations”
committed by Assad’s security forces be referred to the
International Criminal Court. “Ruthless repression” may soon
plunge Syria into “civil war,” she said in prepared remarks.  Pillay said the number of deaths probably exceeds 5,000.
Her estimate from the start of the uprising in mid-March until
Dec. 9 had been of more than 4,000. At least 23 civilians died
today, most of them in the northern province of Idlib, where
army defectors then killed seven members of the security forces,
Rami Abdel Rahman the head of the U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory
for Human Rights , said by phone today. One of the civilians died
as a result of torture, he said.  “It’s a situation of kill or be killed,” Patrick Seale, a
biographer of Bashar’s late father, former President Hafez al- Assad, said today by phone from  London . “They are desperately
trying to crush the uprising because they recognize it is
gathering momentum with external support.”  Tensions With  Turkey   The uprising has also stoked tension with neighboring
Turkey, where thousands of Syrians had fled to escape the
violence. Syrian border guards in Idlib, near Turkey, clashed
yesterday with an “armed terrorist group” of 15 men trying to
infiltrate the country and killed two of them, the state-run
Syrian Arab News Agency reported today.  “I am really shocked about what I heard about the
atrocities in Syria,” German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle 
told reporters in New York after being briefed by Pillay. “It
is necessary for those countries in the  Security Council  that
are still hesitating to change their mind.”  Efforts by the U.S. and  Europe  to respond to Assad’s
actions against dissenters have been repeatedly blocked by
Russia and  China  in the UN. They used their vetoes to stop an
Oct. 4 resolution that sought to pressure Assad to stop killing
protesters.  “The world is starting to match its disapproval of Syria’s
crackdown with concrete steps to bring it to an end,”  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN, said in a message on
Twitter. “Past time for UN Security Council to do the same.”  ‘Range Of Options’  Britain’s ambassador to the UN, Mark Lyall Grant, said
western nations will consider a “range of options” on  Syria ,
stressing the need to “move in lockstep” with the  Arab League .  The league on Dec. 3 ordered a freeze on the assets of 19
Syrian officials, a ban on their travel and a reduction in
flights to Syria if the government refuses to admit
international monitors and release political prisoners.  The sanctions against the Assad government add to the
economic impact of the unrest. Syria’s $60 billion economy,
which grew 5.5 percent in 2010, may shrink 2 percent this year,
the  International Monetary Fund  said, while the  Institute of
International Finance  said the figure would be at least 5
percent. The government expects growth of 1 percent, Finance
Minister Mohammad Al-Jleilati said in September.  Civil War  Russia stood by a Soviet-era ally to whom it sells weapons.  “This push for civil war must be reverted,” Russia’s UN
envoy,  Vitaly Churkin , told reporters yesterday in  New York ,
declining to acknowledge Pillay’s new estimate of Syrian
casualties. “We saw some key members of the Security Council
switch gears and turn into regime-change mode. We think this is
very dangerous.”  Russia was one of four countries in the 47-member UN Human
Rights Council in Geneva to oppose a Dec. 2 call to action by
“all UN relevant bodies” to respond to the “gross violations
of human rights” by the Syrian government. The trigger for the
censure was a Nov. 23 report by a commission of inquiry that
detailed “gross violations of human rights,” including the
killing of 307 children and accounts of sexual abuse of minors.  Fatou Bensouda, who will take over in June as the chief
prosecutor of the  International Criminal Court , said yesterday
that while she was “deeply concerned” about the situation in
Syria, the court can’t act without a referral from the Security
Council because Syria didn’t sign up to the Rome statute that
set up the tribunal.  War Crimes Court  The world’s top war crimes court, created in 2002, indicted
Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  in June on charges of crimes
against humanity. He was captured and killed in  Libya  in October
after months of fighting backed by a NATO air campaign.  In Syria, security forces killed at least nine people
yesterday in Homs and Idlib, the Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights said. More than 76 people died in the previous three
days, Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab Organization for Human
Rights, said in a phone interview from Syria.  Heavy clashes took place between the army and defectors in
the southern province of Daraa, according to the Observatory.  “The opposition is also getting much more armed and more
menacing and it is really slipping down to into a hell of a
civil war -- that’s the real danger,” Seale said.  Arab League foreign ministers will discuss Syria on Dec. 17
in Cairo,  Egypt ’s state-run Middle East News Agency reported,
citing an unidentified diplomat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the  United Nations  at   fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 