-- 
U.K. House Prices Will Remain Little Changed Next Year, Halifax Forecasts

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-12-12T12:15:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/u-k-house-prices-will-remain-little-changed-next-year-halifax-forecasts.html
U.K.  house prices  will remain little
changed next year as the balance between weak demand and a
shortage of supply leaves the market without direction,
according to Halifax.  Values will  rise or fall  by no more than 2 percent next
year, the Lloyds Banking Group Plc mortgage-lending unit said in
an e-mailed statement today. Prices have slipped 0.7 percent
this year, according to Halifax’s monthly index.  Bank of England  officials kept their benchmark  interest
rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent this month, helping to keep
mortgage costs low. While a long-term shortage of properties
will also support values, a faltering economic recovery, rising
unemployment and pressure on household finances will curb demand
for real estate, Halifax said.  “There is currently considerable uncertainty regarding the
prospects for the U.K. economy,” Halifax economist  Martin Ellis 
said in the statement. “Prices are again likely to end the year
at levels close to where they begin with the market continuing
to lack any real direction.”  Britons’ confidence in the housing market has fallen,
according to a Halifax report published on Nov. 1, showing a
gauge of home-price expectations fell to minus 2 from 9 in
April. The Centre for Economics and Business Research cut its
forecast for 2012 home-price inflation last month to 1.6 percent
from 2.4 percent. It also said that while a shortage of
properties will help push up values, that will happen “only
slowly.”  Uncertain Outlook  “The outlook for both the economy and  house prices  is
particularly uncertain” and the Bank of England won’t raise its
 key interest rate  until at least 2013, Halifax said today.  Further ahead, prices will be bolstered by fact that the
number of properties being built fell during the financial
crisis, exacerbating a “long-standing deficit” of new houses,
it said.  That imbalance “should help to support house prices over
the medium and longer terms,” Ellis said. “Nonetheless, with
the ratio of house prices to earnings still above its long-term
average, any price growth is likely to remain weak over the
coming few years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  