-- 
U.S. Growth Decoupling From Treasuries Means Record Low Yields to JPMorgan

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-12-12T18:31:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/u-s-growth-decoupling-from-treasuries-means-record-low-yields-to-jpmorgan.html
The strengthening U.S. economy is
proving no deterrent to the biggest rally in Treasuries since
2008, and America’s largest bank says it may get even better for
bond investors.  U.S. government debt  has returned 8.9 percent this year,
including reinvested interest, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show. That compares with the 1.8 percent gain in the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index of stocks when dividends are
included. The rally in Treasuries accelerated since October even
as reports showed improvements in everything from  consumer
confidence  to jobless claims to manufacturing.  While government debt usually suffers as a strengthening
economy spurs inflation and encourages investors to take bigger
risks with their money, this recovery has been different because
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has elevated the stress in the
global financial system, bolstering demand for the safest
assets. Strategists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. say  10-year Treasury 
yields, which ended last week at 2.06 percent, may fall toward
the record low of 1.67 percent by the end of March.  “As the concern around the  euro zone  continues to worsen,
the money is flowing into the U.S.,” Terry Belton, the global
head of fixed-income strategy at New York-based JPMorgan, the
biggest bank by assets, said in a Dec. 7 telephone interview.
“Even though U.S. Treasuries are rich, at least you know what
you have when you buy them, as they are dollar denominated.”  Dollar Appreciation  The dollar has appreciated 8.5 percent since its low this
year on Aug. 1, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, which measure the currency’s performance against the
euro, yen and seven of its other major developed market peers.  Cumulative outflows from the euro last week were twice the
average in the same period last year, according to Bank of  New
York  Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank, with more
than $26 trillion in assets under administration. The firm
doesn’t provide specific figures.  “Europe is the tail wagging the dog,” Dominic Konstam,
head of interest-rate strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York,
one of the 21 primary dealers of U.S. government securities that
trade with the  Federal Reserve , said in a Dec. 7 telephone
interview. The European crisis has led traders to price in more
risk to measures of health in the financial system which
“haven’t gone away” even with efforts of policy makers, he
said.  Falling Yields  Yields  on 10-year notes rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, last week to 2.06 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The benchmark 2 percent security
due November 2021 rose 14/32, or $4.38 per $1,000 face amount,
to 99 29/32. The yield was 4 basis points lower at 2.02 percent
as of 1:29 p.m. New York time today.  Yields have fallen from 2.42 percent in October and are
below the average of 6.83 percent since 1980 as  Europe ’s debt
crisis, which led to the bailouts of  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal , threaten to engulf  Italy  and  Spain .  Yields  on 10-year
bonds of Italy, which has more than $2 trillion of debt, ended
last week at 6.36 percent, up from the low this year of 4.52
percent in February and above the average of 4.46 percent since
2000.  The  European Central Bank  cut its main interest rate twice
since early November, to 1 percent from 1.5 percent, and the
region’s leaders unveiled a plan last week for a closer fiscal
union to save their single currency. They agreed to add 200
billion euros ($267 billion) to their rescue fund and to tighten
rules to curb future debt. They accelerated the start of a 500
billion-euro rescue fund to next year and reduced demands that
bondholders share in losses from rescues.  Swap-Yield Correlation  Even with the moves, two-year  interest-rate  swap spreads, a
measure of stress in the financial system, ended last week
little changed at about 42 basis points. That’s more than 50
percent greater than its average this year.  The 120-day correlation between changes in the spread and
the 10-year yield reached negative 0.5 this quarter, the highest
since Greece sought a bailout in August 2010. Correlations of
one mean assets move in lock stop, and negative one signal they
move in the opposite direction. As recently as the first
quarter, when Treasuries lost 0.14 percent, the correlation was
zero.  “In the environment that we’re in, which is fear of
Europe, those fears are overwhelming any movement in the
economy,”  Thomas Roth , a senior trader in New York at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc., said in a Dec. 8 telephone
interview.  Growth in the euro area economy will probably slow to 0.5
percent next year from 1.6 percent in 2011, while the U.S.
likely will accelerate to 2.19 percent from 1.8 percent,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Fed Steps  After a July 29 Commerce Department report showed the
economy expanded at a 0.4 percent pace from January to March and
at a 1.3 percent rate in the following three months, slower than
previously reported, the Fed took steps to spur growth.  Policy makers led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke pledged on
Aug. 9 that the central bank would hold its  target rate  for
overnight loans between banks at about zero for at least the
next two years and said Sept. 21 they would extend maturities of
the Fed’s Treasury  holdings  by purchasing $400 billion of long-
term debt and selling an equal amount of shorter-term
securities. That was after buying $2.3 trillion of government
and mortgage securities from November 2008 through June 2011.  Manufacturers are now more optimistic about sales, spending
and hiring for next year than service companies, a sign
factories will remain at the forefront of the expansion,
according to the Institute for Supply Management. Purchasing
managers anticipate sales will grow 5.5 percent next year and
capital investment will increase 1.9 percent, the semiannual
forecast from the Tempe, Arizona-based group showed on Dec. 6.  Yield Forecasts  Labor Department figures on Dec. 8 showed weekly  jobless
claims  fell to the lowest level since February. A day later, the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment rose to 67.7 for December, a six-month high,
from 64.1 at the end of November.  Strategists forecasting falling yields are in the minority.
The median estimates of 64 economists surveyed by Bloomberg is
for 10-year rates to rise to 2.19 percent next quarter, 2.35
percent by the end of June, 2.5 percent in the third quarter and
2.6 percent a year from now.  Even if those estimates prove accurate, yields would still
hold below their average of 3.19 percent in 2010, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That would help the administration of U.S.
President  Barack Obama  finance a $1.3 trillion  budget deficit .
Interest expense on  U.S. debt  totaled 2.7 percent of gross
domestic product in fiscal 2011 ended Sept. 30.  ‘Breaking Point?’  The economy is “not strong enough to generate a big move
up in yields given the fear that’s out there,” said Roth at
Mitsubishi UFJ.  Macroeconomic Advisers LLC cut its estimate on Dec. 2 for
U.S. growth in the first half of 2012 to 1.9 percent, from 2.2
percent a month earlier, citing the negative “spillover”
effects of the euro zone crisis.  “We have a financial and banking crisis in the euro
zone,” Lawrence Meyer, a senior managing director in  Washington 
at Macroeconomic Advisers and a former Fed governor, said in a
telephone interview on Dec. 6. “The questions now are ‘Will it
get worse?’ ‘How much worse?’ and ‘Will it get to a breaking
point?’”  Dollar Demand  European bank demand for dollars remains about the highest
since October 2008 even after central banks reduced the cost of
emergency funds by half a percentage point on Nov. 30.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, was 122 basis points
to 126 basis points below the euro interbank offered rate in
 London . That’s the most expensive since Dec. 5. The cost rose on
Dec. 9 on concern the measures won’t stem the region’s debt
crisis.  “The longer that Europe muddles, the more people will fear
you’ll have some sort of disorderly breakdown,” Thomas Girard,
a bond fund manager in a group with $115 billion in assets at
New York Life Investment Management in New York, said in a Dec.
7 telephone interview.  The risks range from  bank failures  to a country leaving the
euro currency, he said. “All of those things have the effect of
putting downward pressure on Treasury yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  