-- 
Treasuries Gain After EU Summit

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-12-12T16:32:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/u-s-five-to-30-year-yield-difference-is-one-basis-point-from-month-high.html
Treasuries  rose after Moody’s
Investors Service said it will review ratings for all European
Union countries, citing a failure to produce “decisive”
measures to end the region’s debt crisis at a summit last week.  Longer-term U.S. debt gained as Italian and Spanish
sovereign bonds led declines among higher-yielding European
sovereign debt.  Germany ’s top central banker damped bets the
 European Central Bank  will extend its role to help end the
crisis. U.S. sales of notes, bonds and inflation-linked debt
over the next two weeks will probably total $177 billion, the
largest concentration of duration supply ever, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “There’s concern that there was no real decisiveness about
 Europe  over the weekend,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S.
government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based
brokerage for institutional investors. “That’s caused selling
in peripheral debt, and it’s leading to buying in Treasuries.”  Yields on U.S. 30-year bonds fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 3.05 percent at 11:30 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities maturing in November 2041 increased 1 1/8, or $11.25
per $1,000 face amount, to 101 15/32. The yields climbed eight
basis points last week and 11 basis points the week before that.  Ten-year note  yields slid six basis points to 2.01 percent,
compared with the record low of 1.67 percent reached Sept. 23.  ‘Where’s the Beef?’  “It’s still very much a crisis,” said  David Ader , head of
government-bond strategy at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT
Capital Group LLC. “There’s a bit of a statement in the wake of
the EU summit. People are saying, ‘Where’s the beef?’ There
really isn’t that much there.”  Italian 10-year note yields climbed as much as 43 basis
points today to 6.79 percent, the highest level since Dec. 1,
before paring losses to 6.54 percent as the ECB was said to buy
the nation’s securities. Spanish 10-year rates rose as much as
32 basis points to 6.07 percent, also the highest level since
Dec. 1, before slipping to 5.89 percent.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann told the Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung that while a European agreement on
Dec. 9 to limit budget deficits represents “progress,” the
onus is on governments rather than the ECB to resolve the crisis
with financial backing. The interview was published yesterday.  The summit accord is “insufficient,” Mohamed El-Erian,
who is Pacific Investment Management Co.’s co-chief investment
officer along with  Bill Gross , said in an interview with the
French newspaper  Les Echos .  U.S. Debt Returns  U.S. government debt  has returned 8.9 percent this year,
including reinvested interest, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show. That compares with the 1.8 percent return on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index when dividends are included.  The rally in Treasuries has accelerated since October even
as U.S. reports showed improvements in everything from  consumer
confidence  to jobless claims to manufacturing.  While government debt usually suffers as a strengthening
economy spurs inflation and encourages investors to take bigger
risks with their money, this recovery has been different because
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis has elevated the stress in the
global financial system, bolstering demand for safety.  This week’s  U.S. debt  sales will consist of $78 billion in
notes, bonds and inflation-linked debt in auctions that start
today with an offering of $32 billion of three-year notes. The
Treasury will announce on Dec. 15 how much it plans to raise in
three note offerings starting Dec. 19.  “The only other time in recent memory that the Treasury
held six nominal auctions in consecutive weeks was in April/May
2009, when the market priced in a significant supply
concession,” wrote Terry Belton, head of U.S. debt strategy at
JPMorgan, in a report Dec. 9.  Duration Supply  Duration supply, based on weighting  Treasury securities  by
their sensitivity to changes in yield, increases as the U.S.
sells more long-term debt. The sales planned through Dec. 21 are
equivalent to issuing $114 billion of 10-year notes using this
measure, according to JPMorgan. The firm is one of the 21
primary dealers obliged to participate in auctions.  Volatility in the Treasury market has increased. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE  index , which measure price swings
in Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter options
maturing in two to 30 years, rose on Dec. 9 to 99.9 basis
points, the highest in more than a week, and above the 2011
average of 94 basis points. The gauge reached a high of 117.8
basis points on Aug. 8, three days after S&P lowered the U.S.
credit rating.  The three-year Treasury notes to be sold today yielded 0.36
percent in pre-auction trading, dropping from 0.379 percent at
the prior sale on Nov. 8. The record low for an auction of the
maturities was 0.334 percent on Sept. 12.  Fed Program  The  Federal Reserve ’s $400 billion program to replace
shorter-term debt will reduce rates on longer-dated government
debt, the  Bank for International Settlements  said. Yields on
U.S. Treasuries with more than eight years to maturity may
decrease about 22 basis points, Jack Meaning and Feng Zhu wrote
in the Basel-based BIS’s quarterly report.  The Fed is replacing the shorter maturities with longer-
term debt to cap borrowing costs in a plan it announced in
September. The central bank bought $1.38 billion of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities today due from 2019 through 2041.  Additional stimulus “remains on the table,” Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said after the Fed’s Nov. 2 meeting. Policy
makers on the  Federal Open Market Committee  meet tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  