-- 
FDA Ruling on Generic OTC Plan B Sales to Girls Due Tomorrow

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-12-12T18:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/u-s-fda-will-rule-on-emergency-contraceptives-by-tomorrow-lawyer-says.html
The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  will rule by tomorrow on whether girls under 17
can get generic versions of an emergency contraceptive at
drugstores without a prescription.  The FDA “expects to issue a decision on the citizen
petition on or before Dec. 13,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Scott
R. Landau wrote Dec. 9 to U.S. District Judge Edward R. Korman
in  Brooklyn , New York.  Kathleen Sebelius , the U.S. secretary of health and human
services, last week ordered FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg to
reject an application by  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  to
approve the branded drug, Plan B One-Step, as the first over-
the-counter emergency contraceptive.  Korman is presiding over a 2005 lawsuit by the New York-
based Center for Reproductive Rights to force the FDA to relax
the rules for obtaining generic versions of the drug. The center
wants the Obama Administration held in contempt for ignoring an
order to reconsider the FDA’s rejection of the application. A
hearing on the contempt request is set for tomorrow.  “If they are to follow the court’s order, the FDA must
follow science,” Nancy Northup, president and chief executive
officer of the Center for Reproductive Rights, said in an
e-mailed statement. “Which means finally -- after ten years --
granting the citizen petition to make the generic two-pill
emergency contraceptive available over the counter to women of
all ages.”  Next Choice  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , based in Parsippany,  New
Jersey , makes a generic version of the drug called  Next Choice .  Sebelius, citing potential harm to girls under 17 in her
Dec. 7  memo , overruled the FDA on Petach Tikva, Israel-based
Teva’s request. Hamburg, in a statement on the FDA website, said
she was ready to approve over-the-counter sales based on “well-
supported” and “science-based evidence.”  Plan B One-Step and the generic version are kept behind
pharmacy counters and sold without prescription only to women 17
and older. Younger girls may get the drug with a doctor’s order.
Plan B One-Step reduces pregnancy risk if taken within three
days of sex.  The FDA last week said science requires granting the
petition “for Plan B One-Step, and that’s exactly what the
science requires for the generic drug,” Northup said in her
statement. “The Obama administration has a second chance to
live up to its promise that science will not be overruled by
politics as it was in the  Bush administration .”  Three-Year Debate  The original Plan B was cleared in 1999 for U.S. sales with
a prescription. Barr Pharmaceutical’s application to sell the
pills over the counter in 2003 ignited a three-year debate
between people who wanted more timely access to the drug and
those who argued that it might promote sexual promiscuity among
teenagers. Teva now owns Barr.  The Center for Reproductive Rights sued the FDA in January
2005 over its failure to act on the request for over-the-counter
sales. In 2006, the FDA granted Barr permission to sell the pill
without a prescription only to women 18 and older.  Plan B One-Step is made with levongestrel, an ingredient
found in birth-control pills, and is linked with side effects
that can include nausea, dizziness, changes in menstrual periods
and fatigue.  Sales of Plan B more than doubled when it became available
without prescription to women 18 and older in 2006, Teva said.  The case is Tummino v. Hamburg, 05-cv-366, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 