-- 
Post-Revolt Tunisia Can Alter E-Mail With `Big Brother' Software

-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 
2011-12-12T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/tunisia-after-revolt-can-alter-e-mails-with-big-brother-software.html
In  Tunisia , Big Brother goes by an
alias: Ammar 404.  A play on the “Error 404” message for blocked websites,
Tunisian bloggers dreamed him up as a fictional front man for
the sprawling surveillance state of former ruler Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  Aided directly and indirectly by American and European
suppliers, Ammar 404 took control of virtually all electronic
communication in Tunisia and turned lives upside down -- even
changing the content of e-mails in transit. In this world,
Tunisians of all stripes could never be sure if e-mails arrived
as sent or at all, or who was reading them.  Asma Hedi Nairi, a former  Amnesty International  youth
coordinator, says e-mails she and her friends exchanged were
replaced by messages ranging from random symbols to ads for
rental cars. Opponents of the regime toppled in January’s
revolution received threatening messages such as “you can run
but you can’t hide,” while people with no role in politics
found their correspondence snagged if it inadvertently included
words flagged as critical of the government. Ammar 404 even
damaged reputations by inserting pornographic images in work e-
mails and routing intimate photos onto Facebook, Nairi, 23,
says.  “Ammar 404 was seeing everything,” says Nairi, who is
studying in Tunis for a master’s degree in criminal sciences.  ‘War of Information’  The interference forced her to shut down five e-mail
accounts in the years before the revolution, robbing her of
contact lists and documents. The sexual nature of some
intrusions was especially embarrassing within the country’s
mostly Muslim culture, Nairi says, further chilling the free
flow of political discussion.  “Ammar 404 is more dangerous than any policeman in the
street,” she says. “It was a war of information.”  Tunisia’s surveillance capabilities put it at the forefront
of a technological arms race in which repressive regimes are
gaining increasing power to monitor -- and manipulate --
citizens’ electronic activities.  The review of Tunisian surveillance draws a rare blueprint
of a totalitarian nation’s monitoring apparatus, and is part of
a Bloomberg News  investigation  across the region that reveals
how governments use Western surveillance technology to track
dissidents.  In  Syria , an Italian company pulled the plug on an Internet
monitoring system after Bloomberg reported the project was in
the works as the death toll of protesters mounted. Iran
purchased European gear to track citizens’ locations even after
a crackdown surrounding the contested 2009 elections. And in
Bahrain, police interrogated activists using text-messages
intercepted with European surveillance equipment. Egypt, Yemen
and Syria purchased the same interception gear, the
investigation found.  Largely Unregulated  The export of surveillance gear is largely unregulated, and
interception capabilities are standard in most communications
systems around the world, intended for use by  law enforcement .
Neither the U.S. nor the European Union bars exports of
monitoring technology to Tunisia.  Tunisia is a model of what could await the rest of the
world if sales of these technologies go unchecked, says Ben
Wagner of the  European University Institute  near Florence,
 Italy , who has published research on Internet governance in
Tunisia.  Ben Ali’s regime deployed the surveillance gear to
demonstrate its power, Wagner says. Changing e-mails into
nonsense, rather than luring dissidents into ambushes, created a
pervasive unease, in which even spam could be perceived as the
work of Ammar 404, he says.  Testing Ground  “It leaves citizens in a persistent state of uncertainty
about the security and integrity of their communications,” he
says.  Western suppliers used the country as a testing ground.
Moez Chakchouk, the post-revolution head of the Tunisian
Internet Agency, says he’s discovered that the monitoring
industry gave discounts to the government-controlled agency,
known by its French acronym ATI, to gain access.  In interviews following Ben Ali’s ouster after 23 years in
power, technicians, activists, executives and government
officials described how they grappled with, and in some cases
helped build, the repressive Wonderland.  Many Responsible  A post-revolution hunt for Ammar 404 shows that while he
is, of course, nobody in particular, many shoulder
responsibility for his deeds. They include the “cyber police,”
the Internet agency that installed the systems, and the
corporate enablers who sold the technology despite growing
international outcries over the government’s human rights
violations.  “I can tell you how it was done,” says Kamel Saadaoui,
46, who ran the Internet agency from 2008 through the
revolution. “Tunisian companies, whether the telecoms or the
Tunisian Internet Agency, have worked with European companies,”
he says during an interview in May, soon after he was promoted
to president of the nation’s telecommunications regulator.  Munich-based  Trovicor GmbH  provided voice and data
interception on cell phones, and Sundby, Denmark-based ETI A/S,
supplied mobile data interception used to reconstruct online
activities, Saadaoui says. ETI systems are capable of tracking
the websites a person visits and logs of e-mail correspondence.  Trovicor, a former unit of  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Nokia Siemens
Networks, didn’t respond to a request for comment. Nokia Siemens
spokesman Ben Roome declined to comment. Siemens referred
questions to NSN.  Deep-Packet Inspection  ETI is a subsidiary of London-based  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,
 Europe ’s biggest defense contractor, which bought ETI in March
for more than $200 million. Sara Hirsch, a London-based
spokeswoman for both companies, said they can’t comment on
specific countries or contracts. Their operations comply with
national laws and their own internal standards, she said.  Saadaoui, who has a master’s degree in computer science
from  Michigan State University , says he helped procure and set
up the system that captured and changed e-mails. It uses a
technique called deep-packet inspection, which peers into the
content of communications and sends suspect e-mails to the
Interior Ministry.  During an hour-long interview in his office at the  National
Telecommunications Agency , he describes a monitoring room with
metal bars on the windows and 20 desks, where staffers review
the e-mails in an array of languages.  “They were able to read why it was blocked and decided
whether it should be re-routed to the network or deleted,” he
says. “Or changed.”  ‘Not Our Job’  Interior Ministry spokesman Hichem Meddeb says his ministry
has no role in surveillance. “It’s not our job to intercept
phone or e-mail or websites,” he says. Security agencies
probably handle such things, he says.  As the capabilities ramped up in 2007, concerns
reverberated among the men and women who monitored the Internet,
Saadaoui says. “The cyber police just wanted to be the police,”
he says. “The political police was something that was imposed on
them.”  After the May interview, Saadaoui didn’t respond to
requests for follow-up interviews, including attempts made
during visits to his office on four consecutive days in
September.  While Saadaoui was open about many details, he said
nondisclosure agreements bar him from naming the companies that
sold two main deep-packet inspection systems: one for blocking
websites, and the other for intercepting e-mails.  Deep-packet inspection goes beyond traditional monitoring
methods such as scanning for names of senders.  Nonsense E-mails  “It’s like intercepting written mail,” says Milton Mueller, an information studies professor at  Syracuse University 
in  New York  who has a two-year National Science Foundation grant
to study the technology.  In Sfax, a port halfway between Tunis and the Libyan
border, human rights lawyer Abdelwaheb Matar noticed in 2008
that e-mails sent by his contacts started arriving as nonsense.
One, in April that year, said, “How would you like to have
dinner? I just bought a new car,” according to copies cited by
Tunisian blogger Malek Khadhraoui that year and confirmed by
Matar.  When clients didn’t get his e-mails, Matar, 55, resorted to
faxing, he says. On a bookshelf in his office, he displays two
Statue of Liberty replicas he bought in New York as a symbol of
the values he defends in his work pursuing cases against
government agencies.  Unspeakable Threat  Matar brings his laptop around to the front of his desk to
show a visitor an e-mail he received on Sept. 26, 2008. He
points to the words, which are too horrible for him to read
aloud. In French, it calls him weak, compares his face to a pile
of excrement, and then threatens, “Every day, I will try to
perforate your anus with a baseball bat.” It then signs off
with a common, profane insult.  The sender of the e-mail was “fdgfjdhjfk fdhfjkhjksdh,”
and Matar is still unsure whether it started as a friendly
message changed in transit, or was simple low-tech harassment.
With Ammar 404, you never knew.  “How does it feel? I don’t know how to describe it,” he
says. “It’s an intimidating aggression.” He now protects his
communications with encryption software.  The cyber-repression was made easier by the physical
structure of Tunisia’s data flow, which runs through just a few
choke points. In broad terms, the system has two distinct parts:
one for intercepting phone-related traffic and one for the
Internet, Saadaoui says.  Palace Monitors  Each phone company taps for voice,  text messages  and other
mobile data, which feed into monitoring posts, mostly at the
Interior Ministry, a person familiar with the system says. Under
Ben Ali, some headphone-wearing operators also sat inside the
presidential palace in Carthage, the person says.  Trovicor and its predecessors, Siemens and Nokia Siemens
Networks, supplied Tunisia’s phone companies with monitoring-
center computers and maintained their ability to feed calls and
data to the listening posts, four people familiar with the sales
through their work for the companies say.  Utimaco Safeware AG , a unit of Abingdon, England-based
Sophos Ltd., supplied systems that helped link those German
monitoring centers to the phone network, a person familiar with
the installations says. London-based  Apax Partners LLP , which
controls Sophos, referred questions to Sophos and Utimaco.  Utimaco General Manager Malte Pollmann says the company
hasn’t sold directly to Tunisia. His products might be in the
country because companies that build phone networks, including
Nokia Siemens, use Oberursel, Germany-based Utimaco’s systems,
Pollmann says. Sophos, the majority shareholder of Utimaco,
directed questions to Pollmann.  Channeling All Traffic  To monitor the Web, the government channels virtually all
computer traffic through the national Internet agency. Its gear
is housed in rooms it controls at Tunisie Telecom buildings in
three Tunis neighborhoods, including Belvedere, near the
capital’s main park, and Kasbah, where the old city and souk
are, Chakchouk says.  “All the international connections are coming to those
sites,” Chakchouk, 36, the agency’s chief since February, says
in an interview at the headquarters in a whitewashed,
bougainvillea-draped villa in a hilly Tunis neighborhood. He
says nondisclosure pacts with vendors bar him from disclosing
their names.  Siphoning Messages  In each of the three telecom rooms, which are about half
the size of a tennis court, a handful of computers known as
“boxes” straddle the data pipelines, Chakchouk says. Their
function is to siphon off communications, mostly by searching
for key words, according to Saadaoui.  “You get all the traffic going through these boxes,”
Saadaoui says.  Once the system flagged a suspect e-mail, a fiber optic
network under the streets of Tunis carried it from the telecom
offices to the Interior Ministry’s operator room, Saadaoui says.  Moez Ben Mahmoud Hassen, a spokesman for Tunisie Telecom,
said the company “denies any possible relation with such
practices.” He stressed that it follows the law and respects the
confidentiality of communications. Asked about the company’s
activities during Ben Ali’s government, he said it was a matter
for the courts and declined to elaborate.  Communications through mobile operator Orascom Telecom
Tunisie, also known as Tunisiana, were not monitored, according
to a statement released by company spokeswoman Fatma Ben Hadj
Ali. The country’s other mobile operator, Orange Tunisia, didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  Politicized Internet  Saadaoui revealed details of Tunisia’s surveillance, he
says, in part because he’d become disillusioned with how Ben
Ali’s regime had politicized the Internet over two decades.  In 1991, a year after graduating from  Michigan State ,
Saadaoui was part of the team that first set up the net in
Tunisia, he says. At the start, it was a research tool, free of
any censorship or surveillance, until the regime grabbed control
in 1996 with the establishment of the ATI, he says.  Dhamir Mannai, a former adviser to state-controlled  Tunisie
Telecom’s  chief executive officer, recalls how in the
freewheeling 1990s he ran his own e-mail servers. “When the
agency was created, I was told to stop,” he says. From that
point on, “Everything goes through that agency, all  Internet
access , and all e-mail, so it’s very easy to monitor.”  View From Inside  As Saadaoui rose through the ranks, he saw from the inside
the regime’s increasing interest and spending on cyber policing.  The effort started with censorship of websites critical of
the government, he says.  Blue Coat Systems Inc. (BCSI)  and  NetApp Inc. (NTAP) ,
both based in Sunnyvale,  California , provided filtering,
Saadaoui says. NetApp, which sells data storage systems,
previously had a unit that makes computers used for  monitoring 
networks. It sold the business to Blue Coat in 2006.  Blue Coat spokesman Steve Schick said the company could
neither comment nor confirm the accuracy of its reported
involvement. A spokeswoman for NetApp said the company declined
to comment.  Then, when dissidents started using e-mail to distribute
the contents of banned sites, Tunisia’s Internet agency added e-
mail surveillance.  “E-mails was a homemade solution,” Saadaoui says.
Tunisian software developers used Postfix, a free, open-source
mail management program, to scan traffic through the mid-2000s,
he says.  Going Shopping  When the network grew with broadband, becoming less
manageable by late 2006, Saadaoui went shopping for more
sophisticated solutions at the  ISS World trade shows , the
marketplace for “lawful interception” gear that meets several
times a year in locations including Dubai, Prague and
 Washington . Some companies, such as ETI, refused to take the
work upgrading Tunisia’s surveillance because the requirements
were so intrusive, Saadaoui says.  As part of the Web blocking, Tunisia paid to use  Santa
Clara , California-based  McAfee Inc (MCAF) .’s SmartFilter product, says
current Internet agency head Chakchouk.  In a statement, McAfee said it is committed to complying
with all export laws and regulations. “Additionally, steps have
been taken by McAfee to safeguard the product and to prohibit
and disable illegal use,” the company said.  Saadaoui says he ended up with two European contractors
that each used deep-packet inspection -- one supplier for
filtering websites and another for capturing e-mails.  Snagging E-Mails  The surveillance system for e-mails became destructive
because communications didn’t show up intact, or arrive at all,
Saadaoui says.  Victims included businesses and professionals unlucky
enough to have a keyword snagged in the system. “They need the
e-mail to arrive quickly and it doesn’t arrive. They lose money.
They lose image. They lose credibility,” Saadaoui says.  In 2008, activists noticed something was wrong, and
conducted experiments to demonstrate Ammar 404 had employed new
tools. Former political prisoner Abdallah Zouari teamed up with
Tunisian blogger Sami Ben Gharbia.  The men’s locations made their  test  possible: Ben Gharbia
was based in the Netherlands, where he is the advocacy director
of Global Voices, an online community promoting free speech.
Zouari lived in internal exile in southern Tunisia.  Testing the System  They logged onto Zouari’s account and simultaneously viewed
his incoming correspondence, including one from the Tunisnews
online newsletter with headlines about an imprisoned journalist.
In the Netherlands, the e-mail appeared untouched. In Tunisia,
the same message said, “If you want to increase your
performance, try this and let us know. Regards,” a screenshot
of the 2008 e-mail shows.  Zouari, 56, a rotund man who sports a callus on his bald
forehead from regular use of a prayer rug, is now a leader of
the Ennahda Islamist party, which won the most seats in
October’s first post-revolution election. He says during an
interview in Tunis that he suffered from changed and blocked e-
mails for years.  “They did it even with our own families, our friends, far
from politics,” he says.  ‘Personal Secrets’  “The most important thing for me was the personal
secrets,” he says, rubbing his hands together. “You have a
political life, but also a personal life -- money, family
relations, solving each others’ problems.”  By 2010, it became a contest as Tunisians increasingly
employed encryption the packet inspection couldn’t crack.
Communications on Facebook boomed, and the regime demanded
better tools, Saadaoui says. The same European contractor that
provided e-mail surveillance signed a deal to add monitoring of
social networks, he says.  It was too late. The supplier hadn’t yet delivered the
solution when the “Facebook revolution” crested in January.  The government’s last-ditch attempts to quell online
organizing included hacking and password-stealing attacks by Ben
Ali’s regime, outside the purview of the Internet agency,
Saadaoui says.  Slim Amamou, a blogger who was arrested during the uprising
and briefly became a minister for youth and sport after the
revolution, says the presidential palace and ruling party
orchestrated the final cyber attacks.  Hack Attacks  “When needed, they contracted foreign hackers for access
to hack opponents and dissidents,” he says.  In the end, the regime couldn’t overcome a revolution that
stayed one step ahead of the cyber police.  Today, Chakchouk, the new head of Tunisia’s Internet
authority says he’s working to dismantle Ammar 404, and turned
off the mass filtering, he says. Now he’s locked in legal
battles over court orders to block specific Web pages.  On Saturday, May 7, he and his team pulled an all-nighter
to set the filtering equipment to block a single Web page to
comply with a military court’s demand related to a defamation
complaint. The following Tuesday, still looking tired, Chakchouk
says it took so long because they were figuring out how to
replace the page with a message explaining the blockage --
rather than the customary Error 404.  Since the revolution, Chakchouk has spoken at conferences
around the world, decrying censorship. Yet he won’t say much
about surveillance. For now, the packet inspection boxes are
still on the network.  “We tried to understand the equipment and we’re still
doing that,” he says. “We’re waiting for the new government to
decide what to do with it.”  -- With assistance from Ben Elgin in  San Francisco  and Jihen
Laghmari in Tunis. Editors: Marcia Myers, Melissa Pozsgay  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  