-- 
Turkey’s Faster-Than-Expected 8.2% Growth Defies Central Bank: Economy

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-12-12T16:24:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/turkey-s-faster-than-expected-8-2-growth-defies-central-bank-economy.html
Turkey’s economy expanded a faster-
than-expected 8.2 percent in the third quarter, while the 12-
month  current-account deficit  climbed to a record, defying
central-bank attempts to engineer a slowdown and narrow the gap.  The current-account gap in October was $4.2 billion, taking
the 12-month cumulative deficit to $78.6 billion, the central
bank in Ankara said today. That’s about 10 percent of  gross
domestic product , which expanded for an eighth consecutive
quarter in the three months to September. The pace of growth in
the third quarter was exceeded only by  China  among the Group of
20 major economies.  Governor Erdem Basci said today that the economy is posed
for a “soft landing” as monetary tightening in October takes
effect. The bank is tracking inflation and may squeeze further
by restricting open-market funding to banks, he said. The
 International Monetary Fund  said in a Dec. 7 report that bank’s
policies aren’t working and the economy now risks a sharp
slowdown.  Recent data paint a mixed picture of the global economy.
While a report on Dec. 9 showed German exports fell and  India ’s
government said today that output shrank for the first time in
more than two years, U.S. consumer confidence rose to a six-
month high in December, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment.  ‘Growing Too Fast’  “The Turkish economy was growing too fast for its own good
in the first three quarters and we’re going to have to see a
major adjustment,”  Inan Demir , chief economist for Finansbank
AS, said in a telephone interview. “Given that we began the
year with an agenda of reducing growth, our forecast of 8.3
percent for the full year is not a successful outcome.”  Yields on  two-year benchmark bonds  rose 9 basis points, or
0.09 percentage points, to 10.40 percent at the 5:30 p.m. close
of trade in Istanbul. The main ISE National 100 share index fell
2.6 percent to 52,444.07. The currency declined 1.4 percent to
1.8677 per dollar.  The economy expanded 1.7 percent on a  seasonally adjusted 
basis from the previous three months, the fastest rate this
year, the statistics agency said. Annual growth adjusted for
working days was 7.7 percent in the third quarter compared with
8.3 percent in the second.  China’s economy  expanded 9.1 percent in the third quarter,
while  Germany , which is embroiled in Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis and is Turkey’s biggest trade partner, grew 2.6 percent.  ‘Responses Were Insufficient’  “Policy responses were insufficient to prevent the
development of a large current-account deficit and high
inflation,” the IMF said in the report. “Monetary policy
shifted to an unconventional mix of  reserve requirements , the
interest-rate corridor, and the policy rate, which has not
demonstrated it can deliver price -- or financial --
stability.”  Now, the threat is that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
cut demand for Turkish exports and reduce the inflows needed to
finance the current account, leading to a plunge in growth
rates. Almost half of  Turkey ’s exports go to the European Union.  The economy is on course to meet the government’s target of
4 percent growth next year, Basci said in  London  today. Still,
there are downside risks from the European debt crisis and the
bank has the instruments to respond quickly to any shift in the
outlook, he said after a meeting with economists.  “Consumer-loan growth rates right now are seen at and
below 10 percent and overall loan growth is seen at below 20
percent,” Basci said. “If they remain at these levels,
probably we will have less of a problem on the external side in
the coming months. But if they are below that or above that, we
are ready to tighten or ease  monetary policy  within a matter of
days.”  European Leaders  A summit of European leaders in Brussels last week, which
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  called the last chance to
rescue the euro from the two-year debt crisis, set a March
deadline to flesh out new fiscal rules.  The current account is the broadest measure of
international trade, encompassing goods, services and
investment.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. today forecast a technical
recession -- two consecutive quarters of contraction -- for
Turkey in late 2011 and early 2012. The economy is expected to
expand 0.5 percent next year, Goldman said.  “We forecast a rebound in the second half of 2012, on the
back of some relative normalization in the euro-zone,” Goldman
economists including Ahmet Akarli in London said in an e-mailed
report. “But the high base effects coming from 2011 mean that
GDP growth on average will probably fall sharply in 2012.”  Further Steps  Basci took over the central bank in April and began using
reserve requirements to slow bank lending to consumers. In
October he added to those steps by doubling the rate at which
banks borrow from the central bank to as high as 12.5 percent.
He has kept the  benchmark one-week repo rate  at a historic low
of 5.75 percent since he cut it in August, saying  Europe ’s debt
problems threatened growth.  “There is very little convincing evidence that the central
bank and government measures thus far are engineering much of a
slowdown,” Tim Ash, head of emerging-market research at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. in London, said in an e-mailed
comment. While the economy’s produces “Asia-style” growth
rates, “the big difference is that in Turkey’s case a large
weight is still being driven by dis-saving as reflected in the
wide current-account deficit,” he said.  Growth slowed from 8.8 percent in the second quarter, the
statistics office in Ankara said on its website today. It was
forecast at 6.3 percent, according to the median estimate of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There’s got to be some slowdown, although so far the
signs of it have been meager,” said  Yarkin Cebeci , Istanbul-
based economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by phone.
Forecasts of a recession, defined as two consecutive quarters of
quarterly contraction, are “reasonable because the monetary
tightening was real and global growth prospects are worsening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Bentley  in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 