-- 
Turkish Economy Grows More-Than-Expected 8.2%

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-12-12T08:58:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/turkish-economy-grows-more-than-expected-8-2-.html
Turkey ’s  economy  grew a faster-than-
expected 8.2 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier,
as central bank efforts to squeeze credit growth failed to damp
the expansion.  Growth slowed from 8.8 percent in the second quarter, the
statistics office in Ankara said on its website today. The
economy was expected to grow 6.3 percent, according to the
median estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The Turkish economy continues to show Asian-style growth
dynamics,” Tim Ash, chief of emerging-market research at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in an e-mailed report to
clients. “There is very little convincing evidence that the
central bank and government measures thus far are engineering
much of a slowdown.’  The central bank has been increasing  reserve requirements 
for lenders, saying credit expansion needs to slow to an annual
25 percent from about 40 percent earlier this year. The bank has
also warned that the debt crisis in  Europe , which buys about
half of Turkey’s exports, poses a risk to growth. So far
 industrial production  has held up, expanding at an average of
6.5 percent annually in the third quarter compared with 7
percent in the second, though  consumer confidence  declined in
the period.  Bond Yields Rise  Yields  on two-year benchmark bonds rose two basis points to
10.33 percent at 10:45 a.m. in Istanbul. The lira and stocks
pared earlier losses. The main  ISE National 100 (XU100)  share index fell
0.5 percent to 53,587.91 after sliding as much as 0.7 percent.
The currency declined 0.3 percent to 1.8475 per dollar.  The economy expanded 1.7 percent on a  seasonally adjusted
basis  from the previous three months, the statistics agency
said. Annual growth adjusted for working days was 7.7 percent in
the third quarter compared with 8.3 percent in the second.  There will “probably be a further slowdown over the coming
few quarters, as final domestic demand loses further momentum
and inventory levels pick up,” Goldman Sachs economists
including Ahmet Akarli in  London  said in an e-mailed report
before today’s figures were released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Bentley  in Istanbul at 
 Mbentley3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 