-- 
Branson Seeks to Outflank BA With Rival Bid for Lufhansa BMI Unit in U.K.

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-12-12T10:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/virgin-atlantic-challenges-british-airways-with-bid-for-lufthansa-s-bmi.html
Richard Branson ’s Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. is seeking to trump a bid from arch-rival British
Airways for  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s BMI unit after persuading
the German carrier to grant due diligence for a rival offer.  The books of Castle Donington, England-based BMI have been
opened to both carriers and their proposals have an equal chance
of success, Lufthansa spokeswoman Claudia Lange said today.  Lufthansa has been seeking a buyer for BMI after failing to
revive an airline added under duress in 2009 when owner  Michael Bishop  exercised a  put option . While selling to BA parent
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, which announced an
agreement in principle on Nov. 4, might raise more cash, it
would hand BMI’s lucrative operating positions at  London
Heathrow  to one of the German carrier’s biggest competitors.  “They’ll be balancing strategic competitive questions
against monetary value,” said Andrew Fitchie, a London-based
Investec Securities analyst with a “hold” rating on Lufthansa
and a “sell” on IAG. “Virgin might be seen strategically from
Lufthansa’s perspective as a better place to sell the slots.”  Lufthansa’s was trading 4 percent lower at 8.75 euros as of
10:54 a.m. in Frankfurt, with London-based IAG -- formed in
January from a merger of BA with  Spain ’s Iberia -- price down
3.3 percent at 148.30 pence. Virgin Atlantic is closely held.  Too Dominant  Virgin has agreed a term sheet with Lufthansa and is in
talks “on the next stage of the purchase,” it said today, adding
that BA is already too dominant at Heathrow and repeating calls
for antitrust authorities to examine the IAG offer.  BMI would bring access to the 8.5 percent of takeoff and
landing slots at capacity-constrained Heathrow,  Europe ’s busiest
airport, which the successful bidder could deploy as it saw fit.  British Airways is already the No. 1 operator at Heathrow
and took its holdings with sister company Iberia to 43 percent
with the purchase of six BMI slots in September. Virgin is its
biggest long-haul competitor, with 3 percent of positions.  Virgin said on the day that IAG announced its outline deal
to buy BMI that it had made an approach of its own. Lufthansa
signed an agreement allowing a bid from the Crawley, England-
based company to go forward on Nov. 29, it said today.  Branson, who owns 51 percent of Virgin, has been chasing a
tie-up with BMI -- formerly British Midland -- for more than a
decade and failed to reach an agreement with Bishop on several
occasions. The billionaire has also been seeking an alliance
partner and possible investment for Virgin after BA won
regulatory approval to deepen an accord with  American Airlines .  Poor Timing  Lufthansa hopes to conclude a sale of BMI by the end of the
first quarter, spokeswoman Lange said, declining to provide the
price for either the Virgin Atlantic or IAG offer.  “The timing isn’t ideal,” Investec’s Fitchie said. “You’re
expanding at Heathrow when the economic climate isn’t conducive
to adding capacity. You could see a Virgin offer being
attractive because it keeps it in the Star family. But this
could also be a way of forcing the IAG price up.”  Virgin is 49 percent owned by  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , a
partner of Lufthansa in the  Star Alliance , though the U.K.
carrier is not itself a member of the grouping.  BMI had an operating loss of 154 million euros ($205
million) in the first nine months, widening from 90 million
euros a year earlier, Lufthansa said Oct. 27, adding that the
unit is unlikely to match 2010’s full-year sales and earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in  Frankfurt  at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  