-- 
Vivendi Lenders Raise Stakes in Loan Talks: Corporate Finance

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-12-12T17:12:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/vivendi-lenders-raise-stakes-in-loan-talks-corporate-finance.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , owner of the world’s
largest music and video-game companies, suffered a setback in
its plan to obtain a 1 billion-euro ($1.34 billion) credit line
as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis leaves no haven in core
countries.  Lenders are demanding the Paris-based company pay an
interest rate of 90 basis points more than the euro interbank
offered rate, above the 75 basis points Vivendi offered,
according to three people with knowledge of the talks, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private.  European companies have raised a record $503.9 billion of
loans this year to refinance debt amid growing concern that the
cost of funds for all nations will rise further as they struggle
to reduce debt loads after  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  needed
to be bailed out. The average interest margin banks charge
investment-grade companies in  France  for loans jumped to 60
basis points from an average of 48.8 in the first eight months
of the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Banks are pretty constrained in their access to liquidity
and they are passing that on to their clients,” Roger Francis,
a London-based analyst at Mizuho Securities, said Dec. 9 in a
telephone interview. “They wouldn’t be terribly eager to lend
to a big, blue-chip company who wants cheap funding as not only
would it push up their  capital requirements , it’s not very
lucrative lending either.”  Jean-Louis Erneux, a spokesman for  Vivendi , declined to
comment.  Banks Downgraded  BNP Paribas SA,  Societe Generale  SA and  Credit Agricole  SA,
France’s top three banks and Vivendi’s core lenders, had their
credit ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service on Dec. 9, which
cited funding constraints and deteriorating economic conditions
amid Europe’s debt crisis.  Moody’s reduced the long-term debt rating for BNP Paribas
and Credit Agricole by one level to Aa3, the fourth-highest
investment grade. Societe Generale’s rating was lowered to A1,
the fifth highest. Moody’s also cut the standalone assessments
of financial strength of the three banks, while saying there’s a
“very high” chance they will get state support if needed.  Vivendi is under pressure to pay a higher interest margin
and increased fees to banks after the cost of insuring its debt
from default more than doubled to 220 basis points in November
from 88 on Jan. 24, according to CMA prices. The swaps now cost
167 basis points.  Vivendi shares fell 1.7 percent today, closing at 16.61
euros. The stock has declined 17.8 percent this year.  Replacing Lines  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Vivendi is seeking the financing, in part, to replace
existing credit facilities, said the people. A 1 billion-euro
five-year loan signed last year pays an initial interest margin
of 55 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company agreed last month to pay 1.2 billion pounds
($1.88 billion) to acquire the recorded-music assets of EMI
Group, home to artists including Coldplay and Katy Parry. The
purchase is part of Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy ’s
strategy to move the company toward the music business and to
offset slowing growth at mobile-unit SFR.  Vivendi’s credit profile may deteriorate next year before
improving in 2013,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a report on Nov. 16
after announcement of the EMI deal.  Rising Leverage  The company’s debt would jump to almost 2.5 times earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization next year
from 2.2 at the end of 2011, said S&P, which gives Vivendi a
rating of BBB.  “Vivendi’s acquisition of EMI’s recorded music business is
underpinned by the potential cost synergies but regulatory and
execution risks are significant,” Damien Chew, a London based-
analyst at  Fitch Ratings , said in a Nov. 14 report. The purchase
comes at a time when some of its core telecommunications
“businesses are meeting increased competitive pressure and the
group’s financial headroom is already limited,” according to
Fitch, which gives Vivendi a grade of BBB.  Moody’s, which rates the company Baa2, said on Nov. 21 the
EMI deal will “fully exhaust” Vivendi’s debt capacity after a
number of acquisitions this year, including its purchase of a 44
percent stake in SFR in June.  No Escape  Investment-grade companies typically maintain credit lines
to fund day-to-day operations or to back sales of other types of
debt such as commercial paper, which is debt that is generally
due in nine months or less. They don’t usually draw on the
loans.  “There is greater realization that no one is immune to the
crisis and all participants, whether you are a borrower or
lender, have to come to terms with market reality,” Simon Allocca, the London-based head of Loan Markets with Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets, said in an interview. “The cost of loans
have gone up in just a few months in  Europe  and it will continue
to rise given the pressure on banks.”  Vivendi offered to pay a 15 basis-point fee to start
drawing funds under the new credit line it’s seeking, 20 basis
points to use more than one-third, and 30 basis points to use
more than two-thirds, the people said. Banks are demanding 30
basis points to lend one-third and 50 basis points for two-
thirds.  Investment-grade companies in Europe,  Middle East  and
 Africa  are charged 108.7 basis points more than benchmark
lending rates by banks for loans, up from 85 basis points in the
first eight months of the year, Bloomberg data show.  New Blueprint  “Given how fast the situation has deteriorated, there are
very few safe heavens with the U.K. and some of the  Nordic
countries  looking best placed,” said Allocca.  In an effort to contain the crisis, European leaders
unveiled a blueprint last week for a closer fiscal union, adding
200 billion euros to their warchest and tightening rules to curb
future debt. They sped the start of a 500 billion-euro rescue
fund to next year and diluted a demand that bondholders shoulder
losses in rescues.  Vivendi reported third-quarter earnings that exceeded
analysts’ estimates on Nov. 16, boosted by growth in its
Activision Blizzard and GVT Divisions.  Profit reached 685 million euros, excluding one-time gains
and costs for the third quarter, beating the 555 million-euro
average estimate of 13 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
Activision Blizzard reported a 79 percent surge in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and appreciation. GVT,
which provides fixed-line broadband in  Brazil , increased
earnings by 58 percent during the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  