-- 
Volvo Names BP’s Svanberg as Chairman to Replace Schweitzer

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-12-12T09:31:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/volvo-names-bp-s-svanberg-as-chairman-to-replace-schweitzer.html
Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the world’s second-largest
maker of commercial vehicles, named BP Plc chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg to take the same role at the Swedish company and steer
it through a weakening truck market.  Svanberg, who has headed BP since January 2010, will
succeed Louis Schweitzer, the 69-year-old former chief of
Volvo’s biggest shareholder  Renault SA (RNO) , who declined re-
election, the Gothenburg, Sweden-based company said in a
statement today.  The Volvo post would mark a return to Swedish business for
Svanberg, a citizen of the country and former chief executive
officer of Stockholm-based electronics maker  Ericsson AB. (ERICB)  Volvo
in recent months has shifted focus to profitability from growth.
BP,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil company, said last week it would
be happy for Svanberg to serve at both companies.  “This is a great solution,” Christer Gardell, whose
Violet Partners LP is Volvo’s third-largest shareholder by
votes, said in a phone interview.  “Carl-Henric has a strong
record and I have big confidence in him as a businessman.”  Volvo announced a new goal in September that it should be
at the top of the heavy-equipment industry in terms of operating
margins. Volvo, the maker of Mack trucks in  North America  and
Renault trucks in Europe, had an operating margin last year of
6.9 percent of sales, compared with 19 percent for Swedish rival
 Scania AB (SCVB) , the truckmaker with the industry’s highest
profitability, Bloomberg data shows.  Generating Profit  Svanberg’s challenges will include generating profits even
as demand for vehicles weakens. Volvo predicted Oct. 25 the
European heavy-truck market will shrink 10 percent in 2012 from
the 240,000 vehicles forecast for 2011.  Volvo fell as much as 1.05 kronor, or 1.4 percent, to 72.55
kronor and was down 1 krona as of 10:28 a.m. local time in
Stockholm. The stock has plunged 39 percent this year, valuing
the company at 155 billion kronor ($22.8 billion.)  Svanberg’s appointment will be voted on at Volvo’s annual
shareholders meeting on April 4, the truckmaker said.  An ongoing reorganization of Volvo’s truck business along
geographic regions rather than brands should eventually boost
the company’s operating margin by 3 percentage points, Chief
Executive Officer Olof Persson said last month.  Volvo should be able to boost its margins “a few
percentage points,” partly by making sales and administration
more efficient, Gardell said.  Svanberg, contracted to work at London-based BP three days
a week, attracted criticism in the U.S. after the Gulf of Mexico
oil spill last year that cost CEO  Tony Hayward  his job. After a
meeting with President  Barack Obama  at the White House, Svanberg
said BP cares about the “little people” affected by the
disaster.  The trial that will determine BP’s liability in the spill
starts on Feb. 27 in  New Orleans .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  