-- 
Washington’s Elite Gather at New Gallery, Ogle Solidarity Icon

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-12-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/washington-s-elite-gather-at-new-gallery-ogle-solidarity-movement-icon.html
The scene was classic
Washington: diplomats trading gossip and business cards
with journalists over hors d’oeuvres; a lawyer chatting up
a lobbyist between sips of champagne.  Friday night’s art opening not far from the White
House was the launch of a gallery whose founder is trying a
new kind of matchmaking: introducing art that has shaped
history in other countries to policy makers and collectors
in the U.S. capital.  Charles Krause/Reporting Fine Art is the brainchild of
a former foreign correspondent for PBS,  CBS News (CBS)  and the
 Washington Post. (WPO)   In two decades covering revolutions and uprisings
around the world, Krause was struck by the role artists
often played through work that critiqued or influenced
social and political movements swirling around them.  At the center of Krause’s debut show is the arresting
logo created in 1980 for Poland’s Solidarity movement,
which was instrumental in bringing down the country’s
communist regime.  The red-on-white script is unmistakable -- the
letters of “Solidarnosc” pressed together like bodies
forming an unbreakable human chain, holding aloft a Polish
flag in a sign of peaceful defiance.  Behind the iconic image is Jerzy Janiszewski, 59, a
Polish artist exhibiting for the first time in the U.S.  Potent Graffiti  In 1980, he was a 28-year-old graphic-arts graduate in
Gdansk who sympathized with striking shipyard workers. He
wanted to contribute an image to rally the movement, he
recalled in an interview last week.  After thinking of the shipyard’s gate, he settled on
graffiti that demonstrators had painted on walls and pulled
out a single word: Solidarity.  “It suddenly struck me as obvious -- this was the
word,” Janiszewski said. “I wanted the people of the
shipyard to be represented, so I made the letters like
people with their arms linked.”  For Krause, 64, the gallery fulfills a longtime dream
to bring political art from other cultures to an
influential audience in the U.S.  “I am focusing on art that I think is great in its
own right. The fact that there is a social or political
message adds another dimension,” Krause said in an
interview.  Civil Disobedience  Reproduced on posters, mugs, T-shirts and pins sold
overseas to raise money for the anticommunist movement in
Poland, the Solidarity image was adopted as a symbol of
civil disobedience across Eastern Europe until the fall of
 Soviet Union . It has been translated and adapted by
opposition movements around the world, most recently in the
Arab uprisings and by some Tea Party activists in the U.S.
The typeface has come to signal political protest.  Imprints of the Polish Solidarity poster are in the
collections of the Museum of  Modern Art  in  New York  and the
Victoria and Albert Museum in  London .  Janiszewski’s show includes one work that’s not for
sale: his original Solidarity screen print, signed by
protest leaders including  Lech Walesa , later elected
Poland’s president.  There are also numbered original offset prints that
Janiszewski buried in a friend’s back yard for seven years
when he was forced to flee  Poland  after martial law was
imposed in December 1981.  Years later, Janiszewski returned to Poland and asked
Walesa for a meeting to discuss copyright for the image, an
unpleasant encounter in which Walesa angrily refused to
acknowledge his authorship, he said. It ended in a legal
battle, and the artist was eventually compensated.  Tactile Collages  Among the 29 works on display, most are not overtly
political. They include tactile collages made from corners
of cigarette box tops, metro tickets, postmarks and other
scraps -- never-before-displayed mixed-media works that
speak to years of exile and hardship in Paris.  They evoke the disorientation of life as a refugee in
a new city and smoky nights among the Bohemians in Parisian
jazz clubs. The works start at $2,000.  “I think these artists deserve to be valued both in
terms of art history and to have a greater value in terms
of what collectors are willing to pay for it,” said
Krause, who grew up in a home of collectors. In 1960s
 Detroit , his parents bought works by modernist sculptors
Alberto Giacometti and Louise Nevelson. His graduation
present was an Alexander Calder lithograph.  Complexities  While Krause realizes he may have an uphill battle
persuading some of the importance of art with a political
message at its core, he is hoping some collectors will
recognize value on multiple levels.  Mark Kelner , a Washington-based Russian-art dealer who
attended the opening, thinks Krause is on to something.  “The art itself is incredible, but the backstory is
equally powerful,” Kelner said in an interview. “We see
this in Eastern Europe, in totalitarian environments in
Cuba and  China , and the West knows very little about it.
Charles is using his experience in journalism as a
springboard to a larger definition of art.”  Todd Levin , director of  Levin Art Group ,  New York- 
based art advisers, said for the venture to work, the art
has to be visually equal to the message behind it. “Art
and politics are strange bedfellows,” he said. When a work
succeeds both politically and aesthetically, “you’ve got
something really significant.”  “The Graphic and Fine Art of Jerzy Janiszewski: The
Artist Whose Graphic Design Changed History” will be open
for public viewing Dec. 17-18 from noon to 6 p.m., and
through Jan. 29 by appointment. See
 http://www.charleskrausereporting.com/  for details.  (Indira A.R. Lakshmanan is a writer for Bloomberg
News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  