-- 
Water Wranglers Gush With New Oilfield Work to Help Fend Off EPA

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-12-12T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/water-wranglers-gush-with-new-oilfield-work-to-help-fend-off-epa.html
Gary Evans founded his company,
 GreenHunter Energy Inc. (GRH) , to tap into the growing need for
renewable energy. Last year, he saw a bigger opportunity in the
oil and natural-gas business: water.  As local and federal regulators raise questions about
potential pollution from drilling operations, U.S. oil and gas
producers are turning to companies like GreenHunter to improve
their handling of the millions of gallons of fluids involved in
an average well.  An investigation by the  U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency  found evidence of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, in a drinking-water aquifer in  Wyoming , the agency
reported last week.  Water-service companies help manage the chemical-tainted
water that’s a byproduct of drilling and production, cleaning
and recycling it for re-use, and hauling it away for disposal.  “Some of these people couldn’t even spell the word
petroleum -- they developed water treatment for some other
application,” said Steve Jacobs, chief operating officer at
Houston-based Decision Strategies, an oilfield consultant. “Now
they’re realizing, ‘Gosh, there’s a huge market out there called
the oil and gas industry and that’s a great opportunity.’”  Landowner groups in states including  Pennsylvania  and  New
York  say they are concerned that contaminated water can leak
from wells that have been fracked, a method of cracking rock
with high-pressure injections of water, chemicals and sand to
release oil and gas.  Water Disposal  Environmental groups such as the National Resources Defense
Council also are concerned about proper disposal of the
wastewater pumped to the surface with oil and gas -- about 1
million gallons over the life of a well, according to an EPA
estimate.  The EPA’s finding of possible aquifer contamination from
Wyoming fracking operations are “not definitive,” according to
Doug Hock, a spokesman for  Canada ’s  Encana Corp. (ECA) , the owner of
the wells suspected of causing the problem.  The report bolstered calls for tighter regulation of air
and water quality in oil and gas production in the U.S.  “There must be absolutely no more delay in closing the
loopholes that leave our drinking water sources vulnerable to
toxic chemicals,” said Jessica Ennis, a policy associate in 
 Washington  with Earthjustice, an environmental group based in 
 San Francisco .  More Regulations Coming  Stricter rules would probably mean more business for water
recycling companies such as Roanoke, Texas-based Fountain Quail
Water Management LLC, said Chief Operating Officer Brent
Halldorson.  “As these regulations get stronger and stronger, you will
see recycling get more attractive,” he said in an interview.  The EPA is expected to report initial findings next year
from its study of how fracking might affect groundwater, with a
final report due in 2014. The agency also is considering
adopting new rules that will govern how companies dispose of
wastewater from oil and gas wells.  An advisory panel to the U.S. Energy Department said Nov.
10 the industry and government need to do more to protect water
and air from pollution related to gas production.  Managing water in the oilfield is a roughly $50 billion-a-year business in the U.S., according to estimates made by
 Heckmann Corp. (HEK)  a water-services company based in Coraopolis,
Pennsylvania.  Concerns about water management have grown as operators
drill more wells to chase profits from crude prices that have
climbed 134 percent in the past three years. The number of
active  rigs drilling onshore  in the U.S. has more than doubled
to 1,931 since the middle of 2009.  Rising Water Consumption  Total water consumption among energy companies is expected
to almost quadruple to as much as 15 billion gallons a day by
2035 from 4.3 billion in 1995, said Mike Hightower, a researcher
at Sandia National Laboratories who was on the team hired by the
Energy Department for a  2006 study  on the relationship between
energy and water. That’s enough to supply more than 130,000
average households for a year, according to  Texas  Water
Development Board calculations.  States are tightening regulations, too. Pennsylvania
adopted rules in 2010 requiring oil and gas operators to clean
water to near-drinkable quality before depositing it in creeks
and rivers. Producers in the state handled 20 million gallons of
wastewater this year, and that may grow to 60 million gallons
annually as the number of wells increases, said Radisav Vidic, a
professor of engineering at the  University of Pittsburgh .  New Use Limits  In parched Texas, some local jurisdictions this year
approved restrictions on the amount of water used by producers
and other commercial interests after a record drought focused
attention on the volumes consumed by fracking. An average 6.3
million gallons of water are used to frack each well, according
to an Oct. 21 note to investors from Global Hunter Securities.  “Municipalities are less and less likely to draw down
their freshwater resources for the fracking activity,” said
George Kast, CEO of Denver-based Produced Water Solutions Inc.  Increased demand for water treatment and handling also
means rising prices for those services, according to a Nov. 18
note to investors by Robert W. Baird & Co. Producers may be able
to fend off costs and delays associated with stricter regulation
by adopting new technology to reduce water usage and minimize
risks of pollution, said Christine Tezak, an analyst with Baird.  Regulation a ‘Friend’  “We believe regulation is our friend,” Richard Heckmann,
chief executive officer for Heckmann, told investors at a Nov.
16 conference in New York. His four-year-old company has climbed
17 percent since Oct. 3, when it announced a buyer for parts of
its Chinese bottled-water unit and plans to divest the rest in
order to focus solely on water management for the  energy
industry .  The company has increased staffing in its U.S. business to
1,050 workers today from fewer than 30 a year earlier, according
to a Nov. 9 statement.  With the proliferation of water-service startups, the
industry will begin to consolidate as companies take advantage
of the leap in demand for their expertise,  Stephen Trauber ,
global head of energy investment banking at Citigroup, said in a
telephone interview. Trauber expects to see a surge in mergers,
acquisitions and initial public offerings over the next 18
months.  Consolidation Ahead  Larger oilfield-service companies may be buyers as they
build their own water specialties, Trauber said.  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , the world’s largest pressure pumper, is aiming for a 25
percent cut in its use of fresh water by 2015, said Clay Terry,
strategic business manager for the company’s newly formed
 Water Solutions group .  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Ecosphere Technologies Inc. (ESPH)  also
are each using mobile water-recycling units designed to be
hauled from well to well in the oilfield. Ecosphere boosted its
third-quarter revenue almost fourfold to $8.2 million compared
with a year earlier.  “We’re finding that disposal and hauling is really the tip
of the iceberg,” said Jonathan Hoopes, chief operating officer
at GreenHunter. “There really is more business than we can all
satisfy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  