-- 
Wen May Cut China Taxes to Spur Growth at 2012 Economic Planning Session

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-13T06:42:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/wen-may-cut-china-taxes-to-spur-growth-at-2012-economic-planning-session.html
Fitch Ratings  said  China  faces
slower growth in home sales and construction next year and UBS
AG predicted stagnant  exports  as top officials meet in Beijing
for an annual conference to map out economic policies.  Lending to developers will remain tightly controlled as the
government prolongs a campaign to stabilize property prices,
Fitch said in a report today. The slowdown in trade may add
pressure for monetary and fiscal easing, UBS said separately.  China’s leaders, who began meeting in Beijing yesterday,
may cut taxes to spur growth after already reducing banks’
reserve requirements, according to  China International Capital
Corp .,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Barclays Capital . Lower
levies would spur consumption without the bad-debt risks that
were triggered by a record 17.5 trillion yuan ($2.7 trillion) of
lending in 2009 and 2010 that funded infrastructure projects and
spurred real-estate speculation.  “China is no longer able to rely on massive investment in
infrastructure building to stimulate the economy,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist with Societe Generale SA and
the only analyst to accurately forecast China’s growth last
quarter in a Bloomberg News survey. “Tax cuts are
unavoidable.”  Europe ’s debt crisis is cutting demand in China’s biggest
export market. The nation’s economic growth cooled to 9.1
percent last quarter, the least in more than two years, and the
increase in exports in November was the weakest since 2009
excluding seasonal distortions.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slid 1.1 percent as of 2:43
p.m. in  Tokyo  today on concern that more European nations face
rating downgrades.  Trade Slowdown  In the latest sign of a slowdown in global trade,
 Philippine exports  fell in October for a sixth straight month, a
report released in  Manila  showed today. China’s  trade surplus 
may shrink to 2 percent of gross domestic product in 2012 from
an estimate of more than 3 percent this year, Hong Kong-based
UBS economist  Wang Tao  said in an e-mailed note today.  The People’s Bank of China, may this week give loan data
for November, after reports for trade, inflation and industrial
production showed growth weakening. The money supply figures are
not released to any fixed schedule.  Fitch said some smaller builders are “more vulnerable” as
the government maintains property curbs. Housing transactions
declined in 27 out of 35 cities tracked by  Soufun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) 
from Dec. 5-11.  France , Europe  Inflation reports are scheduled in France and the U.K,
along with a measure of business confidence across the euro
zone. In the U.S., retail sales data for November are due, with
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey showing a 0.6
percent gain, up from 0.5 percent in October. Purchases
excluding autos rose 0.4 percent after a 0.6 percent advance,
the survey showed.  In China, the government is wrestling with the aftermath of
past stimulus, including the debt burdens of local-government
investment vehicles. Companies also face rising labor costs,
which contributed to retailer and beermaker  China Resources
Enterprise Ltd. (291)  reporting a decline in profit in the third
quarter.  While the 25-member Politburo last week affirmed an
unchanged “prudent” monetary and “proactive” fiscal stance
for next year, a Nov. 30 cut in banks’ reserve requirements
indicated a shift toward a bigger emphasis on supporting growth.  Inflation is moderating after reaching a three-year high of
6.5 percent in July.  Consumption taxes and corporate income levies may be cut,
while taxes may be increased for some industries to achieve
energy-saving and emission targets, according to Peng Wensheng,
an economist for CICC who works in Hong Kong and Beijing.  China Eastern  A trial to reduce levies for service industries in  Shanghai 
may be rolled out nationwide, cutting taxes by about 70 billion
yuan, Peng said. Shares in companies including  China Eastern
Airlines Corp. (670)  and  Shanghai International Airport Co. (600009)  rallied
after the October announcement of the experiment.  “A lot of our portfolio managers are still very much
focused on consumer-related areas,” Catherine Yeung, a Hong
Kong-based investment director at Fidelity Worldwide Investment,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday. Tax
cuts are helpful to  consumer spending , which is “very much on
track” after a November year-on-year retail-sales gain of about
17 percent, she said.  Turning on the Taps  China will “preset or fine tune policies in light of
changes in economic development,” the Politburo said last week,
adding that the government will seek “stable and relatively
fast economic growth while adjusting the economic structure and
regulating inflationary expectations.”  Standard Chartered Plc forecasts five reserve-ratio cuts
next year as the economy grows 8.1 percent.  China  has less capacity now to “turn on the taps” of
stimulus than in the aftermath of the Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. collapse in 2008 mainly “because of problems in the
banking system,” Andrew Colquhoun, the Hong Kong-based head of
Asia-Pacific Sovereigns for Fitch, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Nomura Holdings Inc. estimates that  China’s economy  may
expand 7.9 percent in 2012, the slowest pace in 13 years.  China routinely exceeds its projections for revenue, the
 World Bank  noted in a report in April. The 27 percent increase
so far this year compares with an 8 percent goal.  Eleven-month fiscal revenue was 9.73 trillion yuan, the
finance ministry said, boosted by higher-than-anticipated tax
takes from industrial profits and imports. The full-year goal
laid out in this year’s budget in March was 8.97 trillion yuan
for central and local governments, and a 9.12 trillion yuan
total including money from a so-called stabilization fund.  In November, revenue growth slowed after the economy
cooled, car and property purchases moderated, export tax rebates
rose and the threshold for personal income tax increased,
according to the  Ministry of Finance .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  