-- 
WGL Unit to Pay $731,000 to Settle Anacostia Pollution Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-12T22:42:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/wgl-holdings-unit-sued-by-u-s-for-cost-to-clean-anacostia-river-pollution.html
A unit of  WGL Holdings Inc. (WGL)  agreed
to pay almost $731,000 to settle pollution claims brought by the
U.S. and the  District of Columbia  over the discharge of
hazardous materials along the Anacostia River in  Washington .  Washington Gas Light Co. will also “excavate and remove”
portions of the riverbank containing contaminated soil stemming
from the company’s gas plant, which operated for almost 100
years in the area, the U.S. Interior Department said today in an
e-mailed statement. The U.S. announced the settlement shortly
after it sued the company in federal court in Washington.  “This settlement is a major step forward in restoring this
vibrant river, increasing public access, protecting habitat and
wildlife, and educating and employing our youth,” Secretary of
the Interior Ken Salazar said in the statement.  The company made gas on the land from 1888 until the
mid-1980s, according to the Interior Department statement.
Byproducts and waste from the gasification process created
hazardous contaminants, including benzene, arsenic, heavy
metals, tar, oil, coal, lampblack and coke.  The plant was demolished in 1986 and above-ground  storage
tanks  removed in 1997.  “For decades Washington Gas has voluntarily conducted
mitigation actions on the site,” Eric Grant, vice president of
corporate relations for Washington Gas, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are glad that the government has entered an
agreement for Washington Gas to move forward with the work it
has always been prepared to do.”  The case is U.S. v. Washington Gas Light Co., 11-02199,
U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 