-- 
World’s Biggest Rubber Growers May Back Physical Market in Benchmark Drive

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-12-12T13:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/world-s-biggest-rubber-growers-may-back-physical-market-in-benchmark-drive.html
Thailand , Indonesia and Malaysia,
which account for about 70 percent of natural-rubber output,
plan to set up a regional physical market to create a new
benchmark for the commodity, according to a trade group.  The market would help producers trade with more transparent
and reliable prices, Tjahjono Budiarto Tjandra, chairman of the
Committee on Strategic Market Operations at the International
Rubber Consortium Ltd., said in an interview in Bali today. The
countries agreed to take “specific measures” to support
prices, Bayu Krisnamurthi, Indonesia’s deputy trade minister,
told reporters in Bali after a meeting of representatives from
the three governments.  Rubber has slumped in Tokyo this year as  Europe ’s debt
crisis raised concern that demand may drop. The  Tokyo  Commodity
Exchange, which trades that benchmark, is tracking the contract
plan. The initiative may involve the Indonesia Commodity &
Derivatives Exchange, the Agricultural Futures Exchange of
Thailand and the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, Tjandra said.  “We’re ready to start the rubber contract next year,”
Megain Widjaja, chief executive officer of the Indonesia
Commodity & Derivatives Exchange, or ICDX, said in an interview.  The three Southeast Asian exchanges and the consortium met
in Phuket, Thailand last month to discuss the plan, Widjaja
said.  “Although the current rubber price has declined from early
2011, it is still quite high,” Bayu said. “We must be ready
for any situation that may further pressure the price.”  ‘Similar Plans’  Rubber futures in Tokyo are set for their worst annual
performance since 2008, when the global economic recession
reduced demand. The contract for delivery in May closed at 277.4
yen per kilogram on Tocom today.  “We will closely watch the development of the issue,”
said Fuminori Kondo, a spokesman for Tocom. “We’ve heard
similar ideas before. As the three producing countries represent
70 percent of global rubber output, the idea is interesting to
us as our bourse trades rubber futures.”  The Agricultural Futures Exchange of Thailand welcomed the
rubber plan, which merits further study, according to Chairman
Prasat Kesawapitak. “The initiative also needs support from the
government to help stabilize the price.”  The International Tripartite Rubber Council -- which
represents growers and exporters from Thailand, Indonesia and
 Malaysia  -- last month encouraged members to blacklist buyers
who default on purchases. Members may curb exports if necessary
to limit supply and boost prices, the group said Nov. 19.  Fundamentals  “There’s a desire from the governments of the three
countries to set up a market as soon as possible that would be
based on the real supply-and-demand fundamentals,” said Tjandra
from the consortium, which represents growers and exporters from
Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia. The contract would most likely
trade in dollars, he said.  The regional market may help curb speculation and
volatility in prices, Bayu said.  “It’s a producer-driven market and it will need full
government support and commitments from rubber growers to be
successful,” Widjaja said. “We have a physical tin market,
which also came from a producers’ initiative, as a pilot project
for such a market in the region.”  The ICDX will start trading a dollar-denominated physical
tin contract on Dec. 15, Widjaja said last week.  Indonesia  is
the largest exporter of the metal used to make solder.  “Any new market will face difficulties and challenges to
convince people to trade and use the price as a reference, but
we have to take the initiative,” Tjandra said. “Now is the
right time for this, with economic uncertainty we must have a
strong market that is free of speculation to reduce price
volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  