-- 
Global Economy Worked Better With Bretton Woods Currency System, BOE Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-12-12T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/world-fared-better-with-bretton-woods-boe.html
The global monetary and financial
system hasn’t maintained financial stability as well as the
 Bretton Woods  system of fixed currencies and needs to be
reformed, according to a  Bank of England  research paper.  “Against a range of metrics, today’s system has performed
poorly, at least relative to the BWS,” economists Oliver Bush,
Katie Farrant and Michelle Wright said in the  paper  published in
London today. “The key failure being the system’s inability to
maintain financial stability and minimize the incidence of
disruptive sudden changes in global capital flows.”  Regulators and authorities are redesigning the global
financial system to withstand shocks after the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in 2008 and the financial crisis.
The frequency of banking and currency crises has been higher in
the current system than in any previous international regime,
such as Bretton Woods and the gold standard, and reforms are
required, the economists said.  “The current system has coexisted, on average, with:
slower, more volatile, global growth; more frequent economic
downturns; higher inflation and inflation volatility; larger
current account imbalances; and more frequent banking crises,
currency crises and external defaults,” they said. “With the
exception of inflation, the outcomes achieved during the BWS
period were still better than those attained since 1990.”  The Bretton Woods conference in  New Hampshire  in 1944
established a system of fixed exchange rates that governed the
post-World War II global economic system until its collapse in
the early 1970s.  Imbalances  Today’s international monetary and financial system “has
permitted large imbalances to build between countries,
particularly over the past fifteen years or so,” the economists
said. “Although imbalances reversed sharply in 2009, they
remain high by historical standards.”  Reforms that could be pursued by individual countries
include an improvement in domestic financial markets, better
financial regulation and macroprudential policy frameworks, the
elimination of data gaps, and greater flexibility in prices,
wages and nominal exchange rates, the economists said.  In many cases, it will not be possible for individual
countries to mitigate the underlying failures and international
policy initiatives will be required, according to the paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  