-- 
Wyoming’s Tainted Water Pressures EPA on to Act on Gas Fracking

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-12-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/wyoming-s-tainted-water-pressures-epa-on-to-act-on-gas-fracking.html
A U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency report linking hydraulic fracturing for natural gas to
groundwater contamination for the first time puts pressure on
the agency to move sooner on efforts to regulate drilling.  The Dec. 8 report that chemicals consistent with those used
in drilling were found in groundwater samples in west-central
 Wyoming  may be used by the agency to accelerate action,
according to Ken von Schaumburg, a Washington-based attorney and
former EPA deputy general counsel. The EPA is weighing three
rules on fracturing, or fracking, the first of which is planned
for April.  Environmental groups say fracking, in which millions of
gallons of chemically treated water are forced underground to
shatter rock and let gas flow, is a threat to drinking-water
supplies. The EPA’s draft report on groundwater contamination in
Pavillion, Wyoming, about 230 miles (370 kilometers) northeast
of  Salt Lake City , is the first to blame the drilling technique
for spoiling water.  “They’re trying to move the rule-making along,” von
Schaumburg, who served in President  George W. Bush ’s
administration, said in an interview. “They’re getting a lot of
pushback from industry. This may be a tool for EPA to speed up
the process.”  The EPA’s three-year study followed complaints from
residents about the smell and taste of their water. Samples
taken from an aquifer through deep monitoring wells revealed
“compounds likely associated with gas-production practices,
including hydraulic fracturing,” according to the draft  report .  Encana’s Response  Encana Corp. (ECA) , which owns 123 wells in Pavillion, said the
report dealt with probabilities, “not a definitive
conclusion,” according to Doug Hock, a spokesman for the
Calgary-based company,  Canada ’s largest natural-gas producer.  He said synthetic chemicals such as glycols and alcohols
that turned up in the testing are just as likely “the result of
contamination from their own sampling.”  Conditions at Pavillion differ from “many other areas of
the country,” according to the EPA report. The Wyoming
drilling, which began in the 1950s, was shallower and closer to
an aquifer than is common in areas such as the Marcellus Shale
in northeastern states such as  Pennsylvania .  U.S. Senator  James Inhofe , a Republican from  Oklahoma , said
in a statement that the Pavillion findings were based on
“political science” and reflect President  Barack Obama ’s
“determination to shut down natural-gas production.”  ‘Politicized Role’  Daniel Kish, senior vice president for policy at the pro-
fracking  Institute for Energy Research  in Washington, said the
EPA under Administrator  Lisa Jackson  “has played an
increasingly politicized role in regulatory enforcement.”  Fracking permits are issued by states, the primary
regulators of oil and gas operations. Industry groups have said
regulation should remain in the hands of state officials who are
closest to local concerns and know the most about differences in
geology that affect drilling.  “We don’t think that there’s the need for federal
oversight,” Stephanie Meadows, upstream senior policy adviser
for the Washington-based  American Petroleum Institute , said in
an interview. “We would argue that the states are doing exactly
what they should do.”  The EPA has begun weighing federal rules for certain
elements of the drilling process.  “The industry is going to say this study proves nothing,”
 Tyson Slocum , energy program director for  Public Citizen , a
Washington-based consumer advocacy group, said in an interview.
“But everybody is talking about a vastly expanded role for
natural gas in the  U.S. economy , and there’s way too much
uncertainty into how fracking is going to be regulated.”  Three Initiatives  Fracking accounts for about a third of the U.S. gas supply,
up from 14 percent in 2009, according to the U.S. Energy
Department.  The EPA is conducting an extensive study of fracking and
its effect on drinking water, with plans to release an interim
report next year and a final study in 2014. The EPA will do its
own testing and review scientific studies to try to determine
whether drinking water is affected by fracking, and, if so, what
is causing it.  The first of three rules being weighed by the agency is
scheduled to be issued in April. It will cover air emissions
from new oil and gas wells of all types, requiring monitoring
and performance testing. The EPA said those standards are
intended to capture 95 percent of the smog-causing gases that
now escape in fracking operations.  Second, the EPA is working on standards for water
discharges from drilling that are scheduled to be issued in
2014.  Halliburton, Schlumberger  Third, companies such as  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Schlumberger
Ltd. (SLB) , which supply oil and natural-gas producers, may face new
requirements to disclose substances used in fracking after the
EPA said Nov. 23 that it accepted a petition filed by
environmental group Earthjustice. No deadline has been set for a
decision.  The EPA will try to provide “aggregate pictures of the
chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing,”
Stephen A. Owens, an assistant administrator at the agency, said
in a letter posted on the agency’s website. “This would not
duplicate, but instead complement, the well-by-well disclosure
programs of states.”  Mark Brownstein, chief counsel for energy programs at the
 Environmental Defense Fund  in  New York , said in an interview
that “the draft report on Pavillion is going to put more
pressure, certainly, on EPA to move quicker.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  