-- 
Mylan Wins Ruling Overturning Generic Doryx Antibiotic Ban

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-12-12T16:47:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/mylan-wins-ruling-overturning-generic-doryx-antibiotic-ban-1-.html
Mylan Inc.  won an appeals court
ruling in its bid to sell generic versions of  Warner Chilcott
Plc’s (WCRX)  antibiotic Doryx.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  said a judge erred when granting an order that bans
Mylan from selling the copy while a patent-infringement suit is
pending. The judge should have listened to some of the expert
testimony in the case before ruling, the appeals court  said  as
it remanded the case for further proceedings.  Doryx generated sales of $127 million in the first nine
months of the year, Dublin-based Warner Chilcott said Nov. 4, or
about 6 percent of the company’s total revenue. Warner Chilcott
contends that Mylan shouldn’t be allowed to sell low-cost
versions of the medicine until a patent on a modified coating
for the drug expires in December 2022.  Mylan contends the patent is invalid, and the Federal
Circuit said the Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , company’s arguments
weren’t addressed when District Judge William Martini in Newark,
 New Jersey , ruled that Warner Chilcott was likely to win the
case.  A trial in the underlying patent dispute may be held next
month, and the Federal Circuit said the judge could consider
issuing a temporary order banning Mylan’s copy until that time.  The case is Warner Chilcott Laboratories Ireland Ltd. v.
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., 2011-1611, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Warner
Chilcott Laboratories v. Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., 09-cv-2073,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  