-- 
Zoomlion Biggest Short as Bears Bet China’s Building Binge Will Slow Down

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-12-13T09:40:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/zoomlion-biggest-short-as-bears-bet-china-s-building-binge-will-slow-down.html
Short sellers have never been so
sure that  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co. ,
 China ’s second-biggest maker of construction equipment, will
drop as building slows and customers fall behind on payments.  Speculators lifted bets against Zoomlion to 22 percent of
shares outstanding last month, the highest proportion on record
and the most among Hong Kong-traded stocks tracked by  Data
Explorers . Bearish wagers increased even after the stock tumbled
as much as 47 percent this year to an all-time low on Sept. 26.  Zoomlion, whose sales of cranes and concrete machinery in
China make it a gauge of the world’s largest building boom,
posted a 50 percent gain in first-half revenue and a 110 percent
jump in  profit , four times more than the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  average. The company spurred sales by letting
customers buy machinery without paying upfront, a strategy that
some investors say may backfire after banks curbed real-estate
loans. Zoomlion  shares  gained 8.9 percent through yesterday from
this year’s low as China eased lending restrictions to bolster
the economy.  “It’s going to be difficult to maintain the same pace of
growth,” said  Alex Au , a Hong Kong-based managing director at
Richland Capital Management Ltd., which oversees about $300
million and is selling short Zoomlion shares. In a short sale,
traders sell borrowed stock, anticipating the price will drop so
they can profit by buying back the shares at a lower price.  Chen Yingzi, a spokeswoman for Zoomlion, based in Changsha,
 Hunan province  in south-central China, didn’t respond to three
phone calls and an e-mailed request for comment. Zoomlion shares
snapped three days of losses, climbing 5.2 percent to HK$8.26 as
of the close in  Hong Kong .  Sales Forecast  Zoomlion’s chairman and chief executive officer, Zhan Chunxin, said in a Nov. 15 interview in Hong Kong that slower
expansion in Chinese demand for building equipment will continue
next year because of waning  economic growth  and cutbacks in
railway building. Meeting a 50 billion yuan ($7.9 billion) sales
target this year will be “challenging,” he said.  Policy makers in Beijing are taking steps to support growth
in the second-largest economy, which may improve investor
sentiment toward the  construction industry , according to
Manulife Asset Management. The  People’s Bank of China  cut the
amount of cash banks must keep in  reserve  for the first time
since 2008 on Nov. 30, to 21 percent from a record 21.5 percent.  Zoomlion  shares have dropped 42 percent this year, bringing
its market capitalization to HK$70.9 billion ($9.1 billion),
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yields Rise  The company’s 6.5 percent yuan-denominated bonds due in
April 2016 yield 6.09 percent, up from 5.7 percent at the end of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  index  of corporate debt in  emerging
markets  has climbed to 6.25 percent from 5.8 percent.  Zoomlion is rated AA- by Beijing-based Dagong Global Credit
Rating Co., the fourth-highest investment grade, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It isn’t rated by  Standard & Poor’s ,
Moody’s Investors Service or Fitch Ratings, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Zoomlion’s  valuation  in the stock market is low relative to
its history and peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company’s Hong Kong-listed shares trade for 5.6 times
profits, compared with a historical average of 11 times, the
data show.  Sany Heavy, Caterpillar  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) , China’s biggest maker of
construction equipment, trades at 10 times earnings in  Shanghai 
and has a market value of $14 billion. Peoria, Illinois-based
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest construction and mining-
equipment maker, is valued at 13 times profit in  New York  and
has a market capitalization of $60 billion.  Short sales of Zoomlion slipped to 20 percent of shares
outstanding on Dec. 8 from a high of 22 percent on Nov. 22,
according to New York-based Data Explorers, which makes
estimates by analyzing securities lending data from custodian
banks and fund managers. Bets against Caterpillar are about 1.4
percent of shares outstanding, the data show. Short selling of
Sany Heavy’s shares isn’t allowed in Shanghai. The company said
it delayed plans for a Hong Kong stock sale in September.  ‘Look Ahead’  “If China keeps loosening policy, then the market will
look ahead and some of these stocks are trading at quite low
valuations,” Terrace Chum, the Hong Kong-based managing
director of greater China equities for Manulife Asset
Management, which oversees about $199 billion, said in a Dec. 1
interview, declining to speak about individual stock holdings.  Zoomlion  has 18 stock recommendations equivalent to
“buy,” seven holds and three sells, according to analyst
recommendations compiled by Bloomberg. The average 12-month
price estimate for the stock is HK$12.42, or 58 percent higher
than the closing price of HK$7.85 yesterday, the data show.  “Investors have overreacted on the risk for its financial
leasing business,” said Stanley Yan, an analyst at Taipei-based
 Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)  who had a “buy” rating on Zoomlion
as of September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are increasing bearish bets against Zoomlion a
year after the company sold shares in Hong Kong for the first
time. Zoomlion raised HK$13 billion last December, following an
increase in  fixed-asset investment  in China that lifted spending
on construction equipment by 92 percent to $35 billion in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and consulting firm Off-
Highway Research in  London . That’s more than the combined
equipment sales in the U.S.,  Europe ,  Japan  and  India , the data
show.  Sales Growth  Industry sales growth in China will probably slow this year
to 5 percent, according to Off-Highway Research, after a
government crackdown on real-estate speculation led developers
and cities to scale back projects. As state-owned banks reduced
lending, Zoomlion has provided more financing and loan
guarantees to its customers, according to the company’s semi-
annual report.  “Equipment leasing is becoming a bigger factor in
promoting sales” for construction-equipment manufacturers, said
Nicholas Yeo, the Hong Kong-based head of China and Hong Kong
equities at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) , which oversees about
$260 billion. Yeo said he doesn’t own Zoomlion shares. “We
don’t know how prudent or conservative these companies are in
their leasing and we won’t be able to tell unless we have a
credit crunch.”  Late Payments  Buyers of construction equipment are struggling to meet
their obligations, according to Julian Bu, who oversees research
on Chinese industrial stocks at Jefferies Group Inc. in Hong
Kong. Forty-one percent of firms that purchased  excavators  made
by local companies in the two years through October are late on
payments and 7 percent have defaulted, according to a Nov. 24
report by Jefferies which cited data compiled by the
Construction Machinery Dealers’ Association in China.  “The outlook for the sector is not good,” said Au, whose
Richland Asia Absolute Return Fund rose 3.6 percent this year
through Nov. 30, compared with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s 18
percent drop, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About 43 percent of Zoomlion’s assets as of June 30 were
payments the company expects to receive from customers and other
counterparties, up from 40 percent at the end of 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Zoomlion  had about 14.1 billion yuan
of “trade and other” receivables and 18.4 billion yuan of
receivables related to its finance leases, compared with 75.2
billion yuan of total assets, the semi-annual report shows.  Sany Heavy’s receivables accounted for about 29 percent of
assets at the end of June, while Caterpillar’s were about 39
percent as of Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Looks Like a Bank’  In addition to the receivables reported in its balance
sheet, Zoomlion has provided about 10.4 billion yuan of
guarantees for customers’ bank loans and third-party leasing
agreements, according to the notes in its semi-annual report.  “It kind of looks like a bank,” said Anthony H. Catanach
Jr., an associate professor at the Villanova University School
of Business and the Cary M. Maguire Fellow at the American
College Center for Ethics in Financial Services. “Almost half
of their assets are from someone who owes them money. They’re
functioning as kind of a lender to their buyers.”  Zoomlion’s operating  cash flow , a measure of the cash
generated by the business, was about 92 percent less than net
income in the first half in part because its customers didn’t
pay upfront, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It causes a lot of pressure on the cash flows because
you’ve sold the machines, but you haven’t gotten the money yet,
so the balance sheet is looking stretched,” said Jefferies
Group’s Bu. “That’s why these companies are coming to Hong Kong
and trying to raise money.”  Reserves Outlook  Zoomlion  hasn’t reported a surge in bad debts. The company
made payments of 38 million yuan in the first six months of this
year to banks in relation to defaults on loans it had guaranteed
for customers, down from 61 million yuan in the year-earlier
period, according to the semi-annual report. Zoomlion has been
able to sell repossessed machinery for amounts that aren’t
“significantly different” from the guarantee payments, the
company said.  Losses related to bad  debts  will increase as customers fall
behind on payments, according to Villanova’s Catanach.  “There’s clearly going to be some reserves that are going
to have to be set aside, which are going to impact the income
statement,” Catanach said.  Zoomlion’s trade and other receivables due in one to three
months rose 259 percent in the first half, compared with a 65
percent increase in receivables due within a month, according to
the semi-annual report.  ‘Too Crowded’  The company is considering acquisitions of machinery-makers
in the U.S., Europe and Japan in part because the Chinese market
is “too crowded,” Zhan, Zoomlion’s CEO, said in the interview.
Sany Heavy said on Dec. 6 it plans to build factories in more
than 10 foreign countries as domestic demand growth slows.  China has about 235 publicly listed machinery companies,
compared with 174 in the U.S., 257 in Japan and 17 in  Brazil ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A lot of these companies are still producing a lot of
equipment, so there could be a situation of supply outstripping
demand in the short term,” said Aberdeen’s Yeo. “We’d prefer
to be conservative and stay on the sidelines.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  