-- 
Zynga Sale May Cap Biggest Week for U.S. IPOs Since March

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-12-12T13:24:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-12/zynga-ipo-may-cap-biggest-week-for-u-s-offerings-since-march.html
Zynga Inc.  and  Michael Kors  Holdings
Ltd. are leading the biggest week for U.S. initial public
offerings in nine months, betting their surging sales will
attract investors.  Zynga, the largest maker of games on Facebook, luxury-
clothing designer Kors Holdings and nine other companies are
seeking as much as $3.8 billion in IPOs this week, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That’s the most since the five days starting
March 7, when HCA Holdings Inc. raised $4.4 billion.  Zynga’s management team, led by Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Pincus , has been telling investors in roadshow
presentations that the company is working on its biggest-ever
pipeline of online games. Zynga’s sales more than doubled in the
nine months through Sept. 30, while Kors Holdings’  revenue 
jumped more than 60 percent in its first half, even as  consumer
confidence  sank to the lowest level since the recession.  “These are companies that are experiencing very robust
secular growth,” said  Paul Bard , director of research at
Greenwich, Connecticut-based IPO research and investment firm
 Renaissance Capital LLC . “These are the types of deals that are
less impacted by what we’ve seen in the broader macro
environment.”  Offerings began to dry up in August as the sovereign-debt
crisis engulfed  Europe  and the U.S. received its first-ever
credit downgrade. Even with companies from Groupon Inc. to
Angie’s List Inc. completing share sales since November, more
than 200 IPOs are still on file with U.S. regulators to raise a
total of about $49 billion, according to Renaissance, the most
in more than a decade.  Asia  Deals  While deals in Asia have also rebounded, with offerings
raising at least $5.7 billion in  Hong Kong  last week, some of
the biggest IPOs priced at or near the low end of their proposed
ranges. Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. raised HK$15.8
billion ($2 billion) on Dec. 9 selling its shares at the low end
of a HK$15 to HK$21 range, people with knowledge of the matter
said.  New China Life Insurance Co.  raised HK$10.2 billion
selling shares at HK$28.50 each after offering them for HK$28.20
to HK$34.33.  Nexon Co., the Tokyo-based maker of online social games,
set its IPO price of 1,300 yen ($16.74) per share on Dec. 5 and
will begin trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange on Dec. 14,
according to Bloomberg data.  Hong Kong Offerings  At least four companies, including Guodian Technology &
Environment Group Co. and  Beijing Jingneng Clean Energy Co. , are
seeking to sell $1 billion of stock in IPOs scheduled to price
in Hong Kong this week, Bloomberg data show. That contrasts with
Europe, where the amount raised in offerings since August has
slumped more than 85 percent from the same period a year
earlier.  Zynga plans to offer as much as $1 billion of stock selling
100 million shares for $8.50 to $10 apiece on Dec. 15, according
to a regulatory filing and Bloomberg data. The $7 billion
valuation Zynga seeks at the high end of that range is 6.8 times
sales in the year through Sept. 30, or more than triple game
maker  Electronic Arts Inc.’s (ERTS)  price relative to sales in the same
period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “They have a good revenue stream and are diversifying
their revenue streams,” Akram Yosri, managing partner of Dubai-
based 3i Capital Group, said after leaving Zynga’s roadshow in
 New York  last week. His firm oversees about $1.4 billion.  Zynga’s Prospects  Zynga, which has 54 million daily active users that play
games for 2 billion minutes per day, is working to keep its lead
over Electronic Arts, which bolstered its own online services by
purchasing PopCap Games this year.  Redwood City , California-
based Electronic Arts had a market value of $7.3 billion, or 1.9
times trailing 12-month sales, as of Dec. 9, according to
Bloomberg data.  Zynga’s games, featured on Facebook Inc.’s social-
networking site, include “Mafia Wars” and “FarmVille.” Its
offering is being managed by Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  The stock will list on the  Nasdaq  Stock Market under
the symbol ZNGA. Facebook is also weighing an IPO that may value
the company at more than $100 billion, a person with knowledge
of the matter said last month.  Kors Holdings, whose products include clothes, fragrances
and beauty items, is seeking as much as $792 million Dec. 14,
offering 41.7 million shares at $17 to $19 apiece on behalf of
existing stockholders. The Hong Kong-based company, founded 30
years ago by designer Michael Kors, will receive no proceeds.
Kors himself, the largest individual investor, plans to trim his
stake to 8.6 percent from 12 percent.  Michael Kors  The midpoint of the offering range would value Kors
Holdings at $3.4 billion, or 3.4 times  sales  of $1 billion in
the 12 months through Oct. 1, its filing shows.  Coach Inc. (COH) 
trades at about 4.3 times sales over the same period, and  Ralph
Lauren  Corp. is at about 2.1 times sales.  Kors Holdings plans to more than double stores over the
“long term,” according to its regulatory filing.  Sales 
amounted to $548.7 million in the six months through Oct. 1,
compared with $340.9 million a year earlier.  “There is, as there should be, upside to the investor,
provided the company executes on a plethora of growth
opportunities with continued improvement to operating margins,”
said Jeffry Aronsson, chairman of New York-based Aronsson Group
LLC, which helps develop fashion brands.  Kors Holdings’ operating margin widened in the year ended
April 2 to about 18 percent, according to Bloomberg data. Rivals
Coach and Ralph Lauren held steady from year-ago levels at 32
percent and 15 percent, respectively.  Morgan Stanley,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Goldman Sachs are
leading the offering for the clothing designer, whose shares
will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker KORS.  Jive’s Offering  Jive Software Inc., the maker of social-networking software
for businesses, aims to raise as much as $117 million in its
IPO. The planned sale of 11.7 million shares for $8 to $10
apiece is scheduled for today, Bloomberg data show.  The top end of the offer range would value Jive at $573
million, or 8.3 times  sales  in the year through Sept. 30. That’s
more than double the ratio of 3 for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and 2.2 for
International Business Machines Corp., both named as competitors
in Jive’s IPO filing.  Jive, whose software lets employees collaborate on
projects, may benefit as larger technology companies snap up
purchases in cloud-computing to spur growth. SuccessFactors
Inc., whose programs manage employee performance, is fetching
$3.4 billion, 52 percent more than its public market value, in
an acquisition by SAP AG announced Dec. 3. Oracle Corp. agreed
to buy RightNow Technologies Inc. for $1.5 billion in October.  ‘Strategic Interest’  “It shows there is strategic interest in these types of
companies,” Renaissance’s Bard said.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Goldman Sachs are leading the offering
for  Jive , which will trade on the Nasdaq under the symbol JIVE.  Stocks that have made public debuts in the U.S. this year
have declined an average of 8.6 percent from their IPO levels
through Dec. 9, according to Bloomberg data. The monthly amount
raised in U.S. initial offerings this year peaked in May at $6.3
billion before bottoming at $34 million in September. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has recovered 14 percent, helped by
improved U.S. economic data, after falling to a one-year low
Oct. 3.  “It’s been a slow second half,” said Bard. “Underwriters
and bankers are incentivized and motivated to do as much deal
flow as they can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  