-- Tabcorp, Victoria State Win Appeal to Ban Online Bar Bets
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-10-12T04:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/tabcorp-victoria-state-win-appeal-to-ban-online-bar-bets.html
Tabcorp Holdings Ltd., (TAH)  Australia’s
biggest racecourse betting company, and the state of Victoria
won a ban on online wagering kiosks in bars with an appeal court
ruling the prohibition is constitutional.  The Australian federal appeal court today overturned an
Aug. 22, 2011  decision  by Justice Michelle Gordon which said the
ban on Sportsbet Pty’s Betbox -- an Internet-connected betting
kiosk -- prevented free trade and commerce between the nation’s
states and territories in violation of the constitution.  Sportsbet, Australia’s biggest corporate bookmaker, and the
Eureka Stockade Hotel sued Victoria in 2010 over the ban on the
kiosks, claiming the Darwin-based company’s Betbox is regulated
and authorized in the Northern Territory, where the bets are
accepted. Gordon’s decision would also have affected prohibition
of remote access betting facilities in New South Wales,
 Australia ’s most populous state.  “The impact of betting kiosks on the traditionally
exclusive ‘retail’-front presence has the potential to
significantly impact the wagering landscape,” Clayton Utz
lawyers Tony Rein, Chris McLeod and Kym Fraser wrote in an
analysis of Gordon’s ruling on the law firm’s  website . “The
Internet is undeniably playing its part in challenging existing
market structures in the wagering sphere and breaking down
traditionally well-defined State and Territory boundaries.”  Sportsbet, with annual revenue of about A$2 billion ($2.1
billion), can still ask the High Court of Australia to overturn
today’s ruling.  ‘Significant Hit’  Tabcorp, based in Melbourne, paid A$410 million in January
for a 12-year license to run race-betting operations in
Victoria. The company also was part of a duopoly, with  Tatts
Group Ltd. (TTS) , operating about 27,500 slot machines in the state,
in venues other than Melbourne’s Crown casino. It had
successfully sought to be added as a defendant in the Sportsbet
lawsuit.  Tabcorp and Tatts’s slot-machine operating licenses expired
in August and Victoria didn’t renew them, passing the licenses
instead to pubs and clubs. Tabcorp and Tatts sued the state,
claiming they were owed a total of A$1.2 billion for the loss of
the licenses.  “A A$1.2 billion hit on the Victorian budget would be a
very significant hit and have a very significant impact,”
Premier Ted Baillieu said following the filing of the lawsuits
in August, adding the state would defend itself against the
claims.  The case is The State of Victoria v. Sportsbet Pty.
VID1000/2011. Federal Court of Australia Full Court ( Melbourne ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  