-- Lacker Says Fed Bond Buying Has Few Benefits and Risks Inflation
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-10-12T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/lacker-says-fed-bond-buying-has-few-benefits-and-risks-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the Fed’s third round of bond
buying will increase inflation risks and complicate the pull-
back from record stimulus while not fueling economic growth.  “The benefits of that action are likely to be small,
because it’s unlikely to improve growth without also causing an
unwelcome increase in inflation,” Lacker said today in remarks
prepared for a speech at the  University of Virginia  in
Charlottesville. “Adding to our balance sheet increases the
risks we’ll have to move quickly when the time comes to
normalize  monetary policy  and begin raising  rates .”  The economy is recovering at a “relatively sluggish”
pace, and the decline in unemployment “has been disappointingly
slow,” Lacker said today to students, faculty and business
leaders. Low housing demand, shaken  consumer confidence  and
“political gridlock” among lawmakers unable to agree on a
 federal budget  plan are inhibiting the expansion, he said.  Lacker, who has dissented against every Federal Open Market
Committee decision this year, has said he opposed new asset
purchases because allocating credit is the responsibility of
Treasury or Congress. The Fed last month said it will purchase
$40 billion in mortgage bonds a month and hold the main  interest
rate  near zero until at least mid-2015.  The Fed’s third round of quantitative easing, announced
Sept. 13, has no end date or fixed total amount, unlike the
first two programs of bond buying. In the first, starting in
2008, the Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed
securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt and $300 billion
of Treasuries. In the second round,  announced  in November 2010,
the Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  Initial Claims  A report from the Labor Department yesterday showed that
initial claims for  unemployment benefits  declined last week to a
four-year low, which may have reflected difficulty adjusting the
data for seasonal swings. The  jobless rate  unexpectedly fell in
September to 7.8 percent, the lowest since President  Barack Obama  took office in January 2009.  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.3 percent pace
from April through June, slower than a prior estimate of 1.7
percent, after growing at a 2 percent rate in the first quarter.
Economists predict gross domestic product will grow 1.8 percent
in the third quarter and 1.9 percent in the fourth, according to
the median of 92 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Lacker said in Sept. 15  statement  that he “strongly
opposed” buying more mortgage bonds because the purchases will
“distort investment allocations and raise interest rates for
other borrowers.” He said that “channeling the flow of credit
to particular economic sectors is an inappropriate role for the
 Federal Reserve ,” according to the statement.  Record Stimulus  Also last month, the Fed district bank chief said that even
the central bank’s use of record stimulus may not be enough to
cut the jobless rate because of the severity of the shock from
the credit crisis. Monetary policy can’t offset how “various
frictions impede the economy’s adjustment to various shocks,”
Lacker said in a Sept. 18  speech  in New York.  Lacker, 56, dissented four times in  2006  in favor of higher
interest rates. He has been president of the reserve bank since
2004 and previously was its director of research. The Richmond
Fed district includes  Virginia , Maryland, the Carolinas, the
 District of Columbia  and most of  West Virginia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  