-- Advanced Micro Devices Said to Plan Up to 2,340 Job Cuts
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/advanced-micro-devices-said-to-plan-to-cut-as-many-as-2-340-jobs.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
second-largest maker of processors for personal computers, plans
to cut as many as 2,340 jobs, or about 20 percent of its
workforce, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The cuts are expected to be announced as early as next
week, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
plans aren’t public. At least 10 percent of AMD’s  staff  of about
11,700 will be affected, the person said yesterday.  AMD is striving to trim expenses to help cope with sagging
demand for personal computers that rely on its processors. Sales
in the third quarter will decline about 10 percent from the
prior period, a bigger drop than previously forecast, the
Sunnyvale, California-based company said on Oct. 11.  “With PC demand being so weak, we don’t think the company
has any choice but to do some considerable cost-cutting
measures,” said Betsy Van Hees, an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. in San Francisco. Cuts of 10 percent to 20
percent are “aligned with what we were hearing from our
industry checks as well,” said Van Hees, who declined to name
her sources.  The technology site CNET  reported  earlier yesterday that
AMD plans to cut as much as 30 percent of its workforce. The
blog All Things Digital said the measure would affect workers in
engineering and sales.  Phil Hughes, a spokesman for AMD, declined to comment.  Chief Executive Officer Rory Read has already lowered
headcount since he was appointed in August 2011. AMD slashed 10
percent of its workforce in a round of job cuts announced last
November.  In the third quarter of this year, total global PC
shipments fell 8.3 percent from a year earlier to 87.5 million,
market-research firm Gartner Inc. said earlier this week.  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the largest producer of chipmaking
equipment, said last week it will cut as much as 9 percent of
its workforce. Disk-drive makers  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  and
 Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  have also said demand has been worse than
projected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  