-- Maersk Takes 19 Ships Off Asia-Europe Route as Demand Falls
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-12T11:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/maersk-removes-19-ships-from-asia-europe-route-as-demand-tumbles.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the world’s
largest container line, said it will remove 19 ships from Asia-
 Europe  trade lanes in a bid to bolster rates as demand slumps.  Maersk will permanently scrap the AE5 service, which
employs eight vessels, and halt the AE9 sailing, which has 11,
until early December, the Copenhagen-based company said today.
The action will bring its total capacity reduction on the route
to 21 percent this year after a 9 percent cut in February.  “Asia-Europe capacity is too great after the significant
reduction in demand over the summer and companies are having to
adjust much faster than they’re accustomed to,” said Peter Sand,
chief analyst at Danish shipping association BIMCO.  Container rates from  Asia  fell below break-even last month
as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis depressed demand for  consumer
goods , according to London-based ship broker ICAP Plc. With
economies remaining weak, volumes may drop 3 percent for 2012 as
a whole, and Maersk could remove more ships and cut sailing
speeds to further manage capacity, it said in a statement.  “There is currently no need for the number of ships
sailing,” said Vincent Clerc, Maersk’s chief trade and marketing
officer, adding that the company will take steps to adjust to
declining demand “without reducing our market position.”  Shares Fall  Volumes in the third quarter, normally the peak season for
container flows as retailers in Europe and  North America  stock
up with Asia-produced goods for the festive season, have been
falling compared with last year, Sand said.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk traded down 1.2 percent at 40,520
kroner as of 1:12 p.m. in Copenhagen. The stock has gained 7
percent this year, valuing  Denmark ’s fourth-biggest company at
174 billion kroner ($30 billion).  Vessels on  Maersk Line ’s AE5 service each have a capacity
of 6,500 standard 20-foot containers of TEUs, while ships on the
AE9 route can carry 8,000 TEUs.  The Shanghai Containerized Freight Index, a measure of
rates for goods leaving  China ’s busiest port, fell 1.1 percent
today to the lowest value since March 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  