-- Affleck Joins Jackman to Put Studios in Best-Picture Race
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-12T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/affleck-joins-jackman-to-put-studios-in-best-picture-race.html
Ben Affleck  and  Hugh Jackman  are
giving major Hollywood studios the chance to win the best-
picture Oscar and end a five-year run for art-house films like
“The King’s Speech.”  Affleck’s Iranian rescue drama “Argo,” opening today from
 Warner Bros ., and  Universal Pictures ’ “Les Miserables,” with
Jackman, are near the top of Oscar lists published by websites
and critics. Ang Lee’s “Life of Pi,” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Twentieth Century Fox, is also getting buzz.  While the studios buy and distribute some of the smaller
pictures that have dominated the Oscars in recent years, their
own larger productions are routinely shut out. This year may be
different, thanks to Oscar rule changes and a handful of
releases that are generating critical notices.  “The major studios are very much in the Oscar race this
year,” said Phil Contrino, editor of the Boxoffice.com website.
He includes  Steven Spielberg ’s “Lincoln” in the mix. The film,
produced by the director’s DreamWorks Studios with backing from
Fox, will be distributed by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   The Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences tried to tip
the scale toward Hollywood’s so-called tentpole films for the
2010 Oscars, doubling the number of best-picture nominations to
10 after Warner Bros.’ Batman film “The Dark Knight” was
snubbed by members.  “It’s a little early to crown anything as the favorite,”
Contrino said. “‘Lincoln’ and ‘Les Miserables’ are still
waiting in the wings and either one could become the favorite
very quickly.”  ‘The Departed’  The $90 million Martin Scorsese film “The Departed,” from
 Time Warner Inc. (TWC) ’s Warner Bros., was the last big studio
production to win best picture, grabbing the honor in 2007.  Since then, the Oscar has gone to small films: “No Country
for Old Men,” “ Slumdog Millionaire ,” “The Hurt Locker,”
“The King’s Speech” and “The Artist.” Four of those cost an
estimated $15 million each, while “No Country” checked in at
$25 million, according to the  Internet Movie Database . The
academy announces its nominations on Jan. 10, with the awards
ceremony set for Feb. 24.  Lincoln, Iranians  “Lincoln” cost an estimated $50 million to make,
according to IMDB.com. The picture, about the 16th president’s
crusade to end slavery, generated best-picture mention from
several critics after a sneak preview of an uncompleted print on
Oct. 8 at the  New York  Film Festival. It comes out Nov. 16.  “‘Lincoln’ appears to be Oscar bait incarnate,” Scott
Feinberg, an awards analyst for the Hollywood Reporter, wrote
afterward.  Affleck directed and stars in “Argo,” based on the true
story of U.S. Central Intelligence Agency operatives who create
a fake movie production company as a ruse to rescue U.S.
diplomats stranded in Iran during the 1979 revolution.  Affleck plays agent Tony Mendez, who with the help of the
Canadian ambassador convinces the new Iranian government that
the diplomats were Canadian location scouts for a science-
fiction film called “Argo.”  John Goodman  plays  John Chambers ,
the real-life, Oscar-winning makeup artist who helped set up the
fake production company, known as Studio Six.  Awards Superstition  Details of the “Canadian Caper” were classified until
1997, according to the  CIA website . “Argo” has a 96 percent
approval rating on Rottentomatoes.com, meaning that 25 of the 26
reviews compiled by the site were positive. Warner Bros. spent
$50 million to $60 million to make the movie, the  Los Angeles 
Times reported.  The awards talk is troubling, said Grant Heslov, a producer
of the film, along with  George Clooney  and Affleck.  “It makes me nervous,” said Heslov, whose credits include
“The Ides of March” and “Good Night, and Good Luck” “The
truth is that, really all I care about is that a lot of people
go out and see the movie. All the rest is just gravy and
dessert.”  Victor Hugo  Warner Bros. studio chief Jeff Robinov gave the script to
Affleck, who contacted Heslov and Clooney, Heslov said.  “It had humor and it had intrigue and it seemed to be
relevant,” Heslov said. “It’s more relevant now than ever
before.”  “ Les Miserables ,” a big-screen adaptation of the play
based on Victor Hugo’s 1862 novel, is among the highly regarded
studio contenders. The film, which cost about $60 million
according to Indiewire, stars Jackman as the escaped convict
Jean Valjean,  Anne Hathaway  as Fantine and  Russell Crowe  as
Inspector Javert. Universal, part of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , releases the
film on Dec. 25.  Indie Entries  Glowing reviews for big studio fare may not be enough to
sway Oscar voters, said Tom O’Neil, who tracks forecasts on the
website GoldDerby.com.  “We are all optimistic about the potential success of big
films, but recent history seems to show that Oscar voters want
to show what snobs they are,” O’Neil said.  Oscar-watchers also are touting well-regarded independent
films, including “Beasts of the Southern Wild,” acquired by
Fox Searchlight, and Weinstein Co.’s “Silver Linings
Playbook,” starring  Bradley Cooper  and  Jennifer Lawrence .  “Beasts of the Southern Wild” won four Cannes Film
Festival awards and the Sundance Film Festival’s Grand Jury
prize. The sometimes fantastical tale, made for an estimated
$1.8 million, follows the trials of a young girl in a small
bayou community.  In “Silver Linings Playbook,” Cooper plays a teacher who
is trying to rebuild his life after being released from a mental
institution. He becomes involved with an equally troubled woman
played by Lawrence.  Under $25 Million  A best-picture win can add box-office sales for films that
still are in theaters and DVD sales for those that aren’t. The
prestige also helps studios attract talent to future projects.  Last year, the academy adjusted the rules again, giving
members the option of nominating a minimum of five films and as
many as 10 for best picture. They nominated nine.  Regardless of whether the studio films win, the Oscar-
related excitement about them is good for business, said  Tom Sherak, who ushered in the changes as academy president.  “What’s nice is that the anticipation is there,” said
Sherak, also a former Fox executive. “I think when you start
early and get that talk started, it’s a good thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  