-- AIG Sponsors Jersey of Rugby World Champion All Blacks Team
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-12T04:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/aig-becomes-jersey-sponsor-of-rugby-world-champion-all-blacks.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer that counts the U.S. government as its largest
 shareholder , will sponsor six  New Zealand  rugby teams including
the world champion All Blacks.  The All Blacks will carry the logo of New York-based AIG on
the front of their jerseys and the back of their shorts, the
company’s Australian unit said in an e-mailed statement.
Financial terms of the 5 1/2-year agreement weren’t disclosed.  By aligning AIG with a team that has won three-quarters of
its international Test matches since 1903, Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Benmosche  is trying to revive a brand that his
predecessor Edward Liddy dismissed as “wounded and disgraced”
in 2009 amid a U.S. bailout that swelled in value to $182.3
billion and was repaid last month. Benmosche is scheduled to
ring the opening bell at the  New York  Stock Exchange next week
as the insurer shows off a redesigned logo.  “The All Blacks’ winning tradition and reputation for
tenacity, integrity and performance reflect attributes in AIG’s
own culture,” Benmosche said in the statement. “We are
extremely honored to be the All Blacks’ new front-of-jersey
sponsor and excited by the benefits that come with the teaming
of two world-class franchises.”  AIG, which announced a deal for the logo to appear on the
U.S. rugby team’s uniforms this week, said its logo will also be
carried on the front of the jerseys of the Maori All Blacks, All
Blacks Sevens, New Zealand Black Ferns, New Zealand women’s
sevens and men’s under-20 teams.  AIG has also sponsored record 19-time English soccer
champion Manchester United.  Aon Plc (AON) , the world’s largest
insurance broker, has its emblem on the Red Devils’ jersey after
replacing AIG in 2010.  Adidas Partnership  AIG’s logo joins that of  Adidas AG (ADS)  and the team’s silver
fern emblem on the All Blacks’ jersey. Adidas, the world’s
second-biggest sporting-goods maker, has sponsored the All
Blacks since 1999 and four years ago extended its contract
through 2019. Upon renewing the deal, CEO  Herbert Hainer 
described the All Blacks as “one of the most inspirational and
talented sports teams in the world.”  Adidas remains the principal partner of the New Zealand
Rugby Union, the Wellington-based governing body said today.  Steve Tew, the NZRU’s CEO, said the decision to put another
logo on the iconic All Blacks jersey “is not a step we have
taken lightly.”  ‘Unprecedented Opportunity’  “We respect the rich and proud heritage of this
extraordinary team and carefully weighed the change,” Tew said
in the statement. “In the end, the AIG sponsorship is an
unprecedented opportunity, and the best option to sustain the
future of New Zealand rugby and grow the global game.”  New Zealand earned its first Rugby World Cup title since
1987 last year by winning the global championship’s seventh
edition on home soil.  Under new head coach  Steve Hansen , the team has won all
nine of its matches this year to extend its winning streak to 16
straight Tests, lifting it within two of setting a record for
consecutive victories by a top-tier rugby nation. New Zealand
and  South Africa  share the elite mark of 17 straight successes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  