-- Akzo CEO’s Fatigue Has Investors in Limbo Over Future Plan
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-10-12T07:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/akzo-ceo-s-fatigue-has-investors-in-limbo-over-future-plan-1-.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  Chief Executive
Officer Ton Buechner’s need to extend leave for fatigue six
months into the job creates a leadership vacuum as investors
await a new strategy for the world’s biggest paintmaker.  Members of the supervisory board will discuss Buechner’s
latest medical reports on Oct. 17, and update investors “in due
course,” spokesman Tim Van der Zanden said by phone late
yesterday. The focus of next week’s meeting will likely be
planning a future without the 47 year-old, according to ING
analyst Fabian Smeets.  Buechner joined Akzo’s executive committee at the start of
the year, bolstered by his reputation for overhauling Swiss pump
maker  Sulzer AG. (SUN)  He traveled globally to see operations spanning
chemicals, Dulux paint and industrial coatings, building a
strategic vision for release at an investors’ meeting this month
in  London  that’s now been canceled.  “It’s over and out for Buechner, I don’t think he’ll come
back,” said Amsterdam-based Smeets, who has a “hold” rating
on the Akzo stock. “My guess is they will make a final decision
on Wednesday. Nothing is going to happen in the next six months.
They will also have to find a new CEO so it might take up to a
year before Akzo will make any announcement on its strategy
going forward.”  Akzo shares dropped 4 percent to 42.98 euros in Amsterdam
as of 9:25 a.m., their lowest level since July 19. The decline
widens the gap in performance with competitors, bringing the
year-to-date advance to 15 percent.  PPG Industries Inc. (PPG)  has
climbed 39 percent, rewarded for its decision to exit a
commodity chemicals business. Another U.S. paintmaking rival,
 Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) , is up 67 percent.  Restructuring Case  Buechner will also miss the presentation of third-quarter
results, according to Dutch broadcaster RTL, which first
reported the extended sick leave.  “A lot of things are uncertain now, as we really don’t
know when Buechner will return. We don’t know if there is a plan
B, if they’re talking about a successor or what to expect going
forward,” Micha Tiekink, an analyst at Rabo Securities said by
phone. Tiekink has a buy-rating on Akzo.  The Dutch national joined a company with annual sales of
15.7 billion euros ($20 billion) in need of an efficiency boost
across its diversified operations, analysts said. Buechner faces
writedowns on goodwill and brand names of as much as 2 billion
euros, alongside other charges linked to a cost-savings program,
according to a Sept. 28 report by  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  analyst Chris Counihan.  Global Presence  “There is reason for concern on how this will develop,”
said Corne Van Zeijl, a  fund manager  at SNS  Asset Management (ADN)  in
Den Bosch with Akzo shares in its portfolio. “There’s a
difference if you’re CEO of a local company or a company like
Akzo which is all over the world. The share price won’t react
favorably.”  Having opted for an external candidate last time around,
it’s unlikely they will look within the company for a successor,
ING’s Smeets said.  Buechner has indicated that his strategy would focus on
operational improvement and building on strategic positions
rather than making large portfolio changes.  A decision on Akzo’s under-performing decorative paint
business in the U.S. would likely not be forthcoming, analysts
said. His predecessor, Hans Wijers, highlighted that once a
turnaround of the Glidden paint brand sold throughout  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  in the U.S. was completed, a decision on the future
of the business within the company would be taken.  Troubled Start  Akzo shares may also be punished for the manner Buechner’s
extended leave was announced. Rather than issuing a statement,
news emanated from the RTL interview yesterday with Akzo
supervisory board member Karel Vuursteen.  “We always knew there was a chance it would take longer as
he doesn’t have a broken leg,” said Van Zeijl. “This was a guy
who has been brought on board with some fanfare and he is well-
respected. Akzo had to make a difficult choice on how to
communicate and they opted for this way. In hindsight, we will
know whether this was the right choice.”  The company will now be under pressure to give more
information about Buechner’s ailment, said  Erik Gordon ,
professor at the  University of Michigan ’s Ross School of
Business.  “So far, it is listed as ‘‘fatigue’’, but if he is not
quickly back at his post, investors will want to know more
detailed information about his condition or about a  succession
plan ,” Gordon said by e-mail. “It is an unusual and uncertain
situation and the lack of details about it makes investors all
the more concerned.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  