-- Malaysia to Reduce Tax on Palm-Oil Exports; Futures Decline
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-10-12T11:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/malaysia-to-reduce-palm-oil-export-tax-abolish-duty-free-quota.html
Malaysia , the world’s second-biggest
 palm-oil  producer, will reduce the export duty on the crude
variety and abolish a duty-free shipment quota from Jan. 1,
according to the government. Futures dropped.  The cut will allow the industry to compete with other
exporting countries, the Ministry of Plantation Industries and
Commodities said in a statement today. The new rates will range
from 4.5 percent to 8.5 percent, rising as prices climb from
2,250 ringgit ($736) a metric ton to 3,600 ringgit, Minister
Bernard Dompok said. The existing rate is 23 percent.  Palm oil, used in food, detergents and biofuels, has
plunged since the end of August as the global economic slowdown
cut demand in China and  Europe , driving reserves to an all-time
high. Inventories in Malaysia jumped 17.4 percent to a record
2.48 million tons in September from August, the Malaysian Palm
Oil Board said.  Indonesia  is the largest producer.  “Malaysia is following our  tax policy ,” Indonesian Deputy
Trade Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi said by phone. “The move will
add supply and increase pressure on prices. We will study the
situation and see how this will impact us.”  Palm oil for December delivery fell 0.9 percent to close at
2,500 ringgit, paring losses of as much as 5.7 percent after the
announcement. Futures dropped 16 percent last month as
inventories climbed, the biggest drop since October 2008.  Sime
Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the biggest listed producer, fell 0.5 percent to 
9.72 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur trading.   While Malaysia’s duty-free export quota was 5 million tons
this year, only half had been used, Dompok said on Oct. 3.
The changes were welcomed by the refining industry where more
supply will help utilization rates, said Mohammad Jaaffar Ahmad,
chief executive officer of the refiners association.  Sliding Scale  Indonesia’s tax changes last year made local crude palm oil
cheaper than in Malaysia, cutting costs for refiners. The
country,  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy, reduced the maximum
export tax on refined, bleached and deodorized, or RBD, palm oil
to 10 percent from 23 percent. The rate for RBD palm olein was
cut to 13 percent from 25 percent, while the highest tax for
crude oil was set at 22.5 percent.  The duties are applied on a sliding scale depending on
world prices. The tax this month is 13.5 percent on a base price
of $927 a ton and the government will decide the November duty
at the end of this month.  The Malaysian government is consulting with relevant
parties to implement the B10 program to blend 10 percent of palm
oil biodiesel with petroleum diesel for the “unsubsidized
sector,” it said. That will increase consumption of crude palm
oil by a further 300,000 tons a year, it said.  The government is also studying incentives to replace old
and unproductive trees, and an estimated 100,000 hectares need
to be replanted, reducing supply by 300,000 tons, it said.  The nation will continue with measures to strengthen the
industry to ensure growers receive “remunerative income,”
especially smallholders. They represent almost 40 percent of the
5 million hectare area, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  