-- Alex Rodriguez Stays on Bench as MLB Yankees Oust Orioles
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/alex-rodriguez-won-t-start-tonight-s-game-5-against-orioles-1-.html
Alex Rodriguez was benched for the
 New York  Yankees’ biggest game of the year, ending a 70-game
postseason starting streak for Major League Baseball’s highest-
paid player who has been mired in a playoff slump.  Rodriguez, 37, the major league active career home-run
leader and a former Most Valuable Player, was left out of the
starting lineup by manager Joe Girardi in last night’s American
League Division Series 3-1 win against the Baltimore Orioles.
Eric Chavez played third base in his place and hit ninth at
Yankee Stadium, and Rodriguez did not get into the game.  The victory gave the Yankees a 3-2 series win as they
advanced to play the Detroit Tigers in the best-of-seven AL
Championship Series for a spot in the World Series.  “I always have to look in the mirror,” Rodriguez told
reporters before the game.  Yankees manager Joe Girardi called the decision
“difficult,” and said Rodriguez wasn’t injured and was
prepared to pinch hit if needed.  “His message is, ‘Let’s win and I’m ready to help whenever
you need me,’” Girardi said at a news conference before the
game. “And I believe that.”  Rodriguez had started the last 70 of 72 postseason games
he’s played. The last time he entered a postseason game as a
pinch-hitter was in 1995, his second season in the major
leagues, while with the Seattle Mariners. During Game 4 of the
AL Championship Series at the Cleveland Indians, he pinch hit in
the ninth inning, striking out.  Lineup Card  Rodriguez, who has five years and $114 million left on his
contract, is 2-for-16 with nine strikeouts this postseason. All
the strikeouts have come against right-handed pitchers. Last
night’s Baltimore starter, Jason Hammel, is a right-hander.  “He’s meant a lot to our organization and the game of
baseball over the years and has been a very productive hitter,
but he’s struggled against right-handers this series,” Girardi
said.  Against Hammel, Rodriguez is 8-for-24 with four home runs
and nine runs batted in.  Rodriguez hit fifth in the order two days ago after batting
in the No. 3 spot in the first three games of the series. He was
removed in the bottom of the ninth inning of Game 3 and replaced
by Raul Ibanez, who tied the game with a home run and won it
with another home run in the 12th inning.  Rodriguez was removed from Game 4 in the 13th inning and
replaced by Chavez, who lined out to end the game as the Orioles
won 2-1.  Rodriguez is 4-for-34 with 15 strikeouts over the last two
postseasons. A three-time AL MVP whose 647 home runs rank fifth
on the MLB career list, Rodriguez last hit a homer on Sept. 14
and has gone 21 games since his last postseason home run in
2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  