-- Copper Futures Drop as Scrap Demand Ebbs, China Concerns Mount
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-10-12T17:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/aluminum-poised-for-worst-week-since-november-as-metals-decline.html
Copper fell, capping the biggest
weekly drop in three months, as signs of slowing scrap-metal
purchases and bank lending in  China  fueled concern that demand
will weaken as the global economy sputters.  Scrap discounts to new metal widened 25 percent in the past
three months as demand slumped in China, the world’s biggest
user, according to Metalsco Inc., a St. Louis-based recycler. In
China, banks extended 623.2 billion  yuan  ($99.5 billion) of
loans last month, below the 700 billion yuan median estimate of
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. In September, copper rose the
most since January as central banks expanded stimulus measures.  “There’s not much evidence that the demand side of the
equation is really as good as prices have suggested,”  Bill O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in  Upper Saddle River ,
 Jersey , said in a telephone interview. “Scrap is a very good
leading indicator of copper prices, and when we see weakening in
scrap, it’s a signal that demand isn’t particularly strong.”  Copper futures for December delivery slid 1.3 percent to
close at $3.703 a pound at 1:20 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
The price fell 2 percent this week, the most since July 6.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week reduced its
estimates for Chinese growth in 2012 and 2013 and also cut
projections for worldwide expansion.  No. 2 scrap, a benchmark product, is trading almost 40
cents below Comex futures, Bret Tauben, a trader and part owner
at Metalsco, said in a telephone interview. That compares with a
discount near 30 cents in the third quarter, he said. Buying
interest from China has been weak, he said.  Copper production will exceed demand by 293,000 metric tons
next year, compared with a deficit of 102,000 tons this year,
Credit Suisse has estimated. Fourteen analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg said they expect the metal to drop next week, seven
were bullish, and 10 were neutral.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 1.3 percent to $8,130 a ton ($3.69 a pound). Zinc,
nickel, aluminum lead and tin also dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  