-- Amtrak Chugs Along Despite Decades of Political Battles
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u r g a n
-- 2012-10-12T22:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/amtrak-chugs-along-despite-decades-of-political-battles.html
The past few months have seen some
good news for  Amtrak . In July, the nation’s passenger-rail
service announced a record monthly ridership of 2.78 million
trips. In fiscal year 2012, more than 31.2 million passengers
rode the rails, also a record.  Unfortunately, any excitement over these developments has
to be tempered by economic reality. The National Railroad
Passenger Corp., the for-profit company that runs Amtrak, is
always in the red. Only operating subsidies from Congress keep
Amtrak running -- to the tune of about $466 million this year.
Subsidies are down by more than $250 million since 2004, and
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has targeted the
Amtrak funds for one of his budget cuts.  Since Amtrak’s founding in 1970, the government’s role in
creating and sustaining the passenger railroad has made for
spirited  political debate  -- yet history suggests Romney would
have a tough time killing off the service if he gets elected.  In 1969, passenger rail was in steep decline, a dropoff
that started during the 1920s and then accelerated after World
War II. By the time  Richard Nixon  became president, the nation’s
rail companies no longer wanted to carry passengers, since it
was a money-losing proposition. But some members of Congress,
led by Senator Vance Hartke, a Democrat from  Indiana , thought it
was essential to preserve intercity passenger-rail service, even
if that meant a large role for the federal government was the
only solution.  Stepping In  During the summer of 1969, Secretary of Transportation John
Volpe heard something similar from his staff: Without federal
intervention, passenger-train service would die in the U.S.
Volpe, a former Republican governor of  Massachusetts , knew the
importance of that service to the country. He convinced the
Nixon White House to let his department draft legislation to
create a national passenger railway.  As Volpe’s biographer Kathleen Kilgore describes it,
Volpe’s idea was something of a tough sell with members of the
Nixon administration, especially aide John Ehrlichman. By
February 1970, Nixon still hadn’t approved Volpe’s plan. The
secretary met with Ehrlichman, “banging his fist on the desk and
threatening to pack his bags and go back to  Boston ” unless Volpe
could personally talk to Nixon about the bill. Ehrlichman
agreed, and Nixon gave his support.  By this time, Congress was already considering a bill
drafted by Hartke to create what would become the National
Railroad Passenger Corp., a quasipublic entity. Volpe’s staff
worked with Hartke to merge their two bills. The hybrid
legislation called for eliminating some existing passenger-rail
lines and spending $340 million. Nixon signed the bill into law
in October, and the new corporation’s trains, operating under
the now-familiar name Amtrak, began running in 1971.  Volpe had high hopes for the new service, which his staff
had once dubbed Railpax. By eliminating less-popular routes and
bringing in faster trains, he hoped Amtrak could operate without
subsidies within five years.  But an unnamed “high official of the Transportation
Department,” quoted by the  New York  Times in January 1971, had a
different vision. He said the whole purpose of the law that
created the corporation was to “run the wheels off the existing
equipment” and then “put an end to passenger trains in this
country.” The paper had earlier reported that the Nixon
administration never cared for Volpe’s Railpax proposal, but it
agreed to the compromise bill that called for smaller subsidies
than what Hartke had originally wanted.  Bipartisan Support  Another fight over subsidies arose soon after Amtrak
started rolling. In October 1971, Amtrak officials rejected a
bipartisan congressional call to give the railway more money
than it requested. “There is no cheap way to build decent rail
transportation,” said Republican Senator Lowell Weicker of
 Connecticut . Hartke told Amtrak that to make passenger-rail
service thrive, “It’s got to be massive, it’s got to be
exciting, it’s got to be inspirational.”  Since then, the debate over Amtrak has shown that not
everyone in government shared Hartke’s concern for building
excitement and inspiration. Soon after taking office in 1981,
President  Ronald Reagan  called for cutting the subsidy by 35
percent, and he tacked on another 12 percent cut later in the
year. Congress, though, ignored him, giving Amtrak more than the
president requested. Almost 25 years later, President  George W. Bush  called for cutting all of Amtrak’s operating subsidies.
Like Reagan, he faced a congressional rebuff.  Today, the bipartisan support the subsidies enjoyed during
Amtrak’s early days has mostly waned. But each year, tens of
millions of riders follow the cry of “All aboard,” grateful for
an alternative to cars, buses and airplanes for long-distance
travel.  (Michael Burgan is a freelance writer and editor of The
Biographer’s Craft, the newsletter for Biographers International
Organization. His love of trains began with his first Amtrak
ride from Hartford to New York in 1972. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Michael Burgan
at  mburgan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Kirsten Salyer
at  ksalyer@bloomberg.net  or. 