-- Apple Said to Plan Oct. 23 Debut for Smaller IPad Tablet
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-10-12T16:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/apple-said-to-plan-oct-23-unveiling-for-smaller-ipad-tablet.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may unveil a smaller
version of the iPad at an event on Oct. 23, according to a
person familiar with the matter who asked not to be named
because the plans aren’t public.  The new model will have a screen that’s 7 inches to 8
inches diagonally, less than the current 9.7-inch version,
people familiar with the designs said in July.  A smaller, less expensive iPad could undercut the tablet
ambitions of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,
according to Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.
Google’s Nexus 7 tablet and some versions of Amazon’s Kindle
Fire with 7-inch screens cost $199. Apple will likely price the
mini at $299 or $349, Wu said.  “These competitors have a tough enough time competing
against the 10-inch iPad,” Wu said in a telephone interview
today. The lower-priced iPad model “will make the competition
even tougher. It tells you how hard it is to beat Apple. These
other companies have to either lose money or break even on these
products.”  Trudy Muller , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  While the smaller iPad may hamper market entries by Google
and Microsoft, it may also attract price-conscious consumers who
might have otherwise bought another Apple product, such as the
$299 iPod Touch or the $399 iPad 2, said  Brian Marshall , an
analyst at ISI Group.  ‘Cannibalize Sales’  “What’s this going to do to iPod Touch sales?” Marshall
said in an interview. “Is this going to cannibalize them? How
are they going to fit this in and how is it going be different
from their other products?”  Since the iPad went on sale in April 2010, Apple has
dominated the tablet market, which is predicted by DisplaySearch
to reach $63.2 billion this year. Apple has 61 percent of the
market, according to  Gartner Inc.   Google announced plans in June to debut the Nexus 7. In
July, Microsoft unveiled a tablet called Surface that will have
a screen size similar to the current iPad. Amazon’s Kindle Fire
was released last year, and the company last month previewed a
variety of new models at various sizes and price points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Faughnder in  New York  at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  