-- Harvard’s Basketball Team May Get New Arena Under Allston Plan
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-10-13T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/harvard-s-basketball-team-to-get-arena-in-proposed-allston-plan.html
Harvard University’s Ivy League-
champion basketball team will get a new arena in Allston, the
Boston neighborhood where the college has started building a
science center, according to a construction proposal.  Plans for the arena and for renovations to Harvard’s
century-old football stadium will be submitted to Boston city
planning officials next week, Kevin Casey, a spokesman for the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based university, said in an e-mail.  Endowment losses from the financial crisis that began in
2008 forced Harvard to halt work on the planned $1.1 billion
science center. University President Drew Faust said in June
that construction of the science center, the focal point of a
broad plan for expanding into Allston, will resume next year.  Under coach Tommy Amaker, Harvard’s  Crimson basketball team 
had a 26-5 record in the 2011-2012 season. Starters Brandyn
Curry and  Kyle Casey  withdrew from school and the team for the
current year because of a cheating scandal that has implicated
about 125 undergraduates,  Sports Illustrated  reported in
September.  The new basketball arena is planned to be built near
Barry’s Corner, a major intersection in Allston, and to include
mixed-use, street-level development, Casey said.  Harvard’s U-shaped football stadium was built in 1903. It
seats more than 30,000 spectators and has been designated a
National Historic Landmark, according to the school’s website.  Harvard’s men’s and women’s basketball teams play in Ray
Lavietes Pavilion, formerly called the Briggs Athletic Center,
which opened in 1926, according to the website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  