-- Stocks Drop on Bank Margins; Crops Lead Commodities Lower
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-10-12T20:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/asian-stocks-advance-with-regional-currencies-oil-yen-weakens.html
U.S. stocks erased an early rally as
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s  shrinking profit margin  and weakness in
European markets overshadowed a jump in  consumer confidence  to
the highest level since the recession started. Commodities sank
and the euro trimmed an early gain.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.3 percent to
1,428.59 at 4 p.m. in  New York , after rising as much as 0.4
percent, and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.5 percent. Ten-
year Treasury yields fell one basis point to 1.66 percent.
Industrial metals and crops led commodities lower. The euro was
up 0.2 percent at $1.2955 after rising as much as 0.5 percent,
while South Africa’s rand erased gains and tumbled 0.8 percent
as the nation’s credit rating was cut to BBB at S&P.  Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase & Co. paced a retreat in
banks as improving earnings were overshadowed by a drop in net-
interest margin, a gauge of the profitability of lending. U.S.
equities  rallied earlier  after the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary October consumer sentiment index increased
to 83.1 from 78.3 the prior month, topping the median estimate
of 78 in a survey of economists.  “The headline macro numbers are getting diminished by the
fact that you’re not seeing the follow-through on earnings,
revenues, outlooks,”  Matt McCormick , who helps oversee $7
billion at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “There was a lot of build-up and high
expectations for Wells Fargo and JPMorgan and people were
underwhelmed.”  Weekly Loss  The  S&P 500  has lost more than 2.5 percent since climbing
to an almost five-year high on Sept. 14 after the  Federal
Reserve  announced plans to buy $40 billion of mortgage
securities a month to stoke economic growth. The benchmark index
lost 2.2 percent this week, its biggest drop since late May and
early June.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc., the second-largest maker of
processors for personal computers, plunged 14 percent today to
lead declines after it cut its third-quarter revenue forecast,
citing weak demand across all product lines in a challenging
economic environment.  Banks in the S&P 500 led declines among  24 industries 
today, losing 2.7 percent as a group. JPMorgan, the largest  U.S.
bank  by assets, slid 1.1 percent even after posting net income
rose 34 percent on gains from mortgages and trading. Wells Fargo
tumbled as its shrinking lending margin overshadowed record
earnings. Wells Fargo’s net-interest margin, the difference
between what the bank makes on loans and pays for funds,
narrowed 0.25 percentage point to 3.66 percent in the quarter.
JPMorgan’s margin slipped to 2.43 percent from 2.66 percent a
year earlier.  Banks Drop  First Horizon National Corp., Regions Financial Corp.,
SunTrust Banks Inc., Fifth Third Bancorp and PNC Financial
Services Group Inc., all lenders that will report results this
month, slumped more than 3 percent and were among the largest
declines in the S&P 500.  Signs of a housing recovery prompted Wall Street firms to
raise estimates for profit growth at banks to 17 percent for the
third quarter and 33 percent in the fourth. Companies in the S&P
500 are expected to snap a three-year streak of profit growth,
with earnings last quarter projected to decrease 0.9 percent
from the previous year, according to analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Management Pessimism  Earnings pessimism among U.S. companies is climbing to
levels last seen when stocks were mired in bear markets. Over
the last four weeks, the ratio of companies saying profits will
trail estimates compared with those saying they will exceed them
climbed to 4.3, according to 69 earnings previews compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate matches peaks reached in February 2009 and
October 2001, the data show.  The start of the earnings season has overshadowed recent
better-than-estimated U.S. economic data, including a drop in
the  unemployment  rate to 7.8 percent, according to a Labor
Department report last week. The jobless rate has become a focal
point in President  Barack Obama ’s bid for a second term. Vice
President  Joe Biden  and Republican  Paul Ryan  each said in a TV
debate yesterday that their parties’ proposals would bring the
rate below 6 percent.  Commodities Retreat  The S&P GSCI Index retreated 1 percent as 19 of 24
commodities declined. Crude oil slipped 21 cents to $91.86 a
barrel. Gasoline tumbled more than 3 percent in New York,
dropping for a second day. Global refiners will process 400,000
barrels a day less crude in the fourth quarter because of plant
halts and a lower demand outlook, the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency  said in a monthly report today. Corn fell from a
three-week high and soybeans declined after a government report
showed slowing demand for supplies from the U.S., the world’s
biggest grower and exporter.  The euro was stronger against 12 of 16 major peers while
retreating from its high of the day of almost $1.30 against the
dollar.  The 17-nation currency pared its advance and European
stocks extended losses after Reuters reported that the European
Stability Mechanism lacks the cash to bail out  Spain  if the
country asks for help before the end of the year. However,
guidelines obtained by  Bloomberg News  last month showed the fund
has the authority to raise funds through the sale of fixed-
income securities.  The Stoxx 600’s decline extended  this week’s drop  to 1.7
percent. The region’s equities fell for the fourth time in five
days as International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine
Lagarde  said global growth is not fast enough to curb
unemployment, and Chinese new lending missed estimates.  European Movers  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  slid 6.1 percent as Chief Executive Officer
Ton Buechner extended his leave from the company.  MAN SE fell
3.3 percent after the maker of vehicles and trucks said 2013
will be tougher than this year. Standard Chartered Plc and Axa
SA climbed as Deutsche Bank AG raised its rating for the banking
and insurance sectors.  Industrial production in the euro area rose 0.6 percent in
August from July, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today. Economists had projected a drop of 0.4
percent, the median of 36 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Economic growth in Germany will stagnate in the second half,
Bundesbank Jens Weidmann told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  “The market is nervously trying to focus on where the
growth is going to come from,”  James Bevan , chief investment
officer at London-based CCLA Investment Management Ltd.,  said
on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua .
“We know the central banks are prepared to print money. That’s
absolutely great. What we haven’t seen is any follow through
from the fundamental real economy.”  Spanish Yields  Spain’s two-year note yield dropped 14 basis points to 3.08
percent and 10-year rates declined 14 basis points to 5.63
percent. The nation wants there to be consensus among European
governments on any bailout request before deciding whether to
ask for help, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria
said yesterday.  The MSCI Emerging Market Index was little changed as
Brazil’s Bovespa increased 1.2 percent and Russia’s Micex lost a
similar amount. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng  gauge  advanced 0.7 percent
after state-run Central Huijin Investment Ltd. said it will
continue market operations after increasing stakes in the
nation’s banks.  Emerging Markets  The BSE India Sensitive 30  Index (SENSEX)  fell 0.7 percent as
Infosys Ltd. slumped the most in six months. The country’s
second-largest software services exporter cut its sales-growth
forecast and said higher wages and currency fluctuations will
hurt profitability.  The rand pared its first weekly advance in five. S&P
reduced South Africa’s long-term foreign currency rating to BBB
from BBB+ and the local-currency ranking was cut to A-. The
outlook for the rating was set at negative. The currency rallied
1 percent earlier today as South African truck drivers agreed to
end a strike.  China’s  yuan  strengthened for a 10th straight week,
touching the highest level in 19 years, on speculation the
government will announce measures to revive growth in the
world’s second-largest economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  