-- Asian Currencies Advance as Singapore Retains Appreciation Bias
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-10-12T09:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/asian-currencies-advance-as-singapore-retains-appreciation-bias.html
Asian currencies rose, adding to a
weekly advance, after  Singapore  unexpectedly kept its bias for
currency gains and U.S. jobless claims fell, spurring demand for
riskier assets.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore said in its bi-annual
policy review today it will maintain a modest and gradual
appreciation in its currency to contain inflation. Applications
for unemployment benefit in the U.S. dropped to 339,000 in the
week ended Oct. 6, the fewest since February 2008, data showed
yesterday. Gains in the Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index
were curbed this week after the  International Monetary Fund  cut
on Oct. 9 its projections for global expansion.  “The U.S. data overnight and the surprise move of the MAS
are positive for risk sentiment,” said Radhika Rao, an
economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “The downgrades in
emerging-market growth as well as advanced economies have
brought growth concerns to the forefront. Obviously that’s
limiting potential Asian currency gains.”  Singapore’s dollar strengthened 0.5 percent to S$1.2218
against the greenback as of 5:18 p.m. local time, boosting its
weekly advance to 0.6 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit appreciated 0.3 percent today to
3.0585, paring a decline in the past five days to 0.2 percent.
 China ’s  yuan  rose 0.2 percent for a weekly gain of 0.3 percent.  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies outside  Japan , advanced 0.3 percent today and
0.3 percent this week.  Inflation Risks  Singapore joins China and  India  in limiting monetary
stimulus as they guard against inflation risks even as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis weighs on the world economy. The MAS said
its policy remains appropriate to contain prices pressures and
ensure growth even after the local economy contracted last
quarter.  Five of 23 financial companies in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted the decision by Singapore’s central bank, with the
remainder forecasting a loosening of policy.  The world economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest since the 2009 recession, according to the IMF, compared
with a July prediction of 3.5 percent.  The ringgit rose the most in almost two weeks after
official data yesterday showed factory output declined less than
economists predicted.  ‘Remain Resilient’  Industrial  production  contracted 0.7 percent in August from
a year earlier, compared with the median estimate for a 2
percent drop in a Bloomberg survey. The economy is forecast by
the government to grow as much as 5 percent this year. The
central bank’s benchmark rate is 3 percent, compared with near-
zero in the U.S. and Japan.  “Malaysia’s economic fundamentals remain well supported by
resilient domestic demand,” said Yeah Kim Leng, chief economist
at RAM Holdings Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The ringgit will be well
supported in the short term. Capital inflows, together with the
positive interest-rate differential and rising investments will
help to offset the export slowdown.”  China’s yuan rose beyond 6.28 per dollar for the first time
in 19 years this week amid speculation the government will step
up measures to counter a slowdown. The People’s Bank of China
raised the  reference rate  by 0.2 percent today, the most since
March, to 6.3264.  Yuan Extends Rally  The currency had a 10th weekly advance as China asked local
authorities to spend more on public transport to ease congestion
and reduce pollution, according to a statement posted on the
central government’s website on Oct. 10 after a State Council
meeting presided by Premier  Wen Jiabao . The Chinese Communist
Party will hold a congress starting Nov. 8 at which new leaders
will be appointed ahead of a once-a-decade handover of power.  “Investors are speculating the government will announce
more measures after the Party Congress to avert a slowdown,”
said Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-based chief economist at CCB
International Securities Ltd., a unit of China’s second-largest
bank. “China’s economic growth will probably rebound in the
fourth quarter.”  Elsewhere in Asia,  Taiwan ’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to
NT$29.360 against the U.S. currency today and  South Korea ’s won
gained 0.3 percent to 1,111.30. Both were little changed from a
week ago.  Indonesia ’s rupiah climbed 0.1 percent today and for
the week to 9,580, while India’s rupee slid 1.6 percent in the
five days to 52.6750, set for the worst week since June. The
 Thai baht  dropped 0.3 percent to 30.64.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  