-- Asia-Pacific Policy Makers Have Scope to Ease Further, IMF Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-12T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/asia-pacific-policy-makers-have-scope-to-ease-further-imf-says.html
Policy makers in the Asia-Pacific
region have scope to further ease monetary policy to bolster
growth in the event the global economy sputters, the
International Monetary Fund said.  “Inflation expectations have remained well anchored in
most of Asia,” the IMF said in a regional economic report
today. “Should activity fail to pick up as projected, further
easing may be warranted” in countries including South Korea and
 Malaysia , while elevated consumer-price growth in India and
 Vietnam  “may limit the room for policy maneuver” in those
economies, it said.  Japan  may need more easing to accelerate
achievement of its 1 percent inflation goal, the fund said.  The scope to adjust interest rates varies across the
region, with Japan’s benchmark near zero and  Australia ’s at 3.25
percent, the highest among major developed nations.  Singapore ’s
central bank unexpectedly announced today it will leave monetary
policy unchanged to curb consumer price gains, while South Korea
yesterday lowered its  key rate  to 2.75 percent.  Asian nations should remain the world’s growth engine, said
the Washington-based lender, which is holding its annual meeting
in  Tokyo  this week. A sudden slowdown in China’s economy is
unlikely, even as “considerable” threats to the region linger
as  Europe  struggles to emerge from a crisis that’s restraining
world growth, the IMF said.  “While relatively strong economic and policy fundamentals
have helped buffer Asian economies against adverse market
spillovers, aggressive deleveraging by euro-area banks and
flight of capital to traditional safe havens could also severely
disrupt Asian financial systems,” it said.  Regional Slowdown  Asia’s growth is likely to slow to 5.4 percent this year,
about half a percentage point below the April forecast, from 5.8
percent last year, the IMF said in today’s Asia and Pacific
Regional Economic Outlook. Even so, the region will stay “the
global growth leader,” expanding more than 2 percentage points
faster than the world average, it said.  The fund cautioned that the Asia-Pacific region’s growth in
the next two or three years can’t be taken for granted as the
scale of recent slowdowns in large economies “raised concerns
that it might not be just cyclical.”  China ’s economy may expand this year at the slowest rate
since 1999, according to the median forecast of 45 economists in
a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Middle-Income Trap’  “Many Asian economies have now reached a development stage
that exposes them to the risk of falling into the ‘middle-income
trap,’ which is the phenomenon of hitherto rapidly growing
economies stagnating at middle-income levels and failing to
graduate into the ranks of high-income countries,” the IMF
said.  IMF projections show a one-in-seven chance Asia’s growth
will slow to below 4 percent in 2013, close to the rate in 2009,
the fund said.  Two cuts by China’s central bank to key interest rates this
year, three reductions in the reserve requirements for banks
since November and accelerated approvals for investment projects
haven’t been enough to reverse a deceleration in growth.  While a hard-landing for China “remains a low
probability,” it’s a “high-impact risk” for the region, the
IMF said. Each 1 percentage point decline in investment growth
in China would lower economic growth by more than half a
percentage point over four quarters in economies including South
Korea, Malaysia and  Taiwan , it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  