-- Asian Stocks Rise on Japan-China Dispute Talks, U.S. Data
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-10-12T10:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/asian-stocks-gain-on-u-s-jobless-claims-billabong-dips.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index headed for its first gain this week, after U.S.
jobless claims fell more than estimated and  China  and  Japan 
agreed to hold talks over a territorial dispute that has
disrupted trade between Asia’s biggest economies.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , a Japanese carmaker whose sales in
China slumped last month after rioters torched dealerships in
protests over disputed islands, added 1.1 percent.  China Cosco (1919) 
Holdings Co. climbed 8 percent, leading Chinese shipping
companies higher, after rates for hauling commodities rose.
Softbank Corp. plunged 17 percent, dragging the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average to a fourth day of declines, on talks to invest in loss-
making Sprint Nextel Corp.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 0.4 percent to 120.77 as
of 7:36 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than three shares rising for
every two that fell. The measure is poised for a 1.5 percent
slide this week, its biggest weekly drop since August, after the
International Monetary Fund cut its global growth forecasts and
Japanese car sales fell in China. The two countries have agreed
to hold talks to reduce tensions.  “It will take a while to fully recover the pre-dispute
situation, but at least we’re seeing some gradual improvement in
the China-Japan relations,” said  Yoji Takeda , who oversees
about $1.2 billion as head of Asian equities at RBC Investment
Management (Asia) Ltd. “As investors see more positive earnings
reports, people may start to turn confident. We’re seeing
moderate growth in the U.S. and the stock market there has held
up quite well.”  Stimulus Measures  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 5.7 percent this year
through yesterday as central banks from Europe to the U.S. and
Japan added stimulus measures to counter a global economic
slowdown and the  European debt crisis . The Asian benchmark
traded at 12.7 times  estimated earnings  on average, compared
with 13.7 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12 times
for the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index climbed 0.4 percent,
erasing losses of 0.2 percent. The country’s central bank
unexpectedly refrained from easing monetary policy even as the
economy contracted last quarter, saying inflation will remain
elevated for some time.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index advanced 0.7 percent. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index and  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added
0.1 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index was little changed.  The BSE  India  Sensitive Index slid 0.7 percent as a cut in
sales outlook for Infosys Ltd. outweighed a report showing the
nation’s industrial production rebounded in August.  ‘Sense of Crisis’  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 0.2 percent, erasing
gains of as much as 0.9 percent. Without the decline by Softbank
and clothier  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) , which plunged 9.9 percent, the
measure would have gained 1.4 percent today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s Economy Minister Seiji Maehara said he has a
“sense of crisis” as the government downgraded its economic
assessment for a third month, the longest streak since the 2009
global recession.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.2
percent today after the index closed little changed in New York
yesterday.  First-time applications for U.S. jobless benefits dropped
30,000 to 339,000 last week, the fewest since February 2008,
government data showed yesterday. Economists forecast 370,000
claims, according to a Bloomberg survey. One state accounted for
most of the drop, a Labor Department spokesman said.  Japanese carmakers advanced as Japan and China agreed to
hold talks over a territorial dispute that has disrupted trade
and resulted in a slump in China sales for Toyota, Nissan Motor
Co. and Honda Motor Co. last month. No date has been set for the
vice-ministerial level discussions, Japan’s foreign ministry
said yesterday.  Shipping Stocks  Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker by market value,
increased 1.1 percent to 2,934 yen in  Tokyo . Nissan rose 1.5
percent to 666 yen. Honda gained 0.8 percent to 2,338 yen.  China’s shipping companies advanced. Charter rates for
cape-sized vessels have risen 50 percent from mid-September
lows. Investor interest in the sector is returning because
“stocks are so bombed out and rates have started to recover
from lows,” Deutsche Bank AG analysts Joe Liew and Sky Hong
wrote in a note yesterday.  China Cosco, the nation’s biggest shipping company, jumped
8 percent to HK$3.66. China Shipping Development Co. gained 5.8
percent to HK$3.48.  Chinese lenders advanced. Banks are limiting discounts for
their best corporate clients to 10 percent of the benchmark
lending rate, officials at the top four lenders said, asking not
to be identified as they’re not authorized to speak publicly.
The central bank in July began allowing lenders to offer credit
at 30 percent less than the benchmark rates.  Banks Advance  Industrial & Commercial  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , the world’s
biggest lender by market value, rose 1.4 percent to HK$4.96.
China Construction Bank Corp., the country’s No. 2 lender,
gained 1.8 percent to HK$5.76.  Among stocks that fell, Billabong International Ltd.
tumbled 17 percent to 83.5 Australian cents, a record low, after
TPG International LLC withdrew a A$694 million ($713 million)
bid for the surfwear maker.  Softbank plunged 17 percent to 2,395 yen, its biggest
decline since January 1998, after Japan’s third-largest phone
operator said it’s in talks to invest in Sprint Nextel. CLSA
called the possible deal “a cause for concern,” citing
difficulty returning the U.S. company to profit.  Fast Retailing sank 9.9 percent to 16,040 yen after
forecasting annual profit below analyst estimates as a global
economic slowdown hurt sales of its Uniqlo branded apparel.  Infosys Ltd. fell 5.4 percent to 2,395.35 rupees as India’s
second-largest software services exporter cut its annual revenue
forecast and said higher wages and currency fluctuations will
hurt profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  