-- Cyrano Revived as Frat Boy Chasing Dumb Roxane: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/latest-cyrano-has-more-than-nose-out-of-joint-review.html
With his blank expression framed by
a stringy wig and an unflattering black ensemble that makes him
appear slightly paunchy and derelict,  Douglas Hodge  brings to
Broadway an unprecedented interpretation of the courtly Cyrano
de Bergerac as frat boy, in a production that could be an
episode of TV’s “ Arrested Development .”  Hodge, who won a Tony award for singing “I Am What I Am”
in a revival of “La Cage aux Folles,” lacks any of the
qualities that make that dashing schnozzy Gascon resonate with
men and women.  Here is a hero, after all, whose skill set includes
Olympian swordsmanship and Shakespearean wordsmanship. He’s been
a regular visitor to Broadway in the century since Edmond
Rostand created him.  In this  Roundabout Theatre  presentation, it’s impossible to
think of him single-handedly dispatching, as Cyrano does, 100
challengers. The first would leave this fellow gasping for air.  Cyrano loves his smart, beautiful young cousin Roxane,
played by Clemence Poesy as a spoiled brat. He believes his
outlandish proboscis (here more grossly porcine than usual)
prevents anyone from loving him.  Handsome Dolt  Roxane loves Christian, a newly arrived cadet in the
company Cyrano leads. Christian, played by Kyle Soller with
unattractively matted hair, is a handsome dolt. Cyrano gallantly
offers to be his voice in wooing her.  Make of their motives what you will, most stagings of
“Cyrano” play this dual effort as a matter of comic poignance:
Cyrano accepting surrogacy over invisibility; Christian
recognizing in Cyrano the voice that will make him appear worthy
of Roxane.  In Ranjit Bolt’s witless translation, their efforts are
more about getting into Roxane’s pants than into her heart.  “Alone, we neither of us stand a chance -- combined, we
could get any girl in  France !” Cyrano tells Christian. “I
mean, suppose we two seduce her jointly, compositely woo?”  Those were among the few lines I could make out; so many of
Cyrano’s ripostes were inaudible and delivered at warp speed
that it’s difficult to figure out how the show takes two hours
and 40 minutes getting to the good part. That’s when Roxane
(perhaps not so sharp as reputed) realizes who her true love was
all along.  Cavernous Set  Soutra Gilmour’s shadowy, cavernous set suggests a
catacombs beneath the streets of 17th-century Paris. The
director, Jamie Lloyd, might have moved the action closer to the
stage apron and slowed the pace ever so slightly. But clarity
would only have emphasized an adaptation peppered with
anachronisms and banal rhymes, as in:  “And then of course...And then of course there is...  That utterly amazing nose of his!  You see it and you can’t help crying out:  “‘Jumping Jehosaphat! What’s that about?’”  Several supporting roles are nicely played, chief among
them Patrick Page as the villainous Comte de Guiche and Max
Baker as Le Bret, Cyrano’s faithful champion. And I can’t say
enough about Japhy Weideman’s beautiful lighting, a palette of
fading sunshine filtered through Paris grit and, later, rural
mist. If only they were enough to make up for this deflating
misfire.  Through Nov. 25 at the American Airlines Theatre, 227 W.
42nd St. Information: +1-212-719-1300;
 http://www.roundabouttheatre.org . Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on books and  New York 
 Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 