-- Dewey, Skadden, Bingham, Cooley, Foley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-12T11:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/baker-mckenzie-bingham-cooley-business-of-law.html
An effort by the official partners’
committee of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP to compel appointment of an
examiner was “for an improper purpose as a litigation tactic,”
a bankruptcy judge said Oct. 9 in approving a $71.5 million
settlement with former partners. Two days later, the firm filed
papers asking the judge to disband the official partners’
committee.  In papers filed yesterday, Dewey said the original decision
by the U.S. Trustee to appoint an official committee
representing former partners “was a misstep that needs to be
corrected.” The firm characterized the committee as not having
“contributed in a productive way to this bankruptcy case.”  Lawyers for the partners’ committee have generated $780,000
in fees “without any corresponding benefit to the estate,”
Dewey said in its filing.  “The motion is a cold-hearted and cynical attempt to
disenfranchise the most vulnerable victims of Dewey’s
bankruptcy,” David M. Friedman, counsel for the partners’
committee, said in an e-mail. Friedman, a partner at Kasowitz
Benson Torres & Friedman LLP, predicted the motion to disband
“will fail.”  In his opinion this week approving the settlement between
the firm and more than 400 partners, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Martin Glenn said the official partners committee did “whatever
it could to scuttle any proposed” settlement.  The firm takes the position that former partners have no
economic interest in the case. They are “out of the money,”
according to court papers, because any claim by a partner can
only be paid after unsecured creditors are fully paid. At this
point, the official unsecured creditors’ committee adequately
represents the interests of partners, Dewey said.  Glenn will hold a hearing on Nov. 1 to decide if the
committee should be disbanded.  In turning down the official committee’s motion for an
examiner, Glenn said the committee hadn’t shown there to be the
required $5 million in undisputed unsecured claims. In
yesterday’s motion to disband the committee, Dewey said it
estimates there are “at least $500 million in allowed secured
and general unsecured claims.”  Dewey has two official committees, one for unsecured
creditors and the other for former partners. The firm once had
1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May.  There was secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of bankruptcy, the
firm said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and
liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Deals  Skadden, Foley Advise Oshkosh on $3 Billion Icahn Offer  Carl Icahn , the billionaire activist investor, offered to
buy  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK)  for about $3 billion, saying management of the
military vehicles supplier has failed to deliver on pledges to
improve profitability.  Oshkosh said it will consult with financial and legal
advisers and notify shareholders of its position within 10
business days of receiving an offer.  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Foley &
Lardner LLP are serving as legal advisers. Skadden mergers and
acquisitions partners Gary Cullen and Richard Grossman lead the
team. From Foley, transactional and securities partners Patrick G. Quick and John K. Wilson are advising Oshkosh.  Icahn is being advised by in-house attorneys at his
company, the American Lawyer reported.  The $32.50-a-share offer is 21 percent more than the
Oshkosh, Wisconsin-based company’s Oct. 10 closing price, Icahn
said yesterday in a statement. Icahn said he intends to nominate
directors for election to Oshkosh’s board at the company’s
annual meeting, with his offer conditional on those directors
being elected.  Oshkosh, which supplies blast-resistant trucks to the U.S.
Army and Marine Corps, posted a 66 percent drop in net income
last year as its sales shrank with the end of the war in  Iraq 
and the U.S.’s plans to withdraw troops from  Afghanistan . Icahn,
Oshkosh’s largest investor with a  9.5 percent  stake, has
criticized the firm’s executives for the poor performance.  “Management has taken a passive attitude to the future of
this company, willing to sit back and watch what happens to the
defense, housing and construction industries,” Icahn said in
the statement. “Oshkosh needs proactive shareholders to bring a
proactive management team together to weather a volatile
economy, a shrinking defense industry and a budget constrained
municipal environment.”  For more, click here.  Firm News  Baker & McKenzie Elects New Management from Around the World  Baker & McKenzie  said Sydney partner Bruce Hambrett and
Toronto partner Jim Holloway were elected to serve on its
executive committee.  Hambrett and Holloway succeed Jeremy Pitts in  Tokyo  and
Alan Harvey in  Dallas , whose terms ended. Hambrett, who joined
the firm in 2004, has been the chairman of Baker & McKenzie,
 Australia  since 2009 and also was head of the Australian
insolvency and restructuring group.  Holloway has been managing partner of the firm’s Toronto
office since 2007. He focuses on intellectual property law,
particularly in relation to trademark, patent, copyright and
trade-secret disputes. He joined the firm immediately after
graduating from law school in 1991, Baker & McKenzie said in a
statement.  The executive committee is Baker & McKenzie’s primary
management team, with responsibility for developing and
implementing the firm’s global business strategy, as well as
managing the day-to-day business. It consists of eight elected
partners, including the chairman, Eduardo Leite.  Leite said in a statement that he’s confident the new
leaders’ experience and skills will “move forward our strategy
and focus on becoming a more client-driven and performance-based
firm.”  In other management news, current executive committee
member Winston Zee in Hong Kong was elected chairman of the Asia
Pacific Regional Council. Zee joined the firm in 1981 and the
executive committee in 2010.  The firm also announced several new practice leaders.  Simon Hughes  will become chair of the private-equity practice group
and Ashok Lalwani assumes the chair of the India focus group.
Pitts will be chair of the newly formed global financial
institutions industry group. Erik Scheer takes over as chair of
the global tax practice group.  The firm said its worldwide fee income was $2.31 billion in
the fiscal year that ended June 30.  The management changes were announced at the firm’s annual
meeting, held this year in New York. Almost 700 partners from 71
offices in 44 countries attended. The firm has more than 4,000
lawyers.  Moves  Bingham, Manatt, K&L Gates, Cooley Hire New Partners  Law firms hired new partners at offices in Washington, New
York, Chicago and Sacramento,  California , in a range of
practices, including regulatory, corporate, litigation and
environment and energy.  Bingham McCutchen LLP said former White House deputy
counsel John Schmitz will join the global regulatory and
transactional practice and Bingham Consulting LLC. Schmitz will
be a partner and principal in Bingham Consulting in the
Washington office.  Before joining Bingham, Schmitz served as managing partner
of Schmitz Global Partners, a consulting firm with offices in
Washington and Berlin, representing U.S. and European companies
in international transactions and regulatory matters.  Schmitz served as a partner at  Mayer Brown  LLP from 1993 to
2009 and was the founding partner of the firm’s offices in
 Germany . Before joining Mayer Brown, Schmitz served as deputy
counsel to President  George H. W. Bush  from 1989 to 1993.  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP announced that Harry W.R.
Chamberlain II joined the firm’s Sacramento office as a partner
in the litigation division. Chamberlain was previously at
Buchalter Nemer in  Los Angeles , the firm said.  He has experience in appellate and insurance work, focusing
his practice on appellate and regulatory law, complex litigation
and employment law.  Scott R. Miller joined Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton
LLP as a partner in the intellectual property practice group,
based in the firm’s Los Angeles office. Miller joins from
Connolly Bove Lodge & Hutz LLP, where he was partner-in-charge
of the Los Angeles office and a member of the firm’s management
committee, Sheppard Mullin said.  Mitchell G. Mandell joined White & Williams LLP as a
partner in the commercial litigation and financial restructuring
and bankruptcy groups in the New York office. He previously was
a partner at Norris McLaughlin & Marcus PA, where he headed the
New York office litigation practice group.  Mandell has more than 25 years’ experience handling
commercial litigation matters and corporate transactions and
specializes in the resolution of global commercial disputes,
involving both foreign and domestic businesses.  The Chicago office of K&L Gates LLP added Donald E. Bingham
as a partner in its finance practice. Bingham joins the firm
from Sidley Austin LLP.  Bingham focuses his practice in the areas of commercial
lending, intellectual property finance,  capital markets  and
structured finance transactions.  Cooley LLP announced that Scott S. Balber joined the firm
as a partner in its New York office. Balber was co-chair of
Chadbourne & Parke LLP’s commercial litigation practice. He
joins Cooley’s business litigation practice group as head of
financial services litigation.  Balber’s clients include financial institutions, as both
plaintiffs and defendants in complex commercial cases, as well
as in connection with securities class actions and regulatory
matters.  McCarter & English LLP hired Marshall B. McLean as special
counsel in the environment and energy and corporate practice
groups. He will be based in the firm’s Newark, New Jersey,
office. McLean previously was an associate in the corporate and
securities and energy and natural resources groups of  Reed Smith
LLP  in Princeton, New Jersey.  McLean represents developers, manufacturers and investors
in the renewable  energy industry . His work in this area includes
the Solar Energy Generating Systems projects in California and
the Riverside Renewable Energy project in Gloucester City, New
Jersey. McLean has advised on wind projects as well, including
the Alta project in Mojave, California.  McLean also maintains a traditional corporate practice
focused on mid-market mergers and acquisition matters, including
corporate finance,  securities law  and regulatory compliance.  Trials  Hartford Faces Lawyer’s Claim Involving Treasury Official  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  went to trial in a
lawsuit by a Texas lawyer who accuses the insurer of causing him
to be prosecuted on bribery charges that were dropped after a
mistrial.  The negligence lawsuit includes the lawyer’s accusation
that the company’s former general counsel, Neal S. Wolin, now
U.S. deputy treasury secretary, took part in a cover-up linked
to alleged extortion by two employees, according to court
filings.  Todd Hoeffner, the lawyer seeking $25 million in damages,
sued the Hartford, Connecticut-based insurer in state court in
Houston. Wolin, who isn’t named as a defendant in the lawsuit,
testified against Hoeffner in a 2009 criminal trial that ended
with a deadlocked jury. Wolin’s testimony will be part of the
 jury trial  that began yesterday with opening statements by
lawyers.  Hoeffner was charged with making illegal payments to two
claims processors to get inflated insurance settlements for
clients suffering from silicosis. The charges followed an
internal company investigation ordered by Wolin and given to
federal prosecutors, according to court records.  Jurors at the 2009 trial couldn’t reach a verdict.
Hoeffner, later faced with new charges that didn’t include
bribery, agreed to pay prosecution costs and the criminal case
was dropped.  Hoeffner sued Hartford in October 2011 on claims the
insurer lied to the government about him. The motive, he said,
was to hide the claims processors’ extortion of $3 million from
the portion of the settlements paid to him as legal fees. He
accuses Hartford of negligence, economic duress, interference
with his attorney-client relationships and intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  Hartford protected the employees to keep them from telling
regulators the company lacked sufficient cash reserves to pay
asbestos-related claims at the time of the scheme, and Wolin
participated in the cover-up, Hoeffner said in court filings.  Wolin, through his attorney, denied Hoeffner’s allegations
and said that when he learned of what appeared to be a bribery
scheme involving rogue workers, he ordered company investigators
to dig into the matter.  The case is Sanchez v. Hoeffner, 2010-15489, 133rd Judicial
District Court of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Stephen King Agent Sued by Lawyer for $1 Million Over Firing  A lawyer who said he represented  Stephen King  for more than
30 years sued the author’s agent, Arthur Greene, for at least $1
million in damages over his firing.  Jay D. Kramer was fired March 30, shortly after Greene and
his wife met with King, according to the lawsuit filed yesterday
in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan. Kramer said he and
Greene had been discussing the splitting of commissions.  Greene, who also acted as King’s accountant, and his wife,
Susan Greene, were “motivated by resentment toward Mr. Kramer”
and “greed,” according to the complaint.  “Defendants’ misrepresentations and other misdeeds and the
resulting improper termination of Mr. Kramer have also damaged
his reputation in the entertainment industry,” a lawyer for
Kramer, David M. Schreier, said in the complaint.  King was the world’s second-highest-earning author in the
past year, grossing about $39 million, trailing only  James
Patterson , according to Forbes.com. Greene, in a telephone
interview, said he represents King and that Kramer “worked for
me.” He declined to comment further.  Greene retained Kramer on King’s behalf in 1978, according
to the complaint. Kramer later worked independently of Greene on
publishing agreements and other work, he claimed.  The case is Kramer v. Greene, 653567-2012, New York State
Supreme Court, County of New York (Manhattan).  On The Docket  Goldman Sachs’s Tourre Gets July 15 Trial Date in SEC Suit  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Fabrice Tourre will go to trial
July 15 in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s lawsuit
accusing him of misleading investors in a collateralized debt
obligation.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in Manhattan set the
trial date yesterday at the end of a hearing in which an SEC
lawyer argued that she should reinstate some claims against
Tourre that another judge dismissed earlier in the case.  Last year, U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones threw out some
of the SEC’s claims after Tourre argued that he couldn’t be held
liable under U.S. securities law for transactions that occurred
outside the country.  The SEC argued yesterday that the claims should be
reinstated because of a recent appeals court ruling that applied
a broader definition of “domestic securities transaction” than
the one used by Jones. Tourre’s case was assigned to Forrest
last week.  Tourre, 33, who is studying for a Ph.D. in economics at the
 University of Chicago , wasn’t present in the courtroom
yesterday. His lawyer,  Pamela Chepiga , a partner at Allen &
Overy LLP, told Forrest that she will check with her client to
make sure there is no conflict between his exams and the trial
date.  The SEC sued Goldman Sachs and Tourre in April 2010. The
New York-based investment bank agreed in July 2010 to pay $550
million to settle the allegations against it.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  