-- Bank Debt Risk Drops as Funding Costs Match Top-Rated Companies
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-10-12T14:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/bank-debt-risk-drops-as-funding-costs-match-top-rated-companies.html
Banks’ credit risk fell for a third
day as the unlimited cash that European leaders pumped into
lenders pushed their borrowing costs down to the same level as
the best-rated companies for the first time in 2 1/2-years.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers dropped four basis
points to 177 basis points at 3:50 p.m. in  London  after reaching
a 14-month low of 175. The yield premium on bank bonds relative
to German state debt narrowed to 134 basis points, the same as
company notes, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  The  European Central Bank ’s efforts to save the euro
including cheap loans for euro-region lenders are helping
bolster banks’ balance sheets and win back investor confidence.
Banks and insurers led by  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
raised 5.7 billion euros ($7.4 billion) from bonds in the
busiest week of sales by financial firms in more than a month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is an overall boost as the market recognizes the
improvements in banks’ balance sheets and their funding
requirements decline,” said Roger Francis, an analyst at Mizuho
International Plc in London. “However, looking at averages
conceals sound conditions in core Europe and continued weakness
in other areas.”  Spread Shrinks  The yield premium on  Europe ’s banks is the lowest since
April 2011 and is half the spread at the start of the year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  EUR Corporates,
Banking index . Until November 2009, bank spreads were typically
less than those on non-financial companies, the index data show.  Yield spreads on bonds of lenders in the euro area’s
periphery such as Spain and Italy have also narrowed, though the
gap is still about 415 basis points more than benchmark rates,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Periphery
Financial  index .  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings declined three basis
points to 126. A fall signals improvement in perceptions of
 credit quality . Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index
of 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 11
basis points to 535, the lowest since Oct. 5.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Italy’s biggest utility  Enel SpA (ENEL)  and  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  led
price fallers among investment-grade corporate securities this
week. Enel’s 5 percent bonds due 2022 fell 1.9 percent, the
biggest weekly drop in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU
Corporates index, while Telecom Italia’s notes maturing 2022
slid 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  