-- Biden Focuses on Contrast With Ryan in Republican’s Home State
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-10-12T20:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/biden-focuses-on-contrast-with-ryan-in-republican-s-home-state.html
Vice President Joe Biden went to
Paul Ryan’s home state a day after debating the Republican vice
presidential nominee to reinforce the differences between the
two parties on Afghanistan, abortion rights and taxes.  Biden and Ryan, a U.S. representative from Janesville, in
southeast  Wisconsin , clashed on issues of national security and
U.S. economic growth in last night’s debate.  While Biden praised Ryan today at the University of
Wisconsin in La Crosse as “a decent guy” and family man, he
said the debate left no doubt “we have a fundamentally
different vision for America, a fundamentally different value
set.”  Biden’s trip to Wisconsin follows a visit by President
 Barack Obama  on Sept. 23, as the Democratic campaign works to
ensure that that it doesn’t lose a reliably Democratic state
with its native son as Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ’s running mate. A CBS News/New York Times/Quinnipiac
University poll conducted Oct. 4-9 showed Obama ahead, 50
percent to 47 percent, down from 51 percent to 45 percent the
month before.  “I made it clear that we are leaving  Afghanistan  in 2014,
period,” Biden said. It’s time for Afghan forces “to step up
in defense of their nation” and for them “to stand up as we
draw down.”  Biden also highlighted the contrast with Romney and Ryan
over reproductive rights. “It was made very clear that they
don’t believe a woman has the right to control their own body,”
he said.  On taxes, Biden argued that proposals from the Republicans
would result in the typical middle-income family paying $2,000
more in  federal taxes .  Last night was the only debate between the two vice
presidential candidates. Obama and Romney will face off twice
more. The next event will be Oct. 16 in Hempstead, New York,
followed by a foreign-policy debate Oct. 22 in Boca Raton,
 Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in La Crosse, Wisconsin, at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  