-- Both Campaigns Predict More Aggressive Obama at Debate
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-10-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/biden-shifted-momentum-back-to-obama-strickland-says.html
Top surrogates for  Barack Obama  and
 Mitt Romney  predicted a more aggressive Obama will show up for
the second presidential debate in  New York  next week, while they
disagreed sharply about Vice President  Joe Biden ’s performance.  “The president just simply needs to hold Mitt Romney
accountable for his lack of truth-telling,” former  Ohio 
Governor  Ted Strickland , a Democrat and co-chairman of Obama’s
campaign, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend. “If he
simply does that, he will emerge in a very strong position.”  Strickland said Biden’s aggressive posture in the Oct. 11
vice presidential debate against Romney’s running mate,
Representative  Paul Ryan , gave Democrats “a reason to feel
energized” heading into the second Obama-Romney debate Oct. 16
at Hofstra University in Hempstead, New York.  Former  New Hampshire  Governor John H. Sununu, a top Romney
surrogate, said he anticipated “a different Barack Obama” next
week, while predicting that a strategy of mimicking Biden’s
debate style would backfire.  Many Democrats panned Obama’s
performance at the first match-up in Denver on Oct. 3, saying
the president didn’t challenge Romney forcefully enough.  “They’re probably showing him tapes of Biden’s disgraceful
performance and suggesting to him he ought to get wired like
that,” Sununu, speaking from  Cleveland , told Bloomberg. “If
they’re energized by that grotesque display, all the better for
it.”  ‘Cheshire Cat’  Sununu said Biden acted as though he were “on steroids”
and added, “He looked like the Cheshire cat at times and then
he looked like the gawker and the stalker.”  Speaking from Danville,  Kentucky , the site of the vice
presidential debate, Strickland disputed Republicans’ assertion
that Biden’s facial expressions were reminiscent of then-
Democratic presidential nominee  Al Gore ’s criticism-drawing
sighs during his first debate with Republican  George W. Bush  in
2000.  “When Mitt Romney interrupted last week, those same people
were applauding Mitt Romney’s behavior,” he said. “I think
there’s a little bit of a political bias going on with this
criticism.”  Strickland, 71, said Biden provided a “mature, insightful,
definitive” explanation of the administration’s foreign policy
in the debate. He said Biden’s promise that U.S. troops will
leave Afghanistan in 2014 was “a high point.”  ‘Inadequate, Uninformed’  In contrast, Ryan seemed “inadequate, uninformed,”
Strickland said. He said Romney’s criticism of Obama in the
immediate aftermath of the Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. consulate
in Benghazi,  Libya , was “reprehensible.”  Sununu, meanwhile, said Biden tried to “throw the
intelligence community under the bus.”  “The State Department had earlier in the day talked about
the fact that -- that they knew almost immediately that this was
an organized attack, and for Biden to claim the intelligence was
bad, shame on him, shame on Obama,” Sununu said.  At their rematch, “I expect the same Mitt Romney,” Sununu
said. “Mitt is pretty consistent.” He said Obama looked
“unprepared” during the first meeting.  Strickland predicted Obama will attack Romney as a
politician without “a core set of beliefs that he’s willing to
stand up for.”  “In that regard, he is a flip-flopper,” Strickland said
of Romney. “But he also has allowed himself during this primary
season to take on the most extreme positions of the right
wing.”  Massachusetts Governor  Obama “needs to make sure that Mitt Romney does not get by
with shading or distorting or twisting the truth,” Strickland
said, citing Romney’s account that he achieved bipartisan
success as governor of  Massachusetts  from 2003 to 2007.  While the Massachusetts health-care plan was enacted when
Romney was governor, “it’s no secret that Democrats were going
to support him as he was trying to pass a bill that would
provide health care to his citizens,” he said. Still,
Strickland said, “they don’t like him” in Massachusetts.
“When he left office he was very unpopular.”  Romney “is doing is the smart thing” by not pursuing
votes in Massachusetts, said Sununu, 73.  “They’re contesting in those states that - that have a
significant percentage of Republicans registered and some
intelligent Democrats and have a history of - of having
independents that - that are very receptive to a conservative
message,” he said.  Clinching the State  Both advocates predicted their party’s candidate would
clinch their home state.  “I will again stick out my neck and say that Mitt Romney
will win New Hampshire by two to three points,” Sununu said.  Strickland said Obama’s prospects in Ohio are strong enough
to match his four percentage-point victory over Republican  John McCain  in the state four years ago. Obama won the state 51-47
percent.  “If the president wins 51 to 47, I’ll be a happy guy and
the president will be re-elected to a second term,” Strickland
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  