-- Billionaire Mallya Is Issued Warrant on Kingfisher Checks
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-10-12T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/billionaire-mallya-is-issued-warrant-on-kingfisher-checks.html
Vijay Mallya, the billionaire
chairman of  Kingfisher (KAIR)  Airlines Ltd., may face arrest after
failing to appear at a court hearing about the cash-strapped
carrier bouncing checks.  A court in Hyderabad, in southern  India , issued warrants
for Mallya and four other executives,  GMR Hyderabad
International Airport Ltd. (GMRI)  said in a statement yesterday. The
airport operator initially filed a complaint because of four bad
checks totaling 105 million rupees ($2 million), it said.  The order comes as liquor tycoon Mallya seeks investments
for Bangalore-based Kingfisher, which has struggled to pay bills
and wages for at least a year after posting five straight annual
 losses . The carrier halted operations on Oct. 1, when engineers
and pilots walked out, demanding that seven months of unpaid
salaries be settled.  “The warrant doesn’t mean Mallya is going to be arrested
immediately,” said D. B. Goswami, a lawyer in private practice,
who works on cases before India’s  Supreme Court . “Check bounce
is a criminal offense, but it isn’t something that’s out of the
ordinary.”  Mallya can seek a cancellation of the warrant or request
bail, Goswami said. Kingfisher Air hasn’t received any warrants,
Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman at the carrier, said in a
statement.  Labor Dispute  A partial lockout, which Kingfisher had planned to end
yesterday, is being extended through Oct. 20, Mirpuri said in a
separate statement. The airline is “continuing to work with”
employees to resolve the labor dispute, and it called on workers
to halt the strike. Kingfisher is “hopeful” of resuming
flights on Oct. 21, Mirpuri said.  Kingfisher  fell  0.4 percent to 11.40 rupees at the close in
Mumbai. Distiller  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , Mallya’s biggest company
by sales, dropped 2 percent. The benchmark BSE India  Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  lost 0.7 percent. Kingfisher, named for Mallya’s flagship
beer brand, has dropped 29 percent this month.  India’s aviation regulator has asked the carrier why its
permit shouldn’t be canceled or suspended following the
shutdown. Kingfisher may be allowed to resume operations if it
has staff to operate at least five planes, two officials at the
aviation ministry said yesterday, asking not to be identified,
citing rules. The carrier’s license can’t be canceled based on
the current situation, they said.  Wealth Ranking  Mallya was ranked India’s 45th richest person with a net
worth of $1 billion by Forbes magazine in March. The 56-year-old
tycoon owns a 95-meter (312-foot) yacht called the Indian
Empress, a stake in the country’s only Formula One racing team
and a  cricket  squad named Royal Challengers Bangalore.  Kingfisher defaulted on  loans  and interest payments on
several occasions in the year ended March 31, the company’s
auditor said in the airline’s annual report. The carrier had
total debt of 86 billion rupees as of March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Mallya gave personal guarantees totaling
59 billion rupees for Kingfisher’s loans, according to the
company’s annual report.  The airline is in discussions with overseas carriers as it
tries to sell a stake, Mallya has said. He is also in talks to
sell a stake in United Spirits to  Diageo Plc. (DGE)   Kingfisher has 10 operational planes, comprising seven
 Airbus SAS (EAD)  A320s and three Avions de Transport Regional
turboprop aircraft. It has enough staff for 60 planes, according
to Arun Mishra, the director general of civil aviation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  