-- BMW Letting U.S. Lessees Skip Payments in October Offer
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/bmw-letting-u-s-lessees-skip-payments-in-october-offer.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , falling
behind  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz in U.S. luxury auto sales, is
introducing an incentive program through the end of this month
that lets lease owners skip payments if they buy a new vehicle.  BMW is mailing offers to current lease owners of most of
the vehicles in its 2010 model-year lineup that allows the
customers to waive as many as three payments to buy a new or
certified-used model, according to an Oct. 10 notice sent to
dealers. The program, through BMW Financial Services, runs
through Oct. 31.  After a 7 percent sales gain in September, Mercedes
extended its lead over BMW to 5,221 deliveries through the
year’s first nine months in the race to be the No. 1 U.S. luxury
auto brand. BMW last year outsold Mercedes and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus , which at that time was hurt by vehicle shortages
following natural disasters in  Asia . Lexus had been the top-
selling luxury brand in the U.S. for 11 years.  Eligible models for BMW’s lease pull-ahead program include
the 1 Series and 3 Series sedans, plus the 5 Series, 6 Series
and 7 Series cars. The X3, X5 and X6 sport-utility vehicles also
qualify. Models not eligible include M versions and 3 Series
coupes and convertibles.  BMW Financial Services has introduced a lease pull-ahead
program three times this year, Mike Geylin, a spokesman for the
finance unit who works for Kermich-Geylin Public Relations Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. The initiative that runs through
Oct. 31 is similar to efforts BMW made last year, he said.  “A lot of manufacturers do it,” Geylin said yesterday.  Demo Allowance  BMW introduced Specialty Demo Allowance deals late in July
offering total payments ranging from $2,500 for some 2012 5
Series models to $7,000 for the 2012 7 Series, according to a
July 31 notice sent to dealers. The allowances, which also were
available for the 2012 3 Series, were kept in place in August,
according to an Aug. 14 e-mail to dealers.  The incentives helped Munich-based BMW narrow Mercedes’s
lead in U.S. sales to just 104 vehicle deliveries through July,
according to statements from the automakers. BMW beat Mercedes
last year by 2,715 deliveries.  The sales figures exclude Stuttgart, Germany-based
Daimler’s Sprinter vans and Smart cars and BMW’s Mini brand,
which aren’t  luxury vehicles .  BMW has reduced incentives by 4.8 percent so far this year
to $3,418 a vehicle, according to Autodata Corp. The automaker
is still spending 37 percent more per vehicle than the industry
average on discounts and promotions, the  Woodcliff Lake , New
Jersey-based researcher said in an e-mailed statement.  Mercedes Incentives  Mercedes has surpassed BMW in incentive spending through
the year’s first nine months, boosting discounts by 11 percent
to $3,582, or 44 percent more than the industry average.  Ludwig Willisch, head of BMW’s U.S. operations, in an
interview last month reiterated that his brand will remain on
top for the year, helped by a new all-wheel-drive version of the
3 Series and new X1, a vehicle that’s a step below BMW’s X3
midsize SUV.  Luxury auto makers previously have boosted incentives
toward the end of a year. In November 2011, Mercedes offered to
pull current customers out of their leases as much as eight
months early to get them into new vehicles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  