-- Brazil's Arabica Discount Narrows as ICE Futures Slide
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-12T10:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/brazil-s-arabica-discount-narrows-as-ice-futures-slide.html
Buyers of arabica coffee from
 Brazil , the world’s largest producer, are getting a smaller
discount after futures retreated this week, according to brokers
Flavour Coffee and Cazarini Trading Co.  Fine-cup quality beans were trading at a discount of 8
cents a pound to the price on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York ,
Flavour Coffee said in a report e-mailed yesterday. That
compares with 13 cents a pound last week. Good-cup quality
coffee was at a discount of 17 cents a pound from 21 cents a
pound last week, data from the broker showed. Fine-cup beans are
usually more expensive because of their taste profile.  “Brazil differentials started tightening again,” Thiago Cazarini, a broker at Cazarini Trading in Varginha, Brazil, said
in a report e-mailed yesterday, referring to the discount or a
premium paid to obtain physical coffee in relation to the price
on the futures market. “Most of the buyers also stayed side-
lined” with few transactions reported, he said.  Arabica coffee futures slid 4.4 percent over the past week
as coffee trees in Brazil started to flower before the 2013-14
crop. Rains that reached Brazil’s growing areas yesterday and
will last throughout the weekend will help to ensure that the
buds don’t abort, favoring a good crop next year.  “The market has lost a lot with good volumes of rains and
flowering in Brazil,” Cazarini said. “Uncertainty of a good
weather pattern for next year’s production is gone.”  Cold Front  A cold front that is moving past the southeast of Brazil is
bringing showers to the coffee belt, forecaster Somar
Meteorologia in  Sao Paulo  said in a report e-mailed yesterday.
The front will start to weaken on Oct. 14 while scattered
showers will continue in the country’s coffee belt, Marcio
Custodio, forecast operating director said. Another cold front
is forecast for after Oct. 18, he said.  “These rains are most welcome as to help fixing the small
buds soon after flowering,” Flavour Coffee said.  Conillons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known, were at a
premium of 15 cents a pound ($331 a metric ton) to the price on
the NYSE Liffe exchange in London, down from 20 cents a pound
last week, according to Flavour Coffee data.  “Offers remain with high premiums over Liffe, attracting
no buyers at all,” Flavour Coffee said.  Robusta coffee for November delivery was down 0.9 percent
to $2,057 a ton by 11 a.m. in  London . Arabica coffee for
December delivery was unchanged at $1.6075 a pound in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 