-- Brown-Warren Pact Undone as Outside Groups See Loopholes
-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 2012-10-12T20:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/brown-warren-pact-undone-as-outside-groups-see-loopholes.html
Independent political groups are
finding ways around the pledge by Republican Senator Scott Brown
and Democratic challenger  Elizabeth Warren  to keep outside money
out of their hard-fought U.S. Senate campaign.  The  League of Conservation Voters , Americans for  Tax Reform 
and Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies have spent more than
$1 million on robo-calls, direct mail and door-to-door
canvassing in the last three weeks trying to influence what
political strategists say is a pivotal race in the fight for
control of the chamber.  The groups are working in the state even though the two
candidates signed a pledge in January announcing that they
didn’t want outside groups advertising in their race. The Brown-
Warren agreement says that, in the case of an independent
political group spending money advertising on behalf of one
candidate, the beneficiary has three days to use campaign funds
to donate half the amount spent to charity.  The three groups aren’t spending on television ads, so they
aren’t violating the pledge, said Jeff Gohringer, a spokesman
for the League of Conservation Voters.  “We did not break the pledge,” he said. “The pledge
doesn’t cover mail.”  Direct Mail  The league has already spent more than $500,000 on direct
mail and door-to-door canvassing and plans to spend twice that
before Election Day.  In one of its mailings, the League of Conservation Voters
accused Brown of taking contributions from  oil  companies and
voting to protect their tax breaks.  The brochure included a photo of Brown and his pickup truck
with its bed filled with cash. “ Scott Brown  voted 3 times to
give your tax dollars to big oil and got a truckload of money
from them,” it read.  Crossroads has spent about $50,000 on robo-calls to
Massachusetts voters, according to filings with the  Federal
Election Commission .  The call, a recording of which was posted on the Mother
Jones magazine’s website, warns voters that “a vote for Warren
is a vote for the same kind of government failure that got us
into the situation we’re in today.” It then says Warren would
cut Medicare benefits.  Crossroads spokesman Jonathan Collegio didn’t respond to an
e-mail request for more information.  Tax Pledge  Americans for Tax Reform, a Washington-based group that
advocates for lower taxes, has spent about $400,000 on at least
three separate mailings opposing Warren starting on Sept. 19,
according to FEC records. ATR, headed by  Grover Norquist , urges
candidates to sign a pledge not to raise taxes. Brown has signed
it while Warren hasn’t, according to the group’s website.  John Kartch , a spokesman for ATR, didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  Spokesmen for Warren, 63, and Brown, 53, didn’t respond to
calls and e-mail seeking comment on whether these political
activities violated their campaign pledge.  The actions by the outside groups aren’t surprising given
the limits to the candidates’ pledge, said  Paul Ryan , senior
counsel at the Campaign Legal Center, a Washington-based group
that advocates for transparency in elections.  ‘Entirely Predictable’  “The use of media not covered by the agreement was
entirely predictable when the agreement was signed,” Ryan said.
“It was pretty narrow in its coverage.”  Warren, a Harvard Law School professor and architect of the
federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and Brown signed
the  agreement , known as The People’s Pledge, on Jan. 23. It
covers any “broadcast (including radio), cable, or satellite
advertising, or online advertising” in support of or against
either candidate.  Brown, on his website, says that he first proposed the idea
of discouraging outside money during the 2010 special election
against Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  to fill
the seat vacated when Senator Edward M. Kennedy died.  He revived the proposal in the current campaign “after
Crossroads began running an anti-Elizabeth Warren ad,” the
campaign’s website says.  Gohringer, however, said Brown made the proposal after the
League of Conservation Voters spent $2 million on ads last year
criticizing his environmental record.  Poll Decline  “We did issue advertising more than a year ago on Scott
Brown’s record and he saw his poll numbers come down
substantially,” Gohringer said. “That sort of facilitated the
pledge.”  Since Brown and Warren signed the pledge, it’s been broken
only once, in March. Brown donated $34,000 to charity after a
group called the Coalition of Americans for Political Equality,
a Washington-based group that supports Republicans, ran ads in
his favor.  The two candidates have spent a combined $22.4 million to
air more than 27,000 television ads since April, according to
data compiled by New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, an ad
tracker. No other groups have done  television advertising  in
their Senate campaign, according to the data.  The Campaign Legal Center’s Ryan said he’s surprised at how
effective the pledge has been.  “I was far more cynical when
the idea was being discussed and kicked around,” he said.  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the Center for
Responsive Politics, said outside groups such as Crossroads and
the League of Conservation Voters are run by seasoned political
strategists who will find a way to influence the important races
regardless of what the candidates want.  “These groups are going to do everything they can,” she
said. “It’s a total violation of the spirit and intention of
the pledge. But they didn’t sign anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgeraldk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  