-- Bruyneel Leaves RadioShack Cycling After Armstrong Report Out
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-13T04:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/bruyneel-exits-radioshack-cycling-after-armstrong-report-release.html
Johan Bruyneel  exited as general
manager of the RadioShack Nissan Trek cycling team two days
after a report detailed his alleged role in a doping conspiracy
around seven-time Tour de  France  winner  Lance Armstrong .  Bruyneel and RadioShack mutually agreed to the departure
yesterday because Bruyneel “can no longer direct the team in an
efficient and comfortable way,” the squad said in a  statement 
posted on its website.  The  Colorado Springs , Colorado-based U.S. Anti-Doping
Agency released a 202-page report and more than 1,000 pages of
related testimony on Oct. 10 that said Armstrong used banned
substances, administered them to other riders on the U.S. Postal
Service team, tried to procure false affidavits and prevent
witness from testifying. Bruyneel was the team manager for U.S.
Postal as Armstrong won the Tour de France, victories that have
since been stripped by USADA.  Bruyneel, two doctors and a trainer who were a part of the
U.S. Postal team were accused by USADA in June of joining
Armstrong in planning the use of banned drugs.  Bruyneel, who unlike Armstrong decided to take USADA’s case
against him to arbitration, said in a  statement  on his website
yesterday that he decided to step down to focus on his defense
and shield the team from unnecessary distractions. He said USADA
hurt his case with the release of the Armstrong report.  “I am surprised and extremely disappointed that USADA
released information in the public domain relating to their
pending case against me before I had been given any opportunity
to review the evidence and provide my defense against it,”
Bruyneel said. “I still hope to be able to defend myself in a
forum free from bias, although I now fear that USADA’s
calculated action may have irreversibly prejudiced my case.”  Proper Response  Richard Young, an attorney for Bryan Cave LLP who
represented USADA in the Armstrong case and crafted the World
Anti-Doping Code in 2003, said Bruyneel’s denial of involvement
in doping left the agency free to respond, based on the
provisions of the code.  “When someone comes out and denies their involvement in
doping, USADA is free to respond,” Young said in a telephone
interview. “Anybody that’s named there, the other respondents,
all denied that they did it. They opened the door.”  In opting not to fight USADA’s charges, Armstrong was
banned for life from competing in professional cycling or other
Olympic-sanctioned events.  The International Cycling Union, known by the French
acronym UCI, has 21 days after receiving the USADA report to
decide whether to appeal USADA’s sanctions. Christian Prudhomme,
the race director for the  Tour de France , said cycling’s most
prestigious event will have no winner from 1999 to 2005 if UCI
upholds USADA’s findings, calling the report “damning,”
according to the  Associated Press .  ‘Reset Button’  Young said he hoped UCI would use USADA’s report as an
opportunity to “hit the reset button on cycling,” though he
was unsure what the federation’s reaction will be.  “I can tell you what I would hope it would be, which is
‘Good job, we’re not going to appeal,’” Young said.  Enrico Carpani, a spokesman for UCI, said it was “too
early to say” how it would respond to the USADA’s report, AP
said. UCI said in a statement two days ago that it would review
USADA’s file and make a decision on an appeal as quickly as
possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  