-- Cable Operators Can Fight Theft by Encrypting Signals, FCC Rules
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-10-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/cable-operators-can-fight-theft-by-encrypting-signals-fcc-rules.html
Cable companies led by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
won U.S. permission to encrypt their basic service to fight
theft and reduce service calls.  The Federal Communications Commission voted 5-0 to allow
encryption, the agency said in an order released yesterday.
Cable companies already encrypt offerings on more expensive
channel packages that feature more programming.  The FCC had prohibited encryption on basic service so
customers wouldn’t need to rent a set-top box to view local
stations. The prohibition didn’t hold for satellite providers
 DirecTV (DTV)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  or for cable competitors such as
TV services offered by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Communications Inc.  The National Cable & Telecommunications Association in 2004
estimated that about 5 percent of homes near cable lines
accessed service without paying, resulting in almost $5 billion
in lost revenue. That was more than 8 percent of industry
revenues that year, according to a filing at the FCC by the
Washington-based trade group. The organization’s members include
the biggest U.S. cable operator, Comcast, No. 2 provider  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , a New York-area
provider.  “By permitting cable operators to join their competitors
in encrypting the basic service tier, the commission has adopted
a sensible, pro-consumer approach that will reduce overall in-
home service calls,” Michael Powell, president of the trade
group, said in an e-mailed statement. “Encryption of the basic
tier also enhances security of the network which reduces service
theft that harms honest customers.”  Encrypting basic service would let Comcast start and stop
service remotely, which customers prefer to scheduling an
appointment with a technician, Philadelphia-based Comcast said
in a filing at the FCC.  Cablevision found that, when it encrypted basic service
under a waiver from the FCC, it almost eliminated the need to
send crews in trucks to disconnect service, the Bethpage, New
York-based company told the agency in a filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  