-- Canadian Dollar in Narrowest Range in a Month on Growth Outlook
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-12T14:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/canadian-dollar-in-narrowest-range-in-a-month-on-growth-outlook.html
The Canadian dollar traded at the
narrowest range with its U.S. counterpart in a month as traders
speculated whether measures taken by central banks around the
world will spur economic growth.  The currency was little changed versus the  U.S. dollar 
after reports showed wholesale prices in the nation’s largest
trading partner rose more than forecast last month and
confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly rose in October. It
has traded in the range of 0.003 cents per U.S. dollar, the
tightest since Sept. 3.  “This is the very definition of a range trade for the
Canadian dollar,”  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD securities unit in Toronto, said in a
phone interview from Toronto.  Canada ’s currency traded at 97.92 cents per U.S. dollar at
10:16 a.m. in Toronto, compared with 97.86 cents yesterday. The
loonie, as the currency is often referred to because of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, is little changed this week. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.02124.  “We’ve had a strong bearish trend on dollar Canada since
the early June high,” James Chen, chief technical strategist at
FX Solutions LLC, said in a phone interview from  London . “All
the technical signs are pointing to the downside. The Canadian
dollar-greenback cross is forming a bear flag, a pattern that
slightly retraces a previous decline. The sell point is when
price penetrates the lower trend line of the flag area.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
October consumer sentiment index increased to 83.1 from 78.3 the
prior month. The gauge was projected to fall to 78, according to
the median forecast of 71 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The U.S. producer price index climbed 1.1 percent after a
1.7 percent gain in August, the Labor Department reported today
in  Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 76
economists called for a 0.8 percent increase. So-called core
producer inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy
prices, was unchanged, the first time it didn’t increase since
October 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  