-- Carlsberg Sees Asia as ‘Transformational,’ CEO Rasmussen Says
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-10-12T13:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/carlsberg-sees-asia-as-transformational-ceo-rasmussen-says.html
Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the owner of Russia’s
biggest brewer, said  Asia  will be “transformational” for the
company as it expands sales across the region.  Asia has grown to represent about 15 percent of Carlsberg’s
volume and is the main emphasis of the brewer’s emerging-markets
development, Chief Executive Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said
today in an interview in  London .  The region may eventually rival the volume of beer the
Copenhagen-based brewer sells in Russia, its largest market, the
CEO said, “although certainly not in my time at Carlsberg.”  The company sells beers in countries including Cambodia and
 China  and got 11 percent of revenue from Asia in 2011, according
to  Bloomberg data . Further expansion could be achieved through
joint ventures or acquisitions, Rasmussen said, after Carlsberg
announced Sept. 28 it will team up with Singha Corp., Thailand’s
biggest brewer, to distribute its brands in the country.  Brewers are scrambling to expand in Asia and other  emerging
markets  as volume growth stagnates or wanes in the U.S. and
Europe.  Heineken NV (HEIA)  got approval to take full control of Asia
Pacific Breweries Ltd. on Sept. 28 after offering to buy out its
South East Asian partner for S$5.6 billion ($4.6 billion).
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV bid for the rest of  Mexico ’s Grupo
Modelo SAB, the maker of Corona beer, in June for $20.2 billion.  Rasmussen said Carlsberg has “more than enough
opportunities” in the regions it currently operates in, though
that “doesn’t mean we’re not looking elsewhere.”  Russian Regulation  The Danish brewer gets the majority of sales from its north
and western European unit and eastern Europe division, primarily
 Russia , where it has a market share of about 37 percent. Growth
in Russia has been stymied as regulators stepped up restrictions
on alcohol sales, including enforcing an advertising ban. Taxes
on beer have been subject to regular increases, including a 200
percent excise tax rise at the start of 2010.  “We believe we will start to see growth in Russia again,”
Rasmussen said, declining to give a forecast on the country’s
beer market in 2013. The market may be “flattish” this year,
he said as the company announced second-quarter results  in
August . Carlsberg is placing an increasing emphasis on selling
higher-priced beers to compensate for weakening volume.  The maker of Tuborg and Kronenbourg 1664 reiterated its
full-year profit forecast in August as a better ruble exchange
rate than when it made a prediction in February helped offset
the effect of bad weather across north and east  Europe .  Operating profit will stay at about the same level as last
year, the company has said, while it anticipates that adjusted
net income will grow “slightly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  