-- CFTC’s Gensler Interested in Second-Term as Derivatives Overseer
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/cftc-s-gensler-interested-in-second-term-as-derivatives-overseer.html
Gary Gensler, chairman of the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said he’d be willing to
serve a second term as head of the agency bringing the first
federal regulation to the $648 trillion swaps market.  “Oh, absolutely,” Gensler said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Capitol Gains” program when asked
about the possibility of reappointment if President  Barack Obama 
is re-elected. “It’s a terrific, terrific agency. We’ve got a
lot of work in front of us.” The program airs Oct. 14.  The Washington-based agency is preparing to bring oversight
to swap dealers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  that begins to take effect today.
The rules, more that two years in the making at the CFTC, are
designed to reduce risk and increase transparency in a market
that helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Companies must begin tallying their derivatives trades to
determine if they will be deemed swaps dealers, making them
subject to the highest capital, collateral and conduct standards
under the law. The agency is preparing a series of guidelines
and exemptions to ease the transition.  “It’s four years since the crisis, but at times to lower
the burden, to lower the cost, phased compliance is the best way
and we’ve been committed to that,” Gensler said.  While his first term ended in April, Federal rules permit
Gensler, a Democrat, to remain as chairman of the commission
until the end of 2013. If Obama loses in November, his successor
could nominate a replacement as chairman earlier.  Gensler has been criticized on Wall Street for the scope of
the CFTC’s regulations and the potential they have to increase
costs on banks and other users of derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  