-- Chemring Requests Second Extension as Carlyle Bid Talks Continue
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-12T06:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/chemring-requests-second-extension-as-carlyle-bid-talks-continue.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG)  has been granted
another month to consider making a bid for  Chemring Plc (CHG) ,
implying talks with the maker of munitions and aircraft
protection-equipment are progressing.  A Nov. 9 so-called “put up or shut up” deadline has been
put in place by the U.K.’s takeover panel, Fareham, England-
based Chemring said today in a statement. It is the second time
the parties have requested an extension.  Chemring on Aug. 17 said it received a preliminary approach
from Carlyle, boosting its  share price  as high as 414.70 pence
to value the company 801 million pounds ($1.3 billion). A cut to
this year’s profit target on Aug. 28 and concern that a bid may
not materialize has caused Chemring to retreat to levels just
above their trading range before the private equity firm’s
interest surfaced.  Chemring has fallen 16.2 percent this year, valuing the
company at 648 million pounds ($1 billion). The stock closed
yesterday at 335.30 pence in  London , about 7 percent higher than
before Chemring announced the approach by Carlyle.  The negotiations are taking place against a backdrop of
declining defense spending in the U.S., Chemring’s largest
market, and  Europe . Carlyle’s existing investments include
aerospace software company Arinc and Vought Aircraft Industries.  Carlyle had until today to declare a bid or ask Chemring to
seek the extension.  “There is no certainty that, at the end of this period, an
offer for Chemring will be made, nor as to the terms of any such
offer,” the company said, adding that a further extension of
the deadline is possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  