-- China Carbon Debut Defies Emission Doubters
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-12T09:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/china-carbon-debut-defies-emission-doubters-energy-markets.html
China ’s first steps to build what is
destined to be the world’s second-biggest emissions market are
boosting the prospects for fledgling programs from  Australia  to
 California .  Four cement makers in China, the world’s biggest emitter,
bought 1.3 million pollution permits for 60  yuan  ($9.55) a
metric ton last month in Guangdong. The province plans the
largest of seven pilot programs for a proposed national market
within three years. Exchanges will trade permits to emit an
estimated 1 billion metric tons of  greenhouse gases  a year by
2015, close to half the volume in the European Union system.  By setting its own emission limits and allowing polluters
to buy and sell permits, China’s domestic market is set to dwarf
its own participation in the UN market, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance forecasts. The country’s commitment may also help break
a logjam in global-treaty negotiations and support trade in
Australia and the U.S., where opposition to carbon pricing is
unwavering, according to Climate Bridge, which has developed
projects in China since 2006.  “What China is doing with its pilot scheme and ultimately
with a national scheme sets a terrific example for the rest of
the world,” said Alex Wyatt, the Melbourne-based chief
executive officer of Climate Bridge and author of a report
released yesterday with the Sydney-based Climate Institute.
“Any suggestions by people in the West that China is not acting
on  climate change  aren’t true.”  Global Climate Summit  Negotiators from China, the U.S., the EU and about 200
other nations are scheduled to meet next month in Doha, Qatar,
for a global summit on climate. The discussions are expected to
culminate in 2015 with a treaty to reduce greenhouse gases
linked to climate change by imposing cuts on the richest nations
and requiring poorer ones to slow increases in emissions, said
Luiz Alberto Figueiredo Machado, Brazil’s undersecretary general
for environment in the foreign ministry.  UN envoys agreed last year in Durban, South Africa, to work
toward a treaty taking effect in 2020 that includes legally
binding targets for all nations, including China and the U.S.
Under the current pact negotiated in 1997 in Kyoto, Japan,
emission limits apply only to industrialized nations. The U.S.
has declined to sign the treaty, citing China’s refusal to
commit to binding reductions.  Until now, China’s main role in the global emissions arena
has been hosting the world’s largest stream of projects earning
credits under the United Nation’s Clean Development Mechanism.  From windfarms in  Inner Mongolia  to hydropower plants in
Yunnan, China is home to almost half of the 4,200 projects
worldwide that are registered in the CDM, according to Climate
Bridge. The projects have generated almost 600 million credits
known as offsets, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg.  Falling Prices  The offset market, in which richer nations pay for projects
in  developing countries  in exchange for tradable credits known
as Certified Emission Reductions, is struggling with record-low
prices. CERs for December delivery opened today at 1.77 euros
($2.29) on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, near the all-time
low of 1.43 euros on Sept. 18.  UN credits traded at their biggest-ever discount to EU
permits this week. The spread, which trades as a separate
contract on the ICE Futures Europe, widened to as much as 6.05
euros on Oct. 9, a 75 percent increase from a year ago.  The collapse in UN carbon prices hasn’t dissuaded China
from using the so-called cap-and-trade system to meet a target
of reducing emissions intensity by as much as 45 percent by 2020,
according to John Connor, CEO of the Climate Institute. After
initial skepticism, China’s government has seen the benefits of
the CDM, he said.  “This positive experience with carbon markets has
contributed to China choosing to establish its own domestic
carbon-trade scheme,” Connor said in a  report .  Government Policy  The carbon price of 60 yuan a ton last month in Guandong,
the manufacturing hub near  Hong Kong , reflects government policy
more than market forces, said Milo Sjardin, the Singapore-based
head of Asia-Pacific analysis at New Energy Finance. Depending
on whether China allows investors and financial intermediaries
to participate in the domestic market, prices may eventually be
driven by the supply and demand, he said.  Shanghai , China’s biggest city, and Guangdong plan to
require producers of steel, petrochemicals and electricity and
others with annual emissions of more than 20,000 tons to buy
tradable permits. The other regions in China’s pilot program are
Beijing, Tianjin, Chongqing, Shenzhen and Hubei.  China is starting a domestic carbon-trading system in the
five years through 2015 to achieve a 2020 target to control
greenhouse-gas emissions through a market-based mechanism, the
National Development and Reform Commission said in a statement
in January.  The regional markets are expected to cover 800 million to 1
billion tons of emissions by 2015, according to estimates from
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. That compares with 331 million
tons in Australia, 439 million tons in California and Quebec,
and 2.18 billion tons in Europe, Sjardin said.  Emissions Intensity  While China’s pollution per unit of economic growth is
falling, absolute emissions continue to rise, Connor said.  “China’s emerging schemes can dovetail with other global
schemes as a stepping stone toward a global climate change
agreement by 2015,” Connor said.  Australia, the biggest emitter per capita in the developed
world, has yet to settle its climate policy, even though it
started charging its biggest emitters $A23 a ton on July 1.
While Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  won support last year for a
fixed price on carbon for three years and a cap-and-trade system
starting in 2015, she is trailing in the polls behind  Tony Abbott , the opposition leader. Abbott has pledged to end what he
says is a “toxic tax” that will raise prices in Australia and
eliminate jobs as mines are forced to close or relocate.  Damaged Competitiveness  “I have just come back from China and the U.S., and they
are very concerned about their economic future, and the last
thing they want to do is damage their competitiveness, score an
economic own goal without doing any good for the environment by
hitting their people with a carbon tax,” Abbott said July 31.  Australia has the broadest carbon tax of any country in the
world, said  Greg Hunt , climate spokesman for Abbott’s Liberal
party. With 22 million people, Australia is charging emitters $9
billion a year, or about $400 per person, undermining the
country’s competitiveness, he said.  Australia, which committed to reduce carbon pollution by 5
percent from 2000 levels, agreed in August to scrap a minimum
price for carbon and link its market with the EU. Australian
companies can now buy EU permits to comply with half their
compliance requirements starting in 2015.  Carbon trading is still off to a slow start in Australia
because of the political debate, Martijn Wilder, a partner at
Baker & McKenzie LLP in Sydney, said in a Oct. 10 interview.  Wait and See  “Clients are going to watch what happens,” Wilder said.
“Three years is a long time away.”  Cap-and-trade also faces political opposition in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest emitter after China. Former President  George
W. Bush  refused to ratify the Kyoto Treaty, and President  Barack
Obama  wasn’t able to win congressional approval for his own
proposal.  One exception to U.S. climate skepticism is California. The
first carbon auction in the biggest American state is scheduled
next month in preparation for cap and trade next year.  The California’s Air Resources Board will sell at least
21.8 million allowances on Nov. 14. The state’s carbon futures
traded yesterday at $14.60, down 28 percent from this year’s
peak of $20.25 a metric ton in July.  ‘Sticking Point’  Governments in California and Australia said they are
working together to promote global carbon trading. Australia is
also in talks with China, according to Mark Dreyfus, the
country’s parliamentary secretary for climate change. Dreyfus
said he met in  New York  last month with China’s National
Development and Reform Commission Vice Chairman  Xie Zhenhua .  “We have been working closely with China over the last
year on a range of policy and technical issues to support the
development of credible, robust and effective carbon markets,”
Dreyfus said in Sept. 28 statement.  Disagreement on whether developing nations should be forced
to reduce emissions has been the “sticking point” in global
climate talks, according to Sjardin at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. While a new climate treaty by 2015 remains an
“ambitious goal,” negotiators at this year’s summit in Doha
may start on “a more hopeful note” than last year, he said.  China’s steps to limit emissions are also undermining
arguments against cap and trade in the U.S. and Australia,
according to Sjardin.  “China has long been perceived as a laggard on climate
action and used as scapegoat by other countries like Australia
to delay action,” Connor said. “But this argument is
increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to make given China’s
recent policies.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  