-- Yuan Loans Trail Estimates as Wen Struggles for Rebound
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/china-september-new-yuan-loans-trail-estimates-report-shows-1-.html
China ’s new lending was below
analysts’ estimates last month as the government struggles to
reverse a slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Banks extended 623.2 billion  yuan  ($99.5 billion) of local-
currency loans, the  People’s Bank of China  said on its website
yesterday. That compares with the median estimate of 700 billion
yuan in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  China’s central bank has cut interest rates and lenders’
reserve requirements to spur lending, with economic growth
sinking just as the Communist Party prepares for a once-a-decade
leadership transition that starts next month. While local
governments are rolling out plans for infrastructure spending,
banks are wary of accumulating bad loans and have failed to make
use of extra leeway for offering discounts to borrowers.  Premier Wen Jiabao is “risking handing over a sharply
slowing economy to the next administration, a blemish to his
otherwise great performance over the last ten years,” said Liu Li-Gang, an economist in Hong Kong at  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , who previously worked at the World Bank. Liu
said the central bank needs to cut lenders’ reserve
requirements.  Officials at the nation’s top four lenders have indicated
that they are limiting discounts for the best corporate clients
to 10 percent on the benchmark lending rate, not the 30 percent
allowed by the central bank from July. The officials asked not
to be identified as they’re not authorized to speak publicly.  Inflation, Trade  The lending report is ahead of trade figures due today,
 inflation data  to be announced Oct. 15, and third-quarter gross
domestic product scheduled for release on Oct. 18. Yi Gang, a
deputy governor of the central bank, said in  Tokyo  yesterday
that economic growth may be about 7.8 percent this year, which
would be the slowest pace in 13 years.  “The government has approved many infrastructure projects,
but banks are reluctant to lend to local governments,” Xie Dongming, a Singapore-based economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp, said before yesterday’s release.  For the first nine months, new loans were 6.72 trillion
yuan, 18 percent more that the same period in 2011. The
government has held off from cranking up lending to the record
levels of the financial crisis, when 8.7 trillion yuan was lent
in the same period in 2009, according to a previous central bank
report.  “Lending at this rate is not going to drive much of an
economic rebound,” said Mark Williams, an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London . “China’s banks extended fewer new
loans in the third quarter than they did in the second.”  Slumping Stocks  The  Shanghai  Composite Index has slumped about 14 percent
from this year’s March 2 high on concern the government isn’t
loosening monetary policy or introducing stimulus policies fast
enough, as the central bank focuses instead on money-market
operations.  The yuan yesterday touched a 19-year high of 6.2640 against
the dollar. Yi, the deputy governor, said the central bank had
curtailed its intervention in the currency market for more than
a year, reflected by a leveling off in the nation’s foreign-
exchange reserves.  China’s September trade figures may show some improvement
in exports. Overseas shipments probably rose 5.5 percent from a
year earlier, according to the median estimate of 35 economists,
after a 2.7 percent gain in August.  Price Risks  Inflation may have been 1.9 percent in September, close to
a two-year low, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. That masks the potential for a rebound, partly
driven by food, that could complicate Wen’s efforts to spur
growth, according to estimates from Credit Agricole CIB and
Citigroup Inc.  Credit Agricole says the inflation rate may approach 4
percent by year-end and Citigroup estimates a pace of about 3.5
percent. The government also faces the risk of bubbles
reinflating in the housing market.  Housing prices in Beijing, Shanghai and other large cities
are “already very high,” the central bank’s Yi said yesterday,
adding that the government needs to avoid a bubble and also help
low-income earners get homes.  China’s economy expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the least in three years. Growth may have
slowed to 7.4 percent in the third, according to the median
estimate of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from Sept.
11 to 18.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, this week
cut its forecast for global consumption of the metal by 1
percentage point on slowing Chinese demand.  Investment Projects  The government has accelerated approvals for investment
projects, lowered interest rates and boosted tax support for
exporters. At the same time, authorities have refrained from
further easing monetary policy since rate cuts in June and July
and a May reduction in banks’ reserve requirements.  The PBOC last year introduced an aggregate financing
measure, designed to capture other funding sources in the
economy apart from loans, such as bond and stock issues, trust
loans and banks’ off balance-sheet loans.  The indicator was 1.65 trillion yuan last month, compared
with 427.9 billion yuan in the same month last year, according
to central bank data. For the first nine months, aggregate
financing was 11.73 trillion yuan compared with 9.8 trillion
yuan in the same period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  