-- CIA Spooks Save Hostages in ‘Argo’; L.A. Psychos: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/cia-spooks-save-hostages-in-argo-l-a-psychos-movies.html
Gnawingly suspenseful, “ Argo ”
tells the story of a 1980 operation to get six American
diplomats out of Tehran during the hostage crisis with  Iran .  They had escaped the embassy when its walls were breached
and were holed up with the Canadian ambassador.  Tony Mendez, the CIA agent charged with their rescue, came
up with an unlikely cover for them to use at the airport. They
would be a Canadian film crew scouting locations for a “ Star
Wars ” knockoff called “Argo.”  Ben Affleck  directs (he also plays Mendez) with a relish
for churning up the audience that Hitchcock might admire. With
his screenwriter, Chris Terrio, he also threw in a delicious
extra element of mordant farce.  To make the cover convincing, Mendez flies to  Los Angeles 
to get an actual film project going. His co-conspirators are two
oversize personalities, played by  John Goodman  and Alan Arkin,
who deliver their cracks about the industry with vaudeville
timing. They deserve their own movie.  They’re the only actors Affleck allows to ham it up. His
Mendez is understated, the diplomats nondescript. As a result,
the stakes feel truer, if not higher, than in most thrillers.  “Argo” treats the Iranian revolution as a kind of
dangerous beast that may strike and kill without reason, but
otherwise holds politics at a distance.  The movie avoids histrionics (mostly), but it’s so sweat-
inducing that, as the climax approaches and the script invents
more and more ways to crank up the tension, you may find
yourself pulling back. Being tortured is only fun up to a point.  “Argo,” from  Warner Bros ., is playing across the U.S.
Rating: **** (Seligman)  ‘Seven Psychopaths’  Gandhi got it wrong, as one of the loons in Martin
McDonagh’s hyper-violent, brashly entertaining “ Seven
Psychopaths ” insists.  An eye for an eye won’t leave everyone blind. Someone will
be left standing -- and seeing.  The survivor of McDonagh’s comic, bloody mayhem isn’t hard
to predict, but watching him get there is a giddier thrill than
might be expected 18 years after “ Pulp Fiction .”  Tarantino Party  With his thugs spilling pop culture references alongside
copious amounts of blood, writer/director McDonagh (“In
Bruges,” Broadway’s “The Lieutenant of Inishmore”) might seem
a holdover at the Quentin Tarantino party.  But it’s hard to begrudge anyone who can corral a cast as
vividly loopy as this one, in a story that twists, turns and
collides with itself.  Colin Farrell  plays Marty Faranan, an alcoholic
screenwriter who can’t get past the title page -- “Seven
Psychopaths” -- of his new thriller script.  His best pal Billy Bickle (Sam Rockwell) is eager to help
research by collecting lurid, violent stories from Los Angeles
nut jobs.  Those stories, including tales of a throat-slashing Quaker
and a Vietcong suicide bomber, meld with Marty’s real life.  And his real life is a mess. He gets caught up in a violent
imbroglio when the dognapping Bickle swipes the beloved shih tzu
of a vicious mobster (Woody Harrelson).  Patty Hearst  “The dog is my Patty Hearst,” says Bickle, enjoying the
danger far too much.  Seasoning this combustible brew are Bickle’s mutt-stealing
mentor Hans ( Christopher Walken ), a rabbit-toting weirdo ( Tom
Waits ) and their wrong-place, wrong-time women (Abbie Cornish,
Olga Kurylenko).  “Your women characters are awful,” Walken’s Hans tells
screenwriter Marty, as “Psychopaths” swirls in on itself,
sending up the artistic highs and guilty-pleasure lows of
Hollywood violence.  Marty’s buddy isn’t named Bickle for nothing.  “Seven Psychopaths,” from CBS Films, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: **** (Evans)  Scary ‘Sinister’  Whatever else it is, the opening scene of the truly
disturbing “ Sinister ” is fair warning.  Scratchy, silent footage of a family being hanged slowly
from a tree is as unsettling as it is frightening.  Directed by Scott Derrickson (“ The Exorcism of Emily
Rose ”) and starring Ethan Hawke, “Sinister” might not be the
last word on the mostly spent “found footage” horror genre,
but it’s among the scariest.  Hawke plays a one-hit-wonder true-crime writer desperate to
revive his moribund career. His new book will investigate the
gruesome hanging that left four people dead and one child
missing.  With his ever-rational wife (an appealing Juliet Rylance)
and two kids (Michael Hall D’Addario, Clare Foley), Hawke’s
Ellison Oswalt moves into the murder house and makes an attic
discovery of a box stuffed with canisters of Super 8 snuff
films.  Derrickson stretches the haunted-house pacing to near
sadistic levels of suspense, and first-time screenwriter C.
Robert Cargill glances more than once at both “ The Exorcist ”
and “ The Shining ” to set a realistic tone before the demons
arrive.  The supernatural payoff isn’t nearly as powerful in
“Sinister” as in those two classics -- but backyard oaks won’t
ever seem the same.  “Sinister,” from Summit Entertainment and Alliance Films,
is playing across the U.S. Rating: *** (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and Zinta
Lundborg on  New York   Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com  or Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 