-- Clapton’s Richter Fetches $34 Million, 30 Times Purchase
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-10-13T12:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/clapton-s-richter-fetches-34-million-30-times-purchase-price.html
A Gerhard Richter painting owned by
 Eric Clapton  sold last night for a record 21.3 million pounds 
($34.2 million) -- more than 30 times what he paid for it in 
2001.  The 1994 oil-on-canvas “Abstraktes Bild (809-4)” was sold
by Sotheby’s in  London  for its “Frieze Week” auction of
contemporary artworks with an estimate of 9 million pounds to 12
million pounds. The buyer was Natasha Mendelsohn of Sotheby’s,
acting for a client on the telephone. She was underbid by her
colleague  Tobias Meyer , Sotheby’s worldwide head of contemporary
art, also taking instructions for a client.  “People are still ready to pay top prices for great
paintings,” Christophe Van de Weghe, a  New York  dealer, said in
an interview. “While the market is selective, the Clapton
provenance made a difference. It could have added as much as 20
percent to the price.”  The predominantly red, dark blue and yellow abstract was
one of three Richters bought by the U.K.-born guitarist for $3.4
million at  Sotheby’s (BID)  New York in November 2001. At the time,
this was an auction record for a lot containing abstracts by the
German artist, with each worth about a third of the figure. Last 
night's sale was both a record for Richter at auction and for a 
living artist at auction.  Richter, 80, who works in Cologne in both figurative and
abstract idioms, has become the world’s most bankable living
artist, dealers said. His highly decorative abstractions, often
painted with a squeegee, have become particularly sought-after
by wealthy international collectors and set seven of the 10
highest prices paid for the artist at auction.  Rising Richter  When Clapton bought his painting, the average auction price
of a Richter work was $461,910, according to the database
 Artnet .  Values have been boosted by the critical and popular
success of recent retrospectives at Tate Modern, London, and the
Pompidou Center, Paris, dealers said.  The previous auction record for the artist was the $21.8
million for the 1993 “Abstraktes Bild (798-3)” at Christie’s
International, New York, in May.  (Clapton is active in the auction market and is also
selling a watch. His 1987 platinum  Patek Philippe  perpetual
calendar chronograph with moon phases is up for sale at
Christie’s in Geneva on Nov. 12, valued at 4 million Swiss
francs, or $4.27 million.)  Two lots after the Richter, the 1961 Yves Klein blue sponge
painting, “RE 9-I,” valued at 2 million pounds to 3 million
pounds, sold for 3.7 million pounds. The buyer was Greek
collector Dmitri Mavromatis, dealers said.  Sale Figures  Last night’s Sotheby’s contemporary-art sale raised 44.1
million pounds with fees with 89 percent of 53 lots successful.
The total beat a high estimate of 39.4 million pounds at hammer
prices.  The previous evening, Christie’s raised 23 million pounds
with fees from 61 lots of contemporary art, 74 percent of which
found buyers. Two large-scale photographs by  Andreas Gursky  and
two sculptures by  Paul McCarthy , usually Frieze Week favorites,
failed to sell against valuations of about $1 million each.  “There were obvious brand names at Christie’s, not great
works,”  Philip Hoffman , chief executive of the London-based
Fine Art Fund, said in an interview.  The star lot of the evening was the 1992 Martin Kippenberger self-portrait “Untitled (from the series Hand-
Painted Pictures),” which sold to an unidentified bidder in the
room for a record 3.2 million pounds.  Tate’s Kippenberger  Entered by a private European collector and never sold at
auction before, the painting had been included at Kippenberger
retrospectives at  Tate Modern , London, and the  Museum of Modern
Art , New York, in 2006 and 2009 respectively. It had been
estimated at 2.5 million pounds to 3.5 million pounds.  Meanwhile, steady, if not runaway business was being
reported by galleries exhibiting at the 10th-anniversary Frieze
and other events. Dealers were expecting further sales from
collectors flying to London for the weekend before next week’s
FIAC fair in Paris.  Unlike the boom years of 2006 and 2007, collectors haven’t
had to run round Frieze to snap up the latest works by the
hottest artists; nor were dealers having to restock their booths
after a sell-out VIP private view.  A 2012 blue-fiberglass circular sculpture by  Anish Kapoor 
was still available for sale, priced 800,000 pounds, on the
booth of the  Lisson Gallery  the day after the Oct. 10 preview.  Gagosian’s Hirst  Gagosian , which doesn’t discuss sales or prices, had re-
hung predominantly the same selection of works by artists such
as  Damien Hirst , Rudolf Stingel and Jenny Saville that it had
shown the previous day. The gallery sold $45 million of big-
ticket works on the first day of Art Basel 2011, according to
dealers.  New works priced at less than $100,000 continue to be the
mainstay of Frieze. Typical of the event’s recipe for success
were the four 2012 constructions by the Brazilian sculptor
Fernanda Gomes sold by the London-based dealer  Alison Jacques  on
the first two days. Prices ranged from $18,000 to $35,000.  Bigger numbers predominated at the inaugural Frieze Masters
fair further north in Regent’s Park. The Zurich-based  David
Koetser Gallery  is one of several Old Master picture dealers
hoping for “crossover” sales from collectors of contemporary
art.  “Four or five of my clients have bought their Richters and
Kapoors and are struggling to find the right quality from
emerging artists,” said  Annabel Thomas , a London-based art
adviser who is collaborating with Koetser for Frieze Masters.
“They’re now looking at  Old Masters  and medieval art.”  Packing Case  Koetser sold an austere still life of fruit by the 17th-
century Dutch artist Adriaen Coorte, priced at $3.7 million. To
give it a 21st-century twist, the dealer presented the canvas
“framed” in its packing case.  The buyer is non-European and an “avid collector of modern
and contemporary art,” according to Annemarie van der Hoeven, a
gallery spokeswoman.  London-based dealer Sam Fogg also reported “crossover”
trade at Frieze Masters. Fogg sold a Flemish early-16th-century
painting of the Virgin and Child to a contemporary-art collector
for 200,000 pounds and a medieval bronze of the crucified Christ
to an artist for 30,000 pounds.  There were also significant sales at the Pavilion of Art
and Design in Berkeley Square. By the third day of this
commercially-situated boutique fair, the London-based dealer
 Luxembourg & Dayan  had sold seven out of the eight new Chinese
Pop-style “Panda” paintings by Rob Pruitt it was offering
priced at $120,000 each.  Paris-based  Galerie Downtown , which specializes in
modernist furniture by designers such as Jean Prouve and
 Charlotte  Perriand, had sold 80 percent of its booth on the
second day. Jewelry dealer  Laurence Graff  was spotted among its
buyers at the Oct. 9 preview.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history and  Richard
Vines  on food.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 