-- CME, Wall Street Win Delays From CFTC Swap Dealer Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-10-13T02:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/cme-wall-street-win-delays-from-cftc-swap-dealer-rules.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , energy traders and
Wall Street banks won delays and exemptions from the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission as regulations intended to
improve oversight of the swaps market took effect.  Among a flurry of short-term extensions, the CFTC announced
that foreign entities including the overseas branches of U.S.-
based banks would not have to begin tallying swaps right away
and perhaps not until the end of the year.  The agency also said that swaps traded by companies
transitioning to futures at CME, owner of the world’s largest
futures exchange, will not count toward new swap dealer
registration requirements until Dec. 31.  The relief is intended “to enable any such transition to
proceed in an orderly manner,”  Gary Barnett , director of the
CFTC’s division of swap dealer and intermediary oversight, said
in a letter released in Washington yesterday, the day the rules
took effect.  The CFTC is among several agencies writing and implementing
rules mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which overhauled U.S.
financial regulation in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.
The act required U.S. regulators to oversee the over-the-counter
swaps market for the first time.  ‘Opaque’ Market  “The days of the opaque swaps market are ending,” CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a speech Oct. 10 at George
Washington University, where he compared the new regulations to
securities rules enacted in the 1930s. “The swaps market reform
going into effect this week holds out similar potential. Bright
lights of transparency will shine. Dealers will have to come
under comprehensive regulation.”  Swaps trading has been a major source of revenue for large
U.S. banks, and some have conducted roughly half of such trades
overseas, often through branches or subsidiaries.  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , for example, derives as much of its quarterly revenue
from global operations.  The CFTC has yet to complete guidance for the reach of
Dodd-Frank clearing, trading and capital regulations and the
temporary relief is intended to ease transition. The agency
released a no-action letter governing the international scope of
the regulations, providing temporary relief until as late as the
end of the year for certain foreign entities.  Substituted Compliance  The CFTC’s interpretive guidance allowed for so-called
substituted compliance for branches, subsidiaries and other
overseas affiliates of U.S. banks when foreign jurisdictions
have comparable rules. The CFTC’s June proposal failed to
sufficiently clarify the reach of the rules and could lead to
conflicts, according to letters submitted to the agency by
overseas regulators. The letters were sent by the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority, European Commission, European
Securities and Markets Authority, Financial Services Agency in
 Japan , the  Bank of Japan (8301) , Bank of  France  and Swiss Financial
Market Supervisory Authority.  The delay relating to CME Group’s ClearPort system that
converts swaps into equivalent futures positions as the trade is
entered into the Chicago-based company’s clearinghouse. The
company earns more per contract on ClearPort than any other
asset class such as interest-rate, equity index or energy
futures.  CME and Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange Inc. are
trying to shift energy swaps to futures trades to help their
clients avoid the threshold. While Intercontinental is ready,
CME hasn’t completed the change, according to people familiar
with the matter. In the three months ended in August, CME Group
earned $2.65 per ClearPort trade, compared with 48 cents per
trade in  interest rates  or 67 cents in equity indexes.  ‘Huge Deal’  “It’s a huge deal. It’s one of their biggest products,”
said  Andrew Lebow , a senior vice president in energy derivatives
at Jefferies Bache LLC in  New York .  There remains a lot of uncertainty within the  energy
industry  about what the CFTC would do, Lebow said.  “There’s a fair amount of confusion,” he said. In general
“I don’t know how ready the industry is” to comply with all
the other Dodd-Frank rules Lebow said.  Scott O’Malia , a Republican CFTC commissioner, said that
the agency would release 18 no-action letters and other
guidelines granting temporary relief from regulations. “While
this is a step in the right direction, the commission should
never have gotten to the point where it was forced to issue such
last-minute piecemeal relief,” O’Malia said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  Confusion, Confidence  The CFTC’s rulemaking process has brought confusion,
concern and a lack of confidence in Gensler, Senator  Pat Roberts , a Kansas Republican and top member of his party on the
Senate Agriculture Committee overseeing the agency.  “It’s my view that CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler is using his
newfound power to unilaterally impose his will on financial
markets,” Roberts said in a statement yesterday. “Most
distressing is that while Mr. Gensler has tried to create his
regulatory agenda, he and the CFTC have miserably failed in
their oversight of existing regulations and market
participants.”  Roberts called for congressional hearings to oversee the
CFTC.  Starting yesterday, companies had to begin tallying their
derivatives trades to determine if they will be deemed swaps
dealers subject to Dodd-Frank’s highest capital, collateral and
trading standards, which may erode profits. Companies with $8
billion or more in dealing business must register.  $30 Billion Profit  The designation will apply to New York-based JPMorgan and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , as well as other financial firms
dominating a business that generates more than $30 billion in
annual profit for the world’s largest banks, according to an
estimate from consulting firm  Oliver Wyman , a unit of  Marsh &
McLennan Cos. (MMC)   The rules, more than two years in the making, will improve
oversight of a market that for three decades has largely escaped
federal regulation, Gensler said Oct. 10. The agency issued a
series of exemptions and guidelines in recent days to ease the
transition and phase in regulations.  The CFTC also provided temporary relief for companies that
trade primarily foreign-exchange swaps and forwards, a market
that the Treasury Department has proposed to exempt from most of
Dodd-Frank’s clearing and trading regulations. Under the
temporary relief, companies with foreign-exchange derivatives
business putting them in excess of the $8 billion swap-dealer
threshold wouldn’t be required to register with CFTC until after
the end of the year.  Treasury plans to complete the decision by the end of the
year, Alastair M. Fitzpayne, assistant  Treasury secretary  for
legislative affairs, said in an Oct. 4 letter to Representative
 Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat.  Alleviate Uncertainty  “Time limited no-action relief is warranted in order to
alleviate the uncertainty on market participants who engage
solely or primarily in foreign exchange swap and foreign
exchange forward swap dealing activity,” the CFTC’s Barnett
said in a separate  letter  yesterday.  Some securitization vehicles will be exempt from
regulations and others may need to be evaluated in the future,
the agency said Oct. 11 in a letter to the American
Securitization Forum and Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association. The associations represent Charlotte, North
Carolina-based  Bank of America  Corp. and New York-based  Bank of
New York Mellon  Corp. among hundreds of investors, issuers and
trustees who sought an exclusion from regulations.  “The commission has taken a thoughtful initial approach to
this issue and we are very pleased it has formally recognized
that most of the securitization market should not be considered
commodity pools,”  Tom Deutsch , executive director of the
securitization forum, said in a statement yesterday.  The CFTC denied a full exemption to some types of
securitization entities, including those used in collateralized
debt and loan obligations. The agency said the industry’s
request “is overly broad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  