-- Confusion Sown in Pennsylvania by Lingering Voter-ID Ads
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/confusion-sown-in-pennsylvania-by-lingering-voter-id-ads.html
Looking down at an intersection in
Northeast Philadelphia, a blown-up image of a woman holding a
 Pennsylvania  driver’s license is flanked by the Spanish slogan:
Si Quieres Votar Muéstrala (If you want to vote, show it).  The state-sponsored billboard’s message may leave some
voters confused about what’s needed to cast a ballot this year,
after a court ruling last week blocked a requirement to produce
an approved photo identification at polling places. Television
advertisements highlighting the law that passed this year also
were broadcast as recently as Oct. 6.  Lingering ads about the law in the Republican-led state may
suppress votes on Nov. 6, opponents say, while just 3 percentage
points separated the presidential contenders in a recent
Pennsylvania poll. Advocates have fought the measure, questioned
election-fraud billboards in  Ohio  and challenged voting
restrictions in battleground states from  Florida  to  Wisconsin ,
sowing confusion even where laws haven’t changed ahead of a
national election that is too close to call.  “You want to be sure all voters are getting an accurate
message, a consistent message,” said Ellen Kaplan, policy
director at the Philadelphia-based  Committee of Seventy , a
nonprofit government watchdog group. “The worst problem in this
case might be if voters still believe they need a photo ID to
vote, and if they don’t have one, they may say, I may as well
not go to the polling place.”  12 States  Backed by Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, Keystone
State lawmakers passed the voter-identification bill in March.
It was one of at least 12 measures requiring approved
identification to cast a ballot put in place or updated since
2011. Supporters say they’re needed to prevent voter fraud.
Critics say the rules will disenfranchise minority, poor and
young voters, who tend to support Democrats.  Advocacy groups such as the  American Civil Liberties Union 
and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People have challenged the laws, preventing some from taking
effect. Courts have stayed or rejected such measures in three
other states,  Texas , Wisconsin and South Carolina.  Legal challenges to the laws across the U.S. are causing
confusion in states such as Florida, where no changes have been
made, said Cedric McMinn, executive director of the Miami-Dade
County Democratic Party. McMinn said he’s explained to some
voters that they can get a ballot by showing any of several
different types of identification, including credit or debit
cards with photos.  “We’re going to have some problems,” McMinn said.  Voter Purge  Florida, which has sought to remove ineligible voters from
registration rolls, represents 29 electoral votes. Combined with
Ohio, with 18 and Pennsylvania, with 20, the three states
provide a quarter of the 270 electoral college votes needed to
win the presidency.  Ohio voters backed Obama in 2008 by 262,224 votes. Former
President  George W. Bush  won there by about 118,600 votes in his
2004 re-election bid, topping Massachusetts Senator John F.
Kerry 50.8 percent to 48.7 percent, state records show.  Studies from Pennsylvania and independent groups there
suggested that hundreds of thousands of voters would lose access
to the polls if they didn’t take steps to obtain an acceptable
identification or correct the records. The state said records
showed as many as 759,000 eligible voters might be excluded.  Voters in the Keystone State, where Republicans swept to
power in the 2010 elections, supported President  Barack Obama  in
his first bid for the White House in 2008. Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney ’s campaign got a boost this week when a Siena
College Research Institute poll showed him trailing Obama 43
percent to 40 percent, with 12 percent undecided.  Provision Blocked  On Oct. 2, a Pennsylvania judge said that while election
officials can request identification from voters in the Nov. 6
polling, those who can’t produce it can cast ballots that will
count. The law remains in effect, with the identification
provision held in abeyance. An Oct. 10 ruling by a special
three-judge panel in  Washington  blocked a similar statute from
taking effect for next month’s voting in  South Carolina .  The photo-identification portion of the Pennsylvania law
may be enforced in future elections unless Commonwealth Court
Judge Robert Simpson decides to strike it down in a case brought
by the ACLU.  Pennsylvania is revamping its voter-education campaign,
with new ads set to run this week, said Matthew Keeler, a
spokesman for the Department of State. He disagreed with those
who said the lingering images would produce any confusion.  Higher Turnout  “With all the organizations and everyone coming out to
help individuals get forms of ID, I believe it’s really brought
voting to the forefront of the discussion and it will help
improve turnout,” he said.  The state started running TV spots during the last weekend
of August in a handful of areas, with distribution extended
statewide on Sept. 10, Keeler said. Stations were asked to pull
the ads after the court ruling, and removing them from scheduled
airings takes time, he said.  “There’s no way for us to go into a television station and
pull the ads ourselves,” Keeler said.  The Philadelphia billboard ad has been up since Sept. 3,
and won’t be revised for “a couple of weeks,” according to Jim
Cullinan, a New York-based spokesman for Clear Channel Outdoor
Holdings, which owns the sign.  Some state residents have said they saw the old TV ads as
recently as Oct. 6, the Seventy group’s Kaplan said.  No Mailers  Pennsylvania won’t send postcards informing voters they
aren’t required to present identification at polling places,
Keeler said. Mailers were sent in September notifying 8.3
million registered voters saying that would be necessary.  Letters were sent to about 750,000 state residents in July,
notifying them that their names on voter registration records
didn’t match those on file with the Pennsylvania Transportation
Department, Keeler said. The notices advised recipients to
either correct the records or obtain substitute identification
before trying to vote, he said.  Some ads may stay in place if they convey the theme that
approved identification will be requested at polling places and
that it would be needed in elections after Nov. 6, Keeler said.  The state has set aside $5 million to educate the public on
the voter-identification law, which includes broadcast time from
now until Election Day, Keeler said. So far, $1.23 million has
been spent on TV, $210,000 on radio and $119,296 on ads on buses
and billboards, he said.  Time Remaining  More than half of the the state’s broadcast allotment, 60
percent, remains to be used, along with at least 90 percent of
its radio time, Keeler said.  Skeptics such as John Jordan, director of civic engagement
at the Pennsylvania State NAACP, remain doubtful that state
officials will set voters straight before election day. Jordan
said he doesn’t believe that taxpayer money will be spent to
tell voters that they won’t need identification at the polls
next month.  “We’re talking about the same people we’ve been fighting
since March,” Jordan said of state officials. “We still feel
that this was targeted toward certain voting groups, the largest
voting groups that voted in 2008: women, seniors and students.”  Ivelesse Coroussett, a 30-year-old clerk at Rebeka Envia
Centro De Llamadas, a store across the street from the Northeast
Philadelphia billboard, said she thought she’d be required to
show her driver’s license when she votes next month.  Robert Smallwood, 67, a neighborhood resident who was
walking by the billboard, said he knew he wouldn’t have to show
identification at the polls. He said the sign is an example of
an effort to confuse voters. “A lot of people don’t really know
what’s going on.”  The case is  Applewhite v. Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, 330-md-2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  