-- Company Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Rise; Gulfport Sells Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-12T21:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-decrease-after-jpmorgan-earnings.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk increased, reversing a decline from the lowest level in
four days.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.7 basis point to a mid-price of 98 basis points at 4:15 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps measure rose as  JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Wells
Fargo & Co. reported shrinking net interest margins, a gauge of
the profitability of lending. The index had earlier reached as
low as 95.2 basis points after the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary October consumer sentiment index increased
to 83.1 from 78.3 the previous month, the highest since
September 2007.  “Part of it has to do with some uncertainty with respect
to earnings: things will pop in one direction and then fade,”
Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at Susquehanna
International Group LLP, said in a telephone interview. “Next
week we should get a fair amount of data so that we can see more
discernible trends.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Wells Fargo  The cost to protect against losses on the debt of Wells
Fargo rose 1 basis point to 84.5 basis points at 4:07 p.m.,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Contracts tied to  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  widened, a day after
 Japan ’s  Softbank Corp. (9984)  confirmed it’s in talks to take a stake
of as much as 75 percent of the third-largest U.S. wireless
carrier. Sprint’s swaps rose 25.9 basis points to 388.3 basis
points at 3:30 p.m. in New York, CMA data show.  Gulfport Energy Corp. (GPOR)  sold $250 million of eight-year,
dollar-denominated bonds to repay borrowings and prefund
drilling expenditures, according to a person familiar with the
offering, who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The 7.75 percent notes were priced to yield 672 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt fell 2
basis points, led by communications and energy companies, whose
spreads narrowed 2 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The relative yield on speculative-grade debt was
unchanged, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  