-- Could Biden Be Obama’s Improbable Henry Higgins?
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-10-12T15:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/could-biden-be-obama-s-improbable-henry-higgins-.html
Who woulda thunk that  Joe Biden , of
all people, would drag a onetime rock-star president over the
finish line? Only a few months ago, plenty of Democrats wanted
the vice president dumped from the ticket in favor of Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton . Now he is saving  Barack Obama ’s bacon.  Historically, vice-presidential debates have had little
impact on the outcome of presidential elections but there are
exceptions and 2012 may prove to be one of them.  In 2004, the Democratic challenger,  John Kerry , was up
eight points in several polls after besting President George W. Bush in their first debate. But then Vice President  Dick Cheney 
drove home Bush’s national-security message in his debate with
 John Edwards  and won on points, not likeability, which was never
Cheney’s strong suit. Bush’s polling stabilized and he went on
to win a close election.  Unless Obama lays eggs in the two next debates, I suspect
the same dynamic will be at work this year. Biden may have
irritated some voters last night -- the instant polls were split
-- and  Paul Ryan ’s smooth and intelligent performance makes him
a likely Republican nominee for president in the future. But the
big takeaway from this contest will be that Biden stopped, or at
least slowed,  Mitt Romney ’s momentum, re-energized panicky
Democrats and scored heavily with two key constituencies: senior
citizens and women.  Obama Flub  The contrast between Biden’s performance and that of his
boss in Denver a week earlier couldn’t have been starker. Where
Obama never missed an opportunity to miss an opportunity (as
former Israeli Foreign minister Abba Eban liked to say about the
Arabs), Biden jumped on every one of Ryan’s arguments.  When Obama’s debate-prep team analyzes which of Biden’s
counterpunches landed best with focus groups, the president will
cherry-pick the answers and try to deliver a calmer, more
presidential and more selective version of his running mate’s
performance.  This isn’t to claim that Biden “won”; unlike the
presidential forum in Denver, the verdict on the Kentucky
contest broke down along party lines, though the conservative
pundit Dick Morris wrote in a mid-debate Twitter post: “can’t
believe how weak Ryan is.”  Morris knows that Romney must hold senior citizens, the
only age group that went for  John McCain  in 2008. Unfortunately
for the Republicans, Biden clarified for seniors (most of whom
turn out to vote) that Democrats are the protectors of  Social
Security  and Medicare while Republicans consistently favor
privatizing and voucherizing those hugely popular programs.  When Biden spoke about Medicare at the debate, he turned
straight to the camera and reminded seniors that Obama’s health-
care law had brought them $600 a year in reduced prescription-
drug costs (by closing the so-called donut hole, a term that may
be unclear to most voters, but not to the elderly) and by
providing coverage for preventive-care visits.  The Republicans will call that pandering, but it no doubt
sounded good in  Florida . There, Ryan’s history of championing
 George W. Bush ’s privatization plan in 2005 is scary for seniors
who, then as now, don’t want their  retirement savings  exposed to
the fluctuations of the stock market. Biden’s “c’mon, guys”
common-sense appeal probably scored with voters wondering whom
to trust on this issue.  The same dynamic was at play on abortion, which wasn’t
mentioned in the presidential matchup in Denver and is of
critical importance to undecided women voters who had been
moving toward Romney in the last week.  Abortion Fight  Republicans may say this is a tired evergreen for Democrats
and that Presidents  Ronald Reagan ,  George H.W. Bush  and George
W. Bush won with anti-abortion views. But when the health of
Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg , a 79-year-old survivor of
pancreatic cancer, is all that stands between women and the loss
of their reproductive freedom, that issue has returned to the
forefront of the campaign, partly thanks to Biden.  It is likely that Romney, whose views on abortion have been
all over the place, will have to say clearly in his second
debate with Obama next week whether his presidency would mean a
reversal of Roe v. Wade.  Biden’s other achievement was to expose some of the
hypocrisy at the heart of the Republican argument. He nailed
Ryan for seeking stimulus money for his congressional district
while railing against the program, and for assailing a lack of
security at U.S. embassies after he voted to reduce the relevant
funding by $300 million.  Romney will continue to gallop toward the center, where
presidential elections are won. It will be up to Obama to use
some of Sheriff Joe’s ammo to cut him off at the pass.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  improving U.S. food safety 
and the  vice-presidential debate ; Stephen L. Carter on  which
facts last the longest ; William Pesek on  economist Raghuram
Rajan’s return to India ;  Jonathan Weil  on  funny numbers
companies use  to burnish their earnings; Richard Vedder on  what
colleges aren’t telling  prospective students.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  