-- Cyberattacks Could Become as Destructive as 9/11: Panetta
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-10-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/cyberattacks-could-become-as-destructive-as-9-11-panetta.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
said the Pentagon and American intelligence agencies are seeing
an increase in cyber threats that could become as devastating as
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks if they aren’t stopped.  “A cyber attack perpetrated by nation states or violent
extremist groups could be as destructive as the terrorist attack
of 9/11,” Panetta said last night. “Such a destructive cyber
terrorist attack could paralyze the nation.”  The Defense Department is drafting new rules that will
allow the military to defend U.S. “national interests” in
addition to its own  computer networks , Panetta said in prepared
remarks delivered in  New York  on board the USS Intrepid, an
 aircraft carrier  that’s now a museum.  Panetta offered the highest-level confirmation to date of
recent cyber attacks on U.S. and international computer networks
and faulted Congress for failing to pass comprehensive
cybersecurity legislation this year. In the absence of such a
law, President  Barack Obama ’s administration may issue an
executive order, Panetta said.  Attackers “are targeting the computer control systems that
operate chemical, electricity and water plants, and those that
guide transportation throughout the country,” he told the
annual awards dinner of  Business Executives for National
Security , a non-profit group that applies business practices to
national security.  “We know of specific instances where intruders have
successfully gained access to these control systems,” Panetta
said. “We also know they are seeking to create advanced tools
to attack these systems and cause panic, destruction, and even
the loss of life.”  Contaminate Water  “An aggressor nation or extremist group could gain control
of critical switches and derail passenger trains, or trains
loaded with lethal chemicals,” Panetta said. “They could
contaminate the water supply in major cities, or shut down the
 power grid  across large parts of the country.”  In recent weeks, he said, some large U.S. financial
institutions were hit by attacks that delayed or disrupted
services on customer websites. While this tactic, called a
Distributed Denial of Service attack, isn’t new, the scale and
speed of the bank assaults, which continued this week, were
unprecedented, he said.  Even more alarming, Panetta said, was an attack two months
ago in which a sophisticated virus called Shamoon infected
computers at the Saudi Arabian Oil Co., known as  Saudi Aramco ,
and then Ras Gas of Qatar. More than 30,000 Aramco computers
were rendered useless, and had to be replaced, he said.  ‘Garbage Data’  “Shamoon included a routine called a ‘wiper,’ coded to
self-execute,” he said. “This routine replaced crucial system
files with an image of a burning U.S. flag. It also put
additional ‘garbage’ data that overwrote all the real data on
the machine.”  Aramco said the attack had no significant impact on its
administrative operations and that it had reinforced its network
security systems, according to a statement posted on the
company’s  website  last month.  Panetta discussed specific attacks whose details were
declassified to allow public disclosure because cyber threats
have become as serious as conventional and nuclear threats, a
senior defense official said, speaking on the condition of
anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  The Defense Department is working on new rules that will
clarify the Pentagon’s role in defending the country from cyber
attacks without violating privacy laws and citizens’ rights, the
official said.  ‘Take Action’  “We won’t succeed in preventing a cyber attack through
improved defense alone,” Panetta said. “If we detect an
imminent threat of attack that will cause significant physical
destruction or kill American citizens, we need to have the
option to take action to defend the nation.”  In response, he said, the Pentagon is “finalizing the most
comprehensive change to our rules of engagement in cyberspace in
seven years.” The rules will clarify that the Pentagon “has a
responsibility not only to defend the DoD’s networks, but also
is prepared to defend the nation and our national interests.”  The rules, which are still being written, will specify what
types of attacks are serious enough to be considered hostile
action against the U.S. under international law, a Pentagon
official said. The official, who briefed reporters prior to the
speech, declined to say where the line will be drawn between
routine cyber intrusions and attacks.  The Pentagon spends about $3 billion a year to retain
“cutting edge capabilities” and is increasing “many key
investments” despite budget constraints, Panetta said.  ‘Significant Investments’  The Pentagon also has made “significant investments in
forensics” to identify attackers, Panetta said. “Potential
aggressors should be aware that the U.S. has the capacity to
locate them and hold them accountable for actions that harm
America or its interests.”  The Defense Department has identified thousands of low-
level attacks and attributed them to criminal groups, nations,
and individuals without taking any action, the defense official
told reporters.  Panetta said Russia and  China  have advanced cyber
capabilities, and  Iran  is undertaking a “concerted effort to
use cyberspace to its advantage.”  He said top U.S. officials, including Obama, Vice President
 Joe Biden , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , and himself
routinely discuss cybersecurity with their foreign counterparts.  Private Sector  Nevertheless, he said,“ securing cyberspace is not the
responsibility of the  United States  military, or even the sole
responsibility of the United States government. The private
sector, government, military, and our allies all share the same
global infrastructure -- and we all share the responsibility to
protect it.”  The Pentagon has made progress in sharing information with
private companies, Panetta said. Since May, the Defense
Department has expanded a program to share unclassified
cybersecurity information with defense contractors to 64 from 34
companies, he said.  The Department of  Homeland Security  is working on a project
to share “highly sensitive” cybersecurity information with
commercial  Internet service providers , Panetta said.  “Information sharing alone, however, is not sufficient,”
he said. “Working with the business community, we need to
develop baseline standards for our most critical private-sector
infrastructure -- including  power plants , water treatment
facilities, and gas pipelines.”  Lax Security  “Although awareness is growing, the reality is that too
few companies have invested in even basic cybersecurity,”
Panetta said.  To provide all the necessary protection, he said, Congress
must pass comprehensive cybersecurity legislation, which it
failed to do this year. In the meantime, he said, the
administration will work to enhance security under existing
authorities by working with the private sector and possibly by
issuing an executive order.  “This is a pre-9/11 moment,” Panetta said. “The
attackers are plotting. Our systems will never be impenetrable,
just like our physical defenses are not perfect. But more can be
done to improve them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  