-- Daimler Investor Aabar Shifts to Indirect Voting Holding
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-10-12T08:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/daimler-investor-aabar-shifts-to-indirect-voting-holding.html
Aabar Investments PJSC sold its
remaining voting stake in  Daimler AG (DAI)  two weeks after the world’s
third-biggest luxury-car manufacturer predicted the European
auto-market contraction will hurt profit at its main brand.  The Abu Dhabi sovereign-wealth fund disposed of its 3.1
percent holding on Oct. 5, Florian Martens, a spokesman at
Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler, said by phone today. Aabar
retains 12.75 percent indirect  voting rights  through financial
instruments, he said.  Daimler stock is trading about 85 percent higher than when
Aabar acquired a 9.04 percent stake in the carmaker in March
2009, when the fund bought new shares at a 5 percent discount.
Daimler Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said last month
that earnings at the Mercedes-Benz Cars division will fall this
year, rather than matching figures from 2011, because of
“deteriorating” European market conditions.  “Aabar bought the shares relatively cheaply, so in terms
of  portfolio management  they’ve made almost 100 percent
profit,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based Bankhaus
Metzler analyst who recommends selling Daimler stock. “It says
something about the opinion of one of the biggest and most
important market players.”  Stock Gains  Daimler rose as much as 1.5 percent to 38.72 euros and was
trading 0.6 percent higher at 10:55 a.m. in Frankfurt. The stock
has gained 13 percent this year, the second-worst performance on
the  Bloomberg Europe Autos Index. (BEAUTOS)  Aabar originally bought its
stake at 20.27 euros a share in a transaction valued at 1.95
billion euros ($2.52 billion).  The German manufacturer “respects” the shift in
shareholdings, and nothing else has changed in its ties with
Aabar, Martens said. Aabar didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comments during the weekly Friday day off in the
Persian Gulf.  Aabar lent about half its holdings a year ago to an
unidentified recipient, saying at the time that it remained
“fully committed” to the carmaker.  The fund’s decision to retain indirect voting rights
indicates a lingering “economic interest,”  David Arnold , an
auto-industry specialist with Credit Suisse in London, said
today. “I don’t think an actual sale has happened here. It’s a
transfer of collateral.” The longer-term question is “where
does Daimler see the benefit from its cost-cutting program and
the uplift from Mercedes’s model momentum over the next two to
three years?”  BMW’s Lead  Global car-sales growth at the Mercedes-Benz brand is
lagging behind gains at luxury-market leader Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG and second-ranked  Audi AG. (NSU)  Deliveries posted by
Mercedes rose 2 percent in September from a year earlier, while
BMW’s and Audi’s sales increased by about 14 percent each.
Zetsche set a goal in September 2011 for Mercedes to retake its
role as the best-selling luxury-car brand by 2020.  Mercedes began selling a new version of its A-Class
hatchback, the brand’s smallest car, in September. The model
competes with BMW’s 1-Series and Audi’s A3. The A-Class is among
five models that Daimler plans to introduce in coming years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  