-- Davis Rea Buys U.S., Trims RBC on Economy Risk
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-10-12T14:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/davis-rea-buys-u-s-while-paring-rbc-on-economy-risk.html
The threat of a Canadian recession
is prompting John O’Connell, who co-founded a private wealth
management firm at  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , to trim shares in the
bank and sell  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  at his
new firm.  O’Connell, 50, says  Canada  is facing a consumer and
housing-led slump and is reducing equities at Toronto-based
Davis Rea Ltd. while acquiring U.S. dollars to deploy in
consumer stocks such as  Home Depot Inc. (HD)   “Our choice right now is cash and American versus
Canada,” said O’Connell, chief executive officer at Davis Rea,
which runs about C$575 million ($588 million). O’Connell bought
the investment firm two years ago after leaving RBC’s The
Harbour Group, which he helped build into assets under
management of $2.8 billion when he left in 2010.  While Canada may have survived the 2008 financial crisis in
relatively good condition, growth since has been fueled by
 consumer debt  and a housing bubble that looks set to burst, he
said in an interview in Bloomberg’s Toronto office on Oct. 5.  “Look at the gross debt consumer levels and the amount of
spending in Canada, they’re all flashing major warning signs,”
O’Connell said. “Much of our employment growth has been
construction fueled by credit, and government employment. You
have to wonder how much longer this can go on. The unemployment
level is vulnerable to both.”  Great Depression  Davis Rea runs four pooled funds or trusts and accounts for
individuals with a minimum C$1 million to invest. The Davis Rea
Equity Pooled Fund holds about 35 percent cash, compared with 24
percent at the end of the first quarter this year.  At the end of the second quarter, it had  advanced  4.3
percent in the previous 12 months, beating the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index which  retreated  13 percent in the
same period. Its balanced, fixed-income and partners funds each
beat their benchmarks in the past 12 months.  Canada’s household debt burden rose to a record high of
154.3 percent in the first quarter,  Statistics Canada  said in
June. The  Bank of Canada  has warned household debts are the
economy’s biggest domestic risk and likely to continue rising.  John Johnston, chief strategist for Davis Rea and a former
chief economist at Harbour Group, said the global economy is in
the midst of the “third great depression of the industrial
age” and headed for a recession.  “ Europe  is in a canoe and the mist is coming up from the
falls,” he said. “Canada thinks it’s different, Canada thinks
it’s exceptional, but it’s not.”  Home Prices  Johnston said he expects Canadian house prices to drop an
average 20 percent, while Toronto and Vancouver markets could
fall more. Average  house prices  surged 85 percent to C$465,412
in the past decade in Toronto.  Economists do not see a contraction in Canadian gross
domestic product this quarter or the next four, though growth
probably dipped to a low of 1.7 percent in the third quarter,
according to a survey by Bloomberg.  With the proceeds of his Canadian sales, O’Connell is
building up U.S. dollars, which he will deploy into the U.S.
market when conditions turn more favorable.  “Right now is the time to focus on retention of capital,
not return on capital for our clients,” O’Connell said.  Davis Rea is also looking at shares of U.S. consumer
discretionary and health-care equipment suppliers, although
O’Connell hasn’t settled on specific targets yet. Prospects look
brighter for the U.S. housing market, making home improvement
retailers intriguing investments as well, he said.  Crossover Debt  Mark Wisniewski, a fixed-income manager hired by Davis Rea
earlier this October, said he’s looking forward to buying
shorter-term duration debt products and finding ideas that have
“fallen through the cracks” such as so-called crossover
corporate debt. That’s debt rated between investment grade and
high yield bonds, Wisniewski said.  “High-yield guys say it doesn’t yield enough and
investment-grade guys say they can’t buy it, but I like
crossovers,” he said.  One example is the debt of  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) ,
the Canadian financial services company run by  Prem Watsa ,
Wisniewski said. The company’s most recent issue of C$200
million in 10-year senior unsecured debt, with a coupon of 5.84
percent, was rated BBB- by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
yesterday.  O’Connell’s Canadian sells also include  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE) ,
while he’s reducing  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  Within his
Canadian equity holdings O’Connell owns  Morguard North American
Residential REIT (MRG-U)  as it is buying residential properties in both
Canada and the U.S. The stock, which began trading in April, has
risen 17 percent this year.  He also owns  Tourmaline Oil Corp. (TOU) , calling it the best oil
and gas company in Canada with strong management, large
resources and a solid balance sheet. The stock is up 13 percent
this year.  “It’s exceptionally attractive to a foreign or domestic
acquirer,” O’Connell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  