-- Dish Ordered to Turn Over Data in AMC Trial on Contract
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-10-12T19:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/dish-ordered-to-turn-over-data-in-amc-trial-on-contract.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  was ordered by a
New York judge to turn over documents to  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX)  as a
trial continues over AMC’s claim that Dish wrongfully terminated
their high-definition television programming contract.  State Supreme Court Justice Richard Lowe issued his ruling
today in  Manhattan  while the jury was out of the courtroom. A
state appeals court denied Dish’s request to withhold the
documents.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , AMC’s former owner, sued Dish in
2008 over a now-defunct HD satellite TV service called Voom,
claiming Dish breached their 15-year contract to offer the
service to its 14 million TV subscribers. AMC, based in New
York, seeks $2.4 billion in damages.  AMC rested its case today and Dish began presenting its
evidence to the jurors.  In 2011 Lowe granted AMC’s motion for sanctions against
Dish over its destruction of evidence. He said Dish should have
anticipated a suit and begun saving e-mails when it notified
Voom it might terminate the contract. Dish said the
e-mails were automatically deleted. Before jurors deliberate,
Lowe will tell them that Dish destroyed the evidence.  Documents Presented  After the trial began, Dish was accused again by AMC of
withholding evidence. Dish argued that the communications at
issue were between an attorney and his client and should be
protected from disclosure. Lowe ordered that the documents be
presented to him privately. Dish appealed.  Although Dish gave the documents to the judge, AMC claims
there are still missing files related to an audit Dish undertook
of Voom’s finances.  “We want access to those hard drives and see whether there
were manual deletions,”  Orin Snyder , a lawyer for AMC, told the
judge today.  “Mr. Snyder is incorrect when he says we have not provided
the files,” Charles Kerr, a lawyer for Dish, said to the judge.  Dish said it terminated the Voom contract because
Cablevision didn’t spend the required $100 million a year on
programming. Cablevision claimed that Voom spent $103 million in
2006. Dish said that figure included corporate overhead expenses
of at least $12 million and that the contract stipulated that
the money be spent on programming. The legal issue is a dispute
over the meaning of the contractual phrase “on the service” in
relation to spending.  Voom Concerns  Dish’s first witness, Michael Schwimmer, the former head of
programming for the company and its lead negotiator on the Voom
contract, said the requirement that $100 million be spent on the
service was added to the pact because of concerns about Voom.  There had been reports that Charles Dolan, the chairman of
Cablevision, disagreed with  James Dolan , the chief executive
officer of the company, about Voom, Schwimmer said.  “Jim Dolan, the son of Chuck Dolan, was not in favor of
continuing to fund the Voom service and wanted to shut it
down,” Schwimmer testified. “His father was trying to keep it
alive.”  “We wanted to know whether the money would be there to
support the channels,” Schwimmer said.  Asked by Dish’s lawyer what he meant by “service,”
Schwimmer responded, “I’m talking about the programming feed --
what the customer can see.”  Lowe today also ordered that Dish provide data on
subscriber numbers. Snyder claimed that Dish disclosed HD
customer totals that according to analysts were too low. He said
those numbers could reduce potential damages.  “If what Mr. Snyder asserts is anywhere near accurate,
it’s the heart of the plaintiff’s damages case,” the judge
said.  The case is Voom v. Echostar, 600292-2008, State Supreme
Court of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 