-- Duke Seeks to Boost North Carolina Rates by $387 Million
-- B y   T i n a   D a v i s   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-10-12T20:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/duke-seeks-to-boost-north-carolina-rates-by-387-million-1-.html
Duke Energy Corp.’s (DUK)  Progress Energy
Carolinas filed a request for its first general rate increase
since 1987, asking regulators to boost revenues by about $387
million a year.  If the request is approved by the North Carolina Utilities
Commission, average residential bills would increase a net 14.2
percent and commercial and industrial customers would pay about
9 percent more, Charlotte, North Carolina-based Duke Energy said
in a statement today.  Most of the additional funds are needed to upgrade the
power system, the company said. The utility expects to file a
rate request in  South Carolina  next year and its affiliate Duke
Energy Carolinas will file general rate cases in both states in
the coming months, it said.  The request comes three months after Duke’s acquisition of
Raleigh, North Carolina-based Progress Energy Inc. closed on
July 2, creating the largest U.S. utility owner by market value.
The company announced the next morning that it replaced Progress
Chief Executive Officer  Bill Johnson  with Duke CEO  Jim Rogers .
The change triggered investigations by North Carolina regulators
and the state’s attorney general.  The rate request wasn’t due to the merger and Duke isn’t
seeking to recover any associated employee severance costs, the
company said in the statement.  The request is a separate matter from the merger
investigation, Len Green, a senior staff attorney with the North
Carolina Utilities Commission, said in a telephone interview
today.  Duke fell 0.5 percent to $64.16 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tina Davis in New York at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  