-- Telefonica to Sell Call-Center Unit to Bain in EU1B Deal
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-10-12T08:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/telefonica-to-sell-call-center-unit-to-bain-in-eu1b-deal.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , the Spanish phone
company accelerating asset sales to help cut more than 58
billion euros ($75 billion) of  net debt , agreed to sell its
Atento call-center division to Bain Capital Partners LLC.  The transaction gives Atento an enterprise value, which
includes debt, of 1.04 billion euros, Madrid-based Telefonica
said in a statement today. Atento had 175 million euros of net
debt at the end of June.  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is selling assets,
including shares in Telefonica’s German and Latin American
businesses, as he seeks to avert a potential debt-rating cut.
Telefonica had tried to sell Atento as early as in 2007, and a
year ago shelved plans for an initial public offering of the
unit, which employs more than 152,000 employees, almost half of
the company’s total.  “The deal has been done at a better price than the market
expected,” Nuno Matias, an analyst at Espirito Santo in Lisbon,
said by phone. “The company really needs to carry out further
transactions such as the IPO in  Germany  in order to
deleverage.”  Bain Capital, the private-equity firm co-founded by U.S.
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , has backed companies
including business-software provider MYOB Ltd. and cinema chain
AMC Entertainment Inc.  Deferred Payment  The Atento deal value includes 110 million euros of a
deferred payment as well as vendor financing provided by
Telefonica to help Bain pay for the asset valued at 110 million
euros, the Spanish company said.  Telefonica  shares  gained 0.3 percent to 10.24 euros at 9:49
a.m. in Madrid trading, valuing the company at 46.6 billion
euros.  Atento had 1.8 billion euros in revenue last year. That’s
less than 3 percent of the 62.8 billion-euro sales reported by
the parent company. Atento’s 2011  operating income  before
depreciation and amortization dropped 15 percent to 161 million
euros.  The transaction, subject to regulatory approval, is
expected to be completed by the end of the year, Telefonica
said. The deal also includes a nine-year agreement for Atento to
continue providing services to Telefonica.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  