-- Emerging-Stock Funds Post Inflows, Led by India, Citigroup Says
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-10-12T04:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/emerging-stock-funds-post-inflows-led-by-india-citigroup-says.html
Emerging-market (MXEF)  equities lured funds
as  India  and China led  Asia  to a fifth week of inflows, while
investors sold developed-nation stocks, Citigroup Inc. said.  Emerging funds attracted $828 million in the week ended
Oct. 10, compared with a $2.1 billion outflow from developed
funds,  Markus Rosgen  and Yue-Hin Pong, Citigroup’s analysts,
wrote in a report today, citing data compiled by EPFR Global.
India-focused funds had inflows of $157 million, while China
funds took $84 million, the analysts said.  “It’s possible that investors are trying to play a little
catch up until the year-end” after emerging stocks have
underperformed, Pong said in an e-mail response today.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has climbed 9 percent this
year, trailing an 11 percent increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed countries. The emerging-markets gauge trades at 11.5
times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 13.1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
MSCI emerging index was little changed at 996.14 today.  “While the asset class has underperformed year-to-date, we
expect better performance in the quarters ahead, supported by
stabilising Chinese gross domestic product and easier monetary
policy,” Citigroup analysts, led by global strategist Hasan Tevfik, wrote in a separate report dated Oct. 10. “We note that
valuations in emerging market continue to look attractive,
however profits have weakened in part due to lower commodity
prices.”  Within  emerging markets , Citigroup is most “positive” on
Asia, where the central bank asset growth has just started to
accelerate, the analysts said.  Easier Policies  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board in
Seoul yesterday lowered the benchmark  seven-day repurchase rate 
to 2.75 percent from 3 percent. India’s central bank last month
reduced the amount of deposits lenders must set aside as
reserves, supporting the government’s push to revive growth.  India has had foreign institutional investor inflows of
$17.5 billion this year, the largest in Asia, followed by  South
Korea  with $13.6 billion in purchases by foreign investors,
according to Citigroup.  India’s Sensex index has surged 21 percent this year as
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  cut fuel subsidies, opened
retailing and airlines to foreigners and reduced a tax on local
companies’ overseas borrowings in a wave of policy making since
last month after two years of gridlock.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has risen 0.6 percent this
week, heading for a second week of gains, on speculation the
government will accelerate measures to boost the market and
economy. Central Huijin Investment Ltd., a unit of its sovereign
wealth fund, started acquiring shares in the nation’s four
largest banks.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net 
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  