-- Most Emerging Stocks Fall Commodities Drop on Growth View
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-10-12T22:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/emerging-stocks-rise-paring-weekly-loss-led-by-banks.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell,
with the benchmark  index (VXEEM)  posting its biggest weekly decline
since August, as commodities tumbled on renewed concern that
global growth is slowing.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 1.2 percent this week
after closing little changed at 996.70 in  New York. (INFY)  Three
hundred thirty-nine stocks fell on the gauge today while 337
rose. OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural-gas producer,
fell to a two-month low in Moscow.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  sank in Mumbai
and New York after cutting its sales forecast.  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  rose to a five-month high as the
nation’s lenders were said to be resisting government pressure
to cut borrowing costs.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
fell 1 percent and  stocks in developed markets  declined as
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said global growth is not fast enough to curb unemployment,
raising concerns about the recovery.  “Part of it is the general negative tone in Europe,”
Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist at the private-banking
unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland, said in a phone interview  “And
as we begin to look down the pike to the range of news, a lot of
it is not very encouraging.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares,declined 0.3
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 0.1 percent.  South Africa Rating  Standard & Poor’s  cut South Africa’s sovereign rating by
one level, citing concern that a wave of strikes in the  mining
industry  is causing political and social unrest and putting
pressure on  government spending . The rand dropped 0.8 percent
against the dollar, the most among 25 emerging market
currencies.  Fitch Ratings Ltd. said in statement distributed by
Business Wire that Brazil’s slowdown is slower and deeper than
anticipated, and is boosting the effect of the global crisis in
countries like Argentina and Uruguay. Brazilian markets were
closed today for a holiday.  Infosys, India’s second-largest software services exporter,
tumbled 5.4 percent in Mumbai, the most in three months, after
cutting its revenue growth forecast. The BSE India Sensitive
Index fell 0.7 percent. Infosys’s  American depositary receipts 
tumbled 7.6 percent to $44.54, the biggest one-day decline since
July 12.  Gazprom Drops  Russia’s Micex Index dropped 1.2 percent. Gazprom slumped
1.3 percent. OAO Raspadskaya, a producer of coal for
steelmaking, declined 2.4 percent. OAO Inter RAO fell 3.9
percent, the most in three months. Kumba Iron Ore slipped 0.5
percent as  South Africa ’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
retreated 0.2 percent.  Copper, tin, nickel and zinc fell. Crude declined after the
 International Energy Agency  reduced its forecast for global
demand, saying slower economic growth may limit fuel
consumption.  The WIG 20 Index in Poland declined for the first time in
three days, slipping 0.8 percent. PKO Bank Polski SA, the
country’s largest bank, sank 2.2 percent after Prime Minister
Donald Tusk unveiled plans to transfer shares in state-owned
companies to an investment vehicle that may sell government
holdings.  The benchmark index for emerging stocks earlier gained as
much as 0.4 percent, as a sentiment index showed confidence
among U.S. consumers unexpectedly rose this month to the highest
level since before the recession began five years ago.  U.S. Consumer Sentiment  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
October U.S. consumer sentiment index increased to 83.1, the
highest level since September 2007, from 78.3 the prior month,
data today shows. The gauge was projected to fall to 78,
according to the median forecast of 71 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Consumer stocks were among the biggest gainers as a group
in the  MSCI Emerging Markets index (MXEF)  as China Agri-Industries
Holdings Ltd. surged 7.9 percent in Hong Kong after UBS AG
upgraded the biofuel producer.  Emerging-market equities posted a fifth week of inflows,
while investors sold developed-nation stocks, Citigroup Inc.
said. Emerging funds attracted $828 million in the week ended
Oct. 10, compared with a $2.1 billion outflow from developed
funds, according to Citigroup.  China Construction Bank rallied 1.8 percent, while ICBC and
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  both advanced more than 1.2
percent.  China’s biggest banks are resisting government pressure to
lower borrowing costs amid an economic slowdown as they seek to
maintain the profitability of their lending operations, bank
officials said, asking not to be identified as they’re not
authorized to speak publicly.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 291, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  