-- EU Reaches Preliminary Deal to Tighten Iran Sanctions
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-12T15:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/eu-said-to-reach-preliminary-deal-to-tighten-iran-sanctions-1-.html
The European Union reached a
preliminary agreement to tighten sanctions on  Iran  to increase
pressure on the Gulf nation’s nuclear program, according to two
EU diplomats with knowledge of the matter.  Officials from the EU’s 27 nations agreed in Brussels today
to add several entities to the sanctions list to hinder the
Iranian government’s ability to raise funds for its atomic
program, which the U.S. and its allies say may be aimed at
producing weapons, according to the officials, who declined to
be identified because the talks were private.  The EU, which banned Iranian oil imports starting in July,
also agreed to impose further restrictions on Iranian trade and
the finance, energy and transportation industries, the diplomats
said. The proposed sanctions must now be approved by the bloc’s
foreign ministers, who meet Oct. 15 in Luxembourg.  The new measures are intended to close loopholes in
existing sanctions, the diplomats said. The decision came after
international talks yielded little progress in recent months.
Iran denies that it’s developing nuclear weapons and maintains
that its program serves civilian needs.  Iran increased the amount of 20 percent-enriched uranium
produced at its Fordo facility to 189.4 kilograms (417.6 pounds)
from 145 kilograms in May, the  International Atomic Energy
Agency  said on Aug. 30. Its stockpile of low-enriched uranium at
Natanz, purified to less than 5 percent, grew to 6,876 kilograms
from 6,232 kilograms. Highly-enriched uranium can be used to
produce electricity or manufacture an atomic bomb.  Oil Exports  Iran’s budget deficit may widen the most since at least
2007 as the U.S. and  Europe  are starving Iran of foreign
currency by banning sales of oil, its main export, and blocking
other transactions in dollars and euros, according to
International Monetary Fund forecasts published today.  Previously the second-biggest crude producer in OPEC after
 Saudi Arabia , Iran exported 860,000 barrels a day last month,
the  International Energy Agency  said in a report today.
Production in the country slumped to 2.63 million a day from
2.85 million in August, according the report.  Remain Low  “Our assumption is that exports will remain quite low for
the next few years,”  Antoine Halff , the head of the IEA’s oil
industry and markets division, said today on a conference call.  Israel has threatened to attack to stop the Gulf nation’s
nuclear program if the sanctions don’t succeed in curbing it.
Iranian leaders say they won’t bow down, even as the country’s
crude output plunges to the lowest in more than two decades.  The pressure is going to increase if the Iranians “are not
coming back with substantive willingness to engage in the
negotiations,” Italian Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi said
yesterday.  “They should provide guarantees that the enrichment is
stopped or at least contained at a level which is compatible
with the civilian uses,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  