-- EU Takes Nobel as Call to Action to Stabilize Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-10-12T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/eu-takes-nobel-as-call-to-action-to-stabilize-crisis-hit-economy.html
European Union leaders took the
award of the Nobel Peace Prize as a call to action to prevent
the euro-area financial crisis from halting the trek toward a
united continent.  The  Norwegian Nobel Committee  bestowed the prize in the
same week as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,  Europe ’s most
powerful politician, encountered rioters and anti-Nazi taunts on
a trip to debt-stricken, recession-wracked  Greece .  Praise for the EU’s past was coupled with a warning that
economic ills and social instability pose a risk to the historic
achievement of entrenching peace and democracy on the continent
that brought forth two world wars.  “Europeans won’t be consoled by the Nobel Peace Prize in
these difficult times,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the EU’s longest-serving government leader, told RTL
radio yesterday. “What they expect, at every moment in European
affairs, is that we make the right decisions.”  Born out of the embers of Europe’s 20th-century wars, the
bloc has grown from six countries in 1957 to 27, embracing 500
million people with an economy of $15 trillion. It was formed as
insurance against another European conflict, a rationale that
has receded as the World War II generation dies off.  The Nobel accolade came as the fallout from the debt crisis
threatens the EU’s signal achievement, the euro, and the rise of
powers such as China, India and  Brazil  challenges the European
model of rules-based cooperation with nation-states handing
sovereign rights to a central authority.  EU’s Past  With the pick, the judges in  Norway  -- a country that twice
rejected EU membership -- once again courted controversy. Three
years after U.S. President  Barack Obama  garnered the honor for
what he hadn’t done yet, the EU was recognized for what it did
long ago: anchor human rights and prosperity on the long-
fragmented continent.  “We wish to remind Europeans of what has been built and
what may be lost if we let this fall apart,” Thorbjoern Jagland, head of the committee, said in an interview in Oslo
after announcing the 8 million-krona ($1.2 million) prize
yesterday.  The award citation accentuated the past, relating how the
reconciliation of  Germany  and France gave birth to the European
project and served as a democratic beacon that, with the embrace
of former Soviet satellites in 2004, put an end to the East-West
conflict.  ‘Quite Remarkable’  The award was “quite remarkable,” U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said at the State Department in  Washington ,
where she was meeting Italian Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi di Sant’Agata. “It happened because of the very hard work and
dedication of leaders and citizens across Europe.”  The judges singled out Greece, Spain and Portugal -- three
former dictatorships now on the front lines of the debt crisis -
- as beneficiaries of the political and economic freedoms that
are hardwired into the EU. The Nobel committee alluded to their
plight in a statement pointing to “grave economic difficulties
and considerable social unrest” in the EU today.  French President  Francois Hollande , who came to office in
May opposing German-dominated budget-cutting remedies for
Europe’s crisis-stricken southern rim, responded to the award
with an appeal to European goodwill.  The prize “confers an even greater responsibility on
Europe: that of preserving its unity, of the capacity to promote
growth and jobs, and of solidarity,” Hollande said. How that
will translate at the next anti-crisis summit, on Oct. 18-19, is
unclear: France and Germany are at odds over issues such as the
distribution of aid funds and the design of a banking-
supervision system.  Kohl’s Legacy  Germany’s Merkel reacted by reinforcing her determination
to preserve the euro, in language echoing her pro-EU political
godfather,  Helmut Kohl . As chancellor from 1982 to 1998, Kohl
embedded the united Germany in the wider Europe, and regarded
European economic unification as a choice of peace over war.  “The euro is more than a currency and we should not forget
this during these weeks and months as we work to strengthen the
euro,” Merkel said in Berlin, dismissing the profit-and-loss
accounting that marks the German public debate over aiding
weaker countries. She called the award “both an incentive and
obligation, including for me personally.”  Hours after the prize was announced, a set of talking
points for strengthening the euro was released by EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy , holder of a job created by a 2009 EU treaty,
the latest in the ever-closer constitutional arrangements that
date back to the 1950s.  Fiscal Plans  Van Rompuy  floated ideas like a budget for the  euro zone 
with its own borrowing power and the joint sales of short-term
bills, testing whether fiscally top-rated countries such as
Germany, the Netherlands and  Finland  would carry additional
burdens for struggling regions.  In Finland’s case, the answer wasn’t long in coming. Prime
Minister  Jyrki Katainen , speaking to reporters after meeting Van
Rompuy in Helsinki, said Finland is “very critical toward the
euro-bond idea. It doesn’t make any sense to take the market
pressure away from the government bond market.”  The peace prize, along with literature, physics and
medicine honors, was created by Swedish industrialist  Alfred Nobel  and first awarded in 1901. The EU became the  21st
organization  to win, beating out 188 people and 42 other
organizations nominated this year. The selection process will
remain secret until the archives are opened in 2062.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  