-- Euro Joint Bills, Budget Urged as Path Out of Debt Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r ,   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-10-12T14:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/euro-joint-bill-sales-budget-urged-as-path-out-of-debt-crisis.html
European leaders were urged to
consider the pooling of national bill sales and setting up a
 euro-zone  budget with its own borrowing powers as steps toward
overcoming the debt crisis.  Bill sales “on a limited and conditional basis” could
create a “genuine euro-area safe and liquid asset” that breaks
the vicious circle of bank and sovereign debt, European Union
President Herman  Van Rompuy  said in a  position paper  released
today in Brussels.  An EU summit on Oct. 18-19 will test the appetite for joint
short-term bills in top-rated countries such as Germany and
 Finland , which have ruled out a switch to a full-scale common
borrowing system using euro bonds. EU countries plan to complete
the roadmap toward a more integrated monetary union at a
December meeting.  “I’m not making fully fledged proposals,” Van Rompuy told
reporters in Helsinki today. “I’m only asking for further
examination.” He said there’s no “clear-cut concept” of a
euro-area budget at present and called on leaders to explore
“how we can give stability to the euro zone and how we can help
in some way countries embarking on structural reforms.”  ‘Economic Shocks’  The euro extended gains after the report was published and
traded at $1.2971 at 4:10 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.3 percent on
the day.  Van Rompuy issued the proposals after consultations with
 European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi , European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  and Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs meetings of euro-area finance
ministers.  The paper was silent on the size of a possible euro-area
budget, which could be used to buffer “country-specific
economic shocks.” A euro-area treasury could have the power to
borrow as another possible route to “fiscal risk sharing,” the
paper said.  “There are various ways of progressing toward fiscal
union,” according the paper. “The crisis has underlined the
high level of interdependence between euro-area countries and
even beyond. It has shown that national budgetary policies are a
matter of vital common interest.”  ‘Resolution Tools’  The report reinforced EU efforts to integrate its banking
sector, endorsing current plans for a common supervisor and
emphasizing the need to consider better ways to handle failing
banks. The debt crisis has caused the financial sector to
fragment, hurting credit markets and imposing increased cleanup
costs on taxpayers.  “The absence of common bank resolution tools has hampered
effective  crisis management ,” according to the report.  EU leaders decided in June to create a common bank
supervisor at the European Central Bank to pave the way for
direct bank bailouts from the euro area’s firewall fund.
Creating a single supervisor should be “a matter of priority,”
today’s report said.  Finance ministers meeting this week in Luxembourg
acknowledged the EU is unlikely to implement the new supervision
regime by the start of 2013 as initially hoped. Any delays mean
a longer wait for  Spain , which is looking to hand off its
financial-sector rescue to the 500 billion-euro ($648 billion)
European Stability Mechanism once the new system is in place.  Common Framework  Non-euro nations that join the common supervisor, which
will oversee all banks within the single-currency bloc, should
be treated fairly, according to the report. The new supervisor
needs to strike a balance between rights and obligations for all
participating nations, it said.  In the longer term, the EU needs a common framework for
shutting down banks “swiftly, impartially and in the best
interests of all,” backed by a common resolution authority
“with an appropriate backstop.”  The report affirmed the EU’s plan to use the ESM to aid
banks directly as long as there are appropriate conditions in
place.  The report also called for national deposit guarantee
schemes built on common standards. It did not include any
mention of a cross-border deposit insurance fund, which had been
an element of previous EU banking-union planning.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  