-- Euro-Region Industrial Output Unexpectedly Increases
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-10-12T10:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/euro-region-industrial-output-unexpectedly-increased-in-august.html
Euro-region  industrial production 
unexpectedly increased for a second month in August, led by
rising output in countries including  Italy  and  France .  Output in the 17-member euro area rose 0.6 percent from
July, when it also increased by that amount, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists
had projected a drop of 0.4 percent, the median of 36 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey showed. From a year ago, output
slipped 2.9 percent after a 2.8 percent decline in July.  The European economy remains under pressure from the
region’s fiscal crisis and faltering global growth, while
economists at ING Bank and UniCredit said the surge in
industrial output may reflect seasonal volatility. The
International Monetary Fund cut its euro-area outlook earlier
this week, saying a further escalation of the turmoil remains
“a major downside risk.” Global officials are gathering for
IMF and World Bank meetings in  Tokyo  today.  “We would not exclude the possibility of a sharp reversal
in September,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING in
Amsterdam. “With the global economy slowing and the fiscal
squeeze in the euro zone continuing, any upturn in euro-zone
industrial activity will likely be modest.”  The euro traded at $1.2973 as of 12:06 p.m. in Brussels, up
0.4 percent on the day. Both the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index and
Germany’s DAX benchmark dropped 0.4 percent.  Economic Outlook  The euro-area economy probably shrank 0.3 percent in the
third quarter after a 0.2 percent contraction in the previous
three months, according to a Bloomberg News survey. It may
shrink 0.4 percent this year before expanding 0.2 percent in
2013, the IMF said on Oct. 9. It had previously forecast an
expansion of 0.7 percent next year.  In  Germany , industrial production fell 0.4 percent in
August from the previous month, when it rose 1.3 percent,
today’s report showed. France and Italy reported increases of
1.5 percent and 1.7 percent, respectively. Spanish output
advanced 1.3 percent, while  Greece  had a jump of 2.5 percent
from July, when it rose 2.2 percent.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said today that
global finance chiefs meeting in Tokyo acknowledged that Europe
has made “significant progress” in overcoming the crisis.
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said at the same briefing
that while the global economy is “in a difficult situation,”
there’s no reason for pessimism on the outlook.  ‘Tense Situation’  Companies have been forced to cut costs and eliminate jobs
to weather the downturn. The euro-area  unemployment rate  reached
a record 11.4 percent in June and held at that level through
August.  Economic confidence  unexpectedly fell in September,
partly as manufacturers grew more pessimistic.  Christian Klingler, sales chief at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said in a
statement on Sept. 14 that the Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker
is “monitoring the continued tense situation, particularly in
Western Europe, very closely.”  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  Fiat SpA (F) 
have moved to cut production, with the European car market
poised to shrink for a fifth straight year.  MAN SE, the truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen, said today
that 2013 will be even tougher than this year as orders in the
third quarter slumped more than normal. The Munich-based company
has announced a hiring freeze.  Euro-area output of  capital goods  rose 0.7 percent in
August from the previous month, when it increased 2 percent,
today’s report showed. Production of durable consumer goods
gained 3.9 percent, while output of intermediate goods was
unchanged in the month. Energy production rose 0.9 percent.  ECB Plan  The IMF forecasts that the world economy will grow 3.3
percent this year, the weakest pace since the 2009 recession.
There are “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown, it
said.  “A key issue is whether the global economy is just hitting
another bout of turbulence in what was always expected to be a
slow and bumpy recovery or whether the current slowdown has a
more lasting component,” the IMF said. “The answer depends on
whether European and U.S. policy makers deal proactively with
their major short-term economic challenges.”  In the U.S., the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
index of U.S. consumer sentiment probably fell in October, a
Bloomberg survey shows ahead of today’s release. The Federal
Reserve last month announced its third round of large-scale
asset purchases since 2008, with no limit this time on the
ultimate amount it would buy or the duration.  Stimulus  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke says stimulus will be expanded
until there’s a “sustained improvement” in the labor market.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said on Oct. 4
that indicators confirm “the continuation of weak economic
activity in the third quarter.” The Frankfurt-based central
bank, which has cut borrowing costs to a record low, last month
unveiled details of a bond-purchase program to help debt-
burdened nations if they ask for aid.  Alessandro Tentori, an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
 London , said he expects the ECB to cut its benchmark interest
rate by 25 basis points from 0.75 percent in December.  “This should be followed then in the first quarter 2013 by
further easing,” he told Caroline Hyde on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” on Oct. 9. Still,“monetary policy
alone can’t work in such an environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  