-- European Stocks Fall as Lagarde Warning Offsets U.S. Data
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-10-12T16:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/european-stock-futures-decline-amid-concerns-on-growth.html
European stocks declined for the
fourth time in five days as  International Monetary Fund  Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said global growth is not fast enough
to curb unemployment, and Chinese new lending missed estimates,
outweighing better-than-expected U.S.  consumer confidence  data.  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  slid 6.1 percent as Chief Executive Officer
Ton Buechner extended his leave from the company.  MAN SE (MAN)  fell
3.3 percent after it said 2013 will be tougher than this year.
Standard Chartered Plc and  Axa SA (CS)  climbed as Deutsche Bank AG
raised its rating for the banking and insurance sectors.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.5 percent to 269.43 at
the close of trading. The measure lost 1.7 percent this week as
the International Monetary Fund cut its global growth forecasts
and European Union leaders met to discuss the region’s debt
crisis.  “The market is nervously trying to focus on where the
growth is going to come from,”  James Bevan , chief investment
officer at CCLA Investment Management Ltd., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “We know the central banks are prepared
to print money. What we haven’t seen is any follow through from
the fundamental real economy.”  In an interview with the British Broadcasting Corp. in
 Tokyo  today, Lagarde said growth in advanced economies is
“tepid” and that the two main areas of uncertainty are the
euro region and the U.S., adding policy makers need to do more
to provide more certainty.  In  China , new lending missed analysts’ estimates last month
as the government struggles to reverse a slowdown in the world’s
second-biggest economy. Banks extended 623.2 billion  yuan  ($99.5
billion) of local-currency loans, the  People’s Bank of China 
said on its website today. That compares with the median
estimate of 700 billion yuan in a  Bloomberg News  survey of
economists.  U.S. Confidence  Stocks briefly pared losses after data showed confidence
among U.S. consumers unexpectedly jumped in October to the
highest level since before the recession began five years ago.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
October consumer  sentiment  index increased to 83.1 from 78.3 the
prior month. The gauge was projected to fall to 78, according to
the median forecast of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Euro-region  industrial production  unexpectedly increased
for a second month in August. Output rose 0.6 percent from July,
when it expanded a revised 0.6 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had
projected a drop of 0.4 percent, the median of 36 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. From a year ago, output slipped 2.9
percent after a 2.8 percent decline in July.  National benchmark indexes fell in 13 of the 18 western
 European (SXXP)  markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 retreated 0.6 percent,
 France ’s CAC 40 lost 0.7 percent and  Germany ’s DAX declined 0.7
percent.  Akzo Nobel  Akzo Nobel, the world’s largest paintmaker, fell 6.1
percent to 42.08 euros, its biggest drop in more than a year.
The company’s supervisory board will meet on Oct. 17 to discuss
the health situation of Buechner, who took leave last month,
citing fatigue, and was expected to return in the first half of
October.  MAN fell 3.3 percent to 75 euros. The truckmaker controlled
by  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  said next year will be tougher than 2012 as
orders in the third quarter fell more than normal for the
season.  Spectris Plc (SXS) , a maker of production-testing gears, slid the
most in more than a year, falling 6.7 percent to 1,549 pence
after sector peer Morgan Crucible Co. said it will shut down
plants in Europe to offset a greater-than-expected drop in
revenue.  Lanxess Drops  Lanxess AG (LXS) , a German chemical maker, retreated 4.4 percent
to 60.21 euros. Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the stock to
underperform, similar to a sell rating, from neutral.  Saipem SpA (SPM) , the Milan-based oil services contractor,
declined 5.6 percent to 35.21 euros. The stock was cut to
neutral from buy at Nomura Holdings Inc.  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  dropped 2.6 percent to 119.90 kronor. The stock
was cut to hold from buy at Deutsche Bank.  Banks gained after Deutsche Bank upgraded European lenders
and insurance companies to overweight, a recommendation similar
to buy, and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  posted a third-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates.  Net income  at the biggest U.S. bank by assets rose 34
percent to $5.71 billion, or $1.40 a share, from $4.26 billion,
or $1.02, a year earlier, the New York-based company said today
in a statement. Earnings compared with an average estimate of
$1.20 among 30 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  added 2.3 percent to 1,427.5 pence
while National Bank of Greece SA advanced 2.9 percent to 2.12
euros.  Axa, Europe’s second-largest insurer, climbed 0.7 percent
to 11.75 euros.  STMicro Surges  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  jumped 6.4 percent to 4.67 euros.
Europe’s largest semiconductor maker is evaluating a breakup
that may lead to a sale of its struggling mobile-phone chip
business, according to people familiar with the matter.  The company may split its analog business, which makes
chips and sensors used in products from cars to video-game
consoles, from its digital assets, which focus on semiconductors
used in set-top boxes, televisions and handsets, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
are private.  Software AG (SOW) , the German infrastructure software provider,
surged 12 percent, the most in a year, to 30.35 euros after it
confirmed its full-year forecast and said it expects growth in
license sales to continue in the fourth-quarter.  Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Co. (EEEK)  advanced 7 percent to 16.75
euros. The stock was upgraded to overweight, meaning investors
should buy the shares, from neutral at JPMorgan after it
announced plans yesterday to move its main stock listing from
 Athens  to  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  