-- Europe Stocks Drop for Third Week in Four
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/europe-stocks-drop-for-third-week-in-four.html
European stocks  dropped for a third
week in four as the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World
Bank  lowered economic-growth forecasts and companies predicted
their earnings will miss estimates.  Morgan Crucible Co. and  Cookson Group (CKSN)  Plc tumbled at least
14 percent after saying their full-year performance will fall
short of targets. Semiconductor makers retreated as America’s
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  cut its sales forecast.  Marine
Harvest ASA (MHG)  lost 5.2 percent after warning that profit will miss
analyst estimates.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  declined 1.7 percent to 269.43
this week, after gaining 2.1 percent the previous week. The
gauge has still climbed 15 percent from this year’s low on June
4, bolstered by bond-purchasing programs from the  European
Central Bank  and the  Federal Reserve .  “You need to see the data improve, the macro data to
improve and the situation in Europe to improve before the market
can move further,”  Nick Nelson , a strategist at UBS AG, said on
Bloomberg Television in London on Oct. 11. “You have to get the
fundamentals improving now, it can’t just be liquidity.”  The IMF cut its global-growth estimate to 3.3 percent this
year, the slowest since 2009, and reduced its estimate for the
next year to 3.6 percent. That compares with July predictions of
3.5 percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013.  The World Bank reduced its growth forecast for East Asia,
which excludes Japan and India, to 7.2 percent this year from
8.3 percent in 2011. That is the slowest pace since 2001,
according to World Bank data, and lower than a estimate in May
of 7.6 percent.  U.S. Economy  Losses in Europe  were limited after U.S. reports showed
jobless claims fell to the lowest since February 2008 in the
week ended Oct. 6, while consumer confidence unexpectedly
climbed this month. The Federal Reserve also said in its
anecdotal survey, known as the Beige Book, that the  U.S. economy 
was expanding “modestly” last month.  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets this week. Germany’s DAX slid 2.2 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 1.3 percent, France’s CAC 40 retreated 2
percent. Spain’s IBEX 35 declined 3.8 percent as  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded the country’s debt to one level above junk.  Morgan Crucible (MGCR) , which makes carbon materials for medical
and transportation equipment, tumbled 19 percent after saying
trading conditions had deteriorated across most regions in the
third quarter.  Cookson Forecast  Cookson Group, a British supplier of materials to the steel
and glass industry, plunged 14 percent after predicting that its
annual performance will be “materially” below its target.
Weakening demand and trading at the engineered-ceramics division
will weigh on results, the London-based company said  A gauge of European  technology companies  retreated 2.8
percent after AMD, the second-largest maker of processors for
personal computers, said third-quarter revenue will slide about
10 percent from the prior period, more than the decline of about
1 percent it had previously projected.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , which last month said sales in
the current quarter will drop as much as 10 percent from the
three months ended September, fell 3.5 percent. ASML Holding NV
declined 5 percent and ASM International NV lost 6.3 percent.  ‘Challenging Conditions’  Marine Harvest retreated 5.2 percent after  the world’s
biggest salmon farmer  said its third-quarter profit will miss
analyst forecasts because of “challenging market conditions”
in Chile and Canada.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  jumped 9.4 percent after the U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods maker reported a recovery in retail sales
growth since its September profit warning.  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 1 percent in the
second quarter, an improvement on the unchanged performance
Burberry reported on Sept. 11 for the first 10 weeks of the
period. The retailer also raised its guidance for the second-
half retail and wholesale operating margin. The profit measure
will be in line with last year, according to Burberry, which had
previously predicted a decline.  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the London-listed holding company with mining
assets in Indonesia, surged 64 percent as the southeast Asian
nation’s Bakrie family offered to buy back the coal assets it
helped bring to the London market with  Nathaniel Rothschild  in a
$3 billion deal two years ago.  Shareholder Losses  Investors in the 2010 initial public offering of
Rothschild’s Vallar Plc, the precursor to Bumi, saw the drop in
the value of their holdings reach as much as 88 percent last
month after it announced an investigation into financial
“irregularities” at its Indonesian investments. The probe
marked the height of a dispute between Rothschild, 41, and
Indonesia’s prominent Bakrie family, which founded a palm oil-
to-property empire in 1942.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  rallied 5.1 percent after people
familiar with the matter said the company is evaluating a
breakup that may lead to a sale of its struggling mobile-phone
chip business.  Europe’s largest semiconductor maker may split its analog
business, which makes chips and sensors used in products from
cars to video-game consoles, from its digital assets, which
focus on semiconductors used in set-top boxes, televisions and
handsets, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions are private.  In a statement, STMicroelectronics said it denies “the
existence of initiatives which can compromise the unity of the
company.”  Direct Line Insurance Group Plc climbed 6.6 percent in its
first two days of trading after its initial public offering.
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  raised 787 million pounds ($1.3
billion) from the IPO, which has been forced by European Union
regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  