-- Euro Advances for Second Day on Europe Speculation; Rand Slides
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-10-12T21:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/euro-strengthens-for-second-day-amid-spanish-bailout-speculation.html
The euro gained for a second day
versus the dollar and the yen amid speculation  Spain  is moving
closer to requesting a sovereign bailout and unlocking a
European Central Bank program to curb the region’s debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency pared its advance after Reuters
reported that the European Stability Mechanism lacks the cash to
bail out Spain if the country asks for help before the end of
the year. However, guidelines obtained by Bloomberg News last
month showed the fund has the authority to raise cash by selling
fixed-income securities.  South Africa ’s rand slid against all of
its 16 most-traded peers after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
nation’s credit rating.  “Any bids you see in the price of euro-dollar are
reflective of” optimism that Spain will request aid,  Stephen Gallo , foreign-exchange strategist at Credit Agricole SA in
 London , said in a telephone interview. “No one wants to push
the button extremely aggressively because we don’t know exactly
when Spain will request a bailout, how long it will take.”  The euro gained as much as 0.5 percent to $1.2992 before
trading at $1.2951 at 5 p.m. New York time, up 0.2 percent. It
lost 0.7 percent on the week. The euro rose 0.3 percent to
101.61 yen, paring a 0.9 percent weekly decline, after briefly
exceeding its 200-day moving average for the first time in three
days. The Japanese currency slipped 0.1 percent to 78.44 yen to
the dollar.  U.S. stocks erased gains, with the  S&P 500 Index  declining
0.3 percent after rising earlier as much as 0.4 percent.  Rescue Fund  Reuters’s IFR unit reported that the ESM,  Europe ’s
permanent rescue fund, is prohibited by its rules from lending
out paid-in capital. Citing unnamed banking sources, IFR
reported the ESM isn’t planning to tap markets before January.  Draft guidelines obtained by Bloomberg show that the ESM
will be able to sell a range of bills, bonds and money-market
instruments to raise funds in financial markets.  A measure of volatility among major currencies was at
almost a five-year low. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  index  of implied
volatility among Group of Seven currencies fell to 7.55 percent.
The gauge, based on three-month options, signals the expected
pace of price swings. The five-year average is 12.4 percent.  South Africa’s currency snapped a three-day winning streak
after S&P cut the nation’s credit rating one step to BBB with a
negative outlook as a wave of strikes in the mining industry
cause political uncertainty and social tensions put pressure on
 government spending .  The rand sank 0.8 percent to 8.7295 per dollar after
climbing earlier to 8.5774, the strongest level since Oct. 5.  Aussie Drops  Australia ’s dollar slid against all of its most-traded
peers except the rand as commodities sank. S&P’s GSCI gauge of
raw materials dropped 1 percent. The Aussie depreciated 0.3
percent to $1.0233, falling for the first day this week.  The euro has strengthened 0.6 percent against the greenback
since S&P cut Spain’s sovereign-debt rating on Oct. 10 to BBB-,
one step above junk. The move fueled speculation the nation
would be pressured into seeking a bailout.  Spain’s 10-year bond rose for a third day, pushing its yield
down 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 5.63 percent.
It dropped from the euro-era record of 7.75 percent reached in
July to as low as 5.55 percent after ECB President  Mario Draghi 
said the central bank is ready to do “whatever it takes” to
preserve the euro.  Spanish Decision  While the ECB announced an unlimited bond-purchase program
on Sept. 6 to stem financial turmoil, Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  has held off on deciding whether to request aid, a
condition the bank insists on. European Union leaders will meet
in a two-day  summit  in Brussels next week.  “There is some buying of the euro as investors speculated
the S&P downgrade may hasten Spain’s request for a bailout,”
said Noriaki Murao, New York-based managing director of the
marketing group at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit
of  Japan ’s biggest financial group by market value. “The
markets will be watching if any progress is made at the EU
summit.”  The shared currency will strengthen to $1.35 in the next
three to six months, with the dollar weakened by the  Federal
Reserve ’s third round of asset purchases under the quantitative-
easing stimulus strategy, which may debase the currency,
according to Danske Bank A/S. The U.S. central bank said last
month it will buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a month until the
economic recovery is well-established.  Unwinding Shorts  “We expect the unwinding of short euro positions to
continue, and we also expect the Fed’s open-ended easing program
to support euro-dollar going forward,” Morten Helt, a senior
analyst based in Copenhagen, wrote in a report. “We still like
to buy euro-dollar on dips.” A short position is a bet that a
currency or security will fall.  The dollar remained lower against the euro after U.S.
 consumer confidence  unexpectedly climbed. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary October consumer
 sentiment  index increased to 83.1, from 78.3 the prior month.
The U.S. confidence gauge was projected to decline to 78,
according to the median forecast in a  Bloomberg News  survey.  Singapore ’s currency climbed against all of its 16 most-
traded counterparts after the city-state’s central bank
unexpectedly announced that it would leave monetary policy
unchanged, as inflation risks trump worries over a shrinking
economy.  ‘Appropriate’ Stance  “This policy stance is assessed to be  appropriate  in
containing inflationary pressures and keeping the economy on a
path of restructuring toward sustainable growth,” the Monetary
Authority of Singapore said today in a statement following its
semi-annual exchange-rate review.  There will be no change to the slope and width of the local
currency’s trading band that the MAS uses as its main policy
tool, the bank said. The level at which it is centered will also
remain unchanged, the MAS said.  The  Singapore dollar  strengthened 0.5 percent to S$1.2222
versus its U.S. counterpart. It has advanced 6.2 percent this
year, the best performance after the Mexican peso among the
greenback’s major peers.  The peso gained 0.4 percent today to 12.8682 to the  U.S.
dollar .  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  