-- EU Awarded 2012 Nobel Peace Prize, Norway’s NRK Reports
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-10-12T08:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/european-union-wins-2012-nobel-peace-prize-norway-s-nrk-reports.html
The Norwegian Nobel Committee
awarded the 2012 Peace Prize to the European Union, Norway’s
national broadcaster  NRK reported , without saying where it got
the information.  Geir Lundestad, the director of the Nobel Institute, said
at the Nobel center in Oslo that he had “absolutely no comment
to anything.” Spokespeople for European Union President  Herman
Van Rompuy  and European Commission President  Jose Barroso  had no
immediate comment on the Norwegian report. The prize is
scheduled to be announced at 11 a.m. in Oslo.  Committee Chairman Thorbjoern Jagland said in an interview
in Aftenposten published today that the decision was unanimous
and not particularly complicated without naming the winner.  “It’s unfortunate that they aren’t able to keep quiet,”
said Oeivind Stenersen, a Nobel historian. “You could argue the
EU shouldn’t get it because they are in the midst of a crisis
but that’s precisely why they would need a boost.”  Past peace laureates include U.S. President  Barack Obama  in
2009 and Chinese dissident  Liu Xiaobo  in 2010. Last year, the
prize was awarded to Liberia’s President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf,
Liberian peace activist Leymah Gbowee and Yemen’s Tawakkul
Karman, a human rights activist and journalist.  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite who died in 1896.
The first prizes were handed out in 1901.  A prize for economics was established in 1968 by Sweden’s
Riksbank. All awards except for the peace prize are awarded in
 Stockholm , and this year’s awards come with 8 million kronor
($1.2 million) of prize money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo on  at
 streloar1@blomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  