-- Texas Windmills Make Schools Share With Poorer Districts
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/texas-windmills-make-schools-share-with-poorer-districts.html
Giant turbines that give  Texas  the
largest wind-generating capacity among U.S. states have forced
seven school districts facing budget cuts to share new wealth
from the equipment under the state’s education-finance system.  The Hermleigh Independent School District had to give up $2
million a year -- about the same as its annual budget -- after
growth of local wind-driven generating capacity spurred a 10-
fold increase in district property values per student, according
to a report from Standard & Poor’s.  “You’re only allowed to generate so much revenue, and if
you generate more, you have to give it to the state,” said
Superintendent Gary Rotan from Hermleigh, about 250 miles (400
kilometers) west of Dallas. He cited the so-called Robin Hood
provisions of the law. “Nobody likes to give away money.”  The district’s plight shows what many in the state’s $40
billion school-funding system have known for years: “It’s
broken,” said Christy Rome, executive director of the Texas
School Coalition in Austin. Her group represents districts that
have shared $15 billion under the Robin Hood provision.  Texas ranks 44th in high school graduation rates among U.S.
states, according to data compiled by the  Legislative Budget
Board . The state places 39th in per-pupil spending, averaging
$9,128 for each of 4.85 million students, half of them Hispanic.  Dysfunctional System  What has proven to be a dysfunctional school-finance system
will come under increased scrutiny as five consolidated lawsuits
contesting budget cuts last year go to trial Oct. 22. State
lawmakers, who engineered the $5.4 billion spending reduction,
are hustling to fix it before a judge orders changes.  With the 2013 budget-writing session set to start in
January, the Legislature and Governor  Rick Perry  are gearing up
for a battle over whether to restore some cuts by dipping into a
projected $8 billion reserve fund. Perry, a Republican, has
ruled out use of the so-called Rainy Day fund. Lawmakers are
also exploring new financing methods to provide additional money
as a way to improve education quality.  State leaders, including Perry, have drawn criticism from
supporters of increased school funding because of pledges
they’ve made not to raise taxes and to preserve the reserve fund
for emergencies .  “There is a faction in the state of Texas that wants to
not invest in education,” said Representative Mike Villarreal,
a Democrat from San Antonio, at an Oct. 2 briefing for
reporters. “The root problem is our inadequate tax system. It’s
just a matter of political will.”  Unpopular Effects  In a  survey  of Texans last year, 90 percent said public
schools need more money and 85 percent said education wasn’t a
high enough priority for lawmakers, according to the Texas
Association of School Boards. Raising local taxes for schools
was supported by 69 percent, though in some cases, any increase
would have to be partly shared with other districts.  Besides the Robin Hood provision, put in place in response
to an earlier court decision, school districts must contend with
revenue-raising limits lawmakers imposed because of another
judicial ruling.  While the Legislature decided that the state should pick up
a larger percentage of education costs, it restricted local
property-tax increases. Yet a business levy lawmakers
restructured in 2006 to help provide more funding to public
schools has consistently failed to meet revenue estimates. In
fiscal 2012, which ended Aug. 31, it generated $2.71 billion,
6.9 percent below the budget forecast, according to  state data .  Shrinking Windfalls  When once-poor school districts suddenly find themselves
with new property wealth from wind-energy projects or expanded
oil and gas drilling, they often have to give part of the money
to poorer districts before investing in buildings or teachers.  The Robin Hood law, designed to equalize wealth between
those districts with large property-tax bases and poorer areas,
has grown into a bureaucracy that has more school systems giving
money to the state than ever before. With 23 districts added to
the list this year, more than a third of the total, or 374 out
of 1,029, send new-found property tax revenue to the state.  Though 89 percent of the 2,575 students in the  Port Isabel
Independent School District  are “economically disadvantaged,”
the system sends $20 million a year to the state under the Robin
Hood law because Gulf Coast resort property in the district
classifies it as wealthy, said Superintendent Lisa Garcia.  Squeezing Schools  The lost revenue translates into larger class sizes and
less money to spend helping students who struggle to meet state
testing standards, Garcia said.  “It equates to less instructional material, older
facilities and buses we can’t afford to replace,” she said.
“We’re penalized for being a wealthy district but we have less
to spend than surrounding districts.”  For a year, the  E.On Ag (EOAN)  wind farm on Roscoe, Texas, cotton
fields boosted local school-district property taxes so much that
the system had to share some of its revenue.  A year later, after the wind-powered turbines were
depreciated for tax purposes, it rejoined the ranks of poor
districts and bore its share of the $5.4 billion of spending
cuts in the current budget, said Superintendent Kim Alexander.
The district hasn’t replaced eight teachers dismissed in the
2003-2004 school year while enrollment has grown 59 percent to
465 students, he said.  “We haven’t been able to add back any teachers,”
Alexander said from the district about 230 miles west of Dallas.
“This is not a new problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  