-- Lexus Sedans at Risk for Trunk Entrapment, Magazine Says
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-10-12T20:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/lexus-sedans-at-risk-for-trunk-entrapment-magazine-says.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s new Lexus ES
and GS sedans have emergency trunk release handles that break
too easily and risk trapping someone in the cargo space of the
luxury cars, according to Consumer Reports magazine.  The flaw was found by accident during an evaluation of 2013
models of the two cars, the nonprofit publication said in a
statement. The 4-year-old son of Jake Fisher, director of
vehicle testing for Yonkers, New York-based Consumer Reports,
got into the ES 350’s trunk to try the interior release, Fisher
said.  The boy’s “small hands snapped off the lever that opens
the lid. He was not able to escape from the trunk until I opened
it from the outside,” Fisher said in the statement. Tests of
release handles in 2013 ES hybrid and GS 350 sedans showed they
too could snap if “pulled toward the driver’s side,” he said.  The issue follows Toyota’s global recall of 7.4 million
vehicles this week, the most ever, to fix faulty power-window
switches. The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker has been
working to overhaul its reputation for safety and quality after
repairing millions of autos worldwide in 2009 and 2010 for
floor-mat and gas-pedal defects linked to unintended
acceleration.  Consumer Reports said it notified both Toyota and the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration about the matter.  Toyota’s Investigation  Toyota is investigating the “durability and ergonomics of
the emergency trunk release lever,” said John Hanson, a
spokesman for the company’s U.S. unit. “This is an active
investigation,” he said, without elaborating.  Starting in the 2002 model year “all cars with trunks have
included a trunk-entrapment safety release that glows in the
dark and allows a person to open the trunk lid from inside,”
Fisher said in the statement. “This simple feature helps
mitigate a rare, but potentially tragic situation.”  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is based in Torrance,  California .
The company’s American depositary receipts fell 0.2 percent to
$74.67 at the close in New York. They have gained 13 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  