-- Finance Chiefs Appeal for U.S. to Avoid From Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-12T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/finance-chiefs-appeal-for-u-s-to-steer-away-from-fiscal-cliff.html
The U.S. is facing pressure to avoid
running off its fiscal cliff amid warnings that failure to
change course would trigger another global recession.  “People are concerned,” U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  told reporters yesterday at the International
Monetary Fund’s annual meeting in Tokyo. “There was quite a lot
of discussion.”  The U.S. will incur $100 billion in automatic spending cuts
and more than $500 billion in expiring tax reductions in
January, unless lawmakers strike a deal. The IMF this week said
such a consolidation would tighten fiscal policy by 4 percent of
gross domestic product, the most since the 1940s.  That’s powerful enough to ricochet around the world economy
as a recovery from the 2009 recession already shows signs of
weakening, said Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty .  “It’s a very serious situation for all of North America
and for the entire world,” Flaherty told Bloomberg Television
on Oct. 11. “It means we’ll all go into recession. So it’s
important this gets dealt with.”  Failure ‘Unacceptable’  Failure to craft a solution “is not acceptable at all,”
 Bank of America  Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
said in an interview in Tokyo. “It’s important that it’s done
sooner rather than later. We’ve been feeling it since last
summer; to take that uncertainty away is key.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said on Oct. 11
he agreed a delay isn’t a “responsible” strategy and that any
accord should allow for deficit reduction over time and open up
room for shorter-term investment.  “We’re going to take a run at it,” he said.  Brazil again criticized the Federal Reserve for embarking
upon another round of asset purchases. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said such a policy is “selfish” because it hurts
emerging markets such as his by subjecting them to volatile
capital flows and currency movements.  “Brazil, for one, will take whatever measures it deems
necessary to avoid the detrimental effects of these
spillovers,” he said.  With next month’s presidential election capturing the
attention of U.S. politicians, a bipartisan group of senators
met this week to debate ways to reach a long-term deficit-
reduction agreement. President  Barack Obama  has said he wants to
allow scheduled tax increases on the wealthy. Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney  opposes any rise.  ‘Two-Step Dance’  The most likely outcome is a “two-step dance,”  Vincent Reinhart ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s chief economist and a former Fed
official, told a banking conference in Tokyo. Congress will
extend almost all the provisions and promise more fundamental
changes later, he said.  “At present, the U.S. has a lot of credibility, the U.S.
government has a lot of credibility, the fiscal account doesn’t
yet suffer from this correction, but this will not last
forever,”  Carlo Cottarelli , the IMF’s director of fiscal
affairs, said on Oct. 9. “So there is a need for a plan.”  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann identified the fiscal
cliff as one of the reasons for the global economy being “in a
difficult situation.” French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici 
told reporters that the  U.S. economy  is “very solid.”  “I am sure they’ll find the way to climb their fiscal
cliff,” he said.  Some signaled confidence that lawmakers will reach an
agreement. South Korea Finance Minister Bahk Jae-Wan expressed
“irresponsible optimism,” while World Bank President Jim Yong Kim said he’s “optimistic.”  “This is a real test of leadership for legislators in the
U.S.,” Kim said to Bloomberg Television. “After this election
is over, it’s very important that they take positive steps.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Tokyo at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in Tokoy at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  