-- Food-Stamp Overpayments Drop With Record Usage: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-10-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/food-stamp-overpayments-drop-with-record-usage-bgov-barometer.html
Food-stamp overpayments have dropped
to record lows even as the number of Americans receiving aid is
at an all-time high, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture
data.  The BGOV Barometer shows the percentage of food-stamp
payments that were above program guidelines fell to  2.99 percent 
in the year ended Sept. 30, 2011, the most recent available,
according to the department. The overpayment rate was less than
half what it was a decade earlier, while the number of
recipients more than doubled to 44.7 million people on average
in 2011.  “We’ve been able to do this at a time when enrollments are
at a record and staffs have been reduced,” said  Kevin Concannon , the USDA undersecretary who oversees food stamps, in
an interview. Better training for workers who administer
benefits, streamlined eligibility requirements and improved
computer programs that help determine aid amounts have all
helped lower the overpayment rate, he said.  Food stamps, whose roots date to the Great Depression, has
been highlighted in the presidential campaign, with Republican
 Mitt Romney  cited the program’s growth as evidence of what he
said are the failing economic policies of President  Barack Obama 
in the first presidential debate. The House budget approved in
April, sponsored by Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin,
Romney’s vice presidential running mate, would cut food-stamp
spending by $33 billion over 10 years.  Spending Doubles  A record 46.68 million Americans received  food stamps  in
July, the most recent month for which data was available, the
government said last week. Monthly spending on the Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program reached $6.26 billion, also a
record and 2.9 percent more than a year earlier. Its cost more
than doubled in four years to a record  $75.7 billion  in the 12
months ended Sept. 30, 2011, and is the department’s biggest
annual expense.  The size of the overpayments varies from case to case, the
USDA said. The overpayment rate, representing payments that were
higher than they should have been, is separate from the amount
of food-stamp spending lost to fraud and abuse, which is about 1
percent of expenditures, Concannon said. In 2011,  Alaska  had the
lowest overpayment rate, at 0.53 percent, followed by Florida at
0.68 percent. The highest rate was in  Wyoming , at 7.63 percent,
followed by  Vermont .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  