-- Fortunes Fall for Two of Japan’s Richest, Son and Yanai
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C h u
-- 2012-10-12T06:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/fortunes-fall-for-two-of-japan-s-richest-son-and-yanai.html
Japan ’s richest man, Tadashi Yanai,
and the nation’s second wealthiest, Masayoshi Son, lost a
combined $2.4 billion in net worth today as shares in the
companies they founded plunged.  Yanai, the chairman of  Fast Retailing Co. (9984) , lost $1.1
billion to $10.3 billion, as shares in Asia’s biggest clothing
retailer closed down 9.9 percent in  Tokyo . Softbank Corp.
President Son’s net worth slid $1.3 billion to $7.7 billion
after Japan’s third-largest mobile Internet company said it’s in
talks to acquire a substantial stake in  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
Softbank stock dived 16.8 percent.  The fortunes of both men are driven by their public
holdings. Yanai had an estimated net worth of $11.4 billion as
of 5:30 P.M  New York  time yesterday, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index. He and his family control about 45.8 percent
of Fast Retailing, and those holdings account for 96 percent of
his wealth. Son’s fortune, of which 92 percent comes from equity
in Softbank, was valued at $9.1 billion yesterday. He owns 20.9
percent in the company. Yanai is also a Softbank board member
and holds 120,000 shares in Son’s company.  Fast Retailing shares tumbled the most in more than a year
after the company forecast annual profit that was lower than
analysts’ estimates. The seller of Uniqlo brand casual wear said
its stores in China,  South Korea , the U.K. and the U.S. missed
revenue targets.  Softbank Drops  Softbank plummeted -- the biggest decline since March 2000
-- amid concern that turning around Sprint Nextel would be too
costly. Softbank is seeking majority control of the U.S.
carrier, two people familiar with the matter said.  “Investors tend to worry more about the financial burdens
initially when it comes to any major purchases, rather than
hopes for growth,” said Takashi Oba, a senior strategist at
Okasan Securities Co.  The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York. The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars. The collective wealth of the index is
$1.9 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Chu in Tokyo at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  