-- General Dynamics Wins Pentagon Backing for More Radios
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-10-12T21:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/general-dynamics-wins-pentagon-backing-for-more-radios.html
The Pentagon’s top weapons buyer has
approved continued production of a  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) 
infantry radio that the Defense Department’s chief tester found
ineffective and unreliable earlier this year.  Frank Kendall, the under secretary of defense for
acquisition, backed the purchase of as many as 3,726 two-channel
digital radios for infantry rucksacks and vehicles, in addition
to the 100 already under contract, according to an Oct. 11 memo
obtained by  Bloomberg News . The order may be valued at more than
$250 million.  The Defense Department’s testing office in July criticized
the Manpack radio and recommended additional testing before
Kendall’s office made a decision on whether to increase
quantities. The radio, as configured in response to some of its
earlier flaws, “demonstrated adequate” range, “but continued
to demonstrate poor reliability,” Pentagon test director
 Michael Gilmore  said today in an e-mailed statement.  Kendall also gave other companies such as  Harris Corp. (HRS)  a
chance to bid on the bulk of the 71,814 Manpack radios the Army
intends to buy. In the memo, he directed the service to conduct
a “full and open” competition for radios starting no later
than July 2013.  The second batch of radios will be used for testing and
development until a decision is made on full-rate production and
potential deployment in the field, Army spokesman Matthew Bourke
said in an e-mailed statement.  The Manpack radio is part of the Joint Tactical Radio
System. The Pentagon in July approved production of 13,077
additional handheld Rifleman JTRS radios also made by  Falls
Church , Virginia-based General Dynamics.  ‘Poor Reliability’  Gilmore said today that his earlier criticism was based on
the radio’s performance “in a stressing” environment “where
soldiers operated the radios in a manner which represents combat
conditions.” Under those conditions, the radio “exhibited poor
reliability” and “inadequate” range, he said.  The latest test this month was in a “benign” environment
and “not designed to replicate realistic combat conditions nor
was it designed to test the full functionality of the radio,”
Gilmore wrote.  Kendall said in his memo that the Army needed to ensure the
service “addresses deficiencies” identified by the test office
and in the latest round of evaluations.  While he didn’t provide details of the latest test results,
Kendall said the radio has met criteria he set for proceeding
with additional limited production “in a developmental test
environment.”  Improving Reliability  Kendall also directed the Army to perform a thorough
“reliability growth analysis” and “develop a detailed plan
for achieving required reliability.”  “The Army will proceed in its acquisition strategy of a
full and open competition,” Kendall wrote.  Chris Marzilli, General Dynamics’ president of C4 Systems,
said in an e-mailed statement that the company expects the
contract to be valued at more than $250 million.  The radios use “government-owned, non-proprietary software
to not only preserve soldiers’ ability to use legacy radios but
also places in their hands transformational capability,” he
said.  Asked about Gilmore’s e-mail, Marzilli wrote, “We are
pleased with the decision to issue” the order, and “we will
support the Army in completing the remaining tasks outlined by”
Kendall’s memo.  The radios are made at General Dynamics’ Scottsdale,
 Arizona , facility.  Harris has repeatedly expressed interest in bidding on the
program. The  Melbourne , Florida-based company says it has more
than 68 percent of the market for such tactical radios.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  