-- German Stocks Decline, Exending DAX Index’s Weekly Drop
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-10-12T15:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/german-stocks-decline-exending-dax-index-s-weekly-drop.html
German stocks  fell, extending the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) ’s weekly decline, as indications that the
Asian economy is slowing outweighed a surprise increase in U.S.
consumer sentiment.  Lanxess AG (LXS) , the German maker of specialty chemicals,
retreated 4.4 percent after Credit Suisse Group AG and Barclays
Plc cut their recommendations.  MAN SE (MAN) , the truckmaker controlled
by Volkswagen AG, slid 3.3 percent after saying next year will
be even tougher than 2012 as orders in the third quarter slumped
more than normal.  The DAX fell 0.7 percent to 7,232.49 at the close in
 Frankfurt , after shifting between gains and losses at least 10
times. The measure has still  rallied 21 percent  from this year’s
low on June 5 as European Central Bank policy makers approved an
unlimited bond-buying program and the U.S. Federal Reserve
started a third round of asset purchases. The broader HDAX Index
also dropped 0.7 percent today.  “Stocks are caught in a range,” said Witold Bahrke, a
senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen, where he
helps oversee $55 billion. “The risk is limited by investors
expecting  Spain  to inevitably seek a bailout, while the upside
is capped by insecurity about the U.S. political situation and
macro data still not showing signs of a substantial
improvements.”  The DAX has declined 2.2 percent this week as the
 International Monetary Fund  cut its global growth forecasts.  Chinese Loans  China ’s  new lending  missed forecasts last month as the
government struggles to reverse a slowdown in the world’s
second-biggest economy. Banks extended 623.2 billion  yuan  ($99.5
billion) of local-currency loans, the People’s Bank of China
said today. That compared with the median estimate of 700
billion yuan in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The DAX briefly erased its losses after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary U.S.  consumer
sentiment index  increased to 83.1 this month from 78.3 in
September. The gauge was projected to fall to 78, according to
the median forecast of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Euro-region  industrial production  unexpectedly increased
for a second month in August. Output rose 0.6 percent from July,
when it expanded a revised 0.6 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had
projected a drop of 0.4 percent, the median of 36 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News  survey. From a year ago, output slipped 2.9
percent after a 2.8 percent decline in July.  Lanxess Falls  Lanxess dropped 4.4 percent to 60.21 euros, the largest
decrease since July 23. Barclays cut its recommendation on the
German specialty chemicals maker to equal weight, the equivalent
of hold, from overweight. Credit Suisse downgraded its rating to
underperform from neutral, meaning investors should sell the
shares.  MAN slid 3.3 percent to 75 euros, the biggest retreat since
July 26. The truckmaker’s decline in third-quarter business was
stronger than seasonal patterns, Chief Financial Officer Frank
Lutz said today at an analyst meeting in Nuremberg. Stefan
Straub, a spokesman for the Munich-based company confirmed the
comments.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  slipped 2.1 percent to 9.16 euros. A
shareholder sued the board of MetroPCS Communications Inc. over
its proposed tie-up with the German phone company’s  T-Mobile USA 
unit, claiming it fails to provide stockholders adequate
compensation.  Best Deal  Paul Benn, a shareholder in the mobile-phone company,
argued the deal would give Deutsche Telekom an “unfair and
unjustified windfall” and the directors failed their duty to
get the best deal, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington. Benn seeks to represent
all investors as a group.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany’s second-largest bank , gained 1.9
percent to 1.48 euros. JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest U.S.
bank by assets, posted a record third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as mortgage revenue soared 72 percent.  Software AG (SOW)  surged 12 percent to 30.35 euros, the biggest
gain in almost a year. The infrastructure software provider
confirmed its annual forecast and said growth in license sales
is expected to continue in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  