-- Spanish Bonds Climb Amid Bailout Speculation as Irish Debt Gains
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-10-12T15:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/german-bunds-advance-before-euro-region-industrial-output-report.html
Spain ’s bonds led gains among the
government securities of  Europe ’s most-indebted nations amid
speculation the country is poised to ask for a sovereign bailout
that will trigger European Central Bank purchases of its debt.  The advance pushed 10-year  Spanish yields  to the lowest
levels in almost a month. The rate on  Italy ’s two-year notes
fell the most in more than a week after German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Europe has made “significant progress”
in overcoming a crisis of confidence in the euro. Ireland’s
 nine-year yields  fell to the least since June 2010.  “There has been a market rumor Spain would ask for a
bailout this weekend,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-
income strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “It
could be that is helping the periphery today but I don’t ascribe
any weight to it. We are caught in a paradox, the market has
been buoyed by expectations of a bailout but Spain is likely to
resist for as long as possible.”  Spanish  10-year yields  declined 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, to 5.62 percent at 4:07 p.m. London time, six
basis points lower in the week. The yield earlier reached 5.61
percent, the least since Sept. 14. The 5.85 percent security
maturing in January 2022 rose 0.995, or 9.95 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,296) face amount, to 101.58. Two-year note yields
dropped 14 basis points to 3.08 percent.  Spain wants there to be consensus among European
governments on any bailout request before deciding whether to
ask for help, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria
said yesterday.  Spain’s Ratings  Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s sovereign-debt rating to
one level above non-investment grade this week and Moody’s
Investors Service is studying a possible downgrade from its
current Baa3 level, its lowest investment-grade rank.  “We fear that Moody’s cut of Spain’s rating will come
before the country’s official request for help,” strategists at
Societe Generale SA led by Paris-based Vincent Chaigneau, the
global head of interest-rate strategy, wrote in a note to
investors. “This calm is not going to last.”  Italian two-year  note yields fell as much as 14 basis
points to 2.12 percent, the biggest decline since Oct. 2. The
rate was heading for a weekly drop of six basis points.  “This time there is a much more positive underlying
sentiment” among global finance chiefs toward Europe, Schaeuble
said today at a briefing with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
in  Tokyo , which is hosting the annual  International Monetary
Fund  and World Bank meetings. European participants at the
gathering have agreed that “we explain very precisely and
openly what we’re doing, what we’ve achieved and what progress
we’ve made.”  ‘Credible Backstop’  Spain’s 10-year rate has declined more than two percentage
points since reaching a euro-era high of 7.75 percent on July
25, the day before ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do
“whatever it takes” to safeguard Europe’s monetary union. It
is still above this year’s low of 4.83 percent.  “People are buying on the dips for Italy and Spain,” said
Elaine Lin, a strategist at Morgan Stanley in London. “The idea
that the ECB might come in and buy the bonds is a credible
backstop and stops people aggressively shorting these bonds.”  A short position is a bet an asset will fall in price.  Volatility on Ireland’s government bonds was the highest in
euro-region markets today, followed by Finland and  Belgium ,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two-
and 10-year securities, and credit default swaps.  The yield on Ireland’s bond due in October 2020 fell 17
basis points to 4.76 percent after touching 4.74 percent, the
 lowest level  since June 2010.  German  government bonds  returned 3 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
outperforming Spanish bonds, which gained 1.8 percent. Irish
bonds have advanced 26 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  