-- Globalfoundries CEO Sees Investment in Client Supply Lock
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-10-12T12:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/globalfoundries-ceo-sees-investments-as-customers-lock-in-supply.html
Globalfoundries Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Ajit Manocha said surging demand for advanced smartphone
parts is stepping up pressure on semiconductor makers to team up
with contract chip manufacturers to ensure adequate supply.  The shrinking number of foundries -- manufacturers that
work for different chipmakers -- and a jump in costs will lead
to more investments and tie-ups between companies such as
Globalfoundries and their customers, he said. Though his company
doesn’t need the money, Manocha said he’s open to customers
having “skin in the game.”  Globalfoundries is one of the few manufacturers able to
spend the billions of dollars required to build factories that
can churn out the processors and communications chips needed to
run the newest handsets, he said. As that process becomes even
more expensive, financial commitments and closer cooperation
from chipmakers looking to lock in a steady flow of components
will replace the “customer-supplier model,” he said.  “We need to make sure we share the losses and we share the
gains,” said Manocha, who took over as chief executive last
June. “There are half a dozen different ways for this
collaborative model I envision.”  Manocha, whose customers include  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and Broadcom
Corp., is setting his stall out in a market where companies have
suffered shortfalls in supply that have crimped earnings. In
June, Qualcomm CEO  Paul Jacobs  said his company was prepared to
write “big checks” to make sure that didn’t happen again.
Manocha declined to comment on his customers or negotiations
under way.  Foundries’ Fortunes  Highlighting the increasing importance of companies such as
Globalfoundries and larger rival  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. (2330) , foundry industry sales will jump 15.9 percent
this year from last year’s $26.5 billion, even as total chip
industry sales decline, according to market researcher IHS.  Globalfoundries, based in Milpitas,  California , was created
in 2009 when the investment arm of the government of  Abu Dhabi 
bought the manufacturing operations of Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. and then merged them with another purchase,  Singapore ’s
Chartered Semiconductor. The company is closely held. While a
sale of shares to the public is an option in the future, there
are no current plans, Manocha said.  Reputation Repair  While Manocha’s prediction for a coming wave of
investments, joint ventures and guaranteed-supply agreements
across the industry is likely to be borne out, his company needs
to keep improving its performance after past slip-ups made
customers leery of giving it too may orders, said Len Jelinek,
an analyst at IHS.  “Their reputation with some of their clients is
stressed,” Jelinek said. “They have to come out from under the
cloak that they are living under.”  In response to such concerns, Manocha said he replaced the
management of the company’s plant in Dresden,  Germany , after
they were slow to transition operations from supplying only AMD
parts to catering to multiple customers. That process also
caused delays in production improvements and led to shortages of
AMD processors last year.  “Today we are meeting or exceeding every single customer
requirement,” he said. “We have caught up on the technology
leadership we lost.”  Globalfoundries’ Dresden and Singapore operations are now
profitable, he said. Its new plant in  New York  state is
producing test chips and hasn’t yet begun to ship for revenue.
Plans to build another site in Abu Dhabi are on hold, he said.  “The question is when, not if,” he said. “But that when
hasn’t been decided yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  