-- Google Antitrust Suit Said to Be Urged by FTC Staffers
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/google-antitrust-suit-said-to-be-urged-by-ftc-staffers.html
U.S. Federal Trade Commission
investigators are circulating an internal draft memo that
recommends suing  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for abusing its dominance of
Internet search in violation of antitrust laws, three people
familiar with the matter said.  The more than 100-page memo has been distributed to the
agency’s five commissioners, who will decide whether to sue, two
of the people said. A majority of commissioners, including FTC
Chairman  Jon Leibowitz , have expressed concerns internally about
Google’s practices, and are deciding how to proceed, two of the
people said.  Separately, the FTC is considering a second lawsuit against
Google for misusing patent protections to block rivals’
smartphones from coming to market, said four people familiar
with the matter who asked not to be named because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly about the investigation.  The staff memo on the Internet search probe sums up the
findings of the FTC’s 19-month investigation into whether
 Mountain View , California-based Google’s business practices
stifle competition. Google and its rivals are starting to meet
individually with commissioners to make their cases before a
final vote by the FTC on whether to pursue the lawsuit, two of
the people said.  ‘Antitrust Poker’  “This is high-stakes antitrust poker and the FTC is upping
the ante,” said  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based analyst with
Guggenheim Securities LLC. “Google is anxious to avoid a
lawsuit but I also don’t think their mindset is ‘settle at any
cost.’”  Peter Kaplan , an FTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
draft memo or the possible suit on patent use.  “We are happy to answer any questions that regulators have
about our business,” Niki Fenwick, a Google spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail.  Regarding the patent probe, Fenwick said, “We take our
commitments to license on fair, reasonable and non-
discriminatory terms very seriously.”  The FTC staff has been examining whether Google unfairly
ranks search results to favor its own businesses and whether
exclusive agreements to provide search services to online
publishers and other websites hurt competition, two of the
people said.  The agency’s investigators have also studied whether the
operator of the world’s most popular search engine increases
advertising rates for competitors and makes it difficult for
advertisers to compare data about campaigns running on rival
sites by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MFST) ’s Bing, the people
said.  Android Review  The agency also is examining whether the company is using
its control of the Android mobile operating system to discourage
smartphone and device makers from using rivals’ applications,
two of the people said.  The FTC began making calls to high-tech companies to gather
information for its probe in April 2011 and Google disclosed in
June of that year that the FTC had begun a review of its
business practices.  On the patent investigation, the agency is scrutinizing
whether a strategy of seeking court orders to ban  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Microsoft from using mobile and video compression technology is
anticompetitive, said the people.  The agency issued a civil investigative demand, which is
similar to a subpoena, seeking to learn whether Google’s
Motorola Mobility unit is honoring pledges it made to license
industry-standard technology for mobile and other devices on
fair terms, three people familiar with the situation said in
June.  Patent Licensing  Industry-standard technology helps ensure that different
manufacturers’ products, such as mobile phone antennas and
global-positioning system software, work together. Companies
that create technology that helps develop the agreed-upon
industry standard pledge to license patents for those inventions
on reasonable terms.  Google has continued litigation started by Motorola
Mobility unit over industry-standard patents before Google
bought the company. Those lawsuits have sought to block imports
of popular consumer products such as Microsoft’s Xbox and
Apple’s iPhone and iPad.  The patents in question relate to standards established by
industry groups for video compression and Wi-Fi technology, one
of the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  