-- Google German Criminal Street View Probe Said to Be Dropped
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-10-12T10:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/google-german-criminal-street-view-probe-said-to-be-dropped-1-.html
German prosecutors will drop a
criminal probe into whether  Google Inc. (GOOG)  illegally gathered
wireless-network data for its Street View mapping service, two
people familiar with the issue said.  Prosecutors in the city of Hamburg didn’t find criminal
violations, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because the matter hasn’t formally ended.  Hamburg prosecutors have finalized their investigation and
are preparing to issue a decision, spokeswoman Nana Frombach
said. They opened the inquiry in 2010 after receiving a
complaint. No suspects were identified.  Google has come under mounting scrutiny from regulators
worldwide over privacy issues related to Street View. The
 Federal Communications Commission  fined Google $25,000 for
impeding its probe of improper data gathering. Norway’s data
watchdog fined Google 250,000 kroner ($43,913) and the French
levied a record 100,000 euro fine. The Paris-based authority
will announce next week the results of its audit into recent
changes to Google’s privacy policy.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , triggered
probes across  Europe  when cars it sent out to take photos for
its Street View service collected so-called payload data from
unrestricted Wi-Fi networks. Google said it was done mistakenly.  Johannes Caspar, the data-protection commissioner of
Hamburg who has also looked into the allegations, said that if
prosecutors dropped the criminal probe, his office will resume
an administrative investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  