-- Micron Says PC Chip Prices Lower Amid Short-Term Glut
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-10-12T20:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/micron-ceo-sees-elpida-deal-closing-first-half-of-2013.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  Chief
Executive Officer Mark Durcan said the memory-chip industry has
scaled back supply enough to stem price declines as soon as
demand for components improves.  “It’s not a long-term issue,” Durcan said at a meeting
with financial analysts today in Boise,  Idaho , where the company
is based. “It’s a short-term issue. If we see any reasonable
macro environment this thing sorts itself out pretty quickly.”  Micron makes dynamic random access memory, used in personal
computers, and so-called Nand flash memory, chips for storing
data in smartphones. Micron and other suppliers of parts for PCs
are experiencing a demand slump as a sluggish economy curbs
purchases at a time of the year when the holiday shopping season
usually boosts orders.  The shares declined 1.4 percent to $5.67 at the close in
New York. The  stock  has lost 9.9 percent this year.  DRAM prices have fallen more than expected this quarter,
while Nand prices gained more than the company had anticipated,
said Mark Adams, Micron’s president.  Durcan also said he expects the acquisition of  Japan ’s
Elpida Inc. to close in the first half of next year as legal
challenges fail to derail the transaction.  “I try to put myself in the position of the court in Japan
in terms of is there any other viable offer out there,” Durcan
said in an interview today. “The conclusion is ‘No, there’s
not.’”  Bondholders ‘Crazy’  Elpida’s bondholders “are crazy to be trying to disrupt
what is clearly the best offer that can possibly come along.”  In July, Micron agreed to acquire bankrupt Elpida Memory
Inc. for 200 billion yen ($2.55 billion). Elpida, the last
Japanese maker of computer-memory chips, sought bankruptcy
protection in February after losses left it unable to pay debts.  The Elpida transaction is aimed at grabbing control of more
supply and making it better able to take on industry leader
Samsung Electronics Co. as well as South Korea’s SK Hynix Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  