-- IEA Sees Oil Supply Rising as Demand Growth Slows to 2017
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-10-12T09:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/iea-sees-oil-supply-rising-as-demand-growth-slows-to-2017.html
Global oil markets will become
better supplied in the next five years as demand growth slows
and production rises in North America and the  Middle East ,
according to the  International Energy Agency .  Worldwide fuel demand is projected to gain 1.2 percent
annually to 95.7 million barrels a day in 2017, from 89 million
last year, the Paris-based energy adviser said in its medium
term oil market report today. Output is forecast to advance
about 1.5 million barrels a day each year to 102 million barrels
a day in the same period. Crude prices may not drop much even as
producers pump more because of increased geopolitical risks, the
agency said.  “Demand has softened, and remains uncertain looking
forward,” Maria van der Hoeven, the agency’s executive
director, said in a presentation of the report. “Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development countries suffer from
persistent debt concerns, notably in the  euro zone , and there
are signs that even  China  is slowing.”  The IEA represents some of the world’s largest oil-
consumers, including the U.S.,  Germany  and  Japan . The agency
coordinated the release of 60 million barrels of oil in June
last year to offset lost supplies from  Libya  during an armed
uprising that boosted prices. That was the third use of
emergency reserves in the agency’s history.  Robust Supply  Supply growth will rise by a “robust” 9.3 million barrels
a day over the next five years, the agency said. North America’s
oil sands and light-tight crude will account for 40 percent of
the gain, while Iraq will make up 20 percent.  The IEA cut its consumption forecast by 500,000 barrels a
day from its previous five-year estimate in December. The agency
also published its monthly oil market report today, keeping its
2013 forecast for oil demand growth stable. It said OPEC output
fell to an eight-month low last month as sanctions hit Iranian
exports more than expected.  “This mild outlook is partly deceptive, given exceptional
uncertainty about the global economy and heightened regional
geopolitical risks,” said the IEA, whose members comprise 28
industrialized nations.  Oil prices  may not decline much, even as supplies from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries increase, because
of the risk of supply disruptions from political turmoil,
unplanned maintenance or extreme weather, the agency said.  Brent
crude  climbed 7 percent this year and traded today at about
$114.50 a barrel on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London.  High Risk  “Whereas in the past, more comfortable OPEC spare capacity
would normally have been associated with a downturn in price, a
higher risk environment may allow elevated prices and relatively
high spare capacity to coexist,” the IEA said.  OPEC’s spare production capacity is projected to rise to
“more comfortable levels” of as much as 7 million barrels a
day in 2017 from 2.8 million last year, the agency said.  The IEA based its price assumptions on the futures curve,
which suggests crude will gradually ease through 2017 while
remaining historically high.  Refiners are expected to add 7 million barrels a day of
crude distillation capacity in the next five years, outpacing
demand growth. The expansions will cause utilization rates to
fall to 79 percent in 2017 from an average of 83 percent from
2006 to 2008.  “The main loser in the expansion of global refining
capacity will be the OECD, especially Europe,” where more
plants will probably close before 2017, the IEA said.  Shifting production trends across the globe are redrawing
the oil map, which will “deeply affect trade flows,” the
agency said.  Once a large importer,  North America  moves closer to self-
sufficiency over the five-year period, while  Russia  and the
Middle East will likely export less fuel to Europe, turning
shipments instead to refineries in their home markets as well as
to developing nations in  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  