-- Mills in India Should Link Cane Price to Returns, Panel Says
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-10-12T08:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/mills-in-india-should-link-cane-price-to-returns-panel-says-2-.html
Sugar mills in  India , the world’s
biggest producer after  Brazil , should link the cane price paid
to farmers to returns from the sale of sweetener, molasses and
fuels to sustain output, a government panel said.  Mills should pay 70 percent of all revenues to farmers, the
panel headed by C. Rangarajan, chairman of the prime minister’s
economic advisory council, told reporters in New Delhi today.
The government must end controls on mills’ sale of sugar in the
domestic market and stop buying the commodity from producers at
below market prices to supply to the poor, it said. The
government has given no time frame for the changes.  Linking the cane price to  revenues  in India, the world’s
largest consumer, may help stabilize production and make the
nation a regular exporter. The government overhauled economic
policies in September to lure more foreign investment, limit its
budget deficit and steady the nation’s currency. Mills will add
about 30 billion rupees ($570 million) to their net income
annually should the government stop buying the commodity at
subsidized rates, said Abinash Verma, director general of Indian
Sugar Mills Association.  “By linking the sugar cane price with the price of sugar
and other byproducts mills will be able to get a fair return and
the farmers will get a fair return,” Verma said. “This will
control the cyclicality in production of sugar cane.”  Exports, Imports  The panel was set up in January to examine issues related
to the industry, including ending state controls. The federal
government sets quarterly limits on sales by each mill to cap
prices, while state administrations fix cane rates to help
farmers, a powerful voting bloc. Producers must sell 10 percent
of their output typically at below market rates to the
government for resale to the poor.  Outright bans and quantitative curbs on  exports  and imports
of sugar should be avoided, while imposing a tax of 5 percent to
10 percent on inbound and outbound shipments, Rangarajan said.  “Such a trade policy will be neutral to consumers as well
as producers, and low rates of duty will ensure that no one is
unduly favored with high protective walls of import or export
duties,” the panel said in its report. “It will promote
efficiency in production and consumers will also pay a
reasonable price in line with global prices.”  The recommendations will now be studied by the federal and
state governments, Food Secretary Sudhir Kumar told reporters.
The changes will be implemented soon, he said.  The changes to sugarcane pricing and scrapping of rules on
exports and imports need to be introduced over a two-to-three
year period, while the so-called levy sugar mechanism and
controls on open market sale should be removed immediately, the
panel said.  India’s biggest mill, led a rally among producers in Mumbai
trading. Bajaj advanced as much as 3.3 percent to 33.35 rupees,
 Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. (BRCM) , the second-largest producer, climbed
as much as 4.9 percent to 72.20 rupees and  Shree Renuka Sugars
Ltd. (SHRS) , the largest refiner, surged as much as 3.3 percent to
37.90 rupees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  