-- IMF Warns of External Imbalances in Middle East Oil Importers
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-10-12T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/imf-warns-of-external-imbalances-in-middle-east-oil-importers.html
Oil-importing countries in the
 Middle East  are experiencing heightened risks as their budgets
and external balances deteriorate, the  International Monetary
Fund  said.  Countries such as Egypt, which are dependent on fuel
imports, are struggling to recover after the crisis in  Europe 
sapped export markets, energy prices rise, and the government
spends to meet social demands stimulated by last year’s unrest,
the fund said in a report today.  It forecast growth of 2.1 percent in the oil-importing
group of countries this year, rising to 3.3 percent next year,
and warned that the rate may slip below that if the global
environment continues to deteriorate. The IMF predicted an
expansion of 2 percent in Egypt this year, accelerating to 3
percent next year -- still only about half the average rate in
the five years before the 2011 uprising.  Current-account imbalances pose challenges as capital
inflows weaken and declines in official international reserves
make countries vulnerable to external shocks, the IMF said.  “Large adverse terms-of-trade shocks arising from high and
rising food and fuel prices in recent years call for greater
exchange rate flexibility to restore and maintain
competitiveness,” the IMF says.  The fund is currently negotiating with  Egypt , which has
requested a $4.8 billion loan after  reserves  plunged. Egyptian
officials insist they won’t devalue the currency as part of an
agreement.  The IMF lists Afghanistan, Djibouti, Egypt, Jordan,
Lebanon, Mauritania, Morocco, Pakistan, Sudan, Syria and  Tunisia 
as oil-importing countries in the region.  For the region’s oil exporters, the IMF predicted growth of
6.6 percent this year, slowing to 3.8 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  