-- IMF Urges Latin America to Maintain Fiscal Rigor as Growth Cools
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-10-12T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/imf-urges-latin-america-to-maintain-fiscal-rigor-as-growth-cools.html
Latin American and Caribbean nations
should resist the urge to use fiscal policy to stimulate their
economies even as the region’s growth outlook weakens, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  Governments should only consider such actions in the event
of a sharp downturn, the IMF said in a regional economic outlook
update published today.  “Looking forward, fiscal consolidation should continue as
public debt levels remain above pre-crisis levels in most
countries,” the fund said. “Authorities should avoid the
temptation of easing fiscal policy too early; this should be
considered only if large downside risks materialize.”  Spending restraint will also help fight exchange-rate
appreciation, the report said. The Chilean peso has strengthened
9.8 percent against the  U.S. dollar  this year, the biggest gain
after the Hungarian Forint among more than 150 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Mexican and Colombian pesos are also
among the top five currency gainers this year.  Growth in the region has slowed because of weaker global
demand and the bigger-than-expected impact of monetary policy
tightening, the report said. Central banks including  Brazil ’s,
Colombia’s and  Chile ’s raised interest rates in the first half
of 2011 to curb inflationary pressure.  In Brazil, the region’s largest economy, President  Dilma
Rousseff ’s government has boosted spending and cut taxes to try
to revive the economy, which analysts surveyed by the central
bank forecast will grow 1.57 percent this year, down from 2.7
percent in 2011. The country’s budget surplus before interest
payments in August was the smallest for the month since 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Tokyo at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  