-- India Factory Output Beats Estimates as Outlook Stays Cloudy
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-10-12T07:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/india-factory-output-beats-estimates-as-outlook-stays-cloudy-1-.html
Indian industrial production rose
more than estimated in August, climbing for the first time in
three months ahead of a policy revamp to revive the economy.  Output at factories, utilities and mines rose 2.7 percent
from a year earlier after a revised 0.2 percent fall in July,
the Central Statistical Office said in a statement in New Delhi
today. The median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 1.1 percent gain.  Indian factory production has been subdued for most of this
year as  Europe ’s debt crisis saps exports and elevated inflation
curbs scope for interest-rate cuts to bolster spending at home.
The government overhauled policies in September to lure more
foreign investment, limit its budget deficit and steady the
nation’s currency.  “Economic activity is still weak and below trend,” said
 Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG
in  Singapore . “I don’t think we should get too carried away with
all this. But it is the strongest evidence to date that recovery
is underway in India and March quarter was the bottom.”  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government began the policy
changes on Sept. 13 by announcing a rise in diesel prices to
curb expenditure on fuel subsidies, before opening industries
from retail to aviation to more investment from abroad. The
cabinet this month decided to seek parliamentary approval for
more overseas participation in the insurance and pension
businesses.  Rupee Surge  The rupee has strengthened about 5 percent against the
dollar since the overhaul, paring its loss in the past year to 7
percent. The currency was little changed at 52.64 per dollar as
of 12:28 p.m. in Mumbai, while the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of
stocks fell 0.4 percent. The yield on the 10-year bonds due June
2022 climbed to 8.17 percent from 8.16 percent yesterday.  Gross domestic product in Asia’s third-largest economy may
rise 4.9 percent in 2012, the weakest pace in a decade, the
International Monetary Fund said this week. The country’s trade
deficit widened to $18.1 billion last month as exports dropped
10.8 percent from a year earlier.  Standard & Poor’s reiterated two days ago that the nation
could lose its investment-grade credit rating within the next 24
months if growth slows further and political opposition to
policy overhauls increases.  S&P predicted a budget  shortfall  of about 6 percent of
gross domestic product in the financial year through March 2013,
compared with the government’s target of 5.1 percent.  Reform Outlook  “Twenty-four months is a long time,” Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said in  Tokyo  yesterday, where he is
attending the IMF annual meeting. “You will see a lot of reform,
a lot of change, a lot of strengthening of the Indian economy.”  Manufacturing rose 2.9 percent in August from a year
earlier after a fall in the previous month, while consumer-goods
output advanced 5 percent, today’s data showed. Mining climbed 2
percent and electricity output climbed 1.9 percent.  The Reserve Bank of India, which has left  interest rates 
unchanged for the past three meetings since a cut in April, has
previously signaled that narrowing the budget gap would increase
scope for reductions in borrowing costs.  Headline inflation, as measured by the wholesale-price
index, accelerated to a nine-month high of 7.7 percent in
September, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey ahead of a report due Oct. 15. The central bank has said
the comfort level for price increases may be about 5 percent.  Consumer prices rose 9.73 percent in September from a year
earlier, another report showed today. That’s the slowest pace in
six months.  The Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers predicts
full-year domestic car sales growth of as little as 1 percent.
Slower economic expansion, inflation and the cost of borrowing
has damped demand for vehicles from companies such as Maruti
Suzuki  India  Ltd., the nation’s biggest carmaker by volume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  