-- Indian Stocks Decline as Infosys Results Outweigh Output Data
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-10-12T10:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/indian-stocks-decline-as-infosys-results-outweigh-output-data.html
Indian stocks declined, heading for
the first weekly retreat in six, as a cut in profit margin and
sales outlook by  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  outweighed better-than-estimated
factory production data.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, slid 0.8 percent
to 18,658.01, according to preliminary closing prices at 3:30
p.m. in Mumbai. The gauge dropped 1.5 percent drop this week,
ending a five-week rally. Infosys, the second-largest software
exporter, slumped as much as 8.8 percent.  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  declined
2.3 percent.  Industrial production rebounded, rising 2.7 percent in
August from a year earlier, government data showed today. The
median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 1.1
percent gain. Infosys flagged off the second-quarter earnings
season today. Twenty one of the 30 Sensex companies will report
profits increased from a year earlier, according to Bloomberg
surveys. Infosys has a 7.4 percent weighting on the Sensex.  “While Infosys’ ability to set the trend for the earnings
season is coming down, the stock has a high weighting on the
index,” Avinash Gupta, an independent market analyst, said by
phone from  New Delhi  today. “Given the rally over the past few
weeks, some investors are likely to take money off the table.”  The Sensex has surged 21 percent this year as foreigners
bought a net $17.7 billion of local stocks, the most among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding China. The gauge
trades at 14.9 times  estimated earnings , compared with the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) ’s multiple of 11.4 times.  Overseas investors were net buyers of Indian equities for a
13th straight day on Oct. 10, data from the market regulator
showed yesterday. India equity funds attracted $157 million in
the week through Oct. 10, the most in Asia, Citigroup analysts
led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report today, citing data from
EPFR Global.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  