-- India Government Seeks Lower Rates as More Overhauls Planned
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m ,   A i k a   N a n a o ,   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-10-15T09:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/india-s-chidambaram-calls-for-lower-interest-rates-amid-reforms.html
India ’s finance officials are
seeking lower  interest rates  from the central bank to revive
growth as the  government  plans adding to its overhaul of
economic policies.  Inflation may slow to within the  Reserve Bank  of India’s
comfort level by March as the rupee rises and the fiscal gap
shrinks, Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram said in an
interview yesterday. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
said two days earlier he plans reform measures for  capital
markets , insurance, banking and infrastructure within weeks.  “We hope that the RBI will be more benevolent with its
 policy ” if it’s convinced the government is taking credible
steps to lower the fiscal deficit and contain  inflation , Mayaram
said in  Tokyo , where he participated in annual meetings of the
International Monetary Fund along with Chidambaram. “They
should give” some signals before March, he said.  Indian policy makers are trying to bring growth back from
near the lowest in three years, with the  International Monetary
Fund  saying last week the outlook for  Asia ’s third-largest
economy is unusually uncertain. The government has revamped
economic policy since Chidambaram, 67, became finance minister
on July 31, opening up to more investment from abroad and
raising subsidized diesel prices to tackle a  budget deficit .  The push snapped months of gridlock over how to revive the
economy, helping the rupee rebound from a record low.  Rupee Outlook  Mayaram said he expects the rupee to strengthen to 50 to 51
per dollar in a couple of months, compared with 52.82 last week.
It has surged more than 4 percent against the dollar in the past
three months, buoyed by the biggest opening of the economy to
overseas companies in a decade.  “I think the rupee must appreciate a little more,”
Chidambaram said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Tokyo on
Oct. 12. “It has appreciated about 5 or 6 percent in the last
few weeks, but I think the rupee must find a reasonable level,
its true level.”  Inflation accelerated to a 10-month high in September after
an increase in diesel prices. The wholesale-price  index  rose
7.81 percent from a year earlier, after climbing 7.55 percent in
August, the Commerce Ministry said in a statement today.  The pace of Indian price increases is the fastest in major
 emerging markets  and above the central bank’s comfort level of
about 5 percent. Inflation hasn’t been tamed yet and supply
constraints are adding to price pressures, Chidambaram said.  A further advance in the rupee will help to curb the
increase in costs, he said. The central bank can’t be expected
to bear the burden of containing inflation by itself, the
finance minister said.  ‘Tame Inflation’  “When fiscal policy and monetary policy act in tandem and
supply improves and the rupee appreciates a little more, I think
we will be able to tame inflation,” Chidambaram said. Inflation
may slow to 5 percent to 5.5 percent by March, Mayaram said.  “The crucial link as the finance minister mentioned is
that inflation should come down and that is not happening,”
said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, an economist at ICICI
Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. in Mumbai. “They will not
touch the repo rate but will ensure comfortable liquidity so
that banks have an incentive to expand credit.”  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left the benchmark  repurchase
rate  unchanged at 8 percent for a third meeting in September,
after cutting it from 8.5 percent in April. The Reserve Bank has
signaled that curbing the fiscal deficit may boost scope to join
emerging nations from  South Korea  to  Brazil  in extending rate
cuts this year.  Budget Gap  India’s  budget deficit  is the widest among major emerging
nations as slower growth hurts tax receipts and subsidies fan
spending, imperiling the government’s goal of narrowing the gap
to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months
through March 2013, from 5.8 percent the previous fiscal year.  The budget gap may be about 5.2 percent to 5.3 percent this
fiscal year, missing the 5.1 percent target, Mayaram said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government announced the
first increase in diesel prices in more than a year on Sept. 13,
after Chidambaram pledged to contain a fiscal shortfall that has
put the nation’s investment-grade credit rating in jeopardy.  The administration opened industries including retail and
aviation to more foreign investment the next day, and this month
decided to seek parliamentary approval for more overseas
participation in the insurance and pension businesses.  The burst of changes, which snapped months of political
gridlock over how to rejuvenate the economy, cost the ruling
Congress-party led coalition its majority in both houses of
parliament after a key ally withdrew support.  IMF Forecast  Singh is gambling that the long-delayed opening measures
will revive growth in time to salvage Congress’s fortunes before
a general election due by May 2014. The IMF forecasts India’s
gross domestic product to rise 4.9 percent in 2012, the least in
a decade.  Chidambaram said he’s “absolutely certain” that India’s
credit-rating won’t be downgraded, and added that the budget for
the year through March 2014 would be neither populist nor
austere.  “We must have a budget that emphasizes fiscal
consolidation and incentivizes savings, promotes investment and
cuts out wasteful expenditure,” he said. He also said that key
social welfare programs will be fully protected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Aika Nanao in Tokyo at 
 ananao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  