-- Tiniest Deficit as Growth Stalls Gives Bonds Push
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-10-12T07:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/tiniest-deficit-as-growth-stalls-gives-bonds-push-turkey-credit.html
Slumping  growth  dragged down by
weaker demand at home helped drive Turkey’s  current-account
deficit  to the lowest in three years, helping bondholders while
giving policy makers more reasons to cut interest rates.  Yields on benchmark  two-year notes  fell five basis points
to 7.59 percent yesterday, extending the biggest drop in major
 emerging markets  this year, after the central bank said the
deficit fell for the 10th straight month to $1.2 billion in
August. Turkey’s local-currency  bonds  have returned 13 percent
this year compared with 9 percent for  Russia , according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  The current-account gap, which shrank more than all seven
economists’ estimates in a Bloomberg survey, may put more
pressure on central bank Governor Erdem Basci to reduce
borrowing costs. It followed a statistics office report two days
earlier that showed industrial output fell in August and the
government said it would miss its year-end growth target of 4
percent.  “The current-account figures now will reinforce a growth-
focused monetary policy,” Ali Cakiroglu, an investment
strategist at HSBC Asset Management in Istanbul, said in e-
mailed comments yesterday. “We expect cuts of at least 50 basis
points to the upper end of the rate corridor next week.”  Domestic Demand  The narrowing deficit reflects Basci’s efforts to temper
domestic demand with a dual-rates policy. He reduced average
bank borrowing costs to 5.75 percent on Oct. 4, the floor of his
interest-rate corridor and the lowest level in 11 months, after
he cut the upper end of the rate band by 150 basis points to 10
percent last month to foster economic expansion. The balance of
payments data for August showed imports dropped the most since
January, falling by almost $2 billion to $18 billion.  The  effective rate of funding  to banks has dropped 236
basis points, or 2.36 percentage points, in the past two months.
The decrease hasn’t been matched in lending rates, with the cost
of  consumer loans  falling 130 basis points to 16.5 percent in
the period.  Business loan costs  dropped 120 basis points to 13.3
percent, according to a Bloomberg index tracking Turkish credit.  Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan, backed by Prime Minister
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has called for cheaper borrowing to
stimulate the economy, with Caglayan saying Basci has kept rates
too high for too long.  Business Loans  “It’s impossible for a small business to take out a loan
at the current rates, run a business and pay it back,” Caglayan
was quoted by the state-run Anatolia news agency as saying
yesterday at a conference in Ankara. “There are no profits that
high.”  The improved current-account deficit will “add to the
justification for a limited 50 basis-point cut” at the top end
of the corridor as Basci tries to coax banks into lending more,
Ibrahim Aksoy, an economist at Seker Securities in Istanbul,
said in an e-mailed report yesterday.  Brokerages BGC Partners and Oyak Securities both cut their
estimates for the year-end current-account deficit to $60
billion in the past month, which would be a decrease of about 22
percent from last year’s record high of $77.1 billion as
 Turkey ’s China-like expansion was also driving a record jump in
loans and imports.  “Is it sustainable?” Margarete Strasser, a fund manager
at Pioneer Investments in Vienna, said by e-mail yesterday.
“The current-account deficit is shrinking but still very high,
and when global markets get more risk-averse again, Turkey is
one of the countries with high vulnerability.”  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swaps on Turkey were unchanged 155
today. That compares with 144 basis points for Russian swaps,
113 for Brazil’s and 143 for  Israel ’s. The contracts pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
cash equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to
its debt agreements. Rising prices show deteriorating
perceptions of a borrower’s creditworthiness.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to
216 today, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  The lira depreciated less than 0.1 percent to 1.8074 per
dollar at 9:50 a.m. in Istanbul, taking its gain this year to
4.6 percent. The two basis-point drop in two-year bond yields to
7.57 percent today extended their decline this year to 344 basis
points.  The yield on Turkey’s two-year local currency notes dropped
to 44 basis points lower than two-year Brazilian debt today.
That compares with May 18, when the yield on Turkish debt was
171 basis points higher than  Brazil ’s. Brazil and Turkey offer
investors the highest yields on their two-year debt among 18
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg.  The current-account “is a positive surprise,” Jens Thellesen, who helps manage $1.5 billion at  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK)  in
Silkeborg,  Denmark , said in e-mailed comments about the deficit
yesterday. “The central bank will probably be more dovish,
which should be positive for bondholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  