-- Iran Budget Gap Set to Widen as Sanctions Hurt Oil Exports
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-10-12T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/iran-budget-gap-set-to-widen-as-sanctions-hurt-oil-exports.html
Iran ’s budget deficit may widen the
most since at least 2007, according to the  International
Monetary Fund , as sanctions by the U.S. and its allies curb the
nation’s oil exports.  Iran’s budget gap may swell for a second year to 2.9
percent of gross domestic product, and widen further to 3.9
percent in 2013, IMF forecasts released today show. The economy
will contract 0.9 percent in 2012 compared with 2 percent growth
in the previous year, the fund said.  The U.S. and European Union are starving Iran of foreign
currency by blocking sales of oil, its main export, and other
transactions in dollars and euros. Israel has threatened to
attack to stop  Iran’s nuclear program  if the sanctions don’t
succeed in curbing it. Iranian leaders say they won’t bow to the
pressure, even as the country’s crude  output  plunges to the
lowest in more than two decades.  “Iran’s economic situation is bleak,” Anoush Ehteshami,
professor of international affairs at the U.K.’s Durham
University, said on Oct. 11. “They’re suffering from a
shortfall in oil income, from an inability to trade freely,
which means that any transaction has a premium, large or small.
They’re suffering from a lack of foreign investment, and the
banking sector has been so badly affected that it can’t
facilitate economic activity.”  “And finally, there’s the currency crisis,” Ehteshami
said. The rial has slumped as much as 40 percent against the
dollar since August.  The IMF forecasts annual inflation to accelerate to 25.2
percent this year from 21.5 percent in 2011. Protests against
the rising cost of living broke out in Tehran’s markets last
week and police used tear gas to disperse them.  Iran’s current account surplus will decline to 3.4 percent
of GDP from 12.5 percent in 2011, the IMF forecasts. The
Economist Intelligence Unit estimates Iran’s foreign reserves
will drop to $70 billion this year from $80 billion in 2011 as
sanctions reduce oil exports. Ahmadinejad said in January that
the country has $90 billion in reserves earned from crude sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  