-- Mali Islamists Targeted as Hollande Pushes Intervention
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x ,   R o s e   S k e l t o n   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-10-12T19:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/islamist-groups-in-mali-targeted-as-hollande-pushes-intervention.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
is using his first official trip to  Africa  to bolster his drive
for military action against Islamist groups in northern  Mali 
that are threatening to expand throughout the region.  The Mali crisis dominated Hollande’s talks today in Dakar
with President Macky Sall of  Senegal , a neighboring secular
nation with a majority Muslim population. Tomorrow he’s
attending a summit of French-speaking African nations in the
Democratic Republic of Congo.  “What’s happening in the Sahel since some months, like in
Mali with organized terrorism, isn’t just a threat for West
Africa, or Mali, it’s a major question for the security of the
African continent and for  Europe ,” Hollande told reporters at a
press conference with Sall at the presidential palace.  France  has been an outspoken supporter of the use of force
against Islamist rebels controlling the arid north of its former
colony and drafted a  United Nations  Security Council resolution
supporting an international force to help oust Islamist
militants in Mali.  The Security Council today passed a draft resolution paving
the way for military intervention in Mali. The 15-member body
voted unanimously to provide military and security planners to
help Mali’s transitional government and its partners put
together a force. It set a 45-day deadline for a detailed plan
for the UN decision-making body to approve.  ‘Africans Decide’  The Economic Community for West African States has called
for UN backing for a regional military contingent. Ivory Coast
and Senegal have pledged to contribute troops.  “For the intervention, it’s for Africans to decide,”
Hollande said. “We, France, will support with logistical help
and materials, according to the UNSC mandate, but it will be
Africans who put in place the operation.”  Islamist groups, some linked to al-Qaeda, seized control of
northern Mali and the historic city of Timbuktu after brushing
aside Touareg insurgents who had declared secession after a
March coup against President Amadou Toumani Toure in Bamako, the
capital. The Islamists armed themselves with weapons taken from
 Libya  following the overthrow of leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  “There is a wide, general recognition that, despite all
the risks and problems, force may be the only way to tackle the
most hardline jihadist elements,” Paul Melly, associate fellow
of the Africa program at London-based  Chatham House , said in a
phone interview. “France hopes that the threat of force will
persuade large sections of the rebels to negotiate.”  Drug Money  The Islamist groups are using drug money and intimidation
to force local residents to adhere to their strict
interpretation of Islam, the UN assistant secretary-general for
human rights, Ivan Simonovic, told reporters on Oct. 10 in  New
York . Mali has become a transit route for drug traffickers from
 Latin America  to Europe, according to the UN.  “They have tremendous resources to buy loyalty because
they are now having kickbacks from narco-traffickers in the
region,” Simonovic said. The Islamist groups are paying
families $600 for their children to enlist as fighters and $400
a month after that in a country where half the population lives
on less than $1.25 a day, he said.  In a bid to impose Sharia law, fighters have carried out
floggings, amputations and public executions,  Corinne Dufka ,
senior Africa researcher at New York-based Human Rights Watch,
said in a phone interview.  Islamist Control  Northern Mali is controlled by at least three groups of
Islamists, including Ansar ud-Din and al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Mahgreb, which is holding six French hostages.  Neighboring Senegal, Niger, Burkina Faso and Ivory Coast
want to oust Islamist groups before they take root and use Mali
as a hub to push their influence across borders, former U.S.
Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Chester Crocker
said in an phone interview.  In  Nigeria , sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest economy,
the Islamist Boko Haram group has carried out a wave of gun and
bomb attacks in the north and the capital, Abuja, in the past
three years in its campaign to establish Sharia law.  About a third of the 1.5 million people in northern Mali
have fled their homes. The UN says there are 100,000 refugees in
 Mauritania , 100,000 in  Burkina Faso , 30,000 in  Algeria  and about
40,000 in Niger. Another 230,000 are estimated to be internally
displaced.  Regional Problem  “The stakes are very high,” Dufka said. “The regional
nature of the problem -- both in terms of the foreign element of
the Islamists and the number of countries the crisis touches --
necessitates a carefully crafted plan which takes into account
not only the security and rights of Malians, but also the
governance issues which gave rise to the crisis.”  The crisis has had a negative impact on the economy of
other West African countries. In June, the  Central Bank  of West
African States lowered its key lending rates as the conflict in
Mali cut an economic growth forecast for this year to 5.3
percent from 6.4 percent.  The $10.6 billion economy in Mali, Africa’s biggest cotton
producer, is expected to contract between 3 and 4 percent this
year as a result of the turmoil, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  It’s taken months to formulate a response because leaders
in Mali have been vying for positions of influence rather than
focusing on a clear political and military strategy, according
to the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  Combat Troops  While Mali’s interim administration last month formally
requested help from Ecowas, it said it didn’t want combat troops
in Bamako.  “Confusion reigns,” ICG said in a report Sept. 24 that
urged the UN to take the lead in brokering a solution.  Ecowas will need combat aircraft to be effective, which
would require U.S. and French support, according to a UN
Security Council official speaking on condition of anonymity. So
far, France is the only western nation that has pledged
logistical and technical assistance.  “Ecowas has limited financial and technical resources, and
the backing of the United Nations and western countries is
indispensable,” Jean-Baptiste Bouzard, a political analyst with
Bath, U.K.-based risk-advisory firm,  Maplecroft , said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “The U.S. army could use aerial
bases in neighboring countries to launch drone attacks” on
Islamist hideouts in Mali, he said.  Targeted Action  Without immediately trying to reconquer the north, targeted
military action may persuade the rebels to negotiate, according
to the Security Council official.  During the Oct. 12-14 summit of French-speaking nations in
Kinshasa, capital of the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, Hollande
will stress the need for a shared commitment to human rights,
democracy and economic development, according to French
officials. He will also hold discussions on the crisis in Mali,
they said.  “Cohesive and concerted action by the international
community will be crucial to overcoming the crisis and limiting
the regional contamination,” Roddy Barclay, an analyst at
London-based Control Risks, said in a phone interview. “The
solution will require both political dialogue and reform
pledges, and military action to displace the hardliners from
strongholds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Rose Skelton in Dakar  at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  