-- Issa Presses Defense Companies on Budget Layoff Notices
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-10-12T17:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/issa-presses-defense-companies-on-budget-layoff-notices.html
The Republican chairman of a House
panel asked defense contractors if they discussed with the Obama
administration whether to issue layoff notices to workers days
before the Nov. 6 election because of pending defense-spending
cuts.  House Oversight  and Government Reform Committee Chairman
 Darrell Issa  sent letters to executives of  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and seven other
defense companies.  At issue is a directive from the White House Office of
Management and Budget on Sept. 28 that said contractors
shouldn’t issue 60-day layoff notices that Lockheed and other
defense companies had said they were considering for thousands
of workers. The budget office said the federal government will
absorb the costs if $109 billion in defense and domestic cuts
take effect in January and companies are held liable for not
giving sufficient notice of worker dismissals under a federal
law.  “The guidance seems intended to invite federal contractors
to flout the law, and in so doing places a large contingent
financial liability on the shoulders of American taxpayers in
order to indemnify those contractors who follow the
administration’s direction,” Issa of  California  wrote in the
letters dated Oct. 11 and released today.  Issa asked the companies to disclose whether White House or
agency officials contacted them about their compliance with the
law, and also to divulge any legal advice they received from
lawyers about whether to send the 60-day notices under the
Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act.  Lockheed’s About-Face  Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, on Oct. 1
dropped plans to issue notices “after careful review” of
guidance issued by the budget office and the Defense Department.
Defense contractors led by Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed had
said they might be compelled to warn thousands of workers their
jobs could disappear unless President  Barack Obama  and Congress
acted before January to avert the spending cuts.  The automatic cuts, known as sequestration, will slice $1.2
trillion over a decade from planned spending, including more
than $500 billion from defense. The cuts stem from last year’s
clash over raising the debt limit, and were set in motion after
Congress and Obama failed to agree on a broad debt-reduction
package.  The federal WARN Act, which became law in 1988, requires
most employers with 100 or more workers to give 60 days’ notice
of plant closings or “mass layoffs” -- labor cutbacks
affecting 500 or more workers, or at least 33 percent of the
workforce for companies with fewer than 500 employees.  Nothing Immediate  The Labor Department said in July that blanket layoff
notices would be “inappropriate” for sequestration given the
uncertainty of the spending cuts and how they would affect
federal contracts.  Richard Ginman, the Defense Department’s director of
defense procurement and acquisition policy, wrote an industry
group on Sept. 28, saying that no immediate moves affecting
defense contractors are probable if the cuts take effect in
January.  “Any action to adjust funding levels would likely
occur, if it occurred at all, several months after
sequestration,” he said.  Republicans in Congress say the defense cuts should be
reversed, while Democrats say added  tax revenue  should be part
of any compromise to avert the spending cuts and tax increases
known as the fiscal cliff. Republicans, including House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor , also have expressed anger over the
administration’s promise of a taxpayer-subsidized shield against
liability in the event companies are sued for not complying with
the WARN Act.  Lockheed once before clashed with the Pentagon over WARN
Act notices, a dispute that helped shape the company’s earlier
contention it would send blanket notices to many of its workers.
Pentagon auditors said Lockheed waited too long before informing
workers in 2009 that they might lose their jobs after the
Defense Department scrapped plans for a new fleet of
presidential helicopters. The auditors declined to reimburse
$29.4 million in worker expenses the company claimed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  