-- Ivy Leaders Thank One Man For Inspiring Women Presidents
-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z
-- 2012-10-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/ivy-leaders-thank-one-man-for-inspiring-women-presidents.html
Princeton University President
Shirley Tilghman said she worried she wasn’t qualified 11 years
ago when the search committee urged her to apply for the post. A
renowned molecular biologist, Tilghman sought the advice of then
Princeton President Harold T. Shapiro, who was retiring.  She talked about how she’d never been a dean or a provost
and lacked administrative experience. He told her, “university
presidents aren’t hired for that, they’re hired for their vision
and judgment.”  Then he asked what salary was being discussed. When he
heard the figure, he said: “That isn’t enough. I told her, ‘It
isn’t going to help you to be the lowest-paid president in the
Ivies.’”  Tilghman got the job, after heeding Shapiro and negotiating
a higher salary, and so have two other female Ivy League
presidents he’s mentored:  Amy Gutmann , president of the
University of Pennsylvania and  Ruth Simmons , the former
president of  Brown University  who stepped down in July. Shapiro
has also mentored Nancy Cantor, chancellor and president of
 Syracuse University , and S. Georgia Nugent, president of  Kenyon
College .  While just 4 percent of chief executive officers at Fortune
500 companies are women, half of the presidents of the eight Ivy
League schools are, as well as 26 percent of the leaders at U.S.
colleges and universities. Several of the most prominent credit
Shapiro for their ascent.  ‘No Boys’ Club’  “There’s no boy’s club with Harold,” said Gutmann. “He
elevated so many women because he just gets it. If you could get
things done, you were on the team.”  For more than two decades, as president of Princeton and
before that the  University of Michigan , Shapiro identified
talented women and gave them high-visibility assignments that
helped propel them to the top. He encouraged women who didn’t
think they were accomplished enough to advance or ask for
equitable pay to get what they deserved.  That’s precisely the backing female corporate managers say
they aren’t offered enough. A recent Catalyst Inc. study of
managers at 20 large companies found that women are much less
likely than men to be sponsored by male executives for jobs that
lead to the CEO’s office.  “Influential, highly placed sponsors can supercharge a
woman’s or a man’s career, providing access to assignments that
help propel a protege to the top of the list of promotions,”
said Ilene Lang, president and CEO of Catalyst, a New York-based
nonprofit that focuses on expanding opportunities for women in
business.  Smart Management  Shapiro, 77, has taught and written about economics,
bioethics and higher education and is chairman of  DeVry Inc. (DV)  and
a former director of  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and HCA Healthcare Co. He
said giving women chances isn’t just fair, it’s smart
management.  “I did it to help me,” he said in an interview in his
office at Princeton, where he still teaches. If you overlook
women, whether you’re running a university or a corporation,
“you’re overlooking half the available talent, and then you
don’t get the best people to help you do your job.”  Instead of leapfrogging a few women into top positions,
Shapiro gave many women assignments that broadened their skills
and positioned them to advance. While, overall, the strategy has
succeeded, it didn’t work all the time, Shapiro said.  “You never want to put someone in a job they’re not
qualified for because then everyone loses, but you also can’t
know how things will turn out until you try,” he said, adding
that he took the same approach with men.  Meeting Rockefeller  Gutmann, the current president of the  University of
Pennsylvania , was a Princeton professor of political science
when in 1990 Shapiro asked her to head a new Center for Human
Values, which Laurance S. Rockefeller, a Princeton alumnus, had
expressed interest in funding. When the initial proposal session
took place, Shapiro didn’t attend.  “Rockefeller had to trust her if he was going to go
forward, since she’d be the one in charge,” Shapiro said.
Gutmann was “an important faculty member and an expert in
ethics, but I had no evidence she could build a center,” he
said. As it turned out, “all I had to do was step back and let
her do her thing.”  Rockefeller pledged about $20 million after meeting
Gutmann. The assignment led to her subsequent promotion to dean
of faculty and then provost under Tilghman.  ‘Different Turn’  “If not for Harold’s confidence in me, I wouldn’t have
ever been on the 56th floor of Rockefeller Center with Laurance Rockefeller, and my life might have taken a different turn,”
said Gutmann. “You need opportunity to have good luck, and
Harold gave me that opportunity.” Rockefeller died in 2004.  S. Georgia Nugent was an associate professor of classics at
Brown who had never had an administrative job when Shapiro
convinced her to come to Princeton to become his special
assistant in 1992. Nugent was reluctant to leave teaching and
her scholarly work and said she agreed to meet Shapiro only
because she wanted to revisit Princeton, where she’d been in the
first coed undergraduate class.  “I said during the interview that if I was going to leave
teaching, I’d want to be a college president, and he looked at
me and said: ‘That could be possible.’”  She spent three years as Shapiro’s assistant -- writing
many of his speeches, overseeing the growing use of technology
by students and faculty and co-teaching with him. Shapiro then
promoted her to associate provost and subsequently dean of the
 McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning , jobs that put her on
the radar of colleges seeking a new president. Nugent became
Kenyon’s first female president in 2003.  Princeton Outsider  Shapiro was more of an outsider as Princeton’s president
than his predecessors, many of whom had been longtime Princeton
faculty. He was also the university’s first Jewish president,
and he’d spent five years, after graduating from  McGill
University , running his family’s restaurant, Ruby Foo’s, with
his twin brother Bernard. He decided an academic career suited
him more than business. After earning a Ph.D. in economics from
Princeton, he spent the next 24 years at the University of
Michigan as a professor, provost and then president from 1980
until 1988.  Shapiro’s biggest motivation was to make Princeton better
reflect the more global and diverse world, he said.  Not Enough  The Princeton campus he returned to in 1988 wasn’t the all-
male school he had attended as a graduate student. The  266-year-
old  Ivy League university began admitting female undergraduates
in 1969. By the time Shapiro took charge, about 40 percent of
undergraduates were female.  “That statistic didn’t impress me,” said Shapiro, who
thought Princeton wasn’t diverse enough.  “I wanted to get to 50 percent” female students, he said,
and increase the number of students from low-income families and
from overseas -- a goal he thought required changing Princeton’s
predominantly white male administration and faculty.  “I needed people who represented the students I wanted to
have here, who knew firsthand what it’s like to be a woman or an
African American,” he said.  When openings arose at Princeton for administrators or
deans and he was handed a list of candidates that didn’t include
women, he urged staff to “do more work and find some,” he
said. “I didn’t order anyone to do this, but I kept bringing it
up and pressing my point.”  Women Candidates  When Princeton needed a new head of  information technology 
and a vice president of facilities, Shapiro’s staff told him
there weren’t any women qualified for these jobs -- and wouldn’t
be for at least a decade. He said he didn’t believe them.  “I said, ‘just find one woman candidate for each job, the
best one you can find -- and you don’t have to hire her,’” he
said. The women his staff eventually found were more experienced
than the male candidates, and got the jobs.  The father of four daughters, who all have advanced degrees
and work in careers ranging from hospital administration to real
estate development and academia, Shapiro had a personal interest
in making Princeton more female friendly, he said. His wife
Vivian, whom Shapiro met as a teenager, is a Ph.D. in
psychology.  “My wife was a professional from the beginning, which was
unusual then,” he said. “She didn’t lecture me” about women,
“but when you have a wife with a career, that has an effect.”  The Ranks  As in corporations, college presidents typically move up
through the ranks, amassing experience by serving as deans and
provosts. Shapiro encouraged female faculty who weren’t on this
administrative track and whom he thought were strong leaders to
take on special projects to fill the gaps in their resumes.  Tilghman oversaw Princeton’s Council on Science and
Technology, which encouraged the teaching of science to non-
science majors and, with Shapiro’s backing, was founding
director of the school’s  Institute for Integrative Genomics . The
assignments gave her visibility with many professors on campus
and taught her how to fundraise and broker deals.  “Without that experience, I wouldn’t have been considered
for president,” said Tilghman, who announced earlier this month
that she’ll retire next year.  After she was named his successor and before taking charge,
Tilghman spent five weeks following Shapiro to every meeting and
campus event he attended to familiarize herself with the job.
Once she settled into the president’s office, Shapiro told
Tilghman he wouldn’t call her “but would be there in a
heartbeat if I needed him,” she said. “He never hovered or
second-guessed me.”  Lobbying Effort  Shapiro wasn’t always liked for all his decisions or
leadership style. He was considered remote by many students.  “Few of us had the chance to meet him -- let alone see
him” in between opening ceremonies and commencement, editors of
the  Daily Princetonian  wrote in an editorial after Shapiro
announced his retirement as president. “He left us the
potential for great change, but never directly shaped our
college experience.”  Shapiro lobbied for his female administrators and deans
when they were wooed elsewhere. Simmons was a Princeton
associate provost who had worked mostly in administration when
 Smith College  recruited her in 1995 to become the first African-
American female president of a major college. When Shapiro
received a call from a member of the search committee, asking
about her credentials, Shapiro talked about how Simmons had
helped build Princeton’s African-American studies department and
wooed  Nobel Prize -winning novelist Toni Morrison to campus as a
writing professor.  “Ruth was in a job which didn’t normally lead to a college
presidency but her very unusual talents were quite clear,” said
Shapiro. “I said if they wanted someone who could build a
community, she’s outstanding doing that.”  After leading Smith for six years, Simmons was recruited to
Brown where she was president for more than a decade.  “You can’t get possessive of people,” Shapiro said. “You
have a moral obligation, whether it’s a woman or a man, to
support their advance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in  New York  at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  