-- Japan and China Agree to Hold Talks on Rift After Noda Call
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-10-12T05:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/japan-and-china-agree-to-hold-talks-on-dispute-after-noda-call.html
Japan  and  China  agreed to talks
aimed at reducing tensions over a territorial dispute a day
after Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  warned that Asia’s
two biggest economies would suffer without negotiations.  Officials from both countries agreed to hold vice-
ministerial level discussions at an unspecified date, Japan’s
Foreign Ministry said last night. The dispute “will have a
number of mostly negative economic effects over the medium
term,” Moody’s Analytics said in a report today.  “It is important for Japan and China to take a broad view
and start by communicating with the aim of improving relations,
including at the planned vice-ministerial meeting, where I
expect a frank exchange of views,” Japanese Chief Cabinet
Secretary Osamu Fujimura told reporters today in Tokyo.  Japan’s purchase last month of uninhabited  East China Sea 
islands called Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese sparked
violent demonstrations in China and hurt Japanese exporters such
as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  Prolonging the worst bilateral crisis since
at least 2005 endangers trade ties that have tripled to more
than $340 billion in the last decade.  “These are the second and third-largest economies in the
world and our interdependence is deepening,” Noda said in an
Oct. 10 interview at his office in Tokyo. “If our ties cool,
particularly economic ones, then it isn’t a question of one or
the other country suffering. Both countries lose out.”  Stocks Impact  Japanese stocks today swung between gains and losses, after
the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  recorded the biggest three-day
slump since June on concern over the dispute. The Nikkei 225 was
down 0.1 percent at 1:42 p.m. in Tokyo after falling as much as
0.2 percent. The gauge has dropped 3.7 percent this week, headed
for a four-week decline.  China reduced its presence at the International Monetary
Fund’s annual meeting this week in Tokyo. While People’s Bank of
China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  canceled his appearance, his
deputy Yi Gang will give a lecture on Oct. 14 in his place, IMF
spokesman  William Murray  said today in an e-mailed statement.  The conflict caused Nissan and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to suffer
their worst month of Chinese sales since at least 2008 in
September. The IMF warned an escalation of the conflict could
hurt a global economy struggling to overcome the impact of the
 European debt crisis .  “We need talks through various channels to make sure there
is no effect on the broader relationship,” Noda said in his
interview. “There has been an effect on individual industries.
The overall effect will depend on the talks we have going
forward and the efforts we make.”  Energy Resources  The islands are surrounded by rich fishing grounds and
adjacent to natural gas resources. The East China Sea may hold
as much as 160 billion barrels of oil, the U.S. Energy
Information Administration said in a  report  citing Chinese
studies.  Also at stake for China are ties with its second-largest
provider of foreign direct investment. Japanese companies poured
in $5.1 billion in the first eight months of 2012, second only
to  Hong Kong , according to the Chinese Ministry of Commerce.  “Reports indicate that most Japanese investment already
committed to China will go ahead, but future investment may be
hurt by the conflict,” Sydney-based Moody’s analyst  Alaistair Chan  wrote in today’s report. “Japanese companies may
accelerate plans to diversity to Indonesia or India.”  China, which has sent more patrol boats into waters claimed
by Japan since the purchase, maintains that it has owned the
islands for centuries. Japan argues it took control of them in
1895, lost authority after World War II and had them returned by
the U.S. in 1972.  Asked about Noda’s comments, a Chinese official yesterday
said Japan was “fully responsible” for causing “an
unprecedented grave situation” in ties.  Japan should “correct its wrongdoing of violating China’s
sovereignty and return to the track of solving the issue through
dialogue and negotiation,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei
told reporters in Beijing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  