-- Japan Cuts Economic Assessment as Maehara Talks of ‘Crisis’
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-10-12T03:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/japan-s-government-cuts-economic-assessment-for-third-month.html
Japan ’s Economy Minister Seiji Maehara said he has a “sense of crisis” as the government
downgraded its economic assessment for a third month, the
longest streak since the 2009 global recession.  “It’s necessary to take a proper response on both fiscal
and financial fronts,” Maehara told reporters in Tokyo today
after the government released a report for October.  Today’s reduction underscores concern that Japan’s economy
may contract as global demand slows and the expiry of government
subsidies for car purchases weakens consumer spending. The
International Monetary Fund this week revised down its estimate
of world growth for this year, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Morgan Stanley predict Japan’s economy will shrink for two
consecutive quarters through the end of December.  “I have an extreme sense of crisis about current economic
conditions,” Maehara said. “Our biggest issue is the trend of
yen appreciation, and the serious suffering this causes
exporters,” adding that he would discuss the topic at meetings
with the chiefs of the U.S. Federal Reserve and the European
Central Bank today.  The yen traded at 78.39 per dollar as of 12:32 p.m. in
 Tokyo , compared with a postwar high of 75.35 per dollar reached
last October. Maehara last week became the first cabinet
minister to attend a Bank of Japan meeting in nearly a decade,
according to the bank, as he presses for more action to spur
growth and defeat deflation.  ‘Weak Tone’  “The economic recovery is in a weak tone recently due to
deceleration of the world economy,” the Cabinet Office said.
The cut in the assessment marks the longest run of downgrades
since the five months through February 2009.  Japan’s government also cut its view on industrial
production for a third month, while it lowered its assessment of
business conditions for the first time in 10 months.  “Industrial production is decreasing,” the government
said. “Firms’ judgment on current business conditions shows
cautiousness,” mainly among manufacturers, the report said.  The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s Tankan survey last week showed that
large manufacturers became more pessimistic as slowdowns in
 China  and  Europe  sapped export demand. Production fell more than
economists had forecast in August.  The government also said economic uncertainty “remains
high” for the euro region and Asia, notably China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  