-- JPMorgan Sees Surge in Fees From U.S.-Listed Chinese Companies
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-10-12T00:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/jpmorgan-sees-surge-in-fees-from-u-s-listed-chinese-companies.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  expects
investment-banking fees from U.S.-listed Chinese companies to
surge this year as they step up acquisitions, helping compensate
for a drop in initial public offerings.  Revenue from mergers advisory, acquisition financing and
convertible bond underwriting for such companies may triple from
last year, said Brian Gu, the bank’s head of corporate finance
for  China . U.S-listed Chinese companies’ contribution to 
JPMorgan's investment banking revenue from China will probably 
more than double from where it stood over the last two years, 
Gu said.  Takeovers involving Chinese companies traded in the U.S.
have surged this year as a drop in valuations encouraged owners
to take them private. Meanwhile, Chinese IPOs in the U.S.
tumbled as a slowing economy and corporate accounting scandals
eroded investor confidence.  “There are lots of bells and whistles added to these
deals, including loan financing and convertible bonds,” Gu said
of the acquisitions. “Clients are no longer interested to just
hear IPO or plain vanilla deal pitches because there is just no
appetite for these. It’s become a different game.”  Takeovers of U.S.-listed Chinese companies reached a record
$6.8 billion this year, more than double the amount for all of
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest deal
was a $3.5 billion bid for  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  in August by
private-equity firms including Carlyle Group LP and Hong Kong-
based FountainVest Partners Co. Ltd., in what would be China’s
largest leveraged buyout.  Convertible Bonds  JPMorgan is advising the special committee appointed by
Focus Media to evaluate the offer.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Credit Suisse
Group AG and Morgan Stanley advised the bidders, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The 178 Chinese companies traded on U.S. exchanges have
fallen by a median of 20 percent in the past year, compared with
a gain of 2.4 percent by Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Slumping stock prices have discouraged Chinese companies
listed in the U.S. from raising money by selling new shares,
said Gu. Instead, some are considering selling convertible bonds
to finance stock buybacks and boost earnings per share, he said.  JPMorgan last month helped  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) ,
the largest online travel agency in China, arrange a $180
million convertible bond sale. At the same time, the New York-
based bank sold Ctrip a derivative designed to minimize dilution
when the bonds are converted into shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  