-- Kahn’s Memorial to FDR Finally Finds Home in East River
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/kahn-s-memorial-to-fdr-finally-finds-home-in-east-river.html
The four-acre Franklin D. Roosevelt
Four Freedoms  Park  finally completes a memorial to the 32nd U.S.
president -- almost four decades after architect Louis Kahn
finished the designs.  The park brings fantastic life to the long-neglected site
at the southern tip of Roosevelt Island, the narrow stretch of
land in the  East River  that once housed lunatics and chronic-
disease sufferers before luring others to chunky gray highrises
with spectacular views.  I traveled there by subway and an aerial tram that glides
above the river. A 10-minute walk (or a 25-cent shuttle bus) to
the memorial takes you past the recently opened South Point Park
and the ruins of a 19th-century smallpox hospital.  Manhattan 
rises to the west as an intricately variegated wall
of buildings.  The Four Freedoms Park, which opens on Oct. 24, is more
than a pleasurable promenade. It pays subtle and dignified
homage to the president who guided the U.S. through the Great
Depression and World War II.  William vanden Heuvel, 82, who has worked for Roosevelt
family foundations since the project’s inception, walked me up
the monumental stair at the entrance.  Bookended by sloping granite slabs, it rises just 12 feet
to the top of a massive berm and evokes the Romantic Classicism
of the French Enlightenment, which was much concerned with
funerary grandeur and the eternal.  Floating Bust  The top of the stair opens to a tidy downward-sloping lawn
symmetrically lined by linden trees that delicately screen the
city views. The lawn culminates in a small plaza, where a bust
depicting a serene Roosevelt appears to float within a granite
niche. (The larger-than-life bronze was cast from a head
sculpted in 1933 by Jo Davidson and selected by Kahn.)  The wall surrounding the bust forms one side of a roofless
room, evoking an unfinished classical temple. It’s made from 36-
ton, 6-foot-square granite blocks and is paved in matching
stone. The high sides leave you in a calm, austere space that
frames the sky overhead and the swirling river waters winding
their way to the sea.  Kahn drew up the design in 1973, rendering it with soft
charcoal on yellow tracing paper. He had readied it for
construction in 1974, but New York Governor  Nelson Rockefeller ,
a prime mover of the project, became vice president to  Gerald Ford  and got distracted by mightier demands.  City Broke  Neither could Kahn depend on Mayor John Lindsay, another
key supporter, as the city was on the brink of bankruptcy.  Then Kahn died of a heart attack in a public bathroom in
New York’s Pennsylvania Station at age 73.  Those events derailed the project but it never died. Vanden
Heuvel decided to push for construction in 2005 after the
documentary film “My Architect,” by Kahn’s son, Nathaniel,
rekindled interest.  The New York firm  Mitchell/Giurgola  Architects LLP brought
Kahn’s drawings up to date. Fred Eychaner of the Chicago-based
Alphawood Foundation made a timely grant, then added $10 million
when construction began.  With other private gifts and contributions from  New York
city  and state, the project is just $1 million short of its $54
million fundraising goal.  Building a 38-year-old design essentially unaltered is
unheard of. Everyone’s architecture dates -- except Kahn’s.  Greatest Works  His greatest works, including the  Salk Institute for
Biological Sciences , in  La Jolla ,  California , and the  Kimball
Art Museum  in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , have only grown in stature over
the decades.  Kahn was an unabashed Modernist, but he sought to marry
contemporary techniques to the deeply emotional qualities of
ancient monuments: an evocative silence, a primordial serenity,
our sense that battered old brick walls could speak to us.  People may be disappointed in the Four Freedoms Park
precisely because it doesn’t provide the emotionally cathartic
narrative in stone and bronze (like the confused Roosevelt
memorial in  Washington ) we’ve come to expect.  Kahn asks you to stop and think.  Pause to read the passage carved in stone from Roosevelt’s
“Four Freedoms” speech, written in the months leading up to
World War II.  Human Rights  Vanden Heuvel told me that those 97 words helped shape the
Atlantic Charter the U.S. signed with Britain before the war and
the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights . The words guided the
formation of the  United Nations , which is prominently visible
from the park.  A visit needn’t be dutiful. Drink in the views, especially
along the waterside promenade that wraps the earth mound. Enjoy
the chugging barges, and gaze on a rocky islet where cormorants
dry their wings and seals occasionally sun.  Kahn has captured an essence of Roosevelt -- and of New
York City.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Hephzibah
Anderson  books.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 