-- King’s BOE Job Attracted ‘High-Quality’ Candidates, Osborne Says
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-12T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/king-s-boe-job-attracted-high-quality-candidates-osborne-says.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said that many “high-quality” candidates applied to
replace Mervyn King as governor of the Bank of England.  “We advertised the post, we have had applications in, and
have had a good number of high-quality applicants,” Osborne
told reporters in Tokyo yesterday.  Speculation on who will succeed King in June is centering
on Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  and Financial
Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner . The deadline for
applications closed early on Oct. 8 and Osborne refused to say
whether he’d consider late bids if someone suitable emerges.  Whoever is appointed will take over a beefed-up institution
with new powers over financial regulation to add to its role
setting monetary policy. The job of the next governor is “near
impossible” and “only superhumans need apply,”  Ed Balls ,
economics spokesman for the opposition Labour Party, has said.  Other potential candidates include Independent Commission
on Banking Chairman  John Vickers , Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  and former Treasury Permanent Secretary Terence Burns.  Tucker gave a flavor of the approach he may take if he gets
the job, saying in Tokyo yesterday that the central bank’s
supervisory role will focus more on understanding how financial
institutions make their money.  In a speech in London late on Oct. 11, Turner said that the
U.K. won’t allow its lenders to be supervised by the European
Central Bank, that quantitative easing may have diminishing
returns and that central bankers need to continue to innovate.  Betting Odds  London-based bookmaker  William Hill (WMH)  Plc is offering odds of
4-5 on Tucker becoming governor, meaning a winning 5-pound ($8)
bet would yield a 4-pound profit. Turner is second-favourite at
3-1 followed by Carney and Vickers, both at 7-1. Carney has
refused to say whether he is in the race, saying only he looks
forward to working with whoever takes over when King retires.  Burns is 10-1 with William Hill and fourth-placed at
Ladbrokes Plc on the same odds. European Parliament lawmaker
 Sharon Bowles  has said she applied for the job and is ranked a
16-1 outsider at William Hill.  Candidates were asked to send a resume, a cover letter and
a questionnaire disclosing prior political activity and
potential conflicts of interest. A panel of officials will draw
up a shortlist and notify those who haven’t made it. They will
then conduct interviews and make a recommendation to Osborne,
with his Liberal Democrat coalition partners also having a say.
The decision will be announced by the end of 2012.  The selection panel comprises Treasury Permanent Secretary
Nicholas Macpherson, Second Permanent Secretary Tom Scholar and
David Lees, chairman of the bank’s court of directors. Lawmakers
will also question the new governor before the job commences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  Tokyo  at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  