-- NBA China Revenue to Increase at Least 10% Annually, Stern Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/nba-china-revenue-to-increase-at-least-10-annually-stern-says.html
National Basketball Association
Commissioner  David Stern  said he expects the league’s revenue in
China to increase by at least 10 percent annually “as far as
the future we can see.”  Rising demand for television and digital rights to NBA
games may drive the league’s revenue to $150 million in China
this year, Stern said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday in Shanghai, where the  Miami Heat  and the  Los Angeles
Clippers  are scheduled to play a preseason game tomorrow. NBA
viewership in China rose 18 percent last year, he said.  “We are slowly demonstrating our continued commitment to
the market,” Stern said. “We are going to build a profitable
business and give back.”  The play of former Houston Rockets star Yao Ming and two
decades of NBA broadcasts have bolstered basketball’s popularity
in China, fueling viewership, apparel sales and demand for
players including  Dwyane Wade  of the Heat to endorse products in
the world’s biggest market for cars, phones and computers. It’s
also made China’s domestic league a destination for older
players including Stephon Marbury and Tracy McGrady.  The defending-champion Heat and the Clippers have played in
Beijing and Shanghai this past week as the NBA continues
appearances that began in 2004. Tickets to the Beijing game on
Oct. 11 that were originally sold for 6,000 yuan ($958) each
were resold for as much as 20,000 yuan, news website Sohu.com
reported.  China Games  The games, featuring players including LeBron James, Wade,
 Chris Paul  and  Blake Griffin , come as the NBA is without a
Chinese-born player for the first-time in 12 years. Yao retired
in 2011 because of foot and ankle injuries and Yi Jianlian, who
played for the Dallas Mavericks last season, signed a one-year
deal with his former Chinese team in Guangdong province.  “The next Yao is  LeBron James ,” Stern said, “The fans of
China are so smart and so sophisticated, that will lift LeBron,
Dwight Howard or  Kobe Bryant  to be the next Yao.”  The emergence of Jeremy Lin, the first Taiwanese- or
Chinese-American to play in the NBA, has also helped build
interest. Lin, 24, became a global sensation last season after
taking over as the starting point guard for the  New York Knicks .
He signed with the Rockets during the offseason.  Yao is also helping in retirement. In July, the 7-foot-6
Yao began a partnership with the NBA to start basketball and
social-development programs for Chinese youth. Yao is also the
owner of the  Shanghai  Sharks basketball team, which he purchased
in 2009.  ‘Best Spokesperson’  “We now have the best NBA spokesperson full time in his
home country and in Shanghai, his home city,” Stern said.  The NBA is also expanding into other businesses. Stern said
he is scheduled to meet tomorrow with Jack Ma, chairman of
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s largest e-commerce company.
Stern declined to say what they’ll discuss.  The NBA also announced this past week that it had agreed to
build a shopping and dining facility outside Beijing with
Chinese developer Yatai Lanhai Investment Group. The 12,000-
square-meter “NBA Center,” which also includes indoor
basketball courts and an interactive games area, is scheduled to
open in 2015.  “We stand to profit well and grow as the revenue from this
source continues to grow,” Stern said of the facility.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Conley in Shanghai at 
 mconley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  