-- Notre Dame Revival Brings Revenue Bonanza to Football Opponents
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-10-12T04:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/notre-dame-revival-brings-revenue-bonanza-to-football-opponents.html
Notre Dame ’s football team is
undefeated after five games for the first time in a decade.
That’s good news for their opponents.  After working through six coaches and compiling a 112-78
record since Lou Holtz retired after the 1996 season, the
program that won eight Associated Press  national titles  and
produced legendary figures such as Knute Rockne and George Gipp
is ranked No. 7 this season. The revival means the team is even
more of a draw on the road for fans and sponsors.  “Notre Dame fans travel and that’s where the economic
impact comes from,” said Scott Minto, director of San Diego
State University’s  Sports MBA program . “You can also tell
sponsors you have Notre Dame on the schedule and that means
national television. That’s better for increasing their
sponsorship deals than any team they could play.”  A revival of the Fighting Irish as a perennial top-10 team
may deliver the greatest long-term benefit to the Atlantic Coast
Conference, which Notre Dame joined in all sports except
football. They will remain independent while playing five games
a year against ACC teams beginning in 2014.  When  Wake Forest University  hosted Notre Dame last November
in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , the crowd exceeded Wake’s
seating capacity of 31,500 by 4,807. To accommodate the demand,
the Demon Deacons sold tickets to the grass hill behind the
south end zone, where people sat on blankets. Notre Dame won 24-
17.  “They are a national brand,” said  Steve Shutt , Wake
Forest’s athletic department spokesman. “That’s the benefit to
everybody in the ACC.”  Notre Dame Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick wasn’t
available to comment.  Football Revenue  Notre Dame is a Catholic institution in  South Bend ,  Indiana ,
with about 8,000 undergraduate students and a $6.3 billion
endowment in fiscal 2011, according to the  National Association
of College and University Business Officers .  The school’s football program generated $68.8 million of
the athletic department’s $94.5 million in revenue, according to
 reports  filed with the Department of Education.  It’s enough to compete with much bigger state institutions
such as the  University of Texas  in Austin, which has an
undergraduate enrollment of about 38,000 and where the football
team generated $95.7 million of the department’s $150.3 million
in revenue.  The Irish travel to Chestnut Hill,  Massachusetts , to play
 Boston College  of the ACC on Nov. 10, and an upper-deck end zone
seat is selling for an average $136, compared with $11 for a
similar seat to the  Virginia Tech  contest the following week,
according to SeatGeek.com, a New York-based ticket aggregator.  Ticket Prices  The average price for all available tickets to Notre Dame
games was $154, well ahead of Boston College’s other ACC
opponents this season: Virginia Tech ($38), Clemson ($37), Miami
($28) and  Maryland  ($16).  Through three televised games this season, viewership of
NBC’s Notre Dame broadcasts is up 45 percent compared with last
year with an average 4.2 million viewers, according to the
network.  “We continue to be thrilled with our Notre Dame football
partnership and hope it continues for many, many years to
come,”  Jon Miller , president of programming for NBC Sports and
NBC Sports Network, said in an e-mail.  While the Fighting Irish’s success boosts opponents, the
school isn’t reaping any great financial payout from its on-
field success just yet. Home games are already sold out;
sponsorship agreements usually run for five, seven and 10 years;
the five-year television extension the school signed with NBC
runs through the 2015 football season; and ticket prices can’t
be raised until next season.  Merchandise Sales  The university benefits in other ways. Fanatics Inc., a
Jacksonville, Florida-based company that runs the official
online stores for more than 100 college and professional teams,
said sales of Notre Dame merchandise since September ranked
second in the U.S. behind the  University of Alabama  -- which has
the No. 1 football team -- and was up 68 percent from this time
last year. Fanatics said 89 percent of fans who purchased Irish
merchandise in September lived outside Indiana.  Page views on Notre Dame’s  website  increased 7 percent to
6.4 million in September from a year before, according to John Heisler, Notre Dame’s chief athletic department spokesman.  Though sales of merchandise and visits to the website will
only lead to an incremental increase in the university’s revenue,
they probably strengthen Notre Dame’s brand over the long term,
eventually leading to increases in television and sponsorship
agreements when they come up for renegotiation.  The best thing the Irish can do for the school’s finances
now is to keep winning.  Stanford Next  Their next chance will come at home tomorrow against No. 17
 Stanford University  (4-1).  Notre Dame has finished in the Associated Press Top 10 once
since 1993, and its 20-3 victory over then-No. 10  Michigan  State
on Sept. 15 was its first over a Top 10 opponent in seven years.
It hasn’t won the national championship since Holtz’s 1988 team.
No players on this year’s team had been born then.  The Irish defense has allowed 39 points, the school’s
fewest in the opening five games of a season since 1975, when
opponents scored 34 points.  It didn’t allow a touchdown in the past three games,
against Michigan, Michigan State and Miami.  “That’s an incredible feat for our defense,” Notre Dame
coach  Brian Kelly , who took over the program in 2010, said in a
press conference this week.  Notre Dame is the only team in the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association ’s top echelon that has never trailed this
season. The last time they started a season without being behind
in five consecutive games was 1947. Notre Dame won the national
championship in 1946 and 1947 and never trailed in either season.  “Our players understand that the plan is to get better,”
Kelly said. “It’s fundamentals, it’s technique, it’s
assignments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  