-- NPS Jumps as FDA Staff Backs Risk Plan for Bowel Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-12T20:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/nps-jumps-as-fda-staff-backs-risk-plan-for-bowel-drug.html
NPS Pharmaceuticals Inc. (NPSP)  rose the
most in about 21 months after a Food and Drug Administration
staff report showed the company’s lead experimental drug
candidate may have a clearer path to U.S. regulatory approval.  The drug, Gattex, helps patients with short-bowel syndrome
absorb nutrients, weaning them off a time-consuming intravenous
nutrition program, the staff  said  today ahead of an Oct. 16
meeting of FDA advisers who will vote whether to recommend
approval. NPS  jumped  19 percent to $10.86 at the close in  New
York , the biggest single-day gain for the Bedminster, New
Jersey-based company since Jan. 31, 2011. NPS has advanced 65
percent this year.  The FDA staff said it would support NPS’s risk-management
plan for Gattex, which would be targeted to specialty physicians
who understand the dangers associated with the drug, including
tumor growth. The staff also suggested additional educational
materials for prescribers emphasizing the key serious risks. The
FDA is scheduled to make a final decision on Gattex by Dec. 30.  “The agency does not believe that access to Gattex for SBS
should be restricted or require elements to assure safe use,”
FDA staff wrote, referring to short-bowel syndrome.  Revenue Estimate  NPS, which reported about $101 million in  revenue  last
year, may see peak annual sales from Gattex reach $350 million
if it’s approved, Francois Nader, the president and chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview. The drug is
meant to increase the ability of short-bowel syndrome patients
to absorb nutrients and replace intravenous nutritional support
given 10 to 12 hours each day, which has been the standard
treatment for the past 40 years, Nader said.  “Giving them one day of freedom a week is a life-changing
event, or two or three,” he said.  The medicine would be used in fewer than 10,000 patients,
Nader estimates.  Short-bowel syndrome is the result of conditions such as
Crohn’s disease or trauma that requires much of the small
intestine to be removed, causing a reduced ability to absorb
water and nutrients.  NPS has proposed prohibiting prescribing Gattex for cancer
patients and those who have had the disease in the past five
years, Nader said. As many as 20 percent of short-bowel patients
had their small intestines removed because of cancer and it’s
unclear how many may have had the disease recently, he said.  Clinical Trial  Three people in a clinical trial of Gattex got cancer and
two died, NPS said a year ago. They were among 566 participants
who have received the drug in various trials, NPS said in a
statement.  An analysis of the trial of 34 patients that took Gattex
for one year found eight patients reduced their dependency on
intravenous nutrition by three days a week, 13 patients
decreased it by two days and 18 were free a day each week from
the process, according to the statement.  The advisory committee will discuss whether the results are
clinically meaningful. European regulators concluded in May the
reduction in intravenous nutrition requirements was meaningful,
FDA said.  NPS shares the rights to sell the drug in  Europe  with
 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , based in  Osaka ,  Japan . NPS plans to
sell Gattex on its own in the U.S., Nader said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  