-- NPS Bowel Drug Gattex’s Risk Plan Gains FDA Staff Support
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-12T13:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/nps-bowel-drug-gattex-s-risk-plan-gains-fda-staff-support.html
NPS Pharmaceuticals Inc. (NPSP) ’s plan to
manage the risks of Gattex, a drug for patients who have lost
the ability to absorb nutrients, gained the support of U.S.
regulators in a  report .  NPS rose 14 percent in early trading after Food and Drug
Administration staff said Gattex, the company’s lead
experimental drug candidate, helped wean patients with short-
bowel syndrome off a time-consuming intravenous nutrition
program. Advisers to the FDA may rely on today’s report when
they meet Oct. 16 to vote on whether to recommend the
Bedminster, New Jersey-based company’s drug for approval.  The risk-management plan would target Gattex to specialty
physicians who understand the dangers associated with the drug,
including tumor growth, according to the report. The staff also
suggested additional educational materials for prescribers
emphasizing the key serious risks. The FDA is scheduled to make
a final decision on Gattex by Dec. 30.  “The agency does not believe that access to Gattex for SBS
should be restricted or require elements to assure safe use,”
FDA staff wrote.  NPS  jumped  to $10.38 at 9 a.m.  New York  time. The stock had
risen 39 percent this year through yesterday.  Revenue Estimate  NPS, which reported about $101 million in  revenue  last
year, may see peak annual sales from Gattex reach $350 million
if it’s approved, President and Chief Executive Officer Francois Nader said in a telephone interview. The drug is meant to
increase the ability of short-bowel syndrome patients to absorb
nutrients and replace intravenous nutritional support given 10
to 12 hours each day, which has been the standard treatment for
the past 40 years, Nader said.  “Giving them one day of freedom a week is a life-changing
event, or two or three,” he said.  The medicine would be used in less than 10,000 patients,
Nader estimates.  Short-bowel syndrome is the result of conditions such as
Crohn’s disease or trauma that requires much of the small
intestine to be removed, causing a reduced ability to absorb
water and nutrients.  NPS has proposed prohibiting prescribing Gattex for cancer
patients and those who have had the disease in the past five
years, Nader said. As many as 20 percent of short-bowel patients
had their small intestines removed because of cancer and it’s
unclear how many may have had the disease recently, he said.  Clinical Trial  Three people in a clinical trial of Gattex got cancer and
two died, NPS said a year ago. They were among 566 participants
who have received the drug in various trials, NPS said in a
statement.  An analysis of the trial of 34 patients that took Gattex
for one year found eight patients reduced their dependency on
intravenous nutrition by three days a week, 13 patients
decreased it by two days and 18 were free a day each week from
the process, according to the statement.  The advisory committee will discuss whether the results are
clinically meaningful. European regulators concluded in May the
reduction in intravenous nutrition requirements was meaningful,
FDA said.  NPS shares the rights to sell the drug in  Europe  with
 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , based in  Osaka ,  Japan . NPS plans to
sell Gattex on its own in the U.S., Nader said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  