-- NYC Best: Streisand, Morrissey, Foodie Fest, Block Party
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/nyc-best-streisand-morrissey-foodie-fest-block-party.html
With his iconic bouffant coiffure
and still-supple croon, Morrissey plays Terminal 5 before
embarking on his North American tour.  Expect to hear Smiths classics like “Last Night I Dreamt
That Somebody Loved Me,” alongside songs from his expansive
solo career.  The hypnotic Kristeen Young opens.  At 610 W. 56th St. Information: +1-212-582-6600;
 http://www.terminal5nyc.com .  Bronze Body  A Malevich drawing is juxtaposed with a wall organizer
designed by Italian architect Gio Ponti.  There’s George Condo’s painting and a mahogany totem by Leo
Amino; a bronze torso by Giacometti with Maarten Baas’s sculpted
“Clay” table.  The paired objects form vignettes at the Phillips de Pury
midtown showroom, where buyers can peruse them before the sale
on Oct. 16.  “Dialogues Between Art and Design” is curated by
designer Murray Moss.  At 450 Park Avenue. Information: +1-646-588-7680;
 http://www.phillipsdepury.com .  Saturday Afternoon  Eat, drink and be merry at the  Public Theater ’s block party
as the NYC landmark celebrates its $40 million makeover.  Famed food trucks like Korilla BBQ, Rickshaw Dumplings and
Go Burger will be on hand along with star chefs Andrew Carmellini and Michael Oliver.  Joe’s Pub and the new Library lounge will be open for
drinks.  Singers and musicians will provide the soundtrack, plus
you’ll get a peek at some upcoming events, including the world
premiere of “Here Lies Love” by  David Byrne  and Fatboy Slim.  From noon to 5 p.m., rain or shine, at 425 Lafayette St.
Information: +1-212-539-8500;  http://www.publictheater.org .  Saturday Night  Barbra Streisand  is back in hometown  Brooklyn , but this
time she’s bringing an orchestra and choir.  Count on hearing “People” as well as her picks from the
American songbook, not to mention  Andrew Lloyd Webber .  Joining Streisand onstage for “How Deep Is the Ocean,”
Jason Gould holds his own with his Mom.  At Barclays Center, 620 Atlantic Ave., Brooklyn.
Information: +1-877-772-5849;  http://www.barclayscenter.com .  Sunday  Take this rare chance to see magnificent drawings from the
Staatliche Graphische Sammlung in Munich.  They’re all here: Michelangelo, Raphael, Titian, Durer,
Rembrandt.  Van Gogh , Caspar David Friedrich and Adolph Menzel from the
19th century.  And later masters such as Picasso, Hockney and Baselitz.  “Durer to de Kooning: 100 Master Drawings from Munich”
runs through Jan. 6 at the Morgan Library and Museum, 225
Madison Ave. Information: +1-212-685-0008;
 http://www.themorgan.org .  Sunday Fest  Drop in on the Grand Tasting to sample delicious wine and
food.  Celebrity chefs will be demonstrating the preparation of
signature dishes, among them: Rocco DiSpirito,  Marcus Samuelsson ,  Bobby Flay  and Masaharu Morimoto.  Brunch, book signings and lots of other events at various
venues around town.  Food Network NYC Wine & Food Festival at the Hudson River
Park’s Pier 57, West Side Highway and W. 15th St. Information:
 http://nycwineandfoodfestival.com .  Sunday Matinee  Emerging from the pit, the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra is
onstage at  Carnegie Hall  in the first of this season’s concerts.  Michelle DeYoung steps in for Eva-Marie Westbroek to
perform Wagner’s adulterous “Wesendonck Lieder.”  Also on the program, “Eine Alpensinfonie,” an amusing
tone-poem for mighty orchestral forces by  Richard Strauss .  Semyon Bychkov conducts.  At 7th Ave. and 57th St. Information: +1-212-247-7800;
 http://www.carnegiehall.org .  Beacon cooks everything over an open fire, so start with
roasted oysters, and then try the chicken under a brick with
pickled tomato panzanella salad.  While waiting for the flames to do their work, sip on an
Orange Pisco Sour.  At 25 W. 56th St. Information: +1-212-332-0500.  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Lapham’s  podcast  and Jeremy Gerard
on  theater .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 