-- JPMorgan, Wells Fargo Write Down Home-Equity Loans
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-10-12T17:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/occ-forced-jpmorgan-wells-fargo-to-write-down-home-equity-loans.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC) , prompted by U.S. regulators, took almost $1.4 billion in
charge-offs on home-equity loans and other mortgages to
borrowers who filed for  bankruptcy protection .  JPMorgan wrote off $825 million in loans in the third
quarter, 87 percent of which were home-equity loans, the bank
said today while reporting third-quarter earnings. The guidance
by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency led Wells Fargo
to increase net loan charge-offs by $567 million, which was
covered by reserves, the San Francisco-based bank said.  The OCC issued  guidance  in July on how banks should account
for so-called troubled debt restructurings, or TDRs, if the
lender doesn’t expect payment in full of both principal and
interest. The move reflects the tougher stance by new
Comptroller  Thomas Curry , who took over in March, said Clifford
Rossi, a finance professor at the  University of Maryland .  “There has been a sea change with Curry there,” Rossi
said. “From a supervisory standpoint, the OCC is going to start
to scrutinize these type of positions more.”  JPMorgan’s nonaccrual loans increased by $1.7 billion
because of the decision, the New York-based bank said. Wells
Fargo moved $1.4 billion in loans to nonaccrual status,
including $1 billion in first mortgages and $262 million of so-
called junior liens, the company said in a statement.  “We would expect, given the characteristics of the loans
we were asked to charge off, that we will receive that value
back in the form of principal payments over time,” JPMorgan
Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein told reporters on a
conference call.  ‘Accounting Clarifications’  The regulatory change caused JPMorgan’s home-equity charge-
off rate, which excludes so-called purchase credit-impaired
loans, to surge to 6.22 percent from 2.82 percent a year ago and
2.53 percent in the second quarter. Without the charge, and
excluding PCI loans, the charge-off rate would have been 2.23
percent, the largest U.S. bank said in an investor presentation
on its website.  Braunstein said that 97 percent of the loans are currently
paying, with about half paying on time for more than two years.  While the OCC directive will probably increase third-
quarter charge-offs and non-performing assets, it isn’t
“fundamentally at odds” with a broader pattern of improved
asset quality in U.S. banks’ mortgage books,  Fitch Ratings  said
in a note today.  “We view these prospective losses as reflections of
accounting clarifications rather than economically significant
changes,” Fitch said.  Other Lenders  Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest U.S. bank, had $37.2
billion of home-equity loans at the end of June, according to a
quarterly filing. About $1.6 billion of the loans, or 4.3
percent, were more than 30 days late, according to the filing.  The home-equity loans are in Citi Holdings, the division
created by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  to hold assets
tagged for sale. Citigroup has sold about $14 billion of
mortgages since 2010, about 60 percent of which were delinquent,
CFO John Gerspach said last month. The New York-based bank
reports third-quarter earnings Oct. 15.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the lender that rescued Countrywide
Financial Corp. in 2008, had $118 billion in home-equity loans
at June 30, with 1.1 percent at least 30 days overdue, the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company said in a July 18
presentation. Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender,
reports earnings Oct. 17.  ‘Playing Catch-Up’  U.S. Bancorp, the nation’s fifth-largest lender by
deposits, had $17.5 billion in home-equity and second mortgages
at June 30, according to a  filing  from the Minneapolis-based
company. About 1.9 percent were marked as overdue or non-
performing.  Some banks have been “playing catch-up” on home-equity
losses, said Bert Ely, an Alexandria, Virginia-based bank
consultant.  “There has been a sense overall that banks in general and
some banks in particular have not reserved sufficiently for
future losses,” Ely said of their home-equity portfolios.  Regulators may also be seeking to adjust for banks cutting
back too much on loan-loss reserves in general, he said.
Comptroller Curry said on Sept. 20 that he was concerned banks
were getting too much of their profit gains from slashing
reserves.  ‘Very Sensible’  The OCC said in the June accounting advisory that in cases
of TDRs, banks should “charge-off the excess of the loan’s
carrying amount over the fair value of the collateral as
uncollectible and the bank should place the remaining balance on
nonaccrual.”  Lawrence White, an economics professor at  New York 
University’s Stern School of Business, said the change is “very
sensible.”  “You can’t have banks doing the extend-and-pretend game
where they ignore changed circumstances in the hope that maybe
something will work out,” White said. “It’s just not a good
way for a prudentially regulated financial institution to be
behaving.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  