-- Oerlikon Faces Chinese Delay on $268 Million Solar Unit Sale
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-10-12T10:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/oerlikon-faces-chinese-delay-for-sale-of-268-million-solar-unit.html
OC Oerlikon AG, the Swiss
engineering group that is selling a solar unit to  Tokyo Electron
Ltd. (8035) , said it faces a delay from Chinese authorities to approve
the $268 million deal.  “The case is still with the Chinese authorities,”
Burkhard Boendel, an Oerlikon spokesman, said in an e-mail
confirmed today.“We expect a decision within a foreseeable
timeframe.” Oerlikon had expected the deal to close in the
third quarter, Chief Executive Officer Michael Buscher said on
an August 3 conference call.  Exiting Oerlikon Solar is key to Buscher’s plans to move
the company forward from its 2010 financial restructuring, when
it agreed to rescue-financing with  hedge funds , into a position
where it can look at acquisitions.  Boendel said Pfaeffikon-based Oerlikon is expecting an
approval and he couldn’t comment on the reasons for the delay.
Tatsuya Aso, a spokesman for Tokyo Electron, said he wasn’t sure
why Chinese approval was taking more time than expected and
there is “no specific issue.”  Oerlikon shares dropped as much as 2 percent and traded
1.75 percent lower at 9 francs as of 12:12 p.m. in Zurich. The
stock has gained 83 percent this year.  Positive Impact  “Obviously the division is loss-making and I expect a
positive impact of the sale on net profit,” said Christoph
Ladner, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich. If the
deal doesn’t close this year, it will lead to a correction of
analyst estimates, he said.  Buscher has pressed ahead with divestments this year by
selling car-gear manufacturing capacity in  Italy  for an
undisclosed price in June, and Oerlikon’s smallest textile unit,
Melco, in July, also for an undisclosed sum.  Oerlikon announced the sale of Solar, which employs 675
people in eight locations, for 250 million Swiss francs ($268
million) in March. Oerlikon Solar makes equipment and production
lines that companies such as Sharp Corp. use to make thin-film
modules with silicon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  