-- Oil Heads for First Weekly Gain in Month on Syria Tension
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-12T12:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/oil-heads-for-first-weekly-gain-in-month-on-syria-tension.html
Oil headed for its first weekly gain
in a month in New York as OPEC production fell to the lowest
level in eight months and increasing Middle East tensions
prompted concern that supplies may be further disrupted.  Futures were little changed after rising as much as 0.6
percent earlier. Production in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries fell 510,000 barrels a day to 31.17 million
a day last month as sanctions reduced Iranian exports, the
International Energy Agency said. Brent traded near the highest
premium in a year to West Texas Intermediate grade after Turkey
said a Syrian plane that it grounded contained munitions, while
Italian Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi said  Europe  is prepared to
tighten measures against the  Iran .  “The noose of U.S. and European Union-led sanctions
continues to tighten around Iran’s exports,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in London.  Crude for November delivery was at $92.35 a barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 28
cents, at 1:03 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday climbed
82 cents to $92.07. Prices are up 2.7 percent this week and down
6.6 percent this year.  Brent for November settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange declined 51 cents to $115.20 a barrel,
trimming this week’s gain to 2.8 percent. The European benchmark
crude was at a premium of $22.86 to WTI, down from $23.64
yesterday, the biggest gap since October 2011.  Middle East  Global oil demand will increase next year by 800,000
barrels a day to 90.5 million, the Paris-based IEA said in its
monthly oil market report today, keeping its growth estimate
unchanged from last month. Worldwide fuel demand is projected to
gain 1.2 percent annually to 95.7 million barrels a day in 2017,
the agency said in a separate report.  Oil may extend gains in New York after its moving average
convergence-divergence indicator rose above the signal line
yesterday for the first time in four weeks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investors typically buy contracts on a
so-called bullish MACD crossover. Crude has technical resistance
along its middle Bollinger Band, around $93.50 a barrel today.  The Syrian Arab Airlines plane that was forced by Turkish
F-16 jet to land on Oct. 10 contained equipment and munitions
sent for the Syrian Defense Ministry from a Russian institution
equivalent to a state arms manufacturer, Recep Tayyip Erdogan,
 Turkey ’s prime minister, said yesterday. The confiscation of the
cargo follows the shelling of a Turkish border town by Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s forces and Turkish artillery
barrages in response over the past week.  Europe is prepared to tighten sanctions on Iran if talks
stall over the country’s nuclear program, Terzi said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. A European Union ban
on the purchase, transport, financing and insurance of Iranian
oil went into effect on July 1. Military action against the
Persian Gulf nation, which has been threatened by Israeli
leaders, wouldn’t be effective, Terzi said.  “The potential for a blow-up in the Middle East is being
reflected in that persistently wide spread between Brent and
WTI,” said Michael McCarthy, a chief market strategist at CMC
Markets in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  