-- Omers’ Oxford Plans $3.1 Billion Toronto Casino Complex
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   S t . O n g e
-- 2012-10-12T18:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/omers-oxford-properties-plans-3-billion-toronto-project.html
Ontario Municipal Employees
Retirement System’s Oxford Properties said major Las Vegas
casino operators have expressed interest in its C$3 billion
($3.1 billion) proposal to develop a casino, hotel and
convention complex in downtown Toronto.  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) ,  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  MGM
Resorts International (MGM)  have all worked with Oxford on the
proposal, Blake Hutcheson, Oxford’s chief executive officer said
by telephone from Toronto where the company is based.  “There are a number of operators who have approached us
and think that this site would be a bulls eye for their needs,”
he said.  MGM is waiting for Toronto to determine the best location
for a casino and Ontario to select the best operator, Alan Feldman, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Ron Reese , a
spokesman for Las Vegas Sands, didn’t immediately respond to a
call requesting comment. Gary Thompson, a Caesars spokesman
didn’t immediately respond to phone and e-mail queries.  The project is one of the largest urban redevelopments in
 North America  and would include the renovation of the Metro
Toronto Convention Centre near the city’s waterfront, Oxford
Properties said in statement today. The plan, which would
require no public investment, calls for an expanded convention
center, space for offices, stores and residences, as well as the
addition of a hotel, casino and 5.5-acre urban park.  ‘Excitement Building’  Ontario announced plans to expand the gambling industry
earlier this year including a possible new casino in or around
Toronto as it searches for new revenue to close a C$13 billion
budget gap. The province has asked for the approval of the city,
which has yet to vote on the proposal. A number of locations are
being considered near Toronto’s lake front and in surrounding
cities.  “We’re pleased to see that there’s excitement building
within the business community about a proposed integrated
gaming-entertainment center,” said Tony Bitonti, spokesman for
the  Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corp. , which oversees gambling in
the province. No formal call for proposals will be issued until
after the location of the casino is decided, he said.  Omers posted a 3.17 percent gross investment return last
year, led by private equity, real estate and infrastructure
holdings, the fund said in its annual report. It invests in real
estate and manages more than C$55 billion of assets for more
than 420,000 retired and active municipal employees in  Canada ’s
most populous province.  The development would be called Oxford Place. Foster &
Partners, an architectural firm, would be responsible for the
master plan, Oxford Properties said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge in London at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  