-- Honda Record Sales Led by New Compacts in Emerging Markets: Cars
-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2012-10-12T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/honda-record-sales-led-by-new-compacts-in-emerging-markets-cars.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  President Takanobu Ito forecast growth over the next two to three years will be led
by sales of its range of new Fit vehicles as  Japan ’s third-
biggest automaker expands in emerging markets.  “We will see the good uplifting effect from the Fit
series,” Ito, 59, said yesterday in an interview at his Tokyo
office, where Honda’s spaceman-like  Asimo  robot greets visitors
by name. “So around the world, I believe 2013, 2014, 2015 will
be years of growth.”  Ito’s focus on the Fit, a vehicle no bigger than  Toyota
Motor Corp.’s (7203)  Prius, illustrates Honda’s expectations for global
demand to increasingly tilt toward smaller autos in the next
five years as fuel prices rise. That strategy is being emulated
by  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Fiat SpA (F)  and Toyota as compact cars are
on pace to capture their largest share of the U.S. auto market
since 1993, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  “In choosing a car, what every consumer looks out for is
whether it’s environmentally friendly or not and how efficient a
car is, so Honda’s strategy to focus on smaller models is
appropriate,” Satoshi Yuzaki, Tokyo-based general manager at
Takagi Securities Co. “The growth in emerging markets is
incomparable to that in developed markets, so Honda’s target to
get half of its sales from emerging markets is in line with the
industry’s growth.”  Honda, forecasting to sell a record 4.3 million vehicles
this fiscal year, is planning worldwide rollouts of new Fit
vehicles, including a sedan and compact sport-utility vehicle,
from next year, said Ito, who’s led the company since 2009. The
start of a factory in  Mexico  will further increase production of
the Fit, known as the Jazz in  Europe , for the North American
market in 2014, he said.  Larger Profits  Emerging markets , where Honda sold one-third of its
vehicles last fiscal year, will lead the growth and account for
half of deliveries by March 2017, according to a five-year plan
unveiled by Ito last month.  While larger cars tend to fetch larger profits, Ito said
he’ll seek to protect  profitability  levels by taking lessons
from the company’s motorcycle division, Ito said. Honda, the
world’s biggest motorcycle maker, generated an operating income
margin of 11 percent last fiscal year, compared with a loss at
the automobile business.  Ito declined to disclose profitability targets because the
company traditionally only discusses those figures internally,
most recently Oct. 11, he said.  Doubling Profit  In the year ending March 2013, Honda  predicts  net income to
more than double to 470 billion yen, or 18 percent higher than
the profit forecast at  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  Like other Japanese
automakers, Honda is recovering from last year, when vehicle
sales tumbled to 3.11 million, or 21 percent below its last
record in the year ended March 2008. Honda ranked ninth out of
global carmakers last year, according to Bloomberg Industries
data.  The U.S., which accounted for 47 percent of Honda’s revenue
and 96 percent of operating profit last fiscal year, will remain
the company’s most important market, said Ito, who worked for
two years in Raymond,  Ohio , at the automaker’s research &
development center.  The latest version of the Accord, the second-best selling
car in the U.S., is able to challenge the  Toyota Camry ’s lead,
he said. The Accord midsize sedan was overtaken in 2002 by the
Camry as the best-selling car in the U.S. -- a position that
Toyota hasn’t relinquished since.  Disruptive VW  While Honda lags behind Toyota in the U.S., Ito said he
sees  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  as potentially the most disruptive
competitor.  “Now’s the time when they need to think about whether they
can adapt the car to one that is suited to the U.S. market and
if you think about their actual capabilities, I think they’ll do
that,” Ito said in reference to the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
automaker. “They’ll be able to adapt the cars to suit the U.S.
market. When they come up with that car, that will be the
biggest competitor for us.”  The threat has yet to materialize as Volkswagen, which sold
12 percent of vehicles worldwide during the first six months of
the year, only had a market share of about 4 percent in the
U.S., according to Bloomberg Industries data. Globally,
Volkswagen is targeting to become the industry’s biggest
producer by selling 10 million vehicles by 2018.  Besides the Fit, the engineer-turned-president said the
vehicle he’s most excited about recently is the Beat, a mini
sports car from two decades ago that’s being revived with the
latest technology. His interest in the Beat stretches back to
when he was developing Honda’s top-of-the-line NSX supercar.  ’Cute’ Sports Car  “When the  Beat  was being built, I was on the development
team to work on the NSX sports car and sports cars are something
I really love,” Ito said. “I was kind of envious of the little
cute sports car.”  Average U.S. retail  gasoline prices  averaged at $3.813 a
gallon this week, the highest for this time of year, according
to Bloomberg data going back to 2004.  On  China , where sales of Japanese auto brands tumbled 41
percent last month amid a territorial dispute over a group of
islands, Ito said the company isn’t changing any of its plans
for the country. China may develop into the world’s biggest
market for hybrid vehicles and it’s unlikely that the current
political tension will last for longer than six months, he said.
Honda’s own China sales in September tumbled to their lowest
level since May 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Winkler in  New York  at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  