-- London Jumps to Second Behind NYC in PwC Rank of Finance Cities
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-10-12T11:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/london-jumps-to-second-behind-nyc-in-pwc-rank-of-finance-cities.html
London  has moved up from sixth to a
close second behind  New York  in a ranking of financial centers
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP after the consulting firm took
account of the British capital’s international connections.  London’s “economic clout, ease of doing business,
innovation and attraction as an international gateway” offset
Britain’s sluggish economy and financial job losses, according
to the Oct. 11 report by PwC, which examined the social and
economic performance of 27 cities.  New York remained in first place, while Toronto and Paris
rank third and fourth, respectively. The first Asian city in the
ranking, Singapore, comes in seventh, followed by  Hong Kong .
London, which hosted the Olympics this year, topped PwC’s new
“city gateway” category that seeks to measure a financial
center’s attraction to people outside its home country.  “If we are to continue to be a high-performing city, we
need to consider whether we are planning adequately for the
challenges that lie ahead, looking at major infrastructure
improvements and connectivity to maintain our edge,” David
Snell, a partner in PwC’s London office, said in a statement.  London Mayor  Boris Johnson  has been trying to convince
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government to build a new airport
to replace Heathrow, which suffers from congestion.  Four of PwC’s five leaders in inner-city transportation and
infrastructure sit in Asia: Singapore, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong
Kong. Paris moved up seven spots to top the livability category.  The U.K. capital’s financial industry is fighting to keep
its reputation intact after scandals including the manipulation
of the London interbank offered rate and an alleged $2.3 billion
trading fraud at Swiss bank UBS AG. The U.K. has shed more than
100,000 financial jobs, or a tenth of the industry’s workforce,
since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008,
according to the  Confederation of British Industry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  