-- Top Fund Favors Corporates as Slowdown End Seen: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-12T02:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/top-fund-favors-corporates-as-slowdown-end-seen-china-credit.html
China’s top-performing bond fund
manager predicts corporate debt will outperform government notes
as economists have overestimated the need for monetary easing to
revive the economy.  Wanjia Asset Management Co., which oversees 29.7 billion
 yuan  ($4.7 billion) of assets, said  growth  may rebound to as
much as 7.6 percent and  inflation  may exceed 2 percent in the
final three months of 2012. In the third quarter, the economy
expanded 7.4 percent, the slowest in 42 months, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 35 analysts before a report next week.  “It may be difficult for the economy to have a decent
rebound this year, but at least the good thing is that it won’t
slow further in the fourth quarter,” said Zou Yu, head of fixed
income in  Shanghai  at Wanjia, whose  Wanjia Tianli Bond Fund B (150038) ’s
net asset value per unit increased 51 percent in the past year.
“The probability of a cut in  interest rates  or reserve
requirement ratio is very small this year.”  Bets on a recovery have driven the 10-year sovereign  yield 
four basis points higher to 3.50 percent this this month, even
as the  Asian Development Bank  and the  International Monetary
Fund  cut their 2012 growth estimates. Similar-maturity debt
yields 8.08 percent in  Russia , 8.16 percent in  India  and 9.64
percent in  Brazil . Zou’s forecast contrasts with the median for
a 1 percentage point cut in banks’ reserve requirements this
year, according to a separate survey of 14 economists.  The  yield  on one-year government debt fell two basis points
in October to 2.77 percent, after rising 45 basis points last
quarter, Chinabond data show. The  rate  on similar-maturity
corporate bonds dropped three basis points to 4.16 percent,
after gaining 75 basis points in the previous three months.  Room to Stimulate  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on Sept. 11 the nation has room for
fiscal and monetary measures to support growth and will meet
this year’s economic goals. The central bank lowered the
benchmark deposit and lending  rates  by 25 basis points in June
and July. The rate cut in June was the first since 2008.  “An interest-rate cut can’t be excluded by the end of this
year, said Lu Xin, a bond fund manager in Shanghai at Everbright
Pramerica Fund Management Co., which manages 23 billion yuan of
assets. “The high funding costs are hurting local companies and
ultimately the economy.”  He said it was “risky” to invest in low-rated bonds as
the economy slows.  Money-Market Signals  The central bank has kept the reserve requirement  ratio 
unchanged at 20 percent since a second reduction this year in
May and has relied on reverse repurchase contracts to inject
capital into the financial system. Yesterday, it kept the  yield 
on seven-day reverse repos unchanged at 3.35 percent for a sixth
sale, higher than the one-year deposit  rate  of 3 percent.  “The central bank’s action of keeping seven-day reverse
repo rate higher than the one-year deposit rate is sending a
clear signal that it’s not necessary to further lower benchmark
interest rates,” said Zou.  Inflation was 1.9 percent last month, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey before a report on
Oct. 15. Consumer prices climbed 2 percent in August, compared
with 1.8 percent in July, as increased grain costs fed into pork
prices. The statistics bureau is due to release gross domestic
product data on Oct. 18.  Rebalancing Economy  “The government’s ultimate task is to rebalance the
economy,” said Zou, whose fund was the best among the 226
tracked by Bloomberg. “If the central bank cuts reserve ratios
or interest rates, that will bring down social borrowing costs
and help those inefficient companies to survive,” which would
be counter to the rebalancing goal, he said.  Zou said he favors corporate bonds with shorter maturities
because of the stabilizing economy and the benchmark 10-year
government yield may rise in the fourth quarter. China State
Grid Corp. sold 10 billion yuan of three-year bonds at 4.39
percent yesterday, higher than the 4.15 percent when it sold
similar maturity debt on Aug. 15.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting sovereign notes
fell three basis points this month to 85 basis points in  New
York , after a 35 basis-point drop in the July-September period,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a government or company fails to adhere to its
debt agreements.  China’s economic growth is poised to recover after the
country’s once-in-a-decade leadership transition,  Mark McCombe ,
Asia-Pacific chairman of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, told Bloomberg Television on Oct. 10. The Chinese
Communist Party will hold a congress starting Nov. 8, which will
feature the power handover.  The yuan rose as much as 0.2 percent to 6.2654 per dollar
today, the strongest since 1993, on speculation policy makers
will act to revive growth.  “I am not quite optimistic about the  bond market  because
it lacks support from economic fundamentals,” said Zou. “But
it will take some time to judge if the stabilization in the
economy can be sustained in the first and second quarter.”  --Judy Chen. Editors: Sandy Hendry,  Shelley Smith   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  