-- Ex-Morgan Stanley Executive’s Stabbing Charges Dropped
-- B y   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-10-12T18:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/morgan-stanley-s-jennings-to-have-charges-dropped-police-say.html
Charges against William Bryan Jennings, the former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  U.S. bond-underwriting chief
accused of stabbing a New York cab driver over a fare, will be
dropped, police said.  “I’m aware that the charges are being dropped,” Detective
Chester Perkowski of the Darien,  Connecticut , police department
said today in an interview. He declined to comment further.  Jennings was accused of attacking the driver, Mohamed
Ammar, on Dec. 22 with a 2 1/2-inch blade after a 40-mile
(64 kilometer) ride from New York to the banker’s $3.4 million
home in Darien. Ammar, a native of  Egypt  and a U.S. citizen,
said Jennings told him, “I’m going to kill you. You should go
back to your country,” according to a police report.  Jennings faced assault and hate-crime charges, each of
which brings a maximum sentence of five years in prison. He was
also charged with not paying the fare, a misdemeanor. He pleaded
not guilty March 9.  Eugene Riccio , Jennings’s attorney, wouldn’t confirm that
the case had been abandoned.  “All I’m saying is we’re showing up,” he said today in a
phone interview. “We have a court date Monday, and we’re going
to be there.”  Left Bank  Jennings no longer works at New York-based Morgan Stanley,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter who
declined to be named because the information isn’t public.  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, the sixth-
largest  U.S. bank  by assets, said in March that Jennings had
been placed on leave. Pendleton didn’t immediately return a call
for comment today.  Riccio declined to comment on his client’s employment.
Jennings didn’t immediately return a phone call to his home.  Steven Weiss, the supervisory state’s attorney, didn’t
return a call seeking comment on the status of the case.  “Mr. Ammar is outraged by the prosecutor’s decision and
continues to demand justice,” Ammar’s attorney, Hassan Ahmad of
Ahmad Navqi Rodriguez LLP in  New York , said in a statement. “He
was anxiously awaiting trial this month and had no indication
that the prosecutor would take such a drastic turn nearly a year
after this crime was committed and within days of the trial.”  ‘Seriously Undermine’  On March 28, Jennings filed a motion seeking to have the
case dismissed, arguing that Ammar contradicted himself in
statements to the police. The arrest warrant contained false
statements and omissions that “seriously undermine” Ammar’s
credibility, according to the filing by Jennings. That motion
was still pending and was to be the subject of an Oct. 15
hearing.  Jennings flagged Ammar down in front of Ink48, a hotel on
 Manhattan ’s West Side, sometime before 11 p.m. after the banker
said his car service didn’t appear, according to the police
report. Jennings had been attending a company Christmas party.  Ammar told police that once they reached Jennings’s home,
he refused to pay the $204 fare they had agreed on. He said he
drove away to find police and that during the ride the banker
stabbed him in the hand. Jennings said that they never agreed on
an amount and that Ammar had demanded $294, which he viewed as
exorbitant.  The case is State of Connecticut v. Jennings 12-0176761,
Superior Court for the State of Connecticut ( Stamford ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Dillon  at Connecticut Superior Court in Stamford at
   jdillon@snet.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  