-- Osborne Blames Germany for BAE/EADS Merger Talks Collapse
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-12T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/osborne-blames-germany-for-bae-eads-merger-talks-collapse.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  blamed Germany for the collapse of the planned
merger between European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. and  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/) , saying Berlin effectively vetoed the deal.  “I would have liked to have found more time to discuss the
possibility of a merger,” Osborne told reporters in Tokyo. “We
just thought it was worth discussing and we have been a bit
disappointed, primarily by Germany’s attitude, which in effect
vetoed this deal.”  The comments are the most outspoken by any government
minister involved in the talks to create the world’s largest
aerospace and defense company by sales. France and Britain were
unable to overcome German concerns about being marginalized in
the combined company, whose operations would have been run out
of Toulouse,  France , and  London , shutting out Munich, people
familiar with the matter said this week.  Osborne said Britain wanted guarantees that its strategic
defense interests would be assured, jobs maintained and pledges
about other government stakes in the companies.  “I would have liked to see if we could have progressed on
those talks even if that meant the deal couldn’t go ahead, not
that we were absolutely committed to the deal or anything like
it,” Osborne said.  German Denial  Two German officials this week, asking not to be named,
pushed back at assertions that Berlin torpedoed the deal. The
U.K. rejected France’s demand to keep open an option to increase
its stake above 9 percent, they said.  Germany  was open to the
option, provided it maintained parity with France, they said.  Germany is the European Union’s most populous country and
its largest economy. On military matters, it lags behind
nuclear-armed Britain and France in both conventional hardware
and force projection.  According to the Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute, Germany spent $43.5 billion, or 1.4 percent of its
economy, on its military in 2011. The U.K. and France each spent
$58 billion. That amounted to 2.3 percent of the French economy
and 2.6 percent of Britain’s. France and Britain are also
working together to develop the next generation of aircraft
carriers and drones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  Tokyo  at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  