-- Total to Push Ahead With Shale Gas Drilling in Poland, CEO Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-10-12T07:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/total-to-push-ahead-with-shale-gas-drilling-in-poland-ceo-says.html
Total SA (FP) , France’s largest oil
company, will pursue the search for shale gas in  Poland  by
drilling another well, even after partner  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
pulled out following “disappointing” results.  “The permit is big,” Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said yesterday in an interview in Paris. Total will
review results from the two wells drilled so far and may have to
“drill differently” or elsewhere, he said.  Exxon plans to surrender two of its six shale-drilling
licenses to the Polish government after deciding in June to quit
the country. Two exploratory wells drilled last year failed to
flow at sufficient rates, according to the U.S. company, whose
Werbkowice permit is shared with Total. The results didn’t
indicate viable quantities of gas,  De Margerie  said yesterday.  “It’s not with two wells that we will know,” he said.
“That’s the problem with non-conventionals. We find reserves
almost well by well.”  Unconventional extraction refers to petroleum production
that uses methods other than traditional  oil wells . It includes
hydraulic fracturing, which involves blasting shale rock with
sand, chemicals and water to release oil and gas.  Poland will produce “several” billion cubic meters of gas
from shale rock by 2020, Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski
said in July. The country’s recoverable shale-gas reserves
amount to as much as 768 billion cubic meters, the  Polish
Geological Institute  said in March.  Different Strategy  “Poland’s potential isn’t written off because there were
two wells that gave disappointing results,” De Margerie said,
adding that Total and Exxon adopted different strategies. Total
is seeking new permits for unconventional oil and gas, whereas
Exxon acquired XTO Energy Inc. in 2010 with a view to exporting
its expertise in shale drilling to Europe, he said.  Poland and France have the biggest potentially recoverable
reserves of shale gas in Europe, according to the  International
Energy Agency . Total, based in Paris, has acquired shale permits
outside its home market because lawmakers last year banned the
use of hydraulic fracturing in the country.  Total has also invested in shale ventures in the U.S. and
Argentina and has said it’s studying the potential for projects
in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  