-- EBay’s PayPal Said to Cut as Many as 400 Jobs
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/paypal-said-to-be-cutting-as-many-as-400-jobs.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal is cutting as
many as 400 jobs, or about 3 percent of the workforce, an effort
by President David Marcus to reorganize the payment processor
and trim costs, a person with knowledge of the plans said
yesterday.  PayPal is eliminating jobs primarily in its product and
technology groups, according to the person, who asked not to be
named because the plans are private. The cuts, which will affect
at least 300 out of 13,000 jobs, are set to happen in the next
few weeks, the person said.  Marcus, who took over in April, is leading an overhaul to
streamline a business marked by inefficiencies such as excessive
meetings and a months-long project-approval process. He started
the makeover in June by consolidating nine product groups into
one. Workers also will be reorganized -- moved from walled
cubicles and offices to open rooms, where management will sit
among staff.  “We have told PayPal employees about plans under way to
strengthen and simplify how we create and deliver consistently
great products and brand experiences to our customers,” PayPal
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We have not yet
discussed how these plans may impact any existing jobs across
our product, technology and marketing teams.”  Corporate Bloat  Acquired by EBay in 2002, PayPal risks becoming “large”
and “lethargic” as newer payment processing providers -- which
are addressing the company’s weaknesses -- flood the market,
said Kerry Rice, an analyst at Needham & Co.  “You want to fight the corporate bloat,” Rice, based in
 San Francisco , said in an interview. “There are tons of people
that are out there innovating and starting new companies. You
have to become more nimble.”  PayPal is facing competition from startups such as Stripe
Inc., which also provides tools and services for sellers to
accept payments online. As alternatives emerge, PayPal will need
to work harder to retain merchants that have said the company’s
software takes too long to set up and that  customer service  is
lacking.  Brett Radler , chief executive officer of 86Serving.com
Inc., a restaurant-management services company that chose
Stripe’s payment processing services, said PayPal’s system took
as long as 10 hours.  Marcus became PayPal’s president after the company acquired
his mobile-payments startup, Zong, last year.  EBay Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe  said he chose
Marcus because he wanted to add “startup energy” to PayPal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  