-- Plantronics Sued by GN Netcom for Headset Market Monopoly
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-10-12T21:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/plantronics-sued-by-gn-netcom-for-headset-market-monopoly.html
Plantronics Inc. (PLT)  was accused of
monopolizing the market for the headsets used by telemarketers
and other call-center workers in a lawsuit filed by competitor
GN Netcom Inc.  GN Netcom claimed Plantronics convinced distributors to
sign agreements barring sales of competing headsets to large
customers that operate call centers.  “Plantronics actively polices their dealers to ensure
compliance and has threatened to terminate” distributors who
violate the agreements, GN Netcom said in its complaint, filed
today in U.S. District Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  GN Netcom is seeking a jury trial, unspecified damages and
court orders to block Plantronics from use of “exclusionary
agreements” and from taking action against dealers who carry GN
Netcom or other competing products, according to the complaint.  Plantronics dominates headset sales to call centers, with
75 percent of the U.S. market, GN Netcom claimed. For the 12
months ended March 31, Plantronics had net income of $109
million on sales of $713.4 million, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  GN Netcom, based in Nashua, New Hampshire, is a unit of  GN
Store Nord A/S (GN)  of Ballerup, Denmark, a maker of communications
gear. Plantronics is based in Santa Cruz,  California .  GN Store Nord rose 0.05 Danish kroner to 88.70 in trading
in Copenhagen today. Plantronics fell 30 cents to $34.13 in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  Plantronics spokeswoman Karen Auby didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is GN Netcom Inc., v. Plantronics Inc., U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  