-- Postal Service Woos Web Retailers With Same-Day Delivery Test
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/postal-service-to-test-same-day-delivery-in-san-francisco-market.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , struggling
to stem billions in losses as first-class mail usage declines,
plans to test a same-day delivery service that would help
Internet retailers ship their customers’ purchases more quickly.  During the trial of Metro Post, which begins in mid-
November in San Francisco, the postal service would deliver
packages during the evening that were received before 2 to 3
p.m., said Susan McGowan, a spokeswoman. She declined to provide
logistics or pricing details of the test, disclosed in  plans
filed  with the agency’s regulator yesterday.  In order to participate, companies must have at least 10
physical locations nationwide with at least one location in the
test market, she said. The  San Francisco  test may last as long
as a year, and there are plans to expand into additional cities
if it goes well, McGowan said.  “E-commerce is just growing, and this kind of a product
improves the shopping experience for everyone,” she said in a
telephone interview. “This helps us achieve our goals of
enhancing our package business and giving customers better
access and better service.”  The Postal Service is in talks with online retailers and
anticipates working with as many as 10 companies during the
trial. The agency must obtain approval from the Postal
Regulatory Commission before moving ahead, McGowan said.  “The product is likely to contribute to the financial
stability of the Postal Service, by generating more package
deliveries that do not currently move within the postal
system,” the agency said in its filing.  The post office, which may have lost as much as $15 billion
in the fiscal year through Sept. 30 is seeking to develop new
revenue streams and reduce costs.  The agency plans to cut $20 billion in yearly operating
expenses by 2015 through steps that include reducing its
workforce and closing processing plants. The agency said this
month it would offer $15,000 each to members of its biggest
union to retire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  