-- Power Links for Unbuilt Windmills Cost Consumers, TenneT Says
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-10-12T06:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/power-links-for-unbuilt-windmills-cost-consumers-tennet-says.html
German consumers are paying millions
of euros to link the national  power grid  to windmills in the
 North Sea  that haven’t yet been built, grid operator TenneT TSO
GmbH said.  TenneT, responsible for connecting offshore wind farms in
the North Sea to Germany’s grid, said the rules on wind-farm
development have forced it to build cables to turbines that
haven’t been built. The BorWin1 transformer station only has
turbines for about a third of its planned 400-megawatt capacity, 
said Lex Hartman, a member of the company’s management board.  “The grid operator has to build a connection, but
developers are not obliged to build afterwards,” Hartman said
in a phone interview. It costs more than 1 billion euros ($1.29
billion) to connect 1,000 megawatts, he said.  “In case of doubt the electricity consumer has to pay for
stranded investments,” Hartman said, predicting a
“considerable public dispute.”  The overspend on wind-farm grid connections comes at time
when German households and businesses are preparing to foot the
bill for the replacement of nuclear reactors with renewable
energy. The country will spend 20 billion euros next year on
renewables, Jochen Homann, head of the Bundesnetzagentur grid 
regulator, said in an Oct. 9 newspaper report.  Binding Planning  “It’s possible that billions of euros are invested in
vain,” Christian Rehtanz,  who heads the Institute of Energy
Systems, Energy Efficiency and Energy Economics at the Technical
University of Dortmund, said by phone. “Grid operators need a 
more binding planning of the wind-park projects.”  TenneT, whose power lines stretch from  Germany ’s North Sea
coast to the Austrian border south of Munich and serve about 20
million people, has committed to invest about 6 billion euros
linking 5,500 megawatts of offshore wind farms in Germany. It's 
currently building six high-voltage, direct-current facilities.  Under today’s rules, a wind-farm developer need only commit
10 million euros to a project before the grid operator is
obliged to provide a connection large enough to cope with the
project’s maximum size.  “It doesn’t work,” Hartman said. “At worst we have either 
platforms without windmills or windmills without platforms and 
if we have both we don’t have a grid to transport.”  TenneT will have enough capacity to connect 11,000
megawatts of  wind turbines  by 2022, while Hartman predicts only
7,000 megawatts will be built.  Germany’s federal government may change the regulation of
wind-farm links. A  draft bill  endorsed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s cabinet in August would allow another wind-farm
developer to use an existing connection that hasn’t been used.
German lawmakers are scheduled to vote in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  