-- Puerto Rico Debt Extends Slump Before Governor Vote: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/puerto-rico-debt-extends-slump-before-governor-vote-muni-credit.html
Debt of  Puerto Rico , with a  credit
rating  lower than any U.S. state, is in its deepest slide in 20
months, less than four weeks before elections that may unseat a
governor who championed cost cuts and trimmed budget deficits.  The commonwealth’s bonds, which are tax-exempt in all U.S.
states, are on pace to lose money for a  third straight month ,
the longest slump since January 2011,  Standard & Poor’s  indexes
show. The declines threaten to end a three-year span in which
the island beat the rest of the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond
market. The  extra yield  investors demand on 10-year Puerto Rico
revenue bonds over similarly rated general-obligation debt is
the highest in three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This is a pretty weak credit that needs growth to get
better and they’re not really experiencing it,” said Guy Davidson, who oversees $31 billion as director of muni
investments at AllianceBernstein LP in New York.  Governor  Luis Fortuno , a Republican who has cut the
island’s payrolls by 17 percent since 2009 to help close
spending gaps, was in a statistical tie with his main
challenger, Alejandro Garcia Padilla of the Popular Democratic
Party, in a poll released this week before the Nov. 6 election.  Trailing Market  Puerto Rico bonds have a Standard & Poor’s rating of BBB,
two levels above speculative grade. They have earned 5.2 percent
this year, less than 24 of 26 states in S&P’s index. The gain is
also below the 6.8 percent earned by the total market, which
Puerto Rico beat the past three years. The relatively high
yields on its debt have lured investors as  interest rates  sank
toward generational lows.  The island’s economy grew 0.9 percent in the year ending
June 30, the first expansion since 2006, according to
projections from the Puerto Rico Planning Board, which forecasts
growth of 1.1 percent in the year through June 2013. Puerto
Rico’s August jobless rate was  13.5 percent , the lowest since
2008, though still higher than any U.S. state, according to the
 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  Yields on 10-year Puerto Rico revenue bonds rated BBB were
as much as  1.01 percentage point  above 10-year general-
obligations with a similar grade this week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It’s the widest yield spread since June 2009.
Against AAA munis the spread is even larger, at about  2.14
percentage points , close to the highest since February.  ‘Weaker Metrics’  Individual buyers are avoiding Puerto Rico because of its
“weaker metrics,” such as debt load and deficits, said Mark Paris, who helps manage high-yield muni funds totaling $7.4
billion at Invesco Ltd. in New York, including Puerto Rico debt.  The commonwealth had $51.9 billion of net tax-supported
debt last year, or $14,004 per capita, about 10 times the U.S.
average, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Its pension assets were 6.8 percent of what it owes in
retirement payments as of June 30, 2011, according to the
commonwealth. In comparison,  Illinois  had a funding ratio of
about 43 percent in 2011, the lowest among U.S. states, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Juan Carlos Batlle, president of the Government Development
Bank for Puerto Rico, the commonwealth’s fiscal agent, said
strengthening the pension system will be the first priority for
Fortuno, 51, should he win re-election. Batlle, a gubernatorial
appointee, emphasized an improving economic trend, as shown by
the island’s falling jobless rate.  Deficit Battle  Fortuno balanced the budget for the year through June 2013
with $333 million of borrowing and $600 million of debt
restructuring that pushes principal and interest payments to
future years. That deficit was as high as $3.3 billion in 2009,
the year Fortuno took office.  In a poll released Oct. 9 by El Nuevo Dia, a Spanish-
language daily, Garcia Padilla led Fortuno 41 percent to 39
percent, with a three-percentage point margin of error.  Garcia Padilla, 41, a member of the commonwealth’s Senate,
has said he won’t raise income or business taxes, and he
promises to add 50,000 private-sector jobs within 18 months
through business-incentive programs.  “I really don’t think there’s really a lack of demand,”
Batlle said regarding the bond losses. “You probably see people
who may have invested a lot in the first six months of the year
and maybe are paring down to make space for new issues before
the end of the year.”  ‘Just Waiting’  For institutional investors, there hasn’t been a large
enough Puerto Rico sale to attract them, said Tom Spalding, who
helps manage $10 billion of munis in  Chicago  at Nuveen
Investments Inc. The last tax-exempt offer over $100 million was
a $589 million revenue-bond issued by Puerto Rico Public
Buildings Authority in June, Bloomberg data show.  “Usually for institutions, they need a large new issue in
order to really get the size they need and a price they need,”
Spalding said. “So they’re just waiting for the next large
issue.”  Paris, Davidson and Spalding said they plan to buy more
Puerto Rico debt if yield spreads widen further.  “Pretty soon it should get cheap enough so that we’ll use
it for our national funds,” Spalding said.  Investors are asking for more additional yield on a 30-year
Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority bond than when the security
priced in April, Bloomberg data show. The average yield in
trading yesterday was 4.89 percent, or about 2 percentage points
more than benchmark 30-year general obligations, up from about
1.6 percentage point April 12.  In trading yesterday, yields on 10-year benchmark munis
rated AAA were little changed at  1.66 percent , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The index touched 1.63 percent July 27, the
lowest since at least January 2009, when data collection began.  Following are pending sales:  New York ’s METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY is set to
issue as soon as this month $950 million of dedicated-tax
revenue bonds to refund debt sold in 2002, according to offering
documents. (Added Oct. 12)  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA is set to borrow $675 million of
general-obligation tax-revenue anticipation notes as soon as
next week, according to Moody’s Investors Service. (Added Oct.
11)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  