-- Rand Worst Emerging Currency as S&P Cuts South Africa’s Rating
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-10-12T17:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/rand-set-for-first-weekly-gain-in-five-as-trucker-strike-ends.html
The rand posted the biggest decline
among emerging-market currencies after Standard & Poor’s cut
South  Africa ’s credit rating by one level, saying mining
protests may incite social tension and pressure state spending.  The currency slipped 1.1 percent to 8.7598 per dollar by
7:42 p.m. in Johannesburg, reversing an earlier climb of as much
as 1 percent and trimming its advance this week to 0.3 percent.
Yields on benchmark 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 dropped seven
basis points to close at 6.74 percent before S&P’s announcement.  S&P lowered the rating to BBB with a negative outlook,
putting Africa’s biggest economy on the same level as  Brazil ,
 Mexico  and  Russia . Strikes in South Africa’s mining industry may
trigger uncertainty surrounding the ruling African National
Congress’ policy framework in the run-up to the 2014 election,
S&P said in a statement. Rising “social tensions” will also
boost spending pressures and reduce fiscal flexibility,
according to the ratings company.  The rating change is “absolutely a big deal,”  Mike
Schussler , chief economist at Economists.co.za, a Johannesburg-
based advisory service, said by mobile telephone. “The message
is very clear: you guys aren’t playing nice anymore and the
investors must be very careful with you.”  The rand rallied earlier today after the country’s truck
drivers’ unions signed a three-year wage agreement, ending a
strike that had led to fuel shortages, an employers’ body said.  Continuing strikes in the mining industry are having a
“significant” impact on an economy already struggling to cope
with  Europe ’s debt crisis, President Jacob Zuma said yesterday.  Foreign investors were net  buyers  of 1.1 billion rand ($127
million) of South African bonds yesterday, a second day of net
purchases following 4.6 billion rand of outflows in the previous
three trading days, according to  JSE Ltd. (JSE)  data.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility against the
dollar declined for a third day, dropping 15 basis points to
17.47 percent in New York, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  