-- RBS Says Santander Drops 1.7 Billion-Pound Purchase
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-10-13T12:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/rbs-says-santander-drops-1-7-billion-pound-purchase-of-branches.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, said  Spain ’s  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  pulled out of an agreement to buy 316 branches, a
deal that was valued at about 1.7 billion pounds ($2.7 billion).  RBS will seek a new way to dispose of the outlets, a step
that was required following the lender’s taxpayer-funded bailout,
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said yesterday in a
statement. Santander, based in  Madrid , said in a separate
statement that it withdrew from the transaction after delays in
its completion.  “That’s more likely to be an excuse,” Cormac Leech, a
senior banks analyst at  Liberum Capital  in  London , said today in
a phone interview. “It looks like Santander may have problems
elsewhere and they’re under more pressure to walk away.”  Santander’s decision to abandon the purchase coincides with
increasing regulatory pressure on Spanish banks to bolster
capital amid mounting real estate losses at home and pain from
the three-year-old euro-area sovereign debt crisis. For RBS, the
failure of the transaction might prompt it look to sell the
branches in an initial public as it did with its Direct Line
Insurance Group Plc unit, Leech said. RBS raised 787 million
pounds in an IPO of 30 percent of the unit on Oct. 11.  Branches for sale include locations in England and  Wales ,
as well as a business in  Scotland . The unit had a 186 million-
pound operating profit in this year’s first half and holds 21.7
billion pounds in customer deposits, RBS said.  Sale Accord  “Much of the heavy lifting associated with a transfer has
already been completed,” Hester said in the statement. “RBS
has worked hard to ensure it is substantially separate from our
U.K. branch network and corporate business and largely ready to
be taken on by a new owner.”  The sale also includes RBS’s National Westminster Bank
branch network in Scotland, which the lender purchased in 2000.
The bank sought to dispose of the branches to comply with a
 European Union  ruling after it received government bailout funds
during the global credit crisis.  Santander had agreed in 2010 to pay 350 million pounds more
than the branches’ net asset value when the deal was scheduled
to be completed, Edinburgh-based RBS said at the time. That
valued the business at about 1.7 billion pounds.  Since then, Santander, Spain’s biggest bank, has sought
ways to boost capital. The bank carried out an offering of as
much as $4.09 billion in shares of its Mexican unit Grupo
Financiero Santander Mexico SAB last month. Chairman  Emilio Botin  has said that the firm plans to list its biggest units
within the next five years.  Profit Expectations  “One of the reasons why Santander may have abandoned this
deal is because overall profit expectations for banks in the U.K.
aren’t as great as the market had forecast because of regulatory
pressure,” Inigo Lecubarri, who helps manage about $400 million
at Abaco Financials Fund in London, said today.  “Additionally, banks are being requested to boost their
capital all around the world, and Santander may find some
savings by pulling out of this deal at a very little cost.”  The companies originally sought to finish the transaction
by the end of 2011, according to Santander’s statement. That was
later extended to 2012’s fourth quarter, it said.  “Our guiding principle throughout this transaction has
been a seamless journey for customers -- which requires the
business to be delivered to Santander U.K. by RBS in a steady
state,” Santander U.K. CEO Ana Botin said in the statement.
“We have concluded that given delays, it is not possible to
complete this within a reasonable timeframe.”  Lower Valuation  The U.K. Treasury said in a statement that the deal is a
commercial matter for RBS and Santander.  “The government remains determined to promote greater
competition in the banking sector, in order to provide consumers
with better services, and a more diverse range of financial
products,” the Treasury said in an e-mailed statement. “We
have already made substantial achievements such as the sale of
 Northern Rock , and good progress is being made on the disposal
of Lloyds branches to the Co-operative Group.”  If RBS sells the branches in an IPO, Leech said the price
would probably be about 900 million to 1 billion pounds in the
current environment. He said that investors making that
assumption would trim about 2 percent off the bank’s current
market value when the London Stock Exchange opens on Monday.  “I expect the market to overreact and RBS to decline 3
percent to 4 percent on Monday on this news,” Leech said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  