-- Repealing Deductions Pays for 4% Tax Cuts, Study Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-10-13T13:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/repealing-deductions-pays-for-4-tax-cuts-study-says.html
Immediate repeal of some of the most
popular tax benefits would pay for only a 4 percent cut in U.S.
income tax rates, according to an estimate by Congress’s
nonpartisan scorekeeper that illustrates the mathematical and
political challenges of financing rate cuts by limiting tax
breaks.  The analysis by the Joint Committee on Taxation emphasizes
the difficult choices facing lawmakers as they balance the
benefits of rate cuts against the consequences of changing or
ending deductions, such as for mortgage interest and charitable
contributions. Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney
proposes a 20 percent income-tax rate cut and says he would pay
for it by limiting deductions, credits and exemptions.  While there are major differences between the assumptions
underlying Romney’s plan and the JCT study, the findings
emphasize shortcomings in Romney’s approach, said Daniel Shaviro, a tax law professor at New York University.  “There really is no serious dispute that the parameters of
their plan can’t be met,” Shaviro said. “It’s like saying
you’re going to drive from  Boston  to Los Angeles in 10 hours
without speeding. There’s just no way to make the numbers add
up.”  Broadening the Base  Still, there are some important distinctions between
Romney’s approach and the JCT analysis that make it difficult to
compare the 4 percent finding in the study with Romney’s pledge
of a 20 percent tax cut. Much of the base broadening in the
analysis covers the costs that Romney assumes as his starting
point and that lawmakers from both parties don’t want to pay
for. That means Romney could use the changes to deductions to
cut rates by more than 4 percent.  “This self-described ‘experiment’ says nothing about the
pro-growth tax reform proposed by  Mitt Romney ,” Andrea Saul, a
Romney spokeswoman, said in a statement yesterday. “It has
different assumptions and different revenue goals. It’s simply
irrelevant to any analysis of his plan.”  The estimate assumes that the George W. Bush-era tax cuts
expire Dec. 31 for all income levels, meaning that the starting
point for the analysis presumes a tax increase that neither
party supports. Thus, the top rate achieved under the analysis
would be 38.02 percent.  Repealing itemized deductions would generate $2.5 trillion
over the next decade. That’s known as broadening the tax base
because it increases the size of the pool of income that is
taxed. Lower rates reduce the pool of money available from
deductions, because they are less valuable.  Capital Gains Rates  In the JCT analysis, the base broadening covers the cost of
repealing the alternative minimum tax and extending provisions
of the child tax credit and earned income tax credit. The
approach assumes that capital gains would be taxed as ordinary
income, which under some analyses might cost the government
revenue.  The estimates are contained in an Oct. 11 letter from the
Joint Committee on Taxation to Senator Max Baucus of  Montana ,
the Democratic chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and
Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah , the panel’s top Republican. The
letter was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Thomas Barthold, chief of staff for the Joint Committee on
Taxation, described the estimate as an “experiment” that his
staff conducted and said it doesn’t represent all of the
possible broadening of the tax base.  Under this approach, many tax breaks wouldn’t be affected,
including the exclusion of employer-sponsored health insurance,
the earned income tax credit and the child tax credit.  “There are a significant number of other identified
individual income tax expenditures or other possible base-
broadening policies that I did not include in this experiment,”
Barthold wrote.  Tax Overhaul  Because of those omissions, the report doesn’t show that a
bipartisan tax overhaul is impossible, said a joint statement
former Republican Senators Alan Simpson and Pete Domenici and
Democrats Erskine Bowles and Alice Rivlin. The Bowles-Simpson
plan from 2010 estimated that a top rate of 23 percent was
achievable if all tax breaks were eliminated.  “Nothing in the JCT analysis changes our belief that it is
possible for tax reform to reduce rates and produce additional
revenues if policymakers are willing to make the tough choices
to eliminate or scale back tax expenditures,” said the joint
statement from the four, who have been working on plans that
would broaden the tax base, lower rates and raise more revenue
than an extension of current tax policies. “There is no
question that reforming the tax code will require making hard
and careful choices.”  23% Top Rate  In a blog post last night, the Committee for a Responsible
 Federal Budget  said the U.S. Treasury Department found in 2005
that eliminating all tax deductions and credits including the
health exclusion and retirement preferences would allow the top
rate to fall to 23 percent, while still dedicating about $1
trillion in revenue to deficit reduction this decade.  Two separate bipartisan plans, one by the co-chairs of
President  Barack Obama ’s fiscal commission, and the other called
the Domenici-Rivlin plan, proposed top rates between 28 percent
and 33 percent. The current tax code includes more than $1.1
trillion in tax expenditures -- credits, deductions and
loopholes -- that go mainly to higher earners, according to the
CRFB.  Mathematically Possible  President Barack Obama and Romney have been sparring over
whether Romney’s tax proposal is mathematically possible. Romney
says he can broaden the tax base and create enough economic
growth to offset his tax cuts. Obama maintains that Romney would
either raise middle-class taxes or increase the deficit.  “This JCT study is but one analysis of one hypothetical
tax reform option,” Antonia Ferrier, a spokeswoman for Hatch,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Those who seek to use the study
to kill tax reform efforts should be accountable for the defects
of the current system.”  In a speech this week, the Senate’s third-ranking Democrat,
Chuck Schumer of New York, questioned the priority that
Republicans are giving to rate reduction.  “Broadening the base as Republicans propose would not only
fail to cut the deficit, it also fails to reduce rates much,”
he said in a statement.  The report includes a set of tables that estimate how the
combination of tax-policy changes, including taxing capital
gains as ordinary income rather than at preferential rates,
would affect taxpayers in different income levels.  In 2015, taxpayers making between $75,000 and $100,000 a
year would see their federal taxes reduced by 0.8 percent.
Taxpayers making more than $1 million would pay 5.7 percent more
than they would otherwise.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  