-- Romney Says Biden in Denial Over Libya as Carney Offers Defense
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/romney-says-biden-in-libya-denial-as-carney-defends-white-house.html
Mitt Romney  accused Vice President
Joe Biden of “doubling down on denial” over the attack on the
U.S. consulate in Libya, as the White House defended its
response to the assault that killed a U.S. ambassador and three
other Americans.  Speaking yesterday to voters in Richmond,  Virginia , the
Republican presidential nominee chastised Biden for his defense
during this week’s debate of the administration’s actions.
Romney said the vice president’s argument contradicted sworn
testimony by  State Department officials.  “He’s doubling down on denial, and we need to understand
exactly what happened as opposed to just having people brush
this aside,” Romney said.  During the Oct. 11 debate, Biden said the White House
wasn’t told of a request for additional security at the mission
in Benghazi a month before the incident. “We did not know they
wanted more security,” Biden said.  State Department official Eric Nordstrom, who served as a
regional security officer in Tripoli until July, told a
congressional committee this week that he was turned down when
he requested that a 16-member security support team that was
scheduled to leave Libya in August be extended. Another
department official,  Charlene Lamb , deputy assistant secretary
for international programs, told the hearing that she had
refused the requests.  ‘Appropriately Discussed’  White House press secretary Jay Carney, repeatedly
questioned at yesterday’s regular briefing over Biden’s
statement, said pleas for more security are handled at the State
Department. Asked to clarify Biden’s comment about the
administration’s knowledge of the security request, Carney said
the vice president was only referring to himself and the
president.  Matters of staffing at U.S. consulates around the world are
“appropriately discussed and decided upon at the State
Department,” Carney said.  The dispute is part of an effort by Republicans to push
foreign policy to the forefront of a campaign that has been
largely about domestic economic issues. While polls show
President  Barack Obama  leading Romney on foreign policy issues,
Republicans see an opportunity to narrow that gap, pointing to
polls showing voters have grown less satisfied since the Sept.
11 Benghazi assault.  Evening Rally  Romney was campaigning across  Ohio , joining Ryan for an
evening rally in the central part of the state.  At the outdoor event in Lancaster, Ryan tied the conflicts
abroad to the struggling economy at home.  “When hotspots are growing abroad, the economy is not
growing here,” he told supporters, who filled the small town
square and surrounding streets.  Biden, meanwhile, traveled to Ryan’s home state to
reinforce the differences between the two parties on
 Afghanistan , abortion rights and taxes.  While Biden praised Ryan at the University of  Wisconsin  in
La Crosse as “a decent guy” and family man, he said the debate
left no doubt “we have a fundamentally different vision for
America, a fundamentally different value set.”  Obama Visit  Biden’s trip to Wisconsin follows a visit by Obama on Sept.
23, as the Democratic campaign seeks to ensure that it doesn’t
lose a reliably Democratic state to a Republican ticket that has
a native son as presidential nominee Mitt Romney’s running mate.
A CBS News/New York Times/Quinnipiac University poll conducted
Oct. 4-9 showed Obama ahead 50 percent to 47 percent, down from
51 percent to 45 percent the month before.  Romney praised the performance of his running mate in the
debate, with a dig at Biden’s reactions, which included eye-
rolling and chuckles as Ryan spoke.  “There was one person on stage last night who was
thoughtful and respectful, steady and poised,” he said. “The
kind of person you want to turn to in a crisis, and that was the
next vice president of the United States, Paul Ryan.”  Biden, seeking to repair damage done by Obama’s subdued
debate last week, struck an assertive tone last night as he
smirked and talked over the 42-year-old congressman. Ryan hit
back with statistics and a series of attacks on the
administration’s economic and international policies.  Post-Debate Analysis  Ryan declined to give any post-debate analysis to reporters
on the morning after as he and his family entered Josie’s, a
Lexington, Kentucky, restaurant, for breakfast.  “I feel great,” Ryan said.  Inside, seated with his wife and three children, the
Republican vice presidential nominee said he had anticipated
Biden’s aggressive performance.  The focus of both sides now turns to the next presidential
debate, scheduled for Oct. 16 in Hempstead, New York. Obama is
spending the weekend and early next week preparing in
Williamsburg, Virginia, while Romney plans to campaign in Ohio
with Ryan before heading home to  Massachusetts  for his own
practice sessions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Richmond, Virginia at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;  Hans Nichols  in La Crosse, Wisconsin, at
   hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  