-- Rosatom Interested in Co-Funding $10 Billion CEZ Nuclear Project
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-10-12T10:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/rosatom-interested-in-co-funding-10-billion-cez-nuclear-project.html
Rosatom Corp.,  Russia ’s state-run
nuclear company, is interested in co-financing the $10 billion
construction of two reactors at the Czech Temelin power plant
after bidding to lead building work on the  CEZ AS (CEZ)  development.  “We would be able to finance 100 percent of this project
but we understand that’s not possible,” Rosatom Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Kirill Komarov said. “I don’t think CEZ would
agree to that. We are ready to become a minority shareholder.”  A Rosatom-led Russian and Czech group is competing against
Westinghouse Electric Corp. after  France ’s  Areva SA (AREVA)  was excluded
from bidding last week for failing to meet legal and commercial
conditions. Areva, the largest supplier of nuclear fuel and
services, is appealing the decision. CEZ aims to choose a winner
by mid-2013 and sign a final contract by the end of the year.  CEZ is drawing up a list of possible financial partners and
may hold a separate tender for an investor once the supplier is
chosen, according to Chief Executive Officer Daniel Benes.  Rosatom hasn’t yet been contacted to discuss any financial
participation, Komarov said today in Prague. “I don’t think
it’s because CEZ doesn’t want us,” he said. “It’s because CEZ
wants to run both tenders correctly and transparently.”  While Komarov hasn’t ruled out cooperating with Areva, CEZ
would need to allow the Russian company to alter the list of
subcontractors that was submitted with its bid, he said.  “We have very good experience cooperating with Areva,” he
said. Rosatom’s business with the French company is worth
several hundred million euros a year, Komarov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  