-- Saints’ Players in Bounty Case Appeal Latest Goodell Suspensions
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-12T16:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/saints-players-in-bounty-case-appeal-latest-goodell-suspensions.html
Jonathan Vilma and three other
National Football League players appealed the latest suspensions
handed down by Commissioner  Roger Goodell  in the New Orleans
Saints’ bounty scandal, imposed after an arbitrator threw out
his original rulings.  Vilma, whose full-season suspension was kept intact by
Goodell on Oct. 9; free-agent defensive end Anthony Hargrove;
Saints defensive end Will Smith; and Cleveland Browns linebacker
 Scott Fujita  appealed their latest bans, NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an e-mail.  Arbitrators said Goodell overstepped his bounds by
punishing the players for money they received outside their
contracts, while upholding his ability to enact punishment for
trying to injure opponents.  Goodell re-imposed a season ban on Vilma, a Saints
linebacker. He also reduced Hargrove’s suspension by one game to
seven, cut Smith’s ban in half to four games and trimmed the
suspension of Fujita to one game from three.  The players today asked Goodell to step aside as the appeal
arbitrator under the belief that he cannot rule impartially, the
Associated Press reported. Aiello declined to comment on the
substance of the appeals notices.  Vilma, who hasn’t played this season due to injury, is
planning to take the field Oct. 21 when the Saints (1-4) visit
the Tampa Bay Buccaneers as his appeal is pending, AP said,
citing people who were familiar with the situation. An e-mail
seeking comment from Greg Bensel, a spokesman for the Saints,
wasn’t immediately returned.  The NFL said about two dozen Saints players, led by former
defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams , paid each other as much as
$1,500 for targeting opponents such as Super Bowl-winning
quarterbacks Kurt Warner and  Brett Favre  from 2009 to 2011.  Coach  Sean Payton  was barred for a year and Williams was
suspended indefinitely. Mickey Loomis, the Saints’ general
manager, received an eight-game suspension. Those penalties were
allowed to stand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  