-- Samsung, LG, North Face: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-12T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/samsung-lg-north-face-intellectual-property.html
Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co., the world’s
largest mobile-phone maker, won its bid to continue selling its
newest Galaxy Nexus smartphone in the U.S. while it battles
patent-infringement claims filed by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit yesterday
granted Samsung’s request to lift a lower court’s ban on sales.
Samsung wants to continue selling the phone while it challenges
a federal judge’s June 29 ruling that Apple was likely to win
its suit claiming the Galaxy Nexus infringed four patents and
that sales were hurting Apple’s business in the meantime.  The case is part of a global battle between the two biggest
makers of mobile phones that surf the Web, play video games and
do most other functions of a computer.  Apple argued that it’s important to keep the Galaxy Nexus
out of the U.S. market now because most Americans haven’t yet
switched to smartphones, and a product that copies Apple’s
features could steal customers from its iPhone. A  jury trial  on
the patent claims isn’t scheduled until March 2014, according to
the court docket.  A feature in the Nexus phone that aids data searches was an
issue in yesterday’s opinion. The appeals court said the
district court abused its discretion by deciding that Apple
would suffer harm because of the feature. The patent-holder
needs to show “that the infringing feature drives consumer
demand for the accused product,” and Apple presented
“limited” evidence of such a link, the appeals court said.  Apple claims the Galaxy Nexus infringes patents that cover
the way the iPhone’s voice program, Siri, searches for
information, its slide-to-unlock function, an automatic
recognition of phone numbers or e-mail addresses and a word-
suggestion feature, according to the filing. Apple was ordered
to post a $95.6 million bond to cover any losses incurred by
Samsung should the case end in Samsung’s favor.  Samsung, which makes other phone models that aren’t
affected by the order, said in filings that Apple has been
sending “menacing” letters to Samsung customers and “engaged
in a campaign of litigation around the world against the largest
sellers of Android devices.”  Android, owned by  Google (GOOG)  Inc. and distributed for free to
bolster Google’s advertising business, is the most popular
platform for mobile phones.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-1507,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-
630, U.S. District Court for the District of California (San
Jose).  LG Said to Make New Google Nexus Phone for October Unveiling  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  is developing a Nexus smartphone for
Google Inc., becoming the third manufacturer to build phones for
the U.S. company, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  The device, to be shown this month, is based on LG’s
Optimus G model, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the project isn’t public.  For LG, its first Nexus project would deepen a partnership
with Google as the Seoul-based company tries to compete with
Samsung Electronics Co. Google has previously developed phones
with Samsung and  HTC Corp. (2498)  to help maintain the dominance of its
mobile operating system against Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  Samsung has sold about 500,000 Nexus S phones in the U.S.
as of June 30, according to court documents filed in California
as part of a  patent dispute  with Apple over devices including
the Nexus.  Jinny Lee, a Seoul-based spokeswoman for LG, and Shari Yoder Doherty, a spokeswoman for Google, declined to comment.  LG’s Optimus G, which went on sale in South Korea last
month, has a 4.7-inch screen and runs on a processor made by
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  for fourth-generation Long Term Evolution, or LTE,
networks offering faster Internet connections.  Technology blogs, including BGR, have posted what they say
are leaked photos of the new Nexus phone with LG’s logo.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  North Face Seeks Contempt Finding for ‘Butt Face’ Products  VF Corp. (VFC) ’s North Face unit is back in court with the
Missouri pharmacy it sued over a series of “South Butt”
t-shirt designs.  Williams Pharmacy Inc. violated a consent order entered
into in April 2010, according to filings in federal court in  St.
Louis . At that time, the pharmacy agreed to stop using marks
that were “confusingly similar” to the clothing company’s.  The original suit was filed in December 2009, with North
Face objecting to the “South Butt” t-shirts.  In an Oct. 10 order, U.S. District Judge Rodney W. Sippel
ordered the parties to present briefs addressing whether the
pharmacy’s new “Butt Face” designs are a close enough
imitation of North Face’s to justify a finding of contempt.  The defendants didn’t dispute the fact that within two days
of signing the consent order, they formed a new company -- Why
Climb Mountains -- and began selling  products marked with “The
Butt Face,” Sippel said.  Sippel said that he will have to evaluate North Face’s
claims to damages from the sale of the “Butt Face” merchandise
in light of the fact that “the plaintiff chose to sit on its
rights for some time after discovering defendants’ conduct.”  He ordered the parties “to talk about settlement in good
faith when they receive this order” and to “stop smiling and
start exploring a sensible resolution to this dispute.”  The case is North Face Apparel v. Williams Pharmacy, 09-cv-
02029, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St.
Louis).  GM Applies for Trademark Registration for ‘Turbo-Fire’ Term  General Motors Co. (GM) , the maker of Chevrolet, Buick and
Cadillac cars, applied to register “Turbo-Fire” as a
trademark.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office , the automaker filed its application in August and said
it will use the mark with decals.  Currently, there is one “Turbo-Fire” trademark,
registered in August 2010 to a Florida-based game company. The
mark, which belongs to Datel Design & Development Co., is used
with handheld units for playing electronic games, according to
the registration.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  LiveUniverse Hit with $6.6 Million Judgment in Song Lyric Case  Music publishers including Warner Music Group won a $6.6
million judgment in a copyright lawsuit against song-lyrics
websites run by Brad Greenspan, one of the developers of the
MySpace online social network  U.S. District Judge George H. Wu in  Los Angeles  filed an
order Oct. 9 requiring the operator of LiveUniverse Inc. to pay
damages of $12,500 for each of 528 songs that were infringed.
Additionally, Wu said he will award litigation costs and
attorney fees to the music companies whose lyrics were
infringed.  “Defendants have willfully infringed upon plaintiffs’
copyrights, even after being sanctioned, both by this court and
Magistrate Judge Abrams,” Wu said in his default judgment
order. “Their blatant disregard for the civil justice system
favors a substantial damages award.”  He also issued a permanent injunction barring Greenspan
from offering song lyrics online without licenses from copyright
holders.  Greenspan, of West Hollywood, California, and his lawyer,
Andrew Kislik, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking
comment on the ruling.  The copyright infringement suit was filed in August 2009.
The music publishers said the sole purpose of the LiveUniverse
websites was “to provide consumers with various kinds of access
to the lyrics from copyright-protected musical compositions.”  The publishers had sought statutory damages of $100,000 for
each infringed song. Among the songs infringed were Buddy
Holly’s “Another Day,” Greg Allman’s “It’s Not My Cross to
Bear” and  James Brown ’s “Papa’s Got a Brand New Bag.”  The case is PeerMusic III Ltd v. LiveUniverse Inc., 09-cv-
06160, U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Bridgestone Scientist Wins Dismissal of Trade Secret Case  All charges were dismissed in a  trade-secrets  case
involving tires at a  Bridgestone Corp. (5108)  research facility in
Akron,  Ohio .  In an order filed this week, U.S. District Judge James S.
Gwin dismissed the indictment against Xiaorong Wang, who was a
research scientist at the center from May 1995 until he was
fired in April 2010. Wang was indicted for trade secret
misappropriation in August.  He was accused of making a false statement to investigators
from the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation that he didn’t plan to
leave the country, when he was planning to accept a job at a
university in China, according to court documents.  The U.S. government also claimed Wang lied about having
approached anyone in China regarding setting up a research
facility at that university, and about denying that he was asked
to provide information from Tokyo-based Bridgestone.  Gwin said in a Sept. 26 order that the court found
insufficient evidence to sustain a conviction on eight counts in
the indictment for trade secret theft. He also found the
government failed to present enough evidence that Wang knew that
a theft of trade secrets would injure their owner.  The case is U.S. v. Wang, 12-cr-000380, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Ohio (Akron).  IP Moves  Former UMG Deputy General Counsel Lands at Steptoe & Johnson  Steptoe & Johnson LLP hired Harvey Geller for its
 intellectual property  group, the Washington-based firm said in a 
statement  yesterday.  He joins the firm from Universal Music Group Inc., where he
was deputy general counsel and senior vice president of business
and legal affairs until May. His area of expertise is copyright,
and he has litigated cases involving user-generated content and
inducement of copyright infringement.  Geller  has an undergraduate degree from California State
University Northridge and a law degree from Loyola Law School.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  