-- Sanofi Aims to Add Second-Generation Lemtrada to Pipeline
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-10-12T17:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/sanofi-aims-to-add-second-generation-lemtrada-to-pipeline.html
Sanofi (SAN)  plans to develop a new
version of the experimental therapy Lemtrada as the French
drugmaker seeks to expand the multiple sclerosis business it’s
built since the purchase of Genzyme Corp.  “We have a next-generation Lemtrada,” David Meeker, the
chief executive officer of Sanofi’s Genzyme unit, said in an
interview yesterday in Lyon,  France , at the annual conference of
the  European Committee for Treatment and Research of Multiple
Sclerosis . “It’s getting ready to enter the clinic.” He
declined to be more specific.  Lemtrada, also known as alemtuzumab, is a so-called
monoclonal antibody administered to patients through infusions
in two cycles annually. Late-stage clinical trials showed the
drug slowed the progression of disability though it also led to
infections and an autoimmune thyroid-related side effect in some
patients.  Adding a new version of Lemtrada, a drug it gained in
buying Genzyme last year, would help Paris-based Sanofi build
the MS business. Last month, Sanofi won U.S. backing to sell the
pill Aubagio, its first MS therapy. The company is counting on
new drugs to help offset revenue losses from generic competition
to best-sellers including the blood thinner Plavix.  The next-generation Lemtrada “won’t be a me-too,” Michael Panzara, Genzyme’s therapeutic area head for MS, immune diseases
and neurology, said in a separate interview in Lyon today. With
a new version, the company aims to preserve or enhance the
drug’s effectiveness and improve safety, he said.  ‘Actively Looking’  The new version of Lemtrada also may be tested for other
immune diseases, Panzara said. Genzyme has other MS compounds in
development and is also “actively looking outside” the company
for new therapies, he added.  Sanofi is “on track” to soon file Lemtrada for approval
in the U.S., Panzara said. The  Food and Drug Administration 
 refused to accept  the initial application, and Sanofi said Aug.
27 it would resubmit the request in a new format. Lemtrada loses
patent protection in the U.S. in 2017.  Sanofi gained experience in multiple sclerosis by selling
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Copaxone in past years, an
agreement that is now terminated. The Copaxone sales teams,
which were outside the U.S., have been switched to Genzyme,
Meeker said. In the U.S., Genzyme recently added about 200
people in areas such as sales, marketing and reimbursement
teams, Bill Sibold, Genzyme’s head of MS, said in an interview.  Aubagio’s introduction in the U.S. “is going as
expected,” Sibold said. “We are very pleased with the results.
So far we’ve had very favorable reception from the community.”  Sanofi’s Portfolio  Aubagio is an oral therapy. Lemtrada is administered
through infusions for five consecutive days when they begin the
treatment and for another three days 12 months later. Patients
probably will use Aubagio in the earlier phases of the disease,
while Lemtrada is more likely to be used at a more advanced
stage, neurologists say.  Sanofi has “a portfolio to offer, and in my opinion they
can offer it for the whole spectrum of MS patients, therefore
they are interesting,”  Heinz Wiendl , director of the neurology
department at the University of Muenster in  Germany , said in an
interview. Aubagio and Lemtrada “may not become blockbusters,
but they will gain their space in MS.” Wiendl has received
consulting fees and grants from Sanofi,  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  and
other drugmakers.  The market for MS drugs will grow to $19.6 billion annually
by 2022 from $13.8 billion at present, Ravi Mehrotra and other
Credit Suisse analysts forecast in an Oct. 8 note.  Gilenya, BG-12  Aubagio and Lemtrada will have to make inroads in a market
flooded by new products, such as Novartis AG’s pill Gilenya and
Biogen’s BG-12, which is awaiting a decision from U.S.
regulators this year.  “We will compete fine with BG-12,” Meeker said. Aubagio
also will be “competing well” with older, injectable therapies
such as Merck KGaA’s Rebif, he said. Results from a late-stage
Aubagio trial, dubbed TOWER, were presented at ECTRIMS today.  Multiple sclerosis  is caused by an abnormal immune response
that attacks the protective covering that surrounds nerve cells
in the brain and spinal cord. The assault stops nerve cells from
sending signals, sapping patients’ energy, blurring their vision
and slowly robbing them of mobility, balance and coordination.  Sanofi Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher spent $20.1
billion to buy Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme. After the
purchase, he folded Aubagio, Sanofi’s own MS therapy, into
Genzyme to build an MS franchise.  This year’s ECTRIMS conference “is the first time we are
under one banner,” Sibold said. “Before there was a Sanofi
booth and a Genzyme one. When you walk in the display area, we
are as prominent as any other company. We are a player now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  