-- SAS to ‘Turn Every Stone’ in Search for Cost Cuts as Loss Looms
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-10-12T12:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/sas-to-turn-every-stone-in-search-for-cost-cuts-as-loss-looms.html
SAS Group (SAS)  said it will intensify
efforts to cut costs as the Nordic region’s largest airline
battles to avert a fifth straight annual loss.  SAS  fell  as much as 5.8 percent in  Stockholm  after investor
relations chief Sture Stoelen said that while a savings program
is “showing results,” additional measures are required.  “We’re not happy with our earnings,” Stoelen said in a
telephone interview. “The high oil price and continued intense
competition is forcing us to continue to turn every stone.”  SAS, which is part-owned by the Swedish, Norwegian and
Danish states, hasn’t made an annual  profit  since 2007 as fuel
costs crimp margins and rivals including Norwegian Air Shuttle
ASA win market share. The company has cut about 300 office jobs
in a push to reduce expenses by as much as 5 percent and boost
earnings by 5 billion kronor ($747 million) in 2012 and 2013.  SAS traded down 1.4 percent at 6.85 kronor as of 2:01 p.m.
local time. The shares has fallen 14 percent this year, valuing
the owner of Scandinavian Airlines at 2.27 billion kronor.  Chief Executive Officer Rickard Gustafson said in an
interview on Aug. 8 that SAS may cut more jobs. He has declined
to forecast whether the company will make a profit this year.  Pension Concern  Stockholm-based SAS is also talking with unions about
changing pension terms to reduce the size of an equity
revaluation it must make before Nov. 1 next year, Stoelen said.
SAS will have to write down almost all of its 12 billion kronor
of equity unless pension agreements are changed before then.  “We’re looking at different solutions like new pension and
early retirement terms,” he said.  SAS would be in a “very difficult situation” in terms of
how it would be viewed by financial partners should its equity
be cut to zero, said Jacob Pedersen, an analyst at Sydbank A/S
in Aabenraa,  Denmark , with an “underweight” rating on the stock.  The carrier would probably be forced to raise money by
issuing new shares he said.  SAS is still “collecting information” from potential
buyers of its ground services operations, which employ about
6,000 workers, Stoelen said, reiterating comments from Sept. 27.
SAS still hasn’t made a decision on whether to sale, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  