-- Scene Last Night: Swizz Beatz, Michael Moore, Estelle
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-10-12T14:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/scene-last-night-swizz-beatz-michael-moore-estelle.html
When Estelle performed “American
Boy” last night at the 27th annual gala of the  New York  Police
& Fire Widows’ & Children’s Benefit  Fund , she had salutes for
the men in uniform.  Those with a front-row view at the Park Avenue Armory
included honoree Bob Benmosche, chief executive of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)   “This organization is an icon of what Americans can do
when they have the freedom to act,” Benmosche said. “That’s
what the people who serve our country and know they may lose
their lives count on, that you’ll be here for their families.”  The event raised more than $2.2 million with help from Mark Messier, a special assistant to the president and general
manager of the  New York Rangers , who donated items in a live
auction. A fishing trip at Runaway Hill Inn on Harbour Island in
the Bahamas went for $15,000, while a night in “exclusive Suite
200” at Madison Square Garden to watch a Rangers game went for
$12,000.  DMC Rap  When you’re at a gala at the Plaza Hotel and the rapper DMC
hands you a postcard about a song of his, you hold on to it and
look it up.  In “Attention Please,” available on YouTube, he rhymes,
“I know that life is full of sorrow, set a good example for the
kids to follow.” Pauley Perrette, an actress on the television
show “NCIS,” sings beside him.  “We wanted to bring attention to the most important thing,
which is making sure everyone in the world is OK,” DMC, also
known as Darryl McDaniels, said.  McDaniels was on hand to emcee a gala for Children’s
Rights, a nonprofit that deploys legal resources to reform child
welfare systems in the U.S.  “For children in foster care who are abused, this
organization fights for them the way a mother and father should
fight for their own,” McDaniels said.  A few minutes later, Nick Cannon arrived without his wife,
 Mariah Carey .  “Children teach us,” Cannon, a chairman of the gala, said
after an embrace from the rapper Bow Wow (Shad Gregory Moss).
“Especially with my own children, you see yourself, you see the
purity.”  The entrepreneur, artist, and producer Swizz Beatz also
attended without his wife,  Alicia Keys . Instead his companion as
he accepted an award was a 4-year-old named Rocco, with whom he
recorded a YouTube video to promote the benefit.  His advice for Rocco: “The sky is not the limit, it’s just
the view,” he said. “Reach high and never give up.”  “I love you,” Rocco replied.  Film Finders  The inner workings of the New York Film Festival were
revealed on Oct. 10 at a tribute to its departing director of 25
years, Richard Pena.  In Cannes, Pena summoned members of the selection committee
for 6:45 a.m. breakfast meetings, said writer and editor Joan
Juliet Buck, who served on the committee.  By crunch time in August, Buck recalled, they would gather
in the frigid Walter Reade Theater for six hours of film
viewing, fueled only by the sweets at the concession stand. Then
they’d go to Pena’s office to watch six more hours of
videotapes, after which they’d be sent home with a movie to
watch overnight.  “The effect of this was that your dreams were not your
own,” Buck said.  Documentarian  Michael Moore  recalled driving from Flint,
 Michigan , to New York to drop off his first film, “Roger and
Me” with the selection committee.  “When I came back to pick up the film, they were very
friendly,” Moore said. Soon he learned the film would play in
the festival. “It changed my life,” Moore said. “I got to
have a career.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater, Richard
Vines on dining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  