-- Schaeuble Says Europe’s Partners See Crisis-Fight Progress
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-10-12T09:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/schaeuble-says-europe-s-partners-see-crisis-fighting-progress.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said finance chiefs from around the world meeting in
 Tokyo  this week have acknowledged that  Europe  has made
“significant progress” in overcoming the crisis of confidence
in the euro.  “This time there is a much more positive underlying
sentiment” compared with earlier meetings, Schaeuble said today
at a briefing with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann in Tokyo,
which is hosting the annual  International Monetary Fund  and
World Bank meetings. European participants at the gathering have
agreed that “we explain very precisely and openly what we’re
doing, what we’ve achieved and what progress we’ve made.”  European countries are standing by their commitments to
reduce fiscal deficits, Schaeuble said, citing a 50 percent
reduction in the euro region’s fiscal shortfall since 2009, to
3.2 percent of the area’s gross domestic product.  Europe is on a “much, more promising path,” U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday. Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  described the mood toward the region as
one of “cautious optimism because it’s in a better place now.”  Europe’s strains are still the central challenge facing IMF
members as they gather in  Japan . The Washington-based lender
said this week that failure to remedy them was contributing to
an “alarmingly high” risk of a steeper slowdown in the world
economy, already on course to expand this year by the least
since the 2009 recession.  ‘Misunderstandings’  Europe must avoid raising false expectations and
“misunderstandings” that can trigger disappointment, Schaeuble
said, pointing to the reduction of Spain’s debt rating to one
level above junk by Standard & Poor’s this week as an example.
The rating company cited euro-region peers’ backtracking on a
pledge to severe the link between the sovereign and its banks as
 Spain  considers a second bailout.  Spain was lowered two levels to BBB- from BBB+, New York-
based S&P said in a statement on Oct. 10. S&P assigned a
negative outlook to the nation’s long-term rating and cut the
short-term sovereign level to A-3 from A-2.  Germany ,  Finland  and the Netherlands, the euro area
countries with the highest credit ratings, on Sept. 25 said they
rejected the use of bailout funds to deal with legacy debts such
as those of Spanish banks. The joint position doesn’t contradict
a pledge made by euro region leaders at a June summit, a Finnish
official said the following day, after Spanish bonds dropped.  Tackling Causes  Schaeuble said today that to overcome government debt
problems around the world and return to sustainable economic
growth, it’s “decisive” to work on the causes and not take
short-term steps that contradict medium-term goals.  IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde today reiterated
that  Greece  needs more time to meet its budget targets as part
of its bailout agreement.  “At yesterday’s talks, at least there’s been a lot of
consent to do what’s been decided in principle again and again
since 2008, that is that we have to reduce too-high government
debt and mustn’t create ever more liquidity globally,”
Schaeuble said. “That’s fundamentally understood.”  Weidmann, who is also a member of the European Central
Bank’s Governing Council, said an extension of the Greek program
would generate higher financing needs. He warned governments not
to rely on the ECB to solve the debt turmoil, saying monetary
policy is “no secret medicine.”  On a controversy over a redistribution of  voting rights  at
the IMF, Schaeuble insisted that the openness of an economy
should be considered when deciding on the voting power of
countries, a criterion that would work to Europe’s advantage.  While emerging nations such as China and  South Korea  want
the voting formula to better reflect the size of their
economies, Schaeuble said that while “we’re ready to make our
contribution, the component of openness can’t be left out
completely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Tokyo at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  