-- Serb Dinar Hits 5-Month High on Rising Credit, Risk Appetite
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-10-12T14:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/serb-dinar-reaches-5-month-high-on-rising-credit-risk-appetite.html
Serbia’s dinar strengthened to its
highest level in five months as banks step up credit activity
backed by government subsidies amid increased investor appetite
for the currency.  The dinar gained 2.4 percent on the day, to trade at
111.9975 to the euro at 3:56 p.m. in Belgrade, its biggest daily
advance since Dec. 8, 2008, Bloomberg data show. The currency
traded at its highest level since May 4 this year.  “It’s a mix of reasons, including domestic credit activity
and one analyst recommendation this week,” said Ljiljana Grubic, analyst at the Belgrade-based Raiffeisenbank AD. “Many
funds which had been inactive during the summer now need to meet
their targets and have been looking for markets that offer
decent profit.”  Societe Generale said two days ago that the outlook for the
dinar is improving and issued a “sell” recommendation at 114
dinars to the euro.  With today’s gains, the dinar is the world’s best
performing currency this month, gaining 3 percent against the
euro, Bloomberg data show. It is still 4.45 percent weaker than
in January.  “It is obviously difficult to attach precise timing to the
turnaround point; our broad view is that we are roughly half way
down the appreciation phase,” Moscow-based VTB Capital analysts
wrote in a note to clients, adding that the dinar rally partly
reflected an improvement in investors’  appetite for risk.  The government will offer 10 billion dinar ($115.73
million) of three-year bonds on Oct. 16 and a further 10 billion
dinar of 53-week Treasury bills on Oct. 23.  The National Bank of Serbia has sold 1.4 billion euros
($1.8 billion) this year to slow the decline in the dinar and
central bank Vice-Governor Veselin Pjescic said on Oct. 10 the
impact of the currency’s depreciation was fading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  