-- Seven West Tempts Buyout on Advertising Rebound: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-10-12T07:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/seven-west-tempts-buyout-on-advertising-rebound-real-m-a.html
No television broadcaster in the
developed Asia-Pacific region is tempting its owners with a
cheaper buyout opportunity than  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM)   Seven West, which beams the TV drama “Downton Abbey” to
Australian homes, operates a  web portal  with Yahoo! Inc. and
publishes Men’s Health magazine locally, has fallen 57 percent
this year as investors worried about its debt amid a slowdown in
advertising sales. The stock traded yesterday at 3.9 times
earnings, less than any media company in the region with a
market value of more than $100 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s a price that may compel Perth-based Seven West’s
billionaire chairman  Kerry Stokes , who yesterday agreed to sell
another media asset, to attempt a takeover, BBY Ltd. said.
Growing audiences will allow Seven West to boost revenue when
advertising rates recover in 2014, estimates  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia . Stokes and co-investor  KKR & Co. (KKR)  could offer a
premium of 31 percent for the $1.3 billion company and still
generate a 31 percent return on their investment in two years,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “The time to buy them is when everyone hates them,” said
Tim Montague-Jones, an analyst at Morningstar Inc. in Sydney.
“They own leading assets, and when conditions do turn they will
get a disproportionate share of the extra revenue that flows
into the industry. This sector, especially TV, turns on a
dime.”  ‘X-Factor’ Show  Stokes owns 68 percent of  Seven Group Holdings Ltd. (SVW) , which
owns 31 percent of Seven West, according to the companies’ 2012
annual reports. Simon Francis, a Sydney-based spokesman for both
companies, didn’t return calls seeking comment on a possible
buyout.  Ian Smith , an Adelaide-based spokesman for KKR, declined
to comment on speculation of a buyout.  “Our market leadership and current profitability are not
reflected in our share price,” Stokes said in a letter to
shareholders in Seven West’s annual report, released yesterday.
The mismatch “is a primary concern,” he said.  The shares rose 0.8 percent to A$1.30 at the close in
Sydney today.  Seven West, Australia’s biggest media company, was formed
in April 2011 when West Australian Newspapers Holdings Ltd.
acquired Seven Media Group from Stokes and KKR. The buyout firm
owns at least 8.5 percent of Seven West, the annual report
shows.  Seven West owns the 180-year-old West Australian, Perth’s
only daily newspaper, and publishes more than 25 magazines,
according to its website. Still, more than half of its A$1.9
billion ($2 billion) in revenue last year came from advertising
around TV programs including “The X Factor” and Australian
drama “Home and Away,” data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Discounted Advertising  A slowdown in advertising demand has hit profits as
broadcasters including Seven cut rates, according to Fraser McLeish, a Sydney-based analyst at RBS. Stokes and KKR could
make an “opportunistic” bid for Seven West after stock
investors overreacted to the downturn, he said.  In the year ended June 30, operating income at  Australia ’s
most-watched free-to-air broadcaster dropped 14 percent to A$473
million, according to company filings that make a comparable
year-ago comparison. Earnings from the television unit fell 15
percent.  “As soon as demand picks up, they’ll be able to rein in
those discounts, and because Seven’s ratings are so solid, the
advertisers are going to want to be on Seven,” McLeish said.
“It’s about having good programming that’s producing solid
ratings.”  A recovery could begin as soon as next year, he said.  Advertising Slump  Weak demand for advertising followed a consumer spending
slump in Australia after the central bank raised its benchmark
 interest rates  to 4.75 percent in 2010, the highest in the
developed world, pushing up the savings rate. The  Reserve Bank 
of Australia began  cutting rates  last November, lowering the
benchmark to 3.25 percent on Oct. 2.  Swap traders currently expect rates to be cut again next
month to 3 percent, a level that would match the record low
reached during the global financial crisis in early 2009.  “Advertising runs entirely on  consumer confidence ,”
Harold Mitchell, executive chairman of buyer Aegis Media
Australia, said in a phone interview. “Once confidence returns,
which it will, advertising will boom again.”  TV channels owned by Seven West, which has the free-to-air
broadcasting rights for Australian Football League matches until
2016, had a combined market share of 24.6 percent in the
nation’s five biggest cities through September, up from 22.7
percent at the start of the year, according to the  most recent
survey  by Oztam Pty, the country’s official provider of TV
viewing data.  Gina Rinehart  Second-ranked Nine Entertainment Co., which is owned by CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. funds, is in talks with its creditors to
restructure A$2.8 billion of debt.  Shares of  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN)  -- part owned by  Gina Rinehart ,  Asia ’s richest woman, billionaire  James Packer  and
 Lachlan Murdoch ,  Rupert Murdoch ’s son -- fell to a  record low 
last month. The third-most watched channel’s chief programmer,
David Mott, quit in August after new shows flopped.  Both Nine and Ten, which like Seven take their name from
their original programming frequency, have lost ground in the
ratings to Seven West, Oztam’s data show.  “It’s almost impossible to turn a performance around
quickly,” said Mitchell at Aegis Media. “Seven has been laying
down a platform of audience development for almost a decade and
they have a leadership position. If they continue to invest in
programming and if Nine fails to solve their ownership position,
Seven will get even bigger.”  Debt Worries  Seven West’s debt has weighed on its share price, said
Alice Bennett, an analyst at Sydney-based Commonwealth Bank.
Adjusted for a capital raising in August, the company’s net debt
stood at A$1.4 billion, Seven West said on Aug. 22. The company
said in July that the average tenor of its debt was about three
years.  The debt is unlikely to be a problem without a
“substantial slowdown” in advertising, and the borrowings
instead may help propel the business when advertising demand
picks up in 2014, Bennett said.  “Financial leverage works both ways,” she said in a phone
interview. “When the market turns, Seven West will have strong
operating and financial leverage combined.”  After falling to its lowest ever price-earnings multiple
last month, Seven West closed yesterday at A$1.29, or 3.9 times
its earnings of 33.3 cents a share in the year through June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s cheaper than any
local media company worth more than $100 million in developed
Asia, the data show.  ‘Too Good’  “The numbers look almost too good not to have a look at
it,” said RBS’s McLeish. “The share price has fallen to levels
we never thought we’d get to.”  McLeish has a sum-of-the-parts  valuation  of A$2 and a share
price forecast of A$1.80 on Seven West. His analysis shows that
Stokes and KKR may be able to generate an internal rate of
return of as much as 31 percent if they buy the company now for
A$1.70 a share and sell it again in two years.  That depends on the buyers selling it at a multiple of 8
times his estimated earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization for fiscal 2015. In 16 takeovers
of Australian media companies, acquirers have paid a median of
13.5 times trailing 12-month Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Stokes could partially fund the deal from the sale of Seven
Group’s 25 percent stake in  Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. (CMJ)  to
Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp ., according to McLeish. Consolidated
Media agreed to be acquired by News Corp. in September for about
A$1.94 billion.  Takeover Financing  Seven Group said yesterday it plans to support News Corp.’s
bid, a decision that should generate about A$485 million for
Stokes’s company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Australian Competition & Consumer Commission the same day
blocked Seven Group from making its own bid for Consolidated
Media.  Stokes may already have laid plans for a buyout of Seven
West, according to  Mark McDonnell , an analyst at Sydney-based
BBY Ltd. Specifically, a capital raising of about A$440 million
in August was meant to repay debt, even though no borrowings
were coming due, he said.  “It was curious at the time -- they had no imminent
refinancing,” McDonnell said in a phone interview. “It now
looks to be something far more likely, which is it’s actually
about reducing the debt prior to a merger with Seven Group
Holdings so the total debt level will be moderated.”  Stokes, who began his media investments in Western
Australia in the 1970s, is always looking for an investment
opportunity, according to Aegis’s Mitchell, who said he has
known the billionaire for more than 20 years.  “If it was better to be a private entity, I am sure Stokes
would make that move,” he said. “He’s always been a long-term
thinker. In the end, people want to sit down in front of the box
and be entertained.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  