-- Ship Operators Jump on Higher Dry-Bulk Rates: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-10-12T09:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/ship-operators-jump-on-higher-dry-bulk-rates-hong-kong-mover.html
China Shipping Development Co. (1138)  and
 China Cosco (1919)  Holdings Co., the nation’s biggest operators of dry-
bulk ships, both rose the most in three weeks in  Hong Kong 
trading because of increasing rates for hauling commodities.  China Shipping advanced 5.8 percent to close at HK$3.48,
while China Cosco added 8 percent to HK$3.66. For both companies,
it was the biggest gain since Sept. 19. The benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  rose 0.7 percent.  Charter rates for capesizes have risen 50 percent from lows
in mid-September because of increasing demand and customers
having to pay more to persuade shipowners to take vessels out of
lay-up, Deutsche Bank AG analysts Joe Liew and Sky Hong wrote in
a note yesterday. The industry, which will probably post losses
for the third quarter, may also have a better year in 2013
because slower capacity growth will revive rates, they said.  “We are encouraged by the recent pick up in spot dry bulk
shipping rates,” Liew and Hong said. Investor interest in the
sector is returning “because stocks are so bombed out and rates
have started to recover from lows,” they said.  China Shipping, which also has  oil tankers , is the bank’s
top pick in the industry because it has lagged behind Pacific
Basin Shipping Co. over the past month and has a lower price. It
trades about 0.4 times the book value of its assets, compared
with about 0.7 times for Hong Kong-based Pacific Basin, the
analysts said. Pacific Basin closed up 2.7 percent to close at
HK$3.88.  China Shipping has tumbled 28 percent this year in Hong
Kong. China Cosco, which also operates the nation’s biggest
container-ship fleet, has dropped 4.2 percent. The Hang Seng
Index has risen 15 percent.  China Cosco’s has also announced plans to cooperate with
China Shipping Container Lines Co. on domestic cargo-box routes.
CSCL, an affiliate of China Shipping Development, is China’s No.
2 container carrier.  The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a benchmark for global commodity-
shipping rates, rose 3.2 percent in  London  yesterday. It has
jumped 37 percent since Sept. 12, when it reached a seven-month
low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  