-- Softbank Posts Biggest Drop in 12 Years on Sprint Investment
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-10-12T00:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/softbank-posts-biggest-drop-in-12-years-on-sprint-investment.html
Softbank Corp. (9984)  shares slid as much
as 17 percent in Tokyo trading, the biggest decline since March
2000, after  Japan ’s third-biggest phone operator said it’s in
talks to invest in  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   Shares fell 477 yen to 2,404 as of 9:32 a.m. on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.1 percent.  Softbank is seeking control of  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint, according to two people familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions are private.
Softbank also plans to acquire  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) 
through Sprint, Japan’s Nikkei newspaper reported yesterday.  “Investors tend to worry more about the financial burdens
initially when it comes to any major purchases, rather than
hopes for growth,” said Takashi Oba, a senior strategist at
Okasan Securities Co.  The Japanese company would provide much-needed financial
support for Sprint as the third-largest carrier in the U.S.
tries to compete with bigger rivals  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T
Inc. (T)  Sprint would give Softbank a base for entering the U.S.
market with a compatible wireless network via its joint venture
with  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , said Jennifer Fritzsche, an analyst at
Wells Fargo & Co.  Sprint “represents the only way for a potential new
entrant to get a national presence immediately in the U.S.,”
Fritzsche wrote in a report. Softbank and Clearwire, a wholesale
U.S. wireless carrier that is partially owned by Sprint, use
airwaves on the same frequency and the same TDD LTE high-speed
mobile technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  