-- Solyndra Sues Suntech Holdings Over Antitrust Claims
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-10-12T17:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/solyndra-sues-suntech-holdings-over-antitrust-claims.html
Solyndra LLC, the bankrupt solar-
panel maker that received a $535 million U.S. government loan
guarantee, accused  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  and other Chinese
panel makers of driving it out of business by running an illegal
cartel.  Solyndra, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  in August
2011, is seeking compensation “for the loss of the $1.5 billion
value of its business and more which defendants destroyed,”
according to a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in  San
Francisco .  The defendants schemed with each other, raw material
suppliers and certain lenders to flood the U.S. market with
solar panels at below-cost prices, the Fremont, California-based
company said in the complaint. Panel prices for Wuxi, China-
based Suntech, the biggest solar-panel maker, and two other
companies moved in tandem, falling 75 percent in four years in
the U.S. market, Solyndra said.  “It is obvious that this lawsuit is a misguided effort by
Solyndra to find scapegoats for its failure to commercialize its
technology at a competitive price point,” E. L. “Mick”
McDaniel, managing director of Suntech America, said in an e-
mail. The allegations are “baseless” and Suntech will fight
them, he said.  Government Policies  U.S. solar-energy manufacturers have said they were forced
to close plants and fire workers because of unfair Chinese
government policies. The Commerce Department on May 17 announced
preliminary duties ranging from 31 percent to 250 percent on
imports of Chinese-made solar cells, after determining that the
products were sold in the U.S. below cost.  Solyndra was forced to shut down operations and fire most
of its 1,100 workers on Aug. 31, 2011. The solar-panel maker
listed $854.1 million in assets and $867.1 million in debt in
court papers filed Oct. 31.  The company’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised Solyndra during a May 2010
tour of its facilities. It was the first company to receive a
loan guarantee under Obama’s stimulus program.  Suntech,  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and  Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co. (YGE)  raised money from American investors by selling depositary
shares to destroy U.S. competitors such as Solyndra, according
to the complaint. From 2008 to 2011, the Chinese companies
“coincidentally” cut prices, forcing Solyndra and other U.S.
solar-panel makers to follow suit, Solyndra claimed.  Trade Groups  The companies met regularly at trade group forums to
coordinate their pricing and agreed to flood the U.S. market
rather than sell in  China , according to the complaint.  An energy trade association, China’s energy administration,
Chinese banks and Chinese polysilicon manufacturers are named as
co-conspirators in the lawsuit.  The complaint seeks a judgment declaring the Chinese
companies’ conduct was an illegal conspiracy to fix prices and
create a monopoly and damages of at least $1.5 billion.  The case is Solyndra LLC v. Suntech Power Holdings Ltd.,
12-05272, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(San Francisco). The bankruptcy case is In re Solyndra LLC,
11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  