-- Sony Rating Lowered by Moody’s on Concern Cash Flow Is Weak
-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 2012-10-12T08:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/sony-rating-cut-by-moody-s-on-profit-recovery-concern-correct-.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , reeling from four annual
 losses , had its  credit rating  lowered one level by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited weak  cash flow  and losses at the
company’s television and mobile phone operations.  The rating was cut to Baa2, the second-lowest investment
grade, from Baa1, with a negative outlook, Moody’s said in a
report today. The decision affects about $4.2 billion in debt,
according to Moody’s.  The maker of Bravia televisions and Cyber-shot cameras is
struggling to revive profit by cutting costs as rivalry with
South Korean makers including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  pushes
down TV prices. Sony cut its annual profit forecast 33 percent
on Aug. 2, saying demand slowed more than expected and the
Japanese currency strengthened.  “Weak consumer sentiment, fierce global competition, and
the impact of the strong yen on cost competitiveness will
further hamper its efforts to improve its metrics,” Moody’s
said in the report announced after the close of trading today in
 Tokyo .  Sony shares  rose 2.1 percent  to 908 yen at the close,
compared with a 0.2 percent drop on the benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average.  The television maker said last month it would invest 50
billion yen ($637 million) in  Olympus Corp. (7733) , the world’s largest
maker of endoscopes, as part of its strategy to move into the
medical-equipment business. The two companies will form a joint
venture to make endoscopes and other medical devices, according
to a Sept. 28 finance ministry filing.  The investment “will further pressure Sony’s cash flow,
making it difficult for it to reduce debt without additional
sales of non-core assets,” Moody’s said in the report today.  Moody’s on Aug. 6 placed the company’s credit ratings on
review for downgrade, after cutting the long-term rating one
level in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave McCombs in Tokyo at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  