-- South Africa Rating Cut by S&P on Mining Industry Strikes
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-10-12T17:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/south-africa-rating-cut-by-s-p-as-strikes-cause-uncertainty.html
South Africa’s sovereign rating was
cut one level by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited concern that a
wave of strikes in the  mining industry  is causing political and
social unrest and placing pressure on  government spending .  S&P lowered the rating of the continent’s biggest economy
by to BBB, in line with Brazil, Russia and Mexico, with a
negative outlook, according to a statement today. The rand fell
1.2 percent to 8.7621 per dollar, posting the biggest drop among
25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as of 7:42
p.m. in Johannesburg.  “This is a bit of a game changer,” Dawie Roodt, chairman
of of Efficient Group in Pretoria, said in a phone interview.
“This is really, really bad news. We are being punished, and
rightfully so, for weak leadership and political uncertainty.”‘  S&P’s cut comes about two weeks after Moody’s Investors
Service reduced the nation’s debt ratings for the first time
since apartheid to Baa1. S&P’s rating is two levels above junk
and one level below the Moody’s assessment.  The strikes began at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana platinum mine on
Aug. 10 and spread to operations owned by  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  The country’s gold mines, including those of
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU) ,  Gold Fields (GFI)  and  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) ,
have also been affected. A strike by more than 20,000 truck
drivers resulted in food and fuel shortages in some parts of the
country.  Political Debate  “The strikes in South Africa’s mining sector will likely
feed into the political debate in the run-up to the 2014
elections, which may increase uncertainties related to the
 African National Congress ’ future policy framework,” S&P said.
“We also expect that South Africa’s underlying social tensions
will increase spending pressures and reduce fiscal flexibility
for the government.”  Yields on  South Africa ’s benchmark 6.75 percent bonds due
2021 fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.73
percent before the announcement. Five-year credit-default swaps
lost almost six basis points to 157. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or cash
equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  South Africa’s gross domestic production will soften “not
more than” 2.5 percent this year and the current account deficit
will rise to at least 5.1 percent of GDP, the ratings company said.
Growth will expand 3 percent in 2013, the rating company said.  Deteriorating Outlook  The nation’s economic outlook is deteriorating “rapidly,”
Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said on Oct. 10.
Manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
contracted 1 percent in the second quarter as a debt crisis in
 Europe  cuts demand for exports. The Treasury said in an e-mailed
statement today that its fiscal plan “is realistic and
achievable.” There’s “no historical evidence” to support
S&P’s assessment that social tensions in the country will
increase pressure on government spending, the Treasury said.  The rating cut “is going to then further weaken the
foreign account and the rand, which means that  inflation is
going to be higher than people had foreseen,”  Mike Schussler ,
chief economist at Economists.co.za, a Johannesburg- based
advisory service, said by phone.  Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when a
rating action suggests they should climb, or they increase even
as a change signals a decline, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as 38 years. The rates moved in the opposite
direction 47 percent of the time for Moody’s and for S&P. The
data measured yields after a month relative to U.S. Treasury
debt, the global benchmark.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  