-- Spain, Germany Win Easily in World Cup Qualifying; England Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-12T23:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/spain-germany-perfect-in-world-cup-qualifying-england-wins.html
Spain and Germany maintained their
perfect starts in European qualifying for soccer’s 2014  World
Cup  with easy away victories.  Pedro Rodriguez  scored three goals as Spain won 4-0 in
Belarus last night, while Germany routed Ireland 6-1 in Dublin.
The Netherlands, Russia and Romania also won to stay perfect and
England beat San Marino 5-0, leaving all with at least a share
of the lead in their groups.  “I was pleased with the way we kept playing football from
the first minute to the very last,” England manager  Roy Hodgson 
said in an interview with ITV. “Five goals is a good result.”  The winners of each of the nine European groups qualify for
the World Cup in Brazil, with the best eight runners-up going
into a playoff for the remaining four slots.  Jordi Alba also scored as Spain made it two wins in two
games in Group I. The world champion moves above France, which
didn’t play, on goal difference in the group. Finland and
Georgia tied 1-1 in the group’s other match.  Marco Reus and Toni Kroos scored two goals each as Germany
improved to nine points in Group C. Sweden rallied to beat the
Faroe Islands 2-1 to stay three points behind the Germans, while
Kazakhstan and Austria drew 0-0.  Manchester United teammates  Wayne Rooney  and  Danny Welbeck 
scored two goals each as England beat a San Marino team tied for
last place at No. 207 in the FIFA World Rankings. Arsenal’s Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain added his first England goal to close the
scoring.  Rooney, who served as captain in place of the suspended
 Steven Gerrard , now has 31 international goals to move to fifth
on England’s career list over  Alan Shearer , Tom Finney and Nat
Lofthouse.  “There are some great players there and to be in the
England top five is something to be proud of,” he told ITV. “I
am only 26 so hopefully I will score a lot more.”  Seven Points  England leads Group H with seven points, three more than
Montenegro and Poland, who didn’t play. Moldova and Ukraine tied
0-0 in the group’s other match.  The Netherlands and Romania have nine points in Group D.
 Rafael van der Vaart , Klaas Jan Huntelaar and Ruben Schaken
scored in the Netherlands’ 3-0 win against Andorra, while
Gheorghe Grozav’s goal lifted Romania past Turkey 1-0. Hungary
also beat Estonia 1-0.  Alexander Kerzhakov’s sixth-minute goal gave Russia a 1-0
win against Portugal in Moscow that moved it atop Group F with
nine points. Israel is third with four points, two behind
Portugal, after a 6-0 rout of Luxembourg.  Andrea Pirlo ,  Daniele De Rossi  and Pablo Osvaldo scored as
Italy beat Armenia 3-1 to take a two-point lead in Group B over
Bulgaria, which tied Denmark 1-1. The  Czech Republic  beat Malta
3-1.  Belgium Wins  Belgium won 3-0 at Serbia and Croatia was a 2-1 winner in
Macedonia to leave them tied for the Group A lead with seven
points. Gareth Bale scored twice to lead  Wales  over Scotland 2-1
for its first win.  Switzerland continues to lead Group E following its 1-1 tie
with Norway. Iceland was a 2-1 winner in Albania to move into
second place and Slovenia defeated Cyprus 2-1.  Slovakia beat Latvia 2-1 to tie Greece and Bosnia-
Herzegovina, which drew 0-0, for the top spot in Group G.
Lithuania beat Liechtenstein 2-0 for its first win.  The next round of European qualifying games will be played
Oct. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  