-- Sprint’s Softbank Deal Seen Roiling U.S. Mobile Market
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-10-12T20:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/sprint-s-softbank-deal-seen-roiling-u-s-mobile-market.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Hesse ’s talks to align with  Softbank Corp. (9984)  have the
potential to reshape the U.S. wireless landscape, creating a
more viable competitor to  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
sparking a new round of consolidation.  Sprint’s discussions involve Softbank, Japan’s third-
largest wireless carrier, taking a stake of as much as 75
percent and providing capital for investments, according to two
people familiar with the matter. The Nikkei newspaper said
Softbank may pay 1.5 trillion yen ($19 billion), without saying
where it got the information.  A deal between Softbank and Sprint would disrupt a wireless
industry that has been increasingly dominated by Verizon and
AT&T, a duopoly that has fueled government concern. The
transaction would give Sprint financial support to build a
competitive wireless network with a chance to be first to offer
the latest mobile devices, plus the means to buy control of
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  to get more capacity for data transmissions.  “This must be causing chills to run down the spines of
AT&T and Verizon executives,” said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst
at Alekstra Oy, a mobile diagnostics company. “They are ripe
for an aggressive new challenger to attack.”  Verizon and AT&T together control 75 percent of the market
for U.S. contract customers, according to  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , giving them economies of scale and the first shot at the
latest smartphones that draw customers.  Overland Park , Kansas-
based Sprint has 15 percent and  T-Mobile USA  Inc. 10 percent.  Exclusive IPhone  AT&T had exclusive rights to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone for almost
four years before  Verizon (VZ)  and later Sprint were able to offer
the device. Last year, AT&T had to drop its $39 billion
acquisition of T-Mobile USA because of opposition by regulators.  A new investor could help Hesse, 58, speed up his $7
billion network-upgrade plan to catch his two bigger rivals, who
have begun blanketing the U.S. with 4G wireless coverage. Sprint
needs to improve its own technology to lure more users craving
mobile video and faster download speeds, its ticket to growth as
the wireless voice market has become saturated.  Sprint also could use financial strength from a Softbank
deal to gobble up smaller wireless companies, adding more
airwaves to increase its capacity as users demand more Internet
services.  Clearwire Control  Softbank may help Sprint buy full control of Clearwire, a
wholesale U.S. wireless carrier, though no decision on that step
has yet been made, one of the people familiar with the matter
said. Sprint already owns 48 percent of Bellevue, Washington-
based Clearwire, which has airwaves in the same frequency as
Softbank and the same TDD LTE variant of network technology.  “Sprint is unprofitable, but the reason for that is
spending to set up its LTE network, so we can expect it to turn
around in the future,” Shinji Moriyuki, an analyst at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo, said in a report today.  A Sprint-Softbank deal could also create an operator
financially strong enough to eventually bid for the assets
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA is trying to combine with
Richardson, Texas-based wireless carrier  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS) , said a person familiar with Softbank’s plans, declining to
be identified as the discussions are private. Deutsche Telekom
said Oct. 3 it agreed to merge the U.S. unit with MetroPCS.  Softbank Decline  Sprint is holding off on an immediate counterbid for
MetroPCS to gain time to scrutinize the planned combination with
T-Mobile USA, people familiar with the situation said Oct. 10.
Softbank, based in Tokyo, plans to buy MetroPCS through Sprint,
Nikkei reported yesterday.  In a statement confirming talks for a “substantial”
investment from Softbank, Sprint said it couldn’t assure a
transaction would occur and didn’t provide any other details.
Softbank also confirmed the talks in a statement to the Tokyo
Stock Exchange today. MetroPCS, Clearwire, AT&T and Verizon also
declined to comment.  The deal talks made for the worst week in more than three
years for Verizon and AT&T shareholders. AT&T fell 5.9 percent
and Verizon decreased 5.2 percent respectively this week, the
worst slide since 2009. Clearwire rose 4.5 percent to close at
$2.32 in New York, adding to yesterday’s 71 percent gain.
MetroPCS advanced 2 percent to $11.88. Sprint fell 0.5 percent
to $5.73, after gaining 14 percent yesterday. The stock has more
than doubled this year, giving Sprint a market value of $17.2
billion.  Softbank shares fell 17 percent, the most on record, to
2,395 yen in Tokyo today. The stock has gained 5.7 percent this
year,  compared  with a 0.9 percent increase in the Nikkei 225
Stock Average.  Convertible Bonds  The cost to insure Softbank’s debt against non-payment
climbed 136 basis points to 307 basis points as of 3:30 p.m. on
Oct. 12 in Tokyo, the highest since Jan. 16, according to data
provider CMA.  The spread on Softbank’s 45 billion yen of 1.1 percent
bonds due 2016 relative to government debt jumped 98.1 basis
points as of 5:11 p.m. in Tokyo on Oct. 12 to 139.9, its highest
since issuance, according to Japan Securities Dealers
Association prices on Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s  Ratings Services placed its BBB long-term
corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings of Softbank
on creditwatch with negative implications because of possible
investment in Sprint Nextel.  “The transaction, if it proceeds, may undermine Softbank’s
financial risk profile, in our view,” S&P said in the
statement. Regardless of how the company finances the potential
investment, Sprint’s “significantly weaker” financial risk
profile may materially undermine Softbank’s financial risk
profile, it said.  Faster Technology  Sprint and Softbank are still negotiating over price, said
one of the people familiar with the matter. While a price of
about $6.50 per share for Sprint has been discussed, no specific
price has yet been reached, the person said.  Softbank’s investment in Sprint would include buying out
some holders of publicly traded Sprint shares and supplying
Sprint directly with capital, one person said. Sprint could use
the capital to build its LTE network, the person said.  Sprint started service using the faster technology called
LTE, or long-term evolution, in July in Atlanta, Dallas,
Houston,  San Antonio  and Kansas City, with plans to add more
this year to catch up with its larger competitors. Verizon
Wireless, which had a one-year head start on the upgrades, has
the service in about 340.  Softbank is working with lenders on how much it will need
to borrow for the deal, trying to minimize how much its  credit
rating  may be downgraded, said one of the people familiar with
the matter. Moody’s Investors Service upgraded Softbank’s debt
to  investment grade  last year, and Standard & Poor’s rates it
two levels above investment grade after an upgrade in January.
Both have junk ratings on Sprint debt.  First IPhone  At $19 billion, the deal would be the biggest outbound
acquisition since  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) ’s takeover of Gallaher
Group Ltd. in 2007.  If completed, it would put Japanese overseas takeovers on
track for a record year. Companies in Asia’s third-largest
economy have announced $59.9 billion of acquisitions abroad this
year, compared with $88 billion last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Softbank, the fastest-growing Japanese mobile-phone
provider, was the first carrier in Japan to offer the iPhone.
That helped it boost  earnings  by more than sevenfold over the
past four years and close the gap with larger  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) 
and  KDDI Corp. (9433)   Softbank may be looking toward the U.S. because it doesn’t
have as many alternatives in faster-growing  developing
countries , which typically limit foreign investment, said
Yoshihisa Toyosaki, a Tokyo-based analyst with Architect Grand
Design, an electronics research and consulting company.  “Softbank is trying to take advantage of the economic
turmoil in the U.S. to buy a majority stake in a carrier,” he
said. “This represents an opportunity for them.”  Entering the U.S. market allows Softbank to participate in
a bigger and growing market. Mobile-handset sales in the U.S.
totaled 191 million units last year, compared with 182 million
units in 2007, according to data compiled by IDC.  In contrast, handset shipments declined to 38 million units
in Japan last year from 52 million in 2007, according to IDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  