-- Standard, Nedbank Are Lending Most to Mining Companies
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-10-12T16:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/standard-nedbank-lending-most-to-south-african-mine-comp.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  and  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED)  are the largest lenders to mining companies in  South
Africa , where two months of labor disputes have shut operations,
killed more than 40 people and left thousands without jobs.  The two are also the most exposed to the platinum industry,
where the strikes began in August, Greg Saffy, RMB Morgan
Stanley’s banks analyst, said in an interview yesterday.
Standard and Nedbank, in drawn and undrawn loans, committed more
than 9.7 billion rand ($1.1 billion) and 6.2 billion rand
respectively to platinum mines in the first half, he said.  South African (JBNKS)  banks last year loaned more than 154 billion
rand ($18 billion) to the country’s mines, according to the
Pretoria-based central bank’s data. By June this year, according
to company reports, Standard advanced 75.5 billion rand to the
industry, Nedbank about 19.5 billion,  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  16.3
billion and  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  less than 10 billion rand.  “It’s overly simplistic just to look at the industry
exposures and try to conclude who is more at risk as the quality
and strength of each counterparty is very different,”  Mike
Brown , chief executive officer of Nedbank, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “We remain especially vigilant around
monitoring all our mining exposures and have not as yet noticed
any unusual credit related behavior among our clients.”  Erik Larsen, a spokesman for Standard Bank in Johannesburg,
declined to comment.  Deteriorating Economy  South Africa’s economic outlook is deteriorating
“rapidly,” Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said on Oct. 10.
Manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
contracted 1 percent in the second quarter as a debt crisis in
 Europe  cuts demand for exports. The central bank lowered its
growth estimate for this year to 2.6 percent and Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded the nation’s debt last month.  “As you go into economic tough times, the risks
increase,” Saffy said. “It’s not just mining. The logistics
and construction industries are also under pressure and small
and medium enterprises are not having the best of times. A
banker’s worst nightmare is when a corporate defaults.”  None of South Africa’s so-called big four banks would
comment on whether or not they are increasing their provisions
for bad debts amid the mining strikes and the slowing economy.  Standard Bank  is South Africa’s largest lender, and Nedbank
the fourth-biggest.  Labor unrest in the platinum industry began with a strike
at  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  on Aug. 10. Protests spread to companies including
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ,  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) 
and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s largest producer
of the metal. Amplats, as it’s known, fired 12,000 workers on
Oct. 5 and said it had already lost 700 million rand in revenue
because of stoppages. So-called junior mining companies such as
 Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  have also had to curb operations.  Standard Bank fell 0.3 percent to 104.76 rand by the close
in Johannesburg, while Nedbank rose 1.5 percent to 180.95 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  