-- Sun Hung Kai Kwoks, Ex-Hong Kong Official Bail Extended
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-10-15T08:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/sun-hung-kai-kwoks-ex-hong-kong-official-bail-extended.html
(Corrects Francis Kwan’s title in the fifth paragraph in
story published Oct. 12.)  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) ’s
billionaire co-chairmenThomas and Raymond Kwok and Hong Kong’s
former No. 2 official Rafael Hui, facing bribery-related
offenses, had their bail terms extended today.  Acting Principal Magistrate Bina Chainrai set Jan. 25 for
the next hearing in the case. The three men were first arrested
in March and charged in court on July 13.  Director of Public Prosecution Kevin Zervos told the court
that more time was needed to gather evidence from overseas.  The Kwok brothers, an executive of the world’s biggest
developer by value and another man conspired to provide payments,
loans and the free use of apartments to Hui, the city’s former
Chief Secretary, for unspecified favors, according to the
charges. The payments and loans totaled more than HK$35 million
($4.5 million),  according  to the Independent Commission Against
Corruption.  Sun Hung Kai executive director Thomas Chan and Francis Kwan, a former senior executive of the Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd., are the two other men charged in the case. Chan
was the first among the five defendants to be arrested by the
ICAC.  Thomas and Raymond Kwok were granted cash bail of HK$10
million each in July, while Hui’s bail was HK$500,000. Hui and
Kwan were also ordered not to leave Hong Kong. Their bail was
extended on the same terms today.  Thomas Kwok, 61, and Raymond Kwok, 59, have previously
denied wrongdoing and said they will continue to discharge their
duties with the assistance of deputy managing directors Mike Wong and Victor Lui, who were promoted in July. Adam Kwok, a son
of Thomas, and Edward Kwok, a son of Raymond, were named as
alternative directors to their fathers.  All five accused men declined to speak to reporters at the
court today.  The case is Hong Kong Special Administrative Region v
Rafael Hui, Thomas Kwok, Raymond Kwok, Thomas Chan and Francis
Kwan, ESCC2530/2012 in the Hong Kong Eastern Magistrate’s Court  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  