-- Swaps Rules, U.A.E. Debt, Basel Deadline: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-12T12:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/swaps-rules-u-a-e-debt-basel-deadline-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and the $648 trillion swaps market will enter a new
era of transparency when Dodd-Frank Act regulations for dealers
begin taking effect today.  The rules, more than two years in the making at the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, will improve oversight of
a market that for three decades has largely escaped federal
regulation, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said Oct. 10. The agency
is preparing a series of exemptions and guidelines to ease the
transition and phase in regulations.  “The days of the opaque swaps market are ending,” Gensler
said in a speech at George Washington University, where he
compared the new regulations to securities rules enacted in the
1930s. “The swaps market reform going into effect this week
holds out similar potential. Bright lights of transparency will
shine. Dealers will have to come under comprehensive
regulation.”  Starting today, companies must begin tallying their
derivatives trades to determine if they will be deemed swaps
dealers subject to Dodd-Frank’s highest capital, collateral and
trading standards, which may erode profits.  The designation will apply to JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and
the other financial firms dominating a business that generates
more than $30 billion in annual profit for the world’s largest
banks, according to an estimate from consulting firm  Oliver
Wyman , a unit of  Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC)   The agency has been bombarded with requests from lobbying
groups to ease or delay the measures, designed to limit risk and
increase transparency in the market after largely unregulated
trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Dodd-Frank gives the Treasury Department authority to
exempt foreign-exchange swaps and forwards from most of the
law’s clearing and trading regulations. Gensler also said there
would be a publication to address concerns about asset-backed
securities vehicles that use swaps.  Compliance Policy  EU Said to Weigh Delaying Basel Bank Rules for Up to a Year  The European Union may consider pushing back when lenders
need to start phasing in tougher Basel bank-capital rules by as
much as a year after warnings that pressing ahead with the
original timetable may drive up costs, according to three people
familiar with the talks.  EU lawmakers and officials, facing a Jan. 1 international
deadline for incorporating the rules, held the latest in a
series of meetings yesterday on how the bloc should implement
the Basel measures, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  Representatives of Cyprus, which holds the rotating EU
presidency, and legislators from the  European Parliament ,
discussed whether the start date for phasing in the measures
within the bloc could be delayed beyond the beginning of next
year, said the people. Possible alternative dates might include
July 1, 2013, or Jan. 1, 2014, one of the people said.  The implementation date was on the agenda for yesterday’s
meeting, four people said. Othmar Karas, the lawmaker leading
work on the draft rules in the European Parliament, denied that
any discussion took place at the meeting on a change of dates
for when the rules might enter into force.  Karas has requested written comments on the issue of when
the legislation should enter into force, a person said.  Daniel Koster, a spokesman for the parliament’s EPP group,
of which Karas is a member, said by phone that the question of
timing hasn’t been discussed and Karas hasn’t asked for written
comments.  For more, click here.  U.K. Will Stay Out of European Banking Union, FSA’s Turner Says  The U.K. won’t allow its lenders to be supervised by the
 European Central Bank ,  Financial Services Authority  Chairman
 Adair Turner  said in a speech designed to boost his candidacy
for the top post at the  Bank of England .  The U.K. will not be part of the Eurozone banking union,
Turner told financial executives in London yesterday. He also
said regulators may further ease capital and liquidity rules if
economic growth remains elusive.  European Union leaders in June embarked on plan to give the
ECB oversight of the banking system in a step toward offering
direct bailouts from the euro-area’s sovereign debt crisis fund.
All 27 EU nations must approve the oversight proposal for it to
move forward. Non-euro nations have called for assurance their
voices won’t be drowned out.  Finance ministers have acknowledged the EU is unlikely to
implement the new oversight regime by the start of 2013 as
initially hoped.  Turner has overseen a loosening in FSA requirements for
banks to hold capital and liquidity buffers since June. He said
regulators “need to be ready if these measures prove
insufficient, to consider further policy innovations” to
overcome “powerful economic headwinds.”  Compliance Action  U.A.E. Rules Unlikely to Derail Dubai Refinancing, BofA Says  Dubai’s state-linked companies are unlikely to struggle to
refinance debt even after the central bank imposed rules
curtailing bank lending to the government, according to  Bank of
America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit.  Large banks such as  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  and  National Bank of
Abu Dhabi PJSC , the biggest United Arab Emirates lenders, appear
in “clear breach” of the rules “but are likely to benefit
from regulatory forbearance,” London-based economist Jean-
Michel Saliba wrote in a report yesterday. The regulation would
encourage some government-related entities to seek alternative
sources of funding, he wrote.  The U.A.E. central bank said April 4 that banks must not
lend more than 100 percent of their capital to local governments
and the same amount to government-related entities to help
reduce risk. Banks had until Sept. 30 to comply. Assistant
Governor Saif Al-Shamsi said Oct. 1 that the regulator will deal
with each bank individually.  The U.A.E.’s sovereign issuers and government-related
entities have about $32 billion of debt maturing in 2012,
including $15 billion in Dubai, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in March.  NBAD’s loans to entities controlled by the Abu Dhabi
government made up 140 percent of its capital, according to BofA
Merrill Lynch. The bank has been given until March to comply
with the new central bank rules, Chief Executive Officer Michael
Tomalin told Dow Jones on Oct. 8 in  Kuala Lumpur , according to a
bank spokesman, who declined to be identified because of company
policy. The rules won’t affect the bank’s growth, Tomalin said.  FSA Fines Ex-Cattles Unit Director $160,000 Over Market Abuse  A former managing director of Cattles Plc’s Welcome
Financial Services unit was fined 100,000 pounds ($160,000) by
the U.K.’s finance regulator for market abuse.  John Blake  was also banned from working in the industry,
the Financial Services Authority said in a statement on its
website yesterday. Blake is the third executive connected to
Cattles penalized by the FSA this year. In March, James Corr,
Cattles’ finance director, was fined 400,000 pounds and Peter
Miller, Welcome’s finance director, was fined 200,000 pounds.  Cattles, based in Batley, England, was a subprime mortgage
lender. According to the FSA, its subsidiary Welcome published
“false and misleading information about the credit quality of
its loan book” in its 2007 annual report, which was used in
Cattles’s 2008 rights offering prospectus that raised 200
million pounds.  Cattles was sold last year to creditors including Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc after its shares were suspended in
2009. It has accused PricewaterhouseCoopers Plc of accounting
failures.  France Needs Non-Binding Shareholder Votes on Pay, Rameix Says  France should introduce a rule giving shareholders an
advisory vote on executive pay packages before considering
making the investor referendum mandatory, the head of the
nation’s financial markets regulator said.  Gerard Rameix, president of the Autorite des Marches
Financiers, made the remarks in an interview yesterday on
Bloomberg Television.  France’s government has said that it will propose so-called
say-on-pay legislation for shareholders before the end of the
year. The AMF was expected to present its annual report on
corporate governance and executive pay yesterday.  Courts  Chamber, Oil Trade Groups Sue SEC Over Foreign Payment Rule  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and two oil industry trade
groups brought a court challenge to the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s rule requiring public companies to disclose
payments of more than $100,000 made to foreign governments for
commercial development projects.  The groups, in a lawsuit filed Oct. 10 in federal court in
Washington, said the regulation violates the First Amendment of
the U.S. Constitution and that the commission failed to properly
consider the rule’s effects on competition. The rule will cost
U.S. companies more than the $1 billion estimated by the
commission, the groups said.  The groups said in the complaint that the rules will force
companies to allow competitors to gain “sensitive commercial
information” and they will have to abandon projects in
countries where such disclosures are forbidden.  The regulation stems from the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial
reform law, which ordered the agency to implement rules
requiring that 1,100 oil, gas and mining companies report
payments made to U.S. and foreign governments.  The trade groups say the SEC “grossly misinterpreted”
Congress’s directive by requiring each public company to file a
report on the commission’s online database detailing each
payment made to a foreign government. Providing a compilation of
payments would serve the same purpose without “further
burdening U.S. companies or revealing trade secrets or pricing
strategies,” according to the complaint.  The case is American Petroleum Institute v. U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, 12-cv-01668, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  Ex-UBS Client Roessel Avoids Prison in Offshore Tax Case  Wolfgang Roessel, a former client of  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Wegelin &
Co., avoided prison for failing to report more than $11 million
in Swiss accounts to U.S. tax authorities.  Roessel, 71, was sentenced yesterday in federal court in
Miami to eight months of home confinement and three years of
supervised release. He was also fined $10,000. He pleaded guilty
on May 30, admitting he filed a false tax return for 2007 and
didn’t file Reports of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts, or
FBARs, from 2002 to 2007. He has paid $6.5 million in a civil
FBAR penalty and back taxes.  Roessel cooperated with prosecutors in a crackdown on
offshore tax evasion involving UBS and its clients.  In a telephone interview yesterday, Roessel’s attorney, Lee
Stapleton, said her client “is glad to put this behind him.”  The Swiss account was “not part of Mr. Roessel’s life
either as a place to hide U.S. income or as a foreign piggy
bank,” Stapleton said. She described Roessel as a self-made man
in the motion-picture equipment business who inherited money
later in life.  In 2002, Roessel’s banker at UBS, the largest Swiss bank,
told him that anonymous Swiss accounts were no longer available
to U.S. clients, Stapleton said. He then opened a trust that
included the proceeds of his inherited money. Later, he opened
another account into which he transferred business-related
proceeds, according to Stapleton.  Wegelin was indicted Feb. 2, charged with helping U.S.
taxpayers hide more than $1.2 billion from the Internal Revenue
Service.  The case is U.S. v. Roessel, 12-cr-60074, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  Goldman Sachs’s Tourre Gets July 15 Trial Date in SEC Suit  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Fabrice Tourre will go to trial
July 15 in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s lawsuit
accusing him of misleading investors in a collateralized debt
obligation.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in Manhattan set the
trial date yesterday at the end of a hearing in which an SEC
lawyer argued that she should reinstate some claims against
Tourre that another judge dismissed earlier in the case.  Tourre, 33, who is studying for a Ph.D. in economics at the
University of Chicago, wasn’t present in the courtroom
yesterday. His lawyer,  Pamela Chepiga , told Forrest that she
will check with her client to make sure there is no conflict
between his exams and the trial date.  The SEC sued Goldman Sachs and Tourre in April 2010. The
New York-based investment bank agreed in July 2010 to pay $550
million to settle the allegations against it.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Comings and Goings  EU Parliament Panel Plans Negative Opinion on Mersch Role  The European Parliament’s Economic and Monetary Affairs
Committee will issue a negative opinion on the nomination of
Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch to the European Central Bank’s
Executive Board, lawmaker Sylvie Goulard said.  Goulard said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that the
recommendation aims at wider diversity, including gender
balance, and “no judgment would be made on the competences of
the candidate.”  Mersch’s nomination was put in limbo last month when the
committee objected to the lack of female candidates for the post
and postponed a planned hearing. The ECB seat has been empty
since June 1. Mersch, the euro region’s longest-serving central
banker, was selected by European finance ministers in July. The
committee will hold a hearing on Mersch’s candidacy on Oct. 22.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said Oct. 5
that the parliament doesn’t have the legal authority to stop
Mersch’s candidacy. Euro-region leaders will give the final nod.  Bowles Cites Lagarde Succession to Strauss-Kahn in BOE Job  European Parliament lawmaker  Sharon Bowles  said that
 Christine Lagarde ’s appointment to lead the International
Monetary Fund provides a parallel example to show how she could
replace  Mervyn King  at the Bank of England.  Bowles, who is chairwoman of the Parliament’s Economic and
Monetary Affairs Committee, cited Lagarde’s diplomacy and
negotiation skills this week when she announced her own
application for governor, competing with potential candidates
from Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  to Financial
Services Authority Chairman Adair Turner. Bowles studied
chemical physics and math rather than economics, and is the only
woman and lawmaker known to seek the job.  Lagarde, 56, who is currently in Tokyo leading the IMF’s
meetings, succeeded fellow French national Dominique Strauss-
Kahn. Lagarde is a lawyer by training, unlike her predecessor,
who is an economist.  Bowles said that she and Lagarde have “very similar kind
of strengths,” and the BOE needs “a different kind of
governorship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  