-- U.K. Woos Controversial Indian Leader Decade After Deadly Riots
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-10-12T05:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/u-k-woos-controversial-indian-leader-decade-after-deadly-riots.html
The U.K. government agreed to meet
with  Narendra Modi , the potential Indian prime minister
candidate Britain boycotted for 10 years over his alleged role
in riots that killed about 1,000 people in 2002.  Foreign Office Minister Hugo Swire said in a  statement 
yesterday that he asked the British High Commissioner in New
Delhi to visit Modi, governor of Gujarat, to discuss issues
including justice for British citizens killed in the rioting.  Modi has turned Gujarat into one of  India ’s most business-
friendly states, luring investors with faster approval process
for developments, a network of roads and ports and uninterrupted
power supply, a rarity in India. Political opponents and rights
groups had earlier accused him of allowing the 2002 violence to
continue.  “The U.K. has a broad range of issues in  Gujarat ,” Swire
said. “We want to secure justice for the families of the
British nationals who were killed in 2002. We want to support
human rights and good governance in the state.”  The riots in 2002 saw Hindu mobs rape and kill Muslims
after a fire on a train claimed 58 lives, among them Hindu
pilgrims. Modi allegedly instructed police to stand down and
allow the violence to go on, according to findings by a
 Concerned Citizens Tribunal .  Modi said he did his best to maintain law and order and his
administration later won re-election in the state. Modi’s
economic record helped propel him as a possible prime minister
candidate for the main opposition Hindu-nationalist  Bharatiya
Janata Party  party at the next general election.  “It is better late than never,” Modi said on Twitter
yesterday in response to the U.K. decision. “I welcome U.K.
government’s steps for active engagement & strengthening
relations with Gujarat.”  In an opinion poll published last week in the Sunday
Indian, a weekly magazine, Modi was named as the person most
likely to boost economic growth if he became prime minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  