-- U.K. Commission Set to Review Derivatives Sold by Consumer Banks
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-10-12T14:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/u-k-commission-set-to-review-derivatives-sold-by-consumer-banks.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne has asked a parliamentary commission to
investigate whether consumer banks subject to firebreaks  should
be able to offer simple derivatives to clients.  “Recent events involving the mis-selling of derivative
products have demonstrated the need for robust conduct, as well
as resolvability, safeguards, an area that the Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards will be investigating,” the
Treasury said today in proposed legislation on banking.  The  draft Financial Services (Banking Reform) Bill  has
adopted measures to build firebreaks around consumer banks in an
effort to reduce the prospect of a taxpayer bailout in a future
crisis. The proposed legislation comes after banks set aside at
least 9 billion pounds ($14.5 billion) to redress customers mis-
sold loan insurance and  interest-rate swaps .  The Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards, led by
Andrew Tyrie, is probing governance, transparency and conflicts
of interest in the industry and will develop proposals by Dec.
18.  The banking legislation may cut the value of the
government’s stakes in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  by as much as 5 billion pounds,
according to the draft bill. It would cut tax receipts by as
much as 400 million pounds based on plans to protect deposits as
“preferential debt,” placing them above other creditors in the
event of a bank collapse.  The legislation in total may cost the economy 1.1 billion
pounds a year in reduced gross domestic product, it said.  “The main driver of the level of annual tax receipts is
the level of GDP: all else being equal, lower GDP would
therefore result in lower tax receipts for the Exchequer,” the
treasury said in the draft legislation.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Keith Campbell  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
NI COS 