-- U.K. Stocks Fall Most in Two Weeks; Morgan Crucible Sinks
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-12T16:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/u-k-stocks-decline-on-economic-growth-concern.html
U.K.  stocks  retreated the most in
two weeks as commodity producers fell amid concern about Asian
growth and  Morgan Crucible (MGCR)  Co. cut its forecasts.  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s third-biggest mining company,
dropped 1.6 percent as Chinese bank lending missed projections.
Morgan Crucible, a maker of  body armor , sank 11 percent after
saying trading conditions deteriorated across most regions in
the third quarter.  Bodycote Plc (BOY)  and  IMI Plc (IMI)  lost at least 2
percent.  Travis Perkins Plc (TPK)  declined 3.6 percent even as the
builders’ merchant said it’s on track to meet estimates.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  fell 36.43 points, or 0.6 percent, to
5,793.32 at the close in  London . That was the biggest decrease
since Sept. 28 and extended this week’s decline to 1.3 percent.
The FTSE All-Share Index also dropped 0.6 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.3 percent.  “The market is looking very tired and it is certainly not
a buy-and-hold environment,” Stewart Richardson, chief
investment officer of RMG Wealth Management, said on Bloomberg
Television this week. “Fundamentals have been deteriorating now
for several months, we’ve had earnings downgrades on a regular
basis. That is going to be a trend that continues.”  Shares fell this week as the  International Monetary Fund 
cut its global growth forecasts to the slowest pace since the
2009 recession.  Inadequate Growth  IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde today said in Tokyo
that global growth was not fast enough to curb unemployment. In
an interview with the British Broadcasting Corp., Lagarde said
the advances in developed economies are “tepid” and that the
two main areas of uncertainty are the euro region and the U.S.  China’s new lending was below estimates last month as the
government struggles to reverse a slowdown in the world’s
second-biggest economy. Banks extended 623.2 billion  yuan  ($99.5
billion) of local- currency loans, the People’s Bank of China
said today. That compared with the median estimate of 700
billion yuan in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Rio Tinto retreated 1.6 percent to 3,022 pence, the biggest
drop in more than two weeks, as copper and lead fell in London
trading.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  lost 4.1 percent to 715.5 pence as  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  lowered its recommendation for the copper producer to equal
weight, a rating similar to hold, from overweight.  Antofagasta
Plc (ANTO)  declined 3.6 percent to 1,267 pence as HSBC Holdings Plc
downgraded the company to underweight from neutral, while Credit
Suisse Group AG initiated a “trading sell” on the shares.  Morgan Crucible  Morgan Crucible, which makes carbon materials for medical
and transportation equipment, tumbled 11 percent to 227.3 pence,
the biggest drop in 14 months, after warning its full-year
performance will be “materially below” previous targets.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Robertshaw said he sees a 30
percent “drop through” in profit on lower revenue. Group sales
in the third quarter was about 10 percent below the preceding
three month, according to a statement.  “This is a disappointing statement and harder than we
expected,” Oriel Securities Ltd. analyst Harry Philips wrote in
a report to clients today as the brokerage downgraded the stock
to hold from buy.  Industrial-goods companies IMI and Bodycote lost 2.3
percent to 904 pence and 6.1 percent to 351.3 pence,
respectively.  Cookson Group Plc (CKSN) , which earlier in the week said
its annual performance will fall short of its target, slid 1.7
percent to 530.5 pence.  ‘Next Warning’  “Following on from Cookson, it will be a case of spotting
the next warning,” Oriel’s Philips wrote in the report. “IMI
and Bodycote will top many lists.”  Travis Perkins dropped 3.6 percent to 1,094 pence, trimming
this year’s rally to 38 percent. The company said it remains on
target to meet  analyst projections  for earnings and that trading
in September saw “noticeable improvement” in sales trends
toward the end of the third quarter.  Citigroup Inc. today said consensus estimates for earnings
per share may fall by 2 percent to 5 percent because of slowing
sales trends.  “We continue to see attractive medium to long-term value
in the shares on volume recovery,” Citigroup analysts wrote in
a note to clients. “But after a recent strong run, we would not
be surprised to see the share price come off.”  Hargreaves Lansdown Plc (HL/)  paced advancing shares, rallying
3.5 percent to 712 pence for an eighth day of gains. The U.K.’s
largest retail broker reported a 20 percent jump in revenue to
68.7 million pounds ($111 million) for the three months to Sept.
30. Assets under management climbed 2.2 billion pounds to 28.5
billion pounds.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  rose 2.3 percent to 1,427.5 pence as
UBS AG added the lender to its “key calls” list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  