-- U.K.’s Osborne Warns of Triple Threat to World Economic Recovery
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-12T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/u-k-s-osborne-warns-of-triple-threat-to-world-economic-recovery.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne warned of a triple threat to the world economic
recovery that will materialize unless leaders take action.  Finance ministers in  Tokyo  for the International Monetary
Fund’s annual meeting worry that the so-called “fiscal cliff”
in the U.S., the synchronized slowdown of economies in  China ,
 India  and Brazil, and the need to implement promised backstops
for the euro will trigger a fresh crisis as the global economy
struggles to solve existing problems, Osborne said.  “There is less of an immediate sense of crisis at these
meetings,” Osborne told reporters in Tokyo. “There is perhaps
a greater concern about what lurks behind the next corner. There
is a greater concern about the medium-term risks.”  Echoing comments from IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde, Osborne said the euro area remains at the “epicenter
of the crisis.” The Washington-based lender said this week that
failure to remedy problems in  Europe  was helping to generate an
“alarmingly high” risk of a steeper slowdown in the world
economy, already on course to expand this year by the least
since the 2009 recession.  Triple Threat  “The euro zone has, however, been joined by the looming
U.S. fiscal cliff, which people are concerned about and about
which there was quite a lot of discussion yesterday, and the
slowdown in the emerging economies,” Osborne said. This
“triple threat to recovery” is very much on the agenda here
and people have been stressing the importance of delivering in
all these areas, he said.  Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner yesterday said U.S.
lawmakers should not delay dealing with the more than $600
billion in government spending cuts and tax increases which are
set to take effect at the beginning of next year unless Congress
acts.  A pact that allows for deficit reduction over time and
opens up room for investment in the shorter term would leave the
U.S. with “the potential to grow significantly faster,”
Geithner said. “We’re going to take a run at it.”  “All western countries face this challenge of slow growth,
high indebtedness,” Osborne said. Brazilian Finance Minister
Guido Mantega said the so-called BRICS nations of  Brazil ,
 Russia , India, China and South Africa are working to create a
pool of reserves to provide a “rearguard” of financial
support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Tokyo at  gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  