-- BP Workers’ Refusal to Talk Warrants Penalty, U.S. Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-10-13T04:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/u-s-seeks-to-penalize-bp-for-officials-silence-in-case.html
Three  BP Plc (BP/)  executives’ refusal to
testify about the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  disaster should be held
against the company at a multibillion-dollar trial over
liability for the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history,
prosecutors said.  Mark Hafle, BP’s senior drilling engineer; Brian Morel, a
drilling engineer; and Robert Kaluza, the well-site leader, were
the London-based company’s direct chain of command over the well
that blew out off the  Louisiana  coast in April 2010. All three
have invoked their constitutional right not to testify on the
grounds that it might incriminate them.  Federal prosecutors yesterday asked a federal judge in New
Orleans to rule that BP can be penalized at trial for the
workers’ silence, citing the three employees’ refusal to answer
specific questions about why they allegedly ignored warning
signs and continued to drill and complete the well in violation
of industry safety standards and government regulations.  “It was the well site leader and drilling engineer’s
responsibility to ensure that the proper tests were completed
before the cement was run, correct?” a lawyer asked Kaluza
under oath in a pretrial deposition, according to yesterday’s
filing. “You could not simply rely on the contractor, could
you?”  ‘Company Men’  Kaluza, who was one of two BP “company men” on duty
aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, declined to answer.  “You never ran any additional tests to determine the
casing integrity or whether, in fact, something had ruptured
higher up, did you?” the lawyer asked, saying that Kaluza had
expressed concern about a possible rupture or hole.  Kaluza again refused to answer, according to the filing.  The government asked that the court “draw adverse
inferences” based on the witnesses’ refusal to testify. This
would mean that the judge, who is hearing the civil case without
a jury, could assume that whatever testimony the BP workers’
might have provided would have been unfavorable to the company.  Shaune Clarke, Kaluza’s lawyer, Mitch Lansden, Hafle’s
attorney, and Bill Taylor, who represents Morel, didn’t return
calls seeking comment yesterday on the request by prosecutors.  BP said in a filing that it would rather the judge not
penalize any of the companies involved in the spill for their
employees’ refusal to testify.  “The inferences sought by other parties essentially
amounted to counsel’s wish list of facts not otherwise
established by the evidence,”  Don Haycraft , BP’s lawyer, said
in the filing. Drawing adverse inferences from employees’
silence, he said, would “improperly grant opposing counsel
carte blanche to establish whatever facts they wished with
regard to the events that led to the sinking of the Deepwater
Horizon and resulting oil spill.”  Drilling Rig  The nonjury trial over liability for the explosion of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and the subsequent oil spill is
set for Jan. 14 before U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New
Orleans. Kaluza and the other BP employees were called as
witnesses in the lawsuits over the spill.  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon killed
11 workers and prompted hundreds of lawsuits against BP;
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner and
operator of the rig; and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided
cementing services.  The U.S. government also sued BP, Transocean and BP’s
partners in the well,  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007 and The
Woodlands, Texas-based  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , alleging
violations of federal pollution laws. Louisiana and  Alabama  sued
as well. MOEX has settled the federal pollution claims.  $7.8 Billion Settlement  BP reached an estimated $7.8 billion settlement with most
private party plaintiffs in March. The plaintiffs’ and
government claims against BP’s contractors involving the Macondo
well remain.  Prosecutors also asked the judge to draw adverse inferences
against 11 other drilling personnel associated with the
Deepwater Horizon, who worked either for Transocean, or for
Halliburton and its Sperry-Sun drilling measurement unit, who
were providing cementing services to the well.  Transocean also asked the court yesterday to draw adverse
inferences from the refusal to testify of BP employees Hafle,
Kaluza and Morel. Transocean had earlier sought such a ruling on
Hafle; the company asked for “additional adverse inferences”
yesterday.  Cementing Decisions  “These witnesses had substantial responsibility at BP over
the Macondo well,” Transocean said in yesterday’s filing. The
unanswered questions “relate to these witnesses’ mishandling of
cementing decisions on behalf of BP and to their mishandling of
the negative pressure test on April 20, 2010.”  Transocean has contended that BP personnel ignored a
potentially flawed negative pressure test before the well blew.  Halliburton also asked the judge yesterday for adverse
inferences against seven witnesses it claims “increased the
risk of a blowout occurring” by disregarding danger signs and
deviating from standard drilling procedures. These included the
three BP employees and four Transocean employees who were
working onboard the Deepwater Horizon at the time of the blast.  If the judge grants the other parties’ requests for adverse
inferences, then BP, in its filing, seeks the same against nine
Transocean rig workers and a Halliburton cementing employee, all
of whom BP claims should have known the rig crew wasn’t
following proper drilling procedures.  Health Concerns  Donald Vidrine , the BP company man on duty at the time of
the explosion, also has refused to answer all questions, citing
health concerns, not his constitutional right against self-
incrimination. The government didn’t mention Vidrine in
yesterday’s filing.  “To date, Vidrine has refused to testify due to alleged
health issues,” Transocean said in its filing.  Ellen Moskowitz , a BP spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a call
and e-mail seeking comment on the filings. Beverly Stafford, a
Halliburton spokeswoman, declined to comment on the filings.  Lou Colasuonno, a Transocean spokesman, didn’t return phone
and e-mail messages seeking comment yesterday on the filings.
Robert Habans, Vidrine’s lawyer, didn’t respond to voice and e-
mail messages seeking comment on the government’s request.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of  Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  