-- U.S. Video-Game Sales Drop 24% in September, NPD Says
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-10-12T00:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/u-s-video-game-sales-drop-24-in-september-npd-says.html
U.S. retail sales of software,
hardware and accessories declined 24 percent to $848.3 million
in September from a year earlier, according to researcher NPD
Group Inc.  The decline was led by shrinking sales of game consoles,
which fell 39 percent to $210.9 million, the  Port Washington ,
New York-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.
Software sales fell 18 percent to $497.4 million even with
strong gains in  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) ’s “Madden NFL 13”
football game, which sold 11 percent more units in its debut
month than the previous version last year, NPD said.  Video-game industry sales this year have shrunk as fewer
consumers buy packaged titles, which sell for about $60 each.
Sharp gains in games played on mobile devices have failed to
offset an overall decline. Taking into account digital
downloads, consumers probably spent almost $1.6 billion on games
last month, NPD analyst Liam Callahan estimated.  New video-game sales for this month will probably decline 5
percent from a year ago, which would be the best result for the
industry in nearly 12 months,  Arvind Bhatia , an analyst at
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., said in a research note today.  The industry is gearing up for the peak holiday shopping
season beginning in November. Among nearly a dozen tent-pole
game titles from major developers,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  releases the
next installment of its $3 billion Halo franchise, while
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  will begin selling “Call of Duty:
Black Ops II.”  Console Sales  Microsoft held the lead in console sales in September for
the 21st consecutive month. The Redmond, Washington-based
company said in a separate statement that U.S. retailers sold
270,000 of its Xbox consoles last month. That’s down 38 percent
from 438,000 players sold a year earlier.  Nintendo Co., based in Kyoto,  Japan , said in its own e-
mailed statement that sales of software for its 3DS handheld
machines jumped 89 percent from a year earlier, without citing
specific sales figures.  The gain was helped by titles such as “New Super Mario
Bros. 2,” which sold more than 295,000 units in September, its
second month on the market, Nintendo said, citing NPD figures.
The statement didn’t disclose hardware sales for the 3DS and the
older Wii console.  The video-game machine maker, trying to recover from an
annual loss, will begin selling its Wii U home console Nov. 18.
It’s the industry’s first new console since 2006.  Sony Corp. (6758)  often doesn’t report monthly figures, and didn’t
for September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  