-- U.S. Stocks Decline as Europe, Banks Offset Economy
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-10-12T20:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/u-s-stocks-erase-gain-as-bank-slump-overshadows-confidence-data.html
U.S.  stocks  fell, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its biggest weekly drop in four
months, as a slump in European and financial shares overshadowed
an unexpected jump in  consumer confidence .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  paced
declines among  financial companies , which had the biggest loss
out of 10 S&P 500 groups.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  slid 2.6 percent
after reporting a record third-quarter profit that was marred by
narrower profit margins.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  slid 14
percent after cutting its third-quarter revenue forecast.  The S&P 500 dropped 0.3 percent to 1,428.59 at 4 p.m. New
York time, after increasing as much as 0.4 percent earlier. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  added 2.46 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 13,328.85. About 5.4 billion shares traded hands on
U.S. exchanges today, 9.4 percent below the three-month average.  “You’re in the midst of earnings season, which has been
kind of blah,”  Malcolm Polley , who manages $1.1 billion as
chief investment officer at Stewart Capital in Indiana,
Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview. “I’m interested in
what companies are seeing more than the macro data points
because I think companies have a better pulse on what’s really
going on. Business is slow and most companies are not seeing an
improvement in the near-future.”  The S&P 500 slid as European equities headed lower. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined for the fourth time in five
days. U.S. stocks rose earlier as confidence among U.S.
consumers unexpectedly jumped in October to the highest level
since before the recession began five years ago. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary October  consumer
sentiment index  increased to 83.1. The gauge was projected to
fall to 78, according to economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Wholesale Prices  A separate report showed wholesale prices in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in September, reflecting a jump in fuel costs
that failed to trickle down to other goods.  The  S&P 500  lost 2.2 percent this week, the biggest drop
since June 1. The benchmark equity gauge is still up 14 percent
 this year  as companies reported better-than-expected earnings
and the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of bond
purchases.  The third-quarter earnings season is forecast to show S&P
500 profits and sales fell in unison for the first time in three
years, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Per-share earnings in the S&P 500 are projected to have dropped
0.9 percent after they were little changed in the second
quarter. Sales may have slipped 0.6 percent, the data show.  Earnings Season  Of the 35 S&P 500 companies that have reported since Oct.
10, 69 percent have reported earnings that have exceeded
analysts’ estimates while 51 percent posted sales that topped
projections, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings pessimism among U.S. chief executive officers is
climbing to levels last seen when the S&P 500 was mired in bear
markets. Over the last four weeks, the ratio of companies saying
profits will trail estimates compared with those saying they
will exceed them climbed to 4.3, according to 69 earnings
previews compiled by Bloomberg. The rate matches peaks reached
in February 2009 and October 2001, the data show.  Vice President  Joe Biden  and Republican  Paul Ryan  each said
that their parties’ proposals would bring U.S. unemployment
below 6 percent during a pre-election debate yesterday.  Voters Poll  A CNN poll of registered voters scored the showdown as
essentially a tie, with 48 percent declaring Ryan the winner and
44 percent siding with Biden. The survey of 381 respondents has
a margin of error plus or minus 5 percentage points. A CBS poll
of 431 undecided voters showed Biden the winner over Ryan, 50
percent to 31 percent, with a margin of error of 5 percentage
points.  Financial companies erased 1.4 percent as a group in the
S&P 500. JPMorgan lost 1.1 percent to $41.62, while Bank of
America slumped 2.4 percent to $9.12 for the biggest decline in
the Dow.  American Express Co. (AXP)  also fell, losing 1 percent to
$57.89, while  First Horizon National Corp. (FHN) , Tennessee’s largest
bank by market share, slumped 4.3 percent to $9.52.  JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by assets, is still
recovering from a wrong-way bet on credit derivatives that cost
it about $6.25 billion through the first nine months of this
year, not including what the bank said was a “modest”
additional loss in the third quarter. Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon , 56, got help restoring investor confidence from
historically low  interest rates  and government programs that
fueled demand for home loans.  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo slipped 2.6 percent to $34.25. While record-low
rates spurred homeowners to refinance, boosting the  mortgage
unit , that also curtailed interest income on the bank’s loans
and other investments. Revenue in the third quarter was $21.37
billion, falling short of the $21.41 billion projected by
analysts on average.  “Financials it appears may have some more rough sledding
before the quarter’s over,” Lawrence Creatura , who helps
oversee $370 billion as a Rochester, New York-based fund manager
at Federated Investors Inc., said by phone. “This early in the
earnings season, the larger-capitalization bellwethers are
announcing and setting the tone for both their sectors and the
market as a whole.”  AMD plunged 14 percent, the biggest loss in the  S&P 500 (SPX) , to
$2.74. The second-largest maker of processors for personal
computers said third-quarter revenue  will drop  approximately 10
percent from the prior period, more than the decline of about 1
percent it had previously projected. The new forecast indicates
sales of about $1.27 billion. The average analyst prediction was
for a revenue of $1.38 billion.  Wal-Mart Gains  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  added 1.1 percent to $75.81, the
highest level ever. Jefferies & Co. lifted the world’s largest
retailer to a buy from hold. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based
company said earlier this week it had a “very strong” back-to-
school season.  J.B. Hunt Transport Services Inc. surged 6.5 percent to
$58.37 as the trucker posted third-quarter sales of $1.3
billion, topping the average analyst estimate of $1.28 billion
in a Bloomberg survey.  Ecolab Inc. (ECL)  rallied 4 percent to $66.24. The largest maker
of cleaning chemicals for hotels and restaurants agreed to buy
Champion Technologies Inc. for about $2.2 billion in cash and
stock as it seeks a greater share of the oilfield chemicals
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  