-- U.S. Money Funds Increase French Bank Holdings to 12-Month High
-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h   a n d   A l b e r t o   F u e r t e s
-- 2012-10-12T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/u-s-money-funds-increase-french-bank-holdings-to-12-month-high.html
The 10 largest U.S. money market
funds increased their holdings of securities issued by French
banks to the highest level for a year after the European Central
Bank’s decision to buy  government bonds  revived confidence in
the region.  Investments in French banks climbed by $9.6 billion in
September to $22.6 billion, the biggest rise of any country,
according to a survey of fund disclosures by Bloomberg Brief:
Risk.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , the country’s second-largest lender,
attracted almost $5 billion from the funds, bringing their total
holdings in the Paris-based bank to $8.2 billion. That compares
with a low of $750 million in December. Still, none of the funds
surveyed invested in Spanish or Italian banks, keeping their
holdings at zero.  “Our portfolio managers have become more comfortable with
the near-term market outlook in Europe, based on additional
clarity that came as a result of recent announcements from the
ECB,” said Stephen Austin, a spokesman for  Fidelity
Investments . Three of the firm’s funds boosted their holdings in
French banks by $5 billion in September. “We feel confident in
increasing our funds’ short term exposure to euro zone banks.”  The pools increased their holdings in Natixis SA to $5.5
billion from $1.5 billion, the most since August 2011.  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP) , the country’s largest lender, and  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA) , the third-biggest, had smaller increases of $111 million and
$712 million respectively in the month.  Lengthening Maturities  Money funds also increased the maturity of their holdings
in French banks, according to an Oct. 11. report to clients by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analyst  Alex Roever .  Three of the French banks surveyed may have attracted money
fund investment by paying more for short-term borrowing as the
three-month dollar London interbank offered rate declined in the
month. The three largest French banks as well as  Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc  regularly reported higher borrowing costs than the
average Libor rate in the period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association, a
banking industry lobby group, that asks firms to estimate how
much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. The top and bottom
quartiles of quotes are excluded, and those left are averaged
and published for individual currencies before noon in  London .  RBS’s money-market funding increased by $5.1 billion to
$12.1 billion in September, while there was a total reduction
for U.K. banks of $2.15 billion, the survey showed. RBS had
a liquidity portfolio of 156 billion pounds ($251 billion) to
cover funding shortfalls, according to an Aug. 3 presentation.  Reducing Needs  In addition to selling commercial paper, certificates of
deposit and repurchase agreements to money funds, banks can
obtain short-term funding from central banks, interbank
repurchase agreements, or by increasing deposit rates to attract
more money from individual customers. Banks also hold cash-like
instruments in a liquidity pool to meet redemptions.  Societe Generale has reduced its use of short-term
wholesale funding by 30 percent since the middle of last year,
according to a second-quarter presentation given alongside
results on Aug. 1. The bank had 114 billion euros ($148 billion)
of liquid assets available to make up for funding shortfalls,
according to the presentation. That amount covers 99 percent of
the bank’s funding needs. BPCE, the parent company of  Natixis (KN) ,
has reduced its wholesale funding requirements by 22.9 billion
euros since the end of June last year.  Funds Surveyed  Nathalie Boschat, spokeswoman at Societe Generale and
Natixis spokeswoman Andrea Pucnik declined to comment on the
figures. Pascal Henisse, a spokesman at BNP Paribas, declined
to comment. Officials at RBS weren't immediately available to 
comment.  The funds surveyed were  Fidelity Cash Reserves (FDRXX) ,  JPMorgan
Prime Money Market Fund (CJPXX) ,  Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund (VMMXX) ,
Fidelity Institutional Money Market Portfolio, BlackRock
TempFund,  Federated Prime Obligations Fund (POIXX) ,  Schwab Cash
Reserves (SWSXX) , Western Asset Institutional Liquid Reserves and
Dreyfus Cash Management Fund. Together the funds manage $687
billion in assets, including repurchase agreements backed by
government debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net ;
Alberto Fuertes in London at 
 afuertes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nicholas Dunbar at   ndunbar1@bloomberg.net  