-- Lufthansa Says No Gulf Pact Before Savings as Rivals Seal Deals
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-10-12T13:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/lufthansa-says-no-gulf-pact-before-savings-as-rivals-seal-deals.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  will only be
able to follow rivals in entering a pact with a Gulf carrier
once it has achieved the cost reductions needed to strengthen
its hand, Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz told staff.  A deal won’t be contemplated unless Lufthansa is on “equal
terms with the negotiating partner,” Franz said at an employee
meeting, according to the company’s weekly newsletter, adding
that: “To do that you must first get your own house in order.”  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest carrier, announced a
code-share deal with  Abu Dhabi ’s Etihad Airways on Oct. 8 in a
step toward what the Gulf No. 3 said will become a major accord.
Hours later,  Qatar Airways , ranked second in the Gulf, said it
would join British Airways’ Oneworld alliance within 18 months.  Lufthansa, Europe’s second-biggest airline, is a leader of
the Star grouping, which though the largest of three that
dominate the  airline industry  has no member in the Gulf, where
carriers have established global hubs served by fleets of new
wide-body planes in competition with European operators.  Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by international
traffic, has no major tie-up with a European airline, though
President  Tim Clark  has said the Dubai-based company has no need
of conventional alliances, arguing that they add little value.  Poor Strategy  Franz, eight months into a 1.5 billion euro ($1.9 billion)
savings plan, said yesterday that he wouldn’t be bounced into a
tie-up in the Gulf, querying Air France’s decision to ally with
Etihad, which also holds a 29 percent stake in Air Berlin Plc, a
low-cost competitor to Lufthansa on short-haul routes.  “Our first goal is to retain our leading role in  Europe  so
that in the future we can sit with them at an equal level,” he
said at a press event in Frankfurt. “If the head of Air France
traffic says ‘If you can’t beat them, join them,’ that’s not the
expression of a business strategy conducive to survival.”  Former Air France-KLM CEO Pierre-Henri Gourgeon said in
2010 that Gulf carriers were unfairly benefiting from lower
taxes, airport charges, social levies and fuel bills because of
their state ownership. In March Franz himself urged European
authorities to ensure the existence of a level playing field.  Carsten Spohr, head of passenger airlines for the Lufthansa
group, said that yesterday’s formalization of plans to fold
short-haul operations outside Frankfurt and Munich into discount
unit Germanwings was a vital move as the company struggles with
a 1.3 billion-euro jump in its annual fuel bill.  “We’re no longer managing to subsidize decentralized short-
haul operations with long-haul,” he said in the newsletter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  