-- Hungary Wants Change in IMF Discussions to Credit Line
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-10-12T10:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/hungary-wants-switch-in-imf-talks-to-credit-line-instead-of-loan.html
Hungary wants a precautionary  credit
line  with the  International Monetary Fund , rather than a standby
agreement it’s been in talks to obtain for almost a year, a
government spokesman said.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said today on state radio that
he considers an accord to be within reach and wants the
Washington-based lender’s help to lower financing costs for the
European Union’s most-indebted eastern nation.  “There has been no agreement because the Hungarian
government has made it clear” that “Hungary’s liquidity
doesn’t make it necessary to ask for an IMF loan and that’s why
we want to negotiate a precautionary credit line which provides
possible help in case of a further deterioration of the euro
area,” Andras Giro-Szasz told TV2 in an interview today.  Hungary, mired in its second recession in four years,
requested aid in November as its  credit rating  was cut to junk.
Talks for a loan of about 15 billion euros ($19.5 billion) were
delayed multiple times because of Orban’s resistance to adhere
to legal and economic conditions set by the IMF and the EU.  Investor faith in  Hungary ’s commitment to obtain an IMF
loan has helped the forint rise 12 percent this year against the
euro, the most in the world, after plunging 15 percent in the
second half of last year. The forint strengthened 0.2 percent to
281.06 per euro by 9:48 a.m. in Budapest.  ‘Own Feet’  Hungary can “stand on its own feet” and wants to use IMF
aid to lower its financing costs, Orban told MR1 state radio
today. He didn’t object to the reporter’s question about the
goal of obtaining an IMF loan.  “We’re not far from a good agreement” with the IMF, Orban
said in an interview with state radio MR1 today. “There’s a
good chance.”  The IMF has said Hungary qualifies for a standby loan
facility, which according to the lender’s rules comes with
conditions and quarterly policy reviews. Hungary need not draw
on the funds, IMF representative in Budapest Iryna Ivaschenko
said on Oct. 4.  Orban shunned the IMF after taking office in 2010 to
prevent interference in what he called his “unorthodox”
measures. They included the effective nationalization of $13
billion of private pension-fund assets, extraordinary industry
taxes to raise revenue for the budget,  Europe ’s highest bank
levy and forcing lenders to swallow exchange-rate losses on
foreign-currency mortgages.  Investor Confidence  The measures damaged investor confidence, cut investments,
helped push the economy into a recession and cost the country
its investment grade as Standard and Poor’s,  Fitch Ratings  and
Moody’s Investors Service have all cut Hungary’s credit to junk.  Orban reversed his policy last year when the state started
struggling to raise funds at debt auctions, the forint plummeted
and the country’s sovereign credit grade was cut to junk.  Hungary is open to “any kind” of credit line to prop up
financing, Orban told MTI state news service on Jan. 8.
Hungary’s talks with the IMF are aimed at “a standby credit
line with conditionality and control as its key elements,”
Tamas Fellegi, Hungary’s former aid negotiator, said Jan. 12
after meeting IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde .  The nation needs to move away from “ad hoc” taxes and
should create a more “business friendly” environment to boost
growth and make budget financing sustainable, the IMF said in a
July 26 statement after a week of talks in Budapest. On Oct. 4
it said the government doesn’t have to draw funds from a standby
loan. There is no date for the next round of talks.  Hungary yesterday announced it would sell euro-denominated
retail bonds as it seeks to diversify financing amid investor
concern over the government’s commitment to reach an IMF deal.
The country won’t sell foreign debt on international financial
markets before an IMF agreement, Laszlo Andras Borbely, deputy
chief executive officer at the debt agency, said yesterday.  There’s no evidence Hungary is making progress toward a
financing deal with the IMF even though an agreement would help
stabilize the country’s credit rating,  Frank Gill , analyst at
Standard & Poors’s said on Oct. 10. An IMF program would be an
important anchor for Hungary’s creditworthiness, Gill said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  