-- Munger Siblings Spend $54 Million to Sway California Vote
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-10-12T16:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/munger-siblings-spend-54-million-to-sway-california-vote.html
Siblings Molly Munger and Charles Munger Jr., whose father is vice chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , have poured $54.4 million into California ballot measures,
stoking a battle with Governor  Jerry Brown  and powerful labor
unions.  Molly Munger, whose plan to raise taxes to help schools is
competing with the governor’s budget-balancing tax proposal, has
spent $31 million, according to MapLight, a nonpartisan research
organization. Her brother has given almost $23 million to oppose
Brown’s proposal and pass one barring unions and corporations
from using payroll-deducted funds for politics.  “They’ve emerged as a major power in California because of
their money,” said Bob Stern, who was president of the former
Center for Governmental Studies in  Los Angeles , a group that
examined the initiative process. “They’ve set the agenda for
California in many ways.”  The Munger-supported initiatives are among 11 ballot
measures state voters will consider Nov. 6, the most in a single
 California  election since 2008. Voters will decide whether to
require labeling of genetically modified food, abolish the death
penalty and increase penalties for human trafficking.  Direct Democracy  California is among 24 states that allows unelected
individuals such as the Mungers to circumvent the Legislature
and take their ideas directly to voters. In 2010, a ballot
measure financed largely by Charles Munger Jr. won approval,
stripping California lawmakers of responsibility for drawing the
boundaries of congressional districts and giving a commission
the authority to do so.  “In recent years, I have supported political reforms that
have placed more power back in the hands of citizens,” Munger,
55, a physicist who lives in  Palo Alto , said by e-mail.  His sister, a 64-year-old lawyer in Los Angeles, says she’s
“not a political person.”  “I’m a civil-rights lawyer, I’m an advocate,” said  Molly
Munger , a partner with English, Munger & Rice. “We have an
enormous problem in California with our underfunded schools, and
I’m just trying to do what I can.”  At Loggerheads  Her initiative,  Proposition 38 , would increase taxes for 12
years on income of more than $7,316 from 0.4 percent for the
lowest earners to 2.2 percent for those making more than $2.5
million a year. It would raise $10 billion annually. While 30
percent of the added revenue would pay down school-bond debt for
the first four years, all the money would go to educational
operations for the remaining eight years.  Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, is campaigning for
 Proposition 30  to avoid deep cuts to schools. It would
temporarily boost the  state sales tax  to 7.5 percent from 7.25
percent and raise the levy on income starting at $250,000. A
rejection by voters would trigger $5.5 billion in education
cuts. The budget he signed in June counts on more than $8
billion from the higher taxes.  If both measures pass, only the tax increases from the
proposal that gets the most yes votes would take effect, under
the state constitution.  “Unfortunately, because of their resources, they are able
to attempt to drown out the voices of the united education
community that is supporting Prop. 30,” said Dan Newman, a
spokesman for the pro-Proposition 30 campaign.  ‘Money Tie’  Charles Munger Jr. has donated $21.9 million to the Small
Business Action Committee, which opposes Brown’s measure. The
group also supports Proposition 32, which would ban corporations
and unions from contributing directly or indirectly to
candidates and candidate-controlled committees. The proposal
also would forbid unions from using payroll deductions for
political purposes.  “It prevents an organization with power over an employee,
whether it be a corporation or a union, from taking money
automatically out of an employee’s wages to pursue politics the
employee doesn’t support,” Charles Munger Jr. said.  The measure “also cuts the money tie that allows
corporations and unions to make direct contributions to
influence elected officials,” he said. “These reforms place
more power back in the hands of the citizens.”  Charles Munger Jr. has also given more than $872,700
directly to the campaign for Proposition 32, according to
MapLight data.  Outsider Effort  “In a certain sense, both of these people -- the Mungers -
- are sort of policy entrepreneurs,” said Jack Citrin, a
political science professor at the  University of California ,
Berkeley. “They have ideas, they want to implement them, they
know they can’t get it through the Legislature, so they have
this opportunity.”  Apart from the initiative process, any state tax increase
would require a two-thirds vote of the Legislature.  Molly Munger dismissed criticism of her use of family
wealth to shape California politics.  “I’ve given years of my life to influence policy,” she
said. “I’ve trudged around  Sacramento . To me, being able to
help a big coalition of people fight for kids is just a natural
extension of work that I’ve done for a very long time.”  San Francisco  Mayor Edwin Lee, 60, said voters will look
past the money spent to understand the issues involved.  “We have been very much used to, and we have a lot of
examples throughout the state, where there was a lot of money
spent on special-interest groups and the public has been able to
pierce that,” Lee said.  Making Enemies  Both Mungers said they’re not interested in public office.  “I have absolutely no interest in ever running for
political office,” Molly Munger said in a telephone interview.  Charles Munger Jr. said, “If running for public office had
been my intent, I would have been well-advised not to raise up
as many adversaries as my quests to pass political reform have
done.”  Their father, Charles “Charlie” Munger, 88, has served as
vice chairman of  Warren Buffett ’s Omaha, Nebraska-based company
for more than 30 years. His net worth is estimated at more than
$900 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Propositions 30, 32 and 38 are among  11 measures  facing
voters, the most in a single California election since 2008.  A campaign to make California the first state to require
labeling of genetically modified foods, Proposition 37, has
drawn more than $34 million from opponents including  Monsanto
Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest seed producer,  DuPont Co. (DD) , the biggest
U.S. chemical maker by sales,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the world’s largest
snack-food maker,  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Nestle USA and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)   Proposition 31 would create a two-year state budget cycle.
Proposition 33 would allow auto insurers to set prices based on
whether a driver was previously covered by insurance.  Shadow of Death  A proposal to abolish the death penalty, Proposition 34,
would change the maximum sentence to life without parole, and
would apply retroactively to prisoners now on death row.  Proposition 35 would increase penalties for human
trafficking. An effort to change the state’s three-strikes law,
Proposition 36, would reduce the prison sentence for third-time
offenders whose latest crimes were “nonserious, nonviolent
felonies” from the minimum sentence of 25-years-to-life.  Proposition 39 would require multistate business to
calculate their California income-tax liability based on the
percentage of their sales in the state.  Charles Munger Jr. also gave more than $463,700 to support
Proposition 40, according to MapLight data. The measure would
let voters approve or reject the state senate redistricting plan
approved by the California Citizens Redistricting Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 