-- Turkcell Suit Over MTN-Iran Deal Postponed by U.S. Judge
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-12T20:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/turkcell-suit-over-mtn-iran-deal-postponed-by-u-s-judge.html
A lawsuit by Turkey’s biggest
mobile-phone operator alleging bribery by  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,
 Africa ’s largest wireless provider, was put on hold by a federal
judge who said a pending U.S. Supreme Court ruling may determine
whether the case can proceed.  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS, based in Istanbul,
contends the 1789 Alien Tort Statute gives it the right to sue
MTN in American courts, a stance opposed by MTN. U.S. District
Judge  Reggie Walton  in  Washington  said today that the issue may
be settled by the Supreme Court, which heard arguments in a case
involving the law on Oct. 1.  “Because the plaintiffs here premise jurisdiction in this
court under the Alien Tort Statute based on alleged violations
of the law of nations that occurred in foreign countries, the
Supreme Court’s decision in Kiobel could substantially impact
resolution of this case,” Walton said in his two-page order.  Turkcell sued its Johannesburg-based rival on March 28 for
$4.2 billion in damages over its loss of an Iranian mobile-phone
license it was initially awarded. The suit alleges MTN bribed
officials, arranged meetings between Iranian and South African
leaders, and promised  Iran  weapons and United Nations votes in
exchange for a license to provide wireless service in the
Islamic Republic.  Internal Memos  The complaint includes numerous alleged internal MTN memos
that detail the company’s efforts to win the Iranian business
after losing the bid to Turkcell in February 2004.  MTN fell less than 1 percent to 157.84 rand ($18.25) today
in Johannesburg  trading , almost erasing a loss of as much as 2.4
percent after the decision was announced.  Turkcell “believes jurisdiction is clear in the United
States courts and for that reason welcomes today’s order as an
efficient way for its claims to continue” before the court, the
company said in an e-mailed statement. “Turkcell looks forward
to addressing the issues, if any, raised by the  Supreme Court ’s
decision.”  MTN said in a statement it expects the Turkcell suit to be
“disposed of” after the Supreme Court issues its decision.  The Alien Tort Statute is usually cited in human rights and
torture cases. The law gives U.S. courts jurisdiction in some
instances to consider claims by foreigners for illegal conduct
that occurred in another country.  MTN asked Walton to dismiss the case, arguing that Turkcell
was trying to get paid by a “nonstate actor” for the Iranian
license. The U.S. court “has no business deciding this
dispute,” MTN said in a July 2 filing.  ‘Turkcell’s Right’  MTN’s promises to arrange South African votes favorable to
Iran at the  International Atomic Energy Agency  as well as arms
deals, and its payment of bribes “to steal Turkcell’s right to
the Iranian GSM license, clearly support Alien Tort Statute
jurisdiction here,” according to Turkcell’s Aug. 1 filing.  The Supreme Court is considering an Alien Tort Statute case
brought by a group of Nigerians who claim two units of  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  based outside the U.S. helped their government
commit torture and murders in the early 1990s. In Kiobel v.
Royal Dutch Petroleum Co., the Shell units said the Alien Tort
Statute doesn’t apply to conduct beyond U.S. borders.  In today’s order, Walton said that 14 days after the
Supreme Court rules in Kiobel, the parties must submit a joint
filing discussing what effect the ruling has on the case.  The Alien Tort Statute has been invoked by human-rights
activists more than 150 times in the past 20 years.  In arguments Oct. 1, the justices indicated they may throw
out the Nigerians’ suit.  Such a ruling would be a boost for companies that have
fought for years to undercut the statute. Highlighting the
importance of the case, more than a dozen publicly traded
companies filed briefs urging the court to limit the Alien Tort
Statute. The group included Coca-Cola Co., Chevron Corp., Ford
Motor Co. and GlaxoSmithKline Plc.  The case is  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  v. MTN Group
Ltd, 12-cv-479, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 