-- Turkey Moves Tanks to Hilltops Overlooking Syria
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-12T20:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/turkish-official-says-1-000-syrian-soldiers-have-deserted.html
Turkey  deployed tanks and missile
defense systems on hilltops overlooking  Syria  today, the state-
run Anatolia news agency said.  The deployment in Mursitpinar, near the border town of
Suruc, came hours after Turkey scrambled fighter jets after a
Syrian helicopter came close to the border, according to a
Turkish official who declined to be identified because the
information is sensitive.  Turkey has threatened to target Syrian military elements if
they pose a security threat, following the downing of a Turkish
military jet by Syria in June.  Turkey’s ties with Syria, once an ally, dramatically
deteriorated over Turkish backing for Syrian rebels fighting
forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Turkey fired
artillery in response to Syrian shelling that killed five people
in the Turkish border town of Akcakale on Oct. 3.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which called the
attack on Akcakale “a flagrant breach of international law,”
praised Turkey’s restraint on Oct. 9 and assured the Turkish
government of the alliance’s military support if it’s attacked.  Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  survived an opposition
censure motion in parliament today for allegedly bringing Turkey
to the brink of war with Syria.  The ruling  Justice and Development Party  used its almost 60
percent majority in the 550-seat parliament to defeat the motion
by the  Republican People’s Party .  Syrian Denials  In an interview published in the Turkish newspaper Aydinlik
today, Assad denied Turkish accusations that Syria was aiding
militants from the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, also known by its
Kurdish acronym PKK, an armed separatist group in Turkey’s
southeast.  “The Turkish government is circulating these claims to
legitimize its support to armed groups” fighting the
government, Assad said, according to the newspaper.  About 500 Syrian officers, including 40 generals, and 500
soldiers have deserted to Turkey since fighting broke out
between rebels and government forces in March 2011, Suphi Atan,
a Foreign Ministry official, said by phone today from the border
province of Kilis.  At least 210 people were killed across Syria yesterday,
including 47 in Idlib, the opposition Local Coordination
Committees said in an e-mailed statement. It said 51 people were
killed today and that the rebels have captured the 80th Brigade
air defense base in Aleppo.  Cargo Seized  The base was taken by rebels and Sunni fundamentalist
fighters from the al-Qaeda-linked Al-Nusra Front to Protect the
Levant, Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights , an opposition activist group, said by telephone
from Coventry,  England .  Turkey forced a Syrian passenger plane from  Russia , with 17
Russians on board, to land in Ankara on Oct. 10 and confiscated
its cargo on grounds that it included military equipment and
munitions for the Syrian  Defense Ministry . Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said yesterday the cargo was sent from “a
Russian institution” equivalent to Turkey’s state arms
manufacturer.  The plane was carrying 12 crates of technical components
for radar stations that are part of Syria’s air-defense systems,
Moscow-based Kommersant  reported  today, without saying where it
got the information.  More Refugees  Davutoglu was scheduled to meet United Nations Special
Envoy to Syria Lakhdar Brahimi and German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  in Istanbul tomorrow to discuss mounting tensions
with Syria, state-run Anatolia news agency said today.  Turkey shelters 99,500 refugees in camps along the border,
and another 14,000 Syrians are waiting to cross into the
country, Atan said.  “We are accepting 600 to 700 Syrians daily,” Atan said.
Turkey has 15 refugee camps along the 911-kilometer (569-mile)
border with Syria and is building two more, he said.  About 8,000 people are waiting across the border point of
Oncupinar in Kilis, Atan said. The rest are scattered along
border areas in Hatay and Sanliurfa provinces.  Turkey, which has been distributing food and humanitarian
supplies to refugees who remain on the Syrian side of the
border, has appealed to the UN to shoulder the burden of
sheltering Syrians who have fled the fighting between rebels and
government forces.  Some Syrian refugees were using small boats to cross the
Orontes River, which runs through the border, NTV television
footage showed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  