-- Van Rompuy Seeks Balance for Non-Euro Nations Under Supervisor
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-12T12:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/van-rompuy-seeks-balance-for-non-euro-nations-under-supervisor.html
The European Union must ensure fair
treatment of non-euro area nations that sign up to plans for a
single bank supervisor, according to a report released today by
EU President  Herman Van Rompuy .  The adoption of shared oversight of banks is a “matter of
priority,” according to the report, which will be discussed at
a meeting of EU leaders next week. The euro area also needs a
single authority to handle failing banks, as well as “national
deposit guarantee schemes built on common standards.”  The rules underpinning the single supervisor should strike
“a balance between rights and obligations for all member states
participating in the new supervisory arrangements,” according
to the report, which was prepared by  Van Rompuy  in collaboration
with European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  and Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-area finance ministers.  Euro-area efforts to pave the way for direct bailouts of
banks by its firewall fund have foundered because of concerns
that plans to build a single euro-area bank supervisor, based
around the  European Central Bank , would hurt nations outside the
common currency. All 27 EU nations must approve the oversight
proposal for it to move forward.  Finance ministers, meeting this week in Luxembourg,
acknowledged the EU is unlikely to implement the new supervision
regime by the start of 2013 as initially hoped. Any delays mean
a longer wait for  Spain , which is looking to hand off its
financial-sector rescue to the 500 billion-euro ($648 billion)
European Stability Mechanism once the new system is in place.  “The crisis has brought about a fragmentation of the euro-
area financial market, with adverse implications for credit
conditions,” according to the report. “The establishment of an
integrated financial framework is necessary.”  The supervisory plan must include an overhaul of voting
rules at the European Banking Authority, according to the
report.  Procedures at the EBA, which has powers across the entire
EU to draft regulations and settle disputes between supervisors,
“must be adapted to allow for fair representation and effective
decision-making within the single market for financial
services,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  