-- Vanguard to JPMorgan Dodging Neediest Borrowers: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-10-12T15:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/vanguard-to-jpmorgan-dodging-neediest-borrowers-credit-markets.html
Investors from Vanguard Group Inc.
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. are shunning bonds from the neediest
borrowers as a slowing economy sends the default rate for
companies that ratings firms deem to be in “poor standing” to
the highest level since 2009.  Vanguard’s $18.4 billion fund that buys junk bonds is
“incrementally taking down risk on a credit-by-credit basis,”
said Dan Newhall, principal at the biggest U.S. mutual-fund
firm. J.P. Morgan Asset Management has been reducing debt from
companies more affected by lower consumer spending and has
“dramatically” decreased holdings of securities ranked CCC
since 2009, said Bill Morgan, a high-yield fund manager.  Waning demand signals turbulence in the $173 billion
bottom-tier of the junk market, where Standard & Poor’s says the
default rate of borrowers from Energy Future Holdings Corp. to
 Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  reached 27.2 percent in August, up
10 percentage points from a year earlier. Returns are slowing
even as prices hover at about 14-month highs, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “There’s not a whole lot of upside at these average
prices,” said Newhall, who spoke on behalf of Wellington
Management Co., which manages the Vanguard fund on a daily
basis. “Demand from funds and institutional buyers is far
outstripping the net high-yield new supply, and that’s leading
people to bid up the prices.”  Defaults Rise  With sales of high-yield bonds proceeding at a record pace,
borrowers graded B and lower sold the greatest proportion of new
junk debt in September in 12 months, accounting for 37.7 percent
of the month’s issuance, S&P data show.  Obligations in the bottom ratings tier are “judged to be
of poor standing and are subject to very high credit risk,”
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Even as bond investors accept looser terms from
speculative-grade companies, S&P has tallied 61 defaults this
year, compared with 34 in the same period of 2011, the ratings
firm said yesterday.  “Given where valuations are, investors have to be much
more careful,” said Andrew Jessop, a high-yield fund manager at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees the world’s
biggest bond fund. “In the CCC sector, you have to be quite
cautious with the companies you’re buying.”  Credit Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. declined. The Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 0.7 basis point to a mid-price of 96.6 basis points as
of 11:17 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 1.44 basis point to 10.81 basis points
as of 11:16 a.m. in New York. That’s the lowest level on an
intra-day basis since March 2010 for the gauge, which narrows
when investors favor assets such as company debentures and
widens when they seek the perceived safety of government
securities.  JPMorgan Bonds  Bonds of JPMorgan are the most actively traded dollar-
denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with 51
trades of $1 million or more as of 11:22 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The biggest U.S. bank
by assets reported record third-quarter profit today that beat
analysts’ estimates as mortgage revenue soared 72 percent.  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next year, the
International Monetary Fund said Oct. 9, compared with July
predictions of 3.5 percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013. The
Washington-based lender now sees “alarmingly high” risks of a
steeper slowdown, with a one-in-six chance of growth slipping
below 2 percent.  Third-quarter profits and sales for companies in the  S&P
500 (SPX)  probably fell in unison for the first time in three years,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Per-
share earnings may have dropped 1.7 percent on average after
they were little changed in the second quarter. Sales may have
slipped 0.6 percent, the data show.  Record Sales  Returns of 0.48 percent this month on the lowest tier of
junk bonds bring gains to 16.7 percent for 2012 on the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield, CCC and Lower Rated
index. That compares with 15.9 percent this year on the S&P 500
index and 12.7 percent for all junk bonds. The debt returned
1.58 percent in the corresponding period of September.  While the fundamental credit quality of high-yield notes
remains strong in general, “demand from funds and institutional
buyers is far outstripping the net high-yield new supply,” said
Newhall, the head of oversight and manager search at Vanguard.  Michael Hong, the  Vanguard High-Yield Corporate Fund (VWEHX) 
manager, “is concerned about the high prices of some of these
bonds that people are willing to pay today,” Newhall said.  The average price on the lowest-rated bonds has risen to
91.97 cents on the dollar from 83.36 cents at the end of 2011,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Prices reached
92.86 cents on Sept. 19, the highest level since August 2011.  PIK Toggles  Investors funneled a record $33.8 billion into U.S. funds
that buy speculative-grade notes, JPMorgan said in a Sept. 28
report. The funds reported $1.2 billion of outflows in the
following two weeks, the data show.  Sales in the U.S. of junk bonds, rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- at S&P, are proceeding at an
unprecedented pace, with issuance of $262.7 billion exceeding
the $210.6 billion sold in the corresponding period of 2010, the
busiest year on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A Moody’s measure of weakness in bondholder protections
included in U.S. junk-rated debt increased to 3.94 in September,
the worst since November. The gauge, known as a covenant-quality
score, compares with 3.71 in August and a 2012 average of 3.72
through last week, according to Moody’s.  In the past month, offerings of so-called payment-in-kind
notes accounted for $2.6 billion of the $6.5 billion of deals
this year, Bloomberg data show. PIK toggle bonds allow borrowers
to elect to pay  interest  in cash or through issuing more debt,
or a combination of the options, generally within the first few
years of the bond’s term, according to Moody’s.  Most Vulnerable  “There are components of the market that we tend to
shun,” including PIK bonds and note sales used to pay
dividends, JPMorgan’s Morgan said in a telephone interview from
Cincinnati. “It’s just recently that we’ve started to see some
degradation in the underwriting cycle.”  When relative yields contract enough, JPMorgan tends to
sell riskier holdings, which may carry the lowest ratings or be
from companies that managers view as most vulnerable, Morgan
said. Spreads on junk bonds reached 557 basis points yesterday,
down from this year’s high of 723 on June 5, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  The firm has recently taken money out of cyclical companies
and increased debt from borrowers that are less susceptible to
consumers’ willingness to spend money on discretionary items.
JPMorgan Asset Management’s junk-bond portfolio has a lower
proportion of debt with CCC and BB ratings versus comparable
indexes and a higher proportion of B rated notes, Morgan said.  Energy Future  The 12-month-trailing default rate on the lowest-rated
speculative-grade companies compares with 17.2 percent in August
2011 and is the highest since reaching 54 percent in November
2009, S&P data show.  The $16 billion of CCC tier notes from Dallas-based Energy
Future, the electricity producer formerly known as TXU Corp.,
has lost 0.3 percent in October, while Caesars’s $6.8 billion of
the debt declined 1.13 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  “It pays to be even more selective by credit” after this
year’s rally, Pimco’s Jessop said. “You’ll start to see
earnings will no longer be supportive for parts of the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  