-- Weidmann Sees German Economy Stagnating in Second Half of 2012
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-10-12T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/weidmann-sees-german-economy-stagnating-in-second-half-of-2012.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
said the German economy,  Europe ’s largest, is in good condition
even though growth will stagnate in the second half of the year.  “The German economy continues to be in robust shape but
increasingly feels the inner-European adjustment process and
uncertainty stemming from the sovereign debt crisis,” Weidmann
told reporters in Tokyo today. “For the second half of the
year, we expect stagnation.”  The  International Monetary Fund  this week cut its German
growth forecast for 2013 to 0.9 percent from 1.4 percent, the
same expansion rate projected for this year. Business confidence
unexpectedly declined in September to the lowest in more than 2
1/2 years and factory orders and industrial production fell in
August.  Even though the “the global economy is in a difficult
situation,” that’s no reason to be pessimistic about the
outlook, Weidmann said. “The adjustment process in Europe has
started. But this process is only at the beginning.”  Weidmann said governments shouldn’t rely on the  European
Central Bank  to solve the sovereign debt crisis that has already
pushed five countries into seeking bailouts.  “I’m a bit concerned that hopes and expectations of
politicians increasingly are focused on central banks,”
Weidmann said. “It’s important to stress that monetary policy
is no secret medicine. It can’t solve the problems and can only
provide liquidity within its mandate. In the end, the causes for
the crisis can only be solved by governments.”  Weidmann said one has to be aware that any extension of the
time frame of  Greece ’s adjustment program will come with higher
financing needs.  The Bundesbank, together with nine other contributors, will
today sign bilateral loan agreements that will boost the IMF’s
fire power, Weidmann said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Tokyo  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  