-- WellPoint Reorganize in Interim CEO’s First Major Move
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-10-12T20:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/wellpoint-reorganize-in-interim-ceo-s-first-major-move.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
U.S. health insurer, will reorganize into four business units in
the first major move undertaken by interim Chief Executive
Officer John Cannon.  In a memo sent to employees today, Cannon said the changes
will help smooth the integration of  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP) , the
insurer Indianapolis-based WellPoint agreed to buy in July for
$4.9 billion. The reorganization will put Amerigroup CEO James Carlson in charge of the combined company’s Medicaid business,
while Chief Financial Officer Wayne DeVeydt remains in his job,
according to the memo obtained by Bloomberg.  The moves follow former CEO Angela Braly’s investor-
initiated resignation on Aug. 28, after five years in which the
insurer struggled at times to predict medical costs and keep
enrollments up. Cannon was named interim CEO, and the board said
he wasn’t interested in being the permanent replacement.  “Each business unit will be provided the resources,
decision-making authority and direct control over matters that
are critical to its success,” Cannon wrote in the memo,
confirmed as authentic by Kristin Binns, a spokeswoman.  Separate Medicare and Medicaid  divisions  will each sell
plans for those government-backed insurance programs, according
to the memo. A commercial and individual unit will handle sales
to large and small employers, individual customers and those
buying in the new insurance exchanges created in the federal
health-care law. Dental, vision and disability coverage will be
under a specialty unit, the memo said.  Division Leaders  Carlson will run the Medicaid division, Leeba Lessin the
Medicare unit, Lori Beer the specialty unit and Kenneth Goulet
the commercial and individual business. Goulet and Carlson have
been named by analysts as potential replacements for Braly.  Binns declined to comment on the CEO search.  The  reorganization  was made “to evaluate and modify our
organizational structure so that we are best positioned to take
advantage of the tremendous growth opportunities that lie
ahead,” she said. “We have the right strategy and the right
people in place to ensure that WellPoint will continue to be the
most trusted choice for health care consumers.”  WellPoint slipped 1.5 percent to $61.83 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. The shares have dropped 6.7 percent this year.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , is
the biggest U.S. health insurer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  