-- Biden Shows Obama How to Debate
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-12T08:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/what-joe-biden-can-teach-barack-obama-about-debating.html
If the vice presidency, as John
Nance Garner famously said, isn’t worth a bucket of warm spit,
then what’s a vice-presidential debate worth?  As it turns out, thankfully, something more than a bucket
of warm spit. Last night’s sit-down between Vice President  Joe Biden  and Republican vice-presidential nominee  Paul Ryan  was
useful in both substance and style. It may not have changed many
minds, but it clarified a lot of differences.  First, the substance. The candidates  discussed  a lot of
foreign policy, a fair amount of economics and a few social
issues. On foreign policy, Biden was clearly more comfortable
and experienced, calling other national leaders by their nicknames and repeatedly -- and rightly -- asking Ryan what he
and his running mate would do differently. (“We’ve disagreed
from time to time on a few issues,” was the best Ryan could do
on  Afghanistan .) Martha Raddatz, the debate’s moderator, gamely
tried to pin down both candidates on specifics of their plans to
raise taxes and reduce the deficit, but made little headway.  One of the more revealing contrasts between the candidates
was on abortion. Ryan was unapologetic: “I believe life begins
at conception,” he said, and under President  Mitt Romney , the
policy would be to oppose abortions with the exceptions of rape,
incest and to save the life of the mother. It was an admirably
honest answer. Biden said he, too, accepted his church’s belief
about when life begins, “but I refuse to impose it on equally
devout Christians and Muslims and Jews.”  To say that Biden got the better of the argument is not to
diminish the achievement of that moment: illuminating an
authentic difference of opinion and approach on a matter of
public import. It’s hardly breaking news that the parties
disagree on this issue. But there’s something to be said for
forcing their candidates to articulate their differences.  Of course, a debate is more than just words. It is
theatrics: rolled eyes, raised eyebrows, furrowed brows, grins
and smirks, even an occasional look-to-the-skies-and-throw-up-
your-arms-I-can’t-believe-my-opponent-just-said-that  gesture .
How you feel about this stuff is  largely a function  of how you
feel about the candidates.  Take, for instance, that word “stuff.” At one point Biden
complained that Ryan’s view on the  Middle East  “was a bunch of
stuff.” At another point, he called out Ryan for spouting “a
bunch of malarkey.” By one count, he interrupted Ryan  82 times .
Ryan, for his part, was polite and deferential. He created no
Twitter hashtags or trending terms on Google.  We could decry these developments as  inappropriate for  a
serious debate. Forgive us if we resist the temptation. First,
serious is not a synonym for dull. Part of the art of politics
is getting people to pay attention, and a little humor and
theatricality can serve the cause.  Second, in debates perhaps more so than on the campaign
trail, style matters. Biden’s avuncular persona -- whether you
find it endearing or condescending -- is useful information for
an undecided voter. So is Ryan’s wonky persona -- whether you
find it refreshing or hard-hearted.  It may be that Biden was playing not to undecided voters,
of which there are astonishingly few, but to Democrats depressed
by President  Barack Obama ’s  desultory performance  in last week’s
presidential debate. If that was Biden’s job, he succeeded. What
he did not do -- nor did Ryan, with his competent and respectful
presentation -- is change the dynamics of the race in the way
that Romney and Obama did last week.  Which brings us back to the central point of the night:
This was a vice-presidential debate. Like the vice presidency
itself, a vice-presidential debate is forever destined to matter
less than a presidential one. (In the spirit of the season,
fact check: There is  some question  as to whether it is a bucket
or a pitcher, and whether it is spit or another four-letter
substance. We now return to our regular programming.)  As Biden and Ryan showed, however, it is possible to have a
debate between two ideologically antagonistic candidates that is
informative, spirited, civil and even entertaining. We hope
their running mates -- especially the president -- were taking
notes for their next meeting on Oct. 16.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  improving U.S. food safety ;
Stephen L. Carter on  which facts last the longest ; William Pesek
on  economist Raghuram Rajan’s return to India ;  Jonathan Weil  on
 funny numbers companies use  to burnish their earnings; Richard
Vedder on  what colleges aren’t telling  prospective students.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 