-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Rise More Than Forecast on Fuel
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-10-12T12:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-rise-more-than-forecast-on-fuel.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in September, reflecting a jump in fuel costs
that failed to trickle down to other goods.  The  producer price index  climbed 1.1 percent after a 1.7
percent gain in August, the Labor Department reported today in
 Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 76
economists called for a 0.8 percent increase. So-called  core 
producer inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy
prices, was unchanged, the first time it didn’t increase since
October 2011.  Facing a global economic slowdown, businesses may have
difficulty passing higher energy costs onto customers, keeping a
lid on prices. In addition, weak demand from abroad and in the
U.S. will probably prevent the cost of raw materials from
flaring, limiting inflation pressures and allowing the  Federal
Reserve  to focus on jump-starting employment growth.  “Inflation is still non-problematic,” said  Avery
Shenfeld , chief economist at the Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in Toronto, who correctly forecast the jump in the
price index. “The Fed has made clear that getting unemployment
down is priority number one as long as inflation is reasonably
contained, and we don’t see anything that’s going to shift that
in the near term.”  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the report.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
December rose 0.2 percent to 1,431.7 at 8:46 a.m. in  New York .
 Treasury securities  dropped, erasing earlier gains and bringing
the yield on the benchmark 10-year note to 1.66 percent, little
changed from 1.67 percent late yesterday.  Survey Results  Economists’ estimates for the  price index  ranged from an
unchanged reading to a gain of 1.7 percent. Core prices were
projected to climb 0.2 percent, the Bloomberg survey showed.  Compared with a year ago, companies paid 2.1 percent more
for inputs after paying 2 percent more in the 12 months ended
August. The core index increased 2.3 percent in the year ended
in September, the smallest 12-month advance since June 2011.  The increase in the producer price index was led by a 4.7
percent jump in energy prices. The cost of gasoline climbed 9.8
percent, while diesel fuel surged 9.2 percent, the most since
December 2010, the report showed.  Core prices were restrained by a 0.7 percent drop in the
cost of communications gear, the biggest decrease in more than
eight years. Prices for computers and related equipment dropped
1.5 percent, the most since August 2011, helping to offset a 0.3
percent gain in light motor trucks.  Production Line  Price pressures bubbled up all the way down the production
line reflecting the cost of fuel, according to today’s data. The
price of intermediate goods climbed 1.5 percent, and crude costs
rose 2.8 percent.  “In regards to inflation, we have seen rising costs in
commodity-related products throughout the year although at lower
levels than last year,” William Giles, chief financial officer
at  AutoZone Inc. (AZO) , said during a Sept. 19 earnings call. “We
expect subdued producer pricing heading into the new year, and
therefore we feel costs will be predictable and manageable.”  With subdued inflation, the Fed can focus on the other part
of its dual mandate: achieving full employment. The central bank
said Sept. 13 it would buy $40 billion of mortgage bonds a month
until the U.S. sees what Chairman Ben S. Bernanke described as
an “ongoing, sustained improvement in the labor market.” The
Fed also said it would probably hold its target lending rate
near zero at least through mid-2015.  Fed’s View  “Members generally continued to anticipate that, with
longer-term inflation expectations stable and given the existing
slack in resource utilization, inflation over the medium term
would run at or below the Committee’s longer-run objective of 2
percent,” according to the minutes of the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s Sept. 12-13 meeting.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. The  consumer price index , due
Oct. 16, rose 0.5 percent in September following a 0.6 percent
gain the prior month, according to the median estimate in the
Bloomberg survey. The cost of goods imported into the U.S. rose
1.1 percent last month, reflecting higher fuel costs, Labor
Department data showed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  