-- World Trade Center Says Canadian Firm Holds Tower Hostage
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-10-13T16:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/world-trade-center-sues-to-get-delivery-of-antenna-steel.html
The agency that owns  1 World Trade
Center , the skyscraper under construction in lower  Manhattan  at
the site of the twin towers destroyed in 2001, sued a steel firm
for holding “hostage” the spire that is to top the building.  ADF Steel Corp., a structural steel fabricator, was sued
over claims it failed to deliver materials as part of a separate
contract fight. The parts are needed to finish the building, to
be the tallest in the U.S., the  Port Authority  of  New York  and
 New Jersey  said in a complaint yesterday in New York state court.  “ADF refuses to ship this antenna steel unless and until
it receives approximately $6 million allegedly owed under
another project, as ransom,” the Port Authority said in the
complaint.  At more than 400 feet, the antenna would allow the building,
formerly called the “freedom tower,” to reach a symbolic
height of 1,776 feet, according to a  website  for the project. It
will be the Western Hemisphere’s tallest building and serve as a
“symbol of recovery” after the original towers collapsed in
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, according to the complaint.  Withhold Steel  ADF had promised it wouldn’t withhold steel for the spire,
which costs $10 million, regardless of the previous contract
dispute, according to the complaint. About 100 ironworkers could
be laid off if “they have no steel to erect,” the Port
Authority said.  Eric Ducharme, marketing director for Terrebonne, Quebec-
based  ADF Group Inc., (DRX)  didn’t immediately return a call yesterday
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The Port Authority asked the court for an order requiring
ADF to deliver the steel.  “Due to the iconic character of 1 WTC Tower and the
enormous complexities surrounding its erection, leasing and
opening, money damages cannot adequately compensate for the harm
ADF is causing with every passing day that it refuses to deliver
the antenna steel,” the lawyers said in the complaint.  The case is WTC Tower 1 LLC v. ADF Steel Corp., 653580-
2012,  Supreme Court  of New York, County of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York federal court
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York State Supreme Court
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  