-- Wrestling Magnate Keeps Up Attacks in Connecticut Race
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/wrestling-magnate-keeps-up-attacks-in-connecticut-race.html
Republican U.S. Senate contender
 Linda McMahon , a former professional wrestling executive who
sometimes entered the ring, answered a plea to cease personal
attacks with a renewed assault against Chris Murphy, her
Democratic opponent, in their second debate.  McMahon, 64, portrayed herself as a job creator and tax
cutter, and said Murphy hasn’t got a jobs plan. Murphy, 39,
accused her of smearing his character with attack advertisements
and said she wouldn’t explain her positions on entitlement
programs, women’s reproductive rights and health care, during
the forum yesterday at the  University of Connecticut  in Storrs.  “I think you asked Linda McMahon about whether she was
going to stop the character assaults,” Murphy said to the
moderator amid applause in the half-full hall after the
Republican questioned a home loan he got.  “Congressman Murphy talks about everything but jobs
because he has no plan,” she said in response. “I would only
say, ‘please release the documents’” about the loan, she said.  Personal finances dominated much of the discussion, echoing
attack ads that have flooded the airwaves in  Connecticut  with 25
days to go before the Nov. 6 election. The race in the largely
Democratic state has drawn national attention as McMahon pulled
ahead of Murphy in recent voter surveys. She lost her first
Senate campaign two years ago after spending more than $46
million of her personal fortune on the bid. At stake may be
control of the chamber, where Democrats hold a slim majority.  Replacing Lieberman  The candidates are vying for the chance to succeed U.S.
Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Democrat turned independent who decided
against seeking re-election. He has mostly voted with Democrats.  McMahon has tried to hone a softer image to gain support
among women, a group that went against her in the failed 2010
campaign. The  World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. (WWE)  co-founder was
hobbled then by attacks as a promoter of violent and
misogynistic shows produced by the company she ran with her
husband, Vince McMahon. The couple and their children often
appeared on camera, entering the ring clad in business attire.
Sometimes she kicked opponents in the groin.  The Republican, who left her  Stamford , Connecticut-based
company in 2009, has used TV ads to attack Murphy over his
congressional record while portraying herself as a grandmother
who built a company in the state and will bring an outsider’s
views to  Washington . She has spent almost $20 million on this
year’s campaign following her 2010 defeat by former state
Attorney General  Richard Blumenthal , a Democrat.  Jobs, Jobs  Referring to herself as someone “who values showing up at
work,” McMahon said Murphy is a career politician who has
supported failed policies, tying him to the nation’s ballooning
debt and an  unemployment rate  that last month fell below 8
percent for the first time since January 2009.  Murphy branded her as a hypocrite after she walked away
from her debts by declaring bankruptcy in the 1970s and said she
had been evasive on her policy stances.  “Linda McMahon is addicted to personal attacks,” said
Murphy, who has represented the state’s Fifth District in
Congress since 2007. She “cannot talk about the issues. She
doesn’t want to tell people what she stands for,” he said.  McMahon said Murphy failed to turn up for congressional
hearings 75 percent of the time. As for her debts, she replied,
“I eventually paid them back,” drawing laughter from the
crowd.  Pressing Attacks  Murphy needs to provide details about his loan and explain
his congressional record, McMahon said. She defended an ad that
says he got a special deal on a mortgage from a bank that
received federal aid because of his position in the U.S. House
of Representatives.  McMahon’s ads, coupled with years of campaigning, have
helped her narrow a gap among women and build a 9 percentage
point lead with independents, according to an Oct. 4 survey from
Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University . It gave McMahon
an edge, with 48 percent to Murphy’s 47 percent, though the
difference had narrowed from 49 percent for McMahon to 46
percent for Murphy in its Aug. 28 poll of likely voters.  Murphy, who previously served in the state Senate and
House, narrowed the gap in recent weeks by attacking tax breaks
McMahon got as a corporate chief executive officer and the
profit her company produced.  Narrowing Gaps  While still trailing Murphy among women, with those likely
to vote favoring the congressman 50 percent to 44 percent for
McMahon, she has made inroads, according to Doug Schwartz, the
head of Quinnipiac’s polling institute. The debates may help
Murphy because he isn’t well-known statewide, and they may hurt
McMahon with women if she seems too aggressive, Schwartz said.  McMahon has also benefited from a narrower margin of
support for President  Barack Obama  in the state compared with
four years ago, according to Schwartz. Obama led  Mitt Romney ,
his Republican challenger, in the fight for Connecticut’s seven
electoral votes, 54 percent to 42 percent in the Oct. 4 poll.
Obama beat  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , the 2008 Republican
nominee, by 23 precentage points in the Nutmeg State.  More women supported McMahon than Romney, with Obama, a
Democrat, holding a 59 percent to 37 percent lead over Romney in
that category, according to the survey last week. Among
independents, she led 52 percent to 43 percent for Murphy.  Voters had a more favorable view of McMahon than Murphy,
the Quinnipiac poll showed. More respondents had a negative view
of the Democrat, 40 percent to 36 percent positive in the
survey, while 45 percent had a positive opinion of the
Republican to 41 percent negative.  “Her favorability is one of her assets,” Schwartz said
before the second debate. “She’s built up this positive image.
But she risks hurting her image if she goes too hard against
Murphy. That could backfire.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 