-- Yankees Face Game 5 With Orioles; Giants, Tigers Advance in MLB
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-12T05:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-12/yankees-face-game-5-with-orioles-giants-tigers-advance-in-mlb.html
The  New York Yankees  must play a
decisive Game 5 in their Major League Baseball playoff series
after losing 2-1 to the  Baltimore Orioles  in 13 innings.  A night after falling to the Yankees in 12 innings, the
Orioles got doubles by Manny Machado and J.J. Hardy to score the
tie-breaking run that evened the best-of-five American League
Division Series at two games apiece. Game 5 is set for 5:07 p.m.
Eastern time today in New York.  “It’s playoff baseball and the games are extremely
tight,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said in a news conference.
“Usually the difference in these games is one hit.”  The winner of the series will move on to face the  Detroit
Tigers , who won Game 5 of their division series against the
Oakland Athletics 6-0 last night as  Justin Verlander  pitched a
four-hit shutout and struck out 11.  “When Verlander gets on a roll like he was today,
especially when he gets in his rhythm, it’s tough to stop him,”
Oakland manager  Bob Melvin  said at a news conference. “It’s
like a locomotive going at a high speed.”  The  San Francisco  Giants beat the Cincinnati Reds 6-4 to
become the first National League team to win a best-of-five
division series after losing the first two games. They next face
the Washington Nationals or St.  Louis Cardinals , who will play a
decisive Game 5 today in the nation’s capital.  The Yankees began yesterday as 11-4 favorites to win the
World Series, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. The
Tigers were given 5-1 odds, while the Giants were at 7-1.  The wins yesterday by the Orioles and Nationals mean all
four division series went the full five games this postseason.  Extra-Inning Streaks  After four scoreless innings at Yankee Stadium, Nate McLouth hit a home run leading off the fifth against New York
starter  Phil Hughes .  Robinson Cano  tied it for the Yankees in
the sixth on a run-scoring groundout.  The Orioles, who had won 16 consecutive extra-inning games
before the loss two nights ago in New York, broke a 10-game home
winning streak in extra-inning games by the Yankees.  “We had to win,” Hardy told reporters. “All game I was
trying to get myself not to do too much, and that wasn’t working,
so on that at-bat I told myself to do a little more.”  The Yankees and Orioles each used eight pitchers last night.
Today, New York will send CC Sabathia to the mound against
Baltimore’s Jason Hammel.  New York’s  Alex Rodriguez , who is fifth on the MLB home run
list with 647 and is the highest-paid player in the major
leagues this season at $29 million, was taken out for a pinch-
hitter with the game on the line for the second straight night.  Pinch-Hit Again  Rodriguez, 37, was moved down two places to the No. 5 spot
in the Yankees’ lineup last night, a day after being lifted in
the ninth inning in favor of pinch-hitter  Raul Ibanez  -- who hit
a game-tying home run and then won the game in the 12th inning
with another home run.  Last night, Rodriguez went 1-for-4 with two strikeouts --
leaving him 2-for-16 this postseason -- before being taken out
for pinch-hitter  Eric Chavez  with two outs in the 13th inning.
Chavez lined out to third base to end the game.  Verlander, 29, the AL Cy Young Award winner as the league’s
best pitcher in 2011, never allowed the A’s to get a runner to
third base. He was drenched with champagne by teammates in the
winning clubhouse after the game.  “It was awesome and horrible at the same time because you
can’t see a thing,” Verlander told reporters. “Having your
teammates around you and dumping champagne on you is a feeling
I’ll never forget.”  Austin Jackson drove in two runs and scored two for the
Tigers, who won the series three games to two. After the game,
as the Tigers celebrated on the field, several Detroit players
tipped their caps to the Athletics.  Salary Disparities  The A’s began the season 29th in the major leagues with a
$55 million payroll, compared to fifth-highest Detroit at $132
million, according to USA Today’s annual survey. The Oakland
roster was assembled by General Manager Billy Beane, whose
philosophy of evaluating players was the topic of  Michael Lewis ’s book “Moneyball.” Lewis is a Bloomberg columnist.  Oakland is 1-6 in postseason series since Beane took over
as general manager after the 1997 season, with the lone win
coming against the  Minnesota Twins  in 2006.  “First of all, let me congratulate the Oakland
organization on a magical year,” Tigers manager  Jim Leyland 
said at the start of his news conference. “They’re the real
deal.”  Buster Posey’s grand slam capped a six-run fifth inning for
the Giants, who lost two games at home before sweeping three in
Cincinnati. All five games in the series were won by the
visiting team, also an NL first.  Posey’s Slam  “We’ve got a bunch of fighters, I don’t think anybody gave
up,” Posey said in a television interview. “We didn’t make it
easy on ourselves, that’s for sure.”  The Giants-Reds game at Great American Ball Park in
Cincinnati was scoreless until the fifth inning, when Brandon
Crawford had a run-scoring triple and scored on an error before
Posey’s bases-clearing home run.  The Reds got a two-run double from  Brandon Phillips  in the
fifth, a solo home run from Ryan Ludwick in the sixth inning and
a run-scoring single by Ludwick in the ninth.  The Nationals tied their series with the defending  World
Series  champion Cardinals with a 2-1 home win yesterday when
 Jayson Werth  hit a home run leading off the ninth inning.  Washington took a 1-0 lead in the second inning at
Nationals Park on a solo home run by Adam LaRoche. The Cardinals
tied it in the third on a sacrifice fly by  Carlos Beltran  that
scored Pete Kozma.  The game remained tied until the bottom of the ninth inning,
when Werth hit a leadoff home run on the 13th pitch of his at-
bat to seal the win for the Nationals. It was the 14th career
postseason home run for Werth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  