-- Abortion Ban at 20 Weeks of Pregnancy Wins Texas House Vote
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-24T15:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/abortion-ban-at-20-weeks-of-pregnancy-wins-texas-house-approval.html
The  Texas  House approved a ban on
abortions at 20 weeks of pregnancy and required facilities that
perform the procedure to meet the standards of surgical centers,
which would force the majority of clinics in the state to
upgrade or close.  The Texas Senate is scheduled to consider the legislation
tomorrow. That chamber last week approved a version that didn’t
include the 20-week ban. Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a
Republican, supports the restrictions.  The House measure, approved in a 95-to-34 vote today, might
force the closing of abortion clinics that can’t afford to meet
standards of surgical standards, according to abortion-rights
advocates. The legislation would require abortions be performed
in ambulatory surgical centers and require doctors who do them
to have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles (50
kilometers) of their clinic.  “This is truly about  patient safety ,” said State
Representative Greg Bonnen, a Republican and a neurosurgeon who
voted for the measure. “Anyone who says the current status quo
is satisfactory is not paying attention.”  Republican-led states increasingly have restricted when and
how women can end their pregnancies. Some measures, including
20-week bans that have passed in at least 10 states since 2010,
face legal challenges and haven’t taken effect.  ‘Costly Litigation’  “We know that restricting abortions actually harms women’s
health,” said State Representative Jessica Farrar, a Democrat.
“If this bill passes, we can be sure the state will be subject
to costly litigation.”  Courts in  Arizona ,  Georgia  and  Idaho  have struck down or
issued injunctions on similar laws including the 20-week
restriction, Farrar said.  Of 44 clinics in Texas, six meet surgical-center
guidelines, according to an analysis by the Texas Senate
Research Center, an arm of the chamber. Texas has more stringent
requirements for the centers, compared with abortion clinics,
that cover heating and ventilation systems, employee hiring,
room size and fire alarms.  Hundreds of demonstrators gathered yesterday and today at
the Texas capitol in Austin as the House debated the measure.
Many of the protesters wore orange t-shirts reading “Stand With
Texas Women.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  