-- Labour Seeks to Ban Discrimination Against Reservists
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-06-24T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/labour-seeks-to-ban-discrimination-against-reservists.html
The U.K. opposition Labour party is
considering legislation to stop employers discriminating against
military reservists because of unpredictable working patterns,
its defense spokesman, Jim Murphy, will say today.  Murphy will announce that Labour wants to encourage
businesses to employ reservists, saying companies should be
given as much warning as possible about their deployment and
training, including the possible staggering of large-scale troop
movements in future wars, according to his office. In return,
part-time soldiers would have to be open about their membership
of the forces when applying for a job.  Defense budget cuts mean the U.K. is scaling back its
regular military and relying on doubling its number of
reservists to 30,000 by 2020. Research by the  Federation of
Small Businesses  found 36 percent of respondents saying nothing
would encourage them to employ a member of the backup forces.
The federation received 1,836 responses to an online poll
between December 2012 and January 2013.  “It is our strong belief that the government should
consult with employers specifically on new legislation to
prevent against the discrimination in hiring reservists,
something which would need to be coupled with an obligation of
transparency from reservists to declare their status,” Murphy
will say in a speech in London. “If the government do not do
this, Labour will take action.”  One way to do this would be for Labour to use a so-called
private members’ bill to introduce the necessary legislation in
Parliament.  Figures in a written answer to Parliament on March 18
showed 2,050 people signed up to join the part-time Territorial
Army in the last nine months of the 2012-13 fiscal year, below
the government’s target of 6,424 for the 12 months.  Murphy will say that the Ministry of Defence should
establish a committee to work with major employers and lobby
groups to discuss policies affecting reservists.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  