-- AIG Heads for Seventh Straight Decline After ILFC Delay
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-24T17:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/aig-heads-for-seventh-straight-decline-after-ilfc-delay.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
headed for a seventh straight decline on speculation the insurer
will be unable to raise as much money as planned by selling its
plane-leasing unit.  AIG fell 3.4 percent to $42.21 at 1:35 p.m. in New York,
where the company is based. The cost to protect against losses
on the debt of the International Lease Finance Corp. unit
climbed to the highest level since December.  ILFC updated on June 21 the registration statement for an
initial public offering, after AIG last week extended until July
31 the deadline for a sale of the business to a group of Chinese
investors. As part of the extension, the insurer has the right
to pursue other offers or prepare for an IPO.  “Given that ILFC couldn’t find a buyer in the four years
leading up to the December 2012 agreement, it seems improbable
that competitive bidders are pounding at the door to make an
offer,”  Kathleen Shanley , a bond analyst at Gimme Credit LLC,
wrote in a research note last week.  The insurer began selling assets in 2008 to help repay a
U.S. rescue. AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , who
exited the bailout last year, is seeking to get rid of ILFC to
simplify the insurer and reduce debt.  A collapse of the deal with the Chinese investor group
could pressure ILFC’s credit score, Fitch Ratings said in a note
today. The unit had about $24.1 billion in borrowing as of March
31, according to a regulatory filing. The unit relies on funding
from bond investors to buy planes that it leases to airlines.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to the plane lessor’s
debt climbed 28.6 basis points to a mid-price of 400.9 basis
points as of 1:27 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. That means it would cost the equivalent of
$400,900 annually to protect $10 million of obligations for five
years. Swaps typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates.  Bondholder Interests  “Absent the closing of the current transaction, there is
the potential that AIG may take steps to otherwise facilitate
the sale of all or part of the unit, which may not necessarily
be in the best interests of ILFC’s bondholders,” Fitch said in
the note. “The size, age and diversity of ILFC’s fleet has
limited the number of potential options available to AIG.”  Jon Diat, an AIG spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  