-- Al Gore Reinventions Created USIS’s Outsourced Vettings
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-06-24T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/al-gore-reinventions-created-usis-s-outsourced-vettings.html
In the 1990s, then-Vice President  Al Gore  led a program to reinvent government that included handing
work to private businesses. One legacy: a company that an
investigator said may have botched the background check of fired
national security worker Edward Snowden.  The firm, USIS, was created in 1996 when the government
agency responsible for vetting personnel was spun off to the
private sector. USIS is accused of a “systemic failure to
adequately conduct investigations,” according to Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat.  The revelation that Snowden disclosed two classified U.S.
surveillance programs after being vetted by USIS may have
damaged the company’s reputation and prompted questions about
the wisdom of outsourcing security reviews.  “When we’re talking about botching background checks we
might need to reconsider the policy,” said Scott Amey, general
counsel at the Project on Government Oversight, a Washington-based watchdog group. “As we learn more about these contracted-out services, we are finding that the government lacked proper
oversight, and that contractors cut corners or perform poorly.”  USIS, the government’s top provider of background check
investigations, received $253 million for the work under a
contract with the U.S.  Office of Personnel Management  in fiscal
year 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
represented 67 percent of the personnel office’s spending on
contracts for investigations that year.  USIS is part of  Falls Church , Virginia-based Altegrity Inc.,
owned by  Providence Equity Partners  LLC.  Background Checks  Passing a background check is a requirement before a
federal employee or contractor can be granted a security
clearance. The personnel office is responsible for most of them,
conducting more than 2 million investigations a year.  Patrick McFarland, inspector general of the Office of
Personnel Management, said last week at a congressional hearing
that there may have been flaws in USIS’s investigation into
Snowden’s background.  The probe of the company by McFarland’s office began in
late 2011, sometime after the company conducted a
reinvestigation of Snowden that was tied to the renewal of his
security clearance. Snowden, a former employee of  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , has been charged by the U.S. with
espionage and theft of government property in federal court in
 Virginia .  Raising Doubts  The Snowden case “clearly raises the question about
whether or not the government gets the benefits that were
promised under contracting out,” Don Kettl, dean of the School
of Public Policy at the  University of Maryland , said in an
interview.  USIS’s prominence as a background check contractor is due
to its origin as the Federal Investigations Division of Office
of Personnel Management. The unit was privatized as part of
Gore’s effort to “reinvent” government by reducing the size of
the civil service, according to a  2011 report  by the
 Congressional Research Service .  Contracting out security reviews was designed to help save
the government money and secure new work for about 700
investigators who would no longer be needed because of a
declining security clearance workload due to the end of the  Cold
War , according to Kevin Kosar, an analyst at the research
service.  Company Advantages  The company, originally known as U.S. Investigations
Services Inc., was given a non-competitive, three-year contract
for investigative work with the government personnel office and
granted free access to federal computer databases that weren’t
available to other firms, the report said.  “By any account, this government-sponsored, private
corporation was given advantages and incentives not available to
other private startup corporations,” Kosar wrote.  The Carlyle Group LP, a Washington-based private equity
firm, and New York-based Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe LP
invested in USIS. They agreed in 2007 to sell USIS to Providence,
Rhode Island-based Providence Equity Partners for about $1.5
billion.  Today USIS competes with  CACI International Inc. (CACI)  and
Keypoint Government Solutions Inc., a unit of Veritas Capital, a
New York-based private equity firm.  Those companies may be able to take advantage of USIS’s
association with the Snowden case, said Brian Friel, a contracts
analyst at Bloomberg Industries.  “Competition is already eating away at USIS’s market share,
and its competitors can try to use the bad publicity to their
advantage,” Friel said.  ‘Profit Motive’  Ray Howell, a spokesman for USIS, and Jody Brown, a
spokeswoman for CACI, declined to comment. A Keypoint
representative didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment.  There’s no evidence that using contractors for background
checks instead of government employees has hurt the quality of
investigations, Stan Soloway, chief executive officer of the
Professional Services Council, an Arlington, Virginia-based
contractors’ group, said in a phone interview. He said USIS
isn’t a member.  A review by the federal personnel office’s inspector
general found that out of 18 investigators convicted of
falsifying reports since 2006, 11 were government employees and
seven were contractors.  “The profit motive, frankly, can become the greatest tool
the government has to use to get performance,” Soloway said in
a phone interview. “The last thing a company wants is
reputational damage or business loss.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  