-- Alberta Floods Spread as Water Subsides in Calgary
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h   a n d   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-06-24T20:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/alberta-floods-spread-as-water-subsides-in-oil-hub-of-calgary.html
Water levels in Calgary subsided and
crews are working to restore power as officials confirmed a
fourth fatality in the worst flood in  Alberta ’s history.  Insured losses to the province are forecast to be C$2.25
billion ($2.15 billion) to C$3.75 billion, Tom MacKinnon, a Bank
of Montreal analyst, said today in a note. About 75,000 of
Calgary’s 1.1 million residents were ordered to leave on June 20
after a foot (30 centimeters) of rain fell in two days.  As the city recovers, other communities are still bracing
and  evacuation orders  are in effect in towns north and east of
Calgary, with a flood-warning zone stretching some 250 miles
(402 kilometers) north from the Montana border. About 10,000
people evacuated Medicine Hat, and officials said today they are
concerned that protective berms may “fail suddenly” after the
South Saskatchewan River peaked last night.  “Structural integrity of our berms is at issue and we
require vigilant monitoring,” Ron Robinson, Medicine Hat’s
director of emergency services, said in a press conference.  Twenty-three communities remain in a state of emergency,
according to the Alberta government’s flood information website.
Alberta Premier Alison Redford announced C$1 billion for flood
relief and said plans to balance the provincial budget next year
would be delayed.  “The world changed on Thursday morning,” she said at a
press conference broadcast by the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation. “This is like nothing we’ve ever faced before, and
we’re going to respond to that.”  Fourth Fatality  Calgary police confirmed a fourth fatality Sunday night. An
83-year-old woman was found dead in her home, in an area that
was under mandatory evacuation order, according to deputy police
chief Trevor Daroux. The cause of death is unknown.  The first of five downtown zones will have power again
tomorrow and the rest of Calgary’s buildings should be back by
midweek, according to the city’s news  website .  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  said today its main line west
of Calgary was reopened.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  and
 Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  were among several Calgary-based energy
companies that were forced to shut their headquarters on June 21
because of the floods. Alberta has the third-largest proven oil
reserves in the world, after Saudi Arabia and  Venezuela ,
according to the provincial government.  Enbridge Leak  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the largest transporter of Canadian crude to
the U.S., yesterday shut three oil pipelines in the province
after a leak on a conduit possibly caused by the flooding. The
lines carry crude from Alberta oil-sands projects.  CF Industries Holdings Inc. (CF)  said yesterday it shut a
nitrogen facility in Medicine Hat in advance of flooding on the
South Saskatchewan River.  The town of High River, about 30 miles south of Calgary,
suffered the worst damage, as rain fell in a  river basin  west of
the city before emptying into the Highwood River that flows
through town. Three people died there during the flooding, the
Royal Canadian Mounted Police said.  “There is no spot where the situation is worse than in
High River,” Doug Griffiths, the province’s municipal affairs
minister, told reporters in Calgary yesterday. “There’s not a
single home in High River that will not have to be inspected,
that has not been touched.”  River Flows  Some of the 75,000 who were told to leave Calgary were able
to return home yesterday afternoon as water levels in the city’s
Bow and Elbow rivers receded. Power was restored this morning to
Banff and Lake Louise, Rocky Mountain resort towns west of
Calgary,  TransAlta Corp. (TA)  said today.  Flow rates on the rivers still remain high, Bruce Burrell,
director of the Calgary Emergency Management Agency, told
reporters yesterday. They’re more than three times faster than
during a 2005 flood that was the worst in about a century,
damaging 40,000 homes and evacuating 1,500 people.  Six to eight inches of rain fell into the river basins near
Calgary beginning June 19, and more than 12 inches fell in the
Sheep River basin southwest of the city.  “I never imagined you could have a flood of this magnitude
in this part of the country,” Prime Minister Stephen Harper
said at a June 21 news conference after touring flood-damaged
parts of the province with Premier Redford. Harper is a member
of Parliament representing Calgary’s southwest district.  Harper’s Conservative Party announced yesterday that it
will postpone its national convention in Calgary, originally
scheduled for this week.  Organizers of the Calgary Stampede, an annual rodeo
festival scheduled to start July 5, said the event will go on,
at a press conference broadcast by the CBC.  “Visitors will see the resiliency of Calgarians first
hand,” said Vern Kimball, the Stampede’s chief executive
officer. The event brings in C$345 million for local businesses
each year, according to the its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net ;
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  