-- AMP Falls Most in 10 Years on Expected Profit Drop: Sydney Mover
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-06-24T07:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/amp-falls-most-since-2008-on-expected-profit-drop-sydney-mover.html
AMP Ltd. (AMP) ,  Australia ’s largest life
insurer and pension manager, fell the most in 10 years in Sydney
trading after saying it expects first-half underlying profit to
fall as much as 16 percent.  AMP  shares  closed down 13 percent at A$4.34, the biggest
drop since May 2003 and the lowest close in nine months. The
Sydney-based insurer said it expects  underlying profit  for the
six months to June 30 of A$415 million ($384 million) to A$435
million, down from A$491 million a year earlier.  Insurance policy lapses rose to their highest level in a
decade in the year ending Dec. 31, AMP said in February. It
responded by increasing provisions for non-renewals and
implemented a new claims management policy. It also plans to
increase premiums, AMP said today.  “AMP’s challenges in  life insurance  have continued,” said
James Coghill, Sydney-based analyst at  UBS AG (UBSN) , which in February
reduced its forecast earnings for AMP’s wealth protection unit
by 21 percent for 2013. “There are no easy fixes for structural
headwinds in this division.”  Wealth protection experience losses, which arise from
higher-than-expected claims, were A$32 million in the five
months to May 31, AMP said.  Weakening Economy  A weakening economy and stress leave taken by workers were
among the reasons for higher income protection claims, said BBY
Ltd. analyst Brett Le Mesurier, who cut his target price on AMP
to A$4.00 from A$4.75.  Andrew Adams, an analyst at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in
Sydney, said he would reduce AMP’s full-year earnings estimate
by A$67 million following today’s announcement. He earlier
expected AMP’s annual underlying profit to be A$1 billion.  “AMP continues to implement actions announced at FY 12
financial results aimed at improving its claims experience over
time,” AMP said in a statement today. “This includes new
claims management policies, earlier intervention strategies and
enhanced support to help customers return to work more
quickly.”  The rest of the businesses were performing “in line” with
market expectations, it said. AMP is scheduled to report first
half earnings on August 15.  AMP’s share price drop today, which compares to a 1.5
percent decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index, was the
worst since a 36 percent slump in 2003 when it sold shares at a
discount to reduce debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  