-- ANC Rejects Xhosa King’s ‘Corrupt Hooligans’ Label
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-06-24T13:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/anc-rejects-xhosa-king-s-corrupt-hooligans-label.html
South Africa ’s  African National
Congress  rejected comments made by Buyelekhaya Zwelibanzi
Dalindyebo, king of  Nelson Mandela ’s AbaThembu clan, that the
party is made up of “corrupt hooligans.”  Dalindyebo said President  Jacob Zuma  and the ANC have
distorted the legacy of Mandela, the nation’s first black
president, according to a report in Johannesburg-based  Times
newspaper . He was speaking outside Mandela’s home village of
Qunu in Eastern Cape province at a prayer service for the 94-year-old ex-president, who is critically ill, the Times said.  “We don’t expect the king to go this low without any
evidence to be calling the organization and the president
names,” ANC spokesman Jackson Mthembu said in an interview in
Johannesburg. “I am looking at that king with suspicion now.
I’m doubting his sincerity on almost everything he has done.”  The AbaThembu clan are part of the Xhosa people, South
Africa’s second-largest ethnic group that hails from Eastern
Cape province. Mandela and  Thabo Mbeki , the nation’s first two
post-apartheid presidents, are Xhosa, while Zuma is a member of
the Zulu tribe, the nation’s biggest ethnic group. The ANC has
lost support in Eastern Cape province since Zuma took office in
2009.  The ANC-led government is dogged by corruption scandals
that may erode support for the party ahead of next year’s
general election. Zuma has been lampooned in the media and
criticized by opposition political parties after the Gupta
family, who are personal friends of the president, were allowed
to use a military airbase in April to land a civilian Airbus
plane carrying wedding guests.  ‘Guptas’ Dustbins’  “I’m not sure if there’s anyone who supports the ANC who
is not worried,” Lungisile Ntsebeza, director of the Institute
of African Studies at the University of  Cape Town , said by
phone. “There’s a broader context here, which is that there is
disapproval in the way the ANC and President Zuma are handling
themselves, especially over the past 18 months with the Nkandla
and the Gupta scandal.”  The government has been criticized for alleged overspending
on the refurbishment of Zuma’s private home in Nkandla in
KwaZulu-Natal province.  “It seems like we don’t have human beings in the ANC
listening to members,” Dalindyebo is quoted by the Times as
saying. “We have members rushing for the Guptas’ dustbins.”  The king was applauded when he said the ANC has “been
corrupted by rich people,” according to the Times.  He encouraged people to vote for the opposition  Democratic
Alliance  if the ANC doesn’t change its direction, the newspaper
said.  The ANC has won about two-thirds support in every election
since the first all-race vote in 1994. The Democratic Alliance
garnered 17 percent in the last election in 2009.  “If he wants to go to the Democratic Alliance, by all
means, he has the right to,” Mthembu said. “But he has no
right to tell his subjects. When you do these types of things as
a king, you obviously also alienate yourself from some people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  