-- Apple-Samsung, NCAA, IP Report: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-06-24T12:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/apple-samsung-ncaa-ip-report-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. won a patent lawsuit in
 Japan  on June 21, when a Tokyo judge ruled that  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  smartphones and a tablet computer infringed on
its visual effects for touch panels.  Tokyo District Court Judge Shigeru Osuga hasn’t ruled on
the amount of damage compensation and didn’t give a timeframe
for providing one, according to a statement from the court.  Samsung and Apple, the world’s two biggest smartphone
makers, have each scored victories in patent disputes fought
over four continents since the maker of the iPhone accused
Asia’s biggest electronics maker of “slavishly copying” its
devices. The companies are competing for dominance of a global
mobile-device market estimated by researcher  Yankee Group  at
$346 billion in 2012.  A Samsung spokesman, Nam Ki-yung, said the company would
review the ruling and then decide whether it will appeal.
Takashi Takebayashi, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Apple, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  Samsung infringed Apple’s patent on the way an iPad or
iPhone screen seems to bounce when a user scrolls to the end of
a file, the Cupertino, California-based company said in the
lawsuit.  In August, Tokyo District Judge Tamotsu Shoji ruled against
Apple in a lawsuit that claimed Samsung smartphones and tablet
computers infringe on an invention for synchronizing music and
video data with servers.  For more, click here.  Chivas Regal Resists Offer Francis Ford Coppola Couldn’t Refuse  For the winery started by the director of “The
Godfather,” it was a matter of paying for protection.  Sued for patent infringement in 2012 over the laminated
boxes used for its bottles of Sofia Mini Blanc de Blancs,
 Francis Ford Coppola ’s vintner decided quickly to settle rather
than rack up legal bills.  Other companies refused to pay royalties to Lamina
Packaging Innovations LLC, a patent-licensing entity, and now
face a possible ban on U.S. imports of their products. These
include  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) ’s  Bop It XT  toy, Pernod Ricard SA’s Chivas
Regal Scotch whisky and  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) ’s Remy Martin cognac.  The case at the U.S. International Trade Commission in
 Washington  has become central to a broader debate over whether
to limit complaints by companies whose sole business is to
obtain patents and seek royalties on them.  “The ITC was not designed to protect the theoretical
patent rights of people who were not developing products in
commerce or moving society or civilization forward,” said
lawyer Claude Stern, who represented  Francis Ford Coppola
Presents LLC  in the settlement.  Congress, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, and President
 Barack Obama  have proposed to curb litigation by companies known
as non-practicing entities or by the pejorative “trolls.” One
proposal would restrict cases such companies could pursue at the
agency, which defends U.S. markets from unfair competition.  After Lamina filed claims against 15 companies in February,
the ITC ordered an expedited hearing on whether Lamina met its
requirement that patent owners who file complaints prove the
existence of a domestic industry. Lamina, instead of citing a
manufacturing plant or products, argues its settlements are that
proof.  Lamina, which told the ITC it has two employees and five
consultants, shares a Longview, Texas, office building with a
church, radio station, debt-collection agency and landscaping
company.  It was created in 2010 by  Medici Portfolio Acquisition LLC ,
a licensing company based in a Washington suburb that acquired
the patents of a Wisconsin businessman who, according to
Lamina’s ITC complaint, was “unable to make significant
progress in commercialization” because of rampant copying of
his ideas.  Michael Connelly, Medici’s chief executive officer, had no
immediate comment for this story. Lamina’s lawyer, Gregory Love
of Stevens Love in Longview, didn’t return a message seeking
comment.  In May, ITC Judge Theodore Essex heard testimony from both
sides on whether Lamina meets the standard for a domestic
market. His findings are due July 5. A ruling against Lamina
could end the case. Otherwise, a trial on the patents will be
held in December.  For more, click here.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  NCAA Lawyer Claims Student Athletes Can’t Sue Over Broadcasts  The rights of student athletes aren’t infringed by game
broadcasts, lawyers for the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  told a judge last week. The arguments were made at a
hearing over whether a class comprised of student athletes could
be certified.  The NCAA doesn’t make student athletes give up the rights
to their names, likenesses or images and, just like cheerleaders
or mascots at broadcast sporting events, the student players
have consented to be filmed and can’t sell their images, said
Greg Curtner, an attorney for the association at the June 20
hearing.  “If you go out in public you are fair game to be put on
TV, you are consenting to be broadcast,” Curtner said at a
hearing June 20 in federal court in Oakland, California. “There
is no right of publicity for appearing in a live unscripted
event.”  U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken is presiding over a
four-year-old lawsuit by ex-student basketball and football
players against the NCAA and video-game maker  Electronic Arts
Inc. (EA)  The judge is considering whether to expand the lawsuit into
a class action, or group case, allowing current and former NCAA
basketball and football players to seek damages from the NCAA,
its licensing arm and  Redwood City , California-based Electronic
Arts.  The athletes allege a conspiracy to prevent them from being
paid for the use of their images in broadcasts and games.  “There is no question that absent any pro-competitive
justification, the restraints imposed by these bylaws and
policies that foreclose athletes from participating in the
marketplace” are a violation of antitrust laws, said  Michael Hausfeld , an attorney for the plaintiffs.  “Do professionals not convey their rights?” Hausfeld
said. The NCAA’s position is that student athletes “retain
their rights but they can’t exercise them.”  The case is Keller v. Electronic Arts Inc., 09-cv-01967,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more copyright news, click here.  Enforcement Efforts  IP Enforcer Issues Strategic Plan for Piracy, Trade Secrets  The U.S.  Intellectual Property  Enforcement Coordinator for
the Obama administration, Victoria A. Espinel, last week
published a blueprint for the government’s continuing efforts to
combat infringement and piracy.  The “ Joint Strategic Plan for Intellectual Property
Enforcement ,” introduced June 20, suggests focusing on online
piracy,  trade secrets  and economic espionage.  “We need to be thoughtful and forceful,” Espinel, said at
a press conference announcing the release of the 88-page
document.  The plan lists a number of concerns, including abusive
patent litigation tactics, particularly by so-called patent
trolls. Another concern is the tactic of foreign governments
that “condition market access or the ability to do business on
the transfer of trade secrets or proprietary information.”  The plan also cited “new challenges and opportunities”
present in new technologies, especially mobile computing and 3D
printing. Mobile apps may be counterfeited and other apps “will
be used to distribute infringing digital goods,” according to
the plan.  The administration’s efforts are still in formation. In a
 blog post  Espinel wrote that the government is seeking public
contributions in two areas.  “First, we want to make sure that enforcement of patents
at the border is as efficient and transparent possible so we are
seeking views on how to improve that process,” she wrote.
“Also, we want to know if the voluntary initiatives we have
encouraged to reduce online infringement are working well and
having a positive impact.”  Apple Awaits E-Book Decision With State, Private Suits in Wings  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will find out sometime in the coming weeks
whether it’s legally responsible for an alleged scheme to fix
prices for electronic books, after an unusual three-week civil
antitrust trial in Manhattan.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote, who heard the trial
without a jury, will rule on U.S. claims that Apple, the world’s
biggest technology company, led a conspiracy of five publishers
to raise the retail price of e-books and to force  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) , the No. 1 e-book seller, to change its pricing model.  At stake for Cupertino, California-based Apple is a
possible court finding that, as the government claims, it broke
the law and forced its customers to pay more for e-books than
they would in a free market. States and consumers could use the
judge’s findings to bolster their own cases against the company.  The U.S. sued Apple and the five publishers in April 2012.
The government claims Apple pushed publishers to sign agreements
letting it sell digital copies of their books under what’s known
as the agency model. Under that model, publishers, and not
retailers, set prices for each book, with Apple getting 30
percent.  Orin Snyder, Apple’s lawyer, told Cote in his closing
argument that a ruling for the  Justice Department  would be
“unprecedented and dangerous” for companies. Apple didn’t
conspire with any publishers to fix prices and its entry into
the e-book market lowered prices overall and helped consumers by
bringing innovation and competition, he said.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Google Seeks ‘Sensible Solution’ in EU Antitrust Probe of Search  Google Inc. (GOOG)  said it looks forward to “reaching a sensible
solution” to the European Union’s antitrust probe into the way
the company operates its search engine.  “We know that scrutiny comes along with success, and we
have worked hard to answer their questions thoroughly and
thoughtfully,” Kent Walker, Google’s senior vice president and
general counsel, said in a blog  posting  today.  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, has
said Google is dominant in Web search and search advertising in
Europe and that the  Mountain View , California-based company may
harm competition. EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
has sought a deal with Google to end the antitrust case, while
competitors have urged regulators to force Google to change its
practices.  Almunia said last month that he would almost certainly seek
improvements to Google’s initial settlement offer and also
extended until this week a market-test period for consumers and
rivals to comment.  “We don’t want to hamper the very innovations that people
like best about Google’s services,” Walker said in today’s blog
posting. “That’s why we focused on addressing the commission’s
specific concerns, and we think we did a pretty good job.”  Courts  Gawker’s Unpaid Interns Sue After Fox Searchlight Wage Ruling  Gawker Media LLC was sued by unpaid interns who allege the
online publisher violated minimum-wage law, days after a federal
judge ruled in a similar case that interns at Fox Searchlight
Pictures Inc. should have been paid.  In the  Gawker  case, filed June 20 in Manhattan federal
court, three former interns said they each spent at least 15
hours a week working on blogs affiliated with the New York media
company and were “not paid a single cent.”  “Gawker employs numerous other ‘interns’ in the same way,
paying them nothing or underpaying them and utilizing their
services to publish its content on the Internet, an enterprise
that generates significant amounts of revenue for Gawker,” the
plaintiffs said in the complaint, which was filed on behalf of
all of the company’s unpaid interns.  The lawsuit, which also names company founder Nick Denton
as a defendant, seeks unpaid wages and overtime. Representatives
for Gawker didn’t respond to a request for comment.  U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley in Manhattan this
month ruled in the Fox Searchlight case that unpaid internships
must adhere to U.S. Labor Department criteria to be exempt from
minimum wage requirements.  Under those factors, which are based on a 1947 U.S. Supreme
Court ruling, the position must be structured for the intern’s
benefit and shouldn’t displace regular workers. The employer
also shouldn’t derive immediate advantages from the intern’s
activities.  The case is Mark v. Gawker Media LLC, 13-cv-04347, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
Fox case is Glatt v. Fox Searchlight Pictures Inc., 1:11-cv-06784, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  