-- Apple Win in Mirror Worlds Case Left Intact by High Court
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-06-24T13:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/apple-win-in-mirror-worlds-case-left-intact-by-high-court.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s victory in a patent-infringement case was left intact as the U.S. Supreme Court
rebuffed a Texas company’s effort to revive a $208.5 million
verdict against the computer maker.  The  high court  declined to hear a case in which closely
held Mirror Worlds LLC said an appeals court erred in ruling
that Apple didn’t infringe a software patent for a way to index
and file documents. Mirror Worlds was co-founded by Yale
University computer-science Professor David Gelernter.  Mirror Worlds sued in 2008, claiming Apple’s Mac computers
infringed its patents. The suit focused on Apple’s Spotlight
file search technology used in its Tiger, Leopard and Snow
Leopard operating systems. Mirror Worlds said Spotlight was
based on a demonstration it performed for the company.  A federal jury in Texas awarded $208.5 million for each of
three patents in October 2010. The trial judge overturned the
verdict, saying Mirror Worlds failed to establish its case, and
that ruling was  upheld  by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit in September. The appeal to the  Supreme Court 
involved one of the patents.  Mirror Worlds argued that the appeals court improperly
barred the jury from considering Apple’s touting of Spotlight as
proof that consumers used the feature.  Apple said the judge and appellate court correctly ruled
that Mirror Worlds hadn’t shown that Apple customers performed
the steps covered by the patent.  Network-1 Security Solutions Inc. (NSSI) , a New York-based patent-licensing company, bought the Mirror Worlds patents in May for
$3 million plus warrants to buy shares of Network-1.  The Supreme Court case is Mirror Worlds LLC v Apple Inc.,
12-1158.  The appellate case is Mirror Worlds LLC v. Apple Inc.,
11-1392, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The trial court case is Mirror Worlds LLC v. Apple
Inc., 08cv88, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Texas (Tyler).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 