-- Marsh & McLennan Give Mercer’s Sethi Emerging Market Duty
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-06-24T16:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/marsh-mclennan-give-mercer-s-sethi-emerging-market-duty.html
Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC)  reassigned
three executives at its Mercer unit as the consulting business
seeks growth outside of  North America .  Jeff Schutes has been appointed head of the investments
business for markets including Asia, the Middle East, Turkey,
Africa and Latin America, New York-based Marsh & McLennan said
today in a statement. Akhil Sethi was named head of the
retirement business in the same areas.  Marsh & McLennan, the world’s largest insurance broker by
market value, has been expanding its consulting businesses
outside of North America, hiring Julio Portalatin last year from
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  as Mercer’s chief executive
officer. He was previously the CEO of growth economies at New
York-based AIG’s property-casualty business.  “The newly created roles for Jeff and Akhil reflect our
commitment to invest in and maximize our opportunities in the
growth markets,” Portalatin said in the statement.  Sethi, 47, will be based in New York and be responsible for
advising clients on  retirement plans . He most recently held the
position of global chief operating officer for Mercer’s
retirement business.  Schutes, 56, will be responsible for outsourced advising on
investment decisions for the regions. He most recently served as
global leader of manager research and head of Mercer’s Latin
America investment business. Schutes will divide his time
between Atlanta and Hong Kong, Charles Salmans, a spokesman for
Mercer, said in an interview.  Andrew Kirton was named head of the investments business in
Europe, replacing Tom Geraghty, who became market leader for
Ireland. Kirton, 49, was previously Mercer’s global chief
investment officer.  -- Editors: Dan Kraut, Steven Crabill  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Hickey in  New York  at 
 mhickey18@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  