-- Trayvon Martin Killer Wanted to Shoot, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-06-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/martin-murder-trial-set-to-start-before-florida-jury.html
George Zimmerman, the Neighborhood
Watch volunteer accused of murdering Trayvon Martin, didn’t
shoot the teenager in self-defense, a prosecutor told a jury of
six women at the start of trial in Florida.  Prosecutor  John Guy  told told jurors yesterday how
prosecutors believe Zimmerman, 29, came to spot, confront and
shoot Martin, 17, point blank as he walked to the condominium of
his father’s girlfriend on Feb. 26, 2012, in Sanford, Florida.  “He profiled him as a kid about to commit a crime in his
neighborhood,” Guy said. “George Zimmerman did not shoot
Trayvon Martin because he had to. He shot him for the worst of
all reasons, because he wanted to.”  Guy also promised the jurors, chosen after nine days of
selection, they would hear the recording of a bystander’s
emergency call to police, over which the sounds of the
confrontation and the fatal gunshot could be heard.  “Listen carefully to when the screaming stops,” he said.
“Trayvon Martin was silenced immediately, when the bullet
passed through his heart.”  Zimmerman, who is charged with  second-degree murder , an
unlawful killing without premeditation, faces as long as life in
prison if he’s found guilty. He has maintained he fired in self-defense after Martin punched him in the nose, knocked him down
and banged his head on the pavement.  Black Teen  The shooting of an unarmed black teenager by a man whose
father is white and mother Hispanic prompted rallies and
protests across the U.S. and elicited a comment from President
 Barack Obama  that if he had a son, that child would have looked
like Martin.  Defense lawyer Don West told jurors yesterday that
Zimmerman isn’t guilty of murder and called the killing a “sad
case.”  “He shot Trayvon Martin in self-defense after being
viciously attacked,” West said. “There are no monsters.”  West played the bystander’s emergency call to police that
Guy had referred to. In contrast to Guy’s narrative, West told
the all-female panel that Zimmerman cried for help, then fired
his loaded handgun into Martin’s chest. After Martin fell
forward, Zimmerman climbed on top of him, by which time
witnesses had arrived.  ‘Face Down’  “They saw Trayvon Martin face down and they saw Zimmerman
on top of him,” the attorney said. Sanford police found Martin
face down with a bullet wound to the chest.  Early in his opening statement, West tried to make light of
the difficulty in seating a jury unfamiliar with the news of the
shooting.  “Knock knock” he said. “Who’s there? George Zimmerman.
George Zimmerman who? Good, you’re on the jury.” The panel,
West acknowledged, wasn’t amused.  The trial, presided over by Seminole County Circuit Judge
Debra Nelson, might last as long as three weeks.  The encounter with Zimmerman happened as Martin was walking
through a gated community, carrying a can of iced tea, a bag of
Skittles candy and $40.  Tensions over the incident were stoked by the decision of
then-Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee not to arrest Zimmerman. The
murder charge was announced April 11, 2012, by special
prosecutor Angela Corey. “We did not come to this decision
lightly,” she told reporters at the time.  Deadly Force  The state’s Stand Your Ground law, which allows individuals
to use deadly force in a public place if they “reasonably”
believe they face “great bodily harm,” prevented police from
making an arrest in the case, officials said at the time. Before
the law was adopted in 2005, people were expected to retreat
from a threatening situation if possible.  Zimmerman opted not to request a hearing on whether the law
applies in his case, though his lawyers can still argue during
the trial that it gave him immunity for his decision to shoot
Martin.  There were no eyewitnesses to the killing.  Sanford, site of the shooting and the trial, is a city of
about 54,000 people about 20 miles (32 kilometers) north of
 Orlando .  Prosecutors have submitted a list of 85 possible witnesses,
including Zimmerman’s father and Martin’s parents. One witness
is a woman who said she was on the phone with Martin at the time
of his confrontation with Zimmerman. The woman said Martin told
her he was being followed by a stranger and was scared.  Dispatcher’s Testimony  Sean Noffke, a police emergency call operator, testified
yesterday that he spoke with Zimmerman when the defendant first
sighted Martin walking through the condominium complex called
The Retreat at Twin Lakes.  Zimmerman said he was driving to a store around 7 p.m. when
he saw Martin walking in the rain, according to recording of a
police interview.  Zimmerman called the police to report a suspicious person,
describing Martin as black, acting strangely and perhaps on
drugs.  “Are you following him?” Noffke asked Zimmerman,
according to the recording.  “Yeah,” Zimmerman responded.  “OK, we don’t need you to do that,” the dispatcher said.  “OK,” Zimmerman responded.  During the call, Zimmerman made references to people he
said had committed crimes in his neighborhood and hadn’t been
caught.  Emergency Policy  Asked yesterday why he didn’t order Zimmerman to stay in
his truck until police arrived, Noffke said it is contrary to
emergency operator policy to do so, because “they would be
liable if anything happened.”  Noffke, under cross-examination by Mark O’Mara, another
defense attorney, said he didn’t detect anger in Zimmerman’s
tone of voice.  O’Mara also questioned whether Noffke’s asking Zimmerman to
tell him what Martin was doing encouraged him to pursue the
teenager.  “It’s best to avoid any kind of confrontation, to just get
away from a situation,” Noffke replied.  In a police interview after the shooting, Zimmerman said he
had left his vehicle to look for a street name to give the
dispatcher. As he walked back to his SUV, he said, Martin
approached from behind and asked whether he had a problem.
Zimmerman said he told him he didn’t.  Martin said, “Well, you do now,” and punched Zimmerman in
the nose, according to a recording of Zimmerman’s Feb. 26, 2012,
interview with police.  Police Report  Zimmerman told officers he fell and that Martin got on top
of him and began slamming his head into the sidewalk. A police
report said Zimmerman was bleeding from the nose and back of the
head. Zimmerman said he began yelling for help “but no one
would help me,” according to the incident report.  Zimmerman told police that Martin covered his nose and
mouth with his hands. Martin then told him “You’re going to die
tonight,” and reached for the Kel-Tec PF-9 9mm pistol that
Zimmerman had holstered around his waist, according to
Zimmerman.  Zimmerman said he got to the gun first and fired the
hollow-point bullet into Martin’s chest.  Martin, who lived in Miami Gardens,  Florida , was staying at
the home of his father’s girlfriend in the neighborhood,
according to police.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Boyd in the Sanford, Florida, courthouse  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  