-- Las Vegas Sands Leads Casino Owners Down on China Squeeze
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-06-25T04:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/las-vegas-sands-leads-casino-owners-down-on-china-squeeze.html
Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  fell to a four-month
low, leading a decline in Macau casino operators on concerns
that slower economic growth in China may hurt demand from high-stake gamblers in the world’s largest gaming hub.  Wynn Macau fell 5.5 percent to HK$19.62, the lowest level
since Feb. 7, at the noon break in Hong Kong trading today.
 Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  lost 4.5 percent while  Sands
China Ltd. (1928)  also dropped 4.5 percent.  Casino stocks are declining after a cash squeeze has driven
up the money-market rate and banks including Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. have pared growth projections for China’s economy to 7.4
percent, below the government’s 7.5 percent goal. Deutsche Bank
AG today cut its rating on Galaxy, Sands China,  Wynn Macau  and
 Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  to hold from buy.  “There are rising demand risks from VIPs if China recovery
slows,” Karen Tang, a Deutsche Bank analyst, noted, referring
to the high rollers who contribute about two thirds of Macau’s
casino revenue.  Junket operators, or the middle men who provide credit to
VIP bettors, said they hadn’t felt any impact from the spike in
Chinese interbank rates, according to Tang. Mainland Chinese
tourists have helped turn Macau into the world’s largest
gambling hub, with $38 billion in casino revenue last year, more
than six times the Las Vegas Strip.  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  lost 3.8 percent to HK$17.16 at the noon
break. Melco Crown lost 1.7 percent, while the city’s benchmark
 Hang Seng  index slid 1.4 percent.  Las Vegas-based parents of Macau operators dropped
overnight in New York trading amid concerns about China’s growth
prospects.  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , with properties in Macau and
Singapore, declined 5.4 percent to $49.47 at the close in New
York, the lowest since Feb. 21. Other companies with casinos in
Macau also fell, with  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  down 4.3 percent.  “The slowing down of the Chinese economy will pose a
bigger risk to casino operators,” said Victor Yip, a Hong Kong-based analyst at UoB Kay Hian Ltd. ’’So far we haven’t seen any
worsening in VIP liquidity. The cashflow remains pretty strong
within the sector.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  