-- Chinese Banks’ Bond Risk Rises Most in Asia Amid Moody’s Warning
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-06-24T04:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , Export-Import
Bank of China and China Development Bank Corp. led gains in
Asian bond risk last week as Moody’s Investors Service warns
credit curbs could threaten small and mid-sized lenders.  Prices of swaps tied to  Bank of China , the nation’s fourth-largest lender, rose 70.4 basis points last week to 192.4, the
biggest increase among members of the Markit iTraxx Asia index
of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan, according to
data provider CMA. The cost of insuring Asian corporate and
sovereign bonds from default surged 27.6 basis points last week,
the most since November 2011, CMA prices show.  CDB, the nation’s biggest policy lender, scrapped a bond
sale as the People’s Bank of  China  said today that lenders must
control liquidity risks from credit expansion. The country’s
worst cash crunch on record last week sent the one-year yield on
AAA corporate debt to 5.17 percent, the highest since November
2011. The PBOC’s methods of limiting liquidity threaten small
and medium-sized banks that are more dependent on the interbank
market, Moody’s wrote in a report today.  “Non-performing loans are likely to rise more rapidly in
the coming months as weaker borrowers find refinancing
conditions more challenging,” Bin Hu, senior analyst at
Moody’s, wrote in the report. “Another risk is that the PBOC’s
actions will make banks more nervous about each other’s
creditworthiness.”  The gauge of Asian bond risk advanced 7 basis points to 166
basis points as of 8:39 a.m. in Hong Kong today,  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  prices show.  Yield Rise  The average premium that Chinese issuers  pay  to sell U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds rose for a third consecutive week in
the period to June 21, the longest streak since that ending
March 29, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. Yields
on Bank of China’s 5.55 percent subordinated bonds due February
2020 soared 43 basis points to 4.74 percent, the biggest weekly
gain since August 2011, Bloomberg prices show.  Interbank lending rates spiked last week as the monetary
authority refrained from using open-market operations to address
a cash crunch in the world’s second-largest economy. The central
bank later used reverse-repurchase agreements to inject funds
into selected banks, financial news website Hexun reported June
21, citing an unidentified person close to the PBOC. Banking
system liquidity is at reasonable levels, the central bank said
in an announcement on its website today.  Fitch Cautions  Persistent tight liquidity could constrain the ability of
some banks to repay maturing wealth-management products, Fitch
Ratings cautioned last week. Still, curbing credit growth to
prevent a build-up of excessive leverage is good for China’s
banking system overall, Moody’s wrote in its report.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index climbed 4 basis points to
143 basis points as of 10:24 a.m. in Sydney, according to
National Australia Bank Ltd. The measure is on course for its
highest close since November 19, after advancing 14.8 basis
points last week, the most since the period ended March 22,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index rose 1 basis point to 117 as
of 9:52 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The gauge is
on track for its highest close since March 5, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  