-- Asian Stocks Headed for Biggest Monthly Loss in a Year
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-24T11:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/asian-stocks-rise-as-japan-exporters-climbs-on-weaker-yen.html
Asian  stocks  declined, with the
benchmark regional index heading toward the worst monthly loss
in a year, as Chinese stocks entered a bear market amid a cash
crunch at banks in the world’s second-largest economy.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd., the world’s
largest lender, lost 3 percent in Hong Kong, having risen just
one day in June. BHP Billiton Ltd., the No. 1 mining company,
declined 3.4 percent, as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its growth
forecast for China. AMP Ltd. tumbled 13 percent, its biggest
slide in 10 years, after  Australia ’s largest life insurer said
it expects profit to fall as much as 16 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1.8 percent to 125.43 as
of 8 p.m. in Hong Kong, bringing this month’s decline to 7
percent. More than three shares fell for every one that
advanced. The gauge declined 2.3 percent last week amid concern
that Federal Reserve stimulus measures for the U.S. economy are
nearing an end and that interbank lending in China is worsening.  “Volatility is going to be the order of the week for the
markets,” Vasu Menon, head of content and research at OCBC Bank
Ltd. in  Singapore , told Bloomberg TV. “China has had a credit
binge for way too long. The government is trying to rebalance
the economy, trying to downsize the shadow banking system. All
that means credit is going to remain fairly tight.”  Volatility indexes for Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average and
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index both advanced. The Nikkei Stock
Average Volatility Index gained 3.5 percent and the HSI
Volatility Index soared 18 percent.  Regional Gauges  Japan’s Topix index slid 0.9 percent. The Bank of Japan
probably promised too much when it set a goal of lifting the
inflation rate to 2 percent within two years, according to
Takahiro Mitani, president of the country’s public pension fund,
the world’s biggest.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 1.5 percent and
South Korea’s  Kospi index  slid 1.3 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index was little changed.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 2.2 percent and the
Shanghai Composite Index dropped 5.3 percent, the most since
August 2009. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland
shares listed in Hong Kong retreated 3.2 percent, the lowest
since October 2011.  China’s CSI 300 Index, representing the 300 biggest
companies in the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchange, lost 6.3
percent, falling 22 percent from this year’s high and entering a
bear market.  China Growth  Goldman Sachs lowered its estimate for 2013 Chinese gross
domestic product growth to 7.4 percent from 7.8 percent, citing
weaker economic indicators and tightening of financial
conditions, according to a report today from economist Li Cui.
China International Capital Corp. also cut its GDP growth
forecast, to 7.4 percent from 7.7 percent, according to an e-mail from its public relations department.  The Hang Seng Finance Index, a gauge of  Chinese banks 
listed in the Hong Kong, a fifth day of losses, retreating 2.3
percent. ICBC sank 3 percent to HK$4.48. Bank of China Ltd. fell
2.6 percent to HK$2.99 and China Construction Bank Corp. dropped
2.1 percent to HK$5.08.  China’s central bank said it may adjust monetary policy as
needed, suggesting officials are more open to loosening policies
as a cash squeeze risks exacerbating an economic slowdown. The
People’s Bank of China said the nation should “appropriately
fine-tune” its policies, according to a statement yesterday
that summarized the monetary policy committee’s second-quarter
meeting in Beijing.  Global Slump  The MSCI All-Country World Index, a gauge of developed and
emerging market shares, sank the most in a year last week as
almost $2 trillion was erased from the value of global equities
after the Fed indicated it could start paring asset purchases
this year should the U.S. economy continue to improve.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, retreated 12 percent through last week from the
closing level on May 20, which was the highest since June 2008.
That left the measure trading at 12.4 times average  estimated
earnings , compared with multiples of 14.4 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 12.4 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index will jump about 12 percent
in coming months as its June slump exhausts sellers, Tom DeMark,
the creator of indicators to show turning points in securities,
wrote in an e-mail from Scottsdale,  Arizona , on June 21.  The benchmark index for Chinese equities will climb to
2,323 after producing a buy signal June 21 on the Combo chart,
designed to identify market tops and bottoms, said DeMark, who
has spent more than 40 years developing market-timing
indicators. The Shanghai index fell 9.9 percent this month
through June 21, poised for the worst month since August 2009,
while the Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. lost 6.5 percent.  Futures Drop  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.9 percent
today. U.S. stocks fell last week, sending benchmark indexes to
their worst retreat since April, after Fed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said he may phase out monetary stimulus.  Raw-materials producers declined as copper futures
retreated. BHP Billiton lost 3.4 percent to A$31.35 and Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company, declined
2.1 percent to A$51.54 in Sydney. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s
biggest producer of the metal, slipped 4.9 percent to HK$13.64
in Hong Kong.  AMP tumbled 13 percent to A$4.34, its largest slide since
May 2003, after saying it expects first-half underlying profit
will fall as much as 16 percent. Credit Suisse Group AG said it
will reduce its earnings estimates for AMP by A$67 million
following the announcement.  In  Japan , Acom Co. jumped 3.2 percent to 3,035 yen after
the consumer lender announced a stock split. SoftBank Corp.
gained 0.7 percent to 5,600 yen after rival bidder Dish Network
Corp. abandoned its effort to acquire Sprint Nextel Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  