-- Asia Futures Heed U.S. Stock Jump on Economy as Oil Falls
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-06-25T22:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/asian-stock-futures-fall-amid-china-cash-crunch-concern.html
Asian equity  futures (NKA)  from Japan to
Australia rose, tracking a rebound in U.S. stocks after better-than-estimated data bolstered the outlook for the world’s
largest economy and concern over China’s cash crunch eased.
Crude fell the first day this week.  Futures due in September on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock
Average closed up 1.2 percent in Chicago and added 1.6 percent
by 3 a.m. in Osaka, while  contracts  on  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng
Index gained 1 percent. S&P/ASX 200 Index futures climbed 0.6
percent in Sydney.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  futures were
little changed by 7:36 a.m. in Tokyo, after the gauge rose 1
percent in  New York , cutting June 24’s 1.2 percent slump. The
dollar gained against other major currencies including the yen.
Copper futures retreated.  Almost a week after the  Federal Reserve  said an improving
economy could spur reductions in stimulus, data in the U.S.
showed durable goods bookings climbed in May and  house prices ,
new-home sales and consumer confidence reports beat economists’
estimates. Chinese stock volatility is the highest since 2011,
while the People’s Bank of China said in a statement late
yesterday it will use tools to ensure money-market stability and
that the shortage of cash on the market will abate.  “A swathe of upbeat U.S. data breathed fresh life into the
trend for a stronger dollar,”  Mike Jones , currency strategist
at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, wrote in an e-mail to
clients. “An easing in Chinese funding concerns has been
largely responsible for the improvement in sentiment. Soothing
words from the PBOC” helped markets recover, he said.  ‘Digesting’ Fed  The  S&P 500  rebounded from the lowest close in nine weeks.
The index has climbed 11 percent this year and is up 1.2 percent
for the quarter and down 2.6 percent in June, poised for its
worst month in more than a year.  Global stocks retreated June 24 as Chinese equities entered
a  bear market  amid concern a cash crunch will hurt growth in
Asia’s largest economy. China’s  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  closed down 0.3
percent yesterday after losing as much as 6.8 percent. Futures
on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland Chinese
stocks traded in Hong Kong added 1.2 percent today, rising for
the first time in six days.  “People are still digesting the news from the Fed, making
mental adjustments for different levels of  interest rates  and
what those might imply for securities’ prices over the next
several quarters,”  John Carey , a  fund manager  at Boston-based
Pioneer Investment Management Inc., said by phone yesterday. His
firm oversees about $208 billion. “I’m encouraged the market
has stabilized a little here,” he said. “It’s not a robust
recovery of share prices but it’s at least a little bit of
improvement after last week.”  Housing Data  The U.S. durable-goods data showed that excluding
transportation equipment, where demand is volatile month to
month, orders advanced 0.7 percent, topping projections. A
separate report showed the S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values
for 20 cities climbed 12.1 percent for the year ended April, the
most since March 2006, after a 10.9 percent gain in March.  Sales of new U.S. homes in May rose to the highest level in
almost five years, gaining 2.1 percent to an annualized pace of
476,000 homes to exceed all estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts, Commerce Department figures showed. The Conference
Board’s index of U.S.  consumer confidence  increased to 81.4 in
June from 74.3 a month earlier.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rebounded from a one-year
low, rising 0.3 percent, while MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index ended
yesterday 0.6 percent lower. The regional benchmark is trading
at a valuation of 11.5 times projected earnings, the cheapest
level since November, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  PBOC Comments  The Chinese central bank’s statement came hours after Ling Tao, deputy director of the Shanghai branch of the PBOC, said
officials will closely monitor the money-market rate and keep it
at reasonable levels.  Ling is the first PBOC official to discuss publicly the
increase in rates since a cash squeeze helped send the overnight
repurchase rate to a record last week. Premier  Li Keqiang  is
seeking to wring speculative lending out of the nation’s banking
system after credit expansion outpaced economic growth.  Mark Mobius , who oversees $53 billion in emerging-market
investments, said he has confidence in China’s central bank and
is keeping his overweight position in the nation’s equities
following a five-day tumble.  “We should be confident about what the government is doing
and they are cleaning up the system,” Mobius, the executive
chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, said in a phone
interview yesterday from  Monaco . “We are looking to add to
Chinese exposure if the price is right. If the price comes down
substantially, we would.”  Weakening Yen  Yields on 10-year  U.S. Treasuries  climbed from a record-low
1.379 percent set July 25, 2012 to 2.6 percent in New York. The
five-year average is 2.75 percent. Volatility in Treasuries as
measured by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch MOVE index climbed
to 110.98 June 24, the most since November 2011. The daily
average this year is 61.54.  Volatility in currencies has surged since the Fed signaled
June 19 that it may start reducing stimulus this year and stop
the quantitative easing program in 2014. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 Group of Seven Volatility Index , based on currency option
premiums, was at 11.52 percent yesterday after rising to 11.96
percent June 24, the highest level since January 2012.  The yen weakened 0.4 percent to 98.16 per dollar and lost
0.3 percent to 128.34 against the euro. The  Dollar Index , which
measures the U.S. currency against six major peers, climbed for
a fifth day, rallying 0.2 percent yesterday. The Australian
dollar was little changed at 92.57 U.S. cents, while New
Zealand’s currency was steady at 77.37 cents.  Gold Forecasts  Crude declined 0.2 percent to $95.17 a barrel, after rising
0.2 percent yesterday. Copper futures fell 0.3 percent, and
platinum and palladium prices also declined. Gold was little
changed at $1,275.90 an ounce after retreating 0.2 percent
yesterday. Morgan Stanley joined banks including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and UBS AG in lowering its forecasts for gold on
prospects the Fed will scale back monetary stimulus and as the
U.S. economic recovery dims the precious metal’s appeal as a
safe haven.  Orange juice futures for September delivery sank 4.4
percent in U.S. hours, the biggest decline for a most-active
contract since March 1 and headed for the biggest monthly slump
in more than a year on signs of slowing demand in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien in New York at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  