-- Aton Said to Cut Half of Research as Strategist Moves to Sweden
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-06-24T12:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/aton-said-to-cut-half-of-research-as-strategist-moves-to-sweden.html
Aton Capital, the Moscow-based
brokerage founded by former Kremlin adviser Yevgeny Yuryev, has
cut half of its research team while chief strategist Peter Westin has moved to  Sweden , according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The cuts were made after negotiations about  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,
France’s largest bank, taking a stake in Aton floundered earlier
this year, according to the people, who asked not to be named
because the information hasn’t been made public. The team had
about 20 people on it previously, they said.  Brokerages in Russia, including  Renaissance Capital ,
controlled by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , and IFC Metropol,
have been cutting staff as margins shrink.  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the
biggest Dutch bank, said in October that it will close its
Russian equities unit, while Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  said in
June that it would shutter its securities operation in Moscow.  “All the recent changes in the company are driven
exclusively by the target to make our service more efficient and
adjust it to the changing external environment and clients
requests,” Stanislav Molchanov, an Aton spokesman, wrote in an
e-mailed response to questions today, without commenting
directly on the job cuts.  Aton stopped sending clients its daily research note in
March, allowing the analysts to concentrate “more on clients’
immediate requests, trading idea generation and fundamental
analysis,” he said.  Westin, who rejoined Aton from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  four
years ago, has moved to Stockholm and will work for Aton on a
consulting basis, said the people. Westin remains the
brokerage’s chief strategist, Molchanov said.  Yuryev and his partners sold Aton to UniCredit, Italy’s
biggest bank, in 2006 for $424 million, or four times book
value, according to UniCredit Bank Austria AG’s 2007 annual
report. UniCredit dropped the Aton name and this year closed its
equities business amid increasing competition from state-owned
banks. Yuryev retained Aton’s asset-management business and in
2009 started a new broker under the same name, which competes
with UniCredit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  