-- Aussie Dollar ‘Still Putting a Handbrake’ on Industry, Swan Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-06-24T23:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/aussie-dollar-still-putting-a-handbrake-on-industry-swan-says.html
The Australian currency “is still
putting a handbrake” on some industries even as it has fallen
below parity with the  U.S. dollar , Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “It’s good to see the Australian dollar depreciating, as
it should as our terms of trade weaken and as the U.S. begins
the very long journey back to normal monetary policy settings,”
Swan said today in Canberra, referring to Australian export
prices relative to import prices and  Federal Reserve  plans to
slow bond purchases. “This should make the transition towards
non-mining sources of growth a bit easier.”  The currency slumped 11 percent this quarter, the worst
performer among group of 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as
signs mount that the  U.S. economy  is strengthening and growth is
slowing in Australia’s biggest trading partner, China. Industry
has been squeezed by a currency that held above $1 from mid-June
last year to May 10, the longest stretch above parity with the
U.S. dollar since the Aussie was freely floated in 1983.  “There’s no doubt the high Australian dollar has checked
the growth of manufacturing in Australia as well as important
service export industries such as tourism,” Swan told the
Committee for Economic Development of Australia. “It’s
obviously also hurt our farmers and hit profitability in
mining.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowered  borrowing costs  by 2
percentage points in the past 20 months to a record-low 2.75
percent as it seeks to rebalance growth from mining regions in
the north and west that have thrived toward manufacturers in the
south and east that struggled under the currency’s weight.  Contained Inflation  “We can also acknowledge that the higher dollar has
increased the real incomes of Australians and helped keep
inflation contained, helping the RBA to take  interest rates  down
to record low levels,” Swan said. “We’ve been able to
successfully manage the investment boom without feeling a lot of
the pressures we experienced in earlier commodity price booms
such as the early 70s and 80s.”  The ruling  Labor party  hasn’t led in polls for more than 18
months. A Newspoll in the Australian newspaper yesterday showed
the opposition led Labor 57 percent to 43 percent on a two-party
basis, designed to gauge which party is most likely to form a
government under Australia’s preferential voting system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  