-- Australian Factories Meet Carbon Deadline Ahead of Cap-and-Trade
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-06-24T08:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/australian-factories-meet-carbon-deadline-ahead-of-cap-and-trade.html
Australian factories and power
stations handed in carbon permits and offsets covering 212
million metric tons of greenhouse gases emitted in the past year
as the nation prepares for a cap-and-trade program in 2015.  Companies were obliged to surrender permits covering 75
percent of their emissions in the year to June 30 by an interim
deadline on June 17,  data  from the nation’s Clean Energy
Regulator show. The balance of allowances must be surrendered by
Feb. 3.  The country introduced a charge for carbon emissions last
year as Prime Minister Julia Gillard proceeded with plans for a
trading system that has drawn criticism from opposition
politicians. Liberal party leader Tony Abbott pledged a “blood
oath” to dismantle what he calls a toxic tax on carbon and
electricity if he wins a Sept. 14 general election.  “Last week’s provisional surrender would have been the
first time that many Australian companies have had to pay for
their emissions,” Hugh Bromley, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in Sydney, said by e-mail June 21. “This is an
important step forward as  Australia ’s per capita emissions are
the highest in the OECD.”  Australia’s carbon regime will shift from a flat charge of
A$23 ($21.12) to A$25.40 a ton from 2012 through 2015, to a
floating-price market system from 2015, according to legislation
passed two years ago.  Permit Surrender  All liable entities fulfilled their reporting obligations,
according to a June 21 e-mailed statement from the Clean Energy
Regulator. Companies surrendered permits covering 99.75 percent
of their discharges, the regulator said.  A total of 256 companies handed over allowances by the June
deadline, the data show. About 120 more firms are expected to
submit permits by the Feb. 3 deadline, Bromley said.  Companies must top up their quota with permits purchased
directly from the government, or  carbon offsets  generated by
projects in Australia that reduce emissions by cutting pollution
from livestock, landfills and deforestation. Companies
surrendered 1.7 million Australian Carbon Credit Units in the
June compliance, data from the regulator show.  From 2015, companies will be allowed to use European Union
allowances, or EUAs, and United Nations Certified Emission
Reductions for a portion of their compliance, according to the
system’s rules.  “Some liable entities will be looking beyond the fixed-price period to take advantage of low carbon prices in the
international CER and EUA markets,” Bromley said. “However,
political uncertainty makes this too risky a proposition for
many companies.”  The Clean Energy Regulator will publish data on those
companies that failed to surrender enough permits to cover 75
percent of their annual emissions on June 28, according to its
website.  “We believe almost all entities who were required to
provide a provisional surrender did so,” Bromley said.  -- Editors: Andrew Reierson, John Buckley  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  