-- Australia Can Bounce Back to Win Cricket’s Ashes, Lehmann Says
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-06-24T18:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/australia-fires-arthur-as-national-cricket-coach-herald-reports.html
Darren Lehmann replaced the fired
Mickey Arthur as  Australia  cricket coach and said months of
instability won’t undercut his team’s chances in the Ashes
series against England, which starts in 15 days.  Cricket Australia said Arthur was replaced because the
team’s “struggles both on and off the field during the tour of
 India  and the recent ICC Champions Trophy led to the CA board
taking such drastic action.”  Australia lost its most recent Test series 4-0 in India,
has been plagued by disciplinary issues, and failed to win a
game at the Champions Trophy in England and  Wales  that ended two
days ago. Even so, Lehmann says he’s optimistic.  “Yes, definitely,” he told a news conference in Bristol,
 England , yesterday when asked if Australia could win the Ashes.
“It’s a challenge for all the playing group and everyone
involved in Cricket Australia. The team is going to play a
certain way, an aggressive brand of cricket that entertains
people and fans but also gets the job done.”  Australia’s squad gathered yesterday to prepare for the
five-Test series against England starting July 10 at  Trent
Bridge , Nottingham. After winning eight straight Ashes contests
between 1989 and 2003, Australia lost three of the past four and
faces the prospect of losing three series in a row against its
archrival for the first time since 1956.  “There won’t be any ongoing problems. We’ll get everything
right, on and off the field,” Lehmann said. “It’s important to
talk about the game whether it’s over a beer or a  Diet Coke , I
don’t mind being perfectly honest.”  Asked about his top three priorities, he said, “Probably
’win, win, win,’ for a start.”  ‘Good Man’  Cricket Australia Chief Executive Officer James Sutherland
explained the decision to change coaches by saying decisive
action was needed.  “Mickey Arthur is a good man, he’s tried his utmost to do
a good job and unfortunately, at the end of day he just hasn’t
quite done that,” Sutherland told reporters. “We decided
things weren’t improving. We could let things be as they are,
continue with the status quo, or we could make a change. There
will be people that think the timing is wrong but we’re
confident this is a decision in the interests of the Australia
cricket team.”  Captain  Michael Clarke  resigned his role as a team selector
as part of the coaching restructure. He said the replacement of
the coach took him by surprise.  “Like everybody I was shocked at the time, and then it was
about trying to keep my focus on having success on this Ashes
tour,” Clarke said. “That’s the most important thing, that we
make sure we are performing a lot better than we have so far on
this tour and a lot better than on our most recent tour to
India.”  Warner Suspension  South African Arthur, 45, was hired as Australia’s first
non-native coach in November 2011 and led the team to 10 wins,
six losses and three draws in 19 Tests. His tenure was marked by
discipline breaches in the squad, the latest being batsman  David Warner ’s suspension earlier this month for punching England’s
Joe Root in a bar.  In March, vice-captain  Shane Watson  was among four players
dropped for the third Test in India for failing to submit
presentations on how they and the team could improve. Watson
returned to skipper the team in the fourth match in place of the
injured Clarke and the team fell to the 4-0 sweep.  Last month, Warner was fined A$5,750 ($5,300) for posting
abusive comments to journalists on his Twitter account. The
opening batsman was later suspended until the Ashes opener and
fined A$11,500 for punching Root following Australia’s June 8
loss to England in the Champions Trophy.  ‘Die by the Sword’  Arthur said he was “very disappointed” at being replaced.  “Nobody likes losing their job, but I don’t feel let down
by the players at all,” he said. “At the end of the day, you
live and die by the sword and I gave this job 100 percent of my
time over the last couple of years. The disappointing thing is I
thought we were nearly there to cracking it, I really do. I can
look back and say I’ve chucked everything at it.”  Lehmann will be contracted until June 2015, after the next
 World Cup , in line with Arthur’s planned tenure.  The new coach played 27 Tests for Australia as a batsman
between 1998 and 2004, guided the Deccan Chargers to the Indian
Premier League title in 2009 and has been coaching the
Queensland state team in Australia’s domestic competitions. He’d
just completed a coaching assignment with Australia’s second-string squad.  “Darren Lehmann is, to us, the obvious choice to come in
and replace Mickey,” Sutherland said. “As a cricketer and a
coach he has an outstanding record, he’s very highly regarded in
cricket and within the Australian team.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  