-- Australia Exchange Competition Saved A$32 Million, Study Says
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-06-24T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/australia-exchange-competition-saved-a-32-million-study-says.html
The introduction of competition to
the  Australian equities  market saved traders at least A$32
million ($29 million) in the first year, according to a study by
the Australian Capital Markets Cooperative Research Centre.  The savings, from reduced trading fees and tighter bid-ask
spreads, could be as high as A$215 million, according to
researchers led by Michael Aitken, chief executive officer of
the CMCRC and professor of finance at the University of New
South Wales.  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , operator of the country’s primary bourse,
cut fees in 2010 in preparation for the opening of Chi-X
Australia Pty, its first competitor, in October 2011.  The costs of connecting to the new trading platform and
updated regulatory fees were offset by the savings, the study
found. South Korea is planning the introduction of equity
competition, which will make it the third market in Asia Pacific
to allow alternative trading venues to compete with traditional
exchanges, following Australia and Japan.  “The benefits we find in this study are consistent with
what we’d expect to see from the initial break-up of an
effective monopoly,” Michael Aitken, chief executive officer of
the CMCRC and professor of finance at the University of New
South Wales said in a statement today. “Competition has been an
unequivocally positive thing for  Australia .”  An average of A$418 million in shares exchanged hands on
the Chi-X platform each day in the week ended Jun. 21, according
to Chi-X. Shares traded on Chi-X accounted for 9.5 percent of
all shares traded in Australia in the first quarter of 2013
while trades negotiated off-exchange and reported to Chi-X
accounted for 7.3 percent of the market, according to the
Australian Securities and Investments Commission.  Venue Choice  ASX reduced its trading fees in July 2010 after Chi-X
announced it would open a competing platform. Chi-X Australia is
a subsidiary of New York-based Chi-X Global Inc., which is owned
by a consortium of financial institutions including  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  The firm also operates alternative trading
platforms in  Japan  and  Canada .  Having a choice of venues contributed to savings by
enabling traders to employ strategies that take advantage of
multiple markets, the study found.  Market integrity was not affected by the introduction of
fragmentation because ASIC has the ability to consolidate the
data feeds of both platforms to get a full picture of the market
place, the study found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  