-- Bank of Israel Holds Benchmark in Final Fischer-Led Decision
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2013-06-24T15:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/bank-of-israel-holds-interest-rate-in-final-fischer-led-decision.html
The Bank of  Israel  left the
benchmark lending rate unchanged after reducing it twice last
month in the final monetary policy decision steered by Governor
Stanley Fischer.  The bank left borrowing costs unchanged at 1.25 percent,
citing the Federal Reserve’s announcement of the expected
removal of policy accommodation in the future. Thirteen of 20
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast the decision, while
seven predicted a quarter-point cut.  “The strengthening of the dollar globally as a result of
reported plans to halt quantitative easing supports the dollar-shekel exchange rate in recent days, making it less pressing for
the central bank to immediately continue trimming the interest
rate differential vis-a-vis the dollar,” said Yaniv Pagot,
chief strategist at Ayalon Group Ltd., one of the analysts who
predicted the decision.  Fischer, who is stepping down at the end of the month after
eight years at the central bank’s helm, has gradually lowered
the benchmark rate from 3.25 percent in 2011 to help spur growth
in the export-driven economy. He will be replaced by Jacob Frenkel, chairman of JPMorgan Chase International, who served as
governor of the central bank from 1991 to 2000, Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu announced yesterday.  Shekel Appreciation  Together with the two rate cuts last month, the Bank of
Israel announced a plan to purchase $2.1 billion by the end of
the year in an effort to help moderate the shekel appreciation,
which has hampered exports. The Israeli currency has gained
about 3 percent in the past six months, making it the best
performer among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation (ISCPIYYN)  remained below the floor of the government’s 1
percent to 3 percent target for a second month in May. It is
expected to accelerate to close to the midpoint of the target in
the next 12 months, according to the average of forecasts in a
central bank survey released June 18.  Economic  growth , excluding new gas output, is forecast to
slow to 2.7 percent in 2014, from 2.9 percent last year,
excluding first-time natural gas production, the Organisation
for Economic Cooperation and Development said May 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  