-- Berlusconi Meets Letta as Sex Ruling Rattles Government
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-06-25T12:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/berlusconi-s-sex-conviction-raises-tension-in-letta-s-government.html
Silvio Berlusconi , the three-time
premier who was convicted yesterday of paying a minor for sex,
is set to meet Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta, underscoring
his influence over the two-month-old coalition.  Today’s encounter in  Rome , the last of Letta’s three
meetings with party leaders this week, will test his ability to
impose his policy agenda and curtail political bickering.  “Letta’s going to have to fight very hard to keep his boat
on course,” said  James Walston , a professor at the American
University in Rome. The verdict “makes the Berlusconi
supporters all the more hyped up and angry, and they’re going to
be a lot tougher on completely irrelevant issues.”  Letta’s push to forge consensus on tax breaks and spending
cuts, his remedy to end recession and reassure  Italy ’s European
Union partners, was set back yesterday with the Berlusconi
verdict. Berlusconi’s allies in parliament pledged to fight the
conviction, which the 76-year-old billionaire rejected a
political vendetta, and stepped up policy demands.  A value-added tax increase being weighed by Letta was the
object of an ultimatum by Renato Brunetta, chief whip of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party in the lower house, Ansa
reported, citing an interview with Radio Anch’io. Brunetta said
he would bring down Letta if a planned VAT increase, scheduled
to take effect on July 1, wasn’t postponed until at least the
end of the year, Ansa reported.  Berlusconi was convicted by Milan court of paying a minor
for sex and abusing the power of his office, Judge Giulia Turri
said yesterday. The decision carries a seven-year prison
sentence and lifetime ban from public office. Neither punishment
will be enforced until all appeals are exhausted. Berlusconi may
be spared jail, if the verdicts are ultimately upheld, due to
his advanced age.  Bonds Gain  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 2 basis points to 4.82
percent at 1:04 p.m. in Rome after rising to a three-and-a-half
month high yesterday. Shares in  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the broadcasting
company founded and controlled by Berlusconi, rose 4.7 percent
to 2.50 euros ($3.28). Milan-based Mediaset fell 5.3 percent
yesterday.  Letta has already met with Guglielmo Epifani, head of the
 Democratic Party , the biggest force in the coalition, and Former
Prime Minister  Mario Monti , whose Civic Choice also supports the
government.  The verdict occupied the front sections of Italy’s main
newspapers, with most, including La Repubblica and  Corriere
Della Sera , saying the sentence was tougher than expected.
Emilio Fede, a former anchor at one of Mediaset’s television
stations, said in an interview with Repubblica that the live
broadcast of the sentence “brought tears to my eyes.” Il
Giornale, a newspaper owned by Berlusconi’s brother, ran a
banner headline “Butchery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  