-- Berlusconi Convicted by Milan Court in Sex-With-Minor Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-06-24T16:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/berlusconi-convicted-by-milan-court-in-sex-with-minor-case.html
Silvio Berlusconi , the 76-year-old
billionaire and former Italian prime minister, was found guilty
by a Milan court of paying a minor for sex and abusing the power
of his office. He was sentenced to seven years although he is
unlikely to ever spend a day in jail.  Berlusconi was also given a lifetime ban from public
office, Judge Giulia Turri said in the Milan courtroom after a
two-year trial. The ruling doesn’t become binding until the end
of the appeals process, which could take months or years, and
even if the sentence were enforced, it may involve house arrest
due to his age. Turri urged prosecutors to seek perjury charges
against more than 30 witnesses in the case.  The verdict was Berlusconi’s third criminal conviction in
eight months. It may exacerbate tension within the make-shift
coalition supporting Prime Minister Enrico Letta. The two-month-old government depends on Berlusconi loyalists as well as
lawmakers who have opposed the ex-premier since his entry into
politics 20 years ago.  “Letta’s going to have to fight very hard to keep his boat
on course,” said  James Walston , a professor at the American
University in Rome. The ruling “makes the Berlusconi supporters
all the more hyped up and angry, and they’re going to be a lot
tougher on completely irrelevant issues.”  The conviction today comes even after Karima El Mahroug,
the woman at the center of the case, denied that she had sex
with Berlusconi. The former premier has said he gave her 57,000
euros ($75,000) to help her set up a business and avoid
prostituting herself. The abuse of power charge stems from a
telephone call Berlusconi allegedly made as premier in 2010 to
help secure her release from police custody.  Government Support  The verdict “confirms the intention to eliminate Prime
Minister Berlusconi from the political scene,” Paolo Bonaiuti,
a senator and spokesman for Berlusconi, said in an e-mailed
statement. Berlusconi’s lawyer Niccolo Ghedini said the ruling
is “illogical” in comments broadcast by SkyTG24 and announced
he will appeal the conviction.  Shares in  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the broadcasting company, founded
and controlled by Berlusconi, fell 5.3 percent to 2.392 euros.  Berlusconi reiterated his support for the government last
week after being dealt a setback in an unrelated case. On June
19,  Italy ’s  Constitutional Court  rejected a procedural challenge
related to Berlusconi’s October conviction for  tax fraud .
Maurizio Gasparri, a People of Liberty leader in the Senate,
said that while he wouldn’t play politics with the decision,
“we can’t pretend like nothing happened, either.”  “The subordination of politics to judicial order would be
grave and unacceptable,” Gasparri said in the statement, e-mailed on June 20.  Defend Democracy  Letta’s ability to rely on support from Berlusconi’s People
of Liberty party is being tested by trials set to continue into
next year. Party leaders, including Deputy Prime Minister
 Angelino Alfano , have reiterated their loyalty to Berlusconi and
equated their efforts to protect him from the courts with their
responsibility to defend democracy in Italy.  Berlusconi was convicted in March in a wiretapping case
related to the 2006 battle for control of Banca Nazionale del
Lavoro SpA. That verdict, which carries a one-year prison
sentence, is up for appeal.  Political Risk  Berlusconi’s trials may pose a greater threat to his
political career than to his freedom, given Italy’s flexible
sentencing and indulgence toward convicts over the age of 70.
The tax-fraud conviction, upheld on appeal last month, carries a
four-year prison sentence and five-year ban from public office.
The final appeal for that case, involving Berlusconi’s Mediaset
SpA, is underway, Radiocor has reported.  Letta, 46, and his  Democratic Party  were thrown together
with Berlusconi’s People of Liberty, or PDL, in April to resolve
a two-month government impasse. The rival forces, which
alternated stints in power for two decades, were forced to team
up after losing consensus in the February general election.
Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, the biggest opposition force,
won a quarter of the votes by taking support from both parties.  “I don’t think that political death for this government
will come at the hand of Berlusconi,” said Francesco Galietti,
founder of Rome-based public-policy analysis firm Policy Sonar.
“No one has the force to rule alone, or even the willingness to
rule alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  