-- Biggest ETF at Record Discount Signals July Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-06-24T15:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/biggest-etf-at-steepest-discount-signals-july-rally-muni-credit.html
The biggest exchange-traded fund
tracking the $3.7 trillion U.S. municipal market is selling at
its deepest discount ever to the value of its assets. That may
be a sign that tax-exempt securities are getting cheap enough to
rekindle buying.  The  $3.5 billion  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Municipal
Bond Fund, known as MUB, touched  $100.42 (MUB)  in  New York  trading
today, the lowest since April 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The move reflects yields on benchmark 10-year local debt
climbing as high as  2.68 percent  , the most since October 2011.  MUB’s losses echo those in the market for Treasuries, where
yields on securities maturing in 10 years jumped to  2.66
percent (USGG10YR) , the highest since 2011, after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may moderate purchases of
government and mortgage debt in 2013 and end them around
mid-2014 if the economy performs as forecast. Yet demand for
munis may rebound in July as investors deploy cash from
principal and interest payments, said Matt Dalton of Belle Haven
Investments Inc. in  White Plains , New York.  “Once we get past the Fourth of July holiday, we’ve got a
chance of seeing some stability come into this market because of
the reinvestment needs,” Dalton, who manages $1.6 billion of
local debt, said in a telephone interview.  Dumping Debt  Investors have been dumping munis even though they have
gained in 21 of the past 24 years in July, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. The selling last week helped push
MUB to a discount of about 2.86 percent to its net asset value,
the steepest since the fund began in September 2007, Bloomberg
data show.  While ETFs are similar to mutual funds that track an index
of equities, bonds or commodities, they are bought and sold on
 stock exchanges  and their prices may rise or fall more than the
value of the assets they hold.  “The move down in price has been so fast that the net
asset values haven’t yet been able to catch up with it,” said
Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors.  Investors are rejecting local debt as they see the value of
those securities decline, said Dalton. The S&P National AMT-Free
Municipal Bond Index, a measure of the broader market, fell 1.07
percent June 20, the biggest one-day drop since December 2010,
according to Standard & Poor’s data.  Exit Strategy  The  plunge follows investors pulling $1.86 billion out of
U.S. muni mutual funds from Jan. 1 through June 19, Lipper US
fund Flows data show. That was the first time since 2011 that
holders withdrew money from the funds for the first 24 weeks of
a year.  This year’s outflows will push yields high enough to bring
investors back to munis, Fabian and Dalton said. Even an
increase of 0.2 to 0.3 percentage points could renew buying,
Dalton said.  “When investors take a step back and the panic comes out
of their emotions, and you apply a 39.6 percent federal tax rate
to some of the yields on munis right now, you forget how
attractive they are,” Dalton said.  For investors in the highest tax bracket, 39.6 percent, the
benchmark 10-year muni yield is equivalent to a taxable return
of 4.4 percent. That’s double the  2.2 percent  dividend investors
earn on the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, Bloomberg data
show.  Reinvesting Cash  Demand for tax-exempts may increase after  Independence Day 
because investors will need to redeploy, Dalton said. Muni
holders are set to receive $128 billion of principal and
interest payments in June, July and August, $16 billion more
than last year, according to Bank of America.  In the meantime, Dalton and Ebby Gerry, who helps oversee
$15 billion of munis at UBS Global Asset Management in New York,
say they’re taking advantage of rising yields to buy at cheaper
prices as the supply of debt in the secondary market has
increased.  Mutual funds and other institutions offered as much as
 $1.27 billion  of state and local debt for sale last week, more
than double the one-year average of $551 million, Bloomberg data
show.  “It’s like a buffet, there’s so much,” Dalton said. His
firm is concentrating on buying higher-grade municipals because
that’s what mutual funds tend to sell when yields rise, he said.  While the muni market has been “brutal,” it will turn
around in the next few weeks, Dalton said.  Finding Legs  “No market trades in one direction forever,” Dalton said.
“At some point, this  bond market  will get its legs underneath
it. The opportunities that are presenting themselves today will
be quickly snapped up.”  Illinois , the lowest-rated state, will get a chance to test
investor demand June 26 when it offers $1.3 billion in general-obligation bonds, its biggest sale since May 2012, after
lawmakers were unable to agree on a plan to reduce an unfunded
pension obligation of almost $100 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  