-- Booker Says Federal ’Headwinds’ Imperil Cities Like Newark
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-06-24T19:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/booker-says-he-will-avoid-rampant-cynicism-during-senate-run.html
Cory Booker , the Newark, New Jersey,
mayor who is a Democratic candidate for U.S. Senate, said the
“headwinds” of congressional politics thwart progress on
crime, nutrition and education.  “We caught over the weekend some crews of kids sticking up
people with guns,” Booker said at a Bloomberg View luncheon in
Manhattan. Their enablers are “criminals who go to secondary
markets -- gun shows -- and buy weapons.”  “When 14-year-olds can so easily get their hands on guns,
that’s not something we’re going to stop on a local level,” he
said. The U.S. Senate in April failed to pass a bill, written in
response to the Newtown, Connecticut, school massacre, with a
bipartisan amendment to expand background checks and include the
collectors marketplace.  Crime in  Newark  through April was up 3 percent from the
same period in 2012, largely because of an increase in
robberies, as other violent offenses have declined. The mayor’s
firing of 160 police officers as a result of budget cuts was
followed by a 43 percent increase in shootings in the first six
months of 2011. Shootings had fallen 46 percent during Booker’s
first term, from 2006 to 2010.  Money Magnet  Booker, 44, is a year from the end of his second term
leading Newark, where more than 25 percent of 278,000 residents
live below federal poverty standards. A Yale-educated lawyer and
former Rhodes scholar, Booker has drawn $1 billion in economic
development, according to his office, and millions of dollars in
philanthropy from hedge-fund founders including  Bill Ackman  and
 Leon Cooperman .  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  has
pledged $100 million for schools.  In the Aug. 13 special Democratic primary, Booker will face
 Frank Pallone  and Rush Holt, who are congressmen, and Sheila Oliver from East Orange, speaker of the New Jersey Assembly.
Republicans in the race are Steve Lonegan, the former mayor of
Bogota who has run for Congress and New Jersey governor, and
Alieta Eck, a physician with a practice in Somerset. The winners
from each party will face off Oct. 16 in a Senate election.  The votes were scheduled by Governor  Chris Christie , 50, a
Republican seeking a second term, to choose a successor to  Frank Lautenberg , a Democrat who was 89 when he died June 3 of
complications related to viral pneumonia.  Cheaper Twinkies  Booker said he was frustrated by congressional standoffs
such as the one involving the $939 billion agricultural policy
bill, defeated 195-234 on June 20 as Republicans and Democrats
squabbled over crop subsidies and food stamps.  “I can go through dozens of issues that we face, from the
fact that my kids can go into a store and buy a Twinkie at a
cheaper price than an apple, right?” he said.  A lack of progress on immigration reform also is affecting
“some of the smartest people in my city right now” because
they leave such schools as the New Jersey Institute of
Technology and  Rutgers University  unable to participate in the
business incubators and loan fund started by his administration.  “They can’t get a visa to create wealth-opportunity
jobs,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  