-- Bracewell, Perkins, McGuireWoods, Barnes: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-06-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/bracewell-perkins-mcguirewoods-barnes-business-of-law.html
Four energy lawyers are joining
Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in the London office. Ben James, from
Linklaters LLP, Darren Spalding, from Allen & Overy
LLP, and Martin Stewart-Smithwill, from Morgan, Lewis & Bockius
LLP, join as partners, along with a senior counsel from Herbert
Smith Freehills LLP.  “Our goal has been to bring in people of the highest
caliber who can help us serve energy clients on energy
transactions across the globe, and these four will certainly
help us accomplish that,” Bracewell’s firmwide managing
partner Mark C. Evans said in a statement.  James, who has a particular experience in Africa, is an
energy lawyer advising oil and gas companies,  utility companies ,
private equity houses and banks on cross-border energy
transactions.  Spalding is a dedicated upstream, midstream and downstream
oil and gas lawyer, the firm said. His experience includes
international M&A, joint ventures, project development, and
long-term commodity sales and offtake agreements.  Stewart-Smith has more than 20 years of experience working
worldwide on oil and gas, power, renewables and energy services
matters. In addition to this transactional work, he has advised
governments on institutional, legal and regulatory reform in the
process of market liberalization, the firm said.  The firm, which has two full-time resident lawyers in
London, plans further growth in that office focused on
supporting the firm’s energy clients.  “These latest additions move us a step closer to achieving
our goal in London, which is to build a team of energy lawyers
of unparalleled strength and depth, dedicated to serving energy
clients,” Julian Nichol, Bracewell’s London managing partner
said in a statement.  Bracewell & Giuliani has 470 lawyers at 10 offices in the
U.S., London and Dubai.  Perkins Coie Adds to Personal Planning Practice  Perkins Coie  LLP announced that Sandra K. Newman and Lucy
K. Park have joined the firm’s  Chicago  office from K&L Gates
LLP, as part of Chicago’s personal planning group.  Newman and Park join Domingo Such, who joined the firm in
May to spearhead the firm’s Chicago personal planning practice.  “Many of our corporate, high-net worth and family office
clients need the kind of advice our Personal Planning group can
provide, and now with three partners in Chicago we have expanded
our national platform to service those needs,”  Chris Wilson ,
Office Managing Partner of Perkins Coie’s Chicago office.  Newman concentrates her practice in wealth preservation,
tax planning, trust administration, business succession planning
and charitable giving, the firm said.  Park focuses on trust and estate planning and
administration.  Perkins Coie’s personal planning group works primarily with
individuals, helping them define and meet their estate planning,
family and related needs.  Perkins Coie has more than 900 lawyers in 19 offices in the
U.S. and Asia.  International Trade and Competition Team Joins McGuireWoods  McGuireWoods LLP announced that it is expanding its
international trade, competition and EU regulatory law practice
with the addition of a four-member team in the Brussels office.  Members of the team, who are joining the firm from Squire
Sanders LLP in Brussels, include partners Vassilis Akritidis,
and Yves Melin, along with a senior counsel and associate.  The team, which is led by Akritidis, focuses on
representing companies on international trade and World Trade
Organization matters, including trade defense investigations,
WTO dispute settlement, customs law and litigation, trade
compliance training, and other matters.  The team has experience in advising clients on how to best
protect their interests throughout the EU legislative process,
the firm said in a statement.  McGuireWoods has 900 lawyers in 19 offices in the U.S. and
 Europe .  Barnes & Thornburg Expands Chicago Office With Two Hires  Barnes & Thornburg LLP announced that Mark L. Durbin and
Peter N. Moore joined the Chicago office as partners in the
litigation department. They were previously in the Chicago
office of Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP.  “Mark and Peter’s depth of experience in all types of
complex commercial and intellectual property litigation will
enhance the firm’s high-profile and nimble litigation
capabilities in Chicago,” Mark Rust, managing partner of the
firm’s Chicago office, said in a statement. “With their
arrival, Barnes & Thornburg is now one hundred attorneys strong
in Chicago.”  Durbin is a trial lawyer who represents clients in
intellectual property and complex commercial litigation disputes
and consumer class actions.  Moore has pursued and defended both patent and general
litigation cases on behalf of clients in the computer,
telecommunications, automotive, and agricultural industries,
among others.  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 600 attorneys and other
legal professionals at 12 U.S. offices.  News  Facebook Promotes Colin Stretch to General Counsel  Facebook  vice president and deputy general counsel Colin
Stretch has been promoted to general counsel of Facebook to
replace Ted Ullyot, the company said in a statement.  “Colin has been an instrumental leader on the Facebook
legal team and has earned the trust and confidence of
management, the board of directors and our entire company,”
 Sheryl Sandberg , chief operating officer of Facebook, said in a
statement.  Stretch, who will take over the role July 5, will oversee
Facebook’s legal and security departments in his new position.
He joined the company in 2010 and has overseen several key legal
challenges. He was lead negotiator for the company’s settlement
with the Federal Trade Commission in 2011. He also led the
appellate victory in Winklevoss case, and has led the team that
advises Facebook on legal issues relating to new products, the
company said.  Before joining the company, Stretch was a partner at
Kellogg Huber Hansen Todd Evans & Figel PLLC in Washington. He
previously clerked for  Supreme Court  Justice  Stephen Breyer . He
graduated from  Harvard Law School .  Profile  Why One of America’s Most Powerful Lawyers Is a Twitter Freak  As a partner at the Los Angeles-based law firm Gibson, Dunn
& Crutcher LLP and co-head of the firm’s appellate and
constitutional law practice group,  Theodore Boutrous  doesn’t
have a lot of spare time, Bloomberg Law’s Dimitra Kessenides
reports.  Amid his work for companies from Wal-Mart to the New York
Times and his challenge of California’s prohibition on same-sex
marriage, he takes time out though for Twitter.  Twitter became part of the First Amendment attorney’s media
diet in late January when @BoutrousTed was started. Today, he’s
got more than 500 followers while he follows 783 other accounts.
His stream includes everything from his take on the latest First
Amendment debate raging across the Twittersphere to pics of his
partner Ted Olson and of attorney  David Boies  on their way to
the Supreme Court to argue the Proposition 8 case in March. But
for this self-proclaimed news junkie, the “avalanche of
personally tailored news coming in all the time” keeps him on
his toes and ahead of the news curve. Boutrous talked with
Kessenides the old fashioned way: by telephone.  To read the interview, click here.  Litigation  Astor’s Son Jailed More Than 3 Years After His Sentencing  The son of the late New York philanthropist and socialite
Brooke Astor and his lawyer began their jail sentences last
week, more than three years after they were convicted of
defrauding Astor.  Anthony Marshall, 89, was convicted in October 2009 of
grand larceny and other charges for changing his mother’s will
while she was incompetent. He was sentenced to one to three
years in prison for acts that included giving himself a $1
million raise for managing his mother’s money.  Marshall in February 2010 filed motions to vacate his
conviction, claiming juror misconduct. State Supreme Court
Justice A. Kirke Bartley Jr. upheld the conviction of Marshall
and his co-defendant, lawyer Francis X. Morrissey, in July 2010
and Marshall appealed.  A midlevel state appellate court affirmed the decision in
March and New York’s highest court this month declined to hear
the case. Bartley this week refused to let Marshall stay out of
jail because of poor health and denied him a new trial based on
the alleged juror misconduct.  Morrissey was taken to jail June 20 and Marshall
surrendered in Manhattan June 21 to begin serving his sentence.  The case is People v. Marshall, 06044-2007, New York
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  Government Lawyers  Obama Nominating Ex-Bush Justice Official Comey for FBI Chief  President  Barack Obama  said he’s nominating James Comey, a
former deputy attorney general in the  Bush administration , as
director of the FBI.  “I’m confident that Jim will be a leader who understands
how to keep America safe as well as stay true to our founding
ideals no matter what the future will bring,” Obama said of
Comey in the White House Rose Garden.  Comey, 52, whose nomination is subject to Senate
confirmation, would replace  Robert Mueller  as head of the
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation. Obama called Mueller “one of
the finest directors in the history of the FBI.”  Comey would take over the agency at a sensitive time, as
officials manage inquiries into the  Boston Marathon bombings ,
Internal Revenue Service screening of small-government groups
and leaks about confidential government operations.  After he left the government in 2005, Comey was general
counsel at defense contractor  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and then
hedge fund Bridgewater Associates LP after he left the
government in 2005. Most recently he was appointed to the board
of London-based bank  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  as a nonexecutive
director.  Comey played a role in a dramatic episode during President
 George W. Bush ’s administration when he refused to reauthorize a
warrantless eavesdropping program after being pressured by White
House officials.  At the time, Attorney General John Ashcroft was
hospitalized, and Bush’s White House advisers were attempting to
persuade him to reauthorize the program. Comey, with Mueller,
went to his hospital room to intercept the White House aides
seeking Ashcroft’s approval. Ashcroft said he had concerns about
the legality of the plan and deferred the decision to Comey, who
refused the request.  Video  Coyle: Robert’s SCOTUS Doesn’t Respect Congress  Marcia Coyle, Chief Washington Correspondent for The
National Law Journal, talks with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia
about her new book entitled “The Roberts Court: The Struggle
For The Constitution.” Coyle also comments on Justice Scalia’s
noteworthy concurrence in the Myriad Genetics case, speculates
on the future makeup of the Court and gives her predictions on
the forthcoming decisions on the recent same sex marriage cases.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 