-- Brazilian Swap Rates Tumble as Real’s Inflation Concern Eases
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2013-06-24T22:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/brazilian-swap-rates-decline-as-real-s-inflation-concern-eases.html
Brazil’s swap rates fell the most in
four years as the real rebounded, easing speculation that a two-month currency rout will spur the central bank to sustain the
pace of increases in borrowing costs to curb inflation.  The real climbed for a second day as President  Dilma
Rousseff  called for a plebiscite on political reform after
meeting with leaders of the protest group Passe Livre in
response to two weeks of street protests demanding improved
public services and criticizing corruption. The currency also
strengthened as concern eased that a cash crunch in  China  may
undermine the global economy.  Swap rates due in January 2016 fell 46 basis points, or
0.46 percentage point, to 10.82 percent in Sao Paulo after
earlier climbing 22 basis points. The drop was the biggest since
March 2009, when the world was struggling to recover from the
financial crisis. The real appreciated 0.7 percent to 2.2268 per
dollar after falling 1 percent. The currency slid to 2.2575 on
June 20, the weakest level since April 2009, driving up the cost
of imported goods. Yields on the benchmark fixed-rate bonds due
in 2023 dropped 36 basis points to 11.27 percent, paring a
seven-week rout.  “Rousseff’s meeting with leaders of the Passe Livre
movement could have helped the real to gain,” Joao Paulo de Gracia Correa, currency manager at Correparti Corretora, said in
a telephone interview from Curitiba,  Brazil . “The market abroad
is also improving.”  During a televised meeting with governors and mayors,
Rousseff called for the plebiscite as well as agreements to
quicken investment in healthcare and improve the quality of
transportation. She said the government was willing to reduce
the tax on diesel and wouldn’t accept vandalism.  Bond Buyback  The government bought back 380 million reais of zero-coupon
bonds in a fifth unscheduled offer since June 13 to support its
securities. The Treasury purchased 25 percent of so-called LTNs
offered amid a global market rout that has intensified in Brazil
as the nationwide anti-government protests turned violent.  In a local-bond auction today, the Treasury sold 45 percent
of fixed-rate bonds, known as NTN-Fs, that it offered and 77
percent of zero-coupon bonds. In total, it sold 1.1 billion
reais of the securities.  Fernando Garrido, the Treasury’s general coordinator, told
reporters in Brasilia that the government isn’t planning any
more auctions beyond those that are scheduled, after canceling
an auction for inflation-linked bonds.  Swap rates rose earlier today as economists in a weekly
central bank survey raised their median forecast for year-end
inflation to 5.86 percent from 5.83 percent. They lowered their
outlook for growth this year to 2.46 percent from 2.49 percent.  The central bank plans to sell up to 66,000 currency swap
contracts in an auction tomorrow, according to a statement
today.  Inflation Quickens  Consumer prices  as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 0.38
percent in the month through mid-June, the national statistics
agency reported June 21. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 0.36 percent.
Annual inflation accelerated to 6.67 percent, higher than the
6.50 percent upper level of the central bank’s target range.  The central bank raised its  target lending rate  by 50 basis
points on May 29 to 8 percent to curb inflation, surprising 38
of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, who had expected a
second straight increase of 25 basis points.  The state of Sao Paulo will suspend a 6.5 percent increase
in road tolls that was scheduled to take place July 1, Governor
Geraldo Alckmin told reporters today.  Sao Paulo  and  Rio de
Janeiro  canceled increases in bus, train and subway fares last
week after they sparked the street protests, the biggest in
almost two decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  