-- Canada Dollar Touches Almost 2-Year Low After Breaching Levels
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-24T21:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/canada-dollar-approaches-2-year-low-after-breaching-key-levels.html
The Canadian dollar weakened beyond
C$1.05 per U.S. dollar to reach its lowest point in almost two
years on bets the U.S. currency will strengthen when the  Federal
Reserve  ends monetary stimulus.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, depreciated
against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s said last week policy makers may
begin reducing $85 billion of monthly bond purchases this year
if the economy achieves the central bank’s objectives. Monetary
stimulus tends to devalue a currency.  Canada ’s dollar pared its
losses after Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said
investors shouldn’t overreact to Bernanke’s statement.  “Given the underlying price action and the sentiment out
there in the market there’s still potential for Canada to
continue to weaken off here and the dollar in general to
strengthen,” said Matthew Perrier, director of foreign exchange
at Bank of Montreal, by phone from Toronto. “I think you look
for opportunistic corrections in the market to get in long-dollar positions if you’re not in any.” A long position is a
bet an asset will increase in value.  The loonie fell 0.4 percent to C$1.0501 per  U.S. dollar  at
5 p.m. in Toronto, after reaching its lowest level since Oct. 5,
2011. One loonie buys 95.23 U.S. cents.  Fed Comments  Investors shouldn’t overreact to the U.S. central bank’s
plans to reduce the pace of asset purchases, Fisher said in an
interview with the Financial Times published today on its
website. Investors behaved like “feral hogs” after the June 19
comments by Bernanke, he said, according to the newspaper.  “He’s trying to reinforce that they’re still easing, so
that’s something that’s going to weigh a bit on the U.S.
dollar,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain
Capital Group LLC, by phone from New York.  Canada’s 10-year benchmark government  bonds  fell, with
yields rising four basis points or 0.04 percentage point, to
2.49 percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023
lost 32 cents to C$91.39.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, gained 1.3
percent to $94.90 per barrel in  New York  and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks fell 1.2 percent.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart traded at 8.87 percent, the
highest point in a year. Implied volatility, which traders quote
and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings.  The loonie touched the 100 percent Fibonacci retracement
level of its appreciation in the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. If the loonie closes below the C$1.0556
per U.S. dollar level that would suggest there are additional
losses ahead, according to  George Davis , chief technical analyst
for fixed income and currency strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank
of Canada, in an e-mail message.  The 14-day  relative strength index  versus the greenback
fell to 29.92 percent, less than the 30 percent level some
traders see as a sign an asset has weakened too quickly.  “There’s no technical levels left any more, they’re all
gone,” said  Greg Anderson , head of global foreign exchange
strategy at Bank of Montreal. “U.S  yields is the number one
story that’s driving global equities low, it’s driving global
commodities lower, and it’s got people kind of panicking out of
emerging market currencies, and secondarily, out of the
commodity currencies.”  Technical Levels  The cost to insure the Canadian dollar against declines
versus its U.S. counterpart fell from its highest point in
almost a year. The one-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal
rate fell to 1.7900, after reaching 1.8550 June 21, the highest
since July 2012. Risk reversals measure the premium on options
contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts
that do the opposite.  The Canadian dollar has fallen along with the currencies of
fellow commodity exporters in the past month against a basket of
nine developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The loonie weakened 1.2 percent
while the Australian and New Zealand dollars lost 3.9 percent
and 4 percent, respectively. The U.S. dollar has gained 0.8
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  