-- Carl Icahn Seeking $5.2 Billion in Loans for Dell Takeover Bid
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   J e a n n i n e   A m o d e o
-- 2013-06-24T20:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/carl-icahn-seeking-5-2-billion-in-loans-for-dell-takeover-bid.html
Carl Icahn  is approaching investors
for $5.2 billion in loans backing his buyout offer for personal
computer maker  Dell Inc. (DELL)   Icahn tapped Jefferies Group LLC to arrange a $2.2 billion
six-year term loan and a $3 billion 3 1/2-year term piece,
according to a person with knowledge of the offering, who asked
not to be identified because terms aren’t set. Jefferies will
host a call with lenders at 4 p.m. today in New York.  Icahn has teamed up with the bank to push ahead with a bid
to oppose  Michael Dell ’s $24.4 billion buyout of the company he
founded. The plan proposed by Icahn, who is seeking a bigger
payout for shareholders, is “unrealistic” because of a $2.9
billion shortfall, Dell said in a regulatory filing today.  “Investors are clearly willing to listen and open to new
ideas,” David Novosel, an analyst at Gimme Credit LLC in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “The new proposal could
have better or worse terms but investors on the debt side want
to know what the equity commitments are. It helps Icahn if he
offers concrete detail.”  The six-year loan will pay interest at 4 percentage points
more than London interbank offered rate with a 1 percent minimum
on the lending benchmark, the person familiar with the offering
said. The $3 billion portion is being offered at 3.5 percentage
points more than Libor with a 0.75 percent minimum.  Icahn is proposing a deal that asks Dell to tender 1.1
billion shares at $14 apiece, compared with $13.65-a-share deal
outlined in a February proposal by Dell and private-equity firm
Silver Lake Management LLC. Shareholders get to vote on that
proposal at a special meeting set for July 18.  Previous Financing  The value of Icahn’s proposed $14-a-share offer would be
reduced to about $8.15 a share based on the estimated shortfall,
a special committee for Dell’s board said in the regulatory
filing.  The original proposal to take Dell private consists of
$13.75 billion in debt financing, including a $4 billion term B
loan, a $1.5 billion C slice, a $2 billion asset-backed piece,
and $3.25 billion of bridge facilities, according to a May 31
filing. Credit Suisse Group AG, Barclays Plc, Bank of America
Corp. and Royal Bank of Canada are arranging the debt.  Icahn’s proposal is “unlikely to succeed,” Albert
Saporta, an analyst with Makor Capital, said in a report today.
“We keep the probability of the LBO going through on the
original terms at 70 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Amodeo in New York at 
 jamodeo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  