-- Cavalli Rules Out Sale Amid Renewed Investor Interest in Luxury
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-06-24T14:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/cavalli-rules-out-sale-amid-renewed-investor-interest-in-luxury.html
Cavalli Group, the Italian fashion
house that dressed actress Jennifer Hudson at the Oscars, ruled
out selling a stake any time soon, resisting interest from
industry buyers, wealthy families and private-equity firms.  “We are on the radar of all these people, but our priority
is to work on the business,” Chief Executive Officer Gianluca Brozzetti said in an interview yesterday at a presentation of
Cavalli’s spring-summer 2014 menswear collection in Milan. “We
are not entertaining any type of conversation with anybody.”  The luxury market will continue to consolidate as financial
investors seek to tap rising demand in fast-growing economies
and large luxury groups look to benefit from scale, according to
Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Mario Ortelli. Potential buyers are
“looking at luxury with a lot of interest,” Cavalli said.  Deals this year include Gucci-owner  Kering SA (KER) ’s
acquisitions of ring-maker Pomellato SpA and clothier
Christopher Kane, and private-equity fund Clessidra SGR’s
purchase of jeweler Buccellati Holding Italia SpA.  Gianni Versace SpA, an Italian maker of $950 flower-print
jeans, said yesterday it expects to decide as soon as October if
it will sell a minority stake publicly or privately to fund
growth. Worldwide luxury sales will rise 4 percent to 5 percent
this year as booming demand in Southeast Asia offsets a slowdown
in China and Europe, Bain & Co. estimates.  Sales in Cavalli’s stores increased 23 percent between
January and the first week of June, or 11 percent on a like-for-like basis, Brozzetti said, citing strong demand in North
America, northern Europe and Asia. Southern Europe is beginning
to recover after a tough start to the year, he also said.  The maker of  $2,305 rayon jackets  expects to register
similar retail revenue growth in the second half of the year as
it increases its store count to about 200, Brozzetti said.  Revenue reached 185 million euros in 2012. Earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization represented 11
percent of revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Milan at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  