-- CF Industries Sued by Tecas Town Damaged by Blast
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-06-24T17:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/cf-industries-sued-by-tecas-town-damaged-by-blast.html
     June 24 (Bloomberg) -- CF Industries Holdings Inc., the
largest U.S. producer of nitrogen fertilizer, was sued by the
City of West,  Texas , for more than $1 million in damages caused
by the explosion of a local plant it supplied.  The town sued the chemical feedstock maker on claims it
should have inspected the West Fertilizer Co.’s facilities
itself and issued its own safety warnings to the local community
on the explosive risks of ammonium nitrate.  CF Industries is “better able to protect inhabitants of
the communities where they distribute large quantities of
ammonium nitrate than either public sector agencies or the small
fertilizer mixing facilities from whom they reap financial
gain,” the town said in a complaint filed June 21 in state
court in Waco.  The company shipped 200 tons of fertilizer to the plant
during the six weeks before an April 17 explosion killed 15 and
damaged the small town’s high school, middle school and
infrastructure, according to the complaint. The blast damaged
more than 150 structures across a 35-block area.  The lawsuit follows CF Industries statement June 15 that
one person died and seven were injured after a blast at a plant
in Donaldsonville, Louisiana. The company said the accident
happened when an inert nitrogen vessel ruptured.  Ammonium Nitrate  West claimed in its complaint that CF Industries, based in
Deerfield,  Illinois , was allegedly “negligent in failing and/or
refusing to include an additive/coating that would have
prevented the ammonium nitrate from detonating/exploding,” when
a fire of unknown origin overheated some of the fertilizer
stored at the site.  CF Industries didn’t immediately respond to voice or e-mail
messages left with its media relations department seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  The complaint also named Adair Grain Inc., the plant’s
owner, which was sued in April by townspeople and insurance
firms seeking damages over the deadly blast. At least 33
residents of the town and four local insurance agencies are
suing Adair, according to court records and the victims’
lawyers.  The case is City of West, Texas vs. CF Industries, 2013-2476, District Court of McLennan County, Texas (Waco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  