-- China Money Rates Tumble for Second Day on Targeted PBOC Easing
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-06-24T08:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/china-money-rates-tumble-for-second-day-on-targeted-pboc-easing.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rates
tumbled for a second day, extending a retreat from record highs,
on signs targeted injections of funds are being used to ease a
cash crunch that threatens to worsen an economic slowdown.  Interbank loans were recorded in the final hour of trading
on both June 20 and 21 at below-market rates, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The People’s Bank of China said the
nation should “appropriately fine-tune” its policies,
according to a statement yesterday that summarized the monetary
policy committee’s second-quarter meeting in Beijing. The
monetary authority gauged demand for sales of  repurchase
agreements  and reverse-repo contracts this morning, according to
a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.  The overnight repurchase  rate  dropped 196 basis points, or
1.96 percentage points, to 6.47 percent in Shanghai, according
to a daily fixing compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It plunged 442 basis points on June 21, from a record
12.85 percent, and is still more than double this year’s average
of 3.09 percent. The seven-day  rate  fell 118 basis points today
to 7.32 percent, following a decline of 227 basis points on June
21, a separate fixing showed.  “Persistently high short-term rates will further dampen
China’s already sluggish real economic activities,” said Liu Li-Gang, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.’s chief
China economist in Hong Kong. “While the new government appears
to be able to tolerate low growth, it will have to honor its
growth target of 7.5 percent set this year. Otherwise, it runs
the risk of losing its credibility.”  Forecasts Cut  China International Capital Corp. cut its 2013 forecast for
expansion in  Asia ’s biggest economy to 7.4 percent from 7.7
percent, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its projection
to 7.4 percent from 7.8 percent. Growth held below 8 percent for
each of the last four quarters, the first time that has happened
in at least 20 years, official data show.  The cash crunch has caused bond sales to fail and is
prompting some issuers to scale back or cancel offerings. China
Development Bank Corp. scrapped plans to sell 20 billion yuan of
debt tomorrow, according to a statement posted to
Chinabond.com.cn, the Chinese government bond clearing house
website. That came after at least 11 domestic companies delayed
bond sales totaling some 7 billion  yuan  last week, according to
company statements posted on Chinabond.  ‘Fine-Tune’  It was the first time since September that the PBOC’s
monetary policy committee, led by Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan , has
used the “fine-tune” phrase. China will strive to make its
monetary policies more forward-looking, targeted and flexible,
the central bank said yesterday, adding that it is paying close
attention to developments in global and domestic financial
markets as well as changes in international capital flows.  Yuan positions  at local financial institutions accumulated
from sales of foreign exchange, an indication of capital flows
into China, rose 66.86 billion yuan in May, the central bank
reported on June 14. That was the smallest gain since November.  “Following the quarterly policy report, I think the PBOC
will do more to ease monetary conditions,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Credit Agricole CIB strategest in  Hong Kong . “They
probably are trying to make a point that the current mismatch
creates systemic risks and want to make a point that banks can’t
rely on policy makers to always protect them.”  There is a reasonable amount of liquidity in the financial
system and banks should control risks from credit expansion,
including those associated with maturity mismatch, the central
bank said in a June 17 statement posted today on its website.  Targeted Injections  An intra-day  gauge  of the overnight repo rate was at 6.65
percent as of 4:46 p.m. in Shanghai, after climbing as high as
15 percent earlier. It touched a record 30 percent on June 20.
Six transactions for overnight loans between banks were recorded
on June 21 after 3:50 p.m. in  Shanghai  at rates of 5 percent to
6 percent, compared with the average for the whole day of 9.9
percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. For seven-day
 contracts , the last two trades were made at 5.5 percent each,
compared with the day’s average of 10.1 percent.  On June 20, there were five overnight transactions recorded
after 3:30 p.m. at rates of 4.11 percent to 4.35 percent, while
the average for the whole day was 13.94 percent. For seven-day
contracts, there were five trades after 3:55 p.m. at rates of
4.72 percent to 4.75 percent, compared with the day’s average of
12.61 percent.  “It shows the PBOC is entering into the markets in order
to bring down money-market rates,”  Liu said.  The Shanghai interbank offered  rate , or Shibor, for one-month yuan loans dropped 234 basis points today to 7.36 percent,
the biggest decline since October 2007, according to a fixing
from the National Interbank Funding Center. The June 21 rate of
9.70 percent was the highest in data going back to 2006.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, slid 19 basis
points to 4.25 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
reached an all-time high of 5.06 percent on June 20. The yield
on 2.62 percent government bonds due April, 2014 increased six
basis points to 3.95 percent, according to the National
Interbank Fund Center prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  