-- China Gold Output Seen Rising to Record by Mining Group
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-25T06:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/china-gold-output-seen-rising-to-record-by-mining-group.html
Gold output in China, the world’s
largest producer, is poised to rise almost 10 percent this year
to a record even as bullion prices slump, the nation’s mining
association said.  Output may rise to as much as 440 metric tons, said Wang
Jiahua, executive vice chairman at the China Mining Association.
The country, which overtook  South Africa  as the largest producer
in 2007, had output of 403 tons in 2012, according to data from
the Beijing-based group, an affiliate of the Ministry of Land
and Resources.  Bullion extended its drop this year to 23 percent and  hedge
funds  cut bets on a rally by the most since February after the
 Federal Reserve  said it may slow a bond-buying program that’s
been pumping stimulus into global markets. That hasn’t deterred
buyers in the second largest economy, which may pass  India  as
the largest gold consumer as early as this year as regulators in
Beijing make investing in the precious metal easier.  “Gold’s role as a tool for wealth protection is still
widely recognized in  China ,” Wang said in interview in
Zhaoyuan, Shandong province, on June 21. “The global economy
isn’t out of the woods yet -- the European sovereign debt crisis
hasn’t been solved and many still wonder if Abenomics in Japan
will work, so gold’s downside should be limited.”  Production gained 12 percent in the first four months from
a year earlier to 122.89 tons, according to the producer-funded
China Gold Association, which publishes estimates monthly.  Investor Interest  “We haven’t heard of any Chinese miners opting to lower
production because of the gold rout,” said Le Yukun, head of
metals and mining research at BOC International China Ltd. in
Shanghai. “All we can see now is that the slump in  gold prices 
will curb investor interest in gold-mining assets.”  Every 10 percent drop in gold prices is likely to reduce
profits at Chinese gold miners by at least 20 percent, according
to Le.  Gold was little changed at $1,283.07 an ounce at 2:30 p.m.
Beijing time. The precious metal fell 6.8 percent last week.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its forecasts for gold through
2014 after selling quickened as investors priced in expectations
of reduced asset purchases by the Fed. In a report dated June
23, the bank cut its target for the end of this year to $1,300
an ounce from $1,435 and lowered its prediction to $1,050 from
$1,270 for the end of 2014,  Zijin Mining  Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899) , China’s largest gold miner by
market value, is seeking overseas investments as the slump in
bullion has reduced valuations abroad, Lan Fusheng, vice
chairman at the company said on June 20.  “We are looking at a number of projects,” Lan said in a
interview. These included the three Australian projects that
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  put up for sale, Lan said, adding that Zijin
hadn’t made an official offer yet because it is concerned about
the quality of the mines and high production costs in  Australia .  Zijin’s shares tumbled 5.4 percent to HK$1.41 at 1:31 p.m.
in  Hong Kong , bringing this year’s loss to 54 percent. Shares of
 Zhaojin Mining Industry Co. (1818)  slumped 6.5 percent to HK$5.19.  “Share prices of gold miners usually tend to fall faster
and by a bigger measure than the underlying gold prices on the
way down,” Le at BOC International said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  