-- China Cash Crunch Puts Pressure on Small Banks, Moody’s Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-24T10:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/china-cash-crunch-to-put-pressure-on-smaller-banks-moody-s-says.html
China ’s worst cash squeeze in at
least a decade may weigh on smaller banks’ financial strength as
their reliance on  interbank funding  leads to an erosion of loan
margins, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Mid-sized banks got 23 percent of their funding and capital
from the interbank market at the end of last year, compared with
9 percent for the largest state-owned banks, Moody’s said in an
e-mailed statement today. Those banks will probably compete
“more aggressively” for deposits amid the credit crunch, which
would increase cost of funds, it said.  China’s money-market rates, which climbed to a record high
last week before retreating for a second day today, have
triggered a drop in shares of  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (600016)  and
 China Merchants Bank Co. (600036)  on investor concern that funding may
tighten and curtail credit growth. Slowing economic growth and
efforts to rein in shadow banking have contributed to higher
borrowing costs and rising bad loans.  “The ultimate goal of the policy makers is to force banks,
especially the smaller ones, to deleverage,” said Wilson Li, a
Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. “It’s
time to clean up their act.”  Shares of Minsheng Bank tumbled 10 percent, or the daily
limit, to 8.51 yuan in Shanghai trading. The stock fell 8
percent in Hong Kong, the most since November 2011, extending
its loss this month to 24 percent. Merchants Bank, which
declined 4.6 percent today in Hong Kong, has lost 20 percent
this month.  Industrial Bank Co. (601166)  fell 10 percent in Shanghai to
the lowest since December, and has dropped 26 percent in June.  Targeted Injections  The  one-day repurchase rate  touched an unprecedented 13.91
percent on June 20 before tumbling on signs targeted injections
of funds are being used to ease a cash crunch that threatens to
worsen the economic slowdown. The People’s Bank of China said in
a statement yesterday that the nation should “appropriately
fine-tune” its policies.  Non-performing loans may rise more rapidly in the coming
months as weaker borrowers find it hard to refinance credit,
Moody’s said today.  Bad loans  at banks including  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ,
the nation’s two largest, have increased for six straight
quarters through March 31, the longest deterioration streak in
at least nine years.  Eliminating Speculation  Premier Li Keqiang last week signaled a determination to
stamp out speculation funded by cheap money by saying banks must
make better use of existing credit and step up efforts to
contain financial risks. The government aims to direct money
toward economic growth following a credit boom that has fueled
property-price gains, local-government debt risks, and a wave of
wealth-management products.  Regulators are forcing trust funds and wealth management
plans to shift assets into publicly traded securities, taking
so-called shadow banking funds away from property developers and
local-government finance vehicles. The China Banking Regulatory
Commission told banks in March to cap investments of client
money in debt that isn’t publicly traded at 35 percent of all
funds raised from the sale of wealth management products.  The outstanding amount of wealth-management products --  or
financial instruments used by banks to collect funds for periods
from 30 days to a year -- rose by 500 billion  yuan  ($81 billion)
to 13 trillion yuan in the first five months of this year,
accounting for 16 percent of the nation’s deposits, according to
estimates published by Fitch Ratings on June 10.  Default Risks  Mid-sized banks get an average of 20 percent to 30 percent
of their funds from such products, which pay investors higher
yields than the benchmark bank savings rate, Fitch said on June
21, without naming specific lenders. That makes those banks more
susceptible to default risks on the products.  Minsheng, based in Beijing, and Fuzhou-based Industrial
Bank were the most aggressive in also using short-term borrowing
from the interbank market to generate off-balance sheet loans
that allowed them to dodge loan quotas and capital requirements,
Guotai’s Li said. A significant part of such loans went to
trusts, local government financing vehicles and real estate
developers, he said.  “If something goes wrong on the interbank market -- such
as a sudden, severe cash crunch, or some black-swan event such
as a bank run -- their current business structure may not be
able to withstand these shocks,” said Chen Xingyu, a Shanghai-based analyst at Phillip Securities Group. “This will force
them to strengthen their internal controls and take a more
prudent approach when it comes to their lending and borrowing
business.”  Tapping Banks  From 2009 to 2012, mid-sized banks including China Citic
Bank Corp., Huaxia Bank Co. and Ping An Bank Co. increased
borrowing from the interbank market by 43 percent annually, more
than twice as fast as the larger banks, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. estimates from June 21. They now receive 21
percent of their interest income from interbank loans, compared
with an average 5 percent for bigger lenders such as ICBC and
CCB, Bernstein said.  “It is the smaller banks and the A-share listed banks that
may run into either earnings headwinds or funding problems if
the tightness in the interbank market persists,” wrote Mike Werner, an analyst at Bernstein.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in  Shanghai  at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  