-- China Dissident Says He’s Considering Many Options for After NYU
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2013-06-24T10:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/china-dissident-says-he-s-considering-many-options-for-after-nyu.html
Blind Chinese legal activist  Chen Guangcheng , who escaped from house arrest last year and went to
the U.S., said he expects to have many options after the end of
his fellowship at  New York  University.  Chen declined to discuss a statement he issued June 17
saying that  China ’s Communist Party pressured the school for him
to leave, in a threat to academic independence. Speaking at a
Taipei briefing, he also declined to say where he’ll go next.  Chen, whose activism includes a class-action lawsuit
against forced abortions and sterilizations of village women in
China, is visiting  Taiwan  until July 11 at the invitation of
human rights groups on the island. The dissident was given
shelter at the American embassy in Beijing on April 26, 2012
after he fled house arrest in his native Shandong province.  He arrived in the U.S. in May last year to begin a yearlong
fellowship at NYU after the U.S. State Department reached a
resolution with Chinese officials, who issued Chen a passport.  Taiwan’s President Ma Ying-jeou said in a June 23 statement
that he has no plans to meet with Chen.  Chen said such meetings aren’t critical for advancing his
cause, and he appreciates there are reasons for the Taiwan
president’s position.  “Those reasons represent the threat
posed by China’s authoritarian regime,” Chen said.  In the June 17 statement, Chen said “the Chinese
Communists had already begun to apply great, unrelenting
pressure on  New York University ” for him to leave. NYU received
permission from the Chinese government to open a campus in
 Shanghai , and its first class begins in September.  Chen has an offer from the Princeton, New Jersey-based
Witherspoon Institute and is in negotiations with  Fordham
University , Bob Fu, the president of the Midland, Texas-based
Christian aid group China Aid, who has worked with Chen, said in
an email June 18.  The Witherspoon Institute has  published articles  on its
website saying that same-sex marriage is harmful to children and
the institution of marriage itself.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  