-- China Beige Book Shows Fewer Firms Borrowing as Rates Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-25T00:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/china-beige-book-shows-fewer-companies-borrowing-as-rates-rise.html
Chinese bankers are reporting
increased lending while fewer companies are taking out  loans , an
incongruity that helps explain the recent increase in borrowing
costs, a private survey showed.  The number of companies reporting loan applications in the
second quarter fell 13 percentage points from the previous
period to 38 percent, the survey from New York-based China Beige
Book International said yesterday. The proportion of banks
showing higher lending to businesses rose 10 percentage points
to 45 percent, indicating that “ credit  appears to be
concentrated on a few borrowers,” according to the report.  The lending disparity is part of a picture of slowing
economic  expansion  across the country, according to the survey,
which began last year and is modeled on the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s Beige Book. The findings add to signs of a cash
squeeze in financial markets that pushed interbank borrowing
costs to a record last week.  China ’s benchmark money-market  rates  tumbled for a second
day yesterday, extending a retreat from record highs, on signs
of targeted injections of funds.  At the same time, inflation in wages and property is
“still notable,” which indicates “another quarter of  policy 
restraint and no large amount of new liquidity entering the
economy,” according to China Beige Book.  Survey Size  The survey, based on responses from more than 2,000
companies and banks across the country between May 13 and June 3,
is divided among eight regions.  The latest China Beige Book showed fewer retailers
reporting revenue growth along with a “sharp” pullback in
service industries. An increased number of  retailers  said at
least 60 percent of sales were to consumers.  Capital spending rose in transportation and was unchanged
in manufacturing while weakening in retail, services, real
estate and mining, according to the report. The property market
cooled, while the labor market was “stable,” China Beige Book
said.  Interest rates on loans averaged 7.10 percent, up 34 basis
points from the previous quarter, while bond yields of 7.11
percent were up 80 basis points, according to the report.  The cash squeeze has unsettled corporate treasurers and led
to a slump in domestic bond sales. At least five companies in
China canceled or delayed scheduled bond sales of 32.1 billion
 yuan  ($5.2 billion), according to statements posted online.  State-owned policy lender China Development Bank Corp. said
it scrapped a sale of as much as 20 billion yuan originally
planned for today, without giving detailed reasons, according to
a statement posted on Chinabond.com.cn, the government bond
clearing house website. Chongqing Shipping Construction
Development Co. said it postponed issuing 500 million yuan of
five-year securities because of recent market volatility.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  