-- China Crude Stockpile Rises to Six-Month High as Refineries Shut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-24T05:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/china-crude-stockpile-rises-to-six-month-high-as-refineries-shut.html
China ’s commercial crude stockpiles
rose in May to the highest level in six months as more
refineries shut for maintenance, reducing demand.  Crude inventories, excluding emergency reserves, climbed
4.8 percent from a month earlier, China Oil, Gas &
Petrochemicals, a newsletter published by the official Xinhua
News Agency, reported today. Supplies increased to 30 million
metric tons, or about 220.2 million barrels, the highest since
November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s 83 biggest refineries closed 2.2 million tons of
crude-processing capacity for maintenance in May, the most this
year, according to ICIS C1, a Shanghai-based commodities
researcher. That’s more than an average of about 1.4 million a
month in 2012. Refining dropped to 9.2 million barrels a day
last month, 10 percent below a record in December, National
Bureau of Statistics data on June 9 showed.  “Throughput was obviously less” than  output  and net
imports in May, leading to the stockpile gain, OGP said today.  China is the largest oil consumer after the U.S., according
to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S. had
394.1 million barrels of commercial  crude inventories  in mid-June, Energy Information Administration data shows.  ‘Summer Harvest’  Diesel stockpiles in the Asian nation fell 8.9 percent, the
newsletter said. Supplies were at 8.95 million tons, the lowest
since December, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  “Diesel oil demand further increased on summer harvest
activities,” according to OGP. Consumption will expand 2.3
percent this quarter from a year earlier to 42.75 million tons,
it said on May 1, citing research by China National Petroleum
Corp., the country’s biggest oil company.  Gasoline stockpiles climbed 0.6 percent from April to 7.09
million tons in May, while kerosene supplies dropped 1.9 percent
to 1.56 million tons, the data show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  