-- China Loses Control of Its Frankenstein Economy
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-06-24T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/china-loses-control-of-its-frankenstein-economy.html
The world has grown used to the idea
that China’s leaders are masterful stewards of their gargantuan
economy. They steered brilliantly around the iceberg of the 2008
financial crisis, maintaining growth of near-double-digit rates.
So when People’s Bank of China chief  Zhou Xiaochuan  began
clamping down on excessive liquidity last week, some observers
viewed him as a Chinese  Paul Volcker . Now that the worst was
over, Zhou seemed to indicate, it was time for China to rein in
lending and prevent a credit bubble from swelling.  Then reality intervened. After the overnight repurchase
rate zoomed to a record 13.91 percent, Zhou had to back off,
hastily injecting fresh funds to stem the turmoil. The chaos
traumatized money markets. Some were dismayed by signs that Zhou
would end the era of easy money in China. Others feared that he
couldn’t.  Indeed, continuing unease this week underscores how limited
Zhou’s powers actually are. Over the past decade,  China’s
economy  has grown addicted to excessive credit growth, with
state-owned banks encouraged to finance as many new skyscrapers,
highways, airports, dams and ghost towns as needed to pump up
gross domestic product. Free-flowing liquidity -- mostly to
state-owned enterprises -- kept stocks and real estate buoyant,
foreign investors bullish and China’s 1.3 billion people away
from  Tiananmen Square .  Zhou can’t cut off the money now without banks suffering
from withdrawal. And the danger is that nobody really knows how
healthy China’s giant, state-owned banks are, or how big its
shadow-financing system has grown. When  Stephen Green  of
Standard Chartered Plc in  Hong Kong  called China’s credit system
“a big black box, and it’s quite scary,” he wasn’t
exaggerating.  Mystery Data  How can anyone trust that China is growing at a rate of 7.7
percent, as the government claims, when crucial variables in its
data tabulation are a mystery? Bank of America Corp. economist
Lu Ting in Hong Kong risked China’s ire by alleging its  trade
surplus  was 1/10 the $61 billion it reported as of mid-May. The
nobody-knows character of China’s credit system -- quantity,
quality or excesses -- is even more worrisome.  The U.S. shadow-banking system, with its off-balance-sheet
vehicles and murky dealings, helped drive world markets off the
rails in 2008. Imagine the damage an entire shadow economy could
cause if it unravels.  China ’s leaders avoided bursting one bubble in 2008 by
creating new ones. Yet  China  cannot forever delay its day of
reckoning. Total credit may reach 200 percent of GDP this
quarter, up from 130 percent in 2008. Mainland banks are
currently adding assets at the rate of an entire U.S. banking
system every five years.  Traditionally, Beijing has viewed opacity as a powerful
tool for policing the channeling of funds between banks and
companies. That murkiness is now proving dangerous. The central
bank needs to confirm it will rein in interbank liquidity,
explain the means by which it plans to do so, and indicate what
the endgame is. Its vague, boilerplate statements are only
exacerbating distress in the markets.  At the same time, Zhou is fundamentally helpless: He cannot
be truly effective unless the country’s top political leadership
decides that the Communist Party is going to get out of the
banking business. China needs to allocate capital less
recklessly and price it according to economic reality, not
according to the dictates of officials who profit from the
current arrangement. If the government really wants to reduce
the role of state-run companies in China’s economy -- as it
should, because only a thriving private sector can increase
innovation and competitiveness -- it must privatize the banks
first.  Powerful Creature  Putting off that hard task has turned the Chinese  economy 
into a Frankenstein monster. It’s a giant and powerful creature
born of unorthodox experiments, and its makers are increasingly
losing control.  No one envies Chinese President Xi Jinping and Premier  Li Keqiang . They must manage a slowing economy and institute
critical reforms, all without panicking the markets and
destabilizing Chinese society. They should study the precedent
set by former premier Zhu Rongji, whose efforts to modernize
state-owned enterprises in the late 1990s put more than 40
million Chinese out of work but added much-needed balance to the
economy.  Any shock therapy will be painful. And to be effective, it
must treat the underlying problem, not just the symptoms.
Otherwise, Zhou’s every effort to drain credit will only send
waves of panic through the markets. He’s right that China’s
Frankenstein needs to be stopped. But only its creators can do
that.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 