-- Citigroup Venturing Into Iraq Gets Approval for Baghdad Office
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-06-24T09:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/citigroup-venturing-into-iraq-gets-approval-for-baghdad-office.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  got Iraqi approval to
open an office in Baghdad, as it seeks to become the first  U.S.
bank  to enter a country where fewer than one in five people have
an account.  Iraq ’s central bank gave preliminary consent to set up the
representative office, Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. lender,
said in an e-mailed statement today. Former diplomat Dennis Flannery, who has run the bank’s Iraqi desk from Amman, Jordan,
for two years, will manage the operation. Branches are also
planned for Erbil and Basra, it said.  “Iraq is an important market, with an economy that has
substantial potential over time,” said Jame Cowles, chief
executive officer for Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa.
“Having a presence in Iraq will position us to better attune
our services to the banking needs of our clients as they grow
and develop their businesses in the country.”  Banks in Iraq are set for growth in earnings and assets as
a surge in lending in OPEC’s second-biggest producer outpaces
the region. Iraq’s rising oil exports and a drop in the prime
lending rate to 6 percent from 17 percent in 2008 are feeding
the expansion. Standard Chartered Plc has said it will open
branches this year in Baghdad and the city of Erbil, followed by
a third office next year in the oil hub of Basra.  Ban Lifted  Foreign banks were barred from the country until after the
U.S.-led invasion that ousted the regime of  Saddam Hussein .
Today, 15 international banks operate there, competing with
seven state banks, 23 private lenders and nine banks operating
under Islamic rules, according to the central bank’s website.  Total credit in the country amounts to 9 percent of gross
domestic product compared with an average of 55 percent in the
Middle East and North Africa, according to Singapore-based
Sansar Capital Management LLC, which runs a fund with $30
million invested in Iraqi equities.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest proven oil deposits
and is budgeting $118 billion in spending this year, up 18
percent from 2012. The International Monetary Fund forecasts
that the economy will grow 9 percent this year, the fastest pace
after Libya among 18 countries in the region.  Flannery was the financial attache at the U.S. embassy in
Baghdad for a year before joining New York-based Citigroup in
March 2011. He has worked at the  Inter-American Development
Bank , the  U.S. Treasury  and the  World Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  