-- Coffee Futures Rise as Rain Delays Harvest; Sugar Advances
-- B y   M a r l e y   D e l D u c h e t t o
-- 2013-06-24T19:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/coffee-futures-rise-as-rain-delays-harvest-sugar-advances.html
Coffee futures rose for a second
straight session on speculation that rain will slow the harvest
in  Brazil , the world’s largest producer. Sugar also gained.  Heavy precipitation will cover Parana and the southern part
of  Sao Paulo  state this week, according to forecaster Somar
Meteorologia in Sao Paulo. The Mogiana region and the southern
part of  Minas Gerais  state, where nearly half of Brazil’s coffee
is grown, will get more scattered rainfall, Somar said today in
an e-mailed report. Plantations are located mostly in Minas
Gerais, Sao Paulo and Parana. Brazil is expected to produce 48.6
million bags in 2013, the country’s crop-forecasting agency,
known as Conab, said on May 14.  “We’ll have a harvest delay because we have rain in some
parts of Brazil that is going to slow down harvesting right
now,”  James Cordier , the founder of Optionsellers.com in Tampa,
 Florida , said in a telephone interview.  Arabica coffee for September delivery rose 0.7 percent to
settle at $1.2015 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York. Prices rallied 0.8 percent on June 21, after touching an
almost four-year low of $1.171 on June 20. Trading was 60
percent lower than the average over the past 100 days for this
time of day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Raw-sugar futures for October delivery climbed 1.2 percent
to 17.14 cents a pound on ICE. Trading was 42 percent higher
than the 100-day average for this time of day, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Heavy rains this week from  Rio Grande  do Sul to Mato Grosso
do Sul and Sao Paulo will disrupt fieldwork across cane areas,
Somar said. The country is also the biggest producer and
exporter of sugar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marley DelDuchetto in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  