-- Cuomo Can Craft Winning Campaign Plank From Abortion Loss
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-06-24T14:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/cuomo-can-caft-winning-campaign-stance-from-abortion-loss.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  couldn’t get a
bill aligning  New York  and U.S. abortion law past Republican
state senate leaders. By pushing the issue in next year’s
campaign, he can still come out ahead politically in  Albany 
while burnishing his image among female voters nationwide.  The abortion measure scuttled the 55-year-old Democrat’s
10-point Women’s Equality Agenda, as Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, refused to coordinate with the
senate after key Republicans there blocked a vote on that part
of the proposal. Lawmakers had passed the nine other elements,
including tougher penalties for human trafficking and failing to
provide equal pay for jobs done by women instead of men.  Cuomo says he plans to promote his 10-point agenda to
voters, including the majority of Republicans who favor abortion
rights, heading into an election year. He’ll be backed by about
850 advocacy groups such as the National Organization for
Women’s  New York City  branch as he tries to counter a national
trend among Republican-led states to limit abortion.  “This will give him an enemy to fight against next year --
the anti-choice forces across the country,” Hank Sheinkopf, a
Democratic political consultant based in New York City, said by
telephone yesterday. “This is a case where Governor Cuomo wins,
in fact, by losing.”  Presidential Element  Republicans in states from  North Dakota  to  South Carolina 
have pushed a record number of laws to restrict when and how
women can obtain an abortion in recent years. Cuomo, considered
a potential presidential contender in 2016, has said he wants to
take New York in the opposite direction.  The governor was blocked in the legislative session that
ended last week, as Republican senate leaders, joined on June 21
by longtime abortion opponent Ruben Diaz, a Bronx Democrat,
prevented a vote on that part of Cuomo’s plan. Lawmakers won’t
return to work in Albany until January.  “At the moment, the governor, the speaker and the women’s
groups are all losers substantively on the issue of abortion,”
said  Steven Greenberg , a pollster for Siena College in
Loudonville, New York. “Politically, the governor is in a
strong position because he’s advocating both what the public
supports and what the women’s groups want him to do.”  Melissa DeRosa, Cuomo’s communication’s director, said the
protections in the governor’s agenda have broad bipartisan
support.  “The public will hold individual legislators accountable
if they stand in the way of finally achieving equality for women
in New York state,” DeRosa said in a statement e-mailed today.  Protecting Women  The abortion measure Cuomo is pushing would decriminalize
the procedure after 24 weeks of pregnancy when a woman’s health
-- not just her life -- are at risk. The bill would maintain the
status quo if the U.S. Supreme Court rolls back its 1973 Roe v.
Wade decision making abortion legal, the governor has said.  “People have a right to know if a politician is pro-choice,” Cuomo said in a June 17 radio interview. “This is
going to be an electoral decision, and it’s going to be in the
re-election campaigns of these senators.”  Trying to change New York law on abortion is an
“unnecessary and purely political maneuver,” said Kelly
Cummings, a spokeswoman for Dean Skelos, the Rockville Centre
Republican who co-leads the senate.  Legislators Balk  Lawmakers also balked at passing anti-corruption measures
Cuomo pushed following the arrests of two senators and an
assemblyman since April.  Cuomo has said he’ll respond this week with a commission
that’ll hold subpoena powers to investigate lawmakers. He used a
similar commission after  Hurricane Sandy  to examine the response
by utilities. Yesterday, that panel referred to federal
prosecutors questions regarding billing practices of the  Long
Island  Power Authority, which left thousands of customers
without power weeks after the Oct. 29 storm.  Skelos, whose suburban New York district is on Long Island,
said in a June 11 radio interview that the senate has its own
investigations committee to look into official corruption, if
needed.  Cuomo had sought to create a system for publicly funding
political campaigns modeled after one used in New York City.
Skelos, whose party holds sway in the senate thanks to four
breakaway Democrats, has said he thought the money for the
program could be better spent on education.  The gridlock on the corruption and abortion measures was a
departure for Cuomo’s relationship with senate Republicans. The
two sides have worked together to make same-sex marriage legal
and pass some of the nation’s toughest gun laws.  Democrats around the state used the abortion issue to
attack Republicans in the November election, helping them retake
a senate majority even as they were outspent about 4-to-1,
according to Bruce Gyory, who teaches politics at the  State
University of New York  at Albany. By a 5-to-1 margin, voters in
a March Siena College poll favored Cuomo’s abortion measure,
including a majority of Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  