-- Czech Leader Picks Ex-Finance Minister as Prime Minister
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-06-25T15:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/czech-leader-set-to-name-technocrat-premier-in-snub-to-parties.html
Czech President Milos Zeman named
Jiri Rusnok, a former finance minister, to head the interim
government, snubbing parties from the ruling coalition and
opposition in a move designed to trigger early elections.  Zeman, the  Czech Republic ’s first directly elected head of
state, made his choice even as political parties said they
wouldn’t back it. Rusnok will need parliamentary approval after
Premier Petr Necas resigned June 17 amid a spying and bribery
scandal. The Civic Democratic party objected to the move and
said its coalition has the 101 votes needed to stay in power.  “The only way to initiate early elections in the Czech
Republic is to name a technocratic government,” Zeman said
after today’s naming ceremony in Prague castle. “Most of the
public, and I don’t mean just my voters, wouldn’t want” a
continuation of the current coalition “with or without Necas.”  A technocratic government would bypass the current three-way ruling coalition, which has proposed parliamentary Speaker
Miroslava Nemcova for premier as it tries to prevent the early
ballot backed by the poll-leading  Social Democrats . The main
opposition party has pledged higher taxes and more spending to
pull the $217 billion  economy  out of a record-long  recession .  Spying Scandal  Necas was forced to resign after police charged his closest
aide with illegal spying. The scandal added to public discontent
with austerity measures that hurt household spending. Necas, who
quit after three years in power, credits deficit reduction with
helping to cut borrowing costs.  The yield on the Czech 10-year koruna bond, which reached
an all-time low 1.48 percent on May 17, fell 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 2.4 percent as of 5:10 p.m. in Prague,
holding below comparable U.S. Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Civic Democrats, the strongest party in coalition that
backed Necas, would get 8 percent in an election compared with
the 20 percent they received in the 2010 ballot, the Prague-based polling company PPM Factum said June 21.  “The  Social Democratic Party  insists on early elections,”
leader Bohuslav Sobotka told reporters after Zeman named Rusnok.
A vote on dissolving parliament, a pre-condition for calling the
early election, may take place in mid-July, he said.  Confidence Vote  By law, Rusnok’s government needs to win a simple majority
at a confidence vote in the lower house within 30 days of being
appointed. If it fails, it would stay in office on a caretaker
basis and Zeman has no constitutional deadline for naming a
replacement before the next scheduled elections in May 2014.  Rusnok, 52, will resign as chief executive officer of  ING
Groep NV (INGA) ’s Czech pension fund on June 30, spokeswoman Daniela
Velova said by phone. He served as Zeman’s finance minister in
2001-2002, a period when the  fiscal deficit  widened to 6.5
percent of economic output from 3.6 percent.  “There is no other majority in parliament than the
solution that we proposed,” Nemcova said today. “We are
wasting our time with an attempt that we already know is a dead-end.”  The Social Democrats, promised to raise some income taxes
to pay for higher spending the party says is needed to revive
the economy. The party would get 29 percent in an election,
compared with their 22 percent showing in 2010, according to the
June 14-20 poll of 945 people by PPM Factum, which didn’t
provide a margin of error.  Sobotka said his party won’t support a technocratic Cabinet
and will seek to secure the 120 votes in parliament needed to
dissolve the assembly and force a snap election.  “Waiting for early elections would be like Waiting for
Godot,” Zeman said. “The opposition doesn’t have the power to
get 120 votes and the ruling coalition hasn’t so far shown any
interest to be a part of the 120 votes.”  The Czech Republic has a history of political instability.
It’s had seven governments led by six prime ministers since
Zeman finished his four-year term in 2002 and two interim
Cabinets since 1998.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  