-- Dell Projects Icahn’s Offer Has $2.9 Billion Funding Gap
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2013-06-24T19:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/dell-projects-icahn-s-offer-has-2-9-billion-funding-gap.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  said the tender offer
proposed by billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  as an alternative to
a planned buyout by Chief Executive Officer Michael Dell has a
$2.9 billion funding shortfall, making it less valuable.  After accounting for near-term debt obligations and minimum
cash needs to run the company, Icahn’s $14-a-share offer would
be worth about $8.15 per share, a special committee for Dell’s
board said in a regulatory filing today.  The committee is pointing out shortcomings in Icahn’s offer
ahead of a  shareholder  vote set for next month, seeking to
attract backing for the CEO’s plan to take the third-largest
personal computer maker private with Silver Lake Management LLC.
Icahn and partner Southeastern Asset Management Inc. last week
urged the PC maker to make a tender offer for about 1.1 billion
shares, his third push to derail the $13.65-a-share buyout
proposed by the CEO.  “Michael has repeated the liquidity shortfall -- the debt
will cripple the company claim -- so many times that no
imaginable variant of it will influence the vote,” said  Erik Gordon , a professor of business and law at the  University of
Michigan  in  Ann Arbor . “Institutional investors who hold large
numbers of votes are less interested in another round of it than
they are in the price per share and the solidity of Icahn’s
financing.”  ‘Scare Tactic’  While Icahn’s proposal projects $15.6 billion in liquidity,
the company will actually have $12.7 billion, according to
Dell’s board committee. The difference includes $1.4 billion in
debt maturing through April 2014 and $1.5 billion in cash needed
to run the company.  Existing cash doesn’t need to be used to pay down debt,
Icahn said in a telephone interview today.  “What they are saying is ludicrous and is a normal scare
tactic,” Icahn said.  Icahn has said he’s working to line up $5.2 billion in debt
for the proposed tender offer, and Jefferies Group LLC is
willing to make $1.6 billion available, according to a person
familiar with the plan who asked not to be identified because
the information isn’t public.  Committee’s Calculations  To calculate the value of Icahn’s proposal, Dell’s board
committee assumed that 87.5 percent of holders would tender
their shares, according to the filing. Icahn and Southeastern
combined have a stake of about 13 percent, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg, while the CEO holds more than 15 percent
of the company he founded.  The Silver Lake-Dell bid is the only binding and fully
financed offer the company received in the sale process started
in August, and no one else has been able to reach or beat that
price,  Michael Dell  said in a filing last week.  A vote on the deal, which requires approval from a majority
of holders excluding Michael Dell, is set for July 18.  Dell shares fell less than 1 percent to $13.33 at 3:08 p.m.
in  New York . They had climbed 32 percent this year through June
21, compared with a 12 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  