-- Dollar Index at Almost 2-Week High on Flight to Safer Assets
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-06-24T21:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/dollar-erases-gain-versus-euro-after-reaching-two-week-high.html
The Dollar Index traded at almost a
two-week high as investors fled higher-yielding currencies in
favor of the relative safety of dollar-denominated assets.  The U.S. currency fluctuated versus the euro before U.S.
reports tomorrow that economists said will show durable-goods
orders gained and house prices increased as the Federal Reserve
may reduce monetary stimulus if economic improvement is
sustained. The greenback erased a gained against the euro after
Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher said investors shouldn’t
overreact to the central bank’s plan to slow bond purchases. The
Swedish krona slid to a seven-month low versus the dollar.  “People are rotating out of assets that they overreached
for as the grab for yield unwinds,” Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.
“The dollar will be the beneficiary of people looking to unwind
liquidity- or carry-fueled trades.”  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the U.S. currency against those of six trading
partners, rose 0.1 percent to 82.433 at 5 p.m. in New York after
climbing to the highest level since June 5.  The dollar was little changed at $1.3120 per euro after
earlier appreciating to the strongest level since June 5. The
U.S. currency weakened 0.2 percent to 97.73 yen. The yen added
0.2 percent to 128.22 per euro.  Carry Trade  Deutsche Bank AG’s G10 FX Carry Basket index fell to
112.25, the lowest level since September. It gained 6.8 percent
in 2012 after declining the previous two years as weak economic
data in the U.S.,  Japan  and the euro region led to speculation
that central banks would keep rates low and inject money to
boost growth. With those conditions waning, volatility has
increased, which is negative for the carry trade because it
depends on predictable interest rates across jurisdictions.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Group of Seven Volatility Index ,
based on currency option premiums, rose to as high as 11.96
percent today, the most since January 2012. The gauge has
averaged 8.76 percent in the past year.  Dallas Fed President Fisher, in an interview with the
Financial Times published on its web site today, said investors
behaved like “feral hogs” after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
discussed tapering on June 19.  “The statements from President Fisher, along with the lack
of any major economic reports out of the U.S. today, have
encouraged investors to scale back their exposure to the
greenback,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a senior market analyst in
 Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a telephone interview. “Markets are
hypersensitive to commentary out of the Federal Reserve.”  Fed Views  This week will see speeches from Fed Bank of Atlanta
President Dennis Lockhart, Fed Bank of Richmond President
Jeffrey Lacker, Fed Bank of Cleveland President Sandra Pianalto
and Fed Bank of San Francisco President John Williams.  The premium for one-year options granting the right to sell
the euro against the dollar relative to those allowing for
purchases is at 1.88 percentage points, the most bearish since
Sept. 13.  “Long-term yields in the U.S. have continued to jump
higher over the last week,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in
a telephone interview. “That’s driving some inflows and
strength into the U.S. dollar. There’s been a reassessment of
the whole liquidity story and what will be the impact on rates
across the board.”  Rand, Krona  The South African rand strengthened against all 16 of its
major peers after sovereign bond yields climbed to their highest
level on a closing basis in a year. The rand increased 0.9
percent to 10.0713 per dollar.  Sweden’s krona declined versus most of the majority of its
most-traded counterparts as Chinese stocks fell the most in four
years, signaling a bear market. The currency dropped 1.4 percent
to 6.7642 per dollar after depreciating to the least since Nov.
16. It has tumbled 4.8 percent in the past week.  The Norwegian krone fell against the majority of major
currencies, slipping as much as 1.9 percent to 6.1737, the
lowest since December 2010.  U.S.  durable-goods  orders increased 3 percent in May after
rising a revised 3.5 percent the previous month, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Commerce Department
report.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index  of home values for 20 cities
climbed 10.6 percent for the year ended April after a 10.9
percent gain in March that was the biggest since 2006, a
separate survey showed.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $34.4 billion, compared with $62 billion on June 21,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $8.3 billion, the
largest share of trades at 24 percent. Euro-dollar options were
the second most-actively traded, at $6.4 billion, or 19 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 31 percent above the average
for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
141 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  