-- Donors Comprising .01% of Population Gave 28% in 2012
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-06-24T15:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/donors-comprising-01-of-population-gave-28-in-2012.html
They’d fill fewer than half the
seats at a typical football stadium in the U.S., yet 31,385
individuals contributed 28 percent of the $6 billion spent on
the 2012 election.  This elite group of donors -- just .01 percent of the  U.S.
population  -- made up a greater proportion of federal political
contributions than in any campaign season since at least 1998,
according to a report on “ the 1 percent of the 1 percent ”
released today by the Washington-based Sunlight Foundation. The
nonprofit group advocates for campaign-finance transparency.  Sheldon Adelson , the billionaire chairman of casino company
 Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , and his wife, Miriam, together
contributed almost $100 million to Republican candidates and
committees, making them the top donors. The leading giver among
Democratic donors was Fred Eychaner, chief executive officer of
Newsweb Corp., a Chicago-based media company. He gave about $14
million. The most common employer of those in the group was
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the report found.  “We pretty well knew that political giving is quite
unequal in this country, but when you look at all of the data,
it really pops out just how concentrated it is,” said Lee
Drutman, the report’s author. “As the amount of money it takes
to run for office continues to increase, the need to raise money
from the elite becomes that much more important.”  Super-PAC Giving  The report’s findings emphasize the increasing influence of
wealthy donors, who can contribute unlimited sums to super-political action committees.  Those super-PACs, in turn, buy television advertisements
and make other expenditures supporting their preferred
politicians, circumventing contribution limits to candidates and
other kinds of political committees. This method of giving
sprang up after 2010 court rulings and federal policy changes.  Left out of the report because of a lack of data is
information about who funds the nonprofit groups that often
participate in politics. Those “social welfare” groups
reported to the  Federal Election Commission  that they spent $300
million on campaigns last year. They can keep their donors
secret and don’t have to disclose political spending that falls
outside the FEC’s narrow reporting requirements.  The median contribution from the subset of elite donors
that Sunlight analyzed was $26,584, according to the report,
which is more than half of the median family  income  in the U.S.  Election Gatekeepers  Entry to “elite” status required donations equaling
$12,950, more than ever before, the report says. Some donors
went well beyond that, with the top 10 percent of the 31,385
donors contributing more than half of the group’s almost $1.7
billion investment.  “A tiny sliver of Americans who can afford to give tens of
thousands of dollars in a single election cycle have become the
gatekeepers of public office in America,” according to the
report, compiled using donor data from the Center for Responsive
Politics, based in  Washington .  Sunlight’s report examines common characteristics of the
donors, finding that almost 72 percent of them were male and
they were most likely to be from Washington or  New York .  About 16.5 percent of the 31,385 donors listed their
occupation as “CEO” or “chairman” of a company. Eighty-five
Goldman Sachs employees contributed about $4.7 million. Other
frequently listed companies include private-equity firm
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , legal and lobbying firm Kirkland & Ellis
LLP and investment bank  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Republican Advantage  The report showed that while both parties rely upon top
donors, Republicans benefited more than Democrats in the 2012
campaign. For instance, the  National Republican Senatorial
Committee  raised more than half of its $105.8 million from the 1
percent of the 1 percent, while the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee took in about 13 percent of its $128.9
million from those donors, according to the report.  Every member of Congress elected in 2012 received some
money from these donors, and 86 percent of House members
received more money from these wealthy givers than from all of
their small-dollar donors -- those giving less than $200 --
combined.  A  Gallup poll  released today shows that 79 percent of
Americans would vote for a law limiting the amount of money
candidates for the U.S. House and Senate can raise and spend on
political campaigns. In that same poll, half of Americans said
they’d vote for a law that installs a government-funded
campaign-finance system and bans all contributions from
individuals and private groups.  Topping the Sunlight report’s list of members with the
greatest share of elite donor contributions was House Minority
Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, who saw more than 40
percent of her $2.3 million in campaign checks come from them.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, had the
highest number of elite donors, 2,525 individuals who gave 31
percent of the $22 million he raised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  