-- Dubai Stocks Drop to Lowest Since May Amid Emerging-Market Rout
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-06-24T11:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/dubai-stocks-drop-most-since-march-2012-in-emerging-market-rout.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index
slumped to its lowest in more than a month, leading declines in
the  Middle East , amid an emerging-market rout after China
signaled it will maintain efforts to curb credit.  The DFM General Index lost 1.9 percent to close at 2,255.97
in Dubai. The measure, the second-best performer this year after
Ghana’s among 93 benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg, plunged as
much as 5.1 percent as volume fell to about a third the 30-day
average. Abu Dhabi’s ADX General Index retreated 1.1 percent.  “The higher you rise the faster you fall,”  Mark Watts ,
head of the National Bank of Abu Dhabi’s asset management group,
said by phone today. “The  United Arab Emirates  has had a
stupendous year-to-date performance, so it’s only natural that
if people are looking to lighten up on emerging-market exposure
they will target the ones that have risen the highest.”  Emerging-market stocks tumbled to a one-year low, with the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index falling 1.4 percent at 2:36 pm in
Dubai. China’s shares lost the most in four years after the
central bank signaled it will maintain efforts to curb
speculative lending and Goldman Sachs said a cash squeeze is
hurting growth.  Encouraging Sign  Dubai’s measure has retreated 5.7 percent in the last three
days.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the builder of the world’s tallest
tower in Dubai, fell 2 percent today, while Dubai Investments
PJSC slid 4.2 percent.  “The fact the market recouped 50 percent of its losses
during the session is an encouraging sign that it could find a
bottom for the time being,” Fadi Al Said, senior  fund manager 
at ING Investment Management in Dubai, said by e-mail.
“Emerging market and international managers are locking in
profits made in the U.A.E. markets after a great performance.”  Dubai’s benchmark is still up 39 percent this year, while
 Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark has rallied 34 percent.  Elsewhere in the Middle East, Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All
Share Index (SASEIDX)  fell 0.7 percent. Oman’s MSM30 Index dropped 0.9
percent, Kuwait’s SE Price Index declined 1.6 percent, Bahrain’s
measure lost 0.4 percent and Qatar’s QE Index retreated 0.6
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net ;
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  