-- Dudley Says Effective Fed Policy Hinges on Stability
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-06-24T15:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/dudley-says-effective-fed-policy-hinges-on-stability.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said the central bank failed to meet
its mandate for stable prices and maximum employment after the
U.S. economic rebound fell short of projections.  Even after the Fed’s “aggressive shift” toward greater
accommodation in 2008 and 2009 and easing that helped spur
growth and support housing, the economic recovery has been
“consistently weaker than forecast,” Dudley said yesterday in
Basel, Switzerland, according to  the text  of a speech posted
today on the New York Fed’s website.  “The Federal Reserve has fallen short of meeting its
employment and inflation objectives,” Dudley said. “This
suggests that with the benefit of hindsight, U.S. monetary
policy, though aggressive by historic standards, was not
sufficiently accommodative relative to the state of the
economy.”  The Federal Open Market Committee last week voted to press
on with $85 billion in monthly bond purchases aimed at spurring
growth and bringing down 7.6 percent unemployment. The jobless
rate has been 7.5 percent or higher for more than four years
even after the central bank reduced the main interest rate near
zero in December 2008.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in a press conference after
the FOMC meeting on June 19 that the Fed may start tapering its
bond buying later this year and halt it around mid-2014 if the
economy achieves sustainable growth the central bank has sought
since the recession ended in 2009.  Stocks Slide  Stocks and bonds tumbled worldwide after Bernanke’s
decision. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 1.3 percent to
1,571.31 as of 10:57 a.m in New York, extending its loss since
June 18 to about 5 percent. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
rose 0.08 percentage point to 2.61 percent.  Dudley also said financial stability is a “necessary
condition” for monetary policy to effectively achieve its
goals. “The biggest lesson of the financial crisis has been
that monetary policy cannot work properly when there is
financial instability,” Dudley said at the Bank for
International Settlements 2013 annual general meeting.  “Financial instability can impair the linkage between
monetary policy and financial conditions,” Dudley said. “The
central bank may move to a much more accommodative monetary
policy stance, but this may not lead to much improvement in
financial conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  