-- The Court’s Unsatisfying Affirmative-Action Decision
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-24T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/the-court-s-unsatisfying-affirmative-action-decision.html
There will come a day when the U.S.
 Supreme Court  decides that affirmative action is no longer
constitutional. The question is whether that day comes before or
after the rest of America decides that affirmative action is no
longer necessary.  All that’s certain is that neither day is today. In a  7-to-1 ruling , the court agreed that the  University of Texas  can
consider race as a factor in admissions. A diverse student body,
wrote Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, “is a constitutionally
permissible goal.” How a university goes about reaching that
goal, however, is a question for the courts, which must satisfy
themselves that there are “no workable race-neutral
alternatives” to achieving it. The Supreme Court returned the
case to the lower courts to figure this out.  Kennedy’s decision may have saved affirmative action for
the moment. But as  Noah Feldman  argues elsewhere on  Bloomberg
View , it sets a high bar for keeping the policy alive. The
decision also joins a long line of unsatisfying jurisprudence
from the court on this issue.  The court’s  first major foray  into the constitutionality of
university affirmative-action programs, in 1978, was a six-opinion, 45,000-word extravaganza that both ordered the
university to admit the white applicant who had been denied
admission and found the very policy that had resulted in his
denial constitutional. Twenty-five years later, the court  ruled
that  universities were still free to pursue “race-conscious”
admissions programs in order to achieve a “critical mass” of
minority students, but left undefined exactly what constitutes a
“critical mass.”  The legitimacy of affirmative action,  as we’ve noted ,
centers on this question: How much is enough? It’s a question
that  dominated oral arguments  in the case the court decided
today -- yet goes unmentioned, except in passing, in Kennedy’s
13-page opinion.  In the court’s defense, it is a hard question. Also in the
court’s defense, there is no public consensus on the wisdom of
affirmative action. Although support has been declining for
years, the American people are pretty much  evenly divided  on the
need for it.  To observe that affirmative action is an imperfect solution
to a real problem hardly qualifies as novel commentary. “In
order to get beyond racism, we must first take account of race,”
sighed Justice Harry Blackmun 35 years ago; it’s what Justice
Sandra Day O’Connor was referring to when in 2003 she wrote
hopefully that the court would no longer have to address this
issue in 25 years. Both justices, it’s worth pointing out, were
upholding university affirmative-action programs.  No one disputes the need for America’s institutions to
reflect America’s diversity. The success of a multicultural
nation depends on its ability to engage and reward all strands
of society.  So what happens if the lower court decides sometime next
year or the year after that  Texas ’s affirmative-action program
is unconstitutional? Then it will be up to Texas and other
universities,  116 of which  filed briefs in support of its
program, to devise other ways to increase diversity on campus.  Texas’s  Top 10 Percent Rule , which requires the university
to admit any high school student who graduates in roughly the
top 10 percent of his or her class, shows one way forward.
(Although, as Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  pointed out in her
dissent, the rule depends on segregation at the high school
level to produce diversity at the college level.) Or,
universities could  focus more  on class instead of racial
diversity, which would also help reduce rising inequality.
Finally, they could do more to recruit qualified low-income
students,  many of whom  aren’t even applying to college.  None of these policies would be without controversy. They
all raise the fairness question: Why should some applicants get
special consideration? To which one might respond: The
university admissions process will never be completely fair. The
difference between the last student to gain admission and the
first one denied will always be arbitrary. Life, as  someone once
said , is unfair.  Whether that unfairness is also unconstitutional is a
question raised by race-based affirmative-action programs.
Someday soon -- perhaps as early as next year, as the court has
agreed to hear  another case  about a state affirmative-action
program -- the court seems likely to conclude that it is. It
will then be the public’s turn to decide on the next phase in
the contentious but necessary work of making America’s diverse
society more just, open and fair.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 