-- LME Looking at Feasibility of Clearing Products in Yuan, Li Says
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   A l f r e d   C a n g
-- 2013-06-24T09:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/lme-looking-at-feasibility-of-clearing-products-in-yuan-li-says.html
The London Metal Exchange is looking
at the feasibility of clearing products in yuan, according to
 Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) , owner of the world’s
largest metals bourse.  The company will also study the potential development of
yuan-denominated commodity products for HKEx platforms, Chief
Executive Officer Charles Li said in a statement today as it
signed a memorandum of understanding with  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  The
bank clears the currency for Hong Kong, Macau and  Taiwan  and its
investment-banking unit became an LME clearing member last year.  The HKEx’s push signifies a further effort to promote the
currency of the world’s second-largest economy as a global one,
and comes a month after Beijing pledged to propose plans this
year for capital-account convertability. Li, a Chinese, was the
architect of the $2.2 billion purchase of the LME, which he
plans to use to make inroads into  China , the largest consumer of
everything from base metals to soybeans.  The agreement with BOC and the LME “marks the beginning of
our collaboration to examine the feasibility of LME contracts to
be cleared” in yuan and potential development of yuan-denominated commodity products, Li said. The accord, which came
on the first day of LME Week Asia in Hong Kong, covers
cooperation and information exchange, according to the statement.  HKEx, the second-largest bourse operator, said last week
that it plans to list yuan-denominated commodity contracts
including iron ore, coal and farm products. The initial products
would be cash-settled, according to a spokesman, as opposed to
those on the LME, where users settle via physical delivery.  Li said in October that HKEx wanted to bring more volume to
the LME, and may help the exchange to reduce trading curbs in
China and also establish registered warehouses on the mainland.
Last year, Liz Milan, managing director for LME Asia, said that
the LME may offer the option of clearing and settling trades in
 yuan  as part of its planned new clearing house.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  