-- Lebanon Troops Killed in Clash With Anti-Hezbollah Sunnis
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-06-24T12:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/lebanon-troops-killed-in-clash-with-anti-hezbollah-sunnis.html
Syria ’s civil war ignited a new
outbreak of sectarian violence in Lebanon, with at least 37
people reported killed in battles between the army and
supporters of a cleric who declared holy war on President Bashar al-Assad.  Twelve Lebanese soldiers were killed and more than 50 were
wounded in a shootout with followers of Sunni Muslim cleric
Sheikh Ahmed al-Assir outside the southern city of Sidon, the
official National News Agency reported. More than 25 gunmen
loyal to the cleric were killed, the Beirut-based Daily Star
newspaper reported on its website, citing unidentified security
officials. Soldiers fought with snipers positioned on rooftops,
and gunmen also shot at troops near a Palestinian refugee camp
in Sidon, the NNA said.  Sidon has turned into a “war zone,” the city’s
municipality said in a statement. “The situation is tragic.
There is no water or electricity. Fear is ruling on the streets
and in the neighborhoods.”  The civil war in Syria has inflamed sectarian violence in
its smaller neighbor, whose modern history has been intertwined
with Syria’s and plagued with conflict. The turmoil sent
Lebanon’s credit risk rising 53 basis points last week, the
biggest increase since August, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The benchmark  BLOM Stock Index (BLOM)  fell 0.4 percent today.  ‘Iron Fist’  The army said its troops came under unprovoked attack and
vowed in a statement to “strike with an iron first against
whoever dares to spill the army’s blood.” It said military
operations in Sidon will continue until “security is completely
restored to the city and its surroundings.”  Violence was also reported in the northern city of Tripoli,
the scene of repeated clashes between supporters and opponents
of the Syrian government. There was an explosion near a major
traffic circle and hundreds of gunmen were roaming the streets
today, some firing in the air, while a hand-grenade was thrown
at a barber’s shop, the NNA said.  Al-Assir was among Lebanese clerics who called for a holy
war to defend Sunnis in Syria, members of Islam’s main branch,
against Assad’s government and Hezbollah, a Lebanese Shiite
Muslim group propping up his army. Assad belongs to the Alawite
sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.  Peace Talks  Hezbollah’s open military support for Assad has deepened
the polarization in the region between Islam’s two main sects.
The Iranian-backed group helped Assad to retake a strategic town
in Syria this month, prompting the Sunni-ruled Gulf Cooperation
Council countries, including  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, to label
Hezbollah a terrorist organization.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has authorized the provision of
small arms to the Syrian opposition, and joined 10 other
countries on June 22 in pledging support to the rebels. The move
may obstruct talks set to take place in Geneva, Syrian Foreign
Minister Walid al-Muallem told a news conference today.  The Syrian government plans to take part in the talks
“with all seriousness, to stop the violence,” he said. The
timing of the conference and the final list of participants
haven’t been announced yet.  Syria’s civil war has left more than 93,000 dead since
March 2011 and driven more than 1.5 million refugees into
neighboring countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  