-- Egypt’s Unemployed Target Mursi After Toppling Mubarak: Jobs
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-06-24T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/egypt-s-unemployed-target-mursi-after-toppling-mubarak-jobs.html
Mohamed Kamel and dozens of other
engineering graduates have gathered outside  Egypt ’s Oil Ministry
and a state-run energy company in Cairo for months, clamoring
for jobs. During one of their demonstrations, he says, they were
chased away by security guards wielding sticks and belts.  Kamel, 23, blames his unemployment on the regime of
President Mohamed Mursi. On June 30, he plans to join nationwide
protests marking the first year of Mursi’s presidency and
demanding early elections. Kamel is among those who say Mursi
has failed to create jobs or revive the economy, among the
complaints that sparked the 2011 uprising ousting  Hosni Mubarak .  “We are all frustrated and are in a bad psychological
state,” Kamel said of his fellow job-seekers. “I will be
demanding that this regime leave because it has proved to be a
failure.”  More than 1 million people have swelled the ranks of
Egypt’s unemployed since the first quarter of 2010, bringing
 joblessness  to a record 13.2 percent in the same period this
year. Eight out of every 10 jobless Egyptians are under 30, and
more than a quarter of them hold university degrees or higher,
official data show.  “Economic grievances pose the greatest threat to Mursi’s
rule,” said Yasser el-Shimy, a Cairo-based analyst with the
 International Crisis Group , which tracks conflict around the
world. Many unemployed youths feel “left out of this whole
system, so they might increasingly resort to rioting and other
forms of violence to make their voices heard, which ironically
contributes to more deterioration in the overall situation.”  Jobless Youth  The newly elected Islamist rulers in North Africa, saddled
with one of the world’s highest rates of youth unemployment, are
struggling to live up to the aspirations of those who brought
them to power.  Almost 17 percent of all Tunisians are unemployed, higher
than the level in 2010, according to International Monetary Fund
 data . Unrest that year led to the toppling of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. And while joblessness in  Morocco  has “steadily
declined over the past decade, youth unemployment remains very
high at about 18 percent,” the IMF said in a  report  last month.  In his bid to become Egypt’s first democratically elected
civilian president, Mursi pledged to lure investments and bring
joblessness to below 7 percent by 2016, according to his
platform. In  Tunisia , the Ennahdha party campaigned on a promise
to bring unemployment down to 8.5 percent by 2016.  Bumpy Transition  The promises fueled already high expectations spurred by
the revolts. In Egypt, a country where government jobs are seen
as the best path to steady work, many Arab Spring protesters
thought they’d see an explosion in employment.  After Egypt’s uprising, “I dreamed and my imagination led
me to believe that salaries will increase, that those who are
hungry will no longer be and that there will be social
justice,” said Manar Shoukre, 23, who participated in the 2011
protests that led to Mubarak’s fall. Instead, she was laid off
from a translation job shortly after that.  The bumpy transition to democracy eroded investor confidence
and stifled job creation in a region long plagued with
unemployment.  In Tunisia, an unidentified street vendor set himself
ablaze in March, more than two years after a similar act by
Mohamed Bouazizi triggered the so-called Arab Spring. “This is
what’s happening to a young man from Tunisia because of
unemployment,” the man, thought to be in his 20s, shouted
before immolating himself. He later died.  Selling Clothes  Hakim  Al Rajhi , 32, has a degree in law and humanities. To
make a living, the Sidi Bouzid resident works in shops selling
clothes or, occasionally, in construction. He’s been looking for
a job that fits his qualifications since 2007.  “We revolted against Ben Ali because of poor social
conditions but after the revolution it became worse,” he said
in a phone interview.  “I can’t get married” or meet his
“smallest need,” he said. “The government’s ignoring our
demands will lead us to one solution, which is a new
revolution.”  Tunisia’s economic growth slowed to 2.5 percent in the
first quarter this year, compared with 4.8 percent a year
earlier. The country’s sovereign debt has lost its investment-grade status at Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings.  The Egyptian  economy  is set to grow 2 percent this year,
close to the slowest pace since 1992, according to the IMF. Cuts
by the three ratings companies after the revolt pushed Egypt’s
credit rating deeper into junk.  “The management of the post-revolutionary economy has been
miserable,” former Finance Minister  Samir Radwan  said in a
telephone interview. “The public sector is still the main
provider of jobs.” He was appointed by Mubarak and continued to
serve in the transition government.  Muslim Brotherhood  Mursi’s first year in office has been dominated by
struggles with opposition groups, the military and the
judiciary. Critics such as Shoukre say the president, an
Islamist, is more focused on consolidating the power of the
Muslim Brotherhood, which pushed his candidacy, than on tackling
unemployment and other woes.  “Because the poor still have no place, we don’t want
you,” reads a  petition  that a group called Tamarud, or Rebel,
says millions have signed to withdraw confidence from Mursi.  Mursi’s supporters say strikes and protests undermine his
efforts to stabilize the country and the president has dismissed
talk of an early vote as “nonsense.”  Untrained Labor  “We have a real problem in Egypt because of unemployment,
as the  labor force  is untrained,” said Cabinet spokesman Alaa
el-Hadidi in an interview. He said the Ministry of Industry and
 Foreign Trade , for instance, announced 20,000 jobs but got just
13,000 applicants, about half of them unqualified.  The government has tried to calm the anger by pushing up
public-sector wages over past two years. The result: A  budget
deficit  projected at 11 percent to 11.5 percent this fiscal
year, according to Investment Minister Yehia Hamed. It also
converted hundreds of thousands of temporary government
contractors into bureaucrats.  “The government cannot turn a switch and create more
jobs,” said Ragui Assaad, a professor at the Humphrey School of
Public Affairs at the  University of Minnesota , by phone. He was
involved in an Egypt labor-market survey for the  Economic
Research Forum  with the government’s statistics agency. “In
fact if they do that, as they have tried to create more jobs in
the public sector, that has long-term negative consequences.”  Others are trying too.  Education for Employment , a
Washington-based nonprofit organization, offers training for
young graduates from low-income backgrounds in the Arab world.
It then seeks to find them jobs in industries such as retail,
hospitality and banking, according to Chief Executive Officer
Jamie McAuliffe.  Young People  “Since the Arab Spring there has been an increased focus
on getting young people into the work force,” McAuliffe, who is
also chairman of the  World Economic Forum’s Global Agenda
Council on Youth Unemployment , said in a phone interview. The
placement rate -- about 3,000 people found jobs in the  Middle
East  between 2006 and 2012 -- is almost 80 percent, he said.  Still, the planned June 30 protest is already heightening
investors’ concern. Thousands of Mursi supporters massed in
Cairo on June 21, with hardline clerics warning the president’s
detractors against attempting to overthrow him. The turmoil
prompted the military to say it might intervene to prevent the
country from descending into an uncontrollable conflict.  Egypt’s benchmark  EGX 30 stock index  has plunged more than
17 percent this year, while the country’s credit risk surged to
the highest level since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The government’s benchmark dollar bonds have also tumbled,
sending the yield to a record high of 9.55 percent on June 21.  Public Sector  With private  job creation  stalling, Shoukre says she’s
headed for the public sector. She says she left two other jobs
in the private sector, one after her boss’s husband pursued her
and the other after her paycheck was often delayed and the
owner’s son bossed her around.  Her attempt to seek  job security  in a bloated public sector
highlights the challenge officials such as Alaa Awad, adviser to
the minister of manpower and immigration, say they face. When
the government recently started a program to train people for
work, only about 173,000 applied from more than 3 million people
listed as job seekers in the database, he said.  “As soon as they find out that the jobs are for the
private sector, they say, ‘No, we want a government job, we’ll
wait for a bit longer,’” Awad said in an interview. “We are
trying to change this mentality but it won’t happen overnight.”  IMF Negotiations  While Tunisia signed a $1.74 billion agreement with the IMF
this month, Egypt has been struggling to secure a $4.8 billion
accord, which officials say is key to luring back investors.
Political bickering and unrest have made it harder for post-revolution governments to implement changes seen as unpopular.  Failure to improve the lot of the young may backfire, said
engineering graduate Kamel, who said he supported the Arab
Spring protests but didn’t take part.  “I got high grades in high school, studied hard at
university and served my country in the army,” he said. “How
come then that after all of this, my country says it has nothing
to offer me? If there’s no real solution, there will be chaos.
The people will take to the street and demand their rights.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  