-- Emerging Stocks Sink as Chinese Shares Enter Bear Market
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-06-24T21:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/emerging-stocks-fall-to-one-year-low-as-chinese-stocks-tumble.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped to
the lowest level in a year as  China ’s  CSI 300 (SHSZ300)  Index entered a
 bear market  after the central bank signaled it will keep efforts
to curb credit growth. Bond yields surged and currencies
weakened as Turkey’s lira slumped to a record low.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 1.9 percent to
883.34, extending a plunge from its Jan. 3 high to 18 percent.
The CSI 300 slid 6.3 percent, sinking 22 percent from this
year’s peak, while the Shanghai Composite Index capped the
biggest retreat since August 2009. Turkey’s  lira  weakened a
sixth consecutive day and Russia’s 2030 Eurobond yield jumped to
the highest level in 18 months. The premium investors demand to
own emerging-market debt over  U.S. Treasuries  climbed to an 11-month high, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Chinese stocks led losses in developing nations as the
People’s Bank of China said there’s a reasonable amount of
liquidity in the financial system and urged banks to control
risks from credit expansion and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said a
cash squeeze is hurting growth. China’s worst cash squeeze in at
least a decade may weigh on smaller banks’ financial strength as
their reliance on interbank funding leads to an erosion of loan
margins, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  “There’s a lot of information that came out about China
and whether the financial structure is as sound as we thought it
was,” Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of
assets at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama , said by
phone. “The summary of all the information pressures  emerging
markets .”  Biggest Losses  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell today
by at least 1 percent, led by commodity companies. The measure
of developing-nation stocks is trading at 9.2 times estimated
earnings, a one-year low according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Shares in the MSCI World Index of developed markets
are valued at 12.8 times projected profits.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund slid 2 percent to $36.65. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 13 percent to 38.  Brazil’s Ibovespa tumbled 2.3 percent, extending this
year’s decline to 25 percent, the most among major emerging
markets. Iron-ore producer Vale SA contributed the most to the
benchmark stock gauge’s decline.  Russian Shares  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid 0.7 percent as OAO Sberbank, Russia’s
biggest lender, fell to the lowest level since November 2012.
The yield on the nation’s Eurobonds due March 2030 rose 32 basis
points to 4.64 percent, the highest since December 2011.  Benchmark gauges in the Czech Republic,  South Africa ,
Thailand and the Philippines fell at least 2.4 percent. South
Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  to an 11-month low, while The Borsa Istanbul
Stock Exchange National 100 Index tumbled to the lowest level
since November 2012. Poland’s WIG20 Index rose 0.5 percent as
Eurocash SA surged.  The lira fell to its lowest level since at least 1981 as
Turkey’s central bank’s planned dollar sales failed to stem the
fallout from a signal to scale back U.S. stimulus. India’s rupee
fell, extending a seven-week slide, as global investors boosted
sales of local bonds and stocks.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (600016)  and Ping An Bank Co. plunged
10 percent, while a gauge of Chinese financial companies tumbled
7.6 percent for the biggest loss among industry groups. China
Vanke Co. led declines for developers with an 8.8 percent slump.
The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, which entered a  bear
market  earlier this month, lost 3.2 percent.  Extra Yield  The extra yield for emerging-market debt over U.S.
Treasuries rose 12 basis points to 362 basis points, according
to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  The only three emerging-market stock pickers who avoided
losing money for clients in the worst first-half rout since 1998
say now’s the time to buy Philippine retailers, Chinese Internet
companies and Indian drugmakers.  Lewis Kaufman, whose  Thornburg Developing World Fund (THDAX)  rose
3.2 percent, the most among U.S.-domiciled emerging-market
mutual funds overseeing at least $100 million, says Manila-based
 Puregold Price Club Inc. (PGOLD)  will benefit from 20 percent sales
growth. CNI Charter Emerging Markets Fund’s Anindya Chatterjee
boosted his position in Shenzhen, China-based  Tencent Holdings
Ltd. (700)  as first-quarter profit rose 37 percent.  David Semple  has
been buying Indian pharmaceutical shares for the Van Eck
Emerging Markets Fund as the rupee’s tumble boosts exports.  The managers say they weathered this year’s slide in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index by making prescient currency bets
and buying companies insulated from economic swings and
government interference.  “It’s been an environment where if you picked the right
spots, there’s been enough going right to offset the things that
are going wrong,” Kaufman, whose fund has about $728 million of
assets, said in a June 19 phone interview from  Santa Fe , New
Mexico. “And there are a lot of things going wrong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  