-- Henderson Agrees With TIAA-CREF to Form $20 Billion Venture
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-06-24T15:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/henderson-agrees-with-tiaa-cref-to-form-global-property-venture.html
Henderson Group Plc (HGG)  and TIAA-CREF,
the manager of investments for employees of nonprofit
institutions, agreed to combine their European and Asian real
estate businesses to form a venture with 13 billion pounds ($20
billion) of assets under management.  TIAA Henderson Global Real Estate will buy and manage
commercial and multifamily residential real estate, the
companies said in a statement today. In a related deal, New
York-based TIAA-CREF agreed to buy Henderson’s North American
property business.  “There are compelling growth opportunities in global real
estate,” Tom Garbutt, head of TIAA-CREF global real estate,
said in the statement. “This new venture will leverage TIAA-CREF’s financial strength and long-standing real estate
investment capabilities together with Henderson’s expertise and
wide array of real estate investments in Europe and Asia
Pacific.”  Asset managers including Henderson and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are
buying or merging property-advisory firms as their investors
seek to diversify beyond stock and bond funds. The resulting
increase in scale helps attract sellers of assets and gives them
an advantage over other bidders because they are more likely to
complete deals, Henderson Group Chief Executive Officer Andrew Formica said on a call with reporters today.  Investment Plan  The venture will invest $1.5 billion in cash from TIAA-CREF
“over the next few years” in real estate deals, Formica said.
The new company will also open a business in commercial real
estate debt, including co-investment from TIAA-CREF. It will
also look at investments outside of the real estate industry,
according to the statement.  London, the U.S. and  Australia  are among the best areas for
investment, Garbutt and the venture’s Chief Executive Officer
James Darkins said on the call.  “The U.S. market is still a very attractive market,”
Garbutt said. Investors buying there “see safety, they see
longevity, they see durability of returns.”  TIAA-CREF will own 60 percent of TIAA Henderson Global Real
Estate, while Henderson will own 40 percent. As part of the
agreement, Henderson will receive 114.2 million pounds in cash,
excluding deal costs, according to today’s statement.  Henderson was down 4.30 pence, or 3 percent, at the 4:30
p.m. close of trading in London, the lowest since Jan. 10. That
pared the gain for the past six months to 5.4 percent.  London Home  Garbutt will become chairman of the new company, which will
be based in  London . The transaction is expected to be completed
in the first quarter of 2014, according to the statement.  BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, agreed in May
to buy private-equity property investment advisory firm MGPA to
expand its real estate business in the Asia-Pacific region and
Europe. The price wasn’t disclosed.  TIAA-CREF had $520 billion of assets under management at
the end of March, the statement showed. Apart from real estate,
the company’s businesses include mutual-fund management, life
insurance and brokerage services, according to its website.  Henderson’s property business has about 12.7 billion pounds
of assets under management.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net  