-- Tenet to Buy Vanguard Health for $1.8 Billion in Cash
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-06-24T20:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/tenet-to-buy-vanguard-health-systems-for-about-1-8-billion.html
Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  agreed to buy
hospital operator  Vanguard Health Systems Inc. (VHS)  for about $1.8
billion in cash to grow in new markets as the U.S. health-care
overhaul promises to expand insurance coverage to more Americans
starting next year.  Tenet, the third-biggest publicly traded U.S. hospital
chain, will pay $21 a share, the companies said today in a
statement. That’s 70 percent above the $12.37 closing price on
June 21 for Nashville, Tennessee-based Vanguard Health. Tenet
also will assume $2.5 billion of debt, the companies said.  The acquisition will allow Tenet to accelerate cost-reduction efforts, a hallmark of health-care reform, Chief
Executive Officer Trevor Fetter said in an interview. Investors
should expect more acquisitions in the future, he said.  “It’s a great strategic opportunity and I’m excited about
it,” Fetter said. “It comes at a critical point in time on the
eve of the Affordable Care Act. I love the opportunity to double
revenue in  Texas .”  The purchase gives Dallas-based Tenet 28 hospitals in the
Chicago, Phoenix, Detroit, Boston and  San Antonio , Texas,
regions. When the sale closes, Tenet will operate 79 hospitals
and 157 outpatient centers, and gain $100 million to $200
million a year in savings, the company said.  “This was a surprise to most investors,” said Brian Tanquilut, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,
 Tennessee . “I don’t think the Vanguard asset was speculated on
as something that was for sale. People were so focused on Health
Management Associates,” the Naples, Florida-based hospital
operator that has been the subject of takeover speculation.  ‘Increases Scale’  “The synergies that Tenet is forecasting -- $100 to $200
million -- is a good number,” Tanquilut said in a telephone
interview. “At the end of the day, this is a positive for
Tenet. It’s an accretive deal off the bat. It increases their
scale, which is important in the new world of health care.”  The acquisition is expected to add to earnings in the first
year, the companies said. Tenet gained 4.5 percent to $43.73 at
the close in  New York . Vanguard rose 67 percent to $20.70,
reflecting Tenet’s offer.  President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act may extend
insurance over the next decade to about 27 million people who
are currently uninsured. The  Congressional Budget Office 
estimates that 8 million more people will enroll in Medicaid
programs next year because of the expansion, which raises the
income eligibility limits.  The acquisition will benefit Tenet because they and
Vanguard serve distinctly different markets, Fetter said today
in a conference call. The agreement has been in the works for
months, he said.  ‘Key Markets’  “We will have new opportunities to actively manage our
portfolio across a spectrum of assets” Fetter said. “We will
now be No. 1 or No. 2 in 19 key markets.”  The Vanguard acquisition would be the company’s biggest
since it bought American Medical Holdings for $3.35 billion in
1994. In 2011, Tenet rejected a $7.3 takeover bid from Community
Health Systems Inc.  The acquisition opens “an important new avenue of growth
among not-for-profit health systems where Vanguard has built a
tremendous reputation for being a creative strategic partner,”
Fetter said in the statement. “At this time of unprecedented
change in health care, we believe the combined company will be
well-positioned to lead the transformation.”  Blackstone Group  Blackstone Group LP, a 38 percent owner and Vanguard
Health’s  largest shareholder , will collect $617 million from the
sale. The New York private-equity firm purchased a majority
stake in 2004 in a leveraged recapitalization that valued
Vanguard at $1.25 billion, according to regulatory filings.  Including about $493 million it previously received from a
2011 dividend and 2010 share repurchase, Blackstone will reap a
return of about $1.1 billion. That’s about 2.2 times its
original $495 million equity investment.  Blackstone spokeswoman  Christine Anderson  declined to
comment.  In an interview in February, Tenet’s Fetter said he
expected the 2010 health-care law to spur more consolidation
among hospitals because of its push for better coordination and
cost controls. The law’s insurance exchanges open for
registration in October and start coverage in January.  “The pressures are pretty intense,” Fetter said then.  ‘Reasonably Priced’  Vanguard raised $450 million two years ago in an initial
public offering. The company had gained 1 percent this year,
 compared with  a 19 percent increase for the Russell 2000 Health
Care Index through June 21.  “The deal seems reasonably priced,” said John W. Ransom,
an analyst at Raymond James & Associates in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida , in an e-mail. “But investors will have concerns about
the exposure to the Detroit market and Vanguard’s anemic/erratic
historical results.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  has agreed to finance the
acquisition, which will probably close before the end of the
year, the companies said. Lazard Ltd. acted as lead financial
and strategic adviser to Tenet, which got legal advice from
Gibson Dunn & Crutcher. Bank of America, Barclays Plc and Teneo
Capital also advised Tenet.  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom served as Vanguard’s
legal counsel and JPMorgan Chase & Co. was financial and
strategic adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  