-- ENRC ‘Very Disappointed’ by Bid Valuing It at $4.7 Billion
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-06-24T16:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/enrc-can-t-recommend-very-disappointing-offer-from-founders.html
A  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) 
independent committee set up to assess offers said it can’t
recommend that shareholders accept a bid from the founders and
the Kazakh government that values ENRC at $4.7 billion.  “The Independent Committee is very disappointed by the
value of the offer, which it believes materially undervalues
ENRC, its fundamentals, the intrinsic value of its underlying
assets and its growth prospects,” Mohsen Khalil, the
committee’s head, said in a statement today.  The proposal by  Alexander Machkevitch , Patokh Chodiev and
Alijan Ibragimov to take the mining company private would pay
shareholders $2.65 in cash and 0.23 of  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  stock for
each ENRC share held, the newly created Eurasian Resources Group
BV said in a statement. It is equivalent to 234.3 pence a share
and values ENRC at 3.04 billion pounds, it said. Kazakhmys,
which owns 26 percent of ENRC, said it backs the bid.  The founders are seeking to take ENRC off the market five
years after selling shares in the company at 540 pence apiece in
a London initial public offering. Today’s offer is lower than a
May proposal of 260 pence a share that ENRC directors also said
was unacceptable, the committee said.  “The Independent Committee cannot recommend the offer to
relevant ENRC shareholders at the current level,” it said.  Ore, Power  ENRC mines iron ore, produces ferroalloys used in
steelmaking, generates power in  Kazakhstan  and extracts metals
in  Africa . The stock has dropped about 50 percent in the past
year amid allegations of corruption at its operations in
Kazakhstan and Africa.  Analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc. value the company’s Kazakh
business at more than $11 billion and its African unit at $1.8
billion. It had net debt of $5.5 billion as of March 31.  In the event that Kazakhmys shareholders give their consent
and the offer becomes unconditional, the committee would advise
ENRC shareholders on the consequences, it said.  Vladimir Kim, the former chairman of Kazakhmys, Chief
Executive Officer Oleg Novachuk and Executive Director Eduard Ogay gave their irrevocable support for the offer, Kazakhmys
said in a separate statement. They own a total of about 35
percent of Kazakhmys, data compiled by Bloomberg data shows.  Kazakhmys shareholders will vote on the bidding group’s
offer, which requires a simple majority to be accepted,
Kazakhstan’s largest copper producer said, without giving a date
for the ballot.  Better Terms  ENRC declined 1.4 percent to 213.8 pence at the close in
 London  while Kazakhmys slid 13 percent to 233.7 pence, the
biggest slump since May 2009.  “We believe the market may have been hoping for better
deal terms,” Ash Lazenby, a Liberum Capital Ltd. analyst, wrote
in a note. “Given Kazakhmys holds its ENRC stake at 3.75 pounds
a share on its book, completion of the deal would also result in
a write-down.”  Kazakhmys will receive $887 million and 77 million of its
own shares under the offer terms, it said in a separate
statement today. Kazakhmys’ free float will increase to about 58
percent from about 37 percent, it said.  “The board of Kazakhmys believes that the offer may
undervalue ENRC and its assets, but after seeking to engage with
the ENRC consortium and its constituent members, has concluded
that there is no prospect of obtaining improved terms,” it
said. The Kazakhmys board recommended its shareholders vote for
the offer to avoid the risk of a “further erosion in value.”  Kazakh Privatization  ENRC traces its roots to its founders’ participation in the
1990s privatizations of Kazakh state assets that were gradually
combined into a single group of companies and listed in London.  Mehmet Dalman, named chairman in 2012 to improve governance
and lead a reorganization following the corruption allegations,
resigned in April and was replaced by Gerhard Ammann, former
chief of Deloitte & Touche LLP’s Swiss practice.  The U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office said April 25 it began an
investigation into alleged fraud and bribery at London-based
ENRC operations, including in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  In 2010, ENRC took control of copper and cobalt mines in
Congo that Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler acquired from the
nation’s government following their seizure from  Canada ’s First
Quantum Minerals Ltd. Anti-corruption groups including  Global
Witness  criticized ENRC for acquiring the assets, saying Gertler
got them at low prices because of close ties to President  Joseph Kabila . Gertler denied buying them at below-market rates.  Cobalt Deposits  First Quantum sued ENRC, which settled in 2012 and agreed
to pay $1.25 billion for First Quantum’s share of the assets. In
May, the African Progress Panel said in a report that the DRC
lost out on about $1.4 billion in revenue by selling undervalued
copper and cobalt deposits now controlled by ENRC and  Glencore
Xstrata Plc. (GLEN)   The figure represents a “small share” of total losses as
state-owned companies under priced assets that they sold to
companies owned by Gertler from 2010 to 2012, according to the
panel led by former United Nations Secretary-General  Kofi Annan .  The founders are raising $1.6 billion to fund the cash
component of the buyout, and the government is offering its 26
percent stake in London-based Kazakhmys, people familiar with
the matter said last month, asking not to be identified because
the information wasn’t public.  ENRC shareholders who don’t tender their shares in the
offer will remain stockholders in a private company should the
deal succeed, because the founders plan to delist it from the
London Stock Exchange, according to the bidders’ statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  