-- Merkel Lays Down Marker on Euro-Area Discipline for Re-Election
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-06-24T14:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/merkel-lays-down-marker-on-euro-area-discipline-for-re-election.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she
will stand firm against pooling  Germany ’s debt with the rest of
the euro area and won’t raise taxes if voters elect her for
another four years in the fall.  Presenting her Christian Democratic Union bloc’s campaign
platform for the Sept. 22 election, Merkel said European Union
countries should agree on ways to boost competitiveness, not
“always look for the next pot” of aid money, and pledged to
increase Germany’s economic strength.  “The first thing is to figure out how all of us become
more competitive, how we can do our homework,” Merkel said in a
speech to national Christian Democratic leaders in Berlin today.
“We don’t just need more fiscal stability. We don’t just need
more oversight over the banks.”  Merkel is running for a third term on her handling of the
euro area’s debt crisis, which includes financial rescues for
five of 17 euro countries and a commitment to preventing the
joint currency’s breakup in return for austerity programs. The
127-page platform suggests more of the same if Germans re-elect
her as head of  Europe ’s biggest economy.  Merkel maintained her rejection of joint euro-area debt
issuance or pooling of existing debt, saying a government of the
opposition  Social Democrats  and Greens would raise business
taxes and put Germany on the hook for the euro area’s debt.  “That is the wrong way to go,” she said.  Poll Lead  While Merkel, 58, is the front-runner, polls suggest she
may not be able to extend her Christian Democratic bloc’s
alliance with the Free Democratic Party. The  Christian Democrats 
and their Christian Social Union Bavarian allies have 41 percent
and the FDP 4 percent, according to an Emnid poll of 2,755
people for Bild am Sonntag published yesterday. The opposition
Social Democrats have 25 percent and the Greens 14 percent,
meaning neither camp would have enough support to form a
government if elections were held now. No margin of error was
given.  The CDU platform says the euro is “indispensable” for
German exports and defending the currency requires  deficit
reduction  and balanced budgets across the EU. While backing
procedures to restructure European banks, it rejects EU-wide
 deposit insurance .  National executives of the CDU/CSU, approved the program at
a meeting in Berlin yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  