-- Erste Sells Shares to Repay State Aid as Earnings Fall
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-06-24T14:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/erste-to-sell-shares-to-repay-government-aid-as-profit-falls.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Austria ’s
biggest lender, will sell about 660 million euros ($865 million)
of new stock in the third quarter to help repay state aid. The
shares dropped as much as 9.6 percent in Vienna.  Erste, the third-largest bank in eastern  Europe , plans to
pay back 1.2 billion euros in Austrian  government aid  raised in
2009, as well as 559 million euros in capital linked to the
assistance, it said in a statement from Vienna today. The
capital increase amounts to about 8 percent of Erste’s market
value.  “It was always clear that they’d repay the aid, but that
they need a capital increase for that is not so great,” said
 Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux who
rates Erste shares hold. “It’s also slightly contradicting what
they’ve always told us.”  Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl has pledged to
bolster earnings this year, mostly by turning around the debt-ridden Romanian unit. Erste, trailing only  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
Austria’s  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in eastern Europe, is
struggling to balance declining lending revenue with cost cuts
and lower bad debt charges as central and eastern European
economies remain mired in slow growth.  Erste was the  second-worst performer  after  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  in
the  Bloomberg European 500 index (BE500)  of the continent’s biggest
companies. It fell as much as 9.6 percent, the most in 19
months, and was 7.6 percent lower at 20.28 euros by 3:43 p.m. in
Vienna, erasing more than half a billion euros from its market
value.  Earnings Drop  The repayment will save Erste 149 million euros in  dividend 
payments next year, after tax. Its core equity Tier 1 ratio, a
gauge of financial strength, will reach 10 percent under new
rules set by the Basel Committee for Banking Supervision by the
end of next year, Erste said. The rights offer will be managed
by JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and Erste.  Erste cut its earnings  outlook , saying it now expects pre-provision operating profit to decline 5 percent this year. It
had forecast “stable” profit, compared with last year’s 3.47
billion euros, at its annual general meeting in May. Revenue
will decline more than previously estimated, a drop that will be
“only partially offset by lower operating costs,” the bank
said.  “The economic situation in eastern Europe is simply not
turning upwards and as long as it isn’t, there’s also no loan
growth,” Kepler’s Becker said.  Estimate Changes  Erste owns the biggest banks in  Romania  and Slovakia, the
second biggest in  Hungary  and the  Czech Republic  and the No. 3
in  Croatia . In Romania, 30 percent of its loan book is non-performing, while in Hungary, 26 percent of lending is overdue.
Loan losses in those two countries are the biggest brake on
Erste’s profit recovery plans.  Provisions for bad debt will fall by as much as 15 percent
this year from 1.98 billion euros in 2012, Erste said in the
statement, narrowing the forecast range from a “double-digit”
percentage previously.  The share sale and profit decline mean this year’s earnings
per share will be 8 percent lower than estimated, said Matteo Ramenghi, an analyst at UBS AG who recommends buying the stock.
Earnings on that basis will rise 9 percent next year because the
bank will no longer have to pay dividends on the state aid,
Ramenghi said in a note to clients.  Aid Terms  In 2009, Erste received the 1.76 billion euros in non-voting capital it is now repaying. At the time, it sold 1.22
billion euros to the government and 540 million euros to private
investors. Private investors this year took over 19 million
euros from the state portion. Dividend payments for the capital
will rise to 8.5 percent next year from 8 percent currently and
are set to increase further thereafter.  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter said the repayment
is “more than good news” for Austrian taxpayers. The measure
frees up funds Fekter may need this year to underpin a “bad
bank” for nationalized Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG.  Erste joins Bawag PSK Bank AG, the lender owned by Cerberus
Capital Management and GoldenTree Asset Management, which will
repay 50 million euros this month of the 550 million euros in
state capital it received in 2009.  Raiffeisen received 1.75 billion euros of government
assistance, complemented by 750 million euros from private
investors, the same year. The lender has so far declined to say
when it plans to repay the funds and has said it won’t sell new
shares at the current level.  “Erste Group’s announcement will naturally drive some
focus on the position at Raiffeisen,” said Deutsche Bank AG
analyst Jason Napier in a note to clients. “The pressure to act
will, however, clearly have risen following Erste Group’s
planned capital increase.”  Raiffeisen dropped 3.2 percent to 23.12 euros by 3:49 p.m.
in Vienna, bringing its decline this year to 27 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  