-- Tesla Takeover Turns Tenuous Given Valuation: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-06-24T20:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/tesla-takeover-turns-tenuous-given-valuation-real-m-a.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , a long-speculated
takeover target, just removed a barrier to a deal by paying off
a U.S. government loan. The problem for would-be suitors is it’s
also become the world’s most expensive carmaker.  The loan had contained language limiting Tesla’s ability to
sell itself. A purchase probably still isn’t imminent because
Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk might not be willing to part
with Tesla and a buyer would have to pay top dollar for a 10-year-old company that just reported its first quarterly  profit .  The Palo Alto, California-based manufacturer trades for 816
times estimated 2013 earnings, the highest among automakers
valued at more than $5 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Should Tesla scale up vehicle sales, it may attract a
wide range of buyers such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which has $52 billion
in  cash  and has invested in car technology, according to Robert
W. Baird & Co. It may also lure conventional automakers, said
Steve Westly, an early investor in the $12 billion company.  “Tesla has developed an appealing and credible product
with game-changing technology,” Jim Press, the former deputy
CEO of Chrysler Group LLC, said in a telephone interview. “They
need to prove their success is sustainable for the long term and
that it is based on a solid financial foundation. If they do,
they should be an appealing takeover target.”  Possible Outcome  Tesla’s 2010 initial public offering at $17 a share was the
first IPO by an American car company since Ford Motor Co. in
1956. The stock  surged  194 percent to $99.55 this year through
last week, giving Tesla the third-biggest rally among U.S.
stocks valued at more than $5 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Today, the shares rose 2 percent to $101.49.  Musk, who is also Tesla’s chairman,  owns  a 24 percent
stake. A sale of the company is “one of the possible outcomes,
I suppose,” he said during an  interview  last month, while
adding that a deal isn’t expected soon.  “I’ve said from the very beginning, from the creation of
Tesla, that our goal is to create a compelling mass-market
car,” Musk said. “I would not consider stepping away from
Tesla until we’re there,” he added. “We’re several years away
obviously.”  Shanna Hendriks, a Tesla spokeswoman, declined to give
additional comment on June 21, and Musk didn’t reply to an e-mail sent at the end of last week.  Surging Sales  Through the end of 2012, Tesla delivered about 2,450
Roadsters, a $109,000 two-seat electric sports car. It also
began shipping its second vehicle last year, the Model S sedan
that costs at least $69,900, with a target of about 21,000
deliveries in 2013.  Company  revenue  totaled $413 million last year, and
analysts see that rising to $3.2 billion in 2015, according to
the average  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg. Tesla earned about
$11 million in January through March, its first  profitable 
quarter.  To boost the appeal of its vehicles, Tesla is expanding its
network of fast-charging stations, which will permit car owners
to drive between the east and west coasts of the U.S. Last week,
Musk demonstrated a battery-swapping system for the Model S
that’s faster than charging and ensures the car earns maximum
zero-emission vehicle credits in  California .  While most automakers larger than $5 billion trade at a
discount to revenue, Tesla’s stock price is more than 6 times
this year’s average sales estimate, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Its  price-earnings  ratio of 816 based on projected 2013
results is also the highest in the industry and compares with a
median of about 11, the data show.  Not Easy  “It’s not the easiest company to acquire, given the
current valuation,” Nancy Pfund, who helps oversee about $250
million as a San Francisco-based managing partner at DBL
Investors, said in a phone interview. Her firm was an early
investor in Tesla, and she drives a Model S.  An acquisition of Tesla “could be a possibility, but it’s
also a strong possibility that they stay independent for the
near future because they can,” Pfund said. Like Google and
Apple Inc., “it is that kind of an iconic company and iconic
stock in the making,” she said. “That makes the list of buyers
a little more rarefied.”  For potential suitors, Tesla just removed one takeover
obstacle by paying off the $452 million balance on a U.S. Energy
Department loan granted in 2009.  Unlocking Value  Repayment “opens up more flexibility for the company,”
Ben Kallo, a San Francisco-based analyst at Baird, said in a
phone interview. “There’s still a lot of value in the company
to unlock before they get to the point of selling, but I don’t
rule out an acquisition of Tesla down the road.”  Google, with $52 billion of  cash  and equivalents, is a
possible suitor given its interest in vehicle technology, Kallo
said. Self-driving cars are among projects stemming from
Google’s practice of letting employees develop ideas not tied to
online search and digital advertising, its main businesses.  “Google seems outlandish at first glance,” he said.
Nonetheless, Tesla would “fall into some of the initiatives
Google has under way.”  Sameet Sinha, a San Francisco-based analyst at B. Riley &
Co. who covers Google, said the company is probably more
interested in partnering with Tesla and other carmakers.  “To reach worldwide ubiquity, Google needs to license its
technology to every manufacturer that is out there,” Sinha said
in a phone interview. “I can’t see them purely tying up with
Tesla.”  Leslie Miller, a spokeswoman for Mountain View, California-based Google, declined to comment.  California’s Program  Tesla also may attract automotive companies that are in
need of regulatory credits to meet California’s Zero-Emissions
Vehicle program and tightening U.S. fuel-economy rules, said
Westly, managing partner of Westly Group Inc. in Menlo Park,
California, and the state’s former controller.  Daimler AG (DAI) , based in Stuttgart,  Germany , and  Japan ’s  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  are both  investors  in Tesla.  “The advantage that Tesla may offer, presuming they can
keep their mojo going, so to speak, is that they will provide
good vehicles that meet and exceed fuel-economy and emissions
requirements,” Alan Baum, principal of Baum & Associates, which
provides auto-industry analysis, said in a phone interview from
West Bloomfield,  Michigan . “That’s something that a lot of car
companies would benefit from, particularly those that are moving
more slowly on the fuel-economy or electric-vehicle side.”  Diverging Forecasts  Still, Tesla is probably too pricey for a carmaker to bid
on now, Baum said. Analysts are even in disagreement over the
company’s prospects. Their  estimates  for the price Tesla shares
will reach within the next 12 months range from $35 to $118,
 data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  On the other hand, investors are paring back bearish bets
on the stock. The percentage of Tesla shares sold short dropped
to a two-year low of 11 percent as of May 31, down from 25
percent in September, according to  data  compiled by Markit.  “As Tesla continues to differentiate themselves, their
technology advantage becomes more apparent,” Baird’s Kallo
said. For companies interested in electric vehicles, “instead
of going out and trying to build this technology in-house, Tesla
could become a takeout.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  