-- ETF Tracking Errors in Rout Shows Access Comes With Risks
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-06-24T01:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/etf-tracking-errors-in-rout-shows-access-comes-with-risks.html
Investors lured to exotic assets by
the convenient access that exchange-traded funds provide were
reminded last week that they can’t dodge the volatility or
illiquidity of those markets.  Dozens of ETFs, mainly those tracking emerging-market
stocks, sold at big discounts to their underlying holdings as
investors fled developing nations. The $468 million  iShares MSCI
Indonesia Investable Market Index Fund , run by New York-based
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , traded 7 percent below the value of its holdings
on June 20, the largest discount among U.S.-traded ETFs with at
least $100 million in assets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  There was nothing wrong with the ETFs. Rather, the
discounts -- during U.S. trading hours while exchanges hosting
many emerging-market stocks were closed -- reflected
expectations among market makers for continued price declines.
The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index dropped 5.6 percent last week,
the worst slump in 13 months, after U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 that the central bank’s
bond buying may be trimmed this year.  “ETFs are going to forecast expected moves overnight for
those markets,” said Reginald Browne, head of  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG) ’s ETF trading desk in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  ETFs trade like stocks on an exchange and hold baskets of
securities, typically replicating an index. They offer an easy
way to buy and sell a diversified selection of stocks, bonds or
other assets, often providing access to markets that are
difficult for smaller investors to use.  ‘Questionable Liquidity’  Investors shouldn’t think an ETF’s listing on a U.S. stock
market will shield them from turmoil or lack of liquidity in a
fund’s underlying market, David Nadig, director of research at
San Francisco-based research firm IndexUniverse LLC, said in an
interview. Lack of liquidity, either because an overseas
exchange is closed or a result of certain securities trading
infrequently, can put stress on the pricing of ETFs relative to
asset values, leading to an expanded tracking error.  “In times of market turmoil, you see stress on the
creation-redemption process,” Nadig said, referring to the way
the funds issue or redeem shares. “As soon as you see
uncertainty, you’ll start to see things spread out in ETFs that
have questionable liquidity to start with.”  Amid heavy selling by investors on June 20,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
stopped acting as an agent for clients wanting to redeem large
bundles of shares directly with ETFs.  Citigroup’s Limits  Citigroup has limits “on the amount of ETF redemption
business we can do on a nightly basis,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the New York-based bank, said in an
e-mailed statement. “Given recent increases in volume, we hit
those limits.”  “At no point did Citi discontinue its market-making
activities in ETF products,” Scott Helfman, a spokesman, said
in a separate e-mail, referring to the role of quoting prices to
buyers and sellers of ETF shares to facilitate transactions.  Other firms, including Knight, continued taking redemption
orders. “It was a very robust day,” Browne said.  Discounts in several emerging-market funds decreased by the
end of the week as some indexes rebounded or stabilized. The
iShares Indonesia ETF closed the week with a premium of 1.2
percent after its shares rose 3 percent.  Large discounts also struck ETFs tracking the U.S.
municipal-bond market, where Bernanke’s comments spurred selling
as well.  Municipal Bonds  The  $3.5 billion  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Municipal
Bond Fund, known by its ticker symbol MUB, reached its deepest
discount in more than two years. Its price dropped to  $102.29 (MUB) 
last week, the lowest since May 2011, and the fund’s 2.9 percent
discount was the steepest since December 2010.  “The move down in price has been so fast that the net
asset values haven’t yet been able to catch up with it,” Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors, said in a telephone interview.  As yields on municipal debt increase, MUB has been selling
at a discount to its underlying assets for 18 trading sessions,
the longest stretch in more than two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The $216 million  SPDR Nuveen S&P High Yield Municipal Bond
Fund (HYMB)  saw its discount reach 4.8 percent on June 20, a 52-week
high. The gap ballooned after  State Street Corp. (STT) , the fund’s
sponsor, stopped allowing market makers to redeem shares for
cash.  State Street  ETFs are obliged to redeem large bundles of shares for
baskets of their underlying securities, leaving the withdrawing
investor, or its agent, to sell the securities for cash. State
Street often offers the redemption in cash for an extra fee, Tim
Coyne, the Boston-based firm’s global head of ETF capital
markets, said in an interview.  State Street stopped giving market agents that flexibility
because deteriorating conditions in the municipal-bond market
made trading more costly than the fee the fund could charge for
the service, he said.  “We did not stop redemptions,” Coyne said. “The funds
actually performed very well and exactly as designed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  