-- Ethanol’s Discount to Gasoline Narrows on Below-Average Stocks
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-06-24T21:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/ethanol-s-discount-to-gasoline-narrows-on-below-average-stocks.html
Ethanol’s discount to gasoline
tightened to the narrowest in more than two weeks on below-average inventories for this time of year.  The spread, or price difference, contracted 0.11 cent to
29.66 cents a gallon, the least since June 5, as  stockpiles  of
the fuel have remained near record-low seasonal levels
throughout this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Inventories were down 22 percent in the week ended June 14 from
a year earlier, Energy Information Administration data show.  “There’s good support in the market,” said  Shawn McCambridge , senior grain analyst at Jefferies Bache LLC in
Chicago. “Stocks have stayed steady around these lower levels
and that’s giving support.”  Denatured ethanol for July delivery slipped 2.3 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $2.441 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Prices are up 11 percent this year.  Gasoline for July delivery sank 2.41 cents, or 0.9 percent,
to $2.7376 a gallon on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The
contract covers reformulated gasoline, made to be blended with
ethanol before delivery to filling stations.  McCambridge said ethanol prices were buoyed by a U.S.
Supreme Court decision today that left intact Environmental
Protection Agency rules allowing higher concentrations of corn-based ethanol in gasoline, turning away appeals from the
grocery, auto and oil industries.  “That may have given us a little psychological support,”
McCambridge said. “It’s giving confirmation, just saying that’s
not something we’ll have to worry about hanging over the
market.”  EPA Rule  The EPA in 2011 approved blends of as much as 15 percent of
ethanol in gasoline, a formula known as E15, for cars made for
the model year 2001 and later.  “Now that the final word has been issued, I hope that oil
companies will begin to work with biofuel producers to help
bring new blends into the marketplace that allow for consumer
choice and savings,” said Tom Buis, chief executive officer of
Growth Energy, a renewable fuels trade group.  Ethanol-blended gasoline made up about 94 percent of the
total U.S. gasoline pool in the week ended June 14, data from
the Energy Department’s analytical arm show.  Corn for July delivery decreased 8.5 cents to $6.5325 a
bushel in  Chicago . The corn crush spread, or the cost difference
between a gallon of ethanol and the corn needed to make it, was
6 cents, up 1 cent from June 21, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Ethanol Mandate  A 2007 energy law requires the U.S. to use 13.8 billion
gallons of ethanol this year. The EPA tracks compliance using
Renewable Identification Numbers, or RINs, serial numbers
attached to each gallon of biofuel. Refiners can keep the
credits for submission or trade them.  Corn-based ethanol RINs  fell 2 cents to 93 cents, while
 advanced RINs , which cover biodiesel or Brazilian sugarcane-based fuel, were unchanged at $1.03, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Production of the biofuel has been below average levels
throughout this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Output fell for two consecutive weeks to 873,000 barrels a
day in the week ended June 14, down 3 percent from a year
earlier and the first back-to-back weekly decline since March,
EIA data show.  Higher prices for the fuel have attracted  imports . Foreign
purchases of ethanol reached 65,000 barrels a day in the week
ended June 14, EIA data show, the highest since January.  Anhydrous ethanol in Sao Paulo cost $2.29 a gallon as of
June 14, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  