-- Methane in Water Seen Sixfold Higher Near Fracking Sites
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-06-24T15:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/methane-in-water-seen-sixfold-higher-near-fracking-sites.html
Water wells close to gas-drilling
sites in  Pennsylvania  had methane levels more than six times
higher than more distant wells, evidence that the boost in
production is causing leaks, Duke University researchers found.  The chemical fingerprint of the methane, the key component
of natural gas, along with the presence of ethane and propane,
indicate that much of the gas is from deep underground, such as
the Marcellus Shale, according to a study released today.
Production in the Marcellus is booming through hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, to break up rock and free trapped gas.  “Distance to gas wells was, by far, the most significant
factor influencing gases in the drinking water we sampled,”
said Rob Jackson, an  environmental sciences professor  at Duke in
Durham,  North Carolina , and the study’s lead author. The
evidence “all suggest that drilling has affected some
homeowners’ water.”  The peer-reviewed study, released in the Proceedings of the
 National Academy of Sciences , is a follow-up and extension of a
2011 study by Jackson and his co-authors, which drew  criticism 
from the drilling industry. That study tested drinking water
supplies in northeastern Pennsylvania including the town of
Dimock, where the state said gas wells failed and leaked. It
 found  no evidence of the chemicals used in fracking in water
wells; it did link drilling to elevated methane leaks.  Cabot’s Study  Industry scientists and advocates challenged the results,
arguing that the methane appeared to come from more shallow
sources, and might be the result of longstanding, natural
migration pathways. Scientists affiliated with  Cabot Oil & Gas
Corp. (COG)  released research last month from analysis of 1,701 wells
in Susquehanna County, in northeastern Pennsylvania, and found
no connection between drilling activities and methane levels.
Cabot is a gas driller in the region.  “Methane is common in Susquehanna county water wells and
is best correlated with topography and groundwater geochemistry,
rather than shale-gas extraction activities,” according to the
peer-reviewed study published in the journal Groundwater.  Methane can escape from the water at levels detected in
some of the wells, and is explosive. Some of the levels found
near drilling operations exceed state and federal standards, the
Duke study showed.  Fracking Surge  Gas production in Pennsylvania surged in the past few years
as companies expanded their use of fracking, in which water,
chemicals and sand are shot underground to break apart the rock
and free the gas. The Marcellus Shale is about 5,000 feet
underground in Pennsylvania, separated by thick rock layers from
water aquifers, which are at most a few hundred feet beneath the
surface.  Still, a surge in fracking has been accompanied by a
complaints from many homeowners who say their water has been
contaminated, resulting in sick children, dead livestock and
flammable tap water. Industry groups representing companies such
as Cabot say evidence has failed to establish a case of water
contamination from fracking. The Duke study doesn’t link the
methane found in the water wells to fracking, and instead,
Jackson said that faulty drilling procedures could allow some
gas to escape from wells and into the aquifer, or free shallower
pockets of gas during drilling itself.  “It doesn’t have to be a fracking problem,” Jackson said
in an interview. “First and foremost, we think it’s an issue of
well integrity.”  141 Wells  Jackson and his colleagues sampled 141 different wells in
northeastern Pennsylvania. They found the presence of methane in
some levels in 82 percent of the wells. However, the
concentration of the gas in wells within one kilometer (0.6
miles) of drilling operations was six times greater. The
scientists also looked for ethane and propane in the wells,
which indicate gas that has come from older, deeper formations.
Ethane presence was 23 times greater near gas wells, and propane
was only present in 10 wells near drilling sites.  The researchers also looked at the isotopic signature of
the gas, and found it to be either intermediate level or deeper
Marcellus style, the paper said. “Not all cases of
contamination are coming from the Marcellus,” Jackson said.  The Duke results for Pennsylvania contrast with findings by
some of the same researchers from  Arkansas , in which they found
no evidence of groundwater contamination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  