-- Metro AG Stock Drops as Citigroup Predicts Russian Risk
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-06-24T15:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/metro-ag-stock-drops-as-citigroup-predicts-russian-risk.html
Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest
retailer, fell the most in more than three months in  Frankfurt 
after Citigroup Inc. recommended selling the stock as Russia’s
economic growth slows and its currency declines.  Metro  slumped  as much as 6.8 percent to 23.21 euros, the
steepest intraday decline since March 4, and was trading down
4.9 percent at 5:03 p.m. Volume exceeded the three-month daily
average by 63 percent. Russian business generated about 25
percent of Metro’s operating cash flow last year, Alastair Johnston and Pradeep Pratti, London-based analysts at Citigroup,
wrote in a report today.  The central bank started buying rubles on May 29 to slow
its slide. Bank Rossii, which reports currency intervention data
with a delay and steps up interventions if the ruble weakens
beyond certain levels, spent the equivalent of 6.17 billion
rubles ($187 million) of foreign currency on June 18. The IMF
cut its economic growth forecast for  Russia  on June 18,
predicting gross domestic product will expand 2.5 percent this
year and 3.25 percent in 2014.  “The focus should be on the implications of the declining
ruble and weakening growth in this region and indeed the rest of
Metro’s emerging-market operations,” Johnston and Pratti wrote.
“The shares have barely begun to factor this.”  Sales in Russia rose “steeply” at the company’s wholesale
Cash & Carry unit in the first quarter, Dusseldorf-based Metro
said last month. The retailer plans to invest $750 million in
five years in the country, adding outlets, while acquisitions in
the market aren’t a priority, Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch
said earlier this month.  Reorganization Costs  The Citigroup analysts, who cut their recommendation on the
retailer to sell from neutral, also said they view
reorganization charges “as likely to recur as stores are closed
and staff shed.” Asset sales “should not be considered a
sustainable source of earnings, either,” they said.  Koch said when he took the CEO post at the beginning of
2012 that he would focus on Cash & Carry and the Media-Saturn
electronics chain while cutting investment in Kaufhof department
stores and Real grocery outlets.  Since then, he has agreed to  sell  Real stores in eastern
 Europe  to Groupe Auchan SA, sold the Makro U.K. wholesale unit
to Booker Group Plc and announced Media-Saturn is leaving  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in London via 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Jarvis  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net  