-- Ex-Hong Kong Development Minister Convicted of Fraud
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-06-24T09:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/ex-hong-kong-development-minister-convicted-of-housing-fraud.html
Hong Kong ’s former secretary for
development Mak Chai-kwong was convicted of defrauding the
government over more than HK$700,000 ($90,233) of housing
allowances during the 1980s.  Mak and another former official knew they weren’t eligible
for the allowance, District Court Judge Johnny Chan said in
delivering his verdict today. They tried “to get the government
to pay for their investment,” Chan said.  Mak was arrested last year by the  Independent Commission
Against Corruption  just days after Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying was sworn in on July 1. Leung’s popularity is near a record
low as investigations continue against other former officials
including the former head of the anti-graft agency.  Chan set Aug. 8 for the sentencing of Mak, 63, and former
assistant director of the highway department Tsang King-man, 58.
The two men and their lawyers didn’t speak to reporters after
the verdict was announced today.  Both men were granted cash bail of HK$50,000, the ICAC said
in a statement.  Mak and Tsang concealed that they had an interest in 
apartments that they leased from each other’s wives in order to
claim allowances between 1985 and 1990, according to the ICAC.  Lawyers for the two men had argued that the rules on leased
properties weren’t clearly defined until 1989 and cross-leasing
was a common practice, according to The  South China Morning
Post .  Public Opinion  The prosecution told the court that the men had no
explanation for not renting each other’s apartments in their
own names, and no reason for providing inaccurate addresses
for their wives, the Post reported.  Leung’s support rating was 46.7 on a scale of 0 to 100,
according to survey of 1,012 people conducted June 3-5 by the
University of Hong Kong’s  Public Opinion  Program, just above a
low of 46 in late September after protests against government
education and other policies.  In November, Franklin Lam, another member of Leung’s
Executive Council took a leave of absence after media reports
that he sold two apartments before Leung imposed measures to
curb  home prices .  Another cabinet member  Barry Cheung  last month resigned
from all public positions after the police began an
investigation into the Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange Ltd. that
he founded and headed.  The case is Hong Kong Special Administrative Region v. Mak
Chai-kwong and Tsang King-man, DCCC956/2012 in the Hong Kong
District Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  