-- Exchanges Agree to Add Smaller Trades to U.S. Stock Volume Count
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-06-24T17:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/exchanges-agree-to-add-smaller-trades-to-u-s-stock-volume-count.html
Stock trades of fewer than 100
shares that have traditionally been excluded from U.S. share
 volume  tallies are poised to be added to the count.  The New York Stock Exchange, the  Nasdaq  Stock Market and
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Inc. agreed on a
plan to add odd lots to official records of daily trading in
individual stocks and the overall market, Colin Clark, NYSE
Euronext senior vice president and representative to the CTA
Operating Committee, said in an e-mailed message.  “Consolidated tape participants approved adding odd lots
to the trade feed, and work is currently under way on
implementing the details,” Clark said. Wayne Lee, a Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. spokesman, declined to comment. Finra spokeswoman
Nancy Condon declined to comment.  Rising share  prices  and the spread of computer strategies
have reduced the size of stock trades. The average transaction
for a company in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has shrunk to
fewer than 200 shares from about 800 a decade ago, according to
data from Credit Suisse Group AG.  Adding odd lots to daily reports from the  NYSE (NYX)  and Nasdaq
will provide a clearer picture of the U.S. stock market,
according to Maureen O’Hara, a finance professor at Cornell
University who has studied the issue. The data will only be used
for volume and will not be included in price information.  “The reality of odd lots is that they’re not odd anymore,
and that’s the problem,” O’Hara said in a June 20 telephone
interview. “They’re numerous. The numbers have pushed
regulators and exchanges to recognize what everybody already
knows.”  Higher Volumes  While putting smaller trades in the official count will
raise the daily volume, it won’t come close to pushing tallies
back toward levels of several years ago. In the second half of
2008, about 10 billion shares were traded each day on all U.S.
exchanges. In the first half of this year, the figure was about
6.4 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cornell’s O’Hara, together with Chen Yao and Mao Ye of the
University of  Illinois , published a paper in 2011 which
estimated that excluding odd lots meant 4 percent of stock
trading volume was omitted. After updating their data ahead of
publication in a forthcoming issue of the Journal of Finance,
the authors say that figure is 4.9 percent.  The new data covered 120 Nasdaq-listed stocks from Jan. 1,
2011, through the end of November that same year. The research
found that nearly 53 percent of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  trades were for
fewer than 100 shares, making up 23 percent of Google’s trading
volume over the period. Roughly 38 percent of Apple Inc. trades
were odd lots, according to the updated paper.  O’Hara said that on average about 24 percent of a stock’s
trades fell below the 100-share threshold.  New Strategies  Higher prices for individual stocks are one reason odd lots
have increased. Stock splits have diminished in recent years and
that, combined with a rising market, has sent the average share
price for S&P 500 companies to about $65, from $35 a decade ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Google shares are
trading for $865 each, while Apple stock is at about $400.  Odd-lot trading has increased partly because buying 100-share blocks of shares such as Google and Apple is too expensive
for many individuals, and partly because of the rise of
algorithmic trading, O’Hara said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  