-- Fed’s Fisher Says He Backs Tapering QE as Economy Improves
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-06-24T18:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/fed-s-fisher-says-he-backs-tapering-qe-with-economic-improvement.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher , who doesn’t vote on monetary policy
this year, said he favors scaling back the Fed’s monthly bond-buying if the economy makes the kind of progress officials are
currently expecting.  “I agree fully with the chairman that we should dial back
on the stimulus” should “we achieve what the 19 of us
forecast,” Fisher said today in a speech in  London . The central
bank is currently purchasing $85 billion in bonds every month.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week said the Fed may start
slowing the pace of its bond-buying program later this year and
end it entirely around mid-2014 if the economy gets on a path of
sustainable growth. Fisher has been among the most vocal critics
within the Fed of the central bank’s unprecedented measures to
bolster the economy.  Investors shouldn’t overreact to the central bank’s plans
to reduce the pace of asset purchases, Fisher said in an
interview with the Financial Times published today on its web
site. Investors behaved like “feral hogs” after the June 19
comments by Bernanke, he said, according to the newspaper.  U.S. stocks retreated, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to a nine-week low, as Chinese equities entered a  bear
market  amid concern a cash crunch will hurt the world’s second-largest economy and speculation increased that the U.S. will
begin curbing stimulus.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.5 percent to
1,584.25 at 2:48 p.m. in  New York  today. The index is down 2.7
percent since June 19.  Policy makers last week raised their growth forecasts for
next year to a range of 3 percent to 3.5 percent and reduced
their outlook for unemployment to as low as 6.5 percent.  “I’ve not been a fan of this program,” Fisher said today.
The economy will need more incentives from fiscal policy makers
to reach the point of full employment, he added.  “What I wish to see is a marriage of prudent monetary
policy with prudent fiscal policy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net 
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  