-- Fed Official Says U.S. Banks Should Aid Student-Loan Borrowers
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-06-24T21:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/fed-official-says-u-s-banks-should-aid-student-loan-borrowers.html
U.S. banks should reduce  default
risk  by helping borrowers challenged by repayment of private
student loans to come up with alternative payment plans, a
Federal Reserve official said.  Making changes to such plans is usually in the interest of
both bank and borrower, leading to “better loan performance,
increased recoveries, and reduced credit risk,” Todd Vermilyea,
a senior associate director in the Fed’s Division of Banking
Supervision and Regulation, said in testimony prepared for
delivery tomorrow to the Senate Banking Committee.  “Federal Reserve examiners will not criticize institutions
that engage in prudent loan modifications, but rather will view
such modifications as a positive action when they mitigate
credit risk,” Vermilyea said in remarks for a hearing on
private student loan regulation. “Our goal is to make sure that
lenders work with borrowers having temporary difficulties.”  Lawmakers and regulators are increasing scrutiny of the
$1.2 trillion in outstanding student debt.  Amid declining post-recession household wealth, total borrowing has climbed as the
cost of higher education and total enrollment rise. About 21
percent of  student loans  in repayment are delinquent at least
three months, compared with a 6.3 percent delinquency rate in
2004, according to Vermilyea.  Federal loans account for about 85 percent of the total
student debt, Vermilyea said. Officials from the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency and  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  also are
scheduled to testify tomorrow.  Sustainable Repayment  The Fed encourages lenders to create “sustainable
repayment plans while also preserving the safety and soundness
of the lending institutions,” Vermilyea said.  Unmanageable student debt may have a broader impact on the
economy and society, according to written testimony prepared by
Rohit Chopra, student loan ombudsman with the CFPB. Among 28,000
responses from borrowers and experts sent to the CFPB about
student loans, writers discussed challenges for homeownership,
business starts and retirement.  The share of 25-year-olds with student debt increased to 43
percent last year from 25 percent in 2003. The average
education-loan balance among that age group grew by 91 percent
over the period, to $20,326 from $10,649, according to the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  Borrowers challenged by federal student loan repayment may
qualify for modification through programs such as income-based
repayment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  at 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  