-- Federer Wins Opening Match at Wimbledon as Sharapova Moves On
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-06-24T16:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/fifth-seed-errani-upset-by-puig-in-opening-round-of-wimbledon.html
Defending champion  Roger Federer ,
going for a record eighth Wimbledon men’s title, opened his
grass-court tennis tournament with a straight-set victory.
Second seed Victoria Azarenka and 2004 winner  Maria Sharapova 
also moved to the second round.  Federer, 31, beat Victor Hanescu of Romania 6-3, 6-2, 6-0.
Last year, the Swiss tied the record of seven titles held by
 William Renshaw  and  Pete Sampras  by defeating Britain’s  Andy
Murray  in the final.  “I enjoyed myself,” Federer said. “I’m happy: it was a
great first round for me. I don’t know how much better I could
have played. It was cold, and winning the first round always
relieves the pressure a bit.”  Today’s the first day of the year’s third grand slam tennis
tournament, with second seed Murray meeting Germany’s Benjamin
Becker, and Spain’s  Rafael Nadal , the fifth seed, playing
Belgium’s Steve Darcis.  Second-seeded  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus overcame a knee
injury to defeat Portugal’s Maria Joao Koehler 6-1, 6-2.
Azarenka slipped on the court while ahead 1-0 in the second set
and needed treatment on the side of the court. Struggling to
plant and push off with her left leg, Azarenka grimaced when she
hit shots.  “It was such a shock, I slipped, I don’t know what
happened out there,” Azarenka said. “It was very emotional, I
couldn’t believe what happened.”  Sharapova Wins  Sharapova, the third seed from Russia, beat Kristina
Mladenovic of France 7-6 (7-5), 6-3.  “The first match is always difficult on the grass and my
opponent played really well,” Sharapova said. “she has a big
game and a big serve as well.”  Women’s fifth seed Sara Errani was upset by Monica Puig of
Puerto Rico. Puig, a 19-year-old playing in her first Wimbledon,
beat the 2012  French Open  runnerup 6-3, 6-2 on court 18 this
morning, winning her seventh match point. It was the first time
the women have met.  Errani, ranked fifth by the women’s WTA tour, pulled out of
the grass-court warmup event in Eastbourne with a right adductor
strain. The Italian’s best results at Wimbledon were third-round
losses in 2010 and last year.  Adjustments  “I’m trying to adjust my game a little bit,” said Puig,
who made the third round of the French Open. She’d started “not
being afraid to close out matches, which was my problem at the
beginning of the year.”  Former women’s No. 1 Ana Ivanovic, the 12th seed from
Serbia, defeated qualifier Virginie Razzano of France 7-6 (7-1),
6-0. Italy’s Flavia Pennetta beat Britain’s Elena Baltacha 6-4,
6-1.  In the men’s competition,  Marin Cilic , the 10th seed from
Croatia, beat  Marcos Baghdatis  of Cyprus 6-3, 6-4, 6-4.  Lukas Rosol of the Czech Republic, who upset Nadal at
Wimbledon last year, lost his opening-round match to Germany’s
Julian Reister in five sets. American John Isner defeated Evgeny
Donskoy of Russia 6-1, 7-6 (7-5), 7-6 (7-3), while Mikhail
Youzhny, a Russian seeded 20th, beat Robin Haase of the
Netherlands 6-4, 7-5, 7-5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Danielle Rossingh at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net  