-- Ford Joins UAW in Health Program for Highest-Need Workers
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-06-24T18:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/ford-uaw-partner-on-health-care-for-highest-need-workers.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the No. 2 U.S.
automaker, and the United Auto Workers union are starting a
pilot health care program for workers and retirees with chronic
medical conditions, in a move they said could reduce costs.  The program will begin in Southeast  Michigan  with as many
as 1,500 voluntary participants, representatives for Ford, the
UAW and the union’s retiree health care trust told reporters
today at the company’s headquarters in Dearborn, Michigan. The
pilot, which will target chronic conditions such as diabetes and
asthma, will be funded by Ford and the union trust.  The pilot put together by Ford and the Detroit-based UAW
and union trust originates from the four-year contract struck
between the automaker and union in 2011, and emulates a similar
program used by  Boeing Co. (BA)  Workers and retirees will be invited
to the program by their doctor and will be assigned a personal
care nurse at no additional cost to the patient.  “The goal of this from day one was, ‘How do we keep our
employees healthier?’” Marty Mulloy, Ford’s vice president of
labor affairs, told reporters. “As an outcome of that, if you
have less significant medical events occurring, you’re going to
be using less services, and that results in less costs.”  Health care is the largest benefit cost paid by Ford,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, according to the
Center for Automotive Research. Ford estimates that the cost of
providing health care to its U.S. hourly workers equates to
about $7 an hour, Mulloy told reporters.  Entry Workers  The research center, based in Ann Arbor, Michigan,
estimates that the U.S. automakers will pay $5.20 an hour toward
health care per entry level worker by 2015, from $3.82 an hour
in 2011, according to a  November 2011  presentation. That’s
expected to drive up the cost of wages and benefits for entry
level workers to $39.95 in 2015, from $33.70 in 2011, the center
said.  Costs related to treating five of the most common chronic
care conditions for its workers are responsible for 61 percent
of Ford’s health care spending, according to the company. Those
conditions, which are comprised of congestive heart failure,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coronary artery disease,
diabetes and asthma, account for a similar share of costs for
health care provided by the retiree trust.  Boeing’s program achieved a 20 percent annual savings per
enrolled worker compared with a control group, mainly by
reducing emergency room visits and hospital admissions,
according to a 2011  company presentation . Ford Chief Executive
Officer Alan Mulally joined the company from Boeing in 2006.  Detroit Three  The UAW is open to starting a similar program with GM and
Chrysler, said Susanne Mitchell,  director  of the union’s Social
Security department.  “There is interest and support” from GM and Chrysler, she
told reporters. “It has not moved as far along as the Ford
plan, obviously, because this one’s kicking off, but the door is
certainly not closed at either of the other automakers.”  If the pilot is successful, Ford, the UAW and the retiree
trust could decide to introduce a similar program in other areas
of the country where the automaker has many active employees and
retirees, Mulloy said. Such areas would include  Louisville ,
 Kentucky , or  Kansas City , Missouri, where Ford has vehicle-assembly plants that opened in the 1950s.  Ford and the UAW have about 18,000 active hourly employees
in Michigan and the union trust has about 118,000 non-Medicare
retired members, according to a company statement. The union
trusts for Ford, GM and Chrysler are the largest non-government
provider of retiree health care benefits in the U.S., with about
$4.5 billion spent annually.  Highest Need  “We believe the added support in this voluntary program
will be of great benefit to our highest-need members,”  Jimmy Settles , vice president of the UAW’s Ford department, said in a
statement.  The cost of the pilot program, which wasn’t specified, will
include paying for 12 personal care nurses who will each be
limited to as many as 125 cases. The care provided by those
nurses will be covered as part of benefits already provided.  The Ford-UAW pilot precedes the start of major provisions
of the Affordable Care Act taking effect next year. The 2010 law
also includes a 40 percent tax on employee benefits exceeding
$10,200 for individuals and $27,500 for families starting in
2018, on the theory that overly generous plans boost medical
costs. Some companies have responded by adding wellness programs
and raising deductibles on workers.  Labor Agreement  Ford said after its four-year deal with the UAW was
ratified in 2011 that the agreement would increase its labor
costs less than 1 percent annually while allowing the company to
offset that rise with efficiency gains. That helped trigger
 upgrades  to investment-grade credit ratings and for the carmaker
to resume paying a dividend.  Ford has estimated that its labor costs will come down as
the company hires thousands of new workers to boost production
as the U.S. auto market rebounds. Under the contract, new
workers started at an entry-level wage of $15.78 an hour, rather
than the roughly $28 an hour senior employees make. The entry-level wage will rise to $19.28 by 2015.  Moody’s Investors Service raised Ford to investment grade
in May 2012 after Fitch Ratings lifted the company to the status
one month earlier. Standard & Poor Ratings Services ranks Ford’s
debt BB+, the highest level of speculative grade, with a
 positive outlook . Ford began paying a quarterly dividend of 5
cents a share in March of last year and said in January that it
would double the payout.  Ford fell 1.9 percent to $14.71 at 2:15 p.m.  New York  time.
The shares climbed 16 percent this year through June 21,
exceeding the 12 percent rise for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  