-- Freeport Indonesia Set to Increase Open-Pit Mining After Restart
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-06-24T06:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/freeport-indonesia-set-to-increase-open-pit-mining-after-restart.html
Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
may scale up open-pit mining at the Grasberg mine in  Indonesia 
to normal levels this week after restarting operations following
a tunnel collapse that forced a shutdown.  PT Freeport Indonesia began production at the world’s
second-biggest copper mine on June 22 after the government
approved milling and open-pit operations, Daisy Primayanti, the
company’s spokeswoman, said in a mobile-phone text message
today. Output from the open-pit mine may reach normal levels in
three to four days, Rozik Soetjipto, president director at the
company, said in a phone interview. Resumption of underground
operation is pending a decision by the Energy and Mineral
Resources Ministry, Soetjipto said.  Freeport declared force majeure on shipments on June 12, a
clause that allows it to miss obligations due to situations
beyond its control. Production from Grasberg stopped following
the tunnel collapse on May 14 that killed 28 people. The company
hasn’t yet lifted the force majeure, Soetjipto said.  Output from the open-pit section of Grasberg accounts for
70 percent to 80 percent of the total mine production, according
to  Gayle Berry , Nicholas Snowdon and Sijin Cheng, analysts at
Barclays Plc. “If the open-pit section is re-opened this week,
this would certainly limit the disruptions, versus initial
expectations for as long as 2-3 month closure,” they wrote in a
research note June 21.  Copper extended a third weekly loss as London Metal
Exchange inventories climbed to a 10-year high and operations
resumed at the Grasberg mine in Indonesia. The metal for
delivery in three months dropped as much as 1.4 percent to
$6,723.50 a metric ton and was last at $6,726.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  