-- Frenkel to Replace Fischer in Return to Bank of Israel
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   U d i   S e g a l
-- 2013-06-24T15:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/frenkel-to-replace-fischer-in-return-to-bank-of-israel.html
Jacob Frenkel , chairman of  JPMorgan
Chase (JPM)  International, will return to head the Bank of  Israel ,
replacing  Stanley Fischer  in the governor’s job he left 13 years
ago.  Supporters, including Finance Minister Yair Lapid, said
Frenkel is an “excellent” choice because he has the right
experience to stabilize Israel’s slowing economy. Critics asked
whether the 70-year-old Frenkel, who defied a public outcry in
his first tenure over the high  interest rates  he imposed, was
the right appointment at this time, given public demands for
greater economic equality.  “In his first term as Bank of Israel governor, Frenkel was
regarded as anti-social welfare and representative of the most
conservative form of capitalism,” Shmuel Slavin, who served as
Finance Ministry director-general during Frenkel’s first term as
governor, wrote in today’s Maariv daily.  The shekel was little changed after the appointment. The
currency traded at 3.6370 per  U.S. dollar  as of 6:13 p.m. in  Tel
Aviv , compared with 3.6412 the previous trading day, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the 4.25 percent
benchmark 2023 bond gained 5 basis points to 3.93 percent at the
close in Tel Aviv.  Frenkel’s appointment by Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
and Lapid was announced in a statement last night and must be
ratified by the Cabinet. The post of governor unexpectedly
opened in January when Fischer, 69, announced he would leave at
the end of June, midway through his second, five-year term.  Surprise Choice  The choice of Frenkel, who served as governor from 1991 to
2000, took bank-watchers by surprise. Israeli media had reported
that the prime minister was casting abroad for an
internationally known economist. Frenkel’s name never came up.  “In Netanyahu’s mind, he thinks the fact that someone who
is internationally well known is a prerequisite, someone who can
represent Israel internationally,”  Jonathan Katz , an economist
at HSBC Holdings Plc in Tel Aviv, said in a telephone interview.  Passed over was Deputy Governor Karnit Flug, whom Fischer
earlier said was qualified to succeed him.  Frenkel returns to a central bank that operates differently
and is grappling with problems other than the inflation that was
his top priority in his first tenure. Inflation is low and
growth has slowed. In addition, Fischer  shifted responsibility
for the monthly interest-rate decision from the governor alone -
- a prerogative Frenkel enjoyed -- to a six-member monetary
policy committee.  Turned to Business  Before joining JPMorgan, Frenkel was vice chairman of New
York-based insurer American International Group Inc. and
chairman of Merrill Lynch International. All along, he has built
contacts as central bank governor, an economics professor at the
 University of Chicago  and research director at the  International
Monetary Fund .  Frenkel studied economics at the  Hebrew University of
Jerusalem  in the 1960s, polishing diamonds during the day to
finance his studies. He earned a master’s degree and PhD in
economics at the University of  Chicago .  Fischer praised Frenkel after he left the bank for helping
the Israeli economy to grow amid measures to curb inflation and
stabilize the shekel. During his tenure, inflation was as high
as 18 percent, and by the time he left the bank, it was tamed to
around 1 percent. To achieve that, he set interest rates as high
as 24 percent.  “It took economic expertise, political skill and courage
to succeed, and he has earned the esteem in which he is held in
the international community,” Fischer said in a 2001 interview.  Slowing Growth  Frenkel said today that the Israeli economy has “huge”
potential and that he would use the experience he has amassed to
help propel it forward.  “We have a strong economy,” Frenkel told reporters in
parliament, in his first comments since his appointment. “We
have an economy that weathered many crises, not because we are
on the good side of the ocean, but because responsible policy
was employed.”  In an interview in January, Frenkel said his main challenge
during his first go-round as governor was to reduce inflation.  “We had significant engines of economic growth triggered
by a very large influx of immigrants, primarily from the  Soviet
Union , an extraordinary boom of the high-technology revolution
and encouraging developments in the geopolitical sphere,”
Frenkel said. “Today, inflation has been arrested and the
global economy is very sluggish. Now the main challenge is to
secure sustainable economic growth.”  Inflation Low  Inflation since Frenkel’s time has remained, for the most
part, within or below the government’s target band of 1 percent
to 3 percent. At the same time, domestic growth is slowing, the
shekel is strengthening, global demand is sluggish and housing
prices are rising. Including a boost from new natural gas
production, the Israeli economy will expand 3.8 percent in 2013
and 3.2 percent next year, the central bank said today. It grew
3.2 percent in 2012.  Fischer, who led the bank’s monetary policy decision for
the last time today, held the benchmark rate at 1.25 percent,
after cutting twice last month. The panel cited as one reason
the Fed’s signal that it would halt quantitative easing.  The  Bank of Israel  last month cut the benchmark by a
cumulative 0.5 percentage point in a bid to moderate the
strengthening of the shekel, and announced it would buy $2.1
billion in foreign currency by year’s end.  “Frenkel second-generation is entering the job at the
height of the global currency war, and it will be interesting to
see how he manages in a repeat scenario of a strengthening
dollar,” said Yaniv Pagot, chief strategist at Ayalon Group
Ltd. “Another challenge for Frenkel will be to help the
government take the air out of the housing market and prevent
damage to the financial system.”  Fischer, a former No. 2 at the International Monetary Fund,
said he was stepping down for personal reasons, mostly because
his family is in the U.S. and he has achieved many of the goals
he wanted to accomplish.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Udi Segal in  Jerusalem  at 
 usegal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  