-- Fresh Rains Hamper Rescue Efforts in India’s Disaster-Hit Region
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   S a n t o s h   K u m a r
-- 2013-06-24T12:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/fresh-rains-hamper-rescue-efforts-in-india-s-disaster-hit-region.html
Rain and landslides delayed
operations to rescue as many as 10,000 people still trapped in a
northern Indian state a week after flash floods ravaged hill
towns and killed hundreds of people.  While the army continued to evacuate people along mountain
tracks, helicopters were grounded by bad weather and low
visibility. There had been no flights from the helipad at
Dehradun, Om Prakash, the home secretary of Uttarakhand state,
said by phone. Many of those trapped are pilgrims who had been
trekking to remote Hindu and Sikh shrines in the foothills of
the Himalayas when torrential downpours hit.  “Our helicopter rotors will not stop churning till such
time we get each one of you out, do not lose hope and hang in
there,” Air Chief N.A.K. Browne said in a message to those
stranded. More rain is expected over the next six days, the
national  weather  office said.  Rescue teams have had to mend broken roads, construct
makeshift bridges and restore telephone connectivity. So far,
about 83,000 people have been retrieved from the region.  Shrines in the narrow valleys of the Himalayas lure
thousands of Hindu and Sikh pilgrims during the summer months.
While tourists usually return to the plains before the annual
monsoon, this year the rains came early and in unprecedented
ferocity, catching many by surprise.  As many as 1,000 people may have died, NDTV 24X7 reported
citing Vijay Bahuguna, Uttarakhand’s chief minister. Federal
Home Secretary R.K. Singh said in  New Delhi  today that the
official death toll is 557.  Officials will collect DNA samples from those who have died
and their bodies will be photographed so families can be sure of
their identity, Singh said.  Uttarakhand, which abuts  India ’s border with  China  to the
west of Nepal and has a population of about 10 million, has
received almost four times the usual rainfall this month,
causing rivers to burst their banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Santosh Kumar in New Delhi at 
 sthakur10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  