-- Germany May Overtake U.K. as Biggest Europe Cruise Market
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-06-24T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/germany-may-overtake-u-k-as-biggest-europe-cruise-market.html
Germany  is set to become Europe’s
top contributor of passengers to the cruise industry as record
 employment  levels and generous vacation rules give consumers the
cash and leisure time for sightseeing by sea.  “Growth in Germany this year will probably be at about the
same level as last year,” when passenger numbers increased 11
percent, Michael Ungerer, president of the Cruise Lines
International Association’s newly established  branch  in the
country, said in a telephone interview on June 20. “Germany
will be Europe’s biggest market in the foreseeable future.”  The U.K., currently the region’s biggest cruise market,
showed no growth at 1.7 million passengers last year, while 1.71
million Germans will take overnight ocean trips this year,
according to Ungerer’s forecast. The global cruise market is
estimated to grow 4.5 percent this year to $36.2 billion,
according to industry data and analysis provider Cruise Market
Watch.  Germany’s economic growth, as well as employment levels
near an all-time high, contrast with recessions in southern
 Europe , where  record joblessness  in countries including Spain
and  Italy  have almost halted the industry’s growth in the
region, the Brussels-based CLIA Europe said in its 2012-2013
 annual report . Germany offers a minimum 20 days vacation plus 10
paid holidays, according to the U.S. Center for  Economic Policy 
and Research.  Cruise operators are keeping ships full by using discounts
targeting holiday makers who tend to book later and wait for
rebates, Ungerer said.  Late Reservations  “Bookings are coming in on much shorter notice,” Ungerer
said. “Part of that is induced by pricing. Short-term bookings
are at the highest level ever.”  The Costa division of  Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the world’s largest
cruise operator, offered a seven-day all inclusive trip on June
20 from Copenhagen to the fjords of  Norway  and back on its Costa
Fortuna liner for 299 euros ($390) a passenger, a discount of 70
percent, according to the brand’s website. The average price of
an ocean cruise in Germany in 2012 was 1,710 euros a passenger,
or 185.50 euros a day, according to data from German travel
association DRV.  In the U.S., Carnival offered a Caribbean cruise in April
for as little as $38 a night, less than a stay at a budget-priced Motel 6 in the country, after more than a year of mishaps
with vessels, including an engine fire on the Carnival Triumph
that stranded passengers at sea for several days in February.  Sinking’s Effects  Carnival is projected by  analysts  to earn only about half
the annual profit it generated at its peak in 2007, after fires,
robberies and the sinking of the Costa Concordia off Italy in
January 2012 with the loss of 32 passengers tarnished its
reputation.  Ungerer is also chief executive of AIDA Cruises, another of
Miami-based Carnival’s European brands.  The CLIA, based in  Fort Lauderdale , Florida, doesn’t
provide regional data on sales or profit of cruise operators,
several of which aren’t listed publicly, including third-ranked,
Geneva-based Mediterranean Shipping Co.  Carnival posted a decline of 0.9 percent in passenger-tickets sales in the fiscal first quarter through February,
while passengers carried rose 1.9 percent to 2.3 million. That
contrasts with growth of 3 percent for ticket revenue and a
decline of 1.3 percent for passenger numbers in the three months
ended March 31 at Miami-based  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) , the
industry’s second-biggest operator.  Royal Caribbean has reduced capacity in Europe by 10
percent this year. Carnival has said it won’t sail any of its
namesake brand ships in Europe next year.  Construction of cruise liners “has slowed somewhat, as the
big players are not building 10 or 12 new ships per year
anymore, but two or three,” Ungerer said. “As the newly built
ships are bigger, capacity won’t shrink as much as the declining
number of ships indicates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  