-- Glaxo Diabetes Drug Didn’t Beat Takeda's Actos in Trial
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-06-24T14:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/glaxo-diabetes-drug-didn-t-beat-takeda-s-actos-in-trial.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s (GSK)  experimental
diabetes medicine albiglutide didn’t work better than  Takeda
Pharmaceutial Co.’s (4502)  Actos medicine and showed higher rates of
gastrointestinal side effects in a study.  Albiglutide didn’t achieve non-inferiority to Actos in a
late-stage study dubbed Harmony 5, Glaxo said in a  statement 
today. The results add to evidence from another trial, Harmony
3, where albiglutide lowered blood sugar better than Merck &
Co.’s Januvia or Sanofi’s Amaryl, while more patients reported
gastrointestinal side effects.  The findings add to mixed results released so far by Glaxo,
which has conducted eight late-stage studies on albiglutide.
Glaxo has said the drug failed to help diabetics control their
blood sugar as well as  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) ’s Victoza in another
trial.  “The data suggest that albiglutide is unlikely to be
sufficient for it to be a serious competitor in the market,”
said Sam Fazeli, a London-based analyst at Bloomberg Industries.
“There is a small risk that the regulators would say that the
the risk-benefit profile isn’t supportive of approval.”  Glaxo submitted albiglutide to U.S. regulators in January
and to European regulators in March. The company has said it’s
seeking a partner to help market the drug.  Albiglutide’s once-weekly dosing would make the drug more
convenient for patients compared with existing once-daily
treatments. Still, it will face challenges as it enters a
“crowded area,” Patrick Vallance, Glaxo’s head of
pharmaceuticals research and development, said in an interview.  Sales of albiglutide may reach  $301 million  in 2016,
according to the average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Avandia, once the world’s best-selling diabetes pill
with peak annual sales of of about $3 billion for Glaxo, was
withdrawn from the market in  Europe  in 2010 and sales were
limited in the U.S. because of an increased risk of heart
attacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  