-- Gol Plunges Sixth Day on Plan to Cut More Brazilian Flights
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-06-24T21:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/gol-plunges-for-sixth-day-on-plan-to-cut-more-brazilian-flights.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA,
 Brazil ’s biggest airline, dropped for a sixth day as it said it
will reduce domestic flights more than previously planned.  The shares fell 7.6 percent to 6.73 reais at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo , the lowest since April 2009. It was the
second-worst performance on the Ibovespa stock benchmark, which
lost 2.3 percent.  Gol plans to cut domestic flights by as much as 9 percent
in 2013, compared with a previous estimate of 7 percent,
according to a regulatory filing today. The airline, which has
been reducing service to stem operating losses that swelled to a
record 906 million reais ($407 million) in 2012, said the
reduction will allow it to meet this year’s target for an
operating margin ranging from 1 percent to 3 percent.  The airline also reduced its estimates for economic growth
this year in Brazil and for the foreign- exchange rate , a sign
that it might not reach financial targets, according to Felipe Rocha, an analyst at the brokerage firm Omar Camargo. “That
makes it harder to achieve the desired profitability,” he said
in a phone interview from Curitiba, Brazil.  The company now expects Brazil’s gross domestic product to
expand between 2 percent and 2.5 percent, down from a previous
projection for expansion between 2.5 percent and 3 percent. The
real’s average exchange this year will be between 2.08 and 2.18
per dollar, compared with a prior forecast of 1.95 to 2.05,
according to the filing.  Currency Volatility  Gol had 73 percent of its obligations denominated in
foreign currency in the first quarter, according to a May
regulatory filing. The company gets about 93 percent of revenue
in reais.  Volatility in the real has been hurting Gol’s stock, and
shares will continue to be affected until it becomes more clear
what the exchange rate will be, Chief Executive Officer Paulo Kakinoff told investors at an event today in  New York .  “Extremely high exchange rate volatility affects our stock
price directly,” Kakinoff said. “We’re cutting flights that
are less interesting economically speaking. That benefits the
margins.”  The Sao Paulo-based airline’s shares have lost 48 percent
this year while the  Ibovespa (IBOV)  dropped 25 percent. The real has
slumped 7.9 percent in 2013 to 2.2268 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  