-- Ibovespa Futures Drop as China Growth Concern Saps Commodities
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-06-24T12:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/ibovespa-futures-drop-as-china-growth-concern-saps-commodities.html
Ibovespa  futures  dropped as
commodities from metals to crude declined amid concern that a
cash crunch will limit economic growth in  China ,  Brazil ’s top
trading partner.  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , billionaire  Eike Batista ’s shipping unit,
may be active after denying a report by Folha de S.Paulo saying
it missed a 500-million real ($221 million) payment to a service
provider. The newspaper didn’t say how it obtained the
information. Dental-care plan provider  Odontoprev SA (ODPV3)  may move
after Banco Santander SA raised its recommendation to buy.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in August tumbled 2.4
percent to 45,900 at 9:24 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real dropped
0.9 percent to 2.2628 per dollar. The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index slumped 1.9 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials fell 0.5 percent.
Commodities declined after China’s central bank said that the
nation should fine-tune its policies as a cash squeeze in the
banking system risks exacerbating an economic slowdown.  “European stocks and U.S.-index futures are trading lower
this morning due to a less favorable outlook for China,” Banco
Bradesco SA’s economic team, led by Octavio de Barros, wrote in
a note to clients today. “The Brazilian market should track the
external outlook. We expect losses for equities.”  Economic Outlook  Economists lowered their forecast for Brazilian growth this
year to 2.46 percent from 2.49 percent the previous week,
according to a survey published by the central bank today.  The Ibovespa slumped into a  bear market  on June 11 after
falling more than 20 percent from this year’s peak on Jan. 3. It
has since extended those losses to 26 percent. Brazil’s
benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.9 times analysts’  earnings
estimates  for the next four quarters, compared with 9.5 for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Foreign investors have pulled 4.9 billion reais from Latin
America’s largest equity market this month through June 19, data
from the exchange show. Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo
was 10.5 billion reais on June 21, compared with a daily average
of 7.9 billion reais this year through June 20, according to
data  compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  