-- Microsoft Joins Merck in Pitch for Tech-Friendly Tax Code
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-24T16:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/microsoft-joins-merck-in-pitch-for-tech-friendly-tax-code.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK)  Inc.,
Amgen Inc. and other technology-focused companies are joining
forces to seek U.S. tax code changes that wouldn’t put at a
disadvantage income earned from patents and intangible assets.  The companies are part of the newly formed  Tax Innovation
Equality Coalition , whose other members include  Xilinx Inc. (XLNX) ,
 Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   The Washington-based group, which announced its formation
today, is responding to proposals -- including one from House
Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp  -- that would apply different
tax rules to income earned from intangible assets. Changes to
those laws could raise these companies’ taxes to pay for lighter
burdens on the foreign income of all U.S.-based multinational
corporations.  “It only makes sense that any tax reform proposal would
try to cut the benefits of the members of this coalition,
because they have the lowest effective tax rates,” said  Martin
Sullivan , chief economist at Tax Analysts in  Falls Church ,
Virginia. “This coalition is playing defense.”  Camp, a Michigan Republican, this month endorsed a carrot-and-stick approach that would apply a 15 percent immediate tax
to such income regardless of where it’s earned. That would give
the companies a tax increase abroad and a  tax cut  at home.  25% Rate  Other corporate income would be subject to a 25 percent
rate on domestic profits and almost no U.S. tax on foreign
income.  “Companies would feel less pressure to shift income to
low-tax jurisdictions because that income would be taxed at the
same rate -- whether it is earned in the United States or
Bermuda,” Camp said at a June 13 hearing.  Under the current U.S. tax system, companies can move
intangible assets derived from intellectual property across
borders and can structure their businesses in ways that minimize
foreign taxes. They can then avoid U.S. taxes by keeping the
money overseas.  The TIE Coalition is the latest in a series of groups that
have formed as Congress considers a rewrite of the U.S. tax
code. Other groups are focusing on the corporate  tax rate  and
changing international tax rules.  The coalition isn’t advocating or opposing a particular
plan, said Mark Nebergall, president of the Washington-based
Software Finance & Tax Executives Council.  “All these proposals, with a few exceptions, seem to pick
on intangible property,” he said. “Proposals that do not
discriminate against intangibles are the ones that deserve the
most scrutiny.”  Tax Credits  Congress should be careful not to impose tax changes that
could cost jobs in industries reliant on intellectual property,
said Matthew Slaughter, a Dartmouth College professor who
conducted a study for the coalition.  “In many ways,  tax policy  being one, there are literally
dozens of other countries in the world that are moving
aggressively to try to build their capacity” in these
industries, he said in a phone interview today.  The current U.S. system already gives these companies
breaks, Sullivan said. They are eligible for the research tax
credit and can take advantage of the mobility of intangible
assets, which can be transferred more easily than factories.  “It’s hard to value and it’s hard to locate,” Sullivan
said, “and so that makes it easy to put a lot of profit into a
tax haven.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  