-- India Plans to Revive Wind-Farm Tax Break, Raise Subsidy
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-06-24T11:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/india-plans-to-revive-wind-farm-tax-break-raise-subsidy.html
India  plans to revive tax breaks for
wind farms after the expiry of earlier incentive programs led to
a 47 percent slump in installations, according to two government
officials with direct knowledge of the matter.  The Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy  proposed to resume
a break for depreciation on wind farms and boost a subsidy for
alternative generation, the officials said, asking not to be
identified because the proposal is awaiting Cabinet approval.  Investment in the wind industry sputtered after the two
incentives expired on March 31, 2012, stalling turbine orders
for manufacturers such as  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  and  Gamesa Corp. (GAM) 
Tecnologica SA. The slump in installations last financial year
toppled India from its place as the world’s third-biggest market
for the industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors may claim the tax break and subsidy retroactively
from April 1, 2012, should they be revived, the officials said.  Under the program, wind-farm owners could claim accelerated
depreciation on 80 percent of the cost of equipment, allowing
them to write off investments quickly. Alternatively, they would
be allowed 500 rupees ($8.37) per megawatt-hour of electricity
fed into the grid under the generation-based incentive program.  Accelerated depreciation drove a third to half of yearly
installations, according to the ministry. Minister Farooq Abdullah blamed the incentive in 2011 for prompting investors to
put up wind farms for tax breaks rather than generating power.  The ministry decided to revive it after comparing wind farm
output based on data from the Central Electricity Authority and
finding projects operated at similar efficiencies, or plant load
factors of about 21 percent, regardless of the incentive they
chose, according to the officials.  The proposal also supports raising the amount of the
generation-based subsidy and its cap of 6.2 million rupees per
megawatt, the officials said, declining to say by how much.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  