-- Insurers Abandon Long Island After Sandy, Schumer Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-06-25T00:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/insurers-abandon-long-island-after-sandy-schumer-says.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL)  is among insurers
retreating from the Long Island homeowners market after
superstorm Sandy and should be compelled to offer coverage
there, New York Senator Charles Schumer said.  Liberty Mutual Holding Co. and Bloomington, Illinois-based
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. are also scaling
back, forcing residents to pay more for homeowners’ policies,
Schumer, a Democrat, said today in a  statement . He called on the
 Federal Emergency Management Agency  to penalize home insurers if
they abandon the region.  Representatives of all three insurers said they remain
committed to the state. “Allstate is currently writing
homeowners policies on Long Island and throughout New York,”
Kyle Donash, a spokesman at the Northbrook, Illinois-based
company, said in an e-mail. Allstate is the largest publicly
traded U.S. home and auto insurer.  Sandy, the biggest Atlantic storm in history, struck the
U.S. East Coast on Oct. 29, killing more than 100 people and
destroying homes and businesses. Its  $18.8 billion  in claims
made it the third-costliest U.S. storm on record, the Insurance
Information Institute has said.  “With precious little justification, policies are being
dropped left and right, even for those who paid all their bill
on time,” Schumer said. “Many of these homeowners were not
even affected by superstorm Sandy and now they’re being forced
into extremely expensive plans.”  State Farm “has no plans to withdraw from the state,”
Rachael Risinger, a spokeswoman at State Farm, said in an e-mail. “State Farm is one of the largest writers of homeowners
insurance in the state.”  Liberty Mutual is “writing new and renewal homeowners
insurance business throughout New York state, including Long
Island,” Glenn Greenberg, a spokesman for the insurer, said in
an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in San Francisco at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  