-- Lira Set for Record Low as Yields Jump Amid Planned Dollar Sales
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-06-24T09:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/lira-set-for-record-low-as-yields-jump-amid-planned-dollar-sales.html
The lira weakened for a sixth day,
heading for a record low, as the Turkish central bank’s planned
dollar sales failed to stem the fallout from a signal to scale
back U.S monetary stimulus.  The currency depreciated 0.1 percent to 1.9412 at 11:29
a.m. in Istanbul, its lowest level on a closing basis since at
least 1981. Yields on five-year debt jumped 26 basis points, or
0.26 percentage point, to 8.99 percent, the highest level in
more than a year, before a sale of similar-maturity debt today.  The central bank will hold a single dollar auction on days
it provides funding at its policy rate of 4.5 percent and will
sell at least $150 million. That compares with a sale of $350
million in multiple auctions on June 20, when the lira hit its
lowest level to date of 1.95 per dollar. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 the U.S. central bank
may curtail its monthly asset purchases as soon as this year,
cutting risk appetite for emerging-market debt and currencies.  “The chances are slim that the central bank’s $150 million
sale can counter the lira selling pressure in the market at this
stage,” Ipek Ozkardeskaya, a currency strategist at Swissquote
Bank in Geneva, said in e-mailed comments. “It is strongly
probable that the dollar will keep strengthening this week after
the Fed meeting.”  Turkey’s borrowing costs have jumped and the lira weakened
as anti-government protests broke out at the end of May. Premier
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said at a party rally in the central
Anatolian city of Kayseri on June 21 the “main opposition will
pay price for backing protest.” Turkish people will not bow to
artists and writers who are “humiliating” them, he said.  The Treasury is scheduled to sell fixed-rate debt due in
2018 and inflation-linked securities today, followed by two-,
seven- and 10-year debt tomorrow, according to a May 31
statement.  Turkey  is seeking to raise 38.8 billion liras ($20
billion) through August in domestic debt sales, including 13
billion liras this month, the document said. That compares with
17.6 billion liras in the same period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  