-- Iran Rial Gains 15% Since Rohani Win on Optimism for Thaw
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-06-24T09:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/iran-rial-gains-15-since-hassan-rohani-s-election-last-week.html
The Iranian rial has gained 15
percent since the victory of president-elect Hassan Rohani, who
has said he will seek an easing of international sanctions in an
effort to revive the economy.  The currency strengthened to 31,500 rial a dollar in
 unregulated trading  shortly before markets closed yesterday,
from 36,250 on June 13, the day before Rohani’s surprise first-round election victory, according to Daily Rates For Gold Coins
and Foreign Currencies, a Facebook page used by businessmen
based in Iran and abroad. Today is a public holiday in Iran and
markets are closed.  Unlike President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who advocated a
confrontational approach to Western nations, Rohani has said he
will bring more transparency to  Iran’s nuclear program  in an
effort to roll back some of the U.S. and European Union measures
against the country, which cut oil exports and pushed inflation
to 30 percent. The rial had lost more than half of its value
against the dollar in the past year amid financial and energy
sanctions.  With accelerating inflation eroding the value of savings in
rial, Iranians had turned to dollars as a form of investment.
Now they have started to reintroduce to the market the dollars
stacked at home, amounting to some $20 billion according to
Central Bank governor Mahmoud Bahmani, Tehran-based  Shargh 
newspaper reported yesterday.  EU Hopes  European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said
today she hopes Iran’s new government will work with world
powers on settling the dispute over its nuclear program.  “I really hope that we might see some progress,” Ashton,
who represents United Nations Security Council powers plus
 Germany  in nuclear talks with Iran, told reporters before an EU
foreign ministers’ meeting in Luxembourg. “We’ve put some good
confidence-building measures on the table.”  Iran and world powers failed to reach an accord during the
last round of nuclear negotiations, which was held in  Kazakhstan 
in April. Western diplomats complained that Iran failed to
respond to a confidence-building proposal made six weeks ago
that would ease some economic sanctions in exchange for  Iran 
curbing its nuclear program.  Iran’s interlocutors are calling for a halt in enrichment
of uranium to 20 percent purity. The Islamic republic says it
needs the medium-enriched uranium for isotopes to treat cancer
patients, while the U.S. and its allies say it may further
enrich the uranium to create material to build nuclear weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  