-- IRS Offers Faster Tax-Exemption Route to Delayed Groups
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-24T19:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/irs-offers-faster-tax-exemption-route-to-delayed-groups.html
Groups stuck in the U.S.  Internal
Revenue Service ’s backlog of applications for tax-exempt status
will have a chance for speedy approval of their applications if
they promise to limit political spending.  Advocacy groups that have been delayed for more than 120
days can receive tax exemptions if they agree to spend less than
40 percent of resources and volunteer hours on politics and more
than 60 percent on activities promoting social welfare, said
Danny Werfel, the tax agency’s interim leader.  The IRS said it would send letters to about 80 groups
offering a faster option, which would allow them to get their
tax-exempt status within two weeks. They must make their time
and spending calculations based on political activity, including
public communications identifying a candidate within 60 days of
a general election or 30 days of a primary.  Werfel’s decision to speed up those applications is part of
his attempt to respond to the controversy surrounding the IRS.
Starting in 2010, the IRS delayed applications for tax-exempt
status and gave Tea Party groups extra scrutiny.  “We need to earn and maintain the trust of the American
people in order to accomplish our mission,” Werfel, who took
over the IRS on May 22, told reporters on a conference call
today.  The IRS today released a report outlining his plan, and
Werfel said he briefed Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and
President  Barack Obama .  The controversy has spurred six congressional inquiries and
a Justice Department criminal probe. Since taking over the IRS,
Werfel has replaced at least three IRS managers who oversaw
applications for tax exemption -- Lois Lerner, Holly Paz and
Joseph Grant.  Managers ‘Replaced’  “We believe that these individuals should no longer hold a
position of public trust within the IRS and therefore we’ve
replaced” them, he said.  Citing privacy laws, Werfel wouldn’t say whether Lerner and
Paz had been fired or whether he was seeking to fire them. Grant
retired.  Werfel announced the formation of an accountability review
board at the IRS to recommend additional personnel changes.  In response to criticism that donors to small-government
groups may have been singled out for audits of their personal
taxes, Werfel said he would begin an agency-wide review of the
criteria used to select taxpayers for further scrutiny.  Werfel also said he had suspended the use of all “Be on
the Lookout” lists, or BOLOs, which employees used to decide
which cases should merit more attention. Such lists from 2010
included the words “ Tea Party ” and “patriot.”  IRS Title  Werfel is in charge of the IRS. His title, principal deputy
commissioner, reflects a federal law that limits how long an
agency can have an acting leader without someone being nominated
for the permanent job.  Obama hasn’t nominated an IRS commissioner. Douglas Shulman, the last Senate-confirmed commissioner, announced his
intention to leave in April 2012 and left in November 2012.  Werfel said his review of the agency’s actions hasn’t found
evidence of intentional wrongdoing or involvement from outside
the IRS. That’s consistent with the findings so far of
congressional investigators who have been interviewing IRS
employees.  Werfel wouldn’t provide additional information as to who at
the IRS knew about the selective scrutiny and when.  Potential Audits  An inspector general’s report released last month found
that Lerner knew as early as June 2011 or July 2011 about Tea
Party groups receiving extra scrutiny. The top layer of IRS
executives, including Shulman and former acting commissioner
 Steven Miller , didn’t know the details until 2012, after
lawmakers started complaining, the report showed.  “There will be answers to all those questions,” Werfel
said.  Groups that receive fast-track approval of their
applications still would be subject to potential audits for
political activity beyond what they promised. The IRS said May
15 that about 470 groups had their applications “centralized,”
or subject to additional attention. Of those, more than 175
already have been approved.  Organizations operating under section 501(c)(4) of the  tax
code  must operate “exclusively” for the purpose of promoting
social welfare.  Statute Interpretation  The IRS has interpreted that statute to mean that the
groups can’t have politics as their primary purpose. Groups
expecting to spend between 40 percent and 50 percent of their
resources and time on politics should go through the regular
application process, Werfel said.  Social welfare groups don’t have to disclose their donors,
making them an attractive structure for anonymous political
involvement.  The IRS in the past has denied that it had a 49 percent
standard. Elizabeth Hofacre, an employee who reviewed
applications, told congressional investigators that the IRS did
exactly that.  The IRS may issue further regulations.  “We’re working closely with Treasury on a road map toward
better clarity in this area,” Werfel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  