-- This Is Not About Edward Snowden
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-24T22:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/this-is-not-about-edward-snowden.html
When Edward Snowden leaked
classified information about U.S. intelligence programs this
month, he became both a criminal and, many would say, a
 conscientious citizen . His quest to evade American authorities
now risks making him a distraction.  As of this writing, Snowden’s whereabouts are unknown. He
reportedly flew yesterday from Hong Kong to Moscow, but Russia
 says  it has no information about him. Ecuador says he has asked
for  asylum . What Snowden thinks he’s up to is also in doubt. His
asylum application says he can’t expect a fair trial or humane
treatment in the U.S. Regardless of whether he’s right, seeking
aid from countries not exactly known for respecting the rights
of their citizens raises the question of what exactly it is
about the U.S.’s treatment of its citizens that is so noxious.  Snowden’s location and motives are interesting to speculate
about, but they shouldn’t distract attention from what really
matters in all this:  -- Twelve years after the Sept. 11 attacks (and two years
after the killing of Osama bin Laden) the security apparatus
created in response is growing, not shrinking.  -- The U.S. government is monitoring its citizens’
communications on a  scale  that was previously unknown and is
without precedent.  -- The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court has  declined 
just 11 of the government’s more than 33,900 surveillance
requests.  -- The legal interpretation of Section 215 of the Patriot
Act, which is used by that court to rule on government requests
for information, is  classified . So the laws that enable this
surveillance are themselves, in effect, secret.  -- The group meant to guarantee appropriate privacy
safeguards, the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, was
authorized by Congress in 2007, but didn’t get a full-time
chairman until last month, and has met with President  Barack
Obama  exactly  once .  The government has a legitimate interest in pursuing
Snowden. His leaks were a crime that has to be prosecuted. In
doing so, the Obama administration could also show that
Snowden’s concerns about a fair trial (and proportionate
charges) are unfounded.  Even more important, though, is that Snowden’s revelations
have thrown a spotlight on a balance between security and
liberty that the government has been striking largely in secret.
Snowden started a debate Obama now says he  wants . So do we.
That’s the discussion that counts.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 