-- Japanese Shares Retreat Amid Chinese Growth Concerns
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2013-06-24T07:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/japanese-shares-advance-as-exporters-climb-on-weaker-yen.html
Japanese  shares  fell, led by
companies that do business in China, amid concern about the
growth outlook for  Asia ’s biggest economy. Exporters slid even
as the yen weakened for a sixth day against the dollar.  Machinery companies and nonferrous-metal producers lost the
most among the 33 Topix index  industry groups . Air-conditioner
maker Daikin Industries Ltd. led China-related stocks lower
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its growth forecast for the
country. Electronics exporter  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  fell 1.9 percent.
Acom Co. jumped 3.2 percent after announcing a stock split, as
consumer lenders advanced the most on the broader gauge.  The Topix lost 0.9 percent to 1,089.64 at the close of
trading in  Tokyo , after rising 1.2 percent. Volume was about 47
percent below the 30-day average. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
fell 1.3 percent to 13,062.78. Gauges of mainland Chinese shares
dropped the most since 2009 today.  “Uncertainty about  China  is increasing and investors
wanting to reduce risk are starting to remove capital,” said
Takuya Yamada, a senior portfolio manager for Astmas Asset
Management Inc. in Tokyo. “It’s not the kind of situation where
you can pre-guess the market. The global stock selloff shows
just how concerned investors are.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index, a gauge of developed and
emerging market shares, sank the most in a year last week. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped as much as 1.9 percent today.
 Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index slumped as much as 2.5 percent,
while China’s CSI 300 Index plunged 6.3 percent and into a  bear
market  amid concerns about a cash crunch in the financial system
and slowing economic growth.  Daikin Slides  Daikin (6367) , which counts the world’s second-largest economy as
its biggest market outside  Japan , slumped 6.6 percent to 3,980
yen. Fanuc Corp., which supplies robotics to Chinese factories,
slid 2.3 percent to 14,270 yen. Trading company Sojitz Corp.,
which gets 21 percent of its revenue from Asia and Oceania,
slipped 1.2 percent to 165 yen.  Concerns about China’s cash crunch grew last week after
interbank lending rates surged to a record. Both Goldman Sachs
and China International Capital Corp. reduced their 2013 gross
domestic product-growth forecasts for the country to 7.4 percent
from 7.8 percent and 7.7 percent, respectively.  Exporters closed lower today, erasing gains from the
morning session, even as the yen fell as much as 0.8 percent
against the dollar and traded at about 98.38 at the close of
 stock trading  in Tokyo. The Japanese currency has retreated
against the greenback every day since June 14, the longest
losing streak since November.  Carmakers and consumer electronics makers, which have the
biggest  weighting  among the Topix industry groups, exerted the
biggest drag on the gauge.  Panasonic Tumbles  Panasonic, which gets about half of revenue outside Japan,
slid 1.9 percent to 719 yen.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
biggest carmaker, declined 1.5 percent to 5,750 yen. Nissan
Motor Co., which generates 34 percent of sales from  North
America  and 20 percent from Asia, fell 3.4 percent to 995 yen.  The Topix has retreated about 15 percent from an almost
five-year high on May 22. Shares have declined amid a
strengthening yen, disappointment about Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s growth strategy, the “third arrow” of his policy
package, and concern global stimulus will be reduced.  Japan’s Liberal Democratic Party-led coalition won nearly
two-thirds of the seats in a weekend Tokyo assembly election,
increasing optimism it will succeed in a national upper-house
poll expected on July 21. Victory for the ruling coalition in
the national poll would end the hung parliament that has
hampered decision-making.  Election Victory  “Investors are looking positively at the weaker yen and
likelihood of the LDP winning” the elections, said Hiroaki Hiwada, a strategist at Toyo Securities Co. in Tokyo. “But it’s
still unclear what effect U.S. monetary-easing tapering will
have on the market, so strong buy orders are unlikely. The
market will probably trade range-bound for a while.”  The  Topix (TPX)  has swung an average of about 3.2 percent daily
since May 22. The gauge’s 30-day historic  volatility  was at
40.85 today, near its highest level since the 2011 earthquake
and tsunami.  “Maybe some have been disappointed by the economic growth
strategies they have seen from Japan so far,” said Takahiro Mitani, president of the Government Pension Investment Fund, the
world’s biggest manager of retirement savings. “When people
tell me they are disappointed, I tell them that there is the
elections, so once the elections are over we may see Arrow 3.5.
Abe has basically said that too.”  ‘Very Difficult’  GPIF announced on June 7 that it raised its target holding
for local shares to 12 percent from 11 percent. The allocations
given this month are close to what the fund already holds,
Mitani said on June 21, and it doesn’t intend to change them
until at least March 2015. Mitani also said it would be “very
difficult” for the  Bank of Japan  to reach its 2 percent
inflation target in the next two years.  Even after the recent decline, the Nikkei 225 and Topix are
still up more than 26 percent this year, retaining Japan’s
position as the best-performing major equity market.  Among shares that rose, Acom jumped 3.2 percent to 3,035
yen after saying it would split shares 10-for-1. Consumer
lenders rose 0.9 percent, the most among the Topix sub-sectors.  Japan’s broader gauge may rise to 1,300 by the end of the
year, according to the median estimate of 17 strategists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Earnings for companies on the measure
will jump 53 percent this fiscal year to 78.85 yen a share,
according to analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  