-- Japan’s Ruling Coalition Wins Tokyo Election Ahead of July Poll
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-06-24T00:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/japan-s-ruling-coalition-wins-tokyo-election-ahead-of-july-poll.html
Japan ’s ruling Liberal Democratic
Party and its coalition partner won nearly two thirds of the
seats in a weekend Tokyo assembly poll, boding well for the
party’s prospects in a national upper house election in July.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s LDP took 59 seats and ally New
Komeito secured 23 seats of the 127 up for grabs in the
assembly, according to the Nikkei newspaper. The LDP became the
largest single party, replacing the Democratic Party of Japan,
which won 15 seats, down from the 43 it held going into the
election.  Victory for the LDP coalition in a national ballot for the
upper chamber of parliament expected on July 21 would end the
hung parliament that has hampered decision-making. The LDP won
by a landslide in a December general election, pledging a three-part strategy to revive the economy.  “I think there is a degree of recognition for what we have
achieved in the first six months of our administration,” Abe
told reporters in  Tokyo  late yesterday. “I will do everything I
can to help many people feel that the economy has begun to
improve.”  Abe and his cabinet ministers say his economic strategy,
consisting of unprecedented monetary easing, fiscal stimulus and
a plan to stimulate private investment, is working. Gross
domestic product grew 4.1 percent on an annualized basis in
January-March, faster than 1.2 percent in the previous quarter.  A survey published by the Nikkei newspaper today found 47
percent of respondents planned to vote for the LDP in the
proportional representation section of the upper house election.
The paper surveyed 918 people by phone between June 21-23 and
did not give a margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  