-- Japan’s High-Cost Renewable Energy Curbs Subsidy Impact
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-06-24T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/japan-s-high-cost-renewable-energy-curbs-subsidy-impact.html
Japan  must cut the cost of
installing solar panels and wind turbines to take full advantage
of clean energy incentives three times as generous as those in
Germany and  Sweden , an official at the energy foundation set up
by billionaire Masayoshi Son said.  High costs are one of the largest impediments to a wider
uptake of clean energy in Japan following the March 2011
earthquake and nuclear meltdown, said Tomas Kaberger, the
executive board chair of Son’s Japan Renewable Energy Foundation
and a former director of the Swedish Energy Agency.  Japan’s costs threaten to detract from government policy
offering financial incentives to sellers of clean energy. The
program introduced a year ago next month has prompted many new
entrants to Japan’s energy market, including Son’s  Softbank
Corp. (9984)  and  Orix Corp. (8591) , a finance and leasing company.  “It is not economically very impressive that you now have
feed-in tariffs that in solar and wind are about three times as
generous as the most efficient European markets,” Kaberger said
in an interview in  Tokyo .  Aided by the incentives, known as feed-in tariffs, Japan is
projected to become the largest solar market by annual
installations this year, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. The tariffs require utilities to buy electricity from
renewable sources at fixed prices.  Still, the approach comes with risks. Higher rates must be
balanced with the need to foster competition and tap global
experience, Kaberger said. Overly generous incentives “will not
create enough pressure to develop those skills,” he said.  Comparative Tariffs  Under Japan’s feed-in tariff program, clean energy
generators sell their power to local utilities at rates
guaranteed for a set period. In the case of solar, producers in
Japan get 37.8 yen (38 cents) per kilowatt hour for 20 years.  Japan’s tariff for solar was cut in April from 42 yen per
kilowatt hour the previous year to account for the lower cost of
solar panels and components.  Germany  began offering its
industry-changing feed-in tariff for solar in 2004, building on
previous smaller incentive programs. German solar tariffs are as
low as 0.1063 euro per kilowatt hour for 20 years.  “We must succeed in bringing down the costs,” Kaberger
said. “It’s difficult to explain why solar PV installation
should cost three times as much in Japan as in Germany.”  Installed system prices in Japan were $6.5 per watt,
compared with $2.5 per watt to $3.5 per watt in Germany in 2011,
according to an International Energy Agency report on solar
installations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  