-- Job-Supervisor Harassment Suits Limited by High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-06-24T19:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/job-supervisor-harassment-suits-limited-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
U.S. Supreme Court put new limits on
lawsuits claiming on-the-job harassment, throwing out a case
filed by a black catering worker who said a colleague slapped
her and used racial epithets.  The justices, voting 5-4, said the alleged harasser didn’t
qualify as Maetta Vance’s supervisor, a status that would make
it easier for the worker at Muncie, Indiana-based Ball State
University to win her case.  In a second 5-4 ruling, the court made it harder for
workers to win claims that their employer retaliated against
them for complaining about discrimination.  The court was divided along the same ideological lines in
both decisions. Voting in the majority were Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy,
Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito. Dissenting were Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.  In the Ball State case, Alito wrote for the court that
people qualify as supervisors only if they can take tangible
employment actions against the alleged victim.  The issue is an important one because employers are
generally liable for racial and sexual harassment by
supervisors. Workers file more than 30,000 formal harassment
complaints with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
each year.  Retaliation Claim  The second opinion, written by Kennedy, involved claims by
workers that their employer retaliated against them for
complaining they were subjected to discrimination.  In the case before the court, Naiel Nassar said he was
denied a position with a University of Texas medical center
because he complained about suffering discrimination as a
university faculty member on account of his Middle Eastern
background.  The court said that in such cases, the worker must show
that retaliation was the reason the employer took action, not
merely one of several motives.  The cases are Vance v. Ball State University, 11-556, and
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center v. Nassar, 12-484.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  