-- Judicial Minimalism Triumphs in Affirmative Action Case
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-06-24T20:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/judicial-minimalism-triumphs-in-affirmative-action-case.html
In today’s affirmative action case,
Fisher v. University of  Texas , the most important thing to know
may be the U.S. Supreme Court’s vote: 7 to 1. With the exception
of Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg , every member of the court joined
Justice  Anthony Kennedy ’s majority opinion. (Justice Elena Kagan
recused herself.)  Affirmative action  has long divided the justices as well as
the nation, and the remarkable near-unanimity of the court
speaks volumes. In a little-noticed speech in 2006, Chief
Justice  John Roberts  argued in favor of unanimous decisions from
the court, suggesting that unanimity leads to modest,
incremental and minimalist rulings. In his words, the “broader
the agreement among the justices, the more likely it is a
decision on the narrowest possible grounds.”  The basic idea is that if a diverse group of justices is
able to agree on an opinion, that opinion is more likely to
steer clear of intense controversy and avoid the largest
theoretical disputes.  This, in the chief justice’s view, is entirely desirable,
as he  explained  with an aphoristic summary of the minimalist
position in constitutional law: “If it is not necessary to
decide more to dispose of a case, in my view it is necessary not
to decide more.” The chief justice added that the “rule of law
is strengthened when there is greater coherence and agreement
about what the law is.”  Race Factor  For 35 years, the law governing affirmative action at
public universities has been relatively settled. In Regents of
the  University of California  v. Bakke, decided in 1978, Justice
Lewis Powell cast the decisive vote. He concluded that the
Constitution doesn’t impose a flat ban on affirmative-action
programs but that universities must avoid quota systems, and
that they are permitted to consider race as a “factor” only if
they can demonstrate that doing so is necessary to achieve the
educational benefits that come from a diverse student body.  In  2003 , a sharply divided court essentially endorsed
Powell’s reasoning. The court’s majority held that the
Constitution allows flexible, quota-free affirmative-action
programs, but also that judges must apply “strict scrutiny” to
assess whether such programs are both necessary and narrowly
tailored to achieve a compelling educational goal.  This approach rejects two more extreme positions. Some
people, including Justices Antonin Scalia and  Clarence Thomas ,
believe the Constitution calls for colorblindness. They insist
that under the Equal Protection Clause, the general rule is that
no public institution may take into account the race of a
student or applicant.  Others, including Justice Thurgood Marshall, have argued
that the Equal Protection Clause was designed above all to
eliminate a system of racial subordination. In their view, the
idea of colorblindness is not part of the Constitution, and
judges should uphold affirmative-action programs unless they are
genuinely unreasonable.  In Fisher, many people hoped -- or feared -- that a
majority of the court would take the opportunity to insist on
colorblindness. Instead, the court’s brief, technical, narrow
opinion reaffirms the constitutional status quo.  The central thrust of the opinion is that the federal
appeals court that ruled in favor of the Texas program had
failed to undertake the careful inquiry required by the  Supreme
Court ’s precedents. The court of appeals wrongly said that it
would defer to a university’s “educational judgment” that
diversity “is essential to its educational mission.” Kennedy
responded that “it is for courts, not the university
administrators,” to decide whether the university’s choice to
use race is necessary and narrowly tailored “to achieve the
educational benefits of diversity.”  Appeals Court  The fact that the university was acting in good faith (as
emphasized by the court of appeals) wasn’t enough. Federal
judges must give “close analysis to the evidence of how the
process works in practice.” Thus, the Supreme Court remanded the
case to the appeals court so that it could assess whether the
university’s affirmative-action program was, in fact, narrowly
tailored.  Scalia and Thomas wrote separately to reiterate their view
that the Constitution always forbids consideration of race. But
for present purposes, what is most important is that both of
them were willing to join Kennedy.  The court’s ruling is emphatically minimalist in the sense
that it breaks no theoretical ground and declines to make novel
pronouncements about the nature of the Constitution’s equality
principle. Its simple message is that lower courts must apply
the principles that the Supreme Court has already established.
With that message, it leaves those principles undisturbed.  No one should deny that minimalism can produce mistakes. If
the Constitution really does require colorblindness, then there
may be nothing wrong with a 5-4 decision in favor of
colorblindness. And if the court’s precedents are fundamentally
wrong, then there is nothing wrong with revisiting them.  Nonetheless, Roberts was right to emphasize that a
consensus within the court is likely to produce greater
stability in the law, and that it tends to produce narrow,
humble decisions, too. In this light, it is misleading to say
the court “punted” in the Fisher case. On the contrary, the
court’s modest, cautious ruling keeps faith with decades of
constitutional law -- and declines to destabilize the background
against which countless educational institutions, both large and
small, have been doing their work.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University
professor at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View  columnist .
He is the former administrator of the White House Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and
author of “Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 