-- Kempinski in Talks to Buy or Manage Europe Luxury Hotels
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-06-24T11:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/kempinski-in-talks-to-buy-or-manage-europe-luxury-hotels.html
Luxury-hotel operator Kempinski AG
is in talks to manage or buy properties in Barcelona, Paris and
Nice,  France , as it seeks to expand its European business.  The Geneva-based company is in advanced negotiations with
owners of the three hotels, Chief Operating Officer Duncan O’Rourke said yesterday. The deals should be completed by early
next year, he said, declining to identify the properties.  “The iconic trophy assets in  Europe  never lose value,”
O’Rourke said in an interview in Dubai. The hotelier’s first
choice would be to secure the management contracts for the
properties, and if that doesn’t happen it plans to buy them with
other investors or alone, he said.  Hotel investment in Europe was resilient last year even as
the region’s economies contracted,  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said
in a report in February. Hotel transactions reached 8.5 billion
euros ($11.2 billion), 4 percent less than the previous year.
The U.K. had most of the deals with 2.3 billion euros of
transactions, followed by France and  Germany , Jones Lang said.  Katara Hospitality, a unit of Qatar’s sovereign-wealth
fund, said last month it’s in talks to buy “iconic” hotels in
London and  Rome . AXA Real Estate Investment Managers said today
it acquired the NH Grand Hotel Krasnapolsky, in the center of
Amsterdam, from NH Hoteles SA for 157 million euros on behalf of
a European and an Asian client.  Closely held Kempinski’s profit climbed 18 percent in 2012
to a record as business at hotels opened in the previous two
years picked up, O’Rourke said.  “We are prepared to put equity in certain properties and
buying a property outright would also be an option,” O’Rourke
said.  Luxury hotels in the centers of the largest European cities
would probably command 1.5 million euros to 1.7 million euros
per room, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  