-- Kennedy Lets the Clock Run on Affirmative Action
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-06-24T16:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/kennedy-lets-the-clock-run-on-affirmative-action.html
And on  affirmative action , the U.S.
Supreme Court’s holding is … ticktock.  That’s the sound of the countdown clock on race-based
college admissions that Justice Sandra Day O’Connor started in
2003, when she  wrote  for the court that she expected such
policies might be necessary (and therefore constitutional) until
2028.  In Fisher v. Texas, Justice  Anthony Kennedy , writing for a
7-1 majority, declined to strike down the University of Texas’s
use of race as a factor in admissions. Yet he strengthened the
requirement that the state prove its program was strictly
necessary, signaling that the end might be approaching.  The decision gave something to everyone -- and signaled
that Kennedy is, despite himself, influenced by O’Connor’s frank
pragmatism even though she’s no longer on the court.  The fact that Texas’s plan wasn’t struck down counts as a
win for affirmative-action advocates, who feared Kennedy might
provide the deciding vote to require perfect race neutrality. It
also explains why the liberal Justices Stephen Breyer and  Sonia Sotomayor  joined the decision.  When O’Connor retired and was replaced by Justice  Samuel Alito , there was reason to think that the delicate compromise
she had crafted -- in essence preserving affirmative action
while noting that its days were numbered -- wouldn’t last long.
After all, Kennedy, who became the court’s swing vote post-O’Connor, had joined the main dissent in that landmark 2003 case
--  Grutter v. Bollinger  -- in which then-Chief Justice William Rehnquist would have struck down the  University of Michigan ’s
“race-plus” admissions system.  ‘Strict Scrutiny’  In deciding to take the Fisher case in October, the court’s
conservatives were seen as signaling that they expected Kennedy
would join them in overturning race-conscious admissions for
good. That he didn’t do so -- yet -- should give supporters of
affirmative action some hope.  At the same time, Kennedy held that the lower courts had
made a mistake by not closely scrutinizing whether the use of
race as an admissions factor was truly necessary to achieve the
legitimate goal of educational diversity. This opinion echoed
his separate dissent in Grutter, in which he also complained
that the lower courts hadn’t properly engaged in the analysis
known as “strict scrutiny” that is required when a government
program takes race into account.  Now, in Fisher, Kennedy sent the case back down to the
district court to redo its analysis. And he did it with special
emphasis. The court should defer to the  University of Texas ’s
educational expertise in claiming the importance of diversity,
Kennedy said. But when it came to the specific program adopted
to achieve that diversity, the court should not defer at all:
“The reviewing court must ultimately be satisfied that no
workable race-neutral alternatives would produce the educational
benefits of diversity.”  That is a very high requirement, and a win for affirmative-action’s opponents. It sets the stage for the lower courts
potentially to find that Texas could achieve diversity without
expressly considering race. Indeed, Texas has tried to do so
through its Top 10 Percent Plan, which guarantees admission to
the University of Texas to the top 1/10 of students from all
Texas high schools -- which are so heavily racially segregated
that some racial diversity is necessarily achieved.  In the next phase of the case, and thus of the affirmative
action saga, the state will have to argue to the district court
that there is no way it could achieve racial diversity without
in some way taking account of race. Reading the tea leaves, the
district court might well say there must be some other way to
accomplish this.  Unanswered Questions  But what way, exactly? Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg , today’s
lone dissenter, pointed out that even the 10-percent plan isn’t
really racially neutral, because it was designed precisely to
achieve racial diversity. This question Kennedy left unanswered.
And given that the 10-percent plan hasn’t successfully produced
enough diversity to satisfy the state, who gets to decide how
much diversity is enough? Kennedy held that it is up to the
state to say that diversity is valuable. Does this imply that it
is up to the state to say how much diversity is needed? That
question, too, remains to be answered.  The upshot of the Fisher holding is that if Kennedy does
want to strike down affirmative action, he wants to do it
gradually, stepwise, over several more years of litigation. That
is exactly what O’Connor wanted with her highly unusual 25-year
clock. Kennedy tends to prefer principles to such explicit
pragmatic compromise. But here, with the chance to make
headlines by striking down affirmative action, he acted like
O’Connor.  That gives us a clue for what Kennedy might do in the two
same-sex marriage cases that still loom. If he is foisting
gradualism on conservatives who want to end affirmative action,
he may be preparing to foist gradualism on liberals who want
full marriage rights for gay people right now. That would
require Kennedy to eschew some of his grandly principled
holdings in earlier fundamental rights cases -- but it would
further consolidate his position as the most powerful justice
since, well,  Sandra Day O’Connor .  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Cool War: The Future of Global Competition,” is
a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on Twitter at
 @NoahRFeldman .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 