-- Kenny Faces Irish Bank Inquiry Calls as Anglo Tapes Released
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-06-24T13:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/kenny-faces-calls-for-banking-inquiry-as-anglo-tapes-released.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
faced growing calls for an inquiry into the collapse of Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. after the Irish Independent released recordings
of talks between executives as the lender sought a bailout.  The partial transcripts from September 2008 indicate the
then-executives planned to seek an initial 7 billion euros ($9.2
billion) from the central bank because a commitment that size
would make the  authorities  unwilling to let the lender later
fail, the newspaper reported.  Anglo Irish’s strategy was to “pull them in,” John Bowe,
head of  capital markets , told consumer banking head Peter Fitzgerald, according to the newspaper. “You get them to write
a big cheque and they have to keep, they have to support their
money,” the Irish Independent cited him as saying.  The tapes prompted both of the largest opposition political
parties to call for an inquiry into the collapse of the
financial system, which cost the country its economic
sovereignty. Ireland spent about 30 billion euros rescuing
Dublin-based  Anglo Irish , almost the 64 billion euros the state
has committed to bail out the banking industry.  “We need to get to the full truth about the way that bank
was run and the level of knowledge the bank’s executives had
about its true financial position in September 2008,” said
Michael McGrath, finance spokesman of Fianna Fail, the ruling
party at the time of Anglo Irish’s bailout.  ‘Raising Questions’  The tapes “raise questions about the picture Anglo Irish
was painting about its finances at the time” of its rescue,
said Pearse Doherty, finance spokesman for  Sinn Fein , Ireland’s
second-largest opposition party. “This injects momentum into
the need for a full banking inquiry.”  Kenny told reporters in Dublin today that the government is
working on laws to allow such probes in future. Legislation
should be enacted before parliament adjourns for its summer
break, planned before the end of July.  “I understand the rage and the anger of so many people who
have been affected by all of this,” Kenny said. The government
will make a decision on an inquiry in “due course,” he added.  The conversations suggest the executives suspected that the
lender would struggle to repay all of the money provided by the
central bank, the Irish Independent said. Both Bowe and
Fitzgerald denied any wrongdoing today.  “I am not nor have I ever been aware of a strategy or
intention on the part of  Anglo Irish Bank  to mislead the
authorities in relation to the forecasted funding position,”
Fitzgerald said in a statement issued by his lawyer.  Bowe Statement  In a statement to state broadcaster RTE today, Bowe denied
that he was, directly or indirectly, a participant in misleading
the central bank in September 2008. Bowe said the talks with the
central bank focused on getting funding for Anglo Irish to allow
it to continue on an interim basis until conditions stabilized.  “We envisaged the relevant period of time to be a number
of months before the bank would be able to access sufficient
alternative funding,” Bowe said in the statement. He didn’t
respond to two e-mailed requests from Bloomberg for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  