-- Kenya Forecasts Increase in Earnings, Tourist Arrivals This Year
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-06-24T12:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/kenya-forecasts-increase-in-earnings-tourist-arrivals-this-year.html
Tourism revenue in  Kenya , the
country’s second-biggest foreign exchange earner, is forecast to
rise to more than 100 billion shillings (1.2 billion) this year,
Muriithi Ndegwa, head of the tourism authority, said.  East Africa ’s largest economy expects a boost after the
passage of peaceful elections in March eased concerns by
tourists about violence and political instability, Ndegwa,
managing director of the Kenya Tourism Board, said in an
interview today in the capital, Nairobi.  “We expect to surpass the 100 billion shilling mark this
year on increased visitors as a result of the peaceful
elections,” Ndegwa said. Arrivals may rise 10 percent, he said.  Tourism income fell to 96 billion shillings last year from
97.9 billion shillings in 2011, while arrivals were little
changed at 1.78 million. The country, home to wild-game parks
including the Maasai Mara in the southwest and Indian Ocean
beaches, had been targeting 3 million visitors by 2015.  Uhuru Kenyatta was elected president during the March 4
vote. Kenyatta is scheduled to begin trial in November at The
Hague-based  International Criminal Court  on charges of crimes
against humanity for organizing clashes following a disputed
election in Dec. 2007 that left more than 1,100 people dead.
Kenyatta, the former deputy prime minister, denies the charges.  Tourism has also been dented by the threat from al-Shabaab,
which threatened to retaliate for Kenya sending troops into
Somalia in 2011 to fight the militant group.  Travel alerts were issued by nations including the U.S. and
U.K. following the murder and kidnapping of foreign visitors on
the country’s coast and grenade attacks in Nairobi and the
northern region.  Tea is the country’s largest foreign-income earner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  