-- Kerry Calls on Russia to Return Fugitive CIA Contractor Snowden
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-24T11:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/kerry-calls-on-russia-to-return-fugitive-cia-contractor-snowden.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  called
on  Russia  today to help return fugitive Edward Snowden to the
U.S., after the former intelligence contractor who exposed
government surveillance arrived in Moscow en route to a refuge.  “I would urge them to live by the standards of the law,”
Kerry said at a joint press conference in  New Delhi  with Indian
Foreign Minister Salman Khurshid. The U.S. has transferred to
Russia seven prisoners “that they wanted” in the past few
years, Kerry said. Reciprocity in the law “is pretty
important,” he said.  It would be “deeply troubling” if Russia had advance
notice of Snowden’s arrival in Moscow and “notwithstanding
that, they make the decision willfully to ignore that and not
live by the standards of the law,” Kerry said. Snowden has
sought asylum in Ecuador.  Snowden’s presence in Russia, with which the U.S. doesn’t
have an extradition pact, signaled that the Obama administration
may struggle to bring him back a month after he fled and
revealed National Security Agency surveillance of Americans and
foreign citizens. The decision to let Snowden leave  Hong Kong 
also threatened to add to strains with  China  over cyber-espionage discussed at a meeting earlier this month between
President  Barack Obama  and Xi Jinping.  Kerry also took a shot at China today in New Delhi, saying
“it would be very disappointing if he was willfully allowed to
board an airplane” in Hong Kong.  Internet Freedoms  Kerry said Snowden “places himself above the law” and
questioned why he chose China and Russia to help him avoid the
U.S. where he’s wanted on charges of leaking classified
information. “They’re such powerful bastions of Internet
freedom,” Kerry said mockingly of China and Russia. He said he
wondered if Snowden “raised the questions about Internet
freedoms” with China and Russia “since that’s what he seems to
champion.”  The secretary of state said he didn’t know where Snowden is
seeking to go or whether the one-time Central Intelligence
Agency worker was traveling under the passport that the State
Department has revoked. Snowden didn’t board an Aeroflot flight
to  Havana  that left the Russian capital after 2 p.m. today, said
an official at Russia’s state-run carrier who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  The Snowden case threatens to further aggravate U.S.
relations with Russia, which were already strained over the
Syrian war. Kerry may have a chance to meet with his Russian
counterpart,  Sergei Lavrov , to discuss Snowden and the Syrian
conflict early next week. Both men are likely to attend an Asian
ministerial conference in Brunei.  Kerry said he was in touch with the White House about the
Snowden case last night and his deputy,  William Burns , is in
contact with the Russian government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  