-- Brazil President to Meet Protests Leaders on Unrest
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-06-24T19:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/kids-take-to-streets-in-brazil-as-rousseff-tries-to-calm-revolt.html
Brazil ’s President Dilma Rousseff is
meeting with protesters, mayors and governors today to discuss
measures in response to a two-week-long street clamor for
improved transport and public services and against corruption.  Rousseff is receiving leaders of the Free Fare Movement
before meeting with state and city authorities, according to her
agenda. Brazil’s largest street marches in two decades are
scheduled to continue this week, with protesters today blocking
roads near the southern port of Santos. Yesterday, families
staged protests in Brasilia, Sao Paulo and  Rio de Janeiro ,
painting Brazil’s flag and signing a petition for authorities to
do more for children.  “In Brazil demonstrations are associated with chaos,”
said Raquel Fuzaro, a 41-year lawyer and mother of two who
helped organize the event in Brasilia via social media sites.
“We came with our children to show that this is a peaceful
movement.”  Two women were killed during a protest this morning in the
town of Cristalina, near Brasilia, according to the federal
highway police. The two victims were occupying a highway just
past 7:00 a.m. local time when they were hit, bringing the total
number of protests deaths nationwide to four. The driver of the
vehicle has not yet been found, according to the police.  Lower Fares  The two women were among a group of roughly 400
demonstrators calling for improvements including better street
lighting and recognition of land ownership, newspaper Folha de
Sao Paulo reported. Protesters demanding lower bus fares today
also blocked the access road to the port of Santos, the
country’s biggest, according to Globo’s news portal G1.  The weekend’s biggest disturbance was in  Belo Horizonte ,
where police had to restrain tens of thousands of demonstrators
who massed outside the stadium hosting a Confederations Cup
match between Mexico and  Japan . Police estimate over 5,000
protested in  Salvador , where Brazil played  Italy . Demonstrators
also camped outside the Rio beach-front apartment of state
governor Sergio Cabral.  While 40 million people emerged from poverty over the past
decade, rising inflation and discontent over public services
contributed to an eight percentage point fall in Rousseff’s
approval rating to 71 percent in June from March, according to a
poll commissioned by the National Industry Confederation. The
survey of 2,002 people from June 8-11 had a margin of error of
two percentage points.  Missed Estimates  Brazil’s stocks, bonds and currency are being battered by
an  emerging markets  sell-off after economic growth missed
estimates made by analysts for a fifth straight time in the
first quarter. The world’s biggest emerging market in 2012 after
 China  posted its second-worst economic performance in 13 years
while  inflation  this month breached the 6.5 percent upper limit
of the government target range.  The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  stock index fell 1.5 percent at 3:58 p.m. and
was down 24 percent this year, the worst performer among 18
major equity markets. The real gained 0.6 percent.  In her first public appearance in three days, Rousseff on
June 21 vowed to harness the student-led movement’s energy for
faster and more equitable development. A former member of the
Marxist underground that battled the 1964-1985 military
dictatorship, she also urged Brazilians to refrain from violence
that she said embarrasses the nation.  “If we let violence take us off our path, we will not only
be wasting a big historic opportunity, but also will be running
the risk of losing a lot,” Rousseff said in nationally
televised address.  Protest Trigger  Demonstrators now face the challenge of sustaining their
momentum after Rio and  Sao Paulo  revoked a 20 centavos (9 cent)
bus fare increase that first triggered the unrest three weeks
ago.  In a sign of how much the movement has since grown,
protesters this weekend fielded a range of grievances, from
teachers marching for better pay to gay-rights activists
opposing a bill to allow medical treatment for homosexuality. In
Rio, demonstrators lined up hundreds of soccer balls on the
beach to draw attention to the nation’s murder victims.  The protests come as Brazil hosts the two-week
Confederations Cup, a test run for next year’s World Cup that
has become a symbol to many protesters of misplaced priorities
in a country where 21 percent of the population still lives
below the poverty line.  Spending Defended  Rousseff, 65, has defended the spending on stadiums, saying
it will improve public infrastructure and the investments will
stimulate economic growth. In her address to the nation, she
called on her compatriots to organize a peaceful  World Cup  and
show visitors the same hospitality and respect that Brazil’s
national squad and citizens have received around the world for
decades.  The appeal to nation’s love of soccer may not win over
those in the streets. A  poll  among demonstrators in Sao Paulo by
Datafolha found that only 10 percent would support Rousseff if
she seeks re-election next year.  The demonstrators’ preferred choice is Supreme Court Chief
Justice Joaquim Barbosa, who has won popular acclaim for
presiding over a landmark corruption case against members of the
ruling Workers’ Party. The nation’s first black chief justice
had 30 percent support in the Datafolha poll, which had a margin
of error of plus or minus four percentage points. An additional
27 percent said they’d cast blank ballots or nullify their
votes.  Rousseff “ignored what the protests were about,” Rogerio
Redondo, a 58-year-old engineer, said at a march along one of
Sao Paulo’s main avenues on June 22. “She was too concerned
about justifying the World Cup when she could have announced an
effort to investigate whether there’s been corruption. She
missed out on a big opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  