-- Kocherlakota Says Fed Policy Guidance Is ‘Insufficient’
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-06-24T18:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/kocherlakota-says-guidance-on-fed-policy-has-been-insufficient-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota , who doesn’t vote on monetary
policy this year, said the central bank needs to set clearer
guideposts for the outlook for record stimulus and commit to
press on with monthly bond purchases at least until unemployment
falls below 7 percent.  “The committee’s communications have provided insufficient
detail about how its policy strategy will play out when the
recovery is more advanced,” Kocherlakota said in a statement
today released by the  Minneapolis Fed .  Stocks and bonds have fallen since Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said at a June 19 press conference that the Fed may begin to
trim its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases this year and
end the buying in mid-2014 if the economy achieves the
sustainable growth that policy makers have sought since the
recession ended in 2009.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined about 5
percent since June 18, the day before the  Federal Open Market
Committee (FDTR)  said it will continue the current pace of bond
purchase known as quantitative easing. The  S&P 500 Index  fell
1.1 percent to 1,574.99 at 1:48 p.m. in  New York , while the
yield on the 10-year Treasury rose 0.02 percentage point to 2.6
percent, an increase from 2.19 percent on June 18.  The market’s reaction to the Fed’s statement “so far is
not a cause for concern,” Kocherlakota said in a phone call
with reporters after releasing his statement. If yields continue
to stay higher, “that would be restrictive to economic
conditions” and suppress both prices and employment.  Policy Vote  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy and
Kocherlakota is next scheduled to vote in 2014. Presidents do
not typically issue statements and hold press briefings reacting
to the FOMC statement, although they do expand on their views in
speeches and in media interviews.  “It is a little unusual for a non-voting member to put out
a statement,” said  Michael Hanson , senior U.S. economist for
Bank of America Corp. in New York. “In these times of greater
transparency I suppose it’s not all that impossible to
imagine.”  Fed officials attempting to clarify the Fed’s intent are
“challenged between finding simple ways to communicate with the
markets and comprehensive ways to communicate with the
markets,” said Hanson, a former Fed economist.  Kocherlakota in 2011 voted against two decisions by the
FOMC, opposing actions to add stimulus. He joined in his dissent
with Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  and the Dallas
Fed’s  Richard Fisher , two of the most outspoken critics within
the Fed of the central bank’s bond purchases.  Raise Rates  In May 2012 Kocherlakota said the Fed may need to raise
 interest rates  by the end of 2012. By September, his views
changed and he said the central bank was providing insufficient
accommodation to push the economy toward recovery. He attributed
his shift to declining inflation and to research that suggested
unemployment in the U.S. was driven by economic weakness and not
structural changes in the economy.  Kocherlakota said today a phrase in the fifth paragraph of
the FOMC statement is especially important: “the Committee
expects that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy
will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset
purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens.”  “We have to bring that forward and hammer it every time we
talk about policy,” Kocherlakota said to reporters.  Bond Buying  Kocherlakota said today the end of bond buying should be
tied to a threshold for the  unemployment rate .  “The committee should continue to buy assets at least
until the unemployment rate has fallen below 7 percent,” he
said. The purchases should continue “as long as the medium-term
outlook for the inflation rate remains below 2.5 percent and
longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored,” he
said.  Kocherlakota declined today to give a timetable for
trimming monthly purchases, saying only “you could easily see
tapering as you come in on that 7 percent marker” for
unemployment.  Kocherlakota has repeatedly said the Fed should use better
communications to provide more stimulus to the economy. He
repeated his call for the central bank’s  target interest rate  to
remain near zero at least until unemployment has fallen below
5.5 percent. The FOMC has pledged to keep the rate low until
unemployment reaches 6.5 percent.  “The committee has not described how it will set its fed
funds rate target when the unemployment rate has fallen below
6.5 percent but remains above 5.5 percent, a period of time that
I currently expect to last about two years,” Kocherlakota said.
“Additional clarity about future policy actions will tend to
push downward on a variety of market interest rates and provide
needed current stimulus to the economy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  