-- N.J. Democrats in Disarray as Christie Fractures Majority
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-06-24T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/n-j-democrats-in-disarray-as-christie-fractures-majority.html
President  Barack Obama  hugged Chris Christie. Bill Clinton shook his hand. Thirty-one Democrats
endorsed the Republican New Jersey governor’s re-election bid.  The New Jersey  Democratic Party , meanwhile, has squabbled
over its leadership, given way on worker pensions and teacher
tenure and split on issues from  gun control  to gay marriage. Its
gubernatorial candidate trails by 30 percentage points.  Christie, 50, has the opposition in disarray as he seeks a
second term in November -- and a possible 2016 White House run.  “He has kind of devastated the Democrats in New Jersey,”
said Matt Hale, who teaches politics at  Seton Hall  University in
South Orange.  Christie set a process for replacing deceased U.S. Senator
 Frank Lautenberg  that forces a four-way Democratic primary and
may stunt party turnout in the November general election. A
Christie landslide might help his party pick up legislative
seats and burnish the governor’s presidential qualifications.  The first Republican elected to the governorship since
1997, Christie leads his Democratic challenger, state Senator
Barbara Buono, 59 percent to 29 percent, according to a June 10
 poll  by  Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,  Connecticut . He enjoys
approval from about two-thirds of voters after his response to
 Hurricane Sandy , which devastated parts of the state Oct. 29.  Odd Bedfellows  In Sandy’s aftermath, Christie forged a relationship with
Obama that angered some Republicans. This month, he appeared
with Clinton at a Chicago conference to talk with the Democratic
former president about the storm.  While New Jersey voters may respond well to Christie’s
embrace of bipartisanship, voters in a 2016 Republican
presidential primary may not, said Nathan Gonzalez, deputy
editor of The Rothenberg Report, a Washington-based newsletter.  “When he gets to the Republican nominating process, he’s
going to get as far away as he can from  Bill Clinton  and Barack
Obama,” said Democratic lobbyist Steven Elmendorf of
 Washington , who’s a native of Summit, New Jersey. “He appears
to be an effective governor who works with the president. But
it’s going to hurt him in the Republican primary because they
don’t want him to work with the president.”  Recognizing Reality  New Jersey voters haven’t elected a Republican to the
Senate since 1972 and backed Democrats in the past six
presidential contests. Democrats control the legislature and
outnumber Republicans by more than 700,000 voters. Independents
outnumber members of both parties and compose 48 percent of the
state’s electorate.  Buono, a 59-year-old Metuchen lawyer, became her party’s
candidate after more popular Democrats, including Newark Mayor
 Cory Booker , decided not to challenge Christie.  She remains unknown to more than half of voters and has
$2.6 million for her campaign, less than half of Christie’s $6.5
million.  Ahead of the November election, when all 120 legislative
seats are also up for grabs, Democratic lawmakers have been slow
to stand with Buono. Those who endorsed Christie say supporting
him is their best move because he’s likely to win.  Essex County Executive Joseph DiVincenzo, one of the
state’s most influential Democrats, endorsed Christie this
month. He was joined by more than a dozen other officials and
community leaders from Essex County, where Democrats outnumber
Republicans almost five-to-one. Four years ago, Christie
received only 27 percent of the vote there.  “He embraced President Obama a week before the election
and he told his party it’s about  New Jersey ,” DiVincenzo said
at the announcement. “What he’s shown is a willingness to work
across the aisle.”  Reactive Majority  Christie has won legislative approval to overhaul tenure
and pensions, considered rights by public-employee unions that
typically support Democrats. He succeeded after forging
alliances with prominent Democrats, including DiVincenzo, Booker
and southern New Jersey party leader George Norcross.  “The governor’s political skills have kept Democrats
largely on their heels,” said Ben Dworkin, director of the
Rebovich Institute of New Jersey Politics at  Rider University  in
Lawrenceville.  While Christie has scored political victories, reaction to
his leadership in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market has
been mixed.  Asking Less  Investors demand less in 2013 to buy New Jersey bonds.
Yields on 10-year debt sold by the state and its localities were
0.40 percentage point more than comparable top-rated municipal
debt on June 19. That’s down from 0.54 percentage point on Dec.
31, 2012.  Still, that penalty has widened by 0.05 percentage point
since Christie was sworn in on Jan. 19, 2010.  New Jersey, which Standard & Poor’s rates AA-, three steps
below top-graded municipals, has had a negative outlook from the
company since September because of concerns about Christie’s
budget forecasts.  His administration was forced to lower revenue estimates
for this fiscal year after taxes came in lower than forecast.
For the 10 months ended April 30, collections are 0.2 percent
above revised projections, according to the state’s Treasury
Department.  With a Republican governor, Democratic lawmakers have been
unable to increase income taxes on millionaires, legalize gay
marriage or increase budgets. Last week they approved Christie’s
$32.9 billion spending plan for the year that begins July 1 with
few changes.  They did so after months of criticizing it.  Big Obstacle  Democrats, who control the Senate 24-16 and the Assembly
48-32, have disagreed over how to get around Christie. He vetoed
a gay-marriage bill in 2012. Some lawmakers argued for putting
the question to a referendum while others wanted to sway
Republicans so they had enough votes for an override.  Neither effort succeeded.  There are a few areas in which Democrats have stood in
Christie’s way. They blocked his tax cuts, and attempts to put
more Republicans on the state  Supreme Court .  Senate Minority Leader Tom Kean, a Westfield Republican,
said his party may pick up five Senate seats in November with
the governor’s help, enough to give them a majority.  Doing so won’t be easy, even with Christie’s help. Voters
prefer generic Democrats over Republicans in the legislature by
16 percentage points, a June 17 Rutgers-Eagleton poll found.  Charismatic Bulldozer  “If you look at the most recent polling about New
Jerseyans’ attitudes toward a host of different issues, I’d say
on the whole we’re still a pretty blue state -- but we like
 Chris Christie ,” Seton Hall’s Hale said. “Yes, Christie can be
a bully and he can pick on people and all that, but that comes
across as someone who is just figuring out how to get stuff
done, and that’s a very appealing message.”  Senate President Stephen Sweeney, a West Deptford Democrat,
blamed the party’s struggle on its size, not on Christie. Under
Christie’s predecessor,  Jon Corzine , Democrats splintered over
pensions and taxes, and had a week-long government shutdown
after lawmakers resisted Corzine’s call for a sales-tax
increase.  “It’s just being in the majority,” Sweeney said. “We
fought with Corzine on a regular basis. It’s just more apparent
when you have a Republican governor.”  “It would be kind of scary if we all agreed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  