-- Nadal Handed Earliest Major Loss by Darcis at Wimbledon
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-24T19:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/nadal-handed-earliest-major-loss-by-darcis-at-wimbledon.html
French Open champion  Rafael Nadal 
was knocked out of the opening round of Wimbledon in straight
sets by Steve Darcis, his earliest loss in a Grand Slam event.  Darcis beat the fifth-seeded Spaniard, 7-6 (7-4), 7-6
(10-8), 6-4 on Court 1 at the All England Club in London. The
Belgian has now won three of the eight top-tier matches he’s
played in 2013.  Darcis, ranked 135th on the ATP World Tour, closed the
match with his 13th ace, while Nadal had six. Darcis produced 53
winners, compared with 32 for Nadal. Both men made 24 unforced
errors.  “Nobody was expecting my win today,” Darcis told the
British Broadcasting Corp. “Rafa didn’t play his best tennis
today. I don’t know what to say right now, I am really happy.”  The loss opens up the men’s draw for second-seeded  Andy Murray  and defending champion  Roger Federer , who both advanced
on the opening day of the tournament. In the women’s draw,
second seed Victoria Azarenka and 2004 winner  Maria Sharapova 
also advanced, while fifth seed Sara Errani was upset by Monica
Puig of Puerto Rico.  Nadal, a two-time champion at the All England Club, also
struggled on the London grass courts last year, when he lost in
the second round to then 100th-ranked Lukas Rosol of the  Czech
Republic . The 27-year-old Nadal left the men’s tour for seven
months after that defeat to recover from a partially torn
patella tendon and inflammation in his left knee. The injury
forced him to miss the London Olympics, the  U.S. Open  and the
Australian Open.  Fitness Silence  The Spaniard wouldn’t discuss his fitness today after the
loss.  “I am confident that I will have a good recovery and be
ready for the next tournaments,” Nadal told reporters. “I
played much more than what I dreamed before here after the
injury. So that’s a fantastic and very positive thing for me. I
know the grass is a difficult surface for the way that I need to
play.”  Since his comeback to the men’s tour in February, Nadal has
won seven titles, including a record eighth French Open
championship two weeks ago at  Roland Garros  in Paris. Nadal had
entered Wimbledon not having played a warm-up on grass, in order
to rest his knees.  Low Rankings  Darcis had lost in the first round in 12 of 18 previous
Grand Slam appearances, including this year’s French Open. His
best performance at Wimbledon came in 2009, when he also reached
the second round. His best grass-court result came in Eastbourne
last year, when he reached the semifinals.  After dropping the first set, Nadal served for the second
set at 6-5. A forehand passing set up two break points for
Darcis, who converted as Nadal dumped a backhand into the net.
Darcis raced to a 4-2 lead in the tie-break as Nadal made
backhand and forehand errors and struggled with his footing on
the new grass.  Darcis set up three set points with a service winner, only
to squander all of them with unforced errors. A fourth set point
was lost with a backhand in the net. Nadal failed to take a set
point of his own at 8-7 on a netted backhand, and Darcis took a
two-set lead when a Nadal forehand sailed over the baseline.  Nadal continued to struggle in the third set, dropping
serve early as he occasionally pulled up his leg and seemed to
have trouble changing direction. Serving for the biggest win of
his life at 5-4, Darcis got to two match points as Nadal hit a
forehand wide, and won the match with an ace.  ‘Fantastic Match’  “He played a fantastic match,” Nadal said. “Everything
that I will say today about my knee is an excuse, and I don’t
like to put any excuse when I’m losing a match like I lost
today.”  Murray defeated Germany’s Benjamin Becker, 6-4, 6-3, 6-2 to
win his eighth straight opening-round match at Wimbledon. He’s
trying to become the first British man since  Fred Perry  in 1936
to win at the All England Club.  Federer, 31, beat  Victor Hanescu  of Romania 6-3, 6-2, 6-0.
Last year, the Swiss right-hander tied the record of seven
titles held by  William Renshaw  and  Pete Sampras  by defeating
Murray in the final.  “I enjoyed myself,” Federer said. “I’m happy. It was a
great first round for me. I don’t know how much better I could
have played. It was cold, and winning the first round always
relieves the pressure a bit.”  Tsonga Wins  Sixth seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France beat Belgium’s
David Goffin in three sets, and 10th-seeded Marin Cilic of
Croatia eased past Cyprus’s  Marcos Baghdatis .  Viktor Troicki 
defeated fellow Serb Janko Tipsarevic, the 14th seed, in three
sets.  Lleyton Hewitt , the champion 11 years ago, beat
Switzerland’s  Stanislas Wawrinka , the No. 11 seed, in straight
sets. The 32-year-old Australian had reached the semifinals of
grass-court warmup Queen’s shortly before Wimbledon.  Rosol lost his opening-round match to Germany’s Julian
Reister in five sets. American  John Isner  defeated Evgeny
Donskoy of Russia 6-1, 7-6 (7-5), 7-6 (7-3), while  Mikhail Youzhny , a Russian seeded 20th, beat  Robin Haase  of the
Netherlands 6-4, 7-5, 7-5.  Women’s Results  Women’s second seed  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus overcame a
knee injury to defeat Portugal’s Maria Joao Koehler 6-1, 6-2.
Azarenka slipped on the court while leading 1-0 in the second
set and needed treatment on the side of the court. Struggling to
plant and push off with her left leg, Azarenka grimaced when she
hit shots.  “It was such a shock, I slipped, I don’t know what
happened out there,” Azarenka said. “It was very emotional, I
couldn’t believe what happened.”  Sharapova, the third seed from Russia, beat Kristina
Mladenovic of France 7-6 (7-5), 6-3.  “The first match is always difficult on the grass and my
opponent played really well,” Sharapova said. “She has a big
game and a big serve as well.”  Puig, a 19-year-old playing in her first Wimbledon, beat
Errani, the 2012 French Open runner-up, 6-3, 6-2, winning on her
seventh match point. Errani pulled out of the grass-court warmup
event in Eastbourne with a right adductor strain. Her best
results at Wimbledon were third-round losses in 2010 and last
year.  Ana Ivanovic, the 12th seed from Serbia, defeated qualifier
Virginie Razzano of France 7-6 (7-1), 6-0. Italy’s Flavia Pennetta beat Britain’s Elena Baltacha 6-4, 6-1.  Petra Kvitova, the 2011 champion, beat Coco Vandeweghe of
the U.S. in three sets. Ninth seed  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark
defeated Estrella Cabeza Candela of Spain, while Sloane Stephens
defeated fellow American Jamie Hampton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  