-- Nadal Exit Opens Up Wimbledon Draw for Federer and Murray
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-24T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/nadal-exit-opens-up-wimbledon-draw-for-federer-and-murray.html
Rafael Nadal ’s earliest exit from a
Grand Slam event opened up the Wimbledon draw for defending
champion Roger Federer and  U.S. Open  winner  Andy Murray .  Nadal, the fifth seed from Spain and a two-time champion at
the All England Club, was upset yesterday by Steve Darcis of
Belgium 7-6 (7-4), 7-6 (10-8), 6-4.  Two weeks after winning a record eighth French Open
championship on the slow red clay courts at  Roland Garros  in
Paris, Nadal lost on the quicker grass courts in London to a
player ranked 135th in the world who has only won three matches
this year on the world’s top men’s tennis tour. Nadal lost in
the second round of Wimbledon last year and left the sport for
seven months with an injured knee. He wasn’t blaming his body
this time.  “I am not going to talk about my knee,” Nadal said in a
news conference. “Only thing that can say today is congratulate
Steve Darcis. He played a fantastic match. Everything that I
will say about my knee is an excuse, and I don’t like to put any
excuse when I’m losing a match.”  Top-seeded Novak Djokovic of Serbia plays Germany’s  Florian Mayer  in the first round today, while fourth seed  David Ferrer 
of Spain takes on Martin Alund of Argentina. Women’s No. 1 seed
 Serena Williams  will meet Mandy Minella of Luxembourg and fourth
seed Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland plays Yvonne Meusburger of
Austria. China’s Li Na takes on Michaella Krajicek of the
Netherlands.  Nadal Loss  Nadal was seeded fifth after slipping in the rankings
because of his time away from the tour, putting him in line to
play Federer, a seven-time Wimbledon champion from Switzerland,
and Murray, last year’s tournament runner-up from Britain.  The third-seeded Federer would have played Nadal in the
quarterfinals, after losing to him in the 2008 championship
match. The second-seeded Murray has lost three times to the
Spaniard on the London lawns.  “It’s a surprising loss,” Murray told reporters after he
eased into the second round with a 6-4, 6-3, 6-2 win over
Germany’s Benjamin Becker.  Murray is trying to become the first British man since  Fred Perry  in 1936 to win the singles title at the All England Club.
He didn’t want to look ahead into the second week now that Nadal
is gone.  ‘Irrelevant Now’  “It’s pretty irrelevant right now; I have to win four more
matches before that would even become something to think
about,” he said. “But as a fan of tennis, it’s probably
disappointing that he’s out as he’s a fun guy to watch. He
brings a lot to the tournaments he plays in.”  Federer, 31, beat  Victor Hanescu  of Romania 6-3, 6-2, 6-0.
Last year, the Swiss right-hander tied the record of seven
Wimbledon titles held by  William Renshaw  and  Pete Sampras .  “I’m happy that things went well out there,” Federer
said. “In the first round, we’ve seen the surprise losses
happen too often.”  Second seed  Victoria Azarenka  and 2004 winner  Maria Sharapova  advanced in the women’s draw yesterday, while fifth
seed Sara Errani was upset by Monica Puig of Puerto Rico.  Sharapova, the third seed from Russia, beat Kristina
Mladenovic of France 7-6 (7-5), 6-3.  Azarenka overcame a second-set fall and treatment on her
knee i to beat Portugal’s Maria Joao Koehler 6-1, 6-2. Puig, a
19-year-old playing in her first Wimbledon, beat Errani, the
2012 French Open runner-up, 6-3, 6-2.  Match Practice?  Darcis, 29, said his Wimbledon preparation helped him 
against Nadal.  “I served very good,” said Darcis, who produced 13 aces
to Nadal’s six. “I could use a lot of slice. And I think he
didn’t like it so much. Of course, he didn’t play his best
tennis. But I knew it is the first match on grass for him. Me, I
played already four. So I think it helped me.”  Playing on grass, where the balls don’t bounce as high as
on red clay, takes some adjustment, Nadal said.  “It’s probably the toughest surface for me today, because
I had to move and I have to play in a lower position than in the
rest of the surfaces,” said Nadal, who had 32 winners while
Darcis produced 53.  Nadal also struggled on the London grass courts last year,
when he was eliminated by then 100th-ranked Lukas Rosol of the
 Czech Republic . The 27-year-old Spaniard took time then to
recover from a partially torn patella tendon and inflammation in
his left knee, missing the London Olympics, the U.S. Open and
the Australian Open.  Earliest Exit  The Spaniard wouldn’t discuss his fitness after this loss,
the first time he’s failed to reach at least the second round at
one of the sport’s four major events.  “I am confident that I will have a good recovery and be
ready for the next tournaments,” Nadal said. “I played much
more than what I dreamed before here after the injury. So that’s
a fantastic and very positive thing for me.”  Nadal has won seven titles since his comeback to the ATP
World Tour in February,. He entered Wimbledon not having played
a warm-up on grass, in order to rest his knees.  Down two sets, Nadal dropped serve early in the third,
occasionally pulling up his leg and seeming to have trouble
changing direction.  Down 2-4, Nadal changed tactics, trying to shorten the
points. Chasing a drop shot at 3-4 down, Nadal limped as he run
toward the net, and ended up losing the point. Nadal failed to
get the break back for 4-4, dumping yet another backhand into
the net on break point. Serving for the biggest win of his life
at 5-4, Darcis got to two match points when Nadal hit a forehand
wide, and won the match with an ace.  Calm, Tired  “At the end physically I started to feel a little bit
tired,” said Darcis, never past the second round of Wimbledon.
“Luckily I could serve good and stay very calm. I think it was
the key.”  Sixth seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France beat Belgium’s
David Goffin in three sets, and 10th-seeded Marin Cilic of
Croatia eased past Cyprus’s  Marcos Baghdatis .  Viktor Troicki 
defeated fellow Serb Janko Tipsarevic, the 14th seed, in three
sets.  Rosol lost his opening-round match to Germany’s Julian
Reister in five sets. American  John Isner  defeated Evgeny
Donskoy of Russia 6-1, 7-6 (7-5), 7-6 (7-3), while  Mikhail Youzhny , a Russian seeded 20th, beat  Robin Haase  of the
Netherlands 6-4, 7-5, 7-5.  Women’s Matches  Ana Ivanovic, the 12th seed from Serbia, defeated qualifier
Virginie Razzano of France 7-6 (7-1), 6-0. Italy’s Flavia Pennetta beat Britain’s Elena Baltacha 6-4, 6-1.  Petra Kvitova, the champion two years ago from the Czech
Republic, beat Coco Vandeweghe of the U.S. in three sets while
12th seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark moved to the second
round with a straight-set win over Spain’s Estrella Cabeza
Candella. No.18 seed Sloane Stephens, a semifinalist at the
Australian Open, beat fellow American Jamie Hampton in straight
sets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  