-- NFL in Talks With U.S. to Pitch Health Law to Young Fans
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-24T17:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/nfl-in-talks-with-u-s-to-pitch-health-law-to-young-fans.html
The Obama administration is talking
with officials from the National Football League and other
professional sports to help promote the U.S. health law to young
adults, a prime target for the government’s outreach efforts.  Healthy young men, who often avoid signing up for insurance
unless it’s offered by an employer, are needed as customers for
the new insurance exchanges created under the Affordable Care
Act to help health plans balance the risk of covering older and
sicker Americans.  The Obama administration has been under fire for not doing
enough to promote the law as the deadline looms for people to
start signing up for insurance through the online exchanges
beginning on Oct. 1, just 100 days away. Today, U.S. officials
also opened a hotline for questions about the law, and activated
a website that outlines its provisions.  “The most daunting aspect is that people still don’t know
enough about what’s going to change in the law and don’t have
enough information, still have some misinformation,” Kathleen Sebelius, the U.S. health secretary, said today in a briefing
for reporters. “Our challenge is getting the right information
to the right people so they make good choices for themselves and
their families.”  The NFL has been “very actively and enthusiastically
engaged” in discussions about advertising and other ways to
promote the Affordable Care Act, she said.  Greg Aiello, an NFL
spokesman, declined to comment.  2.6 Million Healthy  Insurance coverage purchased through the exchanges, which
in some cases will be subsidized, takes effect January 1. The
administration estimates it needs to convince about 2.6 million
young, healthy people to sign up for exchange coverage to
balance the risk presented by millions of older or sicker people
who may flock to the marketplaces.  The Congressional Budget Office expects about 7 million
people to obtain insurance through the services next year,
rising to 24 million by 2023.  The hotline, at 1-800-318-2596, and a redesigned government
website at healthcare.gov are part of an Obama Administration
push to better educate Americans about a law that continues to
mystify, according to recent surveys. The Kaiser Family
Foundation said in April that 42 percent of people it surveyed
weren’t sure the law was still on the books.  For now, the services “will help consumers prepare for the
new coverage opportunities coming later this year,”  Marilyn Tavenner , the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, said in a statement. Tavenner’s agency
supervises the website and call-in line.  The telephone service asks callers to provide their home
state and then offers information on how the exchange works and
what information will be required to enroll in plans. A live
representative can be reached through the automated menu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  