-- Nordic Power Posts Record Gain as Hydro Reserves Seen Shrinking
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-06-24T14:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/nordic-power-posts-record-gain-as-hydro-reserves-seen-shrinking.html
Nordic electricity for delivery in
July through September had its biggest gain on record after
forecasts for drier weather in the region pointed to a decrease
in hydropower supplies.  Power for next quarter gained as much as 4.4 percent, the
most since the contract began trading in January 2011, to 31
euros ($40.54) a megawatt-hour and closed at 30.70 euros as of
3:29 p.m. on Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s energy exchange in Oslo.
The price rebounded from a June 21 record low of 29.30 euros.  Nordic hydropower reserves are poised to be 4.88 terawatt-hours below the seasonal average in two weeks, more than triple
the 1.16 terawatt-hour deficit forecast on June 21, according to
Markedskraft data on Bloomberg. Shrinking supplies tend to
underpin prices in the Nordic area, which meets more than half
of electricity use by running water through turbines.  “All traders seem to have been short-positioned, expecting
prices to fall further after a prolonged period of rain, but
then the weather forecasts bucked, causing people to reverse
their positions and squeeze into the same buying window,” Anton Holton, head of trading at utility company Gaevle Energi AB,
said today by phone from Gaevle,  Sweden . “Compounding the price
rise is the fact that the contract dropped to a record low on
June 21, which contributes to a natural upward correction.”  Power for delivery around the clock tomorrow will cost an
average 33.69 euros a megawatt-hour, 7.3 percent more than
yesterday’s price for today, according to  data  form the Nord
Pool Spot AS exchange in Oslo. That’s more than the financial
contract for tomorrow, which closed at 32.35 euros. Forward
contracts frequently track movements in prompt prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  