-- Novatek Readies More LNG Sales After China Accord on Yamal Plant
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-06-24T14:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/novatek-readies-more-lng-sales-after-china-accord-on-yamal-plant.html
OAO Novatek (NVTK)  plans to secure more
deals to supply liquefied natural gas to  Asia  this year after
signing an accord with  China  last week, bolstering its challenge
to  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ’s export monopoly.  Novatek agreed after less than four months of talks to sell
LNG to China National Petroleum Corp. at a price linked to oil,
according to Chief Executive Officer Leonid Mikhelson, who with
fellow billionaire  Gennady Timchenko , a co-founder of Gunvor
Group, controls the Tarko-Sale, Siberia-based company.  Now limited to Russia’s domestic market, Novatek is
awaiting the government’s decision on loosening Gazprom’s
control over LNG shipments abroad. President  Vladimir Putin 
favors partial liberalization of gas exports to boost energy
supplies to Asia, where demand is growing faster than in Europe,
which Gazprom supplies by pipelines.  “There may be more such agreements this year,” Mikhelson
said in a joint interview with Interfax in  St. Petersburg  on
June 21. “Also Asian companies.”  Gazprom, which supplies a quarter of Europe’s gas, has
spent a decade discussing supplies with CNPC via a pipeline
without reaching a deal because of differences on prices. The
world’s biggest producer of the fuel is searching for new
markets as European demand slows.  Presidential Support  “The government has heard our arguments and if the
president discusses it in a speech, then I think the issue will
be decided,” Mikhelson said, referring to Putin’s address to
the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum on June 21.  Novatek invited CNPC to acquire 20 percent of the planned
$20 billion Yamal LNG project and agreed to supply at least 3
million tons of the chilled fuel by tanker to the Beijing-based
company. CNPC’s entry will be completed in the next three
months, and a long-term supply contract will be signed,
Mikhelson said. The price will be open to periodic review, he
said.  CNPC will pay “a little more” than  Total SA (FP) , which bought
20 percent in Yamal LNG for $800 million and may pay an
additional $500 million depending on the final capital
expenditure. CNPC will compensate for investments made since the
creation of the joint venture, in proportion to its stake,
Mikhelson said.  Yamal Financing  The CNPC deal creates “favorable conditions” for securing
external financing of the Yamal LNG project, Mikhelson said.
Novatek expects a decision on LNG export rights to be made this
year, which will open the way to raise  project financing  in the
first half of 2014, he said.  Everything will be ready for a final  investment decision  on
Yamal LNG at the end of September or beginning of October, after
talks with contractors and equipment supplies, the executive
said.  While some Yamal LNG volumes may flow to Europe when the
project starts at the end of 2016, Novatek is targeting China,
where, according to the  International Energy Agency , demand rose
13 percent last year. Europe’s gas use fell 1.6 percent.  Demand in China will grow by 12 percent a year over the
next five years as it absorbs one-third of new LNG supplies
worldwide over that period, the IEA said in its Medium-Term Gas
Market Report on June 20.  Detailed talks with CNPC started after February, when
Mikhelson traveled to China at that time to hold talks with
potential Yamal LNG partners and buyers.  Novatek is figuring out how much LNG it can sell in Indian,
Chinese and other Asian markets, Mikhelson said. “Our vision is
that there will be a little more for the Chinese market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  