-- Obama’s Recess Appointments Draw Supreme Court Scrutiny
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-06-24T19:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/obama-s-recess-appointments-draw-supreme-court-scrutiny.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  will decide
whether President  Barack Obama  had authority to appoint members
of the federal labor board without Senate confirmation, in a
constitutional clash that may undercut his regulatory agenda.  The case, which the court will consider in its 2013-14
term, may affect about 1,000 decisions and orders issued by the
National Labor Relations Board since January 2012. It will also
have ramifications for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
the watchdog agency created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank law. Bureau
director  Richard Cordray  was appointed by Obama on the same day
he installed the NLRB officials.  The central question is whether the Senate was in recess
when Obama made the NLRB appointments. A federal appeals court
said the president’s constitutional power to appoint officials
during Senate recesses applies only between Congress’s two-year
sessions. The NLRB has continued to issue rulings since the
court’s decision.  The appointments case has the potential to “really make
the White House look very foolish” because the administration
has maintained business as usual regarding labor board actions,
 Gary Chaison , a labor-relations professor at  Clark University  in
Worcester,  Massachusetts , said in a phone interview. “This has
major implications for the administration and the NLRB and the
 labor movement  as well,” he said.  Labor Defeat  If the justices agree that the recess appointments were
invalid, the ruling would call into question all the NLRB
decisions taken since January 2012, Chaison said. A decision
that declares the appointments invalid would be a defeat for the
labor movement, which is buoyed by a labor-friendly board, he
said. The Supreme Court may also rule on the authority of the
president to make appointments during pro-forma session of the
Senate.  “We are confident that the president’s authority to make
recess appointments will be upheld by the courts,” White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  said.  At issue, he said, is “the
president having the authority that all of his predecessors have
had.”  The NLRB didn’t have a comment on the court’s decision,
agency spokesman Gregory King said in a phone interview.
Officials from the the consumer financial bureau didn’t respond
to requests for comment on the court’s decision to consider the
case.  The case stems from a 2011-12 dispute between Obama and
 congressional Republicans . Facing the prospect that he would
make appointments during Congress’s holiday break, House and
Senate Republicans refused to formally adjourn. The Senate held
“pro forma” sessions that sometimes involved a single
senator’s brief appearance in the chamber every third day.  Chamber Opposition  Obama, saying lawmakers were in recess, made the
appointments of Sharon Block,  Terence Flynn  and  Richard Griffin 
on Jan. 4, 2012.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is helping represent the
company challenging the appointments, soft-drink bottler Noel
Canning Corp. of Yakima,  Washington . Congressional Republicans
are also opposing the appointments.  A three-member NLRB last year approved findings that Noel
Canning had committed an unfair labor practice by refusing to
implement an agreement it had reached with the union
representing its employees.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the D.C. Circuit unanimously
ruled that Obama’s NLRB appointments were invalid because the
Senate wasn’t in recess at the time. The three-judge panel of
Republican appointees said the recess-appointment power applies
only after a two-year congressional session ends and before the
next one begins, and not during breaks within a session.  Uncertainty ‘Cloud’  “We warned last year that by appointing these members to
the NLRB in such a controversial fashion, a cloud of uncertainty
covered the agency and its work,”  Thomas Donohue , president of
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which challenged the appointments
on behalf of one of its members, said today in a statement. He
called the Supreme Court’s decision to hear the case “welcome
news.”  The AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest labor group, called on
the high court to overturn was it termed a “radical decision”
by the appellate judges.  The decision “has wreaked havoc on the lives of working
people seeking to exercise their rights to join together to
improve their work lives,” said Josh Goldstein, a spokesman for
the AFL-CIO, in an e-mail. “But workers can’t wait for the
Supreme Court -- we need the Senate to confirm the bipartisan
package of NLRB nominees now.”  ‘Free Rein’  Obama’s interpretation would give him “free rein to
appoint his desired nominees at any time he pleases, whether
that time be a weekend, lunch or even when the Senate is in
session and he is merely displeased with its inaction,”
Appellate Judge David Sentelle wrote in the decision the Supreme
Court agreed to hear.  Two of the judges went further, saying valid appointments
could be made only when the vacancy itself occurred while the
Senate was adjourned.  The high court also will consider a third line of argument
against the NLRB selections. Noel Canning contends that the
president can’t use the recess appointment power when the Senate
is convening every three days in pro-forma sessions.  In agreeing to hear the case, the Supreme Court directed
the parties to argue whether the president can exercise recess-appointment power during the pro-forma sessions.  The Constitution says the president “shall have power to
fill up all vacancies that may happen during the recess of the
Senate, by granting commissions which shall expire at the end of
their next session.”  Framers’ Intent  Much of the debate turns on the wording of that clause. The
two sides dispute whether the word “the” suggests that the
constitutional framers intended to limit the appointment power
to a specific recess -- namely, the one at the end of a session.  The litigants also disagree about the word “happen,”
which the administration says is equivalent to “happen to
exist” and the appeals court interpreted to mean “arise.”  Recess appointees can remain in office through the two-year
congressional term that follows the one during which they were
appointed.  A ruling against the administration would raise questions
about the work of the Consumer Financial Protection Board,
potentially letting companies seek to overturn Cordray’s
appointment and forcing the agency to revisit its regulatory
powers.  The Dodd-Frank law authorized the agency to undertake new
regulatory policies, such as supervising mortgage lenders that
played a role in the 2008 financial crisis, only after a
director was in place.  The case is  National Labor Relations Board  v. Canning,
12-1281.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  