-- Obamacare Hotline Opens to Market Law 100 Days Prior to Start-Up
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-24T13:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/obamacare-hotline-opens-to-market-law-100-days-prior-to-start-up.html
A U.S. hotline for questions about
the medical-insurance exchanges created under the Affordable
Care Act has been activated, just 100 days before the uninsured
can start signing up for coverage.  The hotline, at 1-800-318-2596, and a redesigned government
website that was also put in place today are part of an Obama
Administration push to better educate Americans about a law that
continues to mystify, according to recent surveys. The  Kaiser
Family Foundation  said in April that 42 percent of people it
surveyed weren’t sure the law was still on the books.  The phone line and website are the public face of the new
online marketplaces that will start selling insurance plans on
Oct. 1 for people who don’t have it through work. The coverage,
which in some cases will be subsidized, takes effect January 1.
The administration estimates it needs to convince about 2.6
million young, healthy people to sign up for exchange coverage
to balance the risk presented by millions of older or sicker
people who may flock to the marketplaces.  For now, the services “will help consumers prepare for the
new coverage opportunities coming later this year,”  Marilyn Tavenner , the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, said in a statement. Tavenner’s agency
supervises the website and call-in line.  The  Congressional Budget Office  expects about 7 million
people to obtain insurance through the services next year,
rising to 24 million by 2023.  The telephone service asks callers to provide their home
state and then offers information on how the exchange works and
what information will be required to enroll in plans. A live
representative can be reached through the automated menu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  