-- Obama’s EPA Gets Supreme Court Hearing on Coal Pollution
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-06-24T16:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/obama-s-epa-gets-supreme-court-hearing-on-coal-pollution.html
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to
consider reviving an Environmental Protection Agency rule that
would curb emissions from coal-fired power plants, in a clash
over the Obama administration’s biggest air-quality effort.  A federal appeals court threw out the cross-state air
pollution rule last year, saying the EPA had gone beyond its
powers under federal law. That decision was a victory for coal
companies and utilities, which called the measure one of the
costliest ever issued under the  Clean Air Act .  The administration is seeking to reinstate a rule it says
would prevent up to 34,000 premature deaths and produce as much
as $280 billion a year in economic benefits. The rule, which has
never taken effect, caps emissions of sulfur dioxide and
nitrogen oxides in 28 states whose pollution blows into
neighboring jurisdictions. All are in the eastern two-thirds of
the country.  “The U.S. Supreme Court is likely taking this case in
order to reverse the D.C. Circuit panel’s decision that is
contrary to law and would further delay long-needed clean air
standards necessary to protect our public health,” Howard
Lerner, executive director of the Environmental Law and Policy
Center, said today in an e-mailed statement.  14 States  The justices will hear arguments and rule during the nine-month term that starts in October.  Attorneys general  from 14 states, led by  Texas , are
challenging the rule alongside  American Electric Power Co. (AEP) ,
 Entergy Corp. (ETR) ,  Edison International (EIX) ,  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) ,
 Southern Co. (SO)  and the United Mine Workers of America. They urged
the court not to hear the case.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the D.C. Circuit voted 2-1 to
strike down the rule, saying it was too strict and that the EPA
didn’t give states a chance to put in place their own pollution-reduction plans before imposing a nationwide standard.  EPA’s rule would “impose massive emissions reductions
without regard to the limits imposed by the statutory text,”
Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  wrote for the court.  2005 Measure  The court ordered the agency to continue to enforce a 2005
measure known as the Clean Air Interstate Rule until a viable
replacement to the cross-state regulation can be issued -- a
process the Obama administration said could take years.  Given that the lower court had thrown out the standard
adopted during the  Bush administration  as insufficient, and the
Obama-era standard as too stringent, “it was confusing to say
the least,” Janice Nolen, assistant vice president of the
American Lung Association, said in an interview. “We are very
pleased that they may clarify this.”  The justices also will consider a procedural question --
whether the lower court had power to hear the challenge to the
rule. The administration contends the appeals court reached its
conclusion only by improperly invalidating other rules that
weren’t directly before the court.  The lower court decision was a reprieve for coal-dependent
power generators facing the combined threats of increasing
federal regulation and low natural-gas prices.  The EPA rule targets sulfur dioxide, which can lead to acid
rain and soot harmful to humans and ecosystems, and nitrogen
oxide, a component of ground-level ozone and a main ingredient
of smog.  The cases are U.S. Environmental Protection Agency v. EME
Homer City Generation, 12-1182, and American Lung Association v.
EME Homer City, 12-1183.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  