-- Obama, Business Leaders to Press Senate on Immigration
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-06-24T18:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/obama-business-leaders-to-press-senate-on-immigration.html
President  Barack Obama  invited a
group of business leaders, including America Online Inc. co-founder Steve Case, to the White House today to help him press
the Senate to pass the first major revision to U.S. immigration
law since 1986.  With a critical test vote on the bill set for later today,
Obama is seeking to maintain momentum for Senate passage by
highlighting the economic benefits of making it easier for
skilled workers to get visas, tightening border security and
creating a path to citizenship for an estimated 11 million
undocumented immigrants in the U.S.  “We’ve got a strong bipartisan bill,” Obama said at the
start of the White House meeting. “Now’s the time to get
comprehensive immigration reform done.”  Obama and the executives planned to review a Congressional
Budget Office report that said the Senate bill would cut the
budget deficit over the next 10 years by $175 billion while
economic growth would gain 3.3 percent as investment and
productivity increase. Deficit reduction would climb to about
$700 billion over the following decade, as tax collections rise,
the CBO said.  Business leaders recognize “immigration is a contributor
to growth, contributor to expansion, a creator of jobs,” Obama
said. He said they would lobby lawmakers to make sure the
legislation gets the “strongest possible vote.”  Senate Votes  Senate Democratic leaders say they want to pass a bill
before July 4. Senators Charles Schumer, a  New York  Democrat,
and Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican, who have been
working on the legislation, said yesterday the measure might win
as many as 70 votes in the 100-member Senate. The next challenge
is in the House of Representatives, where lawmakers are divided
on the issue and Republicans, led by Speaker John Boehner of
 Ohio , have the majority.  Business trade groups, including the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and the Business Roundtable, have joined union leaders
to back the bill.  Along with Case, currently chairman and chief executive
officer of venture-capital firm Revolution LLC, the others
scheduled to attend the White House gathering are Jason Berry,
owner of Blueberry Farms of Georgia and Berry Farms; Farooq Kathwari, chairman, president and CEO of  Ethan Allen Interiors
Inc. (ETH) ; Sunil Puri, founder, First Rockford Group Inc., a real
estate company; Dilawar Syed, CEO of Yonja Media Group; Hamdi Ulukaya, founder, president and CEO of Chobani Inc., producer of
Chobani Greek yogurt; Bricia Lopez, co-owner of the Guelaguetza
Restaurante in Los Angeles, and San Francisco area entrepreneur
Alex Torrenegra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  