-- Homebuilders in U.S. Approach Bear Market on Rising Rates
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-06-24T20:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/homebuilders-in-u-s-approach-bear-market-on-rising-rates.html
U.S. homebuilders fell for a fourth
day, approaching a bear market, as concern mounted that rising
mortgage rates could restrain a revival in the  housing  market.  The 11-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
Index slid 1 percent today to the lowest level since the end of
2012. It has fallen 19.6 percent from a May 14 peak, close to
the 20 percent threshold considered to be a bear market.  The prospect that the Federal Reserve may slow bond
purchases has stoked investor concern that mortgage rates will
rise and limit new-home sales, which have  jumped  as inventories
for existing properties tightened. Housing shares may have
climbed too far after a rally that sent the S&P builder  gauge  up
84 percent last year, more than six times the gain in the S&P
500 Index, said Vicki Bryan, an analyst at Gimme Credit LLC.  “Investors got way ahead of themselves in estimating
performance results for the sector, perhaps by years in the case
of some builders,” she said in a telephone interview today from
New York. “They’ve already sapped most of the logical upside.
That only leaves room for disappointment.”  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI)  and  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the two largest U.S.
homebuilders, have led the decline since May 14, with each
losing 24 percent. Ryland Group Inc. has fallen 23 percent,
while  KB Home (KBH)  has slumped 22 percent.  Higher Costs  The average  rate  for a 30-year fixed mortgage jumped to
3.93 percent last week from 3.35 percent in early May, according
to Freddie Mac. Borrowing costs probably will rise further after
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week that policy makers
may slow bond purchases this year amid signs of an improving
economy. Wells Fargo & Co., the largest U.S. home lender, is
offering a 30-year mortgage at 4.75 percent today, according to
its website.  An extended rise in rates may hurt homebuilders’ mortgage-origination businesses, which account for an average of about 28
percent of their operating profit, Megan McGrath, an analyst at
MKM Partners LLC, said in a note to clients today.  The spread between the rate the financial-services
businesses underwrite mortgages for and what investors pay for
the loans will shrink, she said.  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest
homebuilder, may be most at risk of lower revenue and margins
from this business, according to McGrath.  “Investors should be braced for increased volatility in
homebuilding shares over the remainder of the summer as
continued fears around higher rates battle with what we expect
will be generally positive housing data,” McGrath wrote.  Home Sales  New-home sales rose 2.3 percent in April from the previous
month, according to the Commerce Department. A report tomorrow
will probably show that purchases in May climbed to a 460,000
annualized pace, the highest since July 2008, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The short-term turbulence in homebuilder share prices will
create a “long-term opportunity,” said Robert Wetenhall, an
analyst with RBC Capital Markets in New York.  “In the near term, homebuilder stocks will struggle in a
rising interest rate environment due to concerns -– either real
or imagined,” Wetenhall said in a note to clients today. “In
the long term, however, we think that better pricing practices
and strong volume growth will reward patient investors with a
multiyear holding period.”  The decline represents a “knee-jerk reaction” to rising
rates, which may bring share prices down to more realistic
levels, said Robert Curran, a managing director at Fitch Ratings
in New York.  “This is the market adjusting itself,” Curran said in a
telephone interview. “There was an over-reaction on the upside
and there was something of an over-reaction to the news on the
interest rate. At some point, further out this year, there will
something more of a normal balance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  