-- OnCure Names Radiation Therapy Services as Lead Bidder
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-06-24T17:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/oncure-names-radiation-therapy-services-as-lead-bidder.html
OnCure Holdings Inc., the bankrupt
provider of services to cancer clinics, agreed to sell itself at
a court-supervised auction with a $125 million initial bid from
Radiation Therapy Services Inc.  Unless another offer tops the so-called stalking-horse bid,
Radiation Therapy is required to complete the deal by Oct. 25,
according to documents in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  Under proposed bidding rules, OnCure agreed to pay
Radiation Therapy a $1 million breakup fee and as much as
$2 million for expenses should another investor win the auction.  The rules “will ensure a competitive and fair bidding
process,” OnCure said in court documents filed June 22.  Radiation Therapy agreed to pay $42.5 million in cash and
assume debt of $82.5 million, OnCure said in a statement.  OnCure, based in Englewood,  Colorado , filed for bankruptcy
earlier this month blaming cuts in federal health-insurance
payments. At the time, the company said it planned to sell
itself to an undisclosed buyer.  Radiation Therapy is owned by Vestar Capital Partners, a
New York-based private-equity firm, according to a March 2012
regulatory filing.  Bidding Rules  The bidding rules and the auction winner must be approved
by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross. The company didn’t say
when it would hold the auction.  OnCure listed assets of $179.3 million and debt of
$250.4 million in its Chapter 11 filing. OnCure began seeing
fewer patients in 2011 and on Jan. 1, the government-run
Medicare and Medicaid programs cut reimbursement rates by 7
percent, Chief Executive Officer Bradford Burkett said in a
declaration filed June 15.  OnCure is at least the third health-care company to file
for bankruptcy with $200 million or more in debt since April.
 Rotech Healthcare Inc. (ROHIQ) , a provider of home respiratory products,
and Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester, an affiliate of
 New York  College of Medicine, also blamed Medicare cuts for
their bankruptcies.  OnCure employs 370 people and provides services to 32
radiation-treatment centers in Florida and California and one in
 Indiana . GenStar Capital LLC took over the company in 2006 and
owns more than 70 percent of it, according to court records.  The case is In re OnCure Holdings, Inc., 13-bk-11540, U.S
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  