-- Honda Appeals to Females With Costliest Acura Ad Campaign
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-06-24T20:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/honda-appeals-to-females-with-costliest-acura-ad-campaign.html
Honda Motor Co. (HMC)  is targeting female
drivers for its redesigned 2014 Acura MDX sport wagon with the
luxury brand’s most expensive advertising campaign yet.  Using the slogan “Made for Mankind,” a female narrates
the moody ads showing women hiking a mountain ridge, dancing and
interacting with a robot. The commercial debuts during the
 National Hockey League ’s Stanley Cup Finals this month, while
the full campaign starts July 7, Tokyo-based Honda said.  Honda is betting the ads will boost Acura sales that have
fallen 25 percent in the U.S. from a peak of 209,610 in 2005.
The luxury marque of  Japan ’s third-largest automaker is also
promoting a new RLX sedan and NSX, a sports car priced above
$100,000. With the new MDX, Acura said it’s trying to make an
emotional appeal to female luxury-car buyers.  “Luxury is so focused on a very sort of stereotypical, 40-year-old wealthy male,” Gary Robinson, advertising manager for
Honda’s Acura luxury line, said June 20 in  Detroit  at a briefing
on the new MDX. “Going forward, certainly in our country, that
is not going to be anybody’s majority anymore. So there’s this
opportunity to talk to somebody different.”  Honda is hoping to imbue Acura with the same success it has
found with its mainstream model line, which includes the Accord
sedan, the second-best-selling car in the U.S. this year.  Going after female buyers for the MDX makes sense, said
Michelle Krebs, an analyst at auto researcher Edmunds.com.  Moms’ Car  “Moms drive the MDX; it’s sort of a minivan that’s not a
minivan,” said Krebs, who is based in Southfield,  Michigan .
“Why not appeal to the female audience? Not many automakers do
that.”  Robinson said the MDX ad campaign is the costliest ever for
Acura. He declined to reveal how much Honda is spending on it.
He said it’s more than twice as much as Acura’s campaign last
year to introduce the redesigned RDX model. And he said the cost
of the MDX campaign is “not too far off” what Honda spends on
its bread-and-butter Accord model.  “Our brand sort of struggles in terms of volume,”
Robinson said of Acura. “This is our most important vehicle in
a lot of ways and we can’t get it wrong.”  Honda set a goal for this year of topping its best-ever
U.S. volume of 1.55 million Honda and Acura brand cars and light
trucks, set in 2007. The company is counting on the third-generation MDX and new RLX flagship sedan to reach the target.
Acura plans to sell 60,000 MDX models a year, Robinson said.  U.S. Deliveries  Honda’s total U.S. deliveries gained 5.6 percent this year
through May to 608,663. The company’s Honda brand rose 5.2
percent during that period, while its Acura brand increased 9.8
percent, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Acura’s U.S. sales trail the luxury leaders,  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus line.  “For Acura, the luxury market is so intensely competitive
and they’ve fallen so far,” Krebs said. “Now they’re trying to
shake things up.”  Honda’s American depositary receipts fell 3.4 percent to
$35.44 at the close in  New York . The ADRs have declined 4.1
percent this year, compared with a 10 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  