-- Hong Kong Bank System Outlook Cut by Moody’s on China Risk
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-06-25T03:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/hong-kong-banking-system-outlook-cut-by-moody-s-on-china-risks.html
The outlook for Hong Kong’s banking
system was lowered to negative from stable at Moody’s Investors
Service Inc. on lenders’ growing exposure to borrowers in  China .  Hong Kong banks are increasingly reliant on the mainland
because real  interest rates  in the city remain low amid surging
property prices, the credit-rating company said in a statement
yesterday. These circumstances “may contribute to adverse
future operating conditions for Hong Kong banks,” it said.  Hong Kong banks are turning to borrowers in the mainland at
a time when slower economic growth and efforts to rein in shadow
banking are leading to rising bad loans. Non-performing loans at
Chinese banks rose for six straight quarters through March 31,
the longest deterioration in at least nine years. The increase
may accelerate in the coming months, Moody’s said in a separate
statement yesterday.  Hong Kong lenders have mitigated risks from mainland
lending by requiring collateral and bank guarantees, Moody’s
said. The firm rates 17 banks in Hong Kong, which, led by  HSBC
Holdings Group Plc (5) ,  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11) , Bank of China (Hong
Kong) Ltd. and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , accounted for 70 percent
of the city’s domestic loans at the end of 2012, according to
the statement.  The Hang Seng Finance Index rose 0.2 percent at 11:02 a.m.,
compared with the benchmark Hang Seng Index’s 0.3 percent gain.
HSBC fell 0.1 percent to $79.20 and BOC Hong Kong (Holdings)
Ltd. slid 0.9 percent. Standard Chartered gained 0.1 percent to
HK$168.50, while Hang Seng Bank climbed 1.2 percent.  The one-day repurchase rate in China touched an
unprecedented 13.91 percent on June 20 before tumbling on signs
targeted injections of funds are being used to ease a cash
crunch that threatens to worsen the economic slowdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Hong Kong at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kimberly Yuen at 
 kyuen3@bloomberg.net  