-- Hong Kong Rebuff on Snowden Averts Chinese Strains With U.S.
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-06-24T03:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/hong-kong-rebuff-on-snowden-averts-china-strain-as-u-s-protests.html
Hong Kong’s decision to let Edward Snowden leave despite a U.S. warrant for his arrest spared the
city a legal battle that would have left it trapped between the
competing interests of Chinese and American leaders.  In allowing the ex-National Security Agency contractor to
board a flight to Moscow yesterday, Hong Kong no longer has to
weigh American extradition demands against signs  China  didn’t
want the city to give up Snowden, who exposed programs in which
he said the U.S. monitored its own citizens and millions of
Chinese text messages. The consequences include U.S. ire over
the move and cast a spotlight on the city’s respect for legal
procedures.  Hong Kong’s government yesterday found “no legal basis”
to stop Snowden, less than two weeks after Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said any extradition request would be handled
according to the law. American senators decried the move and a
Justice Department official said it raised concerns for the U.S.  “It’s a neat option from the Hong Kong government’s point
of view but there are also consequences,” Willy Wo-Lap Lam, a
politics professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said
by phone. “The decision risks being judged as a pretext and not
respecting the rule of law and also not respecting the spirit of
the extradition agreement with the U.S.”  Hong Kong said the U.S. arrest warrant didn’t meet legal
requirements. The Justice official, asking not to be named due
to the sensitivity of the issue, said U.S. authorities believed
the documents provided for the extradition request met the
requirements of the agreement between the two countries.
Discussions between the two countries over how and why the
incident occurred will continue, the official said.  Political Asylum  Snowden, 30, landed in Moscow yesterday evening. He
requested political asylum in  Ecuador , that nation’s foreign
minister, Ricardo Patino Aroca, said in a posting on Twitter.
While Snowden’s revelations sparked espionage charges in the
U.S., China’s state media said an extradition would tarnish Hong
Kong and highlighted that his actions were applauded worldwide.  Hong Kong’s dilemma arose in part from the “one country-two systems” arrangement under which it has its own legal
system even as China retains ultimate sovereignty and dictates
its foreign policy. At the same time, it has an extradition
treaty with the U.S. that dates back to 1996, the year before it
returned to Chinese control.  “China clearly had a role in this, in my view -- I don’t
think this was just Hong Kong without Chinese acquiescence,”
Dianne Feinstein, a Democratic senator from  California  and chair
of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said in an interview on
CBS’s “Face the Nation” yesterday.  China Involvement  Charles Schumer of New York, the third-ranked Democrat in
the Senate, said “very disappointing what Hong Kong has done,”
on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program. “I have a feeling the
hand of Beijing was involved.”  Hong Kong had been asked to detain Snowden, charged with
exposing a secret government electronic-surveillance program,
while the extradition request was being completed, according to
two U.S. officials familiar with the matter. Snowden’s leaks
revealed how the NSA collects data under a U.S. government
program code-named PRISM.  “It is a very low threshold test to get the provisional
warrant in place,” Simon Young, a law professor at the
University of Hong Kong, said in an e-mail. “Only two
requirements are needed, evidence that the person is in Hong
Kong -- no doubt here -- and that the person is wanted for
prosecution in the U.S. -- again, another no brainer.”  Text Intercepts  Snowden, who fled to Hong Kong on May 20, said private text
messages of millions of Chinese mobile-phone company subscribers
have been intercepted by the NSA, the South China Morning Post
reported yesterday, citing data provided by Snowden in a June 12
interview.  The agency also attacked Tsinghua University’s server and
accessed computers at the Hong Kong headquarters of Pacnet Ltd.,
which owns one of the most extensive fiber-optic submarine cable
networks in the region, the Post cited Snowden as saying. China
had filed a diplomatic protest to the U.S., Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Hua Chunying said in a statement on the ministry’s
website yesterday.  NSA Director General Keith B. Alexander, asked in an
interview on ABC’s “This Week” whether he was confident the
U.S. hadn’t broken Hong Kong laws, said “I’m confident that
we’re following the laws that our country has in doing what we
do. We have a set of laws that guide how NSA acts. We follow
those laws.”  U.S. Charges  Sealed charges of theft of government property,
unauthorized communication of national defense information and
willful communication of classified communications intelligence
information to an unauthorized person by the U.S. were filed
against Snowden on June 14. They were unsealed June 21.  “To allow him out of the country one or two days after
extradition papers were served is not good faith, and for some
reason Hong Kong and China wanted to let Snowden get away and
this is a direct slap at the U.S.,” Representative Peter King,
a New York Republican who serves on both the House Intelligence
and Homeland Security committees, said in an interview on
Bloomberg TV today.  China’s official Xinhua News Agency noted how Snowden’s
revelations came soon after U.S. President  Barack Obama  raised
allegations of Chinese cyber-attacks during a meeting with
President Xi Jinping in June.  Previous Allegations  “These, along with previous allegations, are clearly
troubling signs,” the June 22 Xinhua commentary. “They
demonstrate that the United States, which has long been trying
to play innocent as a victim of cyber-attacks, has turned out to
be the biggest villain in our age.”  That came after the  state-run Global Times  newspaper had
said “extraditing Snowden back to the U.S. would not only be a
betrayal of Snowden’s trust, but a disappointment for
expectations around the world.”  Under Hong Kong law, the city’s chief executive decides
whether to act on a surrender request, according to Kevin Egan,
a former Hong Kong prosecutor who has since worked as a defense
lawyer on extradition cases.  “The chief executive has to and will consult China as to
whether its foreign or defense affairs are affected by the
request,” Egan said.  In its official statement on its decision to allow Snowden
to leave, the Hong Kong government said it had queried the U.S.
over Snowden’s hacking claims. The statement said Hong Kong will
“continue to follow up on the matter so as to protect the legal
rights of the people of Hong Kong.”  That mention was “included deliberately as a pre-emptive
move to guard against recriminations from the U.S.,” Lam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  