-- Lonmin on the Precipice of a Labor Strike as Union Ruling Looms
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-06-24T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/lonmin-on-the-precipice-of-a-labor-strike-as-union-ruling-looms.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s third-largest platinum producer, may face a strike by its biggest
union, depending on a ruling tomorrow over the labor group’s
recognition rights, according to analysts.  There’s “a 50-50 chance” of labor action should the
Association of the Mineworkers and Construction Union be
dissatisfied with the outcome of arbitration, Peter Major, a
mining analyst at Cadiz Corporate Solutions, said by phone from
Cape Town yesterday. “It’s really on the precipice.”  The AMCU has unseated the National Union of Mineworkers as
the dominant union at the three biggest platinum producers in
South Africa, which has the largest known reserves of the metal.
The change isn’t yet formally recognized by Lonmin, which favors
allowing its workers to belong a choice of unions.  Rivalry among mine unions has contributed to some of the
worst labor violence South Africa has witnessed since the end of
apartheid in 1994. In August, police killed 34 protesters at
Lonmin’s Marikana platinum mine during a strike that formed part
of a wave of labor disruptions for the industry.  The Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration
in Johannesburg will rule tomorrow on what recognition rights
the AMCU is entitled to at Lonmin. The union speaks for more
than 70 percent of the lower-skilled workers at the company and
also wants to lead negotiations for higher-skilled employees,
where it has fewer followers.  “AMCU are asking for a bit too much representation,” said
Michael Kavanagh, a Cape Town-based metals and mining analyst
for Noah Capital Markets. “My base-case assumption is that the
representation agreement will end up looking similar to that
which Lonmin had with the NUM previously,” he said, with Amcu’s
recognition limited to the lower-skilled segment.  Union Deaths  The NUM and two other unions, Solidarity and UASA, hold
recognition agreements for skilled workers at Lonmin, and each
has membership of more than 20 percent of employees in that
segment.  Members of both the AMCU and the NUM unions have been shot
near Lonmin operations in the last few months, an AMCU member
while he watched football in a tavern, according to local
reports, a NUM official at an office. Last week vehicles bearing
the logo of Protea Coin Group Ltd., a closely held Centurion,
South Africa-based security and surveillance company, patrolled
a housing area at Marikana.  Lonmin wouldn’t speculate on the likelihood of further
conflict over union recognition.  “We remain committed to the arbitration process and
believe the outcome will be in the best interests of all,” Sue
Vey, a Lonmin spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Mining strikes last year caused almost 15 billion rand
($1.5 billion) in lost output and shaved about 0.5 percentage
point off gross domestic product, according to the National
Treasury.  Recruitment Drive  The NUM has until July 16 to regain its majority among the
Lonmin workforce or lose its office and associated rights, a
Johannesburg labor court has ruled.  While the union has started a recruitment drive at Lonmin
shafts to regain support, its primary goal is to hear worker
concerns, Luphert Chilwane, a NUM spokesman involved in the
campaign, said by mobile phone. “The majority of them are
expressing that they’re tired of the violence and they want it
to end,” he said.  AMCU said June 13 it was postponing a threatened strike
over recognition rights to give the government time to
‘understand the challenges’’ the the group faces, particularly
at Lonmin. “For us the arbitration is just a matter of time
wasting on the part of the company, but we’ll attend the
arbitration,” Jimmy Gama, AMCU treasurer, said by phone
yesterday. “We have our own way of approaching this matter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  