-- Moody’s May Cut NCAA Rating on Litigation Threat to Revenue
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-06-24T21:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/moody-s-may-cut-ncaa-rating-over-litigation-threat-to-revenue.html
Moody’s Investors Service is
threatening to downgrade  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  debt because of pending litigation and uncertainty
over its amateur business model.  A judge in Oakland,  California , heard arguments less than a
week ago in a lawsuit filed by former University of California-Los Angeles basketball player Ed O’Bannon and others challenging
the right of college sports’ governing body, conferences and
schools to keep proceeds from selling the rights to athletes’
likenesses in TV broadcasts, video games and on apparel. The
plaintiffs say a victory could reduce the $6.4 billion in annual
revenue universities earn from athletics by as much as 50
percent.  The ratings company reduced the outlook to negative on the
NCAA’s Series 2005 and Series 2010 revenue bonds that were
issued through the Indiana Finance Authority. The bonds are
rated Aa2.  “Increased public discourse about the best interest of
student athletes combined with the highly publicized litigation
could destabilize the current intercollegiate athletic system
and negatively impact the NCAA and its member universities,”
Moody’s said in a statement.  Moody’s said it didn’t expect a precipitous decline in the
NCAA’s financial position at this time.  “Although the outlook change is a long-range projection,
the NCAA’s financial rating did not change,” NCAA spokeswoman
Stacey Osburn said in a statement. “As a result, we do not
anticipate any substantive issues based on the Moody’s report.”  The NCAA earned about $857 million in revenue in fiscal
2012, with more than 75 percent coming from the men’s college
basketball tournament, according to Moody’s.  The report said the NCAA had $567 million in cash and
investments in fiscal 2012, up 55 percent since fiscal 2008,
through retained surpluses and investment gains, enough to cover
direct debt by more than 10 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  