-- Options on Debt Derivatives Nearing $100 Billion: Credit Markets
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2013-06-24T15:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/options-on-debt-derivatives-nearing-100-billion-credit-markets.html
The market for options on credit
derivatives indexes has surged more than 40 percent in the past
month to $98.8 billion as investors search farther afield for
cheap hedges protecting against a sell-off in the bond markets.  The contracts, which give investors the right but not the
obligation to buy or sell indexes of credit-default swaps at a
certain price, have doubled from $48.7 billion a year ago,
 Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  data show. That compares with
a 17 percent drop in the amount covered by swaps benchmarks on
U.S. and European investment-grade debt and a 4 percent decline
for all credit derivative products in the year through June 14.  Demand for options is a sign that the  bond market  might be
nearing an inflection point with Federal Reserve officials
saying that the economy is strong enough for them to curtail
measures that have supported fixed-income prices.  “Options offer a sometimes inexpensive way of hedging
yourself against market volatility,” said Geraud Charpin, a
 fund manager  at Bluebay Asset Management Ltd. in  London  which
oversees $55 billion. “They take away the stress of managing
individual index positions constantly.”  Risk Protection  The cost of using options, which are priced on volatility,
as a hedging tool remains below its historic average even with
the recent rise market swings, according to Raphael Dando, an
analyst at Societe Generale SA in Paris. He recommends buying
contracts tied to the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125
investment-grade companies.  The credit options, like those for equities or interest
rates, are used to guard against or speculate on fluctuations in
prices, or bet that volatility will rise or fall. Traders can
construct strategies that require no upfront payment while
tracking movements in underlying indexes. By buying and selling
contracts on credit derivative benchmarks, an investor can get
protection against a jump in debt risk at little or no cost.  “People buy options when they want to remain long, but
still want to hedge themselves,” said Saul Doctor, a credit
derivatives strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. “At
the same time, selling options has been a good way historically
to generate excess yield.”  Default Swaps  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index of
swaps jumped to the highest in almost three months after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 that policy makers could
begin to trim the $85 billion of monthly Treasury and mortgage
bond purchases as soon as this year. A rise in the index
indicates investors anticipate losses in corporate bonds.  Company debt securities have lost 2.54 percent this month,
following a 1.55 percent decline in May, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Corporate index shows. Losses this year total
2.11 percent, after cumulative returns of 45 percent including
reinvested interest from the end of 2008 through 2012.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index increased 4.9 basis point
to a mid-price of 98.9 basis points as of 11:24 a.m. in  New
York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 1.25 basis point to 20.8 basis
points as of 11:24 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of General Electric Co. are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 3.7 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 11:24 a.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The  Bloomberg Global Investment Grade Corporate Bond Index (BCOR) 
has lost 1.96 percent this month, bringing the decline for the
year to 3.7 percent.  There are now 4,863 credit index options contracts
outstanding protecting $98.8 billion of debt, up from 4,260
covering $48.7 billion last year, according to DTCC.  The current versions of the Markit CDX North American
Investment Grade and the Markit iTraxx Europe swaps indexes
together cover $110 billion of debt, down from $133 billion on
the equivalent measures last year, DTCC data show. The total
amount of protection outstanding across indexes fell by $260
billion to $1.38 trillion, while the overall  credit derivatives
market  shrank by $1.1 trillion to $25.5 trillion.  ‘More Efficient’  “Accounts are trading more options and less indices
because it’s more efficient,” said Olivier Renart, the head of
European credit flow trading at BNP Paribas SA in London. “It’s
a way to express your views on the direction of the market
without having noise around small moves.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , which owns the world’s
largest clearinghouse for default swaps, said this week that
trading has started on credit index futures.  The contracts, called the Markit CDX Investment Grade WI
Future, is tied to the Markit CDX North American Investment
Grade Index and trade in sizes of $250,000 of notional value and
require cash settlement at expiration.  The provisional list of index constituents will be updated
daily, determined by ratings, debt outstanding, liquidity and
spread level, according to a statement posted on Markit Group
Ltd.’s website this month.  CME, Eurex  The world’s largest banks that buy and sell credit swaps
resisted efforts by CME Group Inc. and Eurex AG in 2007 to offer
credit swaps-like futures. That was before the September 2008
failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., one of the biggest
swaps dealers.  Chicago-based CME Group, the biggest futures exchange, is
now working on an offering for clearing credit-default swap
options, or swaptions, according to  Kim Taylor , president of the
group’s clearinghouse.  Swaps tied to individual credits and “additional index
products” are “reasonably high on our priority list,” she
said at the International Swaps & Derivatives Association’s
annual meeting in  Singapore  last month.  That priority may increase as credit markets get whipsawed
by speculation about when the Fed will start tapering its $85
billion in monthly bond buying program.  “People are trying to trade volatility from one side or
the other,” said Doctor at JPMorgan. “One side is expressing
the view that central banks will be able to keep volatility low,
the other that they won’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  