-- Hormone Drugs Don’t Harm Brain for Some Menopausal Women
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/hormone-drugs-don-t-harm-brain-for-some-menopausal-women.html
Hormone therapy doesn’t appear to
have a harmful effect on cognitive function in younger
postmenopausal women, according to a study that also showed the
treatment didn’t benefit the brain.  Women 50 to 55 years old who were given estrogen or
estrogen plus progestin had similar scores on tests of memory
and other mental processes as those taking a placebo, according
to research published yesterday in  JAMA Internal Medicine .  An earlier study in women ages 65 and older linked the
hormone treatments to cognitive decline and dementia, the
authors said. The new findings show that taking the therapies
for a short time earlier in menopause to treat symptoms doesn’t
harm the brain, said  Mark Espeland , the lead study author.  “These findings are still not definitive but they are
certainly the best evidence yet that the negative effects on the
brain of hormone therapy in older women do not extend to younger
women,” said  Francine Grodstein , an associate professor of
medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in  Boston  who wrote an
accompanying editorial in the journal. “Hormone therapy remains
one of the best treatments for menopausal symptoms.”  Menopausal women take  hormone treatments  to relieve hot
flashes, night sweats and vaginal symptoms. The hormone
replacement therapies should be taken at the lowest dose and for
the shortest duration needed to relieve symptoms, according to
U.S. recommendations. Some of the treatments may increase a
woman’s risk of breast cancer, heart disease and stroke.  Breast Cancer  More than 6 million women took New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Premarin and Prempro, a combination of estrogen and progestin,
to treat their menopausal symptoms before they were linked in
2002 to health concerns such as breast cancer.  The study from the Women’s Health Initiative Memory Study
of Younger Women is an extension of the  Women’s Health
Initiative . The research included 1,326 postmenopausal women who
received hormone therapy or placebo when they were 50 to 55
years old for about seven years. Researchers conducted telephone
interviews to measure cognitive function over the following
seven years after they stopped treatment.  “Based on our data, there appears to be no harm and no
benefit to women’s cognition,” Espeland, a professor of public
health at Wake Forest University, in Winston-Salem, North
Carolina, said in a telephone interview. He said they are
continuing to follow these women to see if there are any long-term cognition problems related to hormone therapy use and what
women can do in midlife to preserve mental function as they age.  The research was funded by the U.S. National Institutes of
Health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  