-- Los Angeles Gasoline at Two-Week Low as Tesoro Completes Work
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-06-24T21:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/los-angeles-gasoline-at-two-week-low-as-tesoro-completes-work.html
Spot gasoline in  Los Angeles 
declined a second day against futures as  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  finished
repairs at the Carson refinery in Southern  California .  The 266,000-barrel-a-day Carson refinery, which Tesoro
bought from  BP Plc (BP/)  earlier this month, is “running normally”
after planned maintenance, Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at
Tesoro’s headquarters in  San Antonio , said by e-mail today.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles, which
began trading June 21 for July delivery, dropped 8 cents against
futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange to a premium
of 19.5 cents a gallon, the lowest level in two weeks, data
compiled by Bloomberg at 4:10 p.m. New York time show. Prompt-delivery of the fuel declined 9.96 cents to $2.9221 a gallon.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s 150,000-barrel-a-day Torrance refinery
near Los Angeles planned to flare gases through June 22 related
to scheduled maintenance on a unit, Gesuina Paras, an Exxon
spokeswoman at the plant, said by e-mail June 21. The work was
unrelated to the June 19 shutdown of the crude unit, she said.  Repairs on the crude unit at the Torrance refinery were
expected to last one to two weeks, a person familiar with
operations there said June 20. Other equipment at the refinery
was running at about half of normal capacity during the work,
the person said.  Carbob in San Francisco weakened 8 cents against futures to
a premium of 15.50 cents a gallon, the lowest level in a week.
The  discount  for San Francisco Carbob versus the same fuel in
Los Angeles was unchanged at 4 cents a gallon.  Shell Martinez  The fluid catalytic cracker at  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s
Martinez refinery in Northern California, a gasoline-producing
unit that was taken out of service after a boiler trip on June
19, was expected to be down for five to six days, according to a
filing from Contra Costa County regulators. All three boilers at
the plant were shut after the upset, according to the filing.  Retail gasoline  in California slipped 0.2 cent to $4.067 a
gallon, Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the nation’s largest
motoring organization, said today on its website. Prices are up
from $3.856 a gallon a year ago.  The premium for spot, conventional gasoline in  Portland ,
 Oregon , narrowed by 1 cent against gasoline futures to a premium
of 15 cents a gallon. Portland gasoline’s discount to Los
Angeles Carbob narrowed 7 cents to 4.5 cents a gallon, the
smallest gap in almost three weeks.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles narrowed a third
day, losing $4.18 to $17.60 a barrel at 4:12 p.m. New York time.
The spread, a rough indicator of short-term refining margins, is
down 46 percent from this year’s high of $32.74 a gallon reached
on June 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  