-- Total Buys North Sea Brent; Iraq to Cut Basrah Crude Exports
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-06-24T17:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/total-buys-north-sea-brent-iraq-to-cut-basrah-crude-exports.html
 Total SA bought two cargoes of
North Sea Brent in a rare transaction of the grade to be
recorded in the Platts trading window. Eni SpA and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc failed to sell Forties.  Iraq  will ship 43 cargoes of Basrah Light crude from the
Persian Gulf in July, one less than this month, a loading
program obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  North Sea  Total purchased two cargoes of Brent from Shell at parity
to Dated Brent and at a 20 cents a barrel premium for loading on
July 10 to July 12 and July 13 to July 15 respectively, a
Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts
pricing window showed.  Eni failed to find a buyer for two consignments of Forties
at premiums of 25 cents and 30 cents to the benchmark, while
Shell was unsuccessful with an offer at plus 25 cents, the
survey showed.  Mercuria Energy Trading SA, Total and Trafigura Beheer BV
all failed to buy the grade at a range of parity to 15 cents
more than Dated Brent, according to the survey.  Eni and Shell also offered Ekofisk unsuccessfully at
premiums of 85 cents to 90 cents to Dated Brent while Total
didn’t manage to buy the grade for July 11 to July 17 at 80
cents more than the benchmark, the survey showed.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days was 12 cents more than Dated Brent, compared with
a premium of 3 cents on June 21, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This is the highest since May 20.  Brent for August settlement traded at $100 a barrel on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the window, compared
with $100.60 in the previous session. The September contract was
at $99.63 at the same time today, a discount of 37 cents to
August.  Three Forties cargoes for loading next month were advanced
by one or two days each, according to two people with knowledge
of the loading programs, who asked not to be identified as the
information is confidential.  Statoil ASA said its Oseberg field in the North Sea resumed
production last weekend, spokesman Ola Anders Skauby said in an
e-mail, without giving further details.  Mediterranean/Urals  There were no bids or offers for Russian Urals, the Platts
survey showed.  Urals in the Mediterranean fell by 21 cents to a discount
of 31 cents a barrel to Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. In northwest Europe, the  grade  was at 22 cents a barrel
more than Dated Brent, compared with a premium of 20 cents on
June 21. That’s the highest since Aug. 16.  Iraq will export about 67.6 million barrels, or 2.18
million barrels a day, of the blend from the Basrah Oil
Terminal, according to the plan. That compares with 2.39 million
barrels a day this month.  The schedule comprises 26 lots of 2 million barrels each,
13 shipments of 1 million barrels, three of 715,000 barrels and
one of 500,000 barrels.  OAO Surgutneftegas sold two lots of Urals crude from the
Baltic ports of Primorsk and Ust-Luga to BP Plc and Repsol SA
for loading July 7 to July 8, according to two people with
knowledge of matter who asked not to be identified because the
information is confidential.  Algeria’s Sonatrach set the official selling price for
benchmark Saharan Blend crude for loading in July to 40 cents a
barrel less than Dated Brent, compared with a discount of 85
cents for June, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  West Africa  Nigerian Benchmark Qua Iboe fell 2 cents to $2.22 a barrel
more than Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Nigeria will export eight cargoes of Forcados, five each of
Akpo and Bonga, four of Brass, three each of Erha and Yoho, two
of EA, one each of Abo and Okono in August, according to loading
programs obtained by Bloomberg News. All shipments are of
250,000 barrels to 1 million barrels.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. extended closing and validity dates
for its tender seeking crude for loading in August, said two
traders who asked not to be identified because the information
is confidential.  Taiwan’s CPC Corp. issued a tender to buy 1.9 million
barrels of West African crude for loading in August, according
to a statement on its website. The tender closed today, with
offers valid until 7 p.m. local time on June 26.  The tender will close tomorrow, with offers staying valid
until the day after, the traders said. Bharat Petroleum was
previously scheduled to award the tender on June 21.  China Petrochemical Corp. signed an agreement with Marathon
Oil on June 18 to buy 10 percent stake in an oil and gas field
in  Angola  called Block 31 for $1.52 billion, the Chinese company
said in an e-mailed statement.  China Petrochemical’s interest in this block, operated by
BP, will rise to 15 percent after purchase, according to the
statement. The deal is subject to approval from the Chinese and
Angolan governments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  