-- Louisiana Refunds Market-Beating Tobacco Bonds: Muni Deal
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-06-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/louisiana-refunds-market-beating-tobacco-bonds-muni-deal.html
Louisiana is refinancing $638
million in bonds backed by tobacco company payments as such debt
is beating the broader $3.7 trillion muni market this year.  This week’s sale by the Tobacco Settlement Financing Corp.,
which is refunding securities sold in 2001, is backed by the
revenue from a 1998 settlement between cigarette companies and
U.S. states to cover health-care costs resulting from smoking.  Louisiana officials approved the refinancing last month to
take advantage of historically low  interest rates , according to
a  statement  from Kristy Nichols, administration division
commissioner. During June, municipal-bond yields have climbed to
near a two-year high as equities rallied and the  Federal Reserve 
plotted an end to its quantitative-easing program in 2014.  “We are continuing to monitor market conditions in terms
of timing and the precise amount of savings, and will proceed in
a way that’s in the best interest of the state,” Michael
DiResto, a Nichols spokesman, said by e-mail. “We look forward
to strong investor interest in the bond sale despite the
difficult market conditions these past several weeks.”  Fitch Ratings  gives the debt a BBB+ grade, the best it
grants on tobacco bonds and seven steps below top level
securities. Fitch said it expects that even if  tobacco companies 
enter bankruptcy, the payments to states would continue
“because stopping would put them at the risk of litigation.”  Ratings Rationale  Standard and Poor’s rates the securities maturing in 2016
through 2023 A, or five steps below top grade; those due in 2024
through 2033 A-, one level lower; and the 2035 maturity BBB+.
The ratings reflect the likelihood of timely payments, tobacco
company credit quality, the deal’s structure and the presence of
about $57.3 million in a liquidity reserve account, S&P said.  The 1998 accord that 46 states struck with  Phillip Morris
USA (PM) ,  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  and  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  required the
companies to pay more than $200 billion to resolve their
liability in litigation over health costs related to smoking.
About $101 billion of municipal debt is backed by the payments,
which are based on cigarette shipments.  Tobacco munis produced a 0.48 percent year-to-date total
return through June 20, compared with a 2.13 percent loss for
the broad muni market, according to Barclays Capital indexes.  A Louisiana tobacco bond maturing in May 2039 traded June
21 at an average yield of 5.88 percent, with the spread
averaging 2.16 percentage points over  benchmark  munis of the
same maturity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On Jan.
2, the tobacco bond had an average yield of 3.73 percent, a risk
premium of 1.03 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  