-- Toyota President Delivers Highest Returns for Lowest Pay
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-06-25T09:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/toyota-president-delivers-highest-returns-for-lowest-pay.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  made its name on
the value and efficiency of its cars. Its chief executive is
earning a similar reputation for his compensation.  While the company generated the highest return last year
among the world’s five biggest automakers by sales, President
 Akio Toyoda , 57, is the lowest-paid chief of the group, earning
less than one-tenth as much as his best-compensated counterpart.  Toyoda has led a profit revival since taking control in
June 2009, just after the global recession and the surging yen
helped spur the automaker’s first annual loss in 59 years.
Toyoda, the founder’s grandson, helped the company recover from
 Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami and a recall of millions of cars.  Toyota has climbed 26 percent this year in dollar terms as
of today’s close in  Tokyo , after the carmaker retook the title
of world’s biggest from  General Motors Co. (GM)  last year. In U.S.
currency terms,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  has dropped 13 percent in 2013,
while GM gained 9 percent,  Daimler AG (DAI)  added 5 percent, and Ford
Motor Co. advanced 13 percent as of the June 24 close of trading
in New York and Frankfurt.  “Akio has been tested like no other CEO of Toyota in the
last 30 years,” said  Maryann Keller , principal at  auto industry 
consulting firm Maryann Keller & Associates in Stamford,
Connecticut. Compared to Toyoda, “the competition is
overpaid.”  Toyoda’s 2012 pay was 184 million yen ($1.9 million), a 35
percent increase from the previous year, according to a filing
with Japan’s  Finance Ministry  yesterday. The carmaker’s outlook
for increasing profit prompted Toyota in March to approve the
biggest bonus for workers since 2008.  Mulally, Winterkorn  Alan Mulally , Ford’s chief and the best paid among the top
five, took home $21 million in 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Martin Winterkorn , VW’s chief executive, was paid
14.5 million euros ($19 million) and  Dieter Zetsche  got 8.15
million euros at VW’s German rival Daimler. Dan Akerson of GM,
the Detroit carmaker  part owned  by the U.S. and Canadian
governments, received $11 million.  That doesn’t mean Toyoda is just scraping by. He controls
0.13 percent  in shares  of the family carmaker, valued at $256
million. That stake generated a dividend worth about $4.2
million in the year ended in March.  Salaries and bonuses for leaders at Japanese corporations
lag behind global levels, said Edwin Merner, president of
Atlantis Investment Research Corp. in Tokyo, which manages about
$3 billion in assets.  Great-Grandfather’s Loom  Nissan Motor Co.’s  Carlos Ghosn , among Japan’s highest-paid
CEOs, earned 988 million yen in the year ended March 2013,
little changed from the previous year. That wouldn’t even put
him among the  top 100  U.S. company chiefs, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Japanese executives aren’t paid enough,” Merner said.
Companies “don’t want to create jealous feelings.”  In 2010, Toyoda -- who races sportscars and knows how to
work the automatic loom his great-grandfather invented --
rejected his bonus pay after a recall of more than 8 million
cars worldwide led to a U.S. Congressional hearing. The cut
brought his annual compensation to less than 100 million yen,
the lowest among Japan’s three largest automakers for the year.  “I was feeling enormous pressure and was full of anxiety
as I went in to bring up the rear of this losing battle,” he
said at the company’s annual meeting that year.  Tsunami Damage  By March 2011, Toyoda had steered the company past the
recall crisis and laid out a plan to restore  profitability  and
Toyota’s reputation for quality. Then a magnitude-9 earthquake
and a tsunami hit Japan, disrupting output for months. Before
the company could fully recover from the quake, flooding in
 Thailand  -- Toyota’s southeast Asian manufacturing hub --
worsened parts shortages, making it more difficult to restore
production.  Toyoda revamped the company’s business continuity plan,
gathering information on suppliers down to the third-tier to
ensure alternate sources for parts. A quicker-than-forecast
return to full output, six months after the earthquake, marked
the beginning of Toyota’s turnaround and a rally in its shares.  Much of Toyota’s gain has come as investors pour money into
shares of Japanese exporters, expecting them to benefit from the
yen’s 14 percent drop versus the dollar in the past six months
as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has sought to weaken the currency.  China Riots  Each one-yen decline in the Japanese currency’s value
against the dollar adds about 35 billion yen to Toyota’s
operating profit, or about 140 billion yen in the year ended
March 31, based on the average  exchange rate  in the period
versus a year earlier.  The currency shift makes it easier for Japanese carmakers
to compete on price in the U.S. and Europe, where Toyota, Nissan
and Honda Motor Co. have been losing market share to South
Korea’s Hyundai Motor Co. and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)   Still, while Toyota sold the most cars worldwide last year,
VW’s annual profit was more than double the Japanese
automaker’s. In  China , a territorial dispute led to boycotts of
Japanese cars in September. Toyota sales in the country fell
last year even as the protests subsided and GM and Volkswagen
deliveries increased.  Toyoda also has work to do in the U.S., where the Camry,
the best-selling midsize car in the country every year since
2002, was outsold for two straight months in its segment. In the
three months ended in March, GM,  Ford (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC
also gained U.S. market share -- the first quarter since 1993 in
which the three biggest American automakers managed to claim a
bigger piece of the market. And GM has unseated Toyota in J.D.
Power & Associates’ initial quality survey.  Less Bullish  By certain measures, investors have become less bullish on
Toyota this year. The company’s shares are now valued at 11
times estimated earnings, compared with 14 times at the end of
December, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. Toyota
now trades at a 23 percent premium to GM on a dollar basis,
compared with a 66 percent premium at the end of last year, the
price-earnings ratio data show.  For help managing the issues the company faces, Toyoda has
turned to longtime colleague and GM veteran Mark Hogan, 61,
naming him to the company’s board -- Toyota’s first non-Japanese
director since 2007. Hogan’s ties to Toyoda stretch back
decades, when both worked at a now-defunct Toyota-GM joint
venture plant in  California .  Hogan “knows our local management,” Toyoda told reporters
on March 6. “And since he has worked for companies outside of
Toyota, I am sure he’ll help us make better management
decisions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  