-- HP to IBM May Be First Customers for New SK Hynix Chips
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-06-25T08:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/hp-ibm-may-be-first-customers-for-sk-hynix-s-new-memory-chips.html
SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest maker of memory chips, said its newest semiconductors
for mobile devices and laptops will be available first to
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Toshiba Corp. (6502)  also may be among the initial customers since
the three companies partner with SK Hynix on the development of
next-generation chips, Lee Jung Hoon, head of the Korean
company’s Advanced Device & Process Integration division, said
in an interview. The chips would be offered to those companies
starting in 2015 at the earliest, he said.  SK Hynix, a supplier to Apple Inc., is focusing on more
advanced technologies to boost earnings as stalling demand for
personal computers depresses prices for cheaper chips. The
Icheon, South Korea-based company teamed with U.S. computer
makers to develop resistive random access memory, or ReRam,
which may replace the  flash memory  used in smartphones and
tablet computers.  “Whether it will be mass-produced or not will depend on
its cost-competitiveness in the market,” Lee said. “It will
only happen in 2015 at the earliest.”  The company has been unprofitable in four of the past five
years as chip prices slump. SK Hynix said April 24 it posted
first-quarter profit of 178.7 billion won ($154 million) in the
three months ended March after losing 271 billion won a year
earlier.  DRAM Prices  SK Hynix  shares  fell 0.8 percent to 29,500 won at the close
in Seoul today while the benchmark Kospi index fell 1 percent.
The stock has gained 16 percent this year,  compared  with an 11
percent decline in the Kospi.  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM rose to
$1.93 yesterday from $1.02 a year earlier, according to
TrendForce Corp.’s DRAMeXchange, Asia’s largest market for the
components.  SK Hynix teamed with Toshiba in 2011 to jointly develop the
next-generation dynamic random access memory or, DRAM, chips
that are mostly used for PCs. It also struck a technology
license agreement with IBM in June 2012 for the development of
new technology.  “PC demand is falling these days, they have to shift their
focus to mobile chips,” said Nam Dae Jong, an analyst at Hana
Daetoo Securities Co. in Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  