-- Pakistan to Pursue Treason Charges Against Pervez Musharraf
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-06-24T10:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/pakistan-s-sharif-to-pursue-treason-charges-against-musharraf.html
Pakistan ’s government will support
treason charges against former military dictator  Pervez Musharraf  for suspending the country’s constitution in 2007,
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said in parliament today.  “Musharraf has to answer for his actions,” Sharif told
lawmakers, adding his administration would submit a response
today as the  Supreme Court  hears petitions to put the ex-army
chief on trial. His deeds “constitute an act of high treason,”
said Sharif, who was elected in May for a record third term, 14
years after Musharraf ousted him in a military coup.  Musharraf is facing charges in several cases, including
subverting the constitution with his emergency decree six years
ago and over the deaths of former Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto 
and a separatist leader. Pakistani law requires the federal
government to register a complaint against the accused to
proceed with a treason charge.  Musharraf returned to Pakistan in March after more than
four years living in self-imposed exile as he bid to contest the
May 11 general election. He was arrested in Islamabad in April a
day after fleeing a court where judges had revoked a bail
agreement secured before Musharraf landed in Pakistan. Election
officials barred him from participating in the poll.  “The  Nawaz Sharif  government is demonstrating recklessness
in its intention to pursue unwarranted treason charges against
the former president Musharraf,” Raza Bokhari, his spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The emergency was proclaimed on
the request of the government of Pakistan, both at the federal
and provincial level” with the consent of the then prime
minister and army commanders, Bokhari said in the statement.  The general removed Sharif in a 1999 bloodless coup after a
dispute over an occupation of Indian-controlled territory in
Kashmir. He left office in 2008 as parliament threatened to
bring impeachment charges against him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  