-- Patient Drug Lawsuits Curbed by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-06-24T21:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/patient-drug-suits-curbed-as-u-s-supreme-court-backs-takeda.html
(Corrects to reflect Takeda sold Mutual after court agreed
to hear case, and that Obama administration supported Mutual.)  The U.S. Supreme Court reinforced
its bar on lawsuits by patients against generic-drug makers,
overturning a $21 million award to a woman who suffered
debilitating injuries after taking a generic painkiller.  The justices, voting 5-4, said the federal drug-approval
regime prevented Karen L. Bartlett from claiming the
medication’s design was unreasonably dangerous in violation of
New Hampshire product-liability law. Bartlett sued Mutual
Pharmaceutical Co., a drugmaker sold earlier this year by  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)  to  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP)   The decision extends a 2011 Supreme Court ruling that
barred patients from suing generic-drug companies using a
different legal theory -- failure to warn about dangerous side
effects.  The court in the earlier case said those suits are “pre-empted” because federal law requires generic-drug companies to
copy the packaging inserts used by brand-name manufacturers. The
court said it would be impossible for drug companies to comply
with both federal labeling requirements and state-imposed duties
to supply even stronger warnings.  In the latest case, a federal appeals court had said it
wasn’t impossible for Mutual to comply with both state and
federal law. The appeals court said Mutual “certainly can
choose not to make the drug at all.”  The Supreme Court majority today disagreed with that
reasoning.  Alito Opinion  “Our pre-emption cases presume that an actor seeking to
satisfy both his federal- and state-law obligations is not
required to cease acting altogether in order to avoid
liability,” Justice  Samuel Alito  wrote for the majority.  Alito said Bartlett’s lawsuit implicitly claimed that
Mutual should have changed the warnings on its packaging inserts
-- something it is barred from doing under federal law.  Justices Stephen Breyer,  Elena Kagan ,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg 
and  Sonia Sotomayor  dissented.  People who take generic drugs ultimately might win the
right to sue through a regulatory change. The Food and Drug
Administration is considering giving generic-drug makers the
power to change their package inserts and include new or
stronger warnings. That shift could open generic-drug companies
to suits for inadequate warnings, the  Justice Department  said in
court papers.  Pharmaceutical Association  The Generic Pharmaceutical Association, an industry trade
group, backed Mutual in the case, as did generic-drug makers
 Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) ,  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
and  Mylan Inc. (MYL)   The Obama administration supported Mutual, urging the court
to throw out the award.  Bartlett suffered what the appeals court called “truly
horrific” injuries after taking sulindac, a generic painkiller
made by Mutual, for shoulder pain. The anti-inflammatory
medicine triggered an allergic reaction that caused Bartlett to
lose more than 60 percent of her outer skin layer.  Bartlett spent months in a medically induced coma, spent a
year being tube-fed and endured 12 eye surgeries. She is almost
blind, can’t eat normally because of esophageal burns, can’t
have sex because of vaginal injuries and can’t engage in aerobic
activities because of lung injuries. A federal jury in  New
Hampshire  issued the award in 2009.  Takeda is based in Osaka, Japan, while Sun is based in
Mumbai.  The case is Mutual Pharmaceutical Co. v. Bartlett, 12-142.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  