-- PBOC Opaque Stress Test Catches Funds in Crossfire
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   A l a n   W o n g
-- 2013-06-25T09:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/pboc-opaque-stress-test-catches-funds-in-crossfire-china-credit.html
China ’s lack of transparency during
a  stress test  on the nation’s banks became a cause of worldwide
concern as it rocked bond and commodity markets and helped wipe
out $4.5 trillion in global equity value.  While the  Federal Reserve  is signaling plans to pare
stimulus that has kept U.S. overnight rates close to zero, the
People’s Bank of China made no change to its goal of “prudent”
monetary policy as borrowing costs whip-sawed. Chinese overnight
rates jumped to a record 12.85 percent on June 20 amid
speculation policy makers want to expose banks with mismatched
financing and loan maturities. Asian emerging market  stocks  had
their steepest weekly loss in 13 months, while their currencies
dropped the most in almost two years.  “Investors globally are in the crossfire when the central
bank punishes financial institutions with monetary policy for
lending behavior the PBOC should have prevented,” said Andrew Elofson, a Seattle-based senior research analyst at DA Davison &
Co., which has more than $34 billion in client assets under
management and invests in U.S. shares that benefit from Chinese
growth. “Allowing liquidity to dry up to communicate your
message strikes us as a dangerous game.”  China’s cabinet, led by Premier  Li Keqiang , said last week
that finance companies must do more to support economic
transformation and reduce risks, after administrative measures
to crack down on property prices and local government
investments were bypassed by so-called shadow banking
activities. While the goal is to limit financial risk, the
execution created confusion and panic, Elofson said. Global
banks are seeking more timely releases on the PBOC’s open-market
operations to all market participants.  Lack of Communication  “Behind the scenes, I can almost guarantee that the level
of discussions between the PBOC and bank CEOs was probably quite
intense in Beijing over the past few days,” Adrian Zuercher,
head of emerging-market strategy at Credit Suisse (Hong Kong)
Ltd., part of an asset management unit of Credit Suisse Group AG
that oversees $450 billion, said in a June 20 interview. “But
we haven’t seen big actions or communications yet. It could go
out to the public and should be communicated properly to the
financial markets.”  The central bank made no official comment on the changes in
rates last week and didn’t respond to faxed questions from
 Bloomberg News . Yesterday, the PBOC published a statement dated
June 17 in which it said there’s a reasonable amount of
liquidity in the financial system and that banks should control
risks from credit expansion, including those associated with
maturity mismatches.  Controllable Risks  China’s liquidity risks are controllable and the central
bank will closely monitor rates, Ling Tao, deputy director of
the PBOC’s  Shanghai  branch, said at a briefing in Shanghai
today. The PBOC will keep money-market rates at a reasonable
level and seasonal forces that have driven them up will fade,
the official said.  Speculation and denials filled the vacuum last week. The
PBOC used reverse-repurchase agreements to inject funds into
designated banks, financial news website Hexun reported June 21,
citing a person close to the PBOC.  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. (601398)  said later the same day that media reports
claiming it received 50 billion yuan ($8.1 billion) of liquidity
were “untrue.” Bank of China Ltd. also denied a 21st Century
Business Herald report that it missed interbank payments on June
20.  Clear Rules  The PBOC should clearly explain its stance to stabilize
market confidence, and provide clear rules so that investors and
banks know the target and time period of financial adjustments,
Hexun said in a  commentary  today.  “We need to have more transparency and communication with
the financial market,” said Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based chief
China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “There are a lot of
rumors in the markets, and so even more volatility.”  The  yield  on China’s 10-year government bonds rose 13 basis
points to 3.60 percent last week, while the one-year borrowing
cost surged 51 basis points to 3.61 percent, inverting the so-called yield curve for the first time in ChinaBond data going
back to 2007.  Currencies to Stocks  The  yuan  declined 0.4 percent from its 19-year high of
6.1210 per dollar reached on May 27 in Shanghai. It was steady
at 6.1453 today. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia   Dollar Index 
slumped 1.2 percent last week, the most since September 2011.
The MSCI EM Asia Index of stocks lost 4.4 percent last week, the
biggest drop since the five days ended May 18, 2012, helping
erode  global stock  market capitalization from the post-financial
crisis peak of $57.98 trillion.  Speculation over the PBOC’s short-term liquidity
operations, which are agreed on with large banks and disclosed a
month later, helped cut money market rates in the past two days.
The one-day  repo  rate has slid 685 basis points, or 6.85
percentage points, since an all-time high of 12.85 percent June
20, according to a daily fixing announced by the National
Interbank Funding Center at 11 a.m. The gauge was 6 percent
today, almost double this year’s average of 3.09 percent.  “Having now stepped back in to provide liquidity, perhaps
the PBOC has made its point and there will be minimal fallout
from the cash squeeze,” DA Davison’s Elofson said in a June 21
e-mail interview. “But investors would be wise to assume more
tail risk in China.”  Tone Change  Rates also fell on a change in tone in a statement released
yesterday, following a “recent” second-quarter policy meeting
in Beijing. For the first time since September the PBOC’s
monetary policy committee, led by Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan , used
the phrase “fine-tune.”  “I can’t see any disadvantage of transparency,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe General SA in  Hong Kong .
“The timing of disclosure of short-term liquidity operations
may be shortened compared to the one-month lag now. Even if
earlier disclosure might create some market volatility, that
should be overshadowed by the benefit of a credible and
transparent system.”  Risk is rising in China’s financial system as the shadow
banking sector expands and financial institutions make more
highly leveraged investments to boost profit, the official
Xinhua News Agency said in an analysis published on June 23.
 Aggregate financing , a measure of credit that includes trust
loans, stock and bond sales, totaled 9.1 trillion yuan in the
last five months, a surge of 50 percent from the first five
months of 2012.  Default Risk  The cost of protecting China’s five-year government debt
from default jumped 33 basis points to 127 basis points last
week in  New York , according to prices from data provider CMA.
The gauge climbed to 147 yesterday, the highest since January
2012. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if they let one of the smaller
financial institutions go,” Ayaz Ebrahim, a Hong Kong-based
chief investment officer of Asia ex-Japan equities at Amundi
Asset Management, which oversees about $1 trillion around the
world, said in an interview yesterday. The government is not
going to allow any of the big banks to fail, he added.  Bond Sales  The cash squeeze unsettled corporate treasurers and led to
a slump in domestic bond sales. Issuance dropped to 175 billion
yuan in June, the least in 17 months and down 52 percent from
May, data compiled by Bloomberg show. China Development Bank
Corp., the nation’s biggest policy lender, scrapped a bond sale
planned for today.  “With the credit tightening and uncertainties on monetary
policy, we will adjust our financing methods accordingly,” said
Zhu Kebing, chief financial officer of Baoshan Iron & Steel Co.,
China’s biggest publicly traded steelmaker.  China International Capital Corp. cut its 2013 forecast for
expansion in Asia’s biggest economy to 7.4 percent from 7.7
percent, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its projection
to 7.4 percent from 7.8 percent. Growth held below 8 percent for
each of the past four quarters, the first time that has happened
in at least 20 years, official data show.  “The PBOC’s policy transparency is less than the market
has learned to expect from the Fed or ECB, but it is all we are
likely to get until China gets closer to a real financial market
onshore,” said Marshall Mays, director of Emerging Alpha
Advisors in Hong Kong, which advises funds on investments of
about $100 million. “There is still more of an outsider
disadvantage than in some other markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Wong in Hong Kong at 
 awong478@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  