-- Pfizer’s Animal Health Stock Exchange Offer Has Too Many Takers
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-06-24T15:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/pfizer-s-animal-health-stock-exchange-offer-has-too-many-takers.html
Investors in  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the
world’s biggest drugmaker, oversubscribed to a program to
exchange some or all of their shares for those of its former
animal-health unit,  Zoetis Inc. (ZTS)   Pfizer will retire about 405 million shares, or about $11.4
billion worth, at today’s price, as investors tried to exchange
more Pfizer shares than there was Zoetis stock. Shareholders
will get 24 percent of the 1.68 billion shares tendered.  The share exchange completes the New York-based company’s
restructuring plan, in which it dropped two non-drug units, the
animal health business and an infant nutrition line. Zoetis
began trading as a separate company on February 1, surging 19
percent in its debut after raising $2.24 billion in an initial
public offering. As a result of the spinoff completion, the
company expects adjusted earnings of $2.10 to $2.20 a share,
from a  previous  projected range of $2.14 to $2.24, according to
its statement today.  Pfizer offered investors the Zoetis stock at a 5.4 percent
discount. For every $100 of Pfizer stock traded in, they’ll get
$105 of Zoetis shares in return, which Pfizer gave as an
incentive to participate in the exchange.  Zoetis is based in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , and makes and
sells drugs and treatments for animals. Livestock products make
up 65 percent of its sales, while medicines for pets account for
the rest. Much of the company’s growth depends on rising wealth
levels around the world, as people eat more meat and care for
companion animals.  Board Appointment  The company today also said it appointed Michael McCallister, a former chief executive officer at the Louisville,
Kentucky-based health insurer Humana Inc. as Zoetis’s non-executive chairman. He replaces Chief Financial Officer Frank D’Amelio, who will remain on the Zoetis board.  Zoetis shares fell 1.8 percent to $30.05 at 10:25 a.m. in
 New York . Pfizer declined by less than 1 percent to $28.20  Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  is now deciding whether to
split the company in two to separate its generic drug’s
business. The split could happen in the next three years.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley managed the deal. Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP acted as legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Samuel Adams in New York at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  