-- Portugal Yields Need Draghi to Keep His OMT Promise
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-06-25T13:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/portugal-yields-need-draghi-to-keep-his-omt-promise-euro-credit.html
Portugal ’s  10-year bond yield  jumped
more than a percentage point in the past month to levels that
may test  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge
to buy bonds of crisis-torn countries.  Portugal pays 6.9 percent to borrow for a decade, up from a
six-month average of 6.07 percent and more than double the
average interest rate of 3.2 percent that it pays for its aid
loans.  Two-year funding costs  have soared to 3.6 percent from as
low as 2.4 percent during the first week of May.  Draghi has pledged Outright Monetary Transactions to cap
yields with unlimited secondary-market debt purchases for
countries either in an economic adjustment program or entering
one. Almost a year after he revealed the plan, no country has
asked for help as Portuguese rates renew their climb.  “Borrowing costs are much higher than the economy can
stand in the long term, it isn’t sustainable,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in  London . Implementing the OMT “would
certainly help accelerate the process of being in a position to
borrow at sustainable levels,” he said.  Bonds tumbled around the world last week after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said U.S. policy makers may end
asset purchases in mid-2014. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield, a
benchmark for sovereign borrowing costs, has risen to 2.5
percent from as low as 1.63 percent at the start of last month.  Draghi, speaking in Berlin today, defended the ECB’s as-yet-unused bond-purchase program, signaling its presence may
help curb volatility. “OMT is even more essential now as we see
potential changes in the monetary policy stance with associated
uncertainty in other jurisdictions of the integrated global
economy,” he said.  Shrinking Economy  In  Portugal (GSPT10YR) , the government projects gross domestic product
will contract 2.3 percent this year before growing 0.6 percent
next year. The jobless rate will climb to 18.2 percent in 2013
and 18.5 percent in 2014 from 15.7 percent at the end of last
year.  “Portugal is regaining full-market access and full-market
access will guarantee the eligibility for the OMT program,”
Manuel Rodrigues, the secretary of state for finance, said in a
June 4 Bloomberg Television interview from  New York . “We are
working on ensuring that we are eligible for this program.”  The nation’s poor fiscal and growth prospects mean it will
probably request at least a precautionary  credit line  from the
European Stability Mechanism following the 78 billion-euro ($102
billion) bailout from the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund ,  Ricardo Santos , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London, said June 17 in a telephone interview. That should make
Portugal’s assets eligible for ECB OMT buying.  Market Yields  The EU is reviewing possible “precautionary arrangements”
that might help Ireland and Portugal exit their aid programs,
Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn told European
Parliament lawmakers in Brussels on June 17. Ireland probably
will apply for such a facility, two people familiar with the
matter said June 20. Irish 10-year yields are about 4.3 percent,
up from an average this year of 3.82 percent.  “A low borrowing rate will likely only be achieved through
some new loan arrangement,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of
European rates strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris.
“Market yields today, even if down sharply over the past year,
are just simply too high to prevent Ireland’s and Portugal’s
debt burdens from continuing to spiral upwards, in the absence
of much if any growth.”  Portugal sold 10-year debt last month for the first time in
more than two years as yields on the country’s existing bonds
were at the lowest since 2010 and a decline in  interest rates 
worldwide led investors to seek higher-yielding assets. The
country stopped selling bonds until this year after requesting
the bailout in April 2011.  Fragmented Markets  Abebe Aemro Selassie, head of the International Monetary
Fund’s mission to Portugal, told reporters on a June 13 call
that it was urgent that market “fragmentation and high lending
rates in Portugal” be addressed as soon as possible.  Selassie said the ECB’s OMT was one option, adding that any
help the central bank could give that bolsters the access of
small- and medium-sized companies to credit was “key.”  “The OMT doesn’t have to be active, we don’t actually have
to see the ECB buying bonds, but if that is taken away or
softened it might make things harder for Portugal,” said  David Schnautz , a strategist at Commerzbank AG in New York. “Portugal
needs some kind of backstop.”  Portuguese President Anibal  Cavaco Silva  has urged Draghi
to help the country emerge from recession and an aid program by
buying the country’s debt in the secondary market and improving
the financing conditions and access to credit for small
businesses.  Euro Threat  “I believe Portugal qualifies for secondary-market
intervention for public debt, which the European Central Bank at
one point said they would be able to carry out,” Cavaco Silva
told reporters June 12 at the European Parliament in Strasbourg,
 France . A “fragmentation” in the credit markets is
“threatening the integrity of the European currency,” he said.  Schnautz at Commerzbank said investors seemed to have lost
their focus on the importance of European lenders having agreed
to extend the maturities of the country’s bailout loans, which
may help drive down yields. A final decision on this was taken
by the euro-area finance ministers June 21 in Luxembourg.  Schnautz sees Portugal coming back to the primary  bond
market  in September. “Issuance needs to remain opportunistic,
there needs to be some degree of freedom to do it when the
market is ready,” he said.  “The OMT isn’t the only tool in
town. From the market’s perspective, it’s the best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  