-- China Tempts Pratt as Engine Makers Seek New Customers
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-24T20:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/pratt-woos-china-as-engine-makers-look-beyond-boeing-airbus-jets.html
Pratt & Whitney (UTX)  said it’s working
with Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China Ltd. on proposals for a
new wide-body jet after Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS, the biggest
planemakers, opted for other  power plants .  Pratt, the engine division of United Technologies Corp., is
promoting a higher-thrust version of the geared-turbofan it has
developed for the single-aisle Airbus SAS A320 and  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B)  CSeries models, President David Hess said in an interview.  “They might see applications for the engine on one of the
aircraft they have on the drawing board,” Hess said last week
at the  Paris Air Show .  Winning work on a future Chinese wide-body would be a boost
for Pratt, which hasn’t offered its own engine for that class of
planes since the 1987 debut of a model used on Boeing 747s, 767s
and Airbus A330s. It would support United Technologies Chief
Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert ’s focus on aviation after
buying Goodrich Corp. for $16.5 billion in 2012.  Comac “will probably become the fifth important player”
in planemaking after Boeing, Airbus, Bombardier and  Embraer SA (EMBR3) ,
Chenevert said at the air show. “Every new platform is an
opportunity.”  Pratt’s only recent win for engines on long-range planes
came via an accord with  General Electric Co. (GE)  to power the Airbus
A380. GE has sole rights for engines on the 747-8 and a similar
deal for the future 777X, from which Pratt dropped out, and
competes with  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  on the 787. U.K.-based
Rolls-Royce provides an alternative engine for the A380 and
currently has exclusivity on the Airbus A350.  Wide-Body Study  While Comac is currently focused on the C919 short-haul
plane, the Shanghai-based company said June 5 that a pre-study
into a possible wide-body model was under way, adding last week
in an e-mailed response to questions that “it’s still too early
to get foreign suppliers involved.”  GE, the world’s largest engine maker, is aware of the Comac
studies, according to Bill Fitzgerald, vice president for
commercial engine operations. The company is “not in detailed
discussions,” he said.  Tony Wood, Rolls-Royce’s new head of  aircraft engines , said
the company has “close relations” with all major airframers.
In Comac’s case, “we know them and we will stay close on their
emerging requirement,” he said at the Paris show.  A wide-body venture in China would build on steps that have
seen the country become Rolls-Royce’s third-largest market,
swollen by a marine unit that Wood used to head. The
manufacturer also has a major maintenance facility in  Hong Kong 
to support local airlines.  While China aims to make its own turbines, progress on the
CJ1000, designed for the C919, has been slow, said Egon Behle,
CEO of Germany’s MTU Aero Engines AG, which is assisting the
project through technology studies with Comac’s AVIC Commercial
Aircraft Engine. “We’re not expecting quick results.”  Wide-body planes offer higher margins than single-aisle
aircraft, and  China  isn’t the only source of new business on the
horizon. Russia’s United Aircraft Corp. also is contemplating a
200- to 300-seat plane, CEO Mikhail Pogosyan said at the Paris
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in Paris at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in Paris at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  