-- Putin Drafts Central Banker Ulyukayev as Economy Minister
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-06-24T08:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/putin-drafts-central-banker-ulyukayev-as-economy-minister.html
President Vladimir Putin named
 Alexei Ulyukayev , a central bank first deputy chairman, to take
charge of  Russia ’s Economy Ministry and moved the current
minister, Andrei Belousov, to the Kremlin as his aide.  The Kremlin announced the shuffle today as Elvira
Nabiullina, previously the Kremlin economic aide, begins her
first day as central bank chairman. Ulyukayev, who oversaw
monetary policy for former Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev
for nine years, was passed over for the top job after Putin said
in March that his choice would be “unexpected.”  Putin is struggling to halt a slowdown in the economy as a
recession in  Europe , which accounts for half of Russian trade,
and weaker growth in  China  sap demand for exports of energy and
metals. Russia will invest 450 billion rubles ($14 billion) from
one of its sovereign wealth funds into infrastructure, tie
tariff growth to inflation and take steps to lower lending rates
and encourage encourage borrowing, Putin said last week.  “These changes show that stimulating the economy and
accelerating economic growth are becoming the top priority for
 Vladimir Putin ,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP
Paribas SA in Moscow, said by phone. “Ulyukayev’s appointment
is very logical because of his extremely diverse experience,
both in the  Finance Ministry  and the central bank.”  Belousov, who took over for Nabiullina as economy minister
in May 2012, had previously served as the head of the government
economy and finance department during Putin’s four years as
prime minister. Three government officials said in April he
would probably join the Kremlin as economic aide.  ‘Strategic Path’  Ulyukayev, 57, joined the central bank as a first deputy
chairman in 2004 after serving as as a first deputy finance
minister with Ignatiev. He has opposed calls from the
government, including Belousov, to lower lending rates to
stimulate economic growth before inflation slows.  The ruble weakened 0.5 percent against the dollar to 32.94
as of 12:15 p.m. in Moscow. The Micex Index of 50 stocks
declined 0.2 percent to 1,296.44.  “I want to stress that the strategic path we’ve chosen
will remain unchanged,” Putin told attendees at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum on June 21. “We’ll
follow this policy regardless of personnel shuffles at the
central bank and among economic policy makers in the
presidential administration and Cabinet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  