-- Qantas Ordered by Judge to Turn Over Passenger List
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-06-24T02:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/qantas-ordered-by-judge-to-turn-over-passenger-list.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  must turn over
the passenger list of a 2010 flight to an employee who is suing
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc over an engine explosion on that trip,
a judge ruled.  New South  Wales   Supreme Court  Justice Robert Beech-Jones
said the manifest, including passengers’ names, addresses and
phone numbers, will allow the employee to determine how many
people may become members of the group lawsuit. That will enable
proceedings to be carried out more efficiently, the judge wrote
in his  June 19 ruling .  Part of a Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engine casing blew off
shortly after the A380 plane left  Singapore  on Nov. 4, 2010,
sending shrapnel through a wing and fuselage, according to a
 preliminary report  by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau.
None of the 469 people on board was physically injured in the
incident, which led Qantas to ground its entire fleet of the
Airbus SAS jet for more than three weeks.  Sandy Lam, 31, a flight attendant, claimed to have suffered
post-traumatic stress disorder and a “major depressive
disorder,” according to the judge. Lam sued seeking unspecified
damages on behalf of all people on board the aircraft who
suffered psychological injury.  The judge rejected Qantas’s assertion that the demand for
the passenger list was premature and a “fishing expedition” by
Lam, according to the ruling.  “The entire concept of an opt-out representative action
involves a form of ‘fishing,’ because plaintiffs don’t know how
many people involved will be in similar circumstances,” Beech-Jones wrote. “The obtainment of details from the passenger
manifest facilitates those matters being ascertained earlier and
more cheaply.”  The engine explosion was caused by an oil leak and
subsequent fire, according to the safety regulator’s report.
 Rolls-Royce (RR/)  has revised procedures since the incident, it said.  The case is Sandy Lam v. Rolls Royce Plc. 2013/37342.
Supreme Court of New South Wales (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  