-- Emir Abdicates as Energy-Rich Qatar Set for New Era
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-06-25T12:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/qatar-s-emir-to-hand-over-power-to-son-al-jazeera-says-1-.html
Qatar’s Emir  Sheikh Hamad  Bin Khalifa Al Thani, who stripped his father of the title in a 1995
coup, today handed that power to his son, saying the moment for
new leadership in the world’s richest country had arrived.  “The time has come to turn a new page in our country’s
journey and see a new generation assume responsibility,” Sheikh
Hamad said in an address to the nation. The outgoing ruler and
his son, Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al Thani, later stood side by
side as citizens lined up to pledge their allegiance.  Sheikh Tamim, 33, assumes leadership of a country of 1.9
million people that has developed into a regional power during
his father’s 18-year reign. The emirate bought stakes in
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-biggest bank, and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
Europe’s largest carmaker. It supported uprisings in Syria and
Libya and has lent $8 billion to Egypt since the ouster of
President  Hosni Mubarak .  The outgoing emir and his prime minister, Hamad Bin Jassim
Al Thani, “put Qatar on the map,”  Shadi Hamid , director of
research at the  Brookings Institution ’s Doha Center, said
by phone from the Qatari capital. “There might be some shifts
in emphasis and tinkering around the margins, but the main
thrust of Qatari foreign policy will continue.”  Voluntary Abdication  Sheikh Tamim graduated from the U.K.’s Royal Military
Academy Sandhurst in 1998 after leaving Sherborne School in
England a year earlier, according to the official palace
website. The fourth son of Sheikh Hamad, he has steadily
acquired power since being appointed crown prince in 2003. He
served as chairman of the Qatar Investment Authority, the
country’s primary sovereign wealth fund, and headed Qatar’s
failed bid for the 2020 Olympics.  “Historic day for Qatar as new generation takes over,”
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  wrote on Twitter.  Sheikh Tamim inherits power from an emir who transformed
Qatar into a regional leader from a fragile, debt-ridden Persian
Gulf emirate. Sheikh Hamad ruled as the country’s economy grew
sevenfold and its population more than tripled. He introduced
municipal elections and, a year after assuming power, started  Al
Jazeera , the Doha-based news network that now operates
worldwide.  Today’s announcement marks the first voluntary abdication
in the emirate since 1960. Sheikh Hamad, 61 this year, overthrew
his father, Sheikh Khalifa Bin Hamad Al Thani, in a bloodless
coup almost two decades ago. Sheikh Khalifa had deposed his
cousin in 1972.  World Cup  Sheikh Tamim will lead Qatar’s effort to expand
infrastructure before the 2022 soccer  World Cup  even as gas
exports level off and economic growth slows. The country plans
to build a $35 billion rail network as well as a new port,
highways and stadiums.  Qatar, holder of the third-largest gas reserves, produces
about 30 percent of the world’s supply of liquefied natural gas,
which is chilled for transport by ship. Exports of the fuel gave
Qatar the largest per capita gross domestic product in the
world, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The country
plans to spend $200 billion on infrastructure before hosting the
most-watched sporting event.  Setbacks  Under the outgoing emir, Qatar has also taken on an
increasingly prominent foreign-policy role. It’s providing
financial and military aid to the rebels seeking to oust Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, hosting proposed talks among the
Taliban, the Afghan government and U.S. officials, and backing
Hamas in Gaza.  There were setbacks, too. In Syria, peaceful protests that
started in 2011 have devolved into a bloody civil war. The
emirate’s support for the opposition was undermined by the rebel
loss of the strategic city of al-Qusair in early June.  In Libya, where the emirate sent fighter jets to join NATO
against Qaddafi in 2011, Qatar’s flag and effigies of the emir
were burned last month by protesters in Benghazi who accused
Qatar of funding the  Muslim Brotherhood . Qatari flags were also
burned in Egypt, the Al Ahram newspaper said on April 20.  “It would be good for Qatar to go back to being quiet
again,” Michael Stephens, a researcher at the  Royal United
Services Institute  in Doha, said in a phone interview. “Half
the Arab world hates Qatar right now.”  Slowing Growth  Economic growth slowed to 6.2 percent last year from 17
percent in 2010, according to a report in May by Qatar National
Bank SAQ, the country’s largest lender.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  estimates
Qatar’s budget surplus will turn to a deficit by 2015. Money
from the sovereign wealth fund will start diminishing and some
investments may be sold to finance the government, Farouk Soussa, the bank’s Dubai-based chief  Middle East  economist said
on May 20.  Qatar Holding LLC, the foreign investment arm of the
sovereign wealth fund, said on June 17 it sold its 10 percent
stake in Porsche Automobile Holding SE to the Porsche-Piech
family. The fund holds stakes in  Total SA (FP) ,  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) ,  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  and owns outright Harrods department store in
London.  The emirate’s credit risk was little changed yesterday,
rising three basis points to 88, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Abu Dhabi ’s credit default swaps gained five basis
points to 85. The two emirates are rated AA by  Standard &
Poor’s , the third-highest investment grade.  The rating won’t be “immediately affected” by the
transition, S&P said in a statement. “We expect executive power
to remain concentrated in the hands of the emir,” the rating
company said.  Qatar’s gross domestic product will expand 5.2 percent in
2014, faster than  Saudi Arabia  and the United Arab Emirates, the
biggest Arab economies, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  Its foreign policy won’t change much under Sheikh Tamim,
who will probably consult his father, said Ghanem Nuseibeh, the
London-based founder of Cornerstone Global Associates.  “This is a bit of internal housekeeping,” Nuseibeh said
in a phone interview. “We’re unlikely to see much change in the
way Qatar is run for the time being.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  