-- Traditional Pension Plans Can Still Work. Really.
-- B y   D a v i d   C r a n e
-- 2013-06-24T22:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/traditional-pension-plans-can-still-work-really-.html
Some hedge-fund managers recently
came under pressure from the  American Federation of Teachers  to
quit the boards of certain organizations, such as  Students First 
and the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, that favor the
elimination of public-sector defined-benefit pension plans.  Those organizations should reconsider their view. Defined-benefit plans aren’t to blame for the crushing costs of pension
liabilities in the U.S.  Defined-benefit plans are a type of pension in which an
employer promises its employees a specified monthly benefit on
retirement. With these plans, workers can count on future income
and needn’t worry about  investment risk .  These traditional retirement benefits have been
disappearing in the private sector, generally replaced by
401(k)-type plans that provide investment capital to employees
but don’t guarantee specified future benefits. Yet defined-benefit plans remain the dominant form of pension for state- and
local-government employees, including public-school teachers.  As exploding pension costs divert money from classrooms and
other public services, some free-market and school-reform
organizations have argued that education funding would be better
protected if governments moved to 401(k) plans. That would be
throwing the baby out with the bath water. Properly managed,
 defined-benefit plans  can work just fine.  The key is setting aside enough money when the promise is
made so that, with reasonably expected investment earnings on
those set-asides, there’s enough money when the promise has to
be met. The level of those set-asides, or contributions, is
based on investment-return assumptions.  Protecting Returns  Let’s say your employer makes a promise to pay you $100 in
20 years. To meet the obligation, it contributes money to a
company pension fund that invests that money with the goal of
having $100 on hand when payment to you is due. If your employer
assumes the pension fund will earn 8 percent per annum, the
amount it must contribute upfront is $21.45.  Everything works out fine if the actual return equals the
expected return. But if the pension fund earns less than that, a
deficiency is created. Because of compounding, the deficiencies
are multiples of the upfront contributions. For example, if your
employer assumed 8 percent but earned 6.6 percent per annum,
then there will be only $77.03 in the fund when payment is due.
The employer must dig into its pocket for $22.97 to make up the
difference. In total, your employer will have spent $44.42
($21.45 plus $22.97) to generate a $100 benefit for you.  If your employer had assumed 6.6 percent at the outset,
however, it would have contributed $27.85 upfront -- and nothing
more. In other words, had your employer contributed an
additional 6.4 percent from the start, its total costs would
have been 37.30 percent less.  Public plans get into trouble when politicians manipulate
investment-return assumptions to minimize upfront contributions
at the expense of creating large deficiencies down the road.
This allows elected officials to make promises without
consequences until they are long gone.  There are models of well-managed defined-benefit plans. For
example, several subsidiaries of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  offer
their employees benefits funded through assets held in pension-plan trusts. According to Berkshire’s annual report, these
assets are “generally invested with the long-term objective of
earning amounts sufficient to cover expected benefit
obligations, while assuming a prudent level of risk.”
Consistent with that objective, Berkshire assumes a 6.6 percent
rate of return -- a fraction of that assumed by most public-sector defined-benefit systems.  Unlike most politicians, evidently Berkshire’s management
is willing to suffer pain now to avoid more pain later, even
though those longer-term consequences would probably take place
after today’s managers have departed.  Retirement security is a huge issue in the U.S. People need
more, not fewer, options for supporting themselves after they
stop working. But self-serving management of public-pension
plans by short-term elected officials is threatening to remove
defined-benefit plans from the mix. For that to change, citizens
need to see that these politicians are little better than
thieves, stealing from future generations.  ( David Crane , a former financial-services executive, is a
lecturer at  Stanford University  and president of Govern for
 California , a nonpartisan government-reform group. He was an
economic adviser to California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger 
from 2004 to 2011.)  To contact the writer of this article:
David Crane in  San Francisco  at  davidgcrane@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 