-- Raj Rajaratnam Insider Conviction Upheld by Appeals Court
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-06-24T22:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/raj-rajaratnam-insider-conviction-upheld-by-appeals-court.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s conviction for directing the most extensive
insider-trading scheme in U.S. history was upheld by an appeals
court, which ruled the government’s use of wiretaps was proper.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan , in a decision
issued today, affirmed Rajaratnam’s 2011 conviction for
conspiracy and  securities fraud  and rejected his challenge to
the use of wiretaps in a securities-fraud case.  The hedge- fund manager  argued his conviction should be
vacated because prosecutors misled the lower court judge who
authorized the wiretaps in 2008. Rajaratnam, 56, claimed
prosecutors and  Federal Bureau  of Investigation agents omitted
key facts from their request for the secret recordings, called
Title III wiretaps, including the existence of an insider-trading investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  “Rajaratnam’s arguments are not persuasive,” U.S. Circuit
judges Jose Cabranes, Robert Sack and Susan Carney said in a 29-page ruling. “The record does not support the finding that the
omission of the SEC investigation in the Title III wiretap
application was made with ‘reckless disregard for the truth.’”  Telephone Conversations  The case was the first to focus exclusively on insider
trading in which U.S. investigators wiretapped their targets’
telephone conversations, a tactic used in organized-crime
probes. Jurors listened to more than 45 wiretap recordings, on
some of which Rajaratnam can be heard gathering nonpublic
information from his sources.  “Rajaratnam had been careful to exchange nearly all of his
inside information by telephone,” the panel said, quoting U.S.
District Judge  Richard Holwell ’s earlier ruling that allowed the
wiretaps to be used during Rajaratnam’s trial.  “Wiretapping is particularly appropriate when the
telephone is routinely relied on to conduct the criminal
enterprise under investigation,” the panel said. “The district
court made the point explicitly in discussing whether the
government should have pursued additional ‘normal investigative
procedures’ before seeking a Title III wiretap.’”  ‘Reckless Disregard’  Benjamin Harris, a spokesman for Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &
Feld LLP, the  law firm  that represented Rajaratnam at trial,
declined to comment on the panel’s decision.  While Holwell, who presided over the trial, found that
prosecutors may have acted with “reckless disregard” in
omitting information from the wiretap applications, he allowed
prosecutors to use the wiretaps. The appeals court today
concluded that prosecutors and agents acted properly and the
omitted information “would have only strengthened” the
request.  The ruling comes as one of the sources of Rajaratnam’s
illicit tips, former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director  Rajat Gupta , waits to hear from the same appeals court in his bid to
overturn his insider-trading conviction based on the legality of
the wiretaps.  Gupta, who was Rajaratnam’s former business partner, argues
that prosecutors shouldn’t have been allowed at his trial to use
wiretapped calls in which he wasn’t a participant. Gupta was
sentenced to two years in prison for insider trading and is free
pending his appeal.  Zvi Goffer, a former Galleon trader who worked for
Rajaratnam and was also recorded on FBI wiretaps, has also
challenged the government’s use of wiretaps. Goffer is serving
10 years at a federal prison in Lewisburg,  Pennsylvania , after
being convicted at a trial in  New York  in 2011.  Public Companies  Reed Brodsky , the former assistant U.S. attorney who
prosecuted Rajaratnam and Gupta and is now in private practice
as a partner at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, said that
Rajaratnam’s next decision is whether to appeal to the U.S.
Supreme Court.  “I think it’s a historic day, though, for the prosecution
of insider trading cases,” Brodsky said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “The court essentially said that the
government did not in any way shape or form misrepresent facts
or was reckless or intentionally omit facts from the wiretap
application.”  While he declined to say what the ruling may mean for
Gupta’s appeal, Brodsky said the appeals court’s ruling makes it
easier for the government to win  insider trading  cases because
prosecutors need only show that someone traded in a stock
knowing they had inside information.  “I think prosecutors will take an aggressive view based on
that opinion,” Brodsky said. “I certainly think it puts the
wind at the back of the U.S. Attorney’s Office in continuing to
use wiretaps if they continue to do so. I think it gives them
enormous confidence that these wiretaps will be defended
successfully on appeal.”  Portfolio Managers  To date, more than 70 people, including portfolio managers,
hedge fund analysts and employees at public companies have been
convicted of insider trading since the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s
Office and the FBI in New York started a crackdown.  Rajaratnam, who oversaw a hedge fund that was among the 10
largest in the world in the early years of the last decade, was
convicted by a jury on nine counts of securities fraud and five
counts of conspiracy. He’s serving his 11-year prison sentence
at the Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayers,  Massachusetts .  Holwell also ordered Rajaratnam to forfeit more than $53.8
million and pay a $10 million fine.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office prosecuted the fund
manager, declined to comment.  The Rajaratnam appeal is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 11-04416, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York); The Gupta
case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  