-- Treasuries a Buy on Real Yields at Two-Year High, Haverford Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-06-24T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/treasuries-a-buy-on-real-yields-at-two-year-high-haverford-says.html
After avoiding Treasuries for the
past three years, Haverford Trust Co. says the 10-year notes are
a buy as real yields have increased to the most in more than two
years.  “Inflation expectations are down and yields are up,” said
 John Donaldson , director of fixed income at the Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based company in a telephone interview yesterday,
who helps to manage $1.25 billion and started purchasing
Treasuries about 11 days ago. “That changes the equation a
little bit.”  The  real yield , the difference in 10-year note yields and
the annual inflation rate of the  consumer price index , widened
to 1.19 percentage points yesterday, the most since March 2011,
exceeding the 1.13 percentage-point average of the past decade.
The CPI rose 1.4 percent in May, down from a 2013 high of 2
percent in February.  The nominal yield on the 10-year note climbed 40 basis
points last week, the most since the start of the  Iraq war  in
2003 as investors fled the debt after the  Federal Reserve  said
it may reduce bond purchases. Yields climbed to 2.66 percent
yesterday, the highest level since August 2011.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told reporters in  Washington 
on June 19 that policy makers are prepared to begin phasing out
bond buying later this year and halt purchases around mid-2014
as long as the economy meets the central bank’s forecasts.  Yield ’Overshoot’  “For the first time in a good while, several factors line
up favorably,” Donaldson said. “The increase in real yields,
budget improvements, higher yields and also the relative value
of other sectors.”  Donaldson said he expects yields will be higher by year-end, and may reach 2.75 percent even as he predicted they will
move back a bit lower in the short term.  “This is an overshoot,” he said. “The market habitually
gets ahead of the Fed. This much pop in that time period feels
very oversold.”  The U.S. will sell $99 billion in notes this week. It is
“highly probable” that the company will buy in the secondary
markets this week, Donaldson said, adding that the company may
not buy at the auctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  