-- Trican Profit to Surge as Fracking Glut Wanes
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-06-24T20:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/trican-profit-to-surge-as-fracking-glut-wanes.html
Trican Well Service Ltd. (TCW)  and  Calfrac
Well Services Ltd. (CFW) , Canada’s largest frackers, are seen as the
biggest beneficiaries from a rebound in oilfield work during the
next year after a glut of equipment sapped profits.  The Canadian market for hydraulic fracturing, a technique
that pumps water, sand and chemicals underground to break oil
and gas from rock, is expected to lead the U.S. in a recovery,
PI Financial said. Trican and Calfrac are forecast to more than
double adjusted earnings per share next year, compared with
expected growth of 27 percent or less for the largest U.S.
fracking providers,  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a much more disciplined business in  Canada  because
of the customer, the size of the market and the number of
qualified competitors here,” Doug Ramsay, chief executive of
Calgary-based Calfrac said in a phone interview on June 20.
“You can’t just show up with a pump and a promise in Canada.”  Demand for fracking in Canada should grow an estimated 16
percent in 2014 as development ramps up in a few plays requiring
more intense oilfield services, according to a report last month
from Houston-based PacWest Consulting Partners. Trican and
Calfrac are the two largest Canadian frackers by horsepower
available. Demand in the U.S. is expected to grow 6 percent.  Shares of Trican, based in Calgary, surged 27 percent in
the year through June 21 while Calfrac gained 28 percent. That
compares with an average 3.3 percent drop for the country’s
eight largest oil producers, including Suncor Energy Inc., and a
9.1 percent gain for the broad 58-company Standard & Poor’s
Energy Index.  LNG Exports  Trican was little changed at C$14.75 at 4:10 p.m. in
Toronto today for a market value of C$2.2 billion ($2.1
billion). Calfrac fell 0.2 percent to C$30.04, for a C$1.37
billion market value.  Natural gas pockets in northern British Columbia and
Alberta are leading that turnaround, said Brian Purdy, an
analyst at Global Hunter Securities in Calgary. The number of
wells in the Montney, Horn River and Duvernay plays are growing,
he said.  Large projects planned by Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Apache
Corp. and Malaysian state-owned Petroliam Nasional Bhd. in
western Canada will help boost future activity levels as the
country looks to export liquefied natural gas to  Asia  and other
parts of the world, Ramsay said.  Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s largest energy company by
market value, asked Canada for permission to export 30 million
metric tons of LNG annually from British Columbia starting in
2021 in a June 20 export-license application filed with Canada’s
National Energy Board June 19.  Montney, Duvernay  “Those are real projects,” Ramsay said. “It’s not
somebody dreaming when you have Shell, Petronas, and Apache, the
bigger players stepping in.”  Progress Energy Resources Corp., the Canadian gas and oil
company bought last year by Petroliam Nasional Bhd, pumps gas in
the Montney shale. Progress goes after tight gas, lodged in
rocks that need heavy fracking before it can be removed.  “Not everything works for the Montney and Duvernay,” said
Progress CEO Michael Culbert. “You need certain-sized equipment
to actually facilitate fracking.”  The machinery Progress uses to get at the gas is being
heavily used, said Culbert, and it will stay that way.  Fracking equipment in Canada exceeded demand last year by
about 18 percent while the U.S. market was oversupplied by 31
percent, PacWest said.  ‘Very Cheap’  A wet spring pushed back pressure pumping schedules, but
there’s a lot to be done, said Purdy. “It’s probably going to
be late June by the time they get going but I expect them to be
very busy after that.”  As activity increases, the cost of fracking services will
climb in Canada over the next two quarters, he said.  “In the U.S. it may take a little longer for pricing to
get better, but it looks like they’re moving in that direction
as well,” Purdy said.  Profits for oil service companies will gradually improve
over the rest of the year, said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at
 Edward Jones  in  St. Louis . They probably won’t reach peak
margins this year, he said, but service companies are definitely
moving in the right direction.  “They’re very cheap, and as things get better here I think
investors will really see that even more,” he said.  Sold Out  Trican is expected to triple adjusted earnings per share
next year to C$1.24, and Calfrac is forecast to more than double
earnings to C$2.66, according to the average of 16 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Halliburton, based in Houston,
is projected to increase profit 27 percent while Houston and
Paris-based Schlumberger is slated to grow 21 percent.  Trican’s operating income from Canada and the U.S. dropped
57 percent to C$283 million last year compared with 2011 while
Calfrac lost 34 percent. Halliburton’s operating income fell 26
percent to $2.9 billion in Canada and U.S. during the same time
frame as Schlumberger slipped 10 percent to $2.7 billion.  Joao Felix, a spokesman at Schlumberger, declined to
comment on future prospects in the fracking markets. Beverly Stafford, a spokeswoman at Halliburton, didn’t return a phone
call seeking comment.  Trican’s available fracking equipment in Canada is sold out
for the third quarter, partly due to bad weather in the second
quarter, Dale Dusterhoft, CEO at Trican, said June 21 in a phone
interview.  Incremental Activity  “Canada will be stronger growth than the U.S. will in the
next 12 months,” Dusterhoft said.  The  price  for natural gas has climbed 47 percent during the
past year, helping to push up demand for more fracking jobs as
projects become more economic to the producers, Dusterhoft said.
“It’s not a boom, but it’s certainly helping our clients,” he
said.  Bennet Vig,  executive director  at Dallas-based Round Rock
Capital, whose fund owns an undisclosed number of shares in
Halliburton and Schlumberger, said he’s in no hurry to buy up
Canadian service stocks.  “There’s incremental activity that’s coming, but how fast
that activity comes will be the big question,” Vig said.
“These stocks are very cheap. I think you could wait a while to
own them.”  The limited size of the Canadian fracking market, at
roughly a tenth the size of the U.S. supply of equipment, is one
advantage to the pumpers north of the border growing quicker,
said Roy Ma, an analyst at PI Financial in Calgary.  “The Canadian market has always been, through this
downturn, healthier than the  United States ,” he said. “We can
get into a more balanced and under supply market quicker in
Canada than in the U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  