-- Riots Scaring Away Shoppers Cost Stores 1 Billion Reais
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-06-24T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/riots-scaring-away-shoppers-cost-stores-1-billion-reais.html
Protests sweeping across Brazil are
scaring off shoppers and prompting malls to shut early, eroding
sales at companies from Magazine Luiza SA to Marisa Lojas SA.  Retailers have lost an estimated 1 billion reais ($446
million) in sales in the two weeks since protests began, said
Daniel Pla, a professor of commerce at Fundacao Getulio Vargas
in Rio de Janeiro. Magazine Luiza and Marisa Lojas’s stores in
downtown  Sao Paulo  were vandalized and looted last week, while
mall operator  Multiplan Empreendimentos Imobiliarios SA (MULT3)  shut at
least two of its Rio shopping centers early on June 21 amid
concern the same would happen there.  The protests, which have left two people dead, are
compounding a retail-sales slowdown fueled by disappointing
growth and skyrocketing prices for food, transportation and
housing. A government report showed last week that inflation
through mid-June quickened to 6.67 percent, above the central
bank’s target range and the fastest pace since November 2011.  “Stores are closing earlier, people are staying home,”
Pla said in a telephone interview from Rio de Janeiro. “It’s
affecting consumer behavior.”  Consumer confidence has been  sliding  since June 2012 and in
May reached the lowest since March 2010, according to Fundacao
Getulio Vargas. The institute is set to release its report for
June at 8 a.m. today.  Catch-All Protests  Protests have swelled to more than 1 million people and
spread from Rio, Sao Paulo and the capital Brasilia to cities
across the country. The demonstrations were sparked by an
increase in bus fares and later morphed into a catch-all for
discontent over corruption, violence and spending on stadiums
for the World Cup soccer championship in 2014 and the  Olympic
Games  two years later.  President  Dilma Rousseff  condemned violence by a minority
of demonstrators, saying in a June 21 televised address that it
“embarrasses” Brazil.  “If we let violence take us off our path, we will not only
be wasting a big historic opportunity, but also running the risk
of losing a lot,” she said.  Police restrained protesters who threatened to disrupt a
Confederations Cup soccer match in which  Mexico ’s national team
beat  Japan  in  Belo Horizonte  on June 22. More than 100,000
marched across Brazil during the weekend.  Vivo Store  On Avenida Presidente Vargas in downtown Rio, the epicenter
of a 300,000-strong protest on June 20, an outlet for Telefonica
Brasil SA’s wireless operator Vivo was closed with its security
doors bent and mangled. Down the block, a Banco Santander Brasil
SA branch was taped off after protesters broke windows and
smashed cash machines.  “This movement has caused sales to fall,” said Joao
Almeida, the owner of a newspaper stand down the street from a
damaged Itau Unibanco Holding SA office. “I agree with the
protests but not the vandalism. It’s not right to destroy things
that belong to others.”  Multiplan,  Brazil ’s  largest  mall operator, closed its high-end Village Mall, where Apple Inc. has its first store in
Brazil, and the nearby BarraShopping center closed at 2 p.m. on
Friday, one of the busiest shopping days of the week. Clothing
retailer Cia. Hering and Ponto Frio, the appliance and
electronics chain owned by Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo
Pao de Acucar, have stores at BarraShopping. A press official
for an outside public-relations agency, In Press Porter Novelli,
said the move was a preventative security measure.  Boosting Security  BR Malls Participacoes SA is also increasing security.  The company expects “some impact while people are
protesting,” Ruy Kameyama, the company’s director of
operations, said in a telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .
“But the losses will be diluted in the month of June.”  A press official for Magazine Luiza said the company is
cooperating with the investigation into vandalism at its store
and declined to comment further. A press official from Imagem
Corporativa said the Marisa store that was looted had reopened
and declined to comment further. Press officials for Hering and
Pao de Acucar did not return phone and e-mail requests for
comment.  Second-quarter results are likely to suffer as shoppers
stay home to avoid the protests, said Daniel Snowden, an
 emerging markets  analyst at Informa Global Markets.  “Economic activity figures this month are going to be
pretty terrible,” he said in a telephone interview from  London .  Jump in Sale  Not everyone is losing out in the midst of the protest
movements. APL Equipamentos de Seguranca, a store in Sao Paulo
that sells safety equipment, has seen sales jump, said Andre
Luiz Braschi, the manager of the store.  “We’ve seen an increase in gas-mask sales,” he said by
telephone. “It’s definitely more than twice of what we’re used
to selling.”  Stores overall should experience a drop in traffic, said
Renato Prado, an analyst at Fator Corretora in Sao Paulo.  “ Consumer confidence  is very important,” he said by e-mail. Once protests end, “we may see a downturn in sales due to
a change in consumption patterns, or sales could even quicken as
a result of consumers having put off shopping.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  