-- Rousseff Seeks Political Plebiscite in Gesture to Protesters
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-25T00:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/rousseff-urges-fiscal-restraint-while-addressing-protest-demands.html
President  Dilma Rousseff , seeking to
meet the demands raised by Brazil’s biggest protests in two
decades, called for a plebiscite to bring about political
changes aimed at wringing endemic corruption out of Brazil’s
institutions.  Rousseff, at a meeting with governors and mayors in
Brasilia today, said she would classify corruption as one of the
country’s most serious crimes. She also pledged 50 billion reais
($22.5 billion) for urban transport upgrades, one hundred
percent of oil royalties to education and the formation of a
national public transportation council.  Marches are scheduled to continue this week after protests
claimed two lives today. While demonstrators first marched
against an increase in bus fares, protesters have expanded their
grievances, from teachers marching for better pay to gay-rights
activists opposing a bill to allow medical treatment for
homosexuality. Rousseff received leaders of the Free Fare
Movement today before meeting with municipal authorities.  “Campaign finance will likely be tackled,” Joao Augusto de Castro Neves, an analyst at political risk company Eurasia
Group, said by phone from  Washington . “There will be harsher
punishment for corrupt politicians, and more transparency and
accountability.”  Plebiscite  Rousseff, 65, said she supports organizing a plebiscite to
ask voters whether they support holding a constitutional
assembly to overhaul the nation’s political system, which is
blamed for corruption and excessive spending.  “The people are in the streets saying they want changes,
they want more citizenship,” Rousseff said at the start of the
meeting at the presidential palace in Brasilia. “They want
quality public services and more effective tools for fighting
corruption.”  A political overhaul was one of the five accords proposed
by Rousseff, with other measures focusing on fiscal
responsibility, health care, transportation and public
education. Authorities agreed to accelerate 90 billion reais in
transportation investments,  Brazil ’s Cities Minister Aguinaldo Ribeiro told reporters after meeting with the president.  Still, Rousseff called on local authorities to maintain
fiscal austerity after inflation this month breached the upper
limit of the central bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5
percent.  ‘Not Easy’  “The situation is not easy,” Andre Pereira Cesar, the
director of business strategy and public policy company
Prospectiva, said by phone. “It’s a short blanket: if you pull
it up, it uncovers your feet.”  Two women were killed during a protest today outside
Brasilia, bringing the total number of protest deaths nationwide
to four, according to the federal highway police. New protests
also broke out in cities including  Rio de Janeiro  and Porto
Alegre.  Rousseff’s speech today represents an early step in
addressing public discontent, according to Eurasia Group’s
Castro Neves.  “There is space for the debate to grow,” he said. “These
protesters target the political class, and she is offering to
reform the political class. It is a start.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  