-- Russia Tightening State Dividend Rules Before Asset Sales
-- B y   E v g e n i a   P i s m e n n a y a   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-06-25T07:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/russia-tightening-state-dividend-payout-rules-before-asset-sales.html
Russia is making it harder for state
companies to sidestep  dividend  rules as it seeks to boost
government revenue and sell assets to bolster the budget.  “We’ve started to take a tougher stance on companies’
dividend policy,”  Igor Shuvalov , first deputy prime minister,
said in an interview June 21 in  St. Petersburg . From next year,
the prime minister’s approval will be needed to exempt companies
from a payout equivalent to at least 25 percent of profit under
international accounting methods, he said.  While the Micex stock index trades at 4.9 times estimated
earnings, the least among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg, 11 of 17 Kremlin-backed companies included in the
benchmark gauge ignored the government’s payout rule. Bigger
dividends would support companies’  market value  as Russia seeks
to raise 427 billion rubles ($13 billion) from state asset sales
this year, helping the budget after President  Vladimir Putin 
increased spending during his election campaign last year.  Russia   required  state-backed companies pay at least 25
percent of net income as dividends in November, without
specifying whether the payouts should be based on Russian or
international accounting rules. The board of natural-gas export
monopoly OAO Gazprom recommended a 2012 payout 33 percent less
than the previous year as profit slumped. The dividend is equal
to 25 percent of net income based on domestic accounting rules
and 12 percent under international standards.  International Standards  “We will gradually unify the dividend policy into a single
rule -- 25 percent of profit under international financial
reporting standards,” Shuvalov said. The year after next, a
government decision will be needed to avoid the regulations, he
said.  Budget revenue from state companies’ dividends will drop 19
percent to 172 billion rubles in 2013, according to a  Finance
Ministry  document obtained by Bloomberg last month. Were the 25-percent rule followed in full, an additional 153 billion rubles
would flow into state coffers, the ministry said.  Russian stock valuations compare with 10 times expected 12-month earnings for  Brazil ’s Ibovespa, 8 times for the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  and 13 times for  India ’s  Sensex. (SENSEX)  The Micex rose
1 percent to 1,302.71 by 10:41 a.m. in Moscow after falling 0.7
percent yesterday.  The Micex is valued at 0.7 times net assets, compared with
1.3 times for the MSCI Emerging-Markets Index. The Russian index
has an  estimated dividend yield  of 4.5 percent versus 3.2
percent for the MSCI Emerging Markets gauge. The gap hit a 4.5-year high of 1.5 percentage points in April.  Less Government?  Russia is seeking to boost the attractiveness of its
companies, even as its economy grows at the slowest pace since
2009, to increase revenue from state-asset sales through the
Moscow Exchange planned for the second half of the year.  “Our goal is to cut the government’s stake in the overall
property to one-third over five years,” Shuvalov said. Majority
state-owned companies account for half the economy, according to
BNP Paribas SA estimates.  The Finance Ministry estimates the  budget deficit  will be
0.6 percent of gross domestic product this year compared with
about 0.1 percent of GDP in 2012.  VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest bank, is considering a
0.143 kopeks per share dividend for 2012, equivalent to 17
percent of net income in international standards, the company
said in a May 24 statement. OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest
lender, plans to pay a dividend equal to about 17 percent of net
income, Chief Executive Officer Herman Gref said March 22.  “Lifting dividend payments will raise interest in state
companies,” Oleg Popov, who manages $1 billion of securities
for Allianz Investments, the asset-management arm of  Europe ’s
biggest insurer, said by phone from Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Evgenia Pismennaya in Moscow at 
 epismennaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  