-- Samaras Revamps Cabinet to Boost Coalition Support
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-06-24T18:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/samaras-revamps-cabinet-to-boost-coalition-support.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
revamped his cabinet after losing one of two coalition partners,
giving the socialist Pasok party key ministries in a bid to
cement support from his remaining partner.  Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  was appointed deputy prime
minister and foreign minister, government spokesman Simos Kedikoglou said on Antenna TV. Dimitris Avramopoulos, who he
replaces at the foreign ministry, was named defense minister,
while former Pasok minister Michalis Chrisochoides joins the
government as infrastructure minister. Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras remains in his post, as does Development Minister
Kostis Hatzidakis.  Samaras overhauled the Cabinet after the Democratic Left
party withdrew its ministers on June 21 over his decision to
close state broadcaster ERT, sparking concern about the
government’s stability that sent bonds and shares sliding.
Democratic Left’s departure from the government trimmed the
coalition’s support in Parliament to 153 seats in the 300-seat
legislature, with Pasok’s 28 lawmakers holding the key to
Samaras’s ability to pass laws.  The decision was a setback to the Greek premier’s attempts
to convince creditors from the euro area and International
Monetary Fund that he has the backing needed to push through
reforms linked to 240 billion euros ($315 billion) of
international aid.  Bond Yields  The prospect of political instability drove Greek 10-year
government bonds down for a fourth day today, pushing the yield
up 30 basis points to 11.60 percent, the highest level since
April 8. The benchmark Athens general index declined 9.7 percent
last week. The bourse was shut for a public holiday today.  The weakening of the coalition government revived concern
over the political turmoil that led to two elections last year
and sparked fears the country would leave the euro area. Samaras
said in an interview in To Vima on June 23 that he will do what
he can to prevent an early election because that would wipe out
progress made in the past year.  The European Union urged  Greece  to stick to commitments on
economic reforms, saying the reward will be further aid
payments. EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn urged Greek political leaders to “immediately” stabilize
the political situation in statements on June 21 in Luxembourg.  “I appeal to the sense of political responsibility of all
political leaders and the Greek people to ensure stability and
concentrate on policy rather than politics,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  