-- Sanofi Chief Says EU Clinical ‘Data Dump’ to Hurt Drugmakers
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-06-24T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/sanofi-chief-says-eu-clinical-data-dump-would-hurt-drugmakers.html
Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said a proposal by the European Medicines Agency to
disclose more clinical-trial data threatens to undermine the
competitiveness of the region’s drug industry.  Regulatory dossiers composed of millions of pages contain
commercially confidential information that could be accessed by
competitors in the U.S.,  China  and  India , Viehbacher said.
Without a structured approach, such disclosure would be an
unhelpful “data dump on the sidewalk,” he said.  “Do we want publicly supported research and development
paid for by European taxpayers suddenly available to all and at
a disadvantage to European companies?” Viehbacher, elected
today as president of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical
Industries and Associations, told reporters in Brussels. “We’re
certainly open to doing things in a different way, but let’s do
it intelligently.”  The EMA today released its draft policy on publication of
 clinical trial data , a step designed to improve transparency
that affects all drugmakers seeking permission to sell their
medicines in  Europe  -- not just local companies -- and has
sparked industrywide debate.  While pharmaceutical companies want to share data to
accelerate development of new medicines, they also must protect
patient privacy and maintain incentives to conduct clinical
trials in Europe, Viehbacher said. The commercially sensitive
information includes know-how on patented manufacturing
processes for biologics, which is “absolutely fundamental” to
companies, he said.  Drugmakers’ Lawsuits  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , the drugmaker split off from Abbott
Laboratories at the start of this year, and biotechnology
company  InterMune Inc. (ITMN)  filed suits against the EMA earlier this
year in a bid to block publication of clinical-trial data.  To address concerns raised by various stakeholders, the EMA
has separated clinical data into three categories: commercially
confidential information; open-access data that doesn’t contain
patients’ personal information; and controlled-access data that
will only be granted after the requester has fulfilled a number
of requirements, including the signing of a data-sharing
agreement, it said in a statement.  The draft policy will undergo a three-month public
consultation, with a final policy to be issued by the end of the
year, the EMA said.  ‘Challenging Region’  EFPIA will publish its own position on the issue “any day
now,” said Richard Bergstrom, director general of the industry
association.  An unfavorable policy would further discourage drugmakers
from investing in Europe, a region where governments are cutting
prices and raising hurdles for reimbursement of new drugs in the
face of austerity, according to Viehbacher.  “Europe is our most challenging region,” he said. As CEO
of  Sanofi (SAN) , “our next euro of investment will go to the U.S. or
 emerging markets .”  Industrywide employment in Europe was unchanged at 700,000
in 2012 from a year earlier, according to EFPIA. Jobs in the
region will remain little changed or decline over the next few
years, Viehbacher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  