-- Schroders’ Wyke Sees Gold Bull Market Intact in Bond Selloff
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-06-24T15:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/schroders-wyke-sees-gold-bull-market-intact-in-bond-selloff-1-.html
Gold’s  bull market  is intact and
prices will reach a new high as declines in bonds and equities
boost demand and investors seek insurance against economic and
political risk, according to Schroder Investment Management Ltd.  Bullion tumbled into a  bear market  in April and is heading
for the worst year since 1981 amid concern the U.S. Federal
Reserve will taper stimulus and as some investors lost faith in
the traditional store of value. Prices touched the lowest since
September 2010 last week after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
the central bank, which buys $85 billion of debt each month, may
begin reducing purchases this year and end the program in 2014
should the economy improve further.  “The gold bull market is still intact,” Christopher Wyke,
a product manager for emerging-market debt, currencies and
commodities at Schroder, said in an interview in London. “The
fundamental reasons why people are buying gold are still there.
We have economic risk, political and market risks, and gold will
provide protection. Although the current correction may not have
ended, we believe that the bull market in gold will resume in
time and that a new all-time high will be established.”  Gold ETPs  Bullion’s 23 percent slump this year followed 12 years of
gains. Investors  sold  533 metric tons of gold-backed exchange-traded products this year, reducing holdings to 2,098.605 tons
on June 21, the lowest since 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Gold futures more than doubled from the end of 2008 to the
record $1,923.70 in September 2011 as the Fed cut interest rates
to a record and bought $2.3 trillion of debt from December 2008
through June 2011. Bullion for August delivery fell 0.5 percent
to $1,285.40 an ounce by 11:16 a.m. on the Comex in  New York 
after plunging to the lowest since 2010 on June 21.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities dropped
6.3 percent this year, the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities gained 1.7 percent and the U.S. Dollar Index added 3.5
percent. A Bank of America Corp. index shows Treasuries lost 2.8
percent.  Selling Bonds  “One of the effects of Bernanke’s comments is the equity
markets in many parts of the world will sell off,” Wyke said
June 20. “Bonds are selling off already, and there is risk of
equities in some markets falling sharply as well. Going to gold
as protection is going to become more important as markets are
falling.”  Schroder has about $8.1 billion in five commodity funds,
including the $302 million Schroder AS Gold and Precious Metals
Fund. The gold fund has had “very few redemptions” since the
sell-off began, Wyke said. The fund, managed by Paula Bujia, is
down 27 percent this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The 32-year-old bull market in bonds has come to an end,
and part of the investor money coming out from debt as  interest
rates  rise may go into bullion, Wyke said.  “If interest rates are going up, you don’t want to hold
bonds,” Wyke said. “Most investors have far too much in bonds,
and I think some of that money will go to gold.”  U.S. Employment  Investors withdrew money from bond funds worldwide this
month after Bernanke told Congress on May 22 that the central
bank’s policy-setting board could start reducing its bond
purchases if the U.S. employment outlook shows sustained
improvement. Ten-year Treasury yields climbed today to the
highest since August 2011, worsening the sell-off.  Gold may gain even if the dollar strengthens and inflation
remains subdued, according to Wyke. Bullion usually moves
inversely to the greenback. Expectations for increases in
consumer prices, as measured by the break-even rate for 10-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, fell 24 percent this
year, earlier today extending a decline to the lowest since Oct.
6, 2011.  “Historically, the dollar going down, inflation going up
has been good for gold,” Wyke said. “Even if those two things
didn’t happen, all the risks the world is facing mean that
outlook for gold is good, and the fall in the gold price below
$1,300 will provoke demand. People will be able to buy more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  