-- Senators to Introduce Bill to End Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-06-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/senators-to-introduce-bill-to-end-fannie-mae-freddie-mac.html
A bipartisan group of senators has
proposed replacing U.S.-owned mortgage financiers  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
 Freddie Mac (FMCC)  with a newly created government reinsurer.  A bill to be offered by Senators  Bob Corker  and  Mark Warner 
reflects a prevailing view among lawmakers that the two
government-sponsored enterprises should cease to exist while a
federal role in backing mortgage lending should remain. Corker,
a Tennessee Republican, and Warner, a Virginia Democrat, held a
news conference to introduce the measure yesterday.  The senators have revised their proposal from an earlier
version, reducing the losses that lenders would take on bad
mortgages during a financial crisis, according to a 154-page
copy of the final bill.  “There is a bipartisan effort here that’s thoughtful and
it is without question the most thorough Congressional effort to
draft a GSE reform legislation to date,”  David Stevens ,
president and chief executive officer of the  Mortgage Bankers
Association , said in an interview.  The proposal could restart a stalled debate over the future
of the U.S. mortgage-finance system. Congress hadn’t previously
proposed a measure for replacing Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac ,
which have operated under U.S. conservatorship since they were
seized by regulators during the 2008 credit crisis. President
 Barack Obama ’s administration also hasn’t provided a plan to
revamp the government’s role in housing finance.  ‘New Architecture’  “Housing finance is the only part of financial reform that
really was never taken on and we think it’s a good time to set
up a new architecture,” Warner said yesterday in an interview
with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television, where he appeared with
Corker.  Jaret Seiberg, an analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC’s
Washington Research Group, said the bill may benefit from its
timing.  “It’s an uphill fight for this legislation, but the window
is more open now than it has been at any point since the
crisis,” Seiberg said. “There seems to be a growing desire on
both sides of the Hill to do something.”  Frank Keating , president and CEO of the  American Bankers
Association , said in a statement that the bill is a “positive
first step in what is certain to be a long process toward
creating a sustainable, rational and limited role for the
federal government in supporting and regulating a mortgage
market.”  Obama Support  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, said the
administration welcomes the bipartisan bill.  “The president strongly supports comprehensive housing
finance reform that would forever end Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac’s flawed business model that put the American taxpayers on
the hook,” Brundage said in an e-mail.  Under the bill, Washington-based Fannie Mae and McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac, which package mortgages into
securities on which they guarantee 100 percent payment of
principal and interest, would be liquidated within five years.  Because the bill would force banks to share the losses from
bad mortgages, taxpayers will “know that in the future we won’t
have a system where there’s private gains and public losses,”
Corker said in the Bloomberg Television interview.  The bill calls for private financiers to hold equity
capital of 10 percent of the principal of underlying securities
to cover any first loss of the loans. Housing finance
participants have been critical of that “first-loss”
provision, as it is referred to in the bill, saying it is too
big a change from the current system.  Taxpayer Assistance  The senators defended the 10 percent requirement in a
summary of the bill, saying it is more than double the loss
experienced by Fannie and Freddie between 2007 and today. “This
private capital buffer could have prevented taxpayer assistance
following the housing crisis,” according to a summary.  “When you’ve got a 10 percent capital buffer in advance it
really causes that pricing of risk to be far less important
because what you have out there is a huge investment by the
private sector in advance of any kind of government reinsurance
and that ought to be soothing to taxpayers,” Corker said at the
news conference.  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac would be replaced by a Federal
Mortgage Insurance Corp. that would continue efforts to build a
common securitization platform to help small lenders issue
securities. It also would continue the two companies’ existing
multifamily guarantees.  FDIC Model  According to the bill summary, the new entity will be
modeled after the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. It will
collect insurance premiums from the industry and maintain an
insurance fund. The new entity’s insurance will kick in only
after a “substantial amount” of private capital is exhausted
to “bring in credit investors who bear the risk of default
while maintaining liquidity for the housing finance system.”  The new corporation would be allowed to cover a greater
share of losses in an “unusual and exigent circumstance” that
threatens mortgage credit availability and the housing finance
system, according to the bill. Such assistance would be limited
to six months once every three years.  That provision “gives investors more comfort than under
the prior version of the bill where they might have been more
skittish,” said Clifford Rossi, a former Citigroup Inc. risk
manager and managing director who’s now at the University of
Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business.  Affordable Housing  The bill would eliminate the affordable housing goals held
by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and create a Market Access Fund,
paid for by the fees, to maintain access to affordable housing,
make grants to state housing agencies and conduct borrower
counseling programs.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have begun posting record
profits after drawing a total of $187.5 billion in aid from
taxpayers to stay afloat since 2008. Corker noted the firms’
recent profits and said the window for reform is closing.  “When folks come in and say ‘well you know Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac make a bunch of money,’ the bottom line is the
taxpayer is still on the hook and we need to fix that,” Senator
Jon Tester, a Democrat from  Montana , said at the news
conference.  Heartened by the change of fortune,  hedge funds  including
Paulson & Co. Inc. and Claren Road Asset Management LLC have
bought shares of the companies’ junior preferred stock and urged
lawmakers to drop plans to eliminate them.  Market Reaction  Those junior preferred shares of Fannie Mae were down five
cents to 7.70 yesterday. Fannie Mae  common shares  were down
12.78 percent to $1.57 and Freddie Mac  common shares  were down
12.79 percent to $1.50.  Senator  Jack Reed , a Rhode Island Democrat, is also working
on a bill to recast housing finance. Senate Banking Committee
Chairman  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat, and Senator  Mike Crapo  of Idaho, the panel’s top Republican, have said they
prefer to work on legislation to revamp the  Federal Housing
Administration  before a Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bill.  Crapo said he is working with Johnson to take in
suggestions to come up with a housing reform plan the committee
can begin working on.  “I welcome anyone bringing forward ideas as to how we
should approach broader housing reform and I think that this is
a good step, also in the sense that it shows some bipartisan
work together but I’m not endorsing any particular proposal
right now,” Crapo said in an interview.  Hensarling Bill  Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the Texas Republican who
leads the House Financial Services Committee Chairman, is
completing work on a broad housing finance bill that would
include changes to FHA and a replacement for Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac.  Hensarling has indicated that he prefers a privatized
system without a government backstop. His bill could be
introduced before lawmakers leave for their summer recess in
August. Any final law is expected to take at least several years
to pass.  “That approach in Corker-Warner is going to be the
approach that eventually becomes law,” Seiberg said. “The
battle is going to be how do get there, how do you structure it
and what do you do with Fannie and Freddie. And those are really
big decisions that are likely to take longer than this Congress
to resolve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  