-- Slovenia Dollar Bond Yield Surges as Fed Trumps Asset-Sale Plans
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-06-24T12:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/slovenia-dollar-bond-yield-surges-as-fed-trumps-asset-sale-plans.html
Slovenia’s benchmark dollar notes
slumped, sending the yield to more than 7 percent for the first
time as concern the  Federal Reserve  is trimming stimulus
outweighed government steps to overhaul the local bank industry.  The yield on Slovenia’s 2022 dollar bond, sold in October,
jumped 24 basis points to 7.05 percent at 1:21 p.m. in
Ljubljana, its eighth increase in nine days totaling 90 basis
points, or 0.9 percentage point, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The cost to insure the euro-member’s debt for five-years with credit-default swaps jumped to a two-month high.  The Alpine nation, whose financial industry pushed it to
the brink of a bailout in March, last week approved an asset-sale plan and is working on recapitalization program for lenders
as well as on transferring banks’ toxic debt to a special
government agency. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S.
central bank may end bond purchases by mid-2014 if the world’s
biggest economy grows as policy makers expect, stoking a selloff
in Treasuries and outflows from high-yielding assets.  “The move in Slovenia’s bond yields has been driven by
global market conditions, and speculation about the tapering of
quantitative easing by the US in particular,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging-markets economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc, said in an e-mailed comment today. “The move is less
concerning than elsewhere in the region as Slovenia has secured
funding until the first quarter of next year.”  Default Swaps  Slovenia sold $3.5 billion of notes last month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on its euro-denominated
securities maturing in 2018, which fell to a two-year low of
3.54 percent in January, climbed to 5.48 percent today, the
highest since April 18, the data show.  Slovenia’s CDS increased eight basis points to a two-month
high of 358, compared with 365 for  Hungary  and 235 for  Turkey .  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek, vowing the nation won’t
need an international bailout, wants to sell state-owned assets
to restore investor confidence. Lawmakers on June 21 approved a
sales plan that includes Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.,
Telekom Slovenije d.d. as well as 13 other enterprises from the
Ljubljana airport operator to the national air-carrier.  Slovenian banks such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., agreed
to sell the 53 percent of retailer Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d.
to its Croatian competitor Arokor d.d. for 240 million euros.
The transaction, set to be completed by year’s end, would help
repair lenders loan books.  “Were it not for the poor global market conditions, this
deal would have been cheered by investors,” Ameli-Renani said
of the Mercator announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  