-- Snowden Faces Often-Posed U.S. Fugitive Question: Where to Run?
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-24T01:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/snowden-faces-often-posed-u-s-fugitive-question-where-to-run-.html
Edward Snowden, whose disclosure of
U.S. electronic surveillance operations led to his being charged
with espionage, faces the same question confronting earlier
fugitives from American justice: where to run?  In avoiding U.S. efforts to repatriate him, Snowden, 30, a
former National Security Agency contract worker, joins the ranks
of earlier suspects who fled U.S. charges including commodities
trader  Marc Rich , Comverse Technology Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Jacob “Kobi” Alexander and financier Robert Vesco. In
many cases, the choice of where to run isn’t about the existence
of a treaty so much as the crime and whether it fits a loophole.  “The U.S. has extradition agreements, some of which are
100 years old and never been amended, with virtually every
country on earth,” said Chicago lawyer  Chris Gair , who in 2007
defeated a Polish government attempt to extradite a man from the
U.S. accused of helping to plot the murder of a police official.
“The existence of a treaty is a formal requirement” for
extradition, he said, “but there’s a lot of ways to avoid it.”  In choosing  Ecuador , Snowden aligned himself with Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder who’s been sheltered in that
nation’s London embassy for more than a year. Assange, whose
group is assisting Snowden, has been battling extradition to
 Sweden  where he’s wanted for questioning on rape and sexual
molestation allegations.  “The government of Ecuador has received an asylum
request,” Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino Aroca said of Snowden
yesterday in a Twitter.com posting, adding a leg to a global
odyssey that saw Snowden depart Hong Kong in the wake of a U.S.
extradition request and later land in Moscow.  Ecuador Treaty  Ecuador has an extradition treaty with the U.S., as does
Cuba, where Vesco -- sought by the U.S. for allegedly cheating
investors out of more than $200 million -- lived until his
reported death in 2008.  Rich, accused of evading more than $48 million in taxes and
facing prosecution for allegedly violating U.S. sanctions by
trading oil with  Iran , was living in  Switzerland  when he was
pardoned by President  Bill Clinton  in 2001.  Namibia , despite having no treaty with the U.S., according
to the  State Department , considered Alexander’s extradition to
face 35 criminal counts related to  securities fraud , including
stock-option backdating.  While Alexander won an appeal of a Namibian court ruling in
2010, he nevertheless later agreed to pay $53.6 million to
settle a Securities and Exchange Commission probe of allegations
that he led an options backdating scheme at Comverse.  Dual Criminality  All such treaties proceed from the premise of “dual
criminality,” Gair and  New York  criminal defense attorney
Douglas T. Burns said. The concept requires that the crime for
which the requesting country seeks extradition is also a crime
in the country to which the request is made.  “The conduct has to be criminalized in both places,” said
Burns, a former federal prosecutor.  Snowden’s departure from  Hong Kong  came two days after the
U.S. revealed charges against him in Alexandria, Virginia
federal court. The charges include government theft and
espionage for Snowden’s role in disclosing the classified
details of a phone records collection program, as well as an
Internet monitoring program that targeted foreign-based
individuals suspected of terrorism.  He faces as many as 10 years in prison on the theft count
and 10 years on each of two espionage charges.  Ecuador’s treaty with the U.S., first signed in 1872, lists
crimes for which extradition can be sought, including murder,
rape, arson, piracy, mutiny, burglary, robbery, forgery,
counterfeiting and embezzlement of public property.  Political Crimes  The accord , however, contains an exception for “crimes or
offenses of a political character.”  American courts would interpret this to cover only things
like criticizing the government, Gair said.  “However the Ecuadorean courts are free to interpret this
in their own way and could conceivably see” Snowden’s case as
one of “a political crime,” especially since espionage isn’t
among the enumerated offenses for which extradition is possible
under the treaty, Gair said.  It’s probably for that reason that prosecutors also charged
Snowden with theft of government property, said Burns, the New
York-based attorney.  Snowden asked WikiLeaks to use its legal expertise and
experience to secure his safety, the group said in a statement
posted on  its website . His asylum request will be “formally
processed” once he arrives in the South American nation of
about 15.4 million people, the organization said.  Pursue Him  The federal government will pursue him, Democratic U.S.
Senator Dianne Feinstein of California said yesterday.  Snowden’s U.S. passport has been revoked, according to a
U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity. Jen Psaki, a
State Department spokeswoman, declined to comment specifically
on Snowden’s passport, citing privacy protections.  “In all of our extradition treaties, the secretary of
state has authority to refuse extradition, even if all the
requirements are met,” Gair said. “I’m sure that’s how all the
other countries are. If he can secrete himself in a country that
doesn’t want to play ball with the U.S. or seeks to hurt us, the
U.S. will have a hell of a time trying to get him back.”  The case is U.S. v Snowden, 13-cr-265, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  