-- S. Africa Fines Building Companies for World Cup Collusion
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-06-24T15:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/south-africa-construction-companies-fined-1-46-billion-rand.html
South Africa’s antitrust body fined
15 construction companies a combined 1.46 billion rand ($140
million) after an investigation into collusion over contracts
such as those to build stadiums for the 2010 Soccer World Cup.  The Competition Commission investigated 140 projects in
both the private and public sectors over almost four years and
has reached a settlement with 15 of 18 companies, members of the
body said in  Pretoria  today. The building or expansion of six
World Cup stadiums including Cape Town’s 4.5 billion rand,
68,000 capacity Green Point venue were part of the probe.  “It is the biggest collective fine” given to companies in
South Africa, Shan Ramburuth, the head of the Commission, told
reporters. “The industry has the opportunity to go on a more
competitive path for the good of all of us and the industry
itself.”  Murray & Roberts Holdings Ltd. (MUR)  was fined 309 million rand
while  Aveng Ltd. (AEG)  will pay 307 million rand, Ramburuth said.
Wilson Bayly Holmes-Ovcom Ltd. was fined 311 million rand and
 Stefanutti Stocks Holdings Ltd. (SSK)  307 million rand.  South Africa’s ruling African National Congress party said
the antitrust body should now widen its investigation. The
Competition Commission should initiate a process “to include
other industries so as to fully assess the extent of the problem
of bid-rigging and collusion,” party spokesman Jackson Mthembu
said in a statement.  Adequate Provision  Aveng “has already made adequate provision for this
amount,” the company said in a statement. “The Aveng Board
welcomes the resolution of this matter.” Murray & Roberts said
the settlement amount, payable in three payments over 24 months,
“is not materially higher from what was provided for by the
group.”  Aveng rose 5.2 percent to 29.29 rand at the close in
Johannesburg. Murray & Roberts advanced 0.9 percent.  “The fine is a bit lower than the market was expecting,”
Anashrin Pillay, an analyst at Stanlib Asset Management, said in
a phone interview from Johannesburg. There were “concerns that
the companies wouldn’t be able to pay without putting their
balance sheet under strain.”  Irregular Behavior  The seven-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Construction and Building
Material Index  rose 0.6 percent to 43.01. Aveng and Murray &
Roberts account for about 45 percent of the index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Competition Commission’s verdict was an “overhang on
the sector for a while,” according to Pillay. “It’s a relief”
that the process has been concluded, he said.  Group Five Ltd. (GRF)  was among three companies yet to agree to a
settlement and negotiations are continuing, according to the
antitrust regulator. The company’s shares fell 3.2 percent,
paring gains for the year to 27 percent.  “We haven’t been able to reach an agreement with Group
Five on specific projects where Group Five has been implicated
by others,” Trudi Makhaya, a deputy commissioner of the
antitrust body, said in an interview. Group Five doesn’t expect
a fine to affect liquidity and will continue to work with the
commission, the company said in a statement.  Antitrust regulators identified 300 cases of illegal or
irregular behavior by companies that won contracts worth a
combined 47 billion rand, Economic Development Minister  Ebrahim Patel  said on May 7. The price fixing affected both public and
private sector contracts, he told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  