-- Spanish Retail Slump Keeps Growth Hope Pinned on Exports
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-06-25T12:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/spanish-retail-slump-keeps-guindos-growth-hope-pinned-on-exports.html
Spanish officials predicting an end
in the next quarter to the  worst recession  in the country’s
democratic history are pinning that hope on its export recovery
as a consumer slump shows little sign of abating.  With record unemployment weighing on domestic demand,
supermarket chain Eroski sought to kickstart sales last week by
cutting prices of 2,000 branded products from olive oil to
diapers in more than a third of its 1,500 stores. Such tactics
show the pain retailers are willing to endure to revive spending
in an economic downturn that started in 2008.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos last week forecast the
economy to resume expansion in the three months starting July 1.
Reports this week may underline how dependent that view is on
 exports , with economists predicting retail sales data to show a
35th month of annual declines in May, and current account
statistics which may confirm a boom in overseas sales.  “Exports are vital to generate growth in the short term
and make the Spanish economy less dependent on domestic demand
and real estate in the longer term,” said Miguel Cardoso Lecourtois, chief economist for  Spain  at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in  Madrid . “The best we can expect from domestic
demand is that it stops eroding growth next year as neither the
job market nor the public sector are in a position to help
spending.”  Trade Surplus  European stocks rallied from a six-month low and U.S.
equity-index futures gained before reports that may add to
evidence of America’s economic recovery. Bonds rose and metals
rebounded. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index climbed 1.3 percent to
279.28 at 2:10 p.m. in Paris, while Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
futures added 0.8 percent.  Spanish exports rose to a record last year, while the
country in March posted its first  trade surplus  since at least
1971. April’s current account data will be released on June 28.  On the domestic front, consumers are eating into savings as
unemployment rises. Households’ income from wages fell 8.5
percent in the fourth quarter of 2012 from a year earlier after
a labor-rules overhaul helped companies to cut payrolls.
Producer prices jumped in May on energy, rising 0.8 percent from
a year ago after a drop of 0.6 percent in April, Spain’s
National Statistics Institute said today. Inflation will quicken
to 2 percent in June, according to the median of 13 estimates in
a  Bloomberg News survey .  ‘Negative Impact’  The economy is also under pressure from public-spending
cuts as the government tries to narrow the European Union’s
widest  budget deficit .  “Unemployment hasn’t peaked and spending cuts and higher
taxes will continue to have a deep negative impact on
consumption,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg
Bank in  London . “For the recession to end, an investment
rebound must join export growth.”  Spanish stores are resorting to permanent discounts as
consumers pull back on spending. In March, El Corte Ingles SA,
Europe’s largest department-store chain, added a 5 percent
reduction on daily consumption goods to the 20 percent markdown
introduced last year.  Eroski, the chain based in Ellorrio, northern Spain, says
offers unveiled at the onset of the crisis in 2008 aren’t enough
anymore. “Disposable income has been hit and we need to respond
to consumers’ greater sensitivity to prices,” said Oskar
Gonzalez Uriarte, a spokesman for Eroski, said in an interview.  ‘Wage Moderation’  Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s biggest clothing retailer, this
month reported quarterly income growth that was the slowest in
four years. The Spanish owner of the Zara chain still said
profit margins should stabilize for the rest of the year after
narrowing in the quarter through March.  The Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  called
this month for “significant further wage moderation” in Spain
as part of a program to increase hiring. Unemployment is at a
record 27 percent, more than twice the euro-region average.  “Domestic demand will remain constrained in Spain for an
indefinite future,” James Daniel, the head of the IMF’s Spain
mission, told reporters in Madrid last week. “The question is
to make what demand there is as growth friendly and as job-friendly as possible.”  The fund also said Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  should
steer clear of budget cuts that may curb growth, recommending a
broader base for indirect taxes to collect more revenue without
increasing rates.  Budget Balance  At the end of the week, Spain will publish the central
government’s budget balance for the five months through May,
which will highlight the challenge facing Rajoy. While EU
finance ministers have relaxed the nation’s deficit target for
2013, overspending in the first four months of the year amounted
to about 2.2 percent of output.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bonds  was at 5.08
percent at 2:13 p.m. in Madrid. It rose above 5 percent
yesterday for the first time since April. Euro-area bonds fell
after the 27 European Union’s finance ministers last week failed
to agree on assigning losses at failing banks in the context of
the European banking union. That still compares with a euro-era
high of 7.75 percent in July 2012.  “It is fundamental to transmit the message that the
banking union will comply with its calendar,” Spain’s Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said today in Madrid. Guindos said he
is “convinced” European Finance Ministers can iron out
“technical details” at a meeting tomorrow prior to EU leaders’
summit in Brussels this week.  Banking Crisis  Public debt rose 19 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, amounting to 88.2 percent of gross domestic
product. The European Commission forecasts it will exceed the
euro-area average for the first time in the currency’s history
in 2014 year after last year’s bank bailout.  Elsewhere today, Hong Kong exports in May fell 1 percent
from a year ago, compared with a median estimate of a 3.4
percent gain in a survey of 11 economists. In  France ,  business
confidence  rose in June, climbing to 93 from 92. The U.S. will
publish data on durable-goods orders,  home prices  and new-home
sales.  The Bank of Spain last week said the banking crisis isn’t
over even as lenders can manage with the 41 billion euros ($54
billion) they’ve received.  Bad loans amounted to 10.9 percent of the total in April
and lending is falling at an annual rate of more than 12
percent. Rajoy has called on the  European Central Bank  to unveil
plans to boost credit for small- and medium-sized enterprises,
while the Bank of Spain has suggested using European funds to
share lending risks.  “The Spanish economy is among the largest in the euro
region,” said BBVA’s Cardoso. “Its recovery is necessary to
contribute to growth as well as improve prospects for
unemployment in the whole of Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  