-- Starbucks Pays $15.4 Million U.K. Corporation Tax Amid Backlash
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-06-24T11:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/starbucks-pays-15-4-million-u-k-corporation-tax-amid-backlash.html
Starbucks Corp., (SBUX)  the world’s biggest
coffee chain, said it will pay 10 million pounds ($15.4 million)
of U.K. corporation tax this year and in 2014 in response to
criticism of its money-losing British business.  The company has paid 5 million pounds already and will pay
the same amount later this year after forgoing unspecified  tax
deductions , according to an e-mailed statement. Starbucks, based
in Seattle, will also pay 10 million pounds of tax next year.  The payments come amid criticism levied at the company by
U.K. lawmakers and activist groups such as U.K. Uncut over
complex accounting methods used to minimize its British tax
burden. At this year’s  World Economic Forum , U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  said companies need to “wake up and smell the
coffee” on the issue, and  tax avoidance  was discussed at this
month’s Group of Eight summit in Northern Ireland. Politicians
have also grilled executives at Google Inc. and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   Starbucks said it will close or relocate unprofitable
stores, and rely more on franchised or licensed stores rather
than company-owned locations to become profitable in the U.K.  “Six months ago, we felt that our customers should not
have to wait for us to become profitable before we started
paying U.K. corporation tax,” the company said in the
statement. “We listened to our customers in December and so
decided to forgo certain deductions which would make us liable
to pay 10 million pounds in corporation tax this year and a
further 10 million pounds in 2014.”  Starbucks, which has more than 700 stores in the U.K. and
more than 18,000 worldwide, said in December that it would pay
“a significant amount” of tax in the U.K. in 2013 and 2014.
There has been no suggestion that Starbucks has broken any law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  