-- Study Gains Put Diabetics Nearer to Artificial Pancreas
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-06-24T15:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/study-gains-put-diabetics-nearer-to-artificial-pancreas.html
A decade of work by scientists to
create an artificial pancreas that will independently control
insulin levels in people with Type 1 diabetes took a leap
forward in research from  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and Johnson & Johnson.  Medical pumps developed by the two companies were shown in
separate studies this weekend at the American Diabetes
Association  meeting  in  Chicago  to successfully sense changes in
blood sugar levels and adjust insulin delivery accordingly.
Today, Medtronic said it’s taking the next step in its product’s
development with the start of a feasibility trial testing a
fully automated artificial pancreas system.  Type 1  diabetes occurs when insulin-releasing beta cells in
the pancreas are destroyed. Patients must test their blood
repeatedly with finger sticks or a glucose monitor, then inject
themselves with the hormone using a needle or pump to control
blood sugar. The emerging artificial pancreas technology seeks
to link a glucose monitor, or sensor, to a pump that delivers
insulin on its own as needed, mimicking a healthy pancreas.  “We’re a few years away at least, maybe five years, from a
fully operational artificial pancreas,”  Les Funtleyder , a
health strategist with investment firm Poliwogg LLC in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “We’re getting smarter about the
rhythms and the technology and I think the sensors may be the
most important thing,” he said.  Lifelong Management  About 5 percent of the 25.8 million Americans with diabetes
have the Type 1 form, which is most often diagnosed in young
people and requires lifelong management of the disease. Poor
blood sugar control can led to complications including  heart
disease , nerve and kidney damage, blindness and amputations.  Safely automating and perfecting blood sugar control would
be a major advance for Type I diabetics, said Bruce Buckingham,
a pediatric endocrinologist at Stanford Medical Center in
 California , in a telephone interview.  “If you’re a parent, you’re getting up and checking your
kid overnight,” for low blood sugar, he said. “Parents of
younger children may get up at midnight and 3 a.m. to make sure
their child’s OK. If you’re an adult, it’s harder. You don’t
have that parent around to be your angel guardian overnight.”  Almost one-third of Type 1 diabetics now use continuous
glucose monitors and the number should grow as improvements lead
to better control, said Aaron Kowalski, vice president of
treatment therapies at JDRF, a New York-based advocacy group.
The market for the monitors sold by Medtronic and DexCom Inc.,
as well as the insulin pumps that replace repeatedly daily
injections, is about $2.4 billion annually.  Suspend Function  A feature in the “smart” pump developed by Minneapolis-based Medtronic stops insulin delivery for two hours when blood
sugar drops to a dangerous level. The condition, known as
 hypoglycemia , can cause seizures, loss of consciousness and
death. Use of the suspend function slashed low blood-sugar
levels by one-third at night, when patients are largely unaware
of the problem or too impaired to respond to it.  “Automating any insulin delivery can be a win for the
patient,” said Francine Kaufman, vice president of global
medical affairs in Medtronic’s diabetes business, in a telephone
interview. “It doesn’t take much more than intuition to know
that stopping insulin when someone is on their way to being too
low is a good thing.”  FDA Filing  Medtronic has filed for U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
approval of its pump, called MiniMed 530 G, and expects
clearance by the end of the year, Lawrence Biegelsen, an analyst
with Wells Fargo, wrote in a June 19 research note. The pump has
been sold outside of the U.S. since 2009 as the MiniMed Veo.  Today Medtronic announced that it began enrolling patients
in a feasibility trial testing a fully automated artificial
pancreas system. The system requires no interaction from the
user, automatically adjusting insulin delivery to a specific
glucose level. The overnight study will include 85 patients,
Medtronic said today in a statement.  The device from  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J, the
world’s biggest maker of health-care products, was tested in an
early study of 20 adults with Type 1 diabetes. It showed it’s
possible to monitor, measure and deliver the appropriate amount
of insulin through a single system.  The Medtronic study, also published in the  New England
Journal of Medicine , shows the novel pump doesn’t cause harm or
spike blood sugar levels by turning off the insulin temporarily.
An alarm sounds when the low blood-sugar level is hit, and the
patient can take other action, like eating or drinking, to
correct the problem.  Research Goal  About half the time the insulin was stopped for just 10
minutes, according to the research.  “We met every goal we were trying to accomplish with the
study,” said Rich Bergenstal, a principal investigator of the
Medtronic “Aspire” study and executive director of the
International Diabetes Center at Park Nicollet in  St. Louis
Park ,  Minnesota , in a telephone interview. “There’s every
reason to think this should be very approvable.”  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s research also focused on the 9 p.m. to
7 a.m. period, when episodes of low blood sugar can be deadly.
It found use of the device kept glucose levels in the
recommended range for more than 90 percent of the night.  The system uses a computer algorithm and readings from a
continuous glucose monitor to calculate the amount of insulin a
patient will need to ensure their blood sugar remains in a safe
range. Fewer than half the volunteers had their levels drop into
dangerous territory and there were no unexpected safety issues,
according to the report at the diabetes meeting.  Algorithm Capabilities  “We are feeling very confident with the data we have
gotten so far in understanding the capabilities of the
algorithm, the risks associated with it and the features we
want,” said Ramakrishna Venugopalan, director of research and
development at J&J’s division that’s developing the device,
called Animas.  The study was conducted during a closely monitored
overnight visit using machines built for the clinical trial
process. Animas has received approval to conduct a third
feasibility study of its approach to look for any flaws before
it begins trials that will allow patients to live at home for
weeks or months with the automated system, Venugopalan said.  Over the last six to nine months, the FDA has accelerated
research in the field, said Buckingham, the pediatric
endocrinologist from Stanford.  “For a number of years the FDA was a subject of concern
among the diabetic community, that things weren’t happening
faster,” he said. “I’ve seen a big acceleration lately;
they’ve been moving things forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  