-- Surgery Cost Caps Save Pension Fund 19% Without Hurting Health
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-06-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/surgery-cost-caps-save-pension-fund-19-without-hurting-health.html
The nation’s largest pension fund
and health insurer  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  cut medical costs 19 percent
by capping the price of some surgeries, in the latest sign
payers are taking a tougher line against rising hospital claims.  The California Public Employees Retirement System saved
$5.5 million under a pilot project it started with WellPoint in
2011, according to a study released by the Indianapolis-based
insurer yesterday at a Baltimore health conference. Retirees
proved at least as healthy as those who didn’t opt for the
lower-cost procedures, WellPoint said.  Hospital charges have come under renewed scrutiny as the
government seeks to increase the number of insured Americans
under President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care law. Cost
capping, which steers consumers away from high-priced providers
that don’t produce better outcomes, is gaining currency among
employers grappling with the wide variation in hospital expenses,
said Kenneth Goulet, a WellPoint executive vice-president.  “There is a lot of momentum building,” Goulet said in a
telephone interview. “Employers have wanted to see the tools
and the proof that it works, and now that they’re seeing that,
there seems to be pretty heavy interest.”  In May, the U.S. Medicare program released  data  for the
first time on what it pays 3,000 hospitals, and the numbers
showed the rates it pays for the same procedures can vary by
thousands of dollars, even within the same city.  Wide Variation  The California pension, known as Calpers, became a partner
in the pilot program after a WellPoint analysis found similar
hip and knee surgeries cost anywhere from $15,000 to $110,000
per patient, depending on the hospital. The 2009 data don’t show
any improvement in outcomes based on price, said Sam Nussbaum,
the carrier’s chief medical officer.  Starting in 2011, Calpers and WellPoint’s Anthem Blue Cross
unit began steering members toward 46 hospitals that agreed to
keep their costs below $30,000 -- known as the programs
“reference price.” While workers could go to another provider,
they were responsible for any additional costs.  About 400 members opted for the designated hospitals in
2011, a 21 percent increase over previous years. Calpers’ in-patient costs for hip and knee surgeries dropped to an average
of $28,695 from $35,400, according to WellPoint.  The study was conducted by HealthCore, a research unit
owned by WellPoint, and released at the AcademyHealth Annual
Research Meeting in Baltimore.  ’Not Sustainable’  The program has proven to be “an effective tool in
managing costs,” said Ann Boynton, Calpers’ deputy executive
officer. “We all know that current spending levels are not
sustainable if we’re going to provide benefits that are
affordable now and into the future.”  Members’ out-of-pocket costs for deductibles and
coinsurance showed little change under the program, while health
outcomes stayed steady or improved, Nussbaum said in a phone
interview. Rates of both hospital-acquired infections and
readmissions were lower, compared with a group of knee and hip
patients who didn’t use the designated hospitals, according to
the study.  The pension fund has 357,000 members in  California  covered
by WellPoint. Since it started with reference pricing, 10 more
hospitals have lowered their prices below the $30,000 threshold
to gain access to the program, Nussbaum said.  Others are showing interest as well. In California, more
than a dozen Anthem clients plan to adopt similar measures next
year, said Goulet, the company executive.  Meanwhile,  Kroger Co. (KR) , the nation’s largest grocery-store
chain, has implemented reference prices for a variety of imaging
procedures, including MRIs and CT scans, he said. The
Cincinnati-based company is using the program in 10 states,
Goulet said.  “It’s starting to move forward,” he said. “Employers
seem very comfortable saying to employees, ‘I want you to shop
for medical care, just like you do for a car or for clothes or
for other purchases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  