-- Swiss Re to Trim Costs and Buy Bank Debt to Lift Profitability
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-06-24T06:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/swiss-re-to-trim-costs-and-buy-bank-debt-to-lift-profitability.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, plans to reduce costs and repurchase debt as
it seeks to boost profitability and increase its dividend.  Swiss Re expects costs savings of as much as $300 million
by 2015, which will be redeployed to areas offering “attractive
financial returns,” the company said in a statement before a
meeting with investors in Zurich today. The firm plans to cut
leverage by more than $4 billion by 2016 and said a subsidiary
is offering to repurchase three tranches of senior debt.  The reinsurer, which is targeting an average annual
increase in earnings per share of 10 percent until 2015,
reiterated its intention to address lagging profitability in the
traditional life business, which is under pressure amid low
interest rates and subdued demand.  “Our strategy has produced excellent results and we
continue to focus on performance and growth,” Chief Executive
Officer Michel Lies said in the statement. “Our top priority is
delivering on the financial targets set for 2011-2015.”  Swiss Re aims to improve the performance of its individual
U.S. life portfolio written before 2004, which isn’t meeting its
original profitability expectations, the company said. Swiss Re
expects the life and health unit to generate return on equity of
between 10 percent and 12 percent by 2015.  Swiss Re said “near-term management actions to improve
profitability” will temporarily reduce life & health
reinsurance earnings next year by about $500 million before tax.
The company wants to improve margins by expanding in areas such
as longevity reinsurance after net income in life & health
reinsurance more than halved last year.  The company said it wants to increase the dividend. Earlier
this year, the company paid out a special dividend of 4 Swiss
francs a share, and boosted the ordinary dividend to 3.50 francs
from 3 francs, exceeding estimates.  Swiss Re, which said earlier it may buy a further $5
billion of corporate debt this year, confirmed it will continue
to move towards high-quality corporate debt and a reduction in
government bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  