-- U.K. Pledges Extra Money to Help Troubled Families
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-06-24T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/u-k-pledges-extra-money-to-help-troubled-families.html
U.K. Chief Secretary to the Treasury
 Danny Alexander  announced a 200 million-pound ($310 million)
expansion of a program under which government agencies intervene
in the lives of troubled families to cut crime and  joblessness .  The funding aims to reduce the amount spent overall by the
police, social workers, doctors and schools dealing with
families whose lives are at risk of “spiraling out of
control,” the Treasury in  London  said in an e-mailed statement
today. A one-time average investment of 4,500 pounds in work
with each family is expected to reduce the annual 15,000-pound
cost of dealing with their problems, it said. The increased
spending in the year beginning April 2015 will expand the
program to 400,000 households.  “The troubled-families program is a radical example of
how, by spending a bit more in certain areas, we can save much
more in others and by doing so create a stronger economy and a
fairer society,” Alexander, a member of the Liberal Democrats
in the coalition government, said today at the  Family Recovery
Project  in Wandsworth, southwest London, according to his
office. “Extending this intensive help to 400,000 more families
will enable us to tackle problems such as truancy, anti-social
behavior and crime.”  The announcement came after Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  reached agreement with his fellow ministers to
cut 11.5 billion pounds from spending for the year beginning
April 2015. The Liberal Democrats, led by Deputy Prime Minister
 Nick Clegg , are seeking to convince voters in the run-up to the
2015 general election that they are acting as a socially liberal
brake on spending reductions by Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservatives.  Osborne will set out details of his spending cuts in a
statement in Parliament on June 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  