-- Ukrainian Tycoon Buys Magazine That Investigated Him
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-06-24T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/ukrainian-tycoon-buys-magazine-that-investigated-him.html
(Corrects type of liquefied gas in fifth paragraph.)  If you don’t like what the press is
writing about you, buy the press. Judging from recent events,
this is the approach of a Ukrainian businessman who has been the
subject of investigative reporting by the Kiev edition of Forbes
magazine.  The businessman in question, 27-year-old “multimillionaire
from nowhere” Sergei Kurchenko, has just acquired the Forbes
licensee, UMH Group. Until recently, UMH was the only large
media holding in  Ukraine  whose owners had no potentially
conflicting interests outside the media market. (Disclosure: I
was editor of a UMH-owned publication, Forbes.ua, throughout
2012.)  Observers in Kiev believe the deal has political
implications in the run-up to the 2015 presidential election. In
any case, it offers a study in the way media are faring under
the post-Soviet authoritarian regimes. Direct suppression is not
necessary when a simple change of ownership that looks like an
ordinary business deal can be arranged.  On November 12, 2012, Forbes.ua ran a  story  titled “The
Gas King of All Ukraine.” It was the first detailed look at
Kurchenko, a dynamic and powerful newcomer to the nation’s
business scene. Until then, Kurchenko had been a complete
unknown. Not even his photograph could be found until an
anonymous well-wisher mailed a Forbes.ua journalist a scan of
his passport.  The story described the meteoric rise of a group called
GazUkraina-2009, which in less than a year became a leading
importer of petroleum products, particularly liquefied petroleum
gas. The journalists found a collection of seemingly unconnected
businesses, some of which repeatedly won contract tenders held
by state-owned energy companies. Interviews with numerous
government officials and energy traders, all of whom spoke on
condition of anonymity, suggested the success was due to
Kurchenko’s connections at the state companies and the
Prosecutor General’s Office. The government officials said that
GazUkraina’s companies were adept at evading  import duties  on
fuel, by bringing it into the country purportedly for processing
and export.  Kurchenko declined to be interviewed, and his
representatives denied that the companies mentioned in the story
had anything to do with him or GazUkraina. As editor of
Forbes.ua at the time, I saw angry letters from GazUkraina
threatening to sue Forbes Ukraine and UMH Group unless the story
was retracted. Ultimately, no lawsuits were filed.  After the story, Kurchenko embarked on a publicity
offensive. In December 2012, he acquired the popular soccer club
Metalist, which later won second place in the national
championship. He reportedly paid $300 million for the team and
another $70 million for its stadium.  In his first  interview , granted in May to the weekly
Korrespondent, another UMH title, he said that the team lost $70
million a year but would be a good investment in the future.
More likely, he was following in the footsteps of Russian
billionaire  Roman Abramovich , whose acquisition of the Chelsea
football club in London helped him gain acceptance as a
legitimate businessman in the U.K.  The Metalist deal did little to improve Kurchenko’s public
image. Tens of thousands of Metalist fans flocked to the Forbes
website to read the Forbes investigation, by then expanded and
 published  in the print version. Other Ukrainian publications,
including the popular  website  Ukrainskaya Pravda, linked
Kurchenko to powerful people in President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s
home region of Donbass and then to Yanukovych’s family.  “Just six months ago, no one knew of GazUkraina-2009 and
Sergei Kurchenko,” Ukrainskaya Pravda  wrote  in March. “It
seemed as though he cast no shadow. The group’s entities have
been linked to smuggling operations that cost the state budget
billions. The same entities had huge success in the completely
corrupt government purchase system. In Ukraine, such things are
possible only when top officials are personally interested.”  By June, Kurchenko had made his move into the media market:
UMH Group owner Boris Lozhkin agreed to sell 98 percent of his
company to Kurchenko’s new company, VETEC, for an undisclosed
sum estimated at between $300 million and $400 million.
According to Lozhkin, Kurchenko will have paid the full amount
to the shareholders by March 2014, at which point he will take
over management of the media group, currently the Ukrainian
market leader in radio, print and Internet media. Apart from
Forbes, it publishes the Ukrainian edition of  Conde Nast ’s
flagship magazine, Vogue, and a number of other titles.  “Everything happened very fast,” Lozhkin  said  to
Forbes.ua. “At 27 a person’s reputation is only just forming
and I think Mr. Kurchenko has every chance to build up a good
reputation.”  The magazine’s editor, Vladimir Fedorin, responded with a
terse  statement  published on Forbes.ua. “I consider the sale of
Forbes Ukraine the end of the project in its current form,”
Fedorin wrote. “I am convinced that the buyer is pursuing one
of three goals: 1) to silence journalists before the
presidential election; 2) to whitewash his reputation; 3) to use
the publication for purposes that have nothing to do with the
media business.” Fedorin said that he would stay on until
October to wrap up his involvement in the project.  Ukrainian journalists expressed concern and outrage at the
change of the media company’s ownership. “All of Kurchenko’s
business was built up using the government machine,”
investigative reporter Mustafa Nayyem  commented  on Facebook.
“The only function of UMH in this scheme is to keep the
government machine in the hands of those who allow him to expand
and protect his assets.”  Possibly the most famous Ukrainian, world boxing champion
turned politician Vitali Klitschko, agreed that Kurchenko’s
purchase was a political deal. “According to the information I
get, he is just a person who has been made the public face, a
front for other people who are well known but they do not want
to go public with this business,” he said.  Just two days before the UMH deal was announced, Mako, the
business group led by Yanukovych’s eldest son Oleksandr,
suddenly issued a  press release  denying any involvement, even
though no one had suspected Mako of it.  In written answers to a Forbes reporter’s questions,
Kurchenko  said  that he was merely interested in the media
business and promised his new company’s journalists editorial
independence. “This is a business and investigations are part
of it, so we will not hinder its development,” he said.
Kurchenko indicated he bore Forbes no grudge for the original
story but would not comment on its substance, saying only that
“VETEC today has nothing to do with” GazUkraina-2009.  Forbes Inc. in the U.S. approved the deal and said it had
no plans to withdraw the Ukrainian license. “I am very happy
with the new opportunity for Forbes Ukraine,” Interfax Ukraine
 quoted  Miguel Forbes, the company’s president of television and
licensing, as saying. “We are totally confident in the UMH
management team and we believe the new cooperation will lead to
additional investment and expansion for Forbes in Ukraine.”  So now it is up to journalists at Forbes and other UMH
titles to decide whether they want to work for the man they
investigated. Media jobs in today’s Ukraine are as scarce as in
other ex-Soviet states, including  Russia . Deals similar to the
UMH one, which are “strictly business” on the surface, have
cleared the media landscape here of most publications that had
the temerity, and the audience, to try to call ruling regimes to
account.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 