-- Hungary Cuts Main Rate to Record as Bank Targets Growth
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-06-25T14:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/hungary-to-cut-rate-as-fed-plan-raises-risk-survey-shows.html
Hungary’s central bank cut its  main
interest rate  to a record low and pledged “increased caution”
as policy makers looked past a market rout sparked by the U.S.
Federal Reserve saying it may phase out stimulus.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank lowered the benchmark two-week
deposit rate to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent in an 11th
consecutive quarter-point cut, matching the forecast of all 25
economists in a Bloomberg  survey .  “As long as the outlook for inflation and the real economy
justifies it, interest rates can be reduced further,” the bank
said in a  statement  on its website after the decision.
“However, increased caution is warranted in the volatile and
rapidly changing global environment,”  Central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy, who took over in
March, wants to help ignite an economy emerging from a 2012
recession with inflation the slowest in almost 39 years.
Hungary’s scope to ease is narrowing amid an emerging-market
selloff after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the
U.S. central bank may start slowing the pace of its bond-buying
program this year if the world’s biggest economy continues to
improve.  The Hungarian central bank’s statement is predominantly
“dovish” given growth risks in western  Europe , while
acknowledging the changing environment, which may limit the room
in the easing cycle,  Luis Costa , an emerging-market strategist
at Citigroup Inc. said in an e-mail.  “All in all, I still believe the central bank will try to
cut rates a few more times before it calls for a pause, in the
absence of a major forint selloff,” Costa said.  Forint Advance  The forint strengthened 0.7 percent to 297.13 euro by 4:10
p.m. in Budapest, paring its loss in the past five days to 1.2
percent, the second-biggest drop after the Polish zloty among
more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
The forint is still the best performer in the group this quarter
with a 2.4 percent gain against the euro.  Global financial markets have become “more fragile” and a
“marked deterioration in the financial environment may limit
the room in which monetary policy can manoeuvre,” according to
the Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s statement.  The central bank lowered its inflation forecast and raised
its economic output projection for this year. Inflation may
average 2.1 percent in 2013, rather than the 2.6 percent
projection in March and the economy will expand 0.6 percent
instead of 0.5 percent, it said on its website today. Price
growth will probably average 3.2 percent in 2014, when gross
domestic product will expand 1.5 percent, the bank said.  Bonds Gain  The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year forint bond
fell to 6.70 percent from 6.87 percent yesterday, the highest in
six months, according to generic data compiled by Bloomberg. The
cost to insure the country’s debt against non-payment for five
years using credit-default swaps fell to 350 basis points from
366 yesterday, the highest since April 3, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Although in recent weeks international sentiment
deteriorated significantly, raising  Hungary ’s credit-default
swaps and bond yields, the medium-term inflation outlook
justified the central bank’s decision,” Gergely Gabler, an
analyst at Equilor Befektetesi Zrt. in Budapest, said in an e-mail. Equilor expects the central bank to halt rate cuts after
lowering the main rate to 4 percent.  Divided Response  Emerging-market central bankers are divided on how to
respond to the volatility triggered by the Fed’s plans to taper
its stimulus. Global investors pulled $6.9 billion from
emerging-market debt funds in the four weeks through June 19,
the most since 2011, EPFR Global data show. The MSCI All-Country
World Index sank the most in more than a year last week.  Poland should avoid cutting rates next month as the risk of
weakening the currency and triggering capital outflows outweighs
any benefit to the economy, central bank policy maker Andrzej Kazmierczak said in a June 21 interview. The country’s next rate
decision should be unaffected by the zloty’s deepest weekly
plunge in almost two years,  Jerzy Hausner , another rate setter,
said the same day.  In Hungary, the central bank has complemented 2.75
percentage points of rate cuts since August with a 750 billion
forint ($3.3 billion) plan to boost lending to small and mid-sized companies.  ‘Consideering Ways’  Hungary is playing catch-up in monetary easing after the
central bank under its previous leadership held the benchmark
rate at the highest level in the European Union until last year,
citing the inflation outlook and risk levels.  Still, the bank “is considering ways to signal to the
market the principles for ending the rate-cut cycle,” Vice
President Adam Balog said May 31. The bank has an internal study
on a “neutral  interest rate ” that doesn’t necessarily limit an
easing or tightening cycle, Balog said.  “The Monetary Council is ready to act if financial-market
conditions were to fundamentally reverse,” Janos Cinkotai, a
non-executive member of the rate-setting Monetary Council said
June 20. “The central bank has tools at its disposal to
intervene in case of financial-market turbulence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  