-- Hungary Yields Rise as Easing Cycle Seen Ending: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-06-24T12:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/hungary-yields-rise-as-easing-cycle-seen-ending-budapest-mover.html
Hungary’s bond yields rose to the
highest level in six months and the forint weakened as interest-rate derivatives signaled a 10-month long monetary loosening
cycle may be approaching its end.  Yields on the government’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose 31
basis points, or 0.31 percentage point, to 6.87 percent, the
highest since Dec. 5. The forint weakened, extending its
depreciation in the past five days to 3.2 percent, the worst
performance among more than 20 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Forward-rate agreements indicated no rate
cuts in three months and showed the biggest prospect of a rate
increase within six months since January 2012.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will probably cut its benchmark
rate by 25 basis points to a record 4.25 percent tomorrow,
according to all 25 analysts  polled  by Bloomberg. Emerging-market assets tumbled last week after Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the U.S. central bank may taper monthly bond
purchases later this year and halt them around mid-2014 as long
as the world’s biggest economy performs in line with its
projections.  Hungary’s FRAs used to wager on three-month  interest rates 
in three months from now traded at 4.46 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That is eight basis points  above  the
Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, showing the first time in year
that traders priced out a rate cut for that time period. The
spread between the six-month FRA and the BUBOR widened to 41
basis points.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps rose 10 basis points to 365, the highest
since April.  The forint weakened 0.3 percent to 300.4 per euro by 1:54
p.m. in Budapest.  “Although another 25 basis point rate cut can be seen as
certain, it is a question if the central bank will send a signal
on the rate path after the comments from the Fed and given the
rising bond yields and huge widening in the CDS spread,” Imre Kerekgyarto and Karoly Bamli, Budapest-based currency traders at
Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  