-- Georgia Postpones $157 Million Debt Sale as Yields Rise
-- B y   E m i l y   F r e e m a n   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-24T18:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/muni-sales-set-for-9-billion-as-yields-climb-to-20-month-high.html
Georgia  led municipal issuers
postponing $286 million in debt sales as yields in the $3.7
trillion U.S. local-securities market rose to the highest since
October 2011.  Issuers had planned to sell about $9 billion in long-term
debt this week, the most since April, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Georgia’s postponement today of $157 million of general-obligation borrowing joins delayed deals by municipalities
including Covington,  Tennessee , and  Kentucky ’s Fayette County
School District.  “Rate increases” caused Covington, a Mississippi River
city 37 miles (60 kilometers) northeast of  Memphis , to shelve
its $6 million general-obligation sale, said Treasurer Tina
Dunn. She said in a telephone interview that she didn’t know
when the municipality would try to issue the debt.  The yield on benchmark munis maturing in 10 years rose
about 0.22 percentage point to 2.68 percent as of 10 a.m. in New
York, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the highest since
October 2011.  Yields on munis increased along with those on U.S.
Treasuries after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
last week the central bank plans to slow its bond-buying program
this year and end its monthly purchases of federal debt and
mortgage securities in mid-2014 if the economy continues to
improve. That could terminate a source of demand that has
suppressed interest rates.  Illinois , the lowest-rated U.S. state, still plans to
proceed with a $1.3 billion sale for capital projects, said
Abdon Pallasch, the assistant budget director.  Note Sales  The $9 billion in total scheduled sales was the most since
localities borrowed about $12 billion in the week through April
12. The figure doesn’t include two $1.3 billion short-term note
sales, one from Los Angeles and the other by Posey County,
 Indiana , which is borrowing to finance a fertilizer plant.  The long-term debt estimate for this week also doesn’t
include about $3.3 billion that’s deemed day-to-day, which
signals that issuers may hold off borrowing until yields
stabilize or decline.  “With so many forces pushing this market cheaper, there
will be a re-entry point” for investors, Dan Toboja, vice
president of municipal trading at Ziegler Capital Markets in
 Chicago , said in an e-mail.  “Until the primary finds its footing and the secondary
reflects the new market yields, we have not seen the bottom,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emily Freeman in New York at 
 efreeman14@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  