-- Verizon Wins Suit Over $7.4 Billion Pension Transfer Sale
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-24T23:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/verizon-wins-suit-over-sale-of-7-4-billion-pension-obligation.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  won
dismissal of a lawsuit filed by pension plan beneficiaries
challenging the company’s decision to shed $7.4 billion in
obligations by buying a single-premium group annuity.  While U.S. District Judge Sidney A. Fitzwater in  Dallas 
today dismissed the lawsuit, he said the suing plan members can
file an amended complaint within 30 days that cures deficiencies
he identified in his ruling.  The initial complaint was filed last year on behalf of
about 41,000 now-former plan members, in an unsuccessful bid to
block the telecommunications company’s plan to purchase the
annuity. The transaction was completed in December for about
$8.4 billion.  Fitzwater rejected the claims of those whose interests were
transferred to Prudential that Verizon violated federal law by
failing to disclose the possibility of such a transaction in its
plan description and other claims.  He also dismissed their claims Verizon overpaid for the
annuity, and non-transferree assertions the company improperly
used plan assets to pay for the annuity and associated costs.  “Despite the size of the alleged additional payment, the
court cannot reasonably infer from the allegations of the
amended complaint that it was unreasonable to pay Prudential
approximately $8.4 billion in total,” Fitzwater said.  “The transferee class does not specify which aspects of
the extra $1 billion in expenditures were unreasonable or how
they were unreasonable,” he said.  Class Status  Those remaining in the plan failed to allege they hadn’t
gotten the benefits to which they were entitled, Fitzwater said.  The judge in March granted class action, or group, status
to transferee and non-transferee classes, allowing the former
group to press their claim New York-based Verizon violated U.S.
pension laws while enabling the latter to question how the
annuity was paid for.  “We are pleased with the court’s decision,” said Ray
McConville, a spokesman for Verizon.  Plaintiffs’ attorney Curtis L. Kennedy of Denver didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
court’s decision.  The case is Lee v. Verizon Communications Inc., 12-cv-4834,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  