-- Warner Bros. Film Chief Robinov Is Replaced by 3 PeoplPer
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-06-24T20:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/warner-bros-film-chief-robinov-is-replaced-by-3-person-team.html
Warner Bros . replaced film chief
Jeff Robinov, who helped oversee the Batman and Superman films,
the second senior executive to leave after losing a three-way
contest to lead the studio.  Sue Kroll, Greg Silverman and Toby Emmerich will lead the
studio’s motion-picture group, the Burbank, California-based
division of  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  said today in a statement.
Robinov’s departure was announced separately in a memo
distributed by Chairman Barry Meyer and Chief Executive Officer
Kevin Tsujihara.  Tsujihara won the competition replace Meyer as Warner Bros.
CEO in January over Robinov, 54, and then-television head Bruce Rosenblum. Robinov had a tense relationship with Legendary
Entertainment, co-producer of the Batman and Superman films,
which is now in talks with several studios for a new alliance.
Rosenblum joined Legendary last week.  Legendary CEO Thomas Tull said last week that he’s talking
to “everybody” in Hollywood about a new production alliance,
including incumbent Warner Bros.  Under the new structure, Kroll will serve as president of
worldwide marketing and international distribution. Silverman
will be president of creative development and worldwide
production, and Emmerich will continue as president and chief
operating officer of the New Line film label. He also will be
responsible for live stage productions, the studio said.  All three report to Tsujihara, according to the statement.  The studio also extended the contract of Dan Fellman,
president of domestic distribution, who reports to Tsujihara.
Veronika Kwan Vandenberg will continue as president of
international distribution, reporting to Kroll, Warner Bros.
said.  Time Warner, also owner of HBO and  CNN ,  fell  1 percent to
$56.28 at the close of  New York  trading. The stock has gained 18
percent this year, compared with a 10 percent increase for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  