-- Western Digital Buying Stec for About $340 Million
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-06-24T21:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/western-digital-buying-stec-for-about-340-million.html
Western Digital Corp. (WDC) , a maker of
hard drives, plans to acquire  STec Inc. (STEC)  for about $340 million
in cash to expand its solid-state memory capabilities.  Western Digital agreed to pay $6.85 a share for STec, a 91
percent premium over the latter’s closing price on June 21, the
companies said in statement. The deal has an enterprise value of
about $207 million, net of STec’s cash as of March 31, the
companies said.  Western Digital is looking to diversify beyond the  Irvine ,
California-based company’s hard-drive roots as consumer demand
for smartphones and tablets fuels a global slump in personal-computer sales. Demand for the NAND flash storage technology
STec provides is growing as companies like  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  rely on it for short-term data storage and users
increasingly use mobile devices to access the Internet, said
Steven Fox, an analyst at Cross Research.  “The demand for storage is growing rapidly and the demand
for solid-state disks is growing quicker than the demand for
storage.” said Fox, who has a  hold  rating on Irvine,
California-based Western Digital’s shares.  “Solid state storage in the enterprise will play an
increasingly strategic role in the future of Western Digital,”
Steve Milligan, Western Digital’s chief executive officer, said
in the statement. “This acquisition is one more building block
in our strategy to capitalize on the dramatic changes within the
storage industry.”  Proxy Fight  The deal is expected to be completed before the end of the
year.  Western Digital’s shares fell 2.7 percent to $58.54 at the
close in New York, paring its gains this year to 38 percent.
STec soared 87 percent to $6.71.  STec had been engaged in a proxy fight with Balch Hill
Capital LLC and its affiliates, which together said they own
about 9.9 percent of the company’s shares, making them the
biggest stakeholder.  They had questioned management’s ability to boost revenue
and had sought to have three of its board nominees elected next
month at STec’s annual meeting. Simon Michael, general manager
at Balch Hill, declined to comment on today’s deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  