-- White-Sugar Premium Advances on Limited Supplies; Cocoa Retreats
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-06-24T10:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/white-sugar-premium-advances-on-limited-supplies-cocoa-retreats.html
The  premium  white sugar commands
over the raw variety gained for a sixth day to the highest in
almost a year as supplies that can be delivered to the futures
market when the August contract expires in London remain
limited. Cocoa slipped.  White, or refined, sugar was $132.43 a metric ton more
expensive than the raw sweetener by 11:03 a.m. in London, the
most since July 2. That compares with $123.3 a ton for the most
active contract in the last trading session and represents a 23
percent increase over the past week, exchange data compiled by
Bloomberg showed. White sugar for August was also at a premium
to October, a market structure known as backwardation that may
signal tight supply. The August contract in  London  expires on
July 16.  “Although at this time of year there are few deliverable
origins, and although available origins such as  Mexico  have
technical problems which may prevent them being delivered, this
huge and sustained premium persuades us that white sugar is in
deficit,” Robin Shaw, an analyst at London-based broker Marex
Spectron Group, wrote in a report-emailed today, citing “the
absence of deliverable sugar for August.”  White sugar for August delivery jumped 2.6 percent to
$509.50 a ton on NYSE Liffe in London, after gaining 1.7 percent
in the past trading session. Raw sugar for delivery in October
climbed 1.2 percent to 17.13 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York.  “More refined can be produced quite quickly by the toll
refineries, which will convert this extra demand from white to
raws,” Shaw said. “At some stage we expect to ‘pay’ for this
high white premium by a period of lower premiums, especially as
from October the new Northern Hemisphere beet crops will all be
producing fresh white sugar.”  White sugar for August delivery was $25.04 a ton more
expensive than the futures for October, a 30 percent increase
from the past trading session. In New York, the price gap
between the July and October contracts has also narrowed. That
is partly due to buying from refiners to transform raw sugar
into the white variety, according to Marex Spectron.  Robusta coffee for delivery in September gained 0.5 percent
to $1,751 a ton on NYSE Liffe. Arabica coffee for delivery in
September gained 0.2 percent to $1.1955 a pound on ICE.  Cocoa for September delivery fell 0.6 percent to 1,429
pounds ($2,196) a ton in London. Cocoa for September delivery
retreated 0.1 percent to $2,150 a ton in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 