-- Two Syrian Chemical Weapons Attacks Reported by Rebels
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-06-24T21:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/two-syrian-chemical-weapons-attacks-reported-by-rebels.html
Syrian government forces yesterday
used chemical weapons against rebel-controlled areas in two
Damascus neighborhoods, according to reports cited by a
Washington-based group backing the Syrian opposition.  If confirmed, the attacks would indicate the Syrian regime
of President Bashar al-Assad is undeterred by the decision of
the U.S. and other nations to increase military support for the
rebels following earlier reports of chemical weapons use.  The U.S. decided earlier this month to provide small arms
and ammunition to Syrian rebel forces after saying tests had
confirmed the use of chemical weapons by Assad’s regime, which
has denied the allegations.  In the latest alleged incidents, the Syrian Support Group
said in a statement that it received reports from opposition
sources that chemical bombs were dropped on the eastern Damascus
neighborhood of Zamalka, killing six people and injuring dozens.
In addition, it said chemical-filled shells were fired into the
capital’s Qaboun district late in the day, with the casualty
figures not yet known.  Victims are being treated at rebel-run medical facilities
and doctors are attempting to determine the chemical used in the
attacks, according to Dan Layman, a spokesman for the Syrian
Support Group.  Victims’ symptoms included convulsions, chest and abdominal
pain, dizziness, breathing difficulty, and contraction of pupils
known as myosis, the group said.  There was no independent confirmation of the reports. The
U.S. State Department didn’t immediately respond to a question
about the alleged incidents.  The Syrian Support Group, a nonprofit group licensed to
raise funds for the Free Syrian Army, also said that rockets
fired by government aircraft destroyed most of a major hospital
in Deir Ezzor province on June 23. Medical personnel were able
to evacuate all patients from the hospital before the attack,
and only minor injuries have been reported, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  