-- World’s Worst Real Estate Bonds Targeted in Crunch
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-06-24T05:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/world-s-worst-real-estate-bonds-targeted-in-crunch.html
China ’s builders have been the
world’s worst-performing real-estate bonds this quarter as
Premier  Li Keqiang  allowed a record cash crunch to rebalance the
economy away from property investment.  Dollar-denominated notes sold by Chinese developers have
lost 4.1 percent this quarter, the most since the three months
ended Sept. 30, 2011 and the worst among peers in major
economies in Bank of America Corp.’s Global Corporates Real
Estate Index. That marks a reversal after the debt topped 2012
rankings with a 22 percent return. Australian builders lost 0.8
percent since March 31, while  Japan ’s shed 1.7 percent.  China is seeking to tighten control on real-estate lending
and expand property-tax trials to more cities after a three-year
campaign failed to damp prices. Data released this month showed
lopsided development in the world’s second-largest economy with
manufacturing contracting and exports slowing while home prices
jumped the most since December.  “We have some doubt on Chinese growth momentum and are
worried about its credit leverage,” said Kim Jin Ha, the Seoul-based head of global fixed-income at Mirae Asset Global
Investments Co. “If policy makers want to keep leverage under
control, the property sector could come under further
pressure.”  Mirae, which manages $55 billion globally, has kept an
underweight position on Chinese developers this year and
“hasn’t played in that space for a long time,” Kim said in an
interview on June 19.  Rising Yields  Losses deepened this month amid a cash crunch that sent
benchmark interbank lending rates to the highest since at least
May 2006. Global investors pulled $6.9 billion from emerging-market debt funds in the four weeks through June 19, according
to EPFR Global data. Bonds tumbled worldwide after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central bank
may end its bond purchase program by mid-2014.  “The selloff in Treasuries has led to a correction in the
whole Asian credit market,” said Leong Wai Hoong, who invests
in high-yield debt in  Singapore  at Nikko Asset Management Co.
“It has caused a revaluation of the whole asset class, and not
just the Chinese property sector.”  Yuexiu Property Co.’s notes maturing in January 2023
tumbled 8.4 percent this quarter. China Central Real Estate
Ltd.’s June 2018 callable notes have also slumped 8.4 percent
while the November 2022 bonds of China Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd. dropped 8 percent.  Home Prices  Yields on Chinese real estate bonds have jumped 98 basis
points this quarter to 8.54 percent, the highest since Nov. 23
and up from a record-low of 6.96 percent on May 10, based on the
weighted average rate of 80 straight bonds tracked by Deutsche
Bank AG.  New home prices cost more in 69 of 70 cities tracked by the
government in May from a year earlier, official data showed on
June 18. Prices rose by 6.9 percent on average last month,
according to a survey of 100 cities published on June 7 by
SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest real estate website
owner.  “Should home prices continue to go up, we do not rule out
the risk of further policy tightening in the property sector,”
Jacphanie Cheung, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at Deutsche
Bank, said in an interview on June 19. Those curbs may include
limits on pre-sale permits and home mortgages, she said.  Delayed Sales  China is already struggling with tighter liquidity and the
current policy will choke credit expansion more noticeably for
the rest of 2013,  Fitch Ratings  said in a June 21 statement.
Chinese companies delayed almost 7 billion yuan ($1.1 billion)
of bond sales last week. Local governments and developers are at
risk of funding pains, Nomura Holdings Inc. said.  The one-day repurchase rate touched an unprecedented high
of 13.91 percent on June 20, prompting speculation the central
bank was forced to pump liquidity, before diving the next day by
the most since 2007. There’s a reasonable amount of liquidity in
the financial system and lenders should control risks from
credit expansion, the central bank said in a statement dated
June 17 and published on its website today in Beijing.  The government’s broadest measure of credit rose 58 percent
to a record $1 trillion in the first quarter, with the increase
driven by shadow-banking transactions such as trust loans. Bank
lending for projects in industries with overcapacity must be
banned, the State Council said after a June 19 meeting.  Leverage Concerns  The pullback in property bonds wasn’t triggered by a
breakdown in company fundamentals, according to Carman Wong,
head of emerging-market debt in  Hong Kong  at ABN Amro Private
Banking.  “Valuations were expensive before the latest selloff, and
leverage among the bigger companies remains at comfortable
levels,” Wong said in a phone interview on June 20. Her firm
manages $18 billion in  Asia  and  Middle East . “We are not
getting out of this sector.”  China’s cash crunch has pushed up bond risk. Credit-default
swaps for five years surged to 134 basis points on June 20, the
highest in more than 12 months, according to data provider CMA,
which compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Contracts on bonds of Agile Property Holdings Ltd., the
builder based in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou, rose to
an 11-week high of 701 on June 11, CMA data show. The cost of
insuring the debt of Hong Kong-based Shimao Property Holdings
Ltd. has risen 53 from a two-year low of 639 on May 7.  Changing Preferences  The yield on China’s 10-year government bonds touched 3.7
percent on June 20, the highest since November 2011, Chinabond
data show. The  yuan  was at 6.1376 per dollar as of 12:49 p.m.
today in  Shanghai , according to China Foreign Exchange Trade
System prices.  While Chinese developers have sold $13.5 billion of dollar-denominated bonds this year, surpassing the $10.5 billion in all
of 2012, no company has tapped the market since Central China
Real Estate Ltd. issued $400 million five-year bonds on June 4,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The slump has vindicated analysts from Morgan Stanley to
Deutsche Bank AG, who reduced their recommendation on the sector
since late last year, citing concerns about the economic
slowdown and leverage.  “The bullishness in the market has clearly changed this
year and for us, the overweight on the property sector has also
been cut down in favor of holding more high-grade and cash,”
said Nikko Asset Management’s Leong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  