-- World Bank Is Told to Dump Rankings From ‘Doing Business’
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-06-24T13:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/world-bank-is-told-to-dump-rankings-from-doing-business-.html
The  World Bank  should stop ranking
countries on how business-friendly they are, according to an
independent review that said an annual listing creates perverse
incentives for governments.  The bank’s annual “Doing Business” publication should
continue under a new title and with a new methodology,  Trevor Manuel , a former South African finance minister who led the
audit, told reporters in  London  today.  World Bank President Jim Yong Kim has already said he’s
committed to continuing the report, which non-profit groups
including Oxfam have criticized and governments including
 India ’s have reportedly objected to. He has also pledged to push
staff to improve its data, methodology and rankings. Jeffrey
Owens, of the Institute for Austrian and International Tax Law,
said governments had started trying to game the report.  “Tax is a good example,” Owens told reporters at the
publication of the audit. “In some countries policy has been
defined by the need to move up the rankings.”  The audit cites  Georgia  as a country that saw a
“substantial” improvement in the index in 2007 partly as a
result of scrapping labor protections. “They went to the point
of abolishing their health and safety agency,” said Peter
Bakvis, director of the International Trade Union Confederation,
one of the advisers to Manuel’s panel.  The panel was appointed in October by Kim,  citing  “issues
that have been raised by policy makers, executive directors and
other stakeholders” about the 10-year-old report.  ‘Not Proper’  Indian Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram, whose
country ranked 132nd in the 2013 report, said in a March speech
the methodology of the ranking was “not proper” and that his
government had written a letter of complaint to the bank,
according to The Hindu newspaper.  “It is indisputable that ‘Doing Business’ has been an
important catalyst in driving reforms around the world,” Kim
said earlier this month after receiving early conclusions from
Manuel. “I am committed to the ‘Doing Business’ report, and
rankings have been part of its success.”  Topping the report’s 2013 edition, published in October
last year, was Singapore, followed by  Hong Kong ,  New Zealand  and
the U.S. Farther down the list was  China , the world’s second-largest economy, which was placed 91st, behind No. 76 Mongolia,
83rd-ranked Moldova and Albania in the 85th position.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  