-- World Cup Organizers Tell Brazil Protestors Event Creates Jobs
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-24T19:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/world-cup-organizers-tell-brazil-protestors-event-creates-jobs.html
Organizers of soccer’s  World Cup 
responded today to street protests by saying the tournament is
creating thousands of jobs and “doing plenty of good things”
for  Brazil , which has spent almost 30 billion reais ($13.5
billion) on infrastructure projects for the 2014 event.  Senior officials from FIFA, soccer’s governing body; the
Brazilian government; and local World Cup organizers gathered in
Rio de Janeiro to issue data that they say proves hosting
sport’s most watched event next year will be a boost for the
country and not a burden that diverts public funds.  More than 1 million people have taken to the streets amid
complaints that Brazil’s focus on the sporting events has taken
funds from education and health-care programs. They are the
country’s largest protests since 1992, when Brazilians called
for the impeachment of President Fernando Collor.  “I think there’s a need to express all the good jobs we
are doing,”  Jerome Valcke , FIFA’s general secretary, told
reporters at the Maracana stadium. “We are doing plenty of good
things. It’s never enough, but I’m not ashamed of what we are
doing.”  FIFA  said it expects to collect more than $4 billion from
the sale of television and marketing rights for the 32-team
World Cup. Brazil currently is hosting the Confederations Cup, a
test for the World Cup that has been played amid countrywide
protests that have grown larger since the opening game on June
15, where Brazil President Dilma Rousseff and FIFA head  Sepp Blatter  were jeered.  Police Action  In two days, Brazil meets  Uruguay  in the first
Confederations Cup semifinal in  Belo Horizonte , a city where
police used tear gas and fired rubber bullets at demonstrators
who tried to get into the stadium as Japan and  Mexico  played on
June 22.  Valcke said the events have created thousands of jobs in
the catering and hospitality sectors and that FIFA will be
paying 448 million reais on hotel rooms at the World Cup. The
soccer body is also spending $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion to
stage the tournament, including prize money, and any profits
won’t be “used to run around in a big  Mercedes Benz  but to
develop the game around the world,” he said.  Protestors have lashed out at FIFA’s demands of tax
exemptions for corporate partners such as Coca-Cola Co. and
 Adidas AG (ADS) , as well as hosting requirements that needed the
Brazilian parliament to pass special legislation. Fans at
Confederations Cup matches have chanted and displayed banners
opposing the competition in Brazil, which has won the World Cup
a record five times.  ‘Take Everything’  “FIFA is the real president of this country,” Romario, a
former World Cup champion and now a member of the Brazilian
Chamber of Deputies, said two days ago. “FIFA comes to our
country and imposes a state within a state. It’s not going to
pay taxes, it’s going to come, install a circus without paying
anything and take everything with it.”  Brazil is spending almost 30 billion reais to host the
World Cup in 12 cities. Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo said today
that the government hadn’t explained clearly enough that most of
the costs are for projects Brazil needed even without the World
Cup or the 2016 Olympics.  “There’s been failure of communication,” Rebelo said. “I
must emphasize the budget that the country will have for health
and education comes up to 177 billion reais this year alone,
that’s the budget for 2013. The budget for the sport ministry
represents 1 percent of that value, including expenses for the
World Cup and the Olympics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  