-- Brent Trades Near Three-Week Low on China Growth Concern
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-06-24T12:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/wti-trades-near-two-week-low-enbridge-shuts-oil-pipeline.html
Brent crude  traded near its lowest
level in three weeks after slipping below $100 a barrel amid
speculation that a cash crunch may restrain economic growth in
 China , the world’s largest energy user.  Brent was little changed, having slumped 4.7 percent last
week, the biggest loss since April. The People’s Bank of China
said the nation should fine-tune its policies as a cash squeeze
in the banking system risks exacerbating an economic slowdown.
The U.S. and 10 other countries pledged June 22 to increase
support for rebel forces in Syria.  Hedge funds  and other large
speculators boosted net-long positions in Brent and West Texas
Intermediate crude last week.  “All of a sudden, demand concerns are back in focus and
nobody is speaking about supply risks anymore,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. The bank
forecasts that Brent will average $105 during the next quarter.
“ China’s economy  seems to be slowing down further,” he said.  Brent for August settlement was at $100.63 a barrel, 28
cents lower on the ICE Futures Europe exchange at 1:52 p.m.
London time, after temporarily dropping below $100 for the first
time since June 3. The European benchmark grade was at a premium
of $7.06 to West Texas Intermediate compared with $7.22 on June
21.  WTI for August delivery was 12 cents lower at $93.57 a
barrel electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
having slid as much as $1.02 to $92.67 a barrel. The contract
lost $1.45 on June 21 to settle at $93.69, the lowest close
since June 4.  Macro Sentiment  “Macro sentiment and fund flows continue to be a challenge
for price appreciation” for Brent prices, Adam Longson, an
analyst Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a report. The bank
predicts that the spread between Brent and WTI may struggle to
converge further than $6 a barrel.  China’s manufacturing will shrink at a faster pace this
month, a preliminary indicator showed last week. The country is
also the world’s second-largest oil consumer, accounting for 11
percent of global demand in 2012, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S. is the biggest user
at 21 percent.  Liquidity Crunch  “What prompted the fine-tuning comment was this liquidity
crunch in China, which is bearish for crude,” said  Victor Shum ,
the vice president at IHS Energy Insight, a consultant in
 Singapore . “The geopolitics provide some support to oil while
most economic factors point downwards.”  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and foreign ministers
from nations including  Saudi Arabia ,  Egypt , France and Germany
adopted a joint statement on June 22 after a meeting in Doha to
allow “each country in its own way” to aid the Syrian rebels.
The lack of public agreement on a military strategy for aiding
the Syrian opposition battling the regime of President Bashar al-Assad underscored divisions within the informal coalition.  Energy traders monitor fighting in Syria in case the
conflict spills over into other Arab oil-exporting nations.  “That Middle Eastern premium should go” after the victory
of President-elect Hassan Rohani in  Iran , said  Jonathan Barratt ,
the chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity
newsletter in Sydney, who predicted investors may buy WTI
contracts around $92.50 a barrel.  Bearish Crossover  WTI’s moving average convergence-divergence indicator slid
below its signal line on June 21, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Investors typically sell contracts on a so-called
bearish MACD crossover. Crude fell to its 200-day moving average
on May 23 a day after a similar chart pattern. The 200-day mean
is at about $92.30 a barrel today.  Hedge funds boosted net-long position on WTI by 13 percent
in the week ended June 18, according to the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. Managed money bets that prices will
rise, in futures and options combined, outnumbered short
positions by 262,239 futures, the Washington-based regulator
said in its weekly report on June 21.  Money managers raised  bullish bets  on Brent crude to their
highest level in four months, according to data from ICE Futures
 Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 185,653 lots in
the week ended June 18, the London-based exchange said today in
its weekly Commitments of Traders report. The increase of 25,620
contracts, or 16 percent, is the biggest jump in percentage
terms since Jan. 29 and brings Brent net-long positions to the
highest since Feb. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  