-- WTI Oil Rises After Flooding Shuts Alberta Pipelines
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-06-24T19:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/wti-crude-falls-to-three-week-low-on-china-growth-concern.html
West Texas Intermediate crude gained
for the first time in four days after three pipelines in  Alberta 
were shut because of flooding, sending Brent oil’s premium to
WTI to the narrowest level in more than two years.  WTI futures advanced 1.6 percent, the biggest increase
since June 3.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  has yet to restart the pipelines
shut by a leak related to severe flooding and hasn’t offered a
timeline for service resumption.  Canada  is the biggest source of
U.S. crude imports, Energy Information Administration data show.  “There’s a lot of concern in the market about the
situation in Alberta,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures
division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. “It appears
that the impact of the flooding will be worse that was earlier
projected. The loss of Canadian barrels should increase the
demand for U.S. grades such as WTI.”  WTI crude for August delivery rose $1.49 to settle at
$95.18 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Earlier,
prices fell as much as $1.02 to $92.67 a barrel, the lowest
level since June 4. The volume of all futures traded was 24
percent above the 100-day average for the time of day at 3:02
p.m.  Brent oil for August settlement increased 25 cents to end
the session at $101.16 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Volume for all contracts was 4.1 percent below
the 100-day average for the time of day.  The European benchmark grade was at a premium of $5.98 to
WTI, the lowest based on settlement prices since Jan. 18, 2011.
It was $7.22 on June 21.  Enbridge Shutdowns  Enbridge closed the 12-inch Line 37, which carries
synthetic crude from Nexen Inc.’s Long Lake oil-sands complex to
Cheecham, Alberta, after discovering a 750-barrel spill on June
22 north of there. The Athabasca and Waupisoo lines, which carry
crude south from oil-sands projects in Alberta, were shut as a
precaution.  Heavy rain that has flooded parts of Alberta since last
week may have caused the ground to move in the area of Line 37,
affecting the line’s integrity, Enbridge said.  “If that oil cannot be pumped and is stuck up in Canada,
then the market has to buy something else, which means another
midcontinent type of crude and that is supportive of WTI,” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.
“They can either buy WTI or other grades of Canadian crude that
benchmarked off WTI.”  U.S. Stockpiles  Canadian crude is sent by pipelines to the central U.S., a
region known as PADD 2, where supplies have dropped for three
weeks, according to the EIA. Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for New York futures, slid 669,000 barrels to
48.6 million in the week ended June 14, the lowest level since
December, the EIA said June 19.  “The flooding in Canada is likely to have an impact
because the flows coming to the U.S. could slow down,” said
Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd.,
a research company in  London . “If there is a prolonged outage,
less Canadian crude comes into PADD 2, and into Cushing, WTI
benefits. Some of the refineries in PADD 2 would take Cushing
crude if they could not get Canadian crude.”  The WTI market moved into backwardation, with futures
closest to expiration becoming more expensive than those for
later delivery.  Middle East  Syria ’s civil war ignited a new outbreak of sectarian
violence in Lebanon, with at least 37 people reported killed in
battles between the army and supporters of a cleric who declared
holy war on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The conflict has
bolstered concern that oil supplies from the Middle East may be
disrupted and helped send WTI to a nine-month high last week.  The Middle East accounted for 33 percent of global crude
output in 2012, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of
World Energy.  “There was an upsurge in violence in Lebanon and Syria
over the weekend that should help keep a floor under prices,”
Yawger said.  Hedge funds and other large speculators increased their
 net-long position  on WTI crude to the highest level in almost 16
months just before a market selloff began on June 19.  Money managers bolstered net-long positions on WTI by 13
percent in the week ended June 18, according to the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Managed money bets that
prices will rise, in futures and options combined, outnumbered
short positions by 262,239, the Washington-based regulator said
in its weekly report on June 21.  ‘Moving Violently’  “The market has been moving violently in large part
because speculative net-long positions were so high,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston.  Speculators and other money managers raised  bullish bets  on
Brent crude to their highest level in four months, according to
data from ICE Futures Europe. Speculative bets that prices will
rise, in futures and options combined, outnumbered short
positions by 185,653 lots in the week ended June 18, the
exchange said today in its weekly Commitments of Traders report.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
August was 22.1 percent, little changed from June 21, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 646,462
contracts as of 3:03 p.m. It totaled 683,777 contracts June 21,
11 percent above the three-month average. Open interest was 1.82
million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Barbara Powell in Houston at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  