-- Yen Strengthens From Two-Week Low on China Concern; Krona Rises
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-06-25T11:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/yen-gains-from-two-week-low-on-stock-declines-fed-comments.html
The yen strengthened from near a
two-week low against the dollar as speculation a cash crunch in
China will curb the nation’s economic growth supported demand
for the relative safety of Japan’s currency.  The yen advanced for a third day versus the euro after a
Chinese official said the  Bank of China  will closely monitor the
money-market rate. The Dollar Index dropped for the first time
in five days after two Federal Reserve presidents yesterday
emphasized monetary policy will remain accommodative. Sweden’s
krona rose from the weakest since November against the dollar as
producer prices fell less in May than economists forecast.  “The market did turn around aggressively when the
ramifications from China kicked into play,” said  Neil Jones ,
head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
in London. “There is a global recovery going on but it’s
fragile and people will run for the hills when they hear
comments like that.”  The yen rose 0.3 percent to 97.45 per dollar at 7:01 a.m.
in New York after sliding to 98.70 yesterday, the weakest level
since June 11. Japan’s currency advanced 0.2 percent to 127.93
per euro, extending its gain during the past three days to 0.5
percent. The dollar was little changed at $1.3134 per euro.  Chinese stocks have slumped since the nation’s overnight
repurchase rate jumped to a record on June 20. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. cut its 2013 gross domestic product forecast for the
nation yesterday, saying the cash squeeze is hurting growth.  China Risks  China ’s liquidity risks are controllable, Ling Tao, deputy
director of the PBOC’s Shanghai branch, said at a briefing in
Shanghai. The comments followed a PBOC statement released
yesterday saying there was a reasonable amount of liquidity in
the system and urging banks to control risks from lending.  Volatility in currencies surged since the Fed signaled last
week it may start reducing stimulus this year. JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  Group of Seven Volatility Index , based on currency option
premiums, was at 11.66 percent today after rising to 11.96
percent yesterday, the highest since January 2012.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 the Fed may begin
tapering bond purchases this year and end them in mid-2014. The
central bank has been buying $40 billion of mortgage-backed
securities and $45 billion of  U.S. government debt  each month to
put downward pressure on borrowing costs.  ‘Dialing Back’  “What we’re talking about here is dialing back,”  Richard Fisher , president of the Fed Bank of  Dallas , said in London
yesterday. “The word ‘exit’ is not appropriate here,” he said.
Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said yesterday
the Fed must emphasize in its statement that policy will remain
accommodative “for a considerable time.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to monitor the U.S. currency against those of six trading
partners, fell 0.3 percent to 82.299, after climbing to 82.841
yesterday, the strongest since June 5.  “The speeches we had in recent days haven’t really altered
the announcement that we had last week,” said Michael Sneyd, a
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. The dollar will
probably resume gains “particularly against other low-yielding
currencies -- sterling, the euro and the yen in particular.
There’s lot of scope for dollar-yen to rise.”  The krona rose for the first time in five days as
 Statistics Sweden  said producer prices fell 0.1 percent in May
from April, when they dropped 1.1 percent. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg predicted a decline of 0.2 percent.  Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said he welcomed a
weaker  exchange rate  “when we see problems in the world
economy.”  He spoke in a telephone interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson .  The krona climbed 1.4 percent to 6.66744 per dollar after
sliding to 6.8018 yesterday, the weakest since Nov. 16. The
currency rose 1.2 percent to 8.7664 per euro.  Norway’s krone gained 0.9 percent to 6.0825 per dollar,
halting a six-day slide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  