-- Zambia Bond Exchange Plans Market to Rival Lusaka Bourse
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-06-24T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/zambia-bond-exchange-plans-market-to-rival-lusaka-bourse.html
Zambia’s Bond and Derivatives
Exchange plans to open a second debt-trading platform in
 Africa ’s biggest copper producer by February to rival the Lusaka
Stock Exchange, a market official said.  The exchange, known as the Badex, may open trading of its
first product in about two weeks after simulated buying and
selling started on June 13, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Peter
Sitamulaho said yesterday by phone from Lusaka, the capital.
Kwacha-dollar currency futures will offer an exchange-risk hedge
after a law requiring companies exporting goods or services to
trade in kwacha came into effect in May 2012, he said.  “We are seriously entering the bond space very soon,”
Sitamulaho said. “We’ve already started negotiating with the
government and the central bank to see if we can start operating
in the secondary  bond market .”  The Badex will compete with the Lusaka exchange, which has
11 bonds listed according to its website, as the second market
for debt in Zambia, where the  International Monetary Fund 
forecasts economic growth of 7.8 percent this year. The new
bourse will offer a trading platform for both government and
corporate bonds, Sitamulaho said. A Badex team will study
markets in countries including  South Africa  and  Australia  before
opening its own, he said.  The kwacha retreated 2.3 percent against the dollar this
month, the second-worst performer among 24 African currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It traded 0.7 percent weaker at 5.46 per
dollar by 6:54 p.m. yesterday in Lusaka.  Following the introduction of the kwacha-dollar futures
contract, the bourse may start similar products to hedge against
the pound, euro and South African rand, Sitamulaho said. The
currency choices are based on regions that  Zambia  trades with,
he said.  The Badex is also planning a futures contract based on the
performance of some Lusaka-listed shares, Sitamulaho said. The
bourse’s main index advanced 22 percent this year.  Lusaka-based lenders Zambia National Commercial Bank Plc
and Finance Bank Zambia Ltd. have expressed interest in becoming
clearing banks for the Badex, Sitamulaho said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka via Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  