-- Zynga Falls as China Games Head Tian Leaves: San Francisc
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-06-24T17:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-24/zynga-falls-as-china-games-head-tian-leaves-san-francisc.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the largest maker of
games played on social networks, dropped more than 5 percent for
a second-straight trading day after it said Andy Tian, who
headed its Beijing game studio, is leaving the company.  The shares fell 6.8 percent to $2.53 at 12:41 p.m. in  New
York , and earlier touched $2.50 for the lowest price since Jan.
28. The stock had climbed 15 percent this year through June 21,
compared with a 12 percent gain for the Russell 1000 Index.  Tian will be succeeded by John Yin, who joined Zynga last
year from  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the company said. The executive
changes were first reported by the Wall Street Journal.  Zynga earlier this month said it’s trimming 18 percent of
the workforce to cut costs as game players shift from titles on
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , the San Francisco-based company’s core business,
to applications played on mobile devices. More than a half-dozen
other senior executives have left Zynga in recent months, as a
falling stock price erodes the value of equity used to
compensate staff. The shares have tumbled about 75 percent since
its December 2011 market debut.  Scott Devitt , an analyst at Morgan Stanley, last week
downgraded the stock and said the social-games maker may need to
trim more staff to make up for user declines.  A year ago, Zynga looked to expand its presence in China by
hiring engineers and striking a partnership with Sina Corp.’s
Weibo, a microblogging service with more than 300 million
registered users.  Zynga’s revenue fell 18 percent in the first quarter, and
analysts predict it will keep dropping for four more earnings
periods, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  