-- London Shrinks Faster Than Any Financial Center as Banks Come Under Attack
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-01-17T16:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/-bloated-london-banks-shrink-in-the-city-as-europe-takes-aim.html
London ’s  Square Mile  is shrinking
faster than any financial center in the world.  Having fired more employees than in any other country last
year, the capital’s banks are facing falling trading revenue,
attacks from politicians to reduce pay and more job cuts. The
U.K. government wants banks to split their consumer and
 investment banking  units while European Union leaders are
pushing to tax individual trades by the end of this year.  “We’re going to end up with a smaller, more focused
financial sector,” said Michael Kirkwood, 64, former head of
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s U.K. division, who began his career in the
Square Mile in 1965. “The entire financial world became too
bloated in the run up to the financial crisis, and London was
excessively bloated.”  London, the world’s biggest center for foreign-exchange
trading, cross-border bank lending and interest-rate
derivatives, is being squeezed by both the impact of the
European sovereign-debt crisis on demand for its services and
politicians who blame financiers for bringing the world economy
to the brink of collapse. Banks are responding to the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision’s latest rules by exiting
capital-intensive activities such as proprietary trading,
putting at risk the U.K.’s biggest exporting industry and 12
percent of its tax receipts.  RBS Cuts 3,500  “Most of the main sales and trading desks in  Europe ,
Middle East and Africa are here,” said Philip Keevil, a former
head of North American investment banking at S.G. Warburg & Co.
and now a partner at New York-based advisory firm Compass
Advisers LLP. “Insofar as global banks have to make cuts in
these areas because of Basel III and other regulations, then the
cuts will be in London.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , which got the world’s
biggest bank bailout, said last week it will close its equities
and corporate finance units, cutting as many as 3,500 jobs. The
division is unprofitable and the bank will “reduce in areas
where capital intensity is high,” it said. RBS has already cut
30,000 jobs since it was bailed out by the government in 2008
and 2009, costing 45.5 billion pounds ($69.7 billion).  U.K. Cutbacks  U.K. financial-services firms eliminated 58,000 jobs last
year, more than any other country in the world and 45 percent of
the cutbacks announced by all western European banks, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The numbers include worldwide
cuts by U.K.-based financial companies such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and exclude reductions in London by overseas banks such as
Credit Suisse Group AG.  Employment for London’s bankers dropped 8.5 percent last
year compared with 2010 and over the next two years will remain
below 1998 levels, according to the Centre for Economics &
Business Research Ltd. U.S finance jobs dropped 1.7 percent in
the same period, according to headhunting firm  Challenger, Gray
& Christmas Inc. , citing U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.  The industry’s contribution to U.K. gross domestic product
shrank from 2009 to 2010, the first time in a decade, according
to  TheCityUK , a lobby group, which cited data from the Office of
National Statistics. Financial services dropped to 8.9 percent
of GDP in 2010, the latest data available, from 10.1 percent in
2009. That’s still up from 5.2 percent of GDP in 2000.  “The whole industry needs to be consolidated and needs to
be shrunk,” said  John Mann , a Labour Party lawmaker. “It’s too
powerful. That is to the huge detriment of the long-term
sustainability of economic growth in this country.”  Tax Revenue Declines  The shrinking financial sector is lowering Britain’s tax
revenue, according to TheCityUK. Financial services paid 63
billion pounds in taxes last year, or 12 percent of total
revenue, it said, citing data from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
and the City of London Corporation. That’s down from 2007, when
the industry contributed 14 percent of tax receipts.  Tax revenue is being squeezed because banks are making
lower profits. Basel III’s capital and liquidity rules will cut
investment banks’ return on equity to 7 percent from 20 percent,
according to a  report  by New York-based McKinsey & Co. published
in September. That will reduce profit after tax to $30 billion
from $40 billion for the biggest 13 banks, it said.  “Institutions that aren’t in the top positions in certain
products will begin to exit those products,” said Giles
Williams, head of KPMG LLP’s financial-services regulatory
center of excellence in London. “Banks will focus on what they
are good at and what they’re famous for.”  Proprietary trading in fixed income, commodities and
derivatives markets may be the worst affected by the extra
capital requirements, Williams said.  UBS Cuts 2,000  “Trying to reduce the capital impact is clearly an aim for
many of the banks,” said Ian Baggs, global banking and  capital
markets  deputy leader at  Ernst & Young LLP  in London. Banks are
focusing on achieving a high volume of trades with client money
in markets such as interest-rate swaps rather than proprietary
trading, which uses the bank’s own money to take positions and
carries a high regulatory capital requirement, he said.  UBS AG (UBSN) , hit by a $2.3 billion trading loss in London,
announced a plan in November to shrink its investment bank to
focus on  wealth management  at a cost of 2,000 jobs. It plans to
exit asset securitization, complex structured products, macro-
directional trading and equity proprietary trading. The
investment bank’s European headquarters is in London and it
employs about 7,000 people in the U.K.  Smaller Stockbrokers  In the first quarter of last year, bank executives were
planning to cut costs by 10 percent to 15 percent to boost
return on equity targets, Ernst & Young’s Baggs said. Now
they’re targeting 40 percent cost reductions, he said.  Clients’ aversion to risk amid the turmoil in Europe is
also squeezing equity trading desks and smaller stockbrokers in
particular. Average trading volumes on the  London Stock Exchange 
has remained below pre-crisis levels, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley’s heads of European credit sales and
trading, emerging market fixed-income sales and trading departed
as well as two managing directors at its equities unit in
London.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  is also scaling back its European
expansion that began after the purchase of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEH) ’s European and Asian units in 2008.  Stockbrokers  Evolution Group Plc (EVG) , Merchant Securities Group
Plc, Arbuthnot Securities Ltd. and  Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc (CSHP) 
have all accepted takeover offers from larger competitors since
the end of October.  Economic Forecasts Reduced  “For firms that have revenue falling off a cliff with a
large cost base, the future is very bleak,” said Jamie Moyes,
who worked in sales trading at London-based brokerage  Liberum
Capital Ltd.  until September. “The events of the market place
are horrendous.” Moyes plans to help set up a stockbroking
firm, starting with about six partners.  Aside from trading, equity capital markets and merger and
acquisition advisory teams are also being slimmed down as a
result of lower demand from corporate clients because of the
European sovereign-debt crisis and worsening economic outlook.  The euro-region economy may expand 0.3 percent in 2012
instead of a previously forecast 1.3 percent, the  European
Central Bank  said on Dec. 8. Some forecasters, including Morgan
Stanley, project the region will shrink this year.  Firms in the U.K. raised 9.7 billion euros ($12.4 billion)
through share sales last year compared with 24.9 billion euros
in 2010 and 71.4 billion euros in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bonuses Decline  The reduced corporate activity is affecting pay. Bonuses
paid to the average London financial services worker for 2011
may shrink by about a fifth to 19,920 pounds, or 24 percent of
their base salary, according to a survey by recruitment firm
 Astbury Marsden .  While London’s banks have survived declines before, their
profitability is under a fresh attack from international
regulators. The European Commission, which drafts legislation
for the European Union, has proposed a transaction tax of 0.1
percent on trading of stocks and bonds, and a 0.01 percent rate
for derivatives contracts.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  called the
tax “a bullet aimed at the heart of London” and estimates as
much as 80 percent of the revenue raised will come from U.K.
firms. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said last week he’s
willing to impose the levy unilaterally in an effort to spur
other countries to join.  Transaction Tax  The European Commission estimates the tax on its own could
raise 57 billion euros a year. That’s optimistic because it
excludes the impact of lower capital-gains tax revenue and gross
domestic product, a study by Ernst & Young said this month.  The tax will increase transaction costs in the foreign-
exchange market by three to seven times and by as much as 18
times for the most traded parts of the market, a study by  Oliver
Wyman  commissioned by the  Global Financial Markets Association 
said today.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  insists Britain can veto
the EU tax, meaning countries within the 17-nation euro area may
need to introduce the levy on their own. That may still put
pressure on Britain should euro-region countries impose the tax
on euro-denominated products.  Talking Tough  European parliamentarians have also suggested rules to
force clearinghouses that handle euro-denominated securities to
be based within the euro region, prompting the U.K. to sue the
European Central Bank, saying the plan would compromise free
markets. London is home to 40 percent of the world’s over-the-
counter derivatives trades and LCH Clearnet Group Ltd., Europe’s
biggest clearinghouse.  While defending London’s financial interests in Europe, the
U.K. government has been talking tough on the industry at home,
where unemployment is at a 17-year high and the economy has
struggled to grow following the financial crisis four years ago.  Cameron used his first speech of the New Year to pledge an
end to bankers’ “excess” while Osborne said last week the
industry should be a “smaller slice” of the economy.  Cameron’s government last year accepted proposals from the
 Independent Commission on Banking  to force banks to insulate
their consumer banking units while increasing capital
requirements. Those recommendations will cost banks as much as 7
billion pounds annually to implement, the panel said.  Barclays, HSBC  Among the U.K. banks, the proposals will affect lenders
with investment banking divisions the most and  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  the least because it is mainly a retail bank,
according to analysts at HSBC Global Research on Jan. 10. HSBC,
RBS and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  all have investment banks.  London’s decline puts its status as the world’s premier
financial center under threat from  New York  and Hong Kong, which
are catching up, according to a survey of 1,887 executives by
financial-services research firm  Z/Yen , published in September.
The survey asked about issues such as regulation, tax and
lifestyle.  “London may not always be number one in the world, but it
will still be a strong financial center,” said Mark Yeandle,
Z/Yen’s associate director in London. “It’s not going to fall
out of the top five anytime soon.”  London’s Advantages  London’s strengths include its depth of expertise, time
zone, language and legal infrastructure, according to  Z/Yen . It
is home to 241 foreign banks, more than in any other country,
the biggest foreign-exchange market and the largest market for
interest-rate derivatives, with $1.4 trillion of daily revenue,
or 46 percent of the world’s total, according to the Bank for
International Settlements.  Ten years ago, London’s bankers were dealing with the
bursting of the dot-com bubble and were concerned the City would
be left behind as Europe began trading its single currency. It
went on to have its most profitable five years on record. This
time, bankers say they’re hoping history repeats itself.  The second half of 2011 “was the worst I can remember in
my career because we moved from a financial crisis to a
sovereign-debt crisis,” said Robert James, an analyst of
financial stocks at  Aviva Plc (AV/)  who has worked in London for 22
years. “Now the realization has dawned on the politicians that
they have to do something about it. That has to be a good thing
for 2012.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 