-- ‘Spider-Man’ Producers Sue Spurned Director, Julie Taymor
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-01-18T16:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/-spider-man-producers-countersue-taymor-saying-director-wouldn-t-fix-show.html
After the first preview of “Spider-
Man: Turn Off the Dark” on Nov. 28, 2010,  Michael Cohl , a
Canadian concert promoter and lead producer of the $75 million
musical, declared himself “ecstatic.”  “I thought the audience enjoyed it,” he was quoted saying
on the website of “Entertainment Weekly” the following day.
“It was a 10 out of a 10 in the category of first previews.”  Cohl and the show’s other producers recalled the evening
differently in a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
 Manhattan .  “The performance was a disaster,” they said in the
document -- a countersuit against the show’s former director,
Julie Taymor. The performance ran five hours, “suffered from
numerous technical problems, and had no ending.”  The 66-page countersuit includes the most complete
explanation to date of why producers early last year fired
Taymor, famed for her success in staging “The  Lion King ” on
Broadway.  She sued them in November 2011, claiming that they refused
to pay royalties guaranteed by her contract and violated her
intellectual-property rights by changing the show without her
permission. As the co-writer, she said she worked on the script
for more than seven years.  Taymor’s lawyer, Charles T. Spada, called the countersuit
“baseless” in a statement distributed by her spokesman, Chris
Kanarick. “In her lawsuit, Ms. Taymor will continue to
vigorously seek enforcement of her creative rights and will
respond to the defendants’ counter-claims, as well as their
outrageous mischaracterization and attempts to besmirch her
reputation.”  ‘Sex and Death’  Taymor “insisted on developing a dark, disjointed and
hallucinogenic musical involving suicide, sex and death,” the
producers said in their complaint. They said she “stormed out
of meetings if changes were even hinted at and stopped talking
to any member of the production who suggested that changes
should be made.”  When a cast member questioned a line because it wasn’t
well-received by the audience, she responded, “I don’t give a
f--- about audience reaction!” according to the countersuit.  Glen Berger, who collaborated with Taymor on the show’s
book, wrote that although “the show is failing,” she forbade
him from discussing it with producers.  “Word of mouth is poor,” Berger wrote in a Jan. 20, 2011,
e-mail to then-choreographer Daniel Ezralow. “Is that Julie’s
fault? Actually, no. But word of mouth is poor because of the
bookwriting. And if she refuses to substantively improve the
book, and the show subsequently closes, then yes, it will be
completely her fault,” Berger wrote.  Producers met with Taymor repeatedly in February 2011,
after reviews called the show incoherent and audience focus
groups expressed displeasure, according to the countersuit.  ‘Plan X’  Producers told her that given the reaction and ticket
sales, they’d be forced to close without improvements. They
supported a new storyline, dubbed “Plan X” by Berger, the
countersuit said. It diminished the role of Arachne, a mythical
spider woman prominent in Taymor’s vision, and hewed more
closely to the “Spider-Man” plot in comic books and films.  When she refused to go along with the rescue plan -- also
endorsed by Bono and the Edge of U2, the composers of the show -
- “the producers had no choice but to terminate Taymor as both
a collaborator and a co-bookwriter,” according to the
countersuit.  She was also fired as director, and replaced by Philip Wm.
McKinley. Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa assisted Berger on a new book.  The countersuit blames Taymor for production delays and
cost overruns. It said companies owned by Cohl and his partner,
Jeremiah Harris, “contributed over $20 million to support the
show.”  In addition to being Broadway’s most expensive show to
mount, “Spider-Man” has the highest operating costs, about
$1.1 million each week.  The show formally opened on June 14, 2011, after 182
previews, and has consistently ranked among Broadway’s top-
grossing shows. During Christmas week, it sold $2.9 million in
tickets over nine performances, a record week for a Broadway
show. Last week, its eight performances grossed $1.4 million,
behind “Wicked” and “The Lion King,” according to the
Broadway League, a trade group,  The case is  Julie Taymor  v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 1:11-
cv-08002-RJH, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  