-- Lab Torture or Pets, Dumb Humans Keep Texas Primate Haven Busy
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2012-01-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/lab-torture-or-pets-dumb-humans-keep-texas-primate-haven-busy-commentary.html
The approach to the  Born Free USA
Primate Sanctuary  in Dilley,  Texas , has an ominous look --
lonely dirt road, padlocked gate, a sign warning “Not Open to
the Public.”  Inside the fence, however, the place is full of life, with
dozens of macaque monkeys roaming the grounds.  The 186-acre sanctuary is the last home for macaques,
baboons and vervets, many saved from miserable existences in
roadside zoos, as lab experiments or, perhaps worst, as pets.  “There’s something inherently wrong with these animals
living their lives in little cages,” says the sanctuary
director, Tim Ajax.  Most of the more than 500 nonhuman primates here have the
run of a 56-acre area, while the rest stay in fairly spacious
enclosures.  “We’re at capacity right now,” Ajax says, but he’s
preparing for more newcomers.  Last August,  Wild Animal Orphanage  in  San Antonio , 75 miles
to the north, closed its doors “due to overpopulation,
underfunding and inadequate housing for the animals,” according
to its website. As a result, 112 macaques and one baboon will
soon be moving to the Born Free facility.  The new macaques had hard lives before San Antonio. A
rhesus female had been a pet in a tiny cage in a  New York  City
basement, her tail amputated to accommodate diapers. A Javan
male was a research subject in a New Jersey lab. A male stump-
tail, another former lab inmate, is missing some fingers.  Born to Be Wild  Many people try to make pets of monkeys without thinking it
through. Primates can’t be domesticated like a cat or a dog.
Eventually, usually around puberty, a seemingly tame creature
will start to act the way nature intended, like a wild animal.  In Dilley, the animals will be treated with respect, and
like animals. Human interaction is limited mostly to feeding
time, when fresh produce -- banana, mango, corn -- is tossed off
a truck.  “They do what they want all day long,” Ajax says of the
free-roaming macaques. Many of them trail us, peeking between
prickly pear cactus and mesquite trees, the latter stripped of
bark by the tenants.  Some of the macaques are descendants of snow monkeys
brought here in 1972 from  Japan , where they had begun to
encroach on Kyoto. “Those monkeys had to acclimate to coyotes
and bobcat here,” Ajax says, as well as the occasional
rattlesnake.  Others are kept in cages, as they are not assimilated into
the free-ranging groups. Their enclosures are much larger than
what the animals had been used to as pets or unwilling tools of
science.  Fangs for Caring  A caged baboon, a former lab subject, has a tattoo marking
on his face, but the sanctuary usually isn’t told what manner of
experiments an animal endured. The thickly bearded fellow
“yawns” to show me his canine fangs, lest I have thoughts
about challenging his status. I do not.  The sanctuary faces challenges on many fronts. “We’ve had
over a year and a half of drought, so it’s been very difficult
to keep things growing,” Ajax says.  The operating costs of the sanctuary now run about $430,000
a year, an amount that will increase with the new arrivals. Ajax
estimates that it will cost about $250,000 to build new
enclosures, plus outlays for neutering, tests for TB and
vaccinations for tetanus.  ‘Animals Need Help’  Funding is a concern. With an economy that has been both
sluggish and volatile in recent years, donors aren’t as generous
as they once were.  “The past few years have been challenging,” says Adam
Roberts, executive director of Born Free USA, the sanctuary’s
parent organization. “The more people hear how dire the
financial situation is globally, the more reticent they are to
open their wallets. But the cause remains the same: the animals
need help.”  Much of the misery could be avoided. A lot of the lab
research is unnecessary. The  National Institutes of Health 
recently announced strict limits on using chimpanzees for
research, for example. And none of the pet business is
justifiable.  “Most of the people working with animals in a sanctuary
environment tend to wish we would go out of business,” Ajax
says. “Not because we don’t like what we’re doing, but because
we wish there wasn’t a need.”  There is a need, and will be for some time. You can
“adopt” a primate with a donation via the Born Free Sanctuary
website.  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike  Di Paola  at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 