-- AIA Said to Seek Advice on Possible Bid for ING Asian Unit
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-01-17T12:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/aia-said-to-seek-advice-on-possible-bid-for-ing-asia-business.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  asked four investment
banks to advise it on a potential offer for  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Asian
business, a purchase that may be valued at more than $6 billion,
said people with knowledge of the matter.  Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have been invited to evaluate the impact of a
potential acquisition on AIA’s balance sheet and submit ideas on
how the insurer could finance the deal, two people said, asking
not to be identified because the information is private. AIA
hasn’t given any banks a mandate to negotiate or structure a
purchase, they said.  ING is under European Union orders to divest its entire
 insurance operations  before the end of 2013 as a condition for
approval of state aid. The firm last week scrapped plans to
create an Asian-European insurer in an initial public offering
and said it may sell the Asian business separately, given its
greater allure for buyers after European markets worsened.  “The Asian business and the opportunities in Asian markets
are much more attractive than in  Europe  at this point in time,”
Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen told reporters last week.
“We have strong indications of strong interest, otherwise we
wouldn’t have taken this step.” The firm isn’t “in detailed
talks” about a possible sale of the units to another company,
he added.  Shares Rise  ING  shares  surged as much as 6 percent in Amsterdam trading
today and were up 4.1 percent to 6.51 euros as of 12:55 p.m.,
giving it a market value of 25.1 billion euros ($32.1 billion).
That made it the biggest gainer in the 32-company  Stoxx
Insurance 600 Index , which rose 1 percent.  Spokesmen for Hong Kong-based AIA and ING, based in
Amsterdam, declined to comment. Reuters reported earlier today
that AIA is studying a bid for ING’s Asian business, citing
unidentified people.  ING’s Asian insurance operations may fetch about 5.2
billion euros in a trade sale, according to Rabobank
International analyst Cor Kluis. That will result in cash
proceeds of about 3.9 billion euros for ING after payment of
debt, the Utrecht-based analyst said in a note dated Jan. 12.  The sale process is at an early stage and ING may reach out
to global insurers, including  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ,  MetLife
Inc. (MET) , Ping An Insurance Group Co. and Samsung Life Insurance
Co., one person with knowledge of the matter said. None of the
companies have been approached yet, the person said.  New Business Expands  AIA,  Asia ’s third-largest insurer by market value, has
generated new business at half the rate of  China  Life Insurance
Co. despite having one of the largest pools of existing policies
among regional insurers, Credit Suisse analyst Arjan van Veen
wrote in a report last year.  AIA said in October the value of new business expanded 53
percent in the third quarter, led by higher sales in Malaysia
and China. The insurer, which is 33 percent owned by  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , was the target of a failed takeover
effort by Prudential Plc last year.  “ING’s Asian insurance portfolio is very well diversified
and we believe that international as well as Asian players will
bid for the unit,” Lemer Salah, an Amsterdam-based analyst at
SNS Securities, said in a note today. The firm “has a strong
franchise in  Japan  and  Korea  and some very interesting
operations in growing markets,” including Malaysia, China and
 India , he said.  ING said last week its “base case” for an IPO of the U.S.
insurance operations remained unchanged. The firm last month
completed the sale of most of its Latin American unit to
Colombia’s  Grupo de Inversiones Suramericana  for about 2.7
billion euros. That was about 1.8 times book value, based on
International Financial Reporting Standards, ING said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  