-- AIG’s Eastwood Adds Duties as Portalatin Departs
-- B y   A n d r e a   L u d t k e
-- 2012-01-17T20:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/aig-s-eastwood-hernandez-add-duties-as-portalatin-departs-for-mercer-post.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, increased duties for regional leaders
and reorganized its main unit into three geographic segments
after the departure of the executive overseeing growth markets.  Peter Eastwood will add  Latin America  to his job leading
the U.S. and Canada for the Chartis property-casualty division,
the company said today in a statement. Jose Hernandez will
assume responsibility for nations including China, Indonesia and
Vietnam and will still oversee Japan and Korea, AIG said.  AIG is dividing the assignments held by Julio Portalatin,
who will become chief executive officer of the Mercer human-
resources consulting unit at Marsh & McLennan Cos. New York-
based AIG has been working to improve the results of Chartis,
which  contributes more than half  of the company’s revenue.  Consolidating from four geographic areas “will create a
more efficient regional framework,” Chartis CEO  Peter Hancock 
said in the statement. The company will focus on emerging
markets by “aligning them under our top regional executives.”  Robert Schimek, who was Chartis’ chief financial officer
for six years, will head Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa.
Alexander Baugh, who led Europe, will become chief risk officer
for Chartis. Baugh replaces Samir Shah, who was assigned as head
of reinsurance for the division, said Mark Herr, an AIG
spokesman.  Chartis’s new CFO will be James Bracken, who was deputy to
Schimek. Bracken will report to AIG CFO David Herzog.  Pretax income at Chartis for the first nine months of 2011
fell about 72 percent from the prior-year period to $910 million
on costs from natural disasters including the Japan earthquake
and  Hurricane Irene .  AIG slipped 1.8 percent to $24.50 at 3:56 p.m. in  New York .
The company has dropped 46 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Ludtke in New York at 
 aludtke@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  