-- Airbus May Open Assembly Line in U.S.
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-01-17T16:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/airbus-may-open-final-assembly-line-in-u-s-to-lift-local-appeal.html
Airbus SAS, whose parent lost out
to  Boeing Co. (BA)  in a U.S. tender to supply refueling aircraft, may
add a final assembly line in the U.S. to buoy sales in the
world’s No. 1 market for single-aisle planes, an executive said.  The European planemaker, which has final assembly lines in
Toulouse,  France , and Hamburg,  Germany , as well as Tianjin,
China, may find that adding a similar operation in the U.S.
increases visibility with potential clients, Hans Peter Ring,
chief financial officer of Airbus parent European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co., said today in an interview.  While the Asia Pacific region is the most promising market
for future sales of large, wide-body planes, North America is
the single-biggest market for short- to medium-haul ones such as
 Airbus (EAD) ’s A320. With North American carriers needing to replace
thousands of aircraft in coming years, the European planemaker
could have a commercial advantage in showing customers that its
models are put together locally.  “The U.S. market is for the foreseeable future the biggest
single-aisle market in the world, so there is some logic to be
in the U.S.,” said Ring after EADS and Airbus officials gave
briefings in Hamburg on the business outlook for 2012. “It’s
certainly something that new management will need to look at.”  EADS Chief Executive Officer  Louis Gallois  is retiring in
May after the annual shareholder meeting and is expected to be
succeeded by  Tom Enders , now chief of Airbus. EADS shareholders
 Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  have held off on final decisions
about the shape of future management.  “I have to tell you there is no decision at all,” Ring
said. He declined to comment on the specifics of the management
succession or whether he expected to retain his position as CFO
of EADS.  U.S. Inroads  Airbus last year broke Boeing’s two-decade stranglehold on
supplying  AMR Corp (AAMRQ) .’s American Airlines, with an order for its
A320neo, a single-aisle plane offering more fuel-efficient
engines. It lost out in a contest with Boeing to supply  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and is currently competing against Boeing to win
an order from  UAL (UAL)  Corp.’s United Airlines. United is looking at
the purchase of as many as 200 jets.  North America  is “critical” for the sale of single-aisle
planes, Airbus CEO Enders said today. Airbus had hoped to use
the sale of refueling tankers as a beachhead to build a
commercial aircraft assembly line in Mobile, Alabama, though it
lost the tanker contract to Boeing.  “Just look at the global market forecast figures: more
than 80 percent of all deliveries forecast until 2020 in North
America are single aisles. And for the next 20 years, America in
terms of the number of aircraft delivered will still be ahead of
China,” said Enders.  Production Plans  EADS’s Gallois today told journalists that Eurocopter, the
parent company’s helicopter division, recently broke ground on a
new plant in  Mexico  and the CEO said that “other initiatives”
could follow. Such moves would not hurt jobs in  Europe , he said.  Airbus has been building production toward the rate of 42
single-aisle planes a month by the end of this year. The company
had aimed to make a decision on whether to push that to 44 a
month, though has held off, Enders said, as it studies whether
the supply chain can handle the extra burden.  “The supply chain ramp-up isn’t a walk in the park,”
Enders said today. “That’ll be a huge challenge to our people
in 2012 as well.”  Airbus has an extensive network of suppliers in the U.S.,
though that offers less visibility than a site piecing together
components and rolling planes out onto the runway, Ring said.
It’s not completely clear whether having an assembly line in the
U.S. would actually help win customers, as it clearly does in
 China . The difference in China is that the government is a
shareholder in the airlines, he said.  “The question is, and I think it has no answer, ‘Would you
sell more airplanes?’ Ring said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  