-- AirTran Ordered to Rehire Pilot Fired Over Safety Reporting
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2012-01-17T19:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/airtran-ordered-to-rehire-pilot-fired-for-safety-flaw-reporting.html
AirTran Airways (AAI) , a unit of  Southwest
Airlines Co. (LUV) , was ordered by the U.S. to rehire and pay more
than $1 million in back wages to a pilot fired in 2007 after he
reported mechanical flaws.  The airline violated whistle-blower protection laws when it
dismissed the pilot after a sudden increase in his reports
detailing mechanical failures, the  Occupational Safety and
Health Administration  said today in a statement.  The agency is also requiring  Orlando , Florida-based
AirTran, which was acquired by Southwest in May, to pay the
pilot, who wasn’t identified by the agency, back wages, plus
interest and compensatory damages, according to the statement.  An agency investigation found reasonable cause to believe
the termination was an act of retaliation by the airline in
violation of the law, OSHA said in the statement.  “Airline workers must be free to raise safety and security
concerns, and companies that diminish those rights through
intimidation and retaliation must be held accountable,” David Michaels, the head of OSHA, said in the e-mailed statement.  The pilot in a complaint said AirTran removed him from
flight status in August 2007 following a “sudden spike in the
pilot’s mechanical malfunctioning reports,” the agency said in
the statement. The airline held a 17-minute investigative
hearing on the increase in his reports. Seven days later, the
company fired him, saying he didn’t satisfactorily answer
questions about a jump in reports.  The safety agency, part of the Labor Department, found that
the pilot didn’t refuse to answer questions at the hearing,
answers to the questions were appropriate, and the airline’s
actions were retaliatory.  “We cannot comment on an ongoing regulatory
investigation,”  Whitney Eichinger , a Southwest spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  