-- EU’s Almunia Promises to Spur Competition as Veto Looms on DB-NYSE Merger
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-01-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/almunia-weighs-all-available-instruments-ahead-of-db-nyse-veto.html
Europe’s top antitrust regulator
pledged to use “all available instruments” to spur competition
in the region as he prepares to block the merger of  Deutsche
Boerse (DB1)  AG and  NYSE Euronext (NRX) .  “In this case as in others,” the European Commission
“will seek to ensure that European markets remain fair,
efficient and therefore competitive to the advantage of their
users,”  Joaquin Almunia  said in prepared remarks for a Brussels
speech yesterday.  National competition regulators from the 27-nation European
Union earlier yesterday backed Almunia’s plan to block the deal
on Feb. 1, according to a person familiar with the non-binding
vote. Companies can appeal a merger ban at the EU courts.  EU regulators told the two companies that they plan to
prohibit the deal to create the world’s largest exchange because
it would monopolize derivatives trading in the region, according
to two people familiar with the draft decision in December. NYSE
and  Deutsche Boerse  appealed directly to European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  last week to try and salvage their
merger, arguing an EU ban would harm European exchanges and
drive business to other parts of the world.  “It doesn’t look good for NYSE-Deutsche Boerse,”  Larry Tabb , founder of financial-market research and advisory firm
Tabb Group LLC, said in a telephone interview. “Still, the
competition regulators are looking at this in a very parochial
way and they talked to the banks. The banks don’t want anyone to
threaten their own position in the market -- they are somewhat
biased.”  Lenders And Brokers  Customers represented by the  Association for Financial
Markets in Europe , a group that represents lenders and brokers
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bank of America Corp.,
Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG, have told regulators that the
takeover will hurt competition.  “Exchanges are a crucial instrument for modern and
efficient capital markets,” Almunia said yesterday,
referring specifically to the NYSE-Deutsche Boerse deal.
“Trading and post-trading activities, for cash or derivatives,
are essential activities for our companies and investors to be
competitive at the EU and global levels. And for this reason,
competition between exchanges is needed.”  Robert Rendine, a spokesman for NYSE in  New York , said the
decision by national regulators to endorse vetoing the deal is
“is a process step and was expected.” He declined to comment
on Almunia’s remarks.  EU Commissioners  “Our focus remains on the EU Commissioners who have the
broader remits and the authority to make their own decision,”
Rendine said.  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Boerse, declined to comment.  European exchanges have sought to consolidate after new
rules in Mifid, or the Markets in Financial Instruments
Directive, boosted competition among exchanges and broker-
operated venues, driving down bourses’ market shares and
limiting costs for investors. Mifid is being updated by the
European Union after it was adopted in 2007.  “We introduced competition through regulation with Mifid,
and we succeeded,” Almunia said yesterday. “We need to go down
this route, in terms of fees, services and interoperability.”
This is what European commissioners “will have in mind to
decide in this particular case, and in all the other cases.”  Alternative Venues  Alternative venues have pushed for interoperability, which
offers traders a choice of who processes their transactions, for
more than two years. Four European clearinghouses now allow
access to the others’ systems. Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex Clearing
isn’t one of them.  NYSE and Deutsche Boerse’s deal is the last remaining after
a year in which populist outcry, antitrust concern and some of
the  most volatile markets  on record have prevented the
completion of more than $37 billion in announced transactions,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg on deals valued at $1
billion or more. Foundering mergers leave exchanges with the
same problems they started with, including lower trading margins
and diminishing prospects for sales and profit growth.  The companies’ proposed sale of NYSE’s Amsterdam options
exchange may be a risk to the functioning of  capital markets ,
Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said in a letter this
week. NYSE and Deutsche Boerse last year offered the divestment
in efforts to soothe EU concerns over deal.  Derivatives Exchange  Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex is the region’s biggest derivatives
exchange, while  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  owns Liffe, the second-biggest in
Europe. The Frankfurt-based company agreed to acquire its New
York rival in a deal valued at $9.5 billion when it was
announced in February.  The takeover would put more than 90 percent of the region’s
exchange-traded derivatives market and about 30 percent of
European  stock trading  in the hands of one organization.  Almunia is “very clear to say that it is in  Europe ’s
interests to have effective competition,” said  Simon Holmes , a
lawyer with SJ Berwin LLP in  London . “We know costs of trading
in Europe are higher” and markets “aren’t as competitive” as
in the U.S.  European antitrust regulators must avoid “political
interference” as they rule on the proposed merger, U.K.
Treasury Minister Mark Hoban will say in a speech at the London
Stock Exchange today, according to remarks released by his
office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 