-- Manhattan Landlord Brookfield Looks to Boost London Assets
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-01-17T16:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/manhattan-landlord-brookfield-looks-at-distressed-debt-to-expand-in-london.html
Brookfield Office Properties (BPO) , lower
 Manhattan ’s biggest office landlord, is seeking to buy
distressed debt as part of a plan to expand in London.  The New York-based company plans to own 371,000 to 464,500
square meters (4 million to 5 million square feet) of  office
space  in the U.K. capital within about five years, Martin Jepson, senior vice president for development and investment at
Brookfield, said at a media briefing. That would be as much as 8
times its current portfolio of about 55,750 square meters,
according to spokesman Ged Brumby.  More than 3.1 billion euros ($4 billion) of European
commercial mortgage backed securities mature this month, up from
179 million euros in December and the most since 2008,  Standard
& Poor’s  said in a Dec. 30 note. Borrowers will have to sell the
properties backing the loans at distressed prices if banks or
bondholders don’t agree to extend the repayment dates.  “We are watching it very closely, but we don’t know what
level of rollovers there will be,” Jepson said. “We are
looking to significantly expand the ownership side of the
business.”  The owner of Manhattan’s World Financial Center plans to
avoid prime assets in the  City of London  financial district, he
said. It will focus on buildings worth more than 50 million
pounds ($76.7 million) that are currently leased and can be
redeveloped in the medium term. The City is shrinking faster
than any financial center in the world, based on the number of
employees fired last year.  Bishopsgate Stake  Brookfield already owns a 50 percent stake in a planned
skyscraper at 100 Bishopsgate near Liverpool Street Station,
with the remainder held by London-based  Great Portland Estates
Plc. (GPOR)  Jepson said the building won’t be developed until an
occupier agrees to lease at least 18,580 square meters of the
87,800 square-meter building.  It also owns 20 Canada Square, an office building leased to
tenants including London-based energy company BP Plc.  He said he disagreed with predictions that City of London
rents would “spike” in 2011. “I saw the curve being flatter
over the next five years and an upside at the back end of the
decade.”  Brookfield will also look at buying bank and bond debt to
gain control of companies’ assets. The company looked at
acquiring debt on a  KanAm Grund KAG (KANGRUND)  portfolio of four  London 
office buildings valued at about 1 billion pounds that the
German real-estate fund is selling, but decided against it.  The U.S. company will also try to buy office buildings on
the fringes of the financial district that are about 25 years
old and convert them to homes, Jepson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman in Berlin at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  