-- Tankers Poised for Worst Year in Decade as U.S. Refineries Close: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-01-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/tankers-poised-for-worst-year-in-decade-as-u-s-refineries-close-freight.html
Suezmaxes, hauling about 1 million
barrels of oil, are poised for their worst year in more than a
decade as the biggest contraction in U.S. East Coast refining in
at least 20 years means less cargo on their largest trade route.  The ships, about 50 percent of the size of supertankers,
will earn $15,188 a day this year, 12 percent less than in 2011
and the lowest since at least 1997, according to the median of
10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Investors may profit
from that prediction by selling forward freight agreements,
traded by brokers and used to bet on future transport costs,
which are anticipating an average of $17,088, according to data
from London-based Marex Spectron Group Ltd., which handles the
contracts.  Rates are dropping for a second year as a capacity glut is
compounded by declining demand on the industry’s busiest route.
East Coast refineries, which rely on West African oil, are
closing at the fastest pace since at least 1992 because they
can’t compete with Midwest rivals using cheaper domestic crude,
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries show. The West Africa-to-
U.S. route accounts for about 14 percent of suezmax cargoes,
 Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s biggest shipbroker, estimates.  “For suezmaxes, the story is going to be the disappearance
of demand on the U.S. East Coast,” said  Olivier Jakob , the
managing director of Zug, Switzerland-based research company
Petromatrix GmbH, who has worked in oil for more than 17 years.
“West African production is more likely to find a home in  Asia 
and get shipped there on larger vessels designed for the
trade.”  American Tankers  Suezmax rates fell 42 percent last year to an average
$17,227, according to Clarkson. Sandefjord, Norway-based  Nordic
American Tankers Ltd. (NAT) , which operates 20 of the vessels, had a
$47 million net loss last year and will report a loss of $33.6
million for 2012, according to the average of four analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest U.S. oil company, and
Sunoco Inc. said last year they would sell three refineries in
 Pennsylvania , accounting for about 50 percent of capacity in the
Northeast. Two are already shut and the third may be closed if a
buyer can’t be found. West Africa supplied 77 percent of the
three plants’ crude imports, according to Energy Department
data.  West African supply is priced off Europe’s Brent crude,
which traded last year at an average premium of 17 percent to
West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark. The premium widened
from 0.9 percent in 2010 as U.S. production rose to an eight-
year high, Energy Department data show.  North American Consumption  The slump in cargoes to the U.S. is exacerbating a capacity
glut in shipping. The suezmax fleet will expand 11 percent this
year, London-based Clarkson estimates. That compares with a 1.4
percent gain in global oil demand predicted by the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency .  North American consumption will slide 0.6 percent. The
region accounted for 34 percent of suezmax cargoes in 2011,
according to Clarkson.  While West African oil exports will rise 6.5 percent to
4.43 million barrels a day this year, a higher proportion will
go to Asia on very large crude carriers, which carry about 2
million barrels, according to  David Wech , an analyst at JBC
Energy GmbH, a Vienna-based research company. In addition to
declining U.S. demand, European processors are resuming imports
from  Libya , where former leader  Muammar Qaddafi  was ousted in
October, he said.  Libyan cargoes typically move on smaller aframax vessels,
Jakob of Petromatrix said. Aframaxes accounted for 76 percent of
the 49 tankers booked to load crude in Libya since in September,
according to data from Poten & Partners, a New York-based
shipbroker.  Nuclear Program  Demand for suezmaxes may exceed analysts’ expectations
should tensions in the  Persian Gulf  worsen. Iran has threatened
to close the  Strait of Hormuz , the transit point for about 20
percent of the world’s oil, should Western nations embargo its
crude over the country’s nuclear program. Consumers would have
to buy supply from further away, tying up tankers for longer and
reducing available fleet capacity.  Frontline Ltd. (FRO) , whose fleet includes 16 suezmaxes, said  oil
companies  and traders are already seeking to ship more supply
from northern  Europe , the Caribbean and Libya in response to the
Iranian threats, according to an e-mail from Jens Martin Jensen,
the Singapore-based chief executive officer of the company’s
management unit, on Jan. 12. About 17 million barrels of oil
pass through the Strait of Hormuz each day.  Northbound Traffic  Suezmax rates in the single-voyage market rose 18 percent
to $34,367 this year, in part because of delays caused by bad
weather in  Turkey ’s Bosporus and Dardanelles straits, transit
points for crude moving from the  Black Sea region  to the
Mediterranean. Waiting times northbound through the lanes
averaged 10 days this month, from six in December, according to
GAC Shipping Turkey, a maritime agent.  Rates could also beat analyst forecasts should owners
respond to the slump in rates by scrapping or idling more
vessels or canceling orders for new ones, according to  New York- 
based Dahlman Rose & Co. An average 102 suezmaxes were anchored
last year, compared with 56 in 2008, ship-tracking data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Ship owners are also slowing vessels to use less fuel,
their biggest cost. The average suezmax sailed at about 9.1
knots in December, compared with 10.4 knots two years earlier,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Reduced speeds means journeys
take more time, effectively cutting the fleet’s capacity.  Owners will still face a glut. The suezmax fleet expanded
22 percent since the start of 2008, a year in which charter
costs averaged $73,863 a day, according to data from Redhill,
England-based IHS Fairplay and Clarkson. Outstanding orders at
yards are equal to 23 percent of existing capacity, IHS data
show.  Iron Ore  The glut extends to other merchant ships, which carry about
90 percent of world trade, according to the Round Table of
Shipping Associations. Rates for  VLCCs (TNNGSD)  averaged 73 percent less
last year while those for capesizes, carrying mostly iron ore
and coal, dropped 53 percent, according to data from the London-
based  Baltic Exchange , which publishes freight costs along more
than 50 maritime routes.  Shares of Nordic American Tankers plunged 54 percent last
year before rallying 23 percent this year in New York trading.
The company can withstand the slump because its ships need
$11,000 a day to break even, Chairman Herbjorn Hansson said in
an e-mailed response to questions. It trades in the single-
voyage market rather than on longer-term contracts at fixed
rates, which are typically less volatile, because that has been
a more profitable strategy in the past three decades, he said.  “The underlying fundamental problem for suezmaxes is too
many vessels and weak demand,” said Axel Styrman, an analyst at
Carnegie ASA in Oslo whose recommendations on the shares of
shipping companies returned 6.5 percent in the past three
months. “It’s no party in the tanker market for anyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  