-- Manufacturing in New York Fed Region Expands at Faster Pace Than Estimated
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-17T14:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/manufacturing-in-new-york-fed-region-expands-at-faster-pace-than-estimated.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
expanded in January at the fastest pace in nine months,
reflecting improving orders, sales and employment.  The  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  rose to 13.5, the highest level since April, from a
revised 8.2 in December. That gauge exceeded the  median  forecast
of 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, which projected an
increase to 11. Readings higher than zero signal expansion among
companies in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New
York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Factories may keep driving the economic expansion as they
maintain production to meet household and business demand. At
the same time, the financial crisis in  Europe  and a weaker euro
may slow purchases of American-made goods.  “It’s a reflection of improvement in demand,” said  Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities in New York.
“The pace of recovery has accelerated. We’re beginning to see
signs that the economy is starting to build on the strong
momentum that we saw at the end of last year.”  Stocks rose as  China’s economy  grew more the forecast and
German investor confidence jumped by the most on record. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1 percent to 1,301.77 at 9:45
a.m. in New York.  Survey Results  Estimates of economists surveyed ranged from 6.5 to 15. The
headline index is based on a separate question and does not
reflect changes in areas like orders and employment. For that
reason, some economists consider it a measure of sentiment.  With today’s report, the New York Fed issued its annual
revisions. The December figure was revised down from a
previously reported 9.5.  The Empire State gauge of shipments rose to 21.7 from 20.1.
New factory orders increased to 13.7 from 6 last month. A
measure of the number of employees climbed to 12.1 from 2.3. All
three indexes were at their highest levels since May.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district became
more optimistic about the future, the report showed. The gauge
of the outlook six months from now rose to a one-year high of
54.9 from 45.6.  “Manufacturing activity generally continued to expand,
although the pace of growth has slowed for selected subsectors
such as technology products,” the Federal Reserve said in its
Beige Book anecdotal business survey released Jan. 11.  Some companies are boosting spending at U.S. factories.  Business Investment  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
luxury autos, will invest about $900 million in its South
Carolina factory to expand capacity and prepare the facility to
produce a new sport-utility vehicle.  The spending, to be completed by 2014, will help increase
capacity at the plant in Spartanburg to 350,000 vehicles a year
from the 276,100 autos made there last year, the Munich-based
company said last week in a statement. BMW will make the new X4
SUV at the factory, adding to the X3, X5 and X6 models already
assembled there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  