-- Manufacturing Decline Extends Lackluster Emerging Market Growth
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-01-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/manufacturing-decline-extends-lackluster-emerging-market-growth.html
Emerging market economies, which
drove the rebound in global growth after the recession of 2009,
remained “lackluster” in the fourth quarter as manufacturing
fell the most in almost three years,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said.  HSBC’s EMI index, based on surveys in 16  emerging markets ,
was 52.2 in the three months through December, compared with 52
in the previous quarter, the bank said today in an e-mailed
statement. A reading of 50 indicates no change from the previous
quarter.  Factory output slid the most since the first quarter of
2009 as the European debt crisis dried up demand, the bank said.
Regional policy makers, whose efforts to fight inflation early
last year contributed to the slowdown seen in the latter half of
the year, now have room to cut  interest rates  to stimulate
growth, HSBC said.  Emerging markets “have retained some firepower to deal
with the fallout,”  Stephen King , the bank’s chief economist,
said in the statement. “Unlike the developed world, there’s
still plenty of room to cut interest rates and provide fiscal
stimulus.”  China , the world’s second-biggest economy, relaxed lenders’
reserve requirements in December for the first time since 2008
as inflation slowed to a 15-month low and exports gained the
least in two years. Data today will probably show the economy
expanded 8.7 percent in the fourth quarter, the least since
mid-2009, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  The central bank of  Brazil , the second-largest emerging
economy, has also begun easing monetary policy, cutting its
benchmark lending rate 50 basis points at each of its last three
meetings. Economists expect the bank’s board to cut the rate
another half point this week to 10.5 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  