-- Apple Files Design Suit Against Samsung Smartphones in Germany
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-01-18T03:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/apple-files-german-design-lawsuit-against-ten-samsung-smartphone-models.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  filed another suit in
 Germany , seeking to ban sales of  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co.’s
smartphones, including the Galaxy S Plus and the S II, extending
the global legal dispute between the two companies.  The action targeting 10 smartphone models was filed in the
Dusseldorf Regional Court and is based on Apple’s design rights,
court spokesman Peter Schuetz said by phone yesterday. Apple
also started a separate suit against five Samsung tablet
computers related to a September ruling banning the Galaxy
10.1., he said.  The latest cases add to the legal conflict Samsung and
Apple have been embroiled in over mobile technologies and
designs since the iPhone maker last year accused its South
Korean rival of copying products. Samsung, also a chip supplier
for Apple, edged out the U.S. company as the top smartphone
seller in the third quarter, helped by its Galaxy products.  Nam Ki Yung, a spokesman for Samsung in  Seoul , confirmed
the suits were filed and said the company has no immediate
comment to make on them.  Samsung shares fell as much as 1.4 percent and were 1.2
percent lower at 1,024,000 won as of 12:25 p.m. in Seoul
trading. The benchmark Kospi index was down 0.2 percent.  Galaxy Tab  The Dusseldorf court in September upheld a temporary sales
ban on the Galaxy Tab 10.1. Samsung subsequently changed the
frame and location of speakers for the product to sell it under
a new name, Galaxy Tab 10.1N.  Last month, the court said it is unlikely to grant an
injunction against the Tab 10.1N and an appeals court also
voiced doubts about the reach of Apple’s European Union design
right that won the company the injunction against the Galaxy
10.1. The new suits aren’t filed under emergency proceedings and
allow Apple a new procedure against both models.  After making headlines by initially winning the September
injunction, the Cupertino, California-based Apple has faced
setbacks in its battle against Samsung. In addition to the
German litigation, the maker of iPad tablets failed to convince
an Australian court on Dec. 9 to reinstate a ban in that
country. Both companies also filed patent suits against each
other in several European countries.  Samsung has failed to win a sales ban on the iPhone 4S in
Italy and  France .  The new German cases are LG Dusseldorf, 14c O 293/11 and
14c O 294/11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  