-- Areva Ex-Chief Lauvergeon Says She Was ‘Slandered, Spied Upon’
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-01-17T11:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/areva-ex-chief-lauvergeon-says-she-was-slandered-spied-upon-.html
Anne Lauvergeon defended her record
as chief executive officer of  Areva SA (AREVA)  and said the nuclear-fuel
manufacturer spied on her and didn’t pay what they owed her
after not renewing her contract seven months ago.  “I have been attacked, slandered and spied upon,”
Lauvergeon said yesterday at a Paris press conference. “I don’t
want a war; I want to turn the page. But I’ve had enough.”  Lauvergeon filed a criminal complaint in Paris against
unidentified persons in December after seeing a report by
private investigators of her and her husband’s movements and
communications. She filed a suit on Jan. 11 against Areva,
asking the Paris commercial court to order the state-controlled
company to honor a 1.06 million-euro ($1.35 million) departure
payment and 440,000 euros for a non-compete clause.  Lauvergeon was denied a third term weeks before her
contract expired in June, when the government replaced her with
Luc Oursel, Areva’s head of marketing. French authorities are
investigating Areva’s $2.5 billion purchase of Canadian uranium
mining company UraMin in 2007 after the Paris-based manufacturer
forecast an operating loss for 2011 in December because of asset
writedowns on mining projects and plant closures in response to
the nuclear accident in  Japan  last year.  Awaiting Auditors’ Report  Areva’s board “decided to suspend the payment as it hadn’t
yet received the report of three independent auditors” looking
into the UraMin deal, Patricia Marie, a spokeswoman for Areva,
said today. That report is expected by the end of February, she
said. Areva is cooperating with the investigation into the
spying claims, Marie said.  The French company, the world’s biggest supplier of nuclear
fuel and services, paid a “normal” price for  UraMin (AREVA) ,
Lauvergeon said yesterday. Areva had been searching since 2005
for a company to buy to secure access to uranium.  The acquisition was reviewed by law firms, auditors and the
government undertook “a very significant analysis” of the
decision as well, Lauvergeon said.  A hearing on Lauvergeon’s complaint regarding her pay is
scheduled for Feb. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  