-- Argentina Wins Appeal in BG Group Metrogas Bankruptcy Case
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-01-17T18:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/argentina-wins-appeal-of-185-million-award-to-bg-group-in-metrogas-case.html
Argentina  won a U.S. appeals court
decision throwing out a $185 million dollar award to  BG Group
Plc (BG/) , which claimed the country’s freeze on natural gas prices
caused the bankruptcy of a local gas distributor it controlled.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington , overturning a
lower court, ruled today that the arbitration panel that made
the award exceeded its authority in even taking the dispute. BG
Group should have sued first in Argentine courts and then waited
18 months for a result as required by a commercial treaty
governing the case, the court said.  “The arbitral panel rendered a decision wholly based on
outside legal sources and without regard to the contracting
parties’ agreement establishing a precondition to arbitration,”
the three-judge panel said in an opinion written by Judge Judith
Rogers.  Mark Todd, a spokesman for London-based BG Group, said the
company is reviewing the decision.  BG Group, the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas producer,
initiated arbitration in the U.S. in 2003 over the gas-price
freeze, which Argentina imposed following a sovereign debt
default in December 2001.  It won the damage award in 2007 when the arbitration panel
ruled Argentina had breached the treaty by enacting a law that
hurt BG Group’s investment in Argentina’s  Metrogas SA. (METR)   Investment Treaty  Under the Bilateral Investment Treaty between the U.K. and
Argentina, which went into effect in 1993, disputes between
contracting parties should be settled in the country where the
investment was made, the judges said. Unsettled disputes may be
submitted to international arbitration after 18 months from the
time the issue was presented to the competent tribunal.  BG Group argued that customary international law didn’t
require exhaustion of local remedies, according to the opinion.  Argentina sued BG in the U.S. seeking to vacate the
arbitration award.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  had upheld the damages
award Jan. 21, 2011.  The case is Republic of Argentina v. BG Group Plc, 08-
cv-00485, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 