-- Argentine Corn Farmers Prepare for Heatwave as Crops Shrivel
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-01-17T19:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/argentine-corn-farmers-prepare-for-heatwave-as-crops-shrivel.html
Corn farmers in  Argentina , the
world’s second-largest exporter of the grain, are forecast to
receive “very little” rain over coming days as a renewed heat
wave pushes temperatures toward 100 degrees Fahrenheit.  “The outlook isn’t encouraging,” Maximiliano Zavala, a
forecaster at the  Buenos Aires  Cereals Exchange, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “A heatwave is expected over the
next few days, with a peak on Saturday. Temperatures are
forecast to reach 38 or 39 degrees” Celsius (100 degrees
Fahrenheit) in  Santa Fe  and Buenos Aires provinces.  The La Nina weather pattern is harming corn crops in
Argentina and Brazil. As many as 11 million metric tons of the
grain may have been lost in the two countries because of the
drought, Sao Paulo-based forecaster Agroconsult said Jan 12.
 Mexico , the world’s fourth-largest producer, is also
experiencing its worst ever drought in parts of the country.  Argentine Agriculture Minister Norberto Yauhar today
declared a state of emergency in the provinces most affected by
the drought, Hugo Biolcati, president of the country’s biggest
farm group, told journalists in Buenos Aires. Biolcati took part
in Yauhar’s second emergency meeting in a week to discuss
measures to assist farmers most affected. The state of emergency
may give producers access to tax incentives and funds.  Corn for March delivery rose 1.2 percent to $6.0675 a
bushel at 1:05 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade, after
slumping 6.8 percent last week. Soybeans for March delivery rose
2.1 percent to $11.82 a bushel, the first gain since Jan. 9.  ‘Worse Shape’  Soybean and corn futures are also advancing on speculation
 China  will ease monetary policy after the economy expanded at
its slowest pace in 10 quarters, potentially boosting demand for
raw materials.  The U.S., Brazil and Argentina are the world’s first-,
second- and third-largest producers of soybeans, respectively.  “Corn is in much worse shape than soybeans,” Zavala said.
“There have been areas that have received a little rain, but it
evaporates with these temperatures.”  Argentina’s “severe” lack of rain over the last few weeks
will lower the corn crop yield to about 6 tons per hectare (2.5
acres) from the 6.9 tons initially expected, the Rosario Cereals
Exchange said in a Jan. 13 report.  Rain on Jan. 10-11 provided about 40 percent of the main
growing regions with precipitation levels of more than 40
millimeters (1.6 inches), the Rosario exchange said in a
separate report. The soybean crop needs 40 millimeters to 140
millimeters, the exchange said.  Mexico,  Brazil   A drought is also reducing the corn crop in Mexico, the
world’s fourth-largest corn producer. The country will probably
produce between 22 million and 23 million tons of the grain this
year, less than the 24.5 million tons previously forecast,
Agriculture Minister Francisco Mayorga said on Dec. 16.  Mexico, which is experiencing its worst drought on record
in the northern states, is not expecting any rain today in the
most affected states, according to a weather bulletin of the
National Meteorological Service. The nation’s interior ministry
said yesterday it was spending over 22 million pesos ($1.6
billion) to help communities experiencing scarcity of water.  Mexico’s agriculture ministry is transferring some corn
production from higher yield northern states to the country’s
southeast. Mexico has relocated 123,305 hectares of corn crops
to nine southern states, the ministry said yesterday.  Drought Until June  “Mexico’s drought may last until mid-June, when the rainy
season starts,” Jesus Carachure, a National Meteorological
Service officer, said today in a telephone interview. “Last
year we had very few rains and we’re not expecting any rainfall
for the northern states any time soon.”  No rain is forecast today in the main growing areas of
Brazil’s  Rio Grande  do Sul state, which produces about 14
percent of the country’s soybeans and 10 percent of its corn,
according to the Website of weather forecaster Somar
Meteorologia.  Rain in Rio de Grande do Sul since Jan. 13 increased soil
moisture by about 70 percent for corn and 80 percent for
soybeans, Dulphe Pinheiro Machado Neto, a manager at state crop-
forecasting agency Emater, said yesterday. Losses to corn are
irreversible, though rains are preventing further losses,
Machado Neto said.  Rio Grande do Sul’s government declared a state of
emergency in 291 of its 496 cities, an increase from 282 cities
yesterday, according to information on the state civil defense
department’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Price in Buenos Aires at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  