-- Market Shrinks First Time Since ‘09 on U.S. Buybacks, Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-01-17T22:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/market-shrinks-for-first-time-since-2009-as-u-s-buybacks-top-stock-sales.html
Stocks are  getting scarcer  in the
U.S. for the first time since the  bull market  began as companies
cut share sales to the lowest level since 2006 and buy back
equity at the fastest pace in four years.  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and 1,971 other U.S.
companies repurchased $397 billion of stock last year, while
they issued $169 billion of new equity, data compiled by Birinyi
Associates Inc. and Bloomberg show. The combination reduced the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  divisor, a measure of outstanding
shares, by 0.6 percent last quarter, the first drop since March
2009.  Shrinking supply supports prices and shows  valuations  are
so low that executives would rather buy back shares than spend
the cash to expand, according to Columbia Management Investment
Advisers LLC and USAA Investment Management Co. Bears say
dwindling growth prospects will limit gains and deter investors
who pulled money from stock funds for eight straight months
through December, the longest stretch in at least two decades.  “Having that equity base shrink and starting from a
relatively pessimistic point usually sets up pretty well in the
long term,” Laton Spahr, who helps oversee $325 billion as a
 money manager  at Columbia Management, said in a Jan. 11 phone
interview from  Minneapolis . “It gives you some hope that
valuations have perhaps bottomed.”  Relative Yields  The  S&P 500  trades for 13.6 times earnings, down from 15.2
a year ago and 19 percent less than the average level since
1960, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gauge declined 0.04
point  last year , the smallest annual change since 1947, after
surging 11 percent in the fourth quarter. The S&P 500 has gained
2.9 percent so far this year. The gauge advanced 0.4 percent to
1,293.67 today.  U.S. share sales fell 8 percent in 2011 as  interest rates 
near record lows spurred companies to issue bonds instead.
Corporate debt sales rose 3.2 percent to $800 billion, exceeding
stock offerings by the widest margin since 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Raising money through the  bond market  has gotten cheaper
compared with selling shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 3.8 percent interest rate on Bank of America
Corp.’s index of U.S. corporate debt compares with the 7.4
percent earnings yield on the S&P 500, the data show. Borrowing
costs have been 0.5 percentage point lower than earnings yields
on average during the past decade.  Facebook  “Companies want to shrink the number of shares,” James Swanson, who helps oversee more than $200 billion as chief
investment strategist at  MFS Investment Management , said in a
Jan. 11 interview in London. “It’s efficient balance-sheet
management with bond yields where they are and share prices
where they are.”  Corporate debt yields will probably stay low this year as
the  Federal Reserve  keeps its target interest rate for overnight
loans between banks near zero, according to Jan Loeys, the chief
market strategist at New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co.  While Menlo Park, California-based Facebook Inc., the
biggest social-networking site, is exploring a $10 billion share
sale, Bank of America and Deutsche Bank AG predict U.S. IPOs
this year will stay near 2011 levels.  Record buybacks, mergers and acquisitions fueled the stock
market’s  advance  from the end of 2004 through 2007. The S&P
500’s divisor, which changes as shares are added or removed from
index companies, fell almost 6 percent in the period as the S&P
500’s price rose 21 percent.  Slower Growth  The divisor increased about 5.3 percent from its 2009 low
to last year’s peak in July as the S&P 500 jumped 56 percent.
U.S. share sales in 2009 exceeded repurchases by about $80
billion, data compiled by Birinyi Associates and Bloomberg show.  The increase in buybacks last year suggests companies have
fewer opportunities to invest in projects that will generate
profit growth, said  Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based
global chief investment strategist at the iShares unit of
BlackRock Inc., which manages about $3.3 trillion.  The  International Monetary Fund  will probably cut its
forecast for global economic growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis
persists,  Christine Lagarde , the Washington-based fund’s
managing director, said this month. S&P 500 companies relied on
foreign sales for about 46 percent of total revenue in the past
year, according to  Howard Silverblatt , the senior index analyst
at S&P in  New York .  Teva Falls  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest
generic-drug maker, sank 1.4 percent in U.S. trading on Dec. 21
even after saying it plans to repurchase as much as $3 billion
of shares. The buyback announcement coincided with a warning
from Chief Executive Officer Shlomo Yanai that the Petach Tikva,
Israel-based company’s $31 billion sales target for 2015 is an
“aspirational goal.”  Buybacks aren’t a signal that stocks are undervalued, said
Andrew Lapthorne, the global head of quantitative strategy at
Societe Generale SA in London. S&P 500 companies spent more than
35 percent of their net  cash flow  on repurchases at the end of
2007, the highest level since at least 1995, just as the gauge
began a 57 percent retreat from its October 2007 peak, according
to data compiled by SocGen.  “I hate share buybacks,” Lapthorne said at a presentation
to investors and journalists in  London  on Jan. 11. “With a
passion.”  Biggest Buybacks  Equity valuations  are lower now than they were four years
ago. The S&P 500 Health Care Index trades for 12.7 times
profits, down from 17.4 at the end of 2007, while the price-
earnings ratio on the S&P 500 Information Technology Index has
dropped to 14.4 from 25, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The two groups announced the most buybacks among 10
industries in the U.S. last year, with plans to repurchase $180
billion of shares combined, according to Birinyi Associates.  Amgen bought 9.5 percent of its outstanding shares last
month for about $5 billion, the Thousand Oaks, California-based
company said in a Dec. 14 statement. The world’s largest
biotechnology company issued $6 billion of  debt  with an average
coupon of about 3.35 percent to help fund the buyback. The stock
has gained 16 percent since the plan was announced Nov. 7,
compared with a 2.2 percent increase in the S&P 500.  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest maker of personal
computers, spent $10.1 billion to repurchase shares in the
fiscal year ended Oct. 31, 2011, according to the company’s
annual report. The shares  trade  for 6.6 times profit, compared
with an average of 15.3 during the past decade, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Profits Climb  S&P 500 earnings may increase about 9 percent this year to
a  record $105  a share, according to more than 9,000 analysts’
projections compiled by Bloomberg. At least 48 companies in the
index are  scheduled to report  quarterly results this week. A
majority have topped analysts’ profit estimates for two straight
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Better-than-forecast U.S. economic data spurred the S&P
500’s rally from within 1 percentage point of a bear market on
Oct. 3, even as outflows from equity mutual funds tracked by the
Investment Company Institute totaled about $63 billion during
the final three months of the year.  Government reports showed payroll growth beat forecasts in
December and the  unemployment rate  dropped to the lowest level
in almost three years, while the Institute for Supply
Management’s measure of factory output grew at the fastest pace
in six months. The  U.S. Citigroup Economic Surprise Index (CESIUSD) , a
gauge of how much reports are exceeding economists’ estimates,
rose to a 10-month high on Jan. 6.  “Eventually confidence will return as growth stabilizes,”
Wasif Latif, vice president of equity investments at USAA
Investment Management in San Antonio, which oversees about $50
billion, said in a Jan. 12 phone interview. “All of a sudden
you’re going to notice that there won’t be enough shares
around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 