-- Martin Burger Is ‘Our Succession Plan,’ Developer Larry Silverstein Says
-- B y   T r i s h   R e g a n   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-01-17T21:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/martin-burger-is-our-succession-plan-developer-larry-silverstein-says.html
Martin Burger is in line to succeed
 Larry Silverstein , the World Trade Center developer, as the head
of his company, Silverstein said on Bloomberg Television.  “Clearly he’s our  succession plan , as we go forward,” the
developer said in an interview on “Street Smart,” which aired
today. “I don’t expect to change anything in my life. I’m going
to continue to do what I do as long as I can do it, and
hopefully that will be for a while.”  Burger, 46, who spent 15 years at Stephen Ross’s Related
Cos., where he oversaw the financing of New York’s Time Warner
Center, was named co-chief executive officer of Silverstein
Properties Inc. last month. He’s in charge of acquisitions and
business development in the U.S. and abroad, including an effort
to develop properties in  China , the company said on its website.  The firm hadn’t named a possible successor until Burger was
promoted. Silverstein, 80, will remain in charge of the building
of three skyscrapers at the trade center site in  lower
Manhattan , along with Janno Lieber, president of the company’s
World Trade Center Properties subsidiary, according to a
December statement.  Four World Trade Center, the 72-story tower Silverstein is
developing, may be completed before 1 World Trade Center, the
104-story skyscraper being built by the  Port Authority  of New
York and  New Jersey , the 16-acre (6.5-hectare) site’s landlord,
Silverstein said. Four World Trade will “probably” be ready
next year, with the Port Authority’s tower finished soon after,
he said.  The entire project, which includes two more towers that
still must be financed, should be complete by 2016, Silverstein
said. Bases for 2 and 3 World Trade Center are under
construction.  Silverstein said he expects to stay involved in the company
he founded more than five decades ago, in part to help his home
life.  “My wife of 55 years made clear to me that she married for
better or for worse, but not for lunch,” he said. “So
therefore, I’m going to continue to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  