-- AT&T’s Need for Spectrum Signals 77% Premium for Dish: Real M&A
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-01-17T21:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/at-t-s-need-for-spectrum-signals-dish-bid-at-decade-high-premium-real-m-a.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  is under so much pressure
to add wireless spectrum after its failed $39 billion bid for T-
Mobile USA that it may be compelled to pay the highest premium
in more than a decade to secure  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)   Facing opposition from U.S. regulators, Dallas-based AT&T
last month abandoned its deal for  T-Mobile USA  that would have
increased the largest U.S. telephone company’s 4G spectrum
capacity 62 percent, helping its higher-speed LTE network
compete with Verizon Wireless. Now, AT&T may consider a bid for
Dish after the second-largest U.S. satellite-television provider
acquired airwaves from the bankruptcies of DBSD North America
Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc. that could give AT&T two to
four more years of capacity, said Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  With the industry facing network constraints and a scarcity
of new spectrum that’s making Dish a target, President and Chief
Executive Officer Joe Clayton says the company is open to future
acquisitions. At $50 a share, cited as a reasonable price by
Alpine  Mutual Funds , AT&T would have to pay a 77 percent premium
for Dish, the highest in an acquisition greater than $5 billion
by a telecommunications company since 2000, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “AT&T wants to get more spectrum,”  Roger Entner , a Recon
Analytics analyst in Dedham, Massachusetts, said in a telephone
interview. “They are a year behind Verizon in the LTE race.
Dish would undoubtedly be a good combination and it would solve
a lot of AT&T’s problems.”  Today’s Trading  Brad Burns , a spokesman for AT&T, and Marc Lumpkin, a
spokesman for Dish, declined to comment on market speculation.  Shares of Dish climbed as much as 3 percent in  New York 
today and closed 1.2 percent higher at $29.10. AT&T rose 0.6
percent to $30.25.  Dish is open to a potential acquisition once it builds out
its wireless telephone and entertainment businesses, the
Englewood, Colorado-based company’s CEO Clayton said last week.  “We’re open to all possible options,” Clayton said in a
Jan. 11 interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg West,”
responding to a question on future merger possibilities. “We
could be acquired or we could be the acquirer.”  The wireless industry’s profit margins are being pressured
by slowing subscriber growth, equipment costs, smartphone
subsidies and the need to buy more airwaves to keep up with
consumers’ increasing use of mobile devices for video-watching
and Web-browsing. AT&T Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson , 51, said spectrum relief was the main reason for the
T-Mobile offer.  Future Deals  Industry consolidation is likely and, in addition to Dish,
targets include  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , Leap Wireless
International Inc. and Clearwire Corp., Philip Cusick, a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in New York, said in an interview.  MetroPCS and Leap, which attempted a merger in 2007 to gain
clout, could be near-term sources of spectrum for AT&T or T-
Mobile, according to Cusick. T-Mobile and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,
the No. 3 carrier after Verizon Wireless and AT&T, could also be
interested in combining with Dish, said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief
investment officer of Solaris Group in Bedford Hills, New York.
Sprint also was in talks with partners to acquire Clearwire,
people familiar with the matter said in August.  Scott Sloat , a Sprint spokesman, and Philipp Kornstaedt, a
T-Mobile spokesman, declined to comment.  ‘How Desperate’  Smaller carriers are targets because they have limited
financing to expand themselves and they own spectrum that would
help larger carriers’ network buildouts, said  Chris King , an
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus in Baltimore.  “It all boils down to how desperate Randall Stephenson is
for spectrum,” King said in a phone interview. “He only has a
few options. There’s  Leap (LEAP)  or MetroPCS, but those would face
regulatory challenges, or there’s Dish with less of a challenge
and clean spectrum.”  Facing opposition from U.S. regulators, AT&T ended its
nine-month bid for T-Mobile on Dec. 19. AT&T said it was
unwilling to continue an expensive fight against opponents who
said the deal would concentrate too much power in the hands of
AT&T and Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. mobile carrier.  As part of the agreement, AT&T was forced to pay a $3
billion breakup fee and set aside a portion of 4G wireless
spectrum to hand over to T-Mobile. While AT&T was struggling
with the T-Mobile combination, Verizon Wireless, jointly owned
by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , made $3.9
billion in deals last month to acquire unused spectrum from
Comcast Corp., Time Warner Cable Inc. and Cox Communications
Inc.  ‘Outfoxed Them’  “Verizon outfoxed them during the T-Mobile process,” Mike Brell, a San Antonio-based money manager with Frost Investment
Advisors LLC, said in a phone interview. “The balance of power
has shifted to Verizon in the past few months. AT&T has to look
at all the possibilities. They are at a competitive disadvantage
now.” Brell helps manage $8 billion, including AT&T shares.  The cable deals leave Verizon Wireless with 56 percent more
4G spectrum than AT&T in the top 10 markets and 46 percent more
in the top 100, according to John Hodulik, a UBS AG analyst in
New York. AT&T, whose 100.7 million wireless subscribers trail
 Verizon Wireless ’s 107.7 million, would have boosted its
spectrum by 62 percent with the T-Mobile deal, according to UBS.  JPMorgan used $50 per Dish share as an “example” price
when calculating how the takeover would impact AT&T in a Jan. 10
note, and estimated the deal would boost AT&T’s earnings even at
$80 a share.  ‘Top Dollar’  Using Dish’s 20-day trading average through last week, a
$50 price would represent the highest premium paid by a
telecommunications company in a deal greater than $5 billion
since Telefonica SA offered a 91 percent premium for Endemol
Entertainment Holding NV in 2000, Bloomberg data show.  “The question that comes down to AT&T is -- will AT&T pay
top dollar?”  Kevin Shacknofsky , who helps manage about $5
billion for Alpine Mutual in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “In terms of available spectrum, Dish has a very
attractive portfolio. $50 is not cheap but reasonable.”  At $50 a share, Dish’s equity would be valued at $22.3
billion, and AT&T would have to assume its $4.9 billion in  net
debt , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Dish’s spectrum will be worth about $9.4 billion if it wins
approval from the Federal Communications Commission to convert
airwaves gained in the DBSD and TerreStar deals into mobile-
phone spectrum, according to Hodulik. Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen  has said that the company is planning to start its own
wireless service. Dish has said it expects FCC approval in
March.  Better Options  The company paid a total of $2.8 billion for TerreStar and
DBSD, according to JPMorgan’s Cusick.  AT&T has better options to expand and gain spectrum than
buying Dish,  Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1.1 billion as chief
investment officer at Stewart Capital in Indiana, Pennsylvania,
said in a telephone interview. Dish’s attractiveness is reduced
by its satellite-TV service, which AT&T doesn’t need, he said.  “I don’t get the fit,” Polley said. “What does AT&T get
if they bought Dish? Some spectrum. Beyond that, what does it
bring to them? Not much. So you’re going to spend multiple
billions of dollars to acquire a company that doesn’t give a
whole lot other than some spectrum?”  He said an easier option for AT&T would be to acquire a
regional wireless carrier, such as MetroPCS or Leap, which would
directly bolster AT&T’s wireless unit. Short of a full takeover,
AT&T and Dish could also do a deal for spectrum alone, Solaris
Group’s Ghriskey said.  ‘A Prime Opportunity’  Still, AT&T could use Dish’s television service to expand
its own U-verse video product beyond its existing footprint,
Walt Piecyk, an analyst with BTIG LLC in New York, said in a
phone interview. AT&T could also sell or spin off Dish’s TV
business, said Ghriskey, who oversees $2 billion.  The demand for spectrum combined with the intensifying
competition in the wireless and TV industries mean this may be
an opportune timing for Dish to find a buyer, King of Stifel
Nicolaus said.  “Dish’s satellite-TV business isn’t going to be all that
viable forever, and the plan to build a new national wireless
network is somewhat delusional,” he said. “If Charlie Ergen
was ever interested in selling, this would be a prime
opportunity for it, and the value to AT&T certainly wouldn’t be
higher than it is right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  