-- AT&T Concerned U.S. Will ‘Radically’ Restrict Airwaves Bidding
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-01-17T20:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/at-t-concerned-u-s-will-radically-restrict-airwaves-bidding.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  said it was concerned that
U.S. regulators will “radically” restrict its ability to buy
the rights to airwaves to meet growing demand for smartphones
and tablet computers.  The second-largest U.S. mobile telephone company, which
dropped a bid last month to increase airwaves holdings by buying
rival T-Mobile USA Inc., has said the Federal Communications
Commission shouldn’t limit participants in auctions of unused
television airwaves.  “We are concerned that the FCC might actually design
auction rules that radically restrict AT&T’s ability to
participate in these auctions,” Robert Quinn, AT&T’s senior
vice president-federal regulatory in  Washington , said today in
an e-mailed statement.  Congress is considering legislation to authorize TV
airwaves auctions proposed by President Barack Obama’s
administration. The sales are supported by Dallas-based AT&T and
its larger rival,  Verizon Wireless  of Basking Ridge, New Jersey.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said last week that
proposals before Congress would prevent the agency from
exercising its traditional prerogative to set terms for auction
participation.  “It would not be wise to prejudge or micromanage FCC
auction design,” Genachowski, a Democrat, said in  a Jan. 11
speech  at the  Consumer Electronics Show  in Las Vegas.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
a telephone call and e-mail seeking comment today.  AT&T and Verizon were the biggest winners in a 2008 auction
of airwaves suitable for smartphone use, spending a combined $16
billion in an auction run by the FCC. The companies objected in
2010 after the FCC restricted their ability to lease airwaves
from a company that’s now  Philip Falcone ’s proposed LightSquared
Inc. wireless service.  AT&T abandoned its bid for fourth-largest U.S. wireless
carrier T-Mobile after the FCC moved to oppose the deal, and the
U.S. Justice Department sued to stop it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  