-- Tata Consultancy Net Income Beats Estimates as Orders, Rupee Lift Sales
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-01-17T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/tata-consultancy-net-income-beats-estimates-as-orders-rupee-lift-sales.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 Asia ’s largest software-services provider, reported profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as businesses sought savings through
outsourcing and the rupee’s decline boosted overseas earnings.  Net income  rose 23 percent to 28.9 billion rupees ($570
million) in the quarter ended Dec. 31 from 23.5 billion rupees a
year earlier, Mumbai-based Tata Consultancy said in a statement
yesterday. Analysts predicted 28.3 billion rupees, the median of
35  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran said yesterday
Tata Consultancy expects to win more orders as customers
increase spending on optimism the “worst” may be over. The
company, which won its second-biggest order from pension
provider Friends Life in November, may get more deals from the
U.S. where the economy is showing signs of “stability,”
according to Manoj Singla of Religare Capital Markets Ltd.  “That along with a stable U.K. should help the order
book,” said Singla, managing director and co-head of research
at Religare. “Together, they would cover a significant portion
of TCS’s  revenue (WPRO)  for the coming months.”  U.S. gross domestic product is projected to expand 2.3
percent this year from a 1.8 percent pace in 2011, according to
the median of 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from Jan.
6 to Jan. 11.  Revenue rose 37 percent to 132 billion rupees in the third
quarter from 96.6 billion rupees a year earlier. The median of
45 analysts’ estimates was 132.1 billion rupees.  Currency’s Decline  The Indian rupee depreciated 7.7 percent in the quarter
ended Dec. 31, the worst performance among major Asian
currencies. A weaker rupee boosts the value of overseas earnings
during repatriation.  Tata Consultancy dropped 0.5 percent to 1,103.95 rupees at
the close of trading in Mumbai yesterday, compared with a 1.7
percent advance in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  The earnings
were announced after the close of trading. Infosys,  India ’s
second-largest software exporter, gained 0.8 percent.  “Our clients are increasing their spending budgets which
gives us hope to be optimistic,” said Chandrasekaran. “We are
expecting to close deals and the pipeline is very strong.”  Tata Consultancy, which provides computer services and back
office support to clients including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Singapore
Airlines Ltd., added 40 customers during the quarter, ending
with a total of 1,003.  Volume Gains  The company, which  derived  53.3 percent of its revenue from
companies in  North America , 15 percent from the U.K., and 10.5
percent from continental Europe in the third quarter, had a 3.2
percent increase in volume in the three months ended Dec. 31
from the previous period.  Information-technology services companies define volume as
the number of man-months workers spend on projects for clients.  Volume at Infosys grew 3.1 percent over the quarter, Chief
Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal said Jan. 12.  Infosys shares fell the most in nine months on Jan. 12
after the Bangalore-based software-services provider cut its
full-year sales forecast in dollar terms for a second time
because of weaker economic growth in markets including  Europe .  Sales in the year ending March 31 will range from $7.029
billion to $7.033 billion, Infosys said last week, paring an
earlier projection.  ‘Pruning Business’  Software-service providers including Tata Consultancy may
have weaker volume growth starting from the fourth quarter,
Madhu Babu, an analyst at Sunidhi Consultancy Services Pvt.
said.  “Banks are pruning some of their business,” said Babu.
“So the immediate impact will be that volumes will get impacted
in the banking and financial services vertical.”  Worldwide spending on information technology services will
grow at a slower 3.1 percent pace after climbing 6.9 percent in
2011 to an estimated $874 billion, researcher Gartner Inc. said
on Jan. 5.  Tata Consultancy added a net 11,981 employees during the
quarter, for a total of 226,751, according to the statement.  Workers left Tata Consultancy at a rate of 12.8 percent in
the quarter ended Dec. 31, down from 14.4 percent for the same
period last year. Infosys reported  employee attrition  of 15.4
percent for the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in  Mumbai  at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  