-- Australian REITs to Offer Returns of Up to 15% on Asset Sale, Merrill Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-01-17T02:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/australian-reits-to-offer-returns-of-up-to-15-on-asset-sale-merrill-says.html
Australian property trusts  will
offer total returns of between 12 percent and 15 percent in 2012,
outperforming Australian equities and other Asia-Pacific
property markets, according to Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit.  Sales of properties and subsequent return of capital to
investors, falling debt costs and divestments of “non-core”
businesses will contribute to returns, analysts led by Simon Garing said in a report dated Jan. 13 and distributed today. The
trusts will offer average dividend per share yield of 6.3
percent, 288 basis points above 10-year bonds, they said.  “While volatility will remain a feature of the entire
market, we also think the Australian REITs will continue to
offer lower volatility than the broader market,” the analysts
wrote. “Australian REITs will continue to be disciplined in the
face of external pressure.”  Most property groups have sold off overseas assets and
simplified their businesses after a foray into offshore markets
before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. led to
billions in losses as refinancing costs surged and asset values
slumped. Their attempts to repair their balance sheets since
then have returned most of them to profit.  Mirvac Group (MGR) ,  Westfield Group (WDC) ,  Dexus Property Group (DXS) ,
 Charter Hall Group (CHC)  and  Centro Retail Australia (CRF)  will be the best
performers next year, driven by their potential for growth and
plans to restructure or sell off assets, Garing said.  Westfield Retail Trust (WRT) , which Garing downgraded to
 “neutral”  from “buy,” is expected to see constrained growth,
as retailers’ struggles and its low return on equity keep a lid
on price gains, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  