-- Austerity ’Wrong’ Way to Fight EU Crisis: Stiglitz
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   J o h n   D a w s o n
-- 2012-01-17T07:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/austerity-wrong-way-to-fight-eu-crisis-stiglitz.html
The European push for fiscal
austerity isn’t the way to fight the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis and may hurt confidence, Nobel Prize-winning economist
 Joseph Stiglitz  said.  “Austerity as the solution is just wrong,” Stiglitz, a
Columbia University economics professor, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Hong Kong today. “There won’t be a
return to confidence -- quite the contrary. So the direction
Europe is going is unfortunately I think the wrong direction.”  European leaders have said they may complete a new rulebook
for fiscal discipline by Jan. 30 as they try to contain a crisis
that’s already forced  Greece , Ireland and Portugal into bailouts.
 Standard & Poor’s  stripped the European Financial Stability
Facility, the region’s rescue fund, of its top credit rating
yesterday after earlier downgrading France and Austria.  There could be a “very serious” downturn in  Europe , which
needs to bolster growth, Stiglitz said. The region’s leaders
“don’t seem to get what needs to be done,” he said.  On  China , Stiglitz said an easing in its economic expansion
to 7 percent to 8 percent is in some sense probably a “good
thing.” He later told reporters at a Hong Kong briefing growth
in the world’s second-largest economy is now more “sustainable.”  China Expansion Slows  China’s  gross domestic product  climbed 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, its statistics bureau said
earlier today. The expansion is the slowest in 10 quarters and
may sustain pressure on Premier Wen Jiabao to tilt policies
toward sustaining growth.  Asian shares rose today, partly on increased expectations
for further monetary policy easing in China. The  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index (MXAP)  rallied 1.8 percent as of 4:09 p.m. in  Tokyo .  There is a case for slower appreciation in the nation’s
currency, the yuan, Stiglitz said in the television interview.
The currency should be included in the International Monetary
Fund’s Special Drawing Rights, he said in the press briefing.  The SDR is an international reserve asset created by the
IMF in 1969. It can be exchanged for freely usable currencies.  Asia  is doing “very well” and can manage the current
downturn, Stiglitz said in the interview. He told the briefing
that the region can take steps to counter global risks, citing
the decision last month by the People’s Bank of China to allow
banks to set aside less of their deposits as reserves.  Stiglitz also told the briefing that he has “concerns”
about an extended period of “low”  interest rates  in the U.S.,
which he said may not necessarily lead to more job creation.  Europe faces a “hard” year and that will have an impact on
the U.S., he said in the interview. Stiglitz is attending a
conference in  Hong Kong .  The IMF aims to expand its lending capacity to counter the
impact of the European crisis, its First Deputy Managing
Director David Lipton said at the forum yesterday. The fund will
cut its 2012 global growth estimate next week, he also said.  S&P lowered the credit ratings of nine members of the 17-
nation euro area on Jan. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  