-- Facebook, Zynga Luring Employees to Hog Bandwidth at Work Hours
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-01-17T17:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/bandwidth-hogging-on-corporate-networks-grows-as-workers-post-to-facebook.html
Social-network users are hogging
more computer-network bandwidth -- from the cubicle next door.  A growing proportion of the capacity on corporate networks
is being taken up by employees actively using social networking
applications and file-sharing services, according to Palo Alto
Networks Inc., a computer-security company that tracked network
usage at more than 1,600 customers between April and November of
last year.  Active usage -- referring to people who play, post and
share, rather than just passively watching a scrolling feed of
posts on Facebook Inc.’s site, for example -- took up 28 percent
of total network bandwidth used on social sites. That’s an
increase from 9 percent in the preceding six months. Facebook
applications took up 13 percent of social bandwidth, about
triple the previous period.  While active usage has increased, the percentage of total
network bandwidth that social and file-swapping sites take up
has been steady at about 1 percent,  Santa Clara , California-
based Palo Alto Networks said.  Some active social networking is sanctioned by employers.
More companies are creating corporate Facebook applications and
asking workers to attract customers and respond to queries on
such sites as Facebook and the microblogging site Twitter Inc.,
said Matt Keil, senior threat analyst at Palo Alto Networks.  Other traffic comes from tasks that are less likely to be
work-related. More than 50 percent of the companies measured had
employees playing  Zynga Inc (ZNGA) . games on Facebook, taking up about
5 percent of social-networking bandwidth.  Film File-Sharing  Of those in the survey, 57 percent have workers who are
spending some time trading film clips and games on a site called
Megaupload. Half have employees using FilesTube, a site that
features some movies “which appear to be only in theaters at
the current time,” according to the Palo Alto report.  The problem for companies is more serious than employees
using work time to watch pirated hi-definition movies, Keil
said. Most of those file-sharing services sail straight through
a company’s firewall, making them useful to hackers.  Palo Alto Networks tracks this because it sells advanced
firewall appliances that let customers specify which
applications and behaviors to scan for viruses and Trojans or
block altogether. For example, the devices can be set to let
marketing departments post on Facebook while all other users can
merely view posts, Keil said. As part of that, the software
security firm measures what applications reside on customers’
networks.  In total, Palo Alto Networks found 71 different kinds of
social networking apps and 65 flavors of browser-based file
sharing.  “One of the most common responses we get is, ‘Wow, I knew
it was bad but I didn’t realize it was this bad,” Keil said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  