-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-01-17T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying
the  Bank of Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight
rate target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in
Ottawa.  The Bank of Canada today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  The outlook for the global economy has deteriorated and
uncertainty has increased since the Bank released its October
Monetary Policy Report (MPR).  The sovereign debt crisis in
Europe has intensified, conditions in international financial
markets have tightened and  risk aversion  has risen. The recession
in Europe is now expected to be deeper and longer than the Bank
had anticipated in October.  The Bank continues to assume that
European authorities will implement sufficient measures to
contain the crisis, although this assumption is clearly subject
to downside risks. In the  United States , while the rebound in
real GDP during the second half of 2011 was stronger than
anticipated, the Bank expects the U.S. recovery will proceed at a
more modest pace going forward, owing to ongoing household
deleveraging, fiscal consolidation and the spillovers from
 Europe . Chinese growth is decelerating as expected towards a more
sustainable pace. Commodity prices-with the exception of oil-are
expected to be below the levels anticipated in the October MPR
through 2013.  The Bank’s overall outlook for the Canadian economy is
little changed from the October MPR.  While the economy had more
momentum than anticipated in the second half of 2011, the pace of
growth going forward is expected to be more modest than
previously envisaged, largely due to the external environment.
Prolonged uncertainty about the global economic and financial
environment is likely to dampen the rate of growth of business
investment, albeit to a still-solid pace.  Net exports are
expected to contribute little to growth, reflecting moderate
foreign demand and ongoing competitiveness challenges, including
the persistent strength of the Canadian dollar.  In contrast,
very favourable financing conditions are expected to buttress
 consumer spending  and housing activity. Household expenditures
are expected to remain high relative to GDP and the ratio of
 household debt  to income is projected to rise further.  The Bank estimates that the economy grew by 2.4 per cent in
2011 and projects that it will grow by 2.0 per cent in 2012 and
2.8 per cent in 2013.  While the economy appears to be operating
with less slack than previously assumed, given the more modest
growth profile, the economy is only anticipated to return to full
capacity by the third quarter of 2013, one quarter earlier than
was expected in October.  The dynamics for inflation are similar to those anticipated
in the October MPR, although the profile for inflation is
marginally firmer.  Both total and core inflation are expected to
moderate in 2012 and subsequently rise, reaching 2 per cent by
the third quarter of 2013 as excess supply is slowly absorbed,
labour compensation grows modestly and inflation expectations
remain well-anchored.  Several significant upside and downside risks are present in
the inflation outlook for  Canada . Overall, the Bank judges that
these risks are roughly balanced over the projection horizon.  Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. With
the target interest rate near historic lows and the financial
system functioning well, there is considerable monetary policy
stimulus in Canada. The Bank will continue to monitor carefully
economic and financial developments in the Canadian and global
economies, together with the evolution of risks, and set monetary
policy consistent with achieving the 2 per cent inflation target
over the medium term.  Information note: A full update of the Bank’s outlook for
the economy and inflation, including risks to the projection,
will be published in the MPR on 18 January 2012. The next
scheduled date for announcing the overnight rate target is 8
March 20  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  