-- Better Federal Government Starts With States: Edward Glaeser
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-01-17T00:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/better-federal-government-starts-with-states-commentary-by-edward-glaeser.html
The 2012 election will treat
Americans to a fractious debate about the federal government’s
role in strengthening the nation.  With any luck, we will quickly move past tired exchanges in
which one side implausibly argues that lower  federal taxes  can
solve everything and the other side unconvincingly asserts that
Washington is the answer.  America needs candidates who will fight for better
government, not just more or less of it. And better government
requires rethinking the relationship between the federal
government and the states.  Many central governments, from Paris to  Tokyo , are colossi
that dominate the public sector and the larger economy. In such
places, a new national leader can directly determine the path of
public services. But in the U.S., lower levels of government
wield control of the schools that teach our children, the roads
on which we travel and the regulations that can excessively
limit entrepreneurship and housing supply.  If you believe that infrastructure, regulation and schools
matter for economic success, then you should start thinking
about the thorny ties between  Washington  and the states.  Separate States  The U.S. began, not as a unified nation, but as a motley
collection of separate states. Those entities ceded authority to
a central government that could coordinate foreign policy,
eliminate internal trade barriers and sort out the American
Revolution’s financial hangover. Nonetheless, we never really
centralized. Even after the Civil War, at the start of the 20th
century, cities and towns collectively spent more on water
provision alone than the  federal government  spent on everything
except for the post office and the Army.  Over the past 75 years, the federal government has grown
large, due to recessions and the rise of social welfare
programs, such as Social Security and  Medicare (USBOMDCR) . For good and
ill, the federal government isn’t bound by the balanced-budget
rules that tie states, and it plays the role of spender of last
resort during a downturn.  Free migration across the country means imposing additional
state taxes on companies and the wealthy to fund state-specific
welfare programs. This leads to an  influx  of the poor and an
exodus of the rich. Social safety nets can’t be just local.  If the candidates want to improve our national government,
they should start discussing ways to streamline our approach to
poverty, though those programs will have to stay national. We
should rethink the bizarre way we approach poverty with four
large, completely separate programs (Temporary Aid to Needy
Families, Section 8 housing vouchers,  food stamps  and Medicaid)
administered by three departments (Health and Human Services,
Housing and  Urban Development , and Agriculture).  If the Republican front-runner, former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney, were still a consultant at Bain & Co., he
would surely want an efficiency-enhancing consolidation that
leaves a single program to determine both aid eligibility and
the right mix of cash and in-kind transfers. Such consolidation
could also make it easier to evaluate program results.  Once we’ve resolved the question of redistribution, we also
need to reconsider the policy areas that contribute to the
nation’s long-run economic competitiveness. That road leads from
Washington to state capitals. President  Barack Obama ’s election
was accompanied by unrealistic expectations that could barely
have been achieved with the despotic powers of an early Ottoman
Sultan, never mind the limited authority of a U.S. president.  Local governments do much of what matters in our country
and our frequently dysfunctional Congress often makes me wish
that states did even more.  Education Help  Yet while long-term investments in America’s future are
often made by states and localities, the federal government
should help fund education and create incentives to improve
local performance in transportation infrastructure.  Education has evolved from an overwhelmingly local affair
to having more federal involvement. That’s a good thing. Schools
can get “captured” by local interest groups, including
teachers’ unions, and federal intervention can help put students
first.  People leave their childhood homes, bringing their
education with them across state lines, and that creates another
rationale for  federal funding . Good schools are the best way of
turning poor children into prosperous adults, which means that
the federal government’s social safety net mission also puts it
into the classroom.  Perhaps most importantly, the federal government has a role
because the strength of our nation ultimately depends on its
human capital.  There is much to like about both No Child Left Behind and
Race to the Top, but the 2012 candidates need to champion the
next generation of education programs, which should combine
generous federal funding with tough local accountability.  The federal government should continue to use its financial
support as a lever to ensure that states don’t block the  charter
schools  that create competition and have dramatic effects on
 test scores . Longer class hours seem to be the secret of the
success of many of these schools, so the federal government
could fund more after-school learning programs, as long as
private suppliers could compete for funding that was then based
on tangible test-score results.  Washington’s large role in transportation is less
defensible. The best case for federal infrastructure spending is
that consumers everywhere benefit from the ability of trucks to
use a nationwide highway system. There is no reason those trucks
can’t pay for their own roads.  Local Roads  It is particularly hard to defend the notion that federal
tax dollars need to go for projects, such as local roads or
transit systems, that serve overwhelmingly in-state
constituencies.  The U.S. needs new infrastructure, but the federal
government shouldn’t pay for it. Why should those who fly, who
are typically prosperous, expect taxpayers to pay for the
infrastructure that they use? In an era of limited energy, why
should the government ever subsidize anyone to drive or travel?  The federal government should be the steward, not the
patron, of transportation infrastructure. The financial
engagement from Washington should be just large enough to prod
states into revitalizing their transportation networks, but the
funding for those programs should come directly from their
users.  The states can provide better schooling and infrastructure,
but those efforts can be strengthened by oversight from the
federal government. Too many states have a tendency to rack up
huge  pension liabilities  that are masked by unrealistic
expectations about the future returns of those funds’
investments.  The  Nunes-Issa-Ryan Public Employee Pension Transparency
Act  offered a clever solution to this problem by requiring local
governments to properly report their pension obligations or risk
losing federal tax deductibility for their debt. A similar
approach can also be used to push states to limit the
regulations that prevent new business formation and new housing
construction.  I, too, dream of a renewed America, but that renewal won’t
come from Washington. It depends, above all, on the innovation
and entrepreneurship of ordinary Americans. The most important
public functions, outside of social-welfare programs and the
military, depend not on the federal government but on lower
levels of government.  If the presidential candidates want to find America’s
missing mojo, they need to think harder about how a limited pool
of federal resources can get better behavior out of the states.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 