-- BHP Billiton’s Iron Ore Output Rises to Record on Pilbara Mine Expansions
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-01-18T05:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/bhp-billiton-s-iron-ore-output-rises-to-record-on-pilbara-mine-expansions.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, said second-quarter  iron ore  production
rose a better-than-estimated 22 percent to a record, driven by
mine, rail and port expansions in Western Australia.  Output from the company’s biggest earning unit was 41.1
million metric tons in the three months ended Dec. 31, compared
with 33.7 million tons a year earlier, Melbourne-based BHP said
today in a statement. That compares with RBC Capital Market’s
forecast for 35.7 million tons and UBS AG’s 38.9 million tons.  BHP, which today raised its Australian full-year iron ore
output guidance, and Rio Tinto Group are forging ahead with
expansions of their mines to supply  steel mills  in  China , the
world’s biggest buyers. Metals in  London  rose to the highest in
almost three months amid speculation that China may ease
monetary policy, boosting prospects for raw-materials.  “BHP’s iron ore numbers were pretty good against
expectations,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at IG
Markets in  Melbourne . “China is showing more scope for monetary
easing and China will engineer a soft landing for its economy
that will benefit the materials stocks such as BHP.”  BHP rose 0.8 percent to close at A$37 in Sydney trading,
its highest close since Dec. 7.  The shares have gained 7.5
percent this year.  Demand Prospects  China’s economy  expanded at the slowest pace in more than
two years, government data yesterday showed, signaling the
government may ease lending curbs and increase spending,
bolstering demand prospects. A projected steel output rebound in
China will be positive for iron ore and coal, Credit Suisse
Group AG said in a report this month.  While scheduled maintenance and the wet season in the
Pilbara region are expected to affect production of iron ore in
 Western Australia  this half, “full-year production is now
forecast to marginally exceed prior guidance of 159 million
tons,” the company said in the statement.  Petroleum, the company’s second-biggest earner in fiscal
2011, climbed 56 percent following the acquisition of almost $17
billion of shale gas assets in the U.S. Spending on petroleum
exploration will rise to $1.4 billion this fiscal year, the
company said in a separate statement. That’s more than double
the $557 million the company spent in fiscal 2011.  BHP’s review of its diamond business could extend through
to the first half of 2012, the company said. In November, BHP
set an expected deadline of this month for the review when it
announced it may sell some or all of the business. The company’s
diamond output fell 29 percent in the quarter, it said today.  Copper, Coal  Copper output fell 7 percent, nickel 11 percent and zinc 23
percent, the company said. Coking coal output in  Australia  rose
9 percent, while energy coal rose 2 percent.  BHP has 17 “buy” and 4 “hold” recommendations,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company may post
full-year  net income  of $20.7 billion in fiscal 2012, according
to the median of 20 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse analyst Paul McTaggart this month rated BHP
stock “outperform,” saying it has “the greatest earnings
diversification and highest margins of the large cap miners and
the most secure earnings and cashflow stream should commodity
prices weaken.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  