-- BHP Said in Talks for Gabon Iron Ore Deposit Held by China
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   A n t o i n e   L a w s o n
-- 2012-01-18T10:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/bhp-said-in-talks-for-gabon-iron-ore-deposit-now-held-by-china.html
Gabon  is considering taking away
 China Machinery Engineering Corp (CMECEZ) .’s rights to the nation’s
biggest iron ore deposit and is in talks with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BLT) 
on the asset, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Officials from the West African country will meet BHP
executives in  Cape Town  at a conference next month for further
discussions, one of the people said. BHP, which is developing a
manganese mine in Gabon, has offered to deploy more than 10
exploration drilling rigs at the Belinga site, the people said,
asking not to be identified as the negotiations are private.  Gabon started a review of  Belinga , which China Machinery
has estimated would cost $3.5 billion and produce 30 million
metric tons a year, in 2010 after a consultant to the government
said progress developing the mine had been slow. For BHP,
gaining an  iron ore  asset in West Africa would mark a move
toward diversifying its production base for the raw material
away from the Pilbara region of  Western Australia .  The world’s largest mining company today reported second-
quarter production of iron ore rose 22 percent to a record. The
stock climbed 0.2 percent to 2,124 pence at 10:10 a.m. in London
trading. It earlier gained 0.8 percent in Sydney.  The Melbourne-based company declined to comment. Zhang
Qingchun, a spokeswoman for China Machinery, said she had no
information regarding the project. Gabon Mines and Oil Minister
Alexandre Barro Chambrier declined to discuss Belinga when
contacted by Bloomberg News in the capital, Libreville.  ‘Accelerated Discussions’  Barro Chambrier said Jan. 14 on Radio Television Gabonaise
there were “accelerated discussions” on the exploitation of
Belinga, in the northeast of the country. He declined to name
the parties the government was in talks with.  China  Machinery said in 2009 that it had signed a 25-year
contract to build and operate the mine, near Gabon’s border with
the Republic of Congo. As part of the agreement, the Beijing-
based company said it would build a 500-kilometer (310-mile)
railway, a port and a hydropower station. China Machinery signed
an initial accord on Belinga in September 2006, according to its
website.  Development has previously been opposed by
environmentalists because Belinga lies within Gabon’s Ivindo
National Park, a rainforest that is home to elephants, western
lowland gorillas and chimpanzees.  Gabriel Kamga, the general manager of BHP Billiton Gabon,
discussed Belinga with Barro Chambrier in Libreville in
December, one of the people said.  Iron ore contributed more than a third of BHP’s $37.1
billion in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization for the 2011 fiscal year.  The benchmark price for Australian iron ore delivered to
China will peak this year in the fourth quarter, averaging an
estimated $172 a metric ton, Deutsche Bank AG analysts Rob Clifford, Grant Sporre and Gaetan De Buyer wrote in a Jan. 9
report. The so-called spot price was little changed at $140.20 a
ton yesterday, according to The Steel Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Antoine Lawson in Libreville at 
 ankolo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  