-- Bloomberg Vault Adds Cloud Archiving for IBM Message Software
-- B y
-- 2012-01-17T14:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/bloomberg-vault-adds-cloud-archiving-for-ibm-message-software.html
                                
Press Release  New service lowers compliance costs for financial services firms  New York and Orlando, FL -- Bloomberg announced today that
financial services firms using IBM’s messaging and collaboration
software can reduce costs and streamline e-mail archiving and
compliance by using  Bloomberg Vault .  Bloomberg Vault simplifies cloud-based message archiving by
taking advantage of native features unique to the IBM Lotus
Domino server in order to improve security and reliability,
while lowering cloud integration costs. A demo of Bloomberg
Vault is available at booth #815 Tuesday and Wednesday at  IBM’s
Lotusphere  conference in  Orlando , FL.  Financial institutions are moving to hosted e-mail compliance
and archiving services to deal with rising costs, risks and
industry regulations, an  April 2010 study by Forrester
Consulting , commissioned by Bloomberg Vault, has found. Today,
more than 390 financial service companies have adopted Bloomberg
Vault to manage growing legal and regulatory mandates governing
corporate data.  “Growing compliance requirements and an increase in digital
communications is driving up the cost of compliance, archiving,
and eDiscovery processes, especially for financial services
firms,” said Harald Collet, Global Business Manager for
Bloomberg Vault. “We designed Bloomberg Vault to integrate with
IBM Lotus Domino in a secure cloud environment, so we can start
to reduce unnecessary IT costs by making the message management,
archiving, and compliance process much more efficient.”  Michael Waxenberg, the chief technology officer at WestLB AG,
the German commercial bank, commented, “We are pleased that
Bloomberg Vault supports a fully native integration with IBM
Lotus Domino that can assist regulatory and e-discovery
processes.”  The Bloomberg Vault solution for IBM Lotus Domino provides:  -Superior security for IBM Lotus Notes communications through
support for transport-level encryption and IBM Safe ID
Technology,
-Automated replication, transport and reconciliation of archived
message data in IBM’s NSF data format and configured via native
Lotus Domino journaling features,
-Message file export capabilities and specialized export
template for Lotus Notes communications, Internet e-mail,
Bloomberg messages and instant messaging.  “The market for cloud-based archiving services is estimated to
reach over $1B in spending in 2012, and is expected to grow at a
24.8 percent compounded growth rate from 2010 to 2015,” said
Laura DuBois, Program Vice President at IDC.  “Companies tell us
they are under a tremendous pressure to reduce the cost of
compliance, and Bloomberg Vault’s Lotus Notes support offers
companies an uncomplicated solution that also helps to reduce IT
costs.”  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg LP, a leader in global business and financial
information and news, gives influential decision makers a
critical edge by connecting them to a dynamic network of
information, people and ideas. The company’s strength -
delivering data, news and analytics through innovative
technology, quickly and accurately - is embodied in the
Bloomberg Professional service, which provides real time
financial information to more than 310,000 subscribers
worldwide. For more information, please visit  www.bloomberg.com   Media Contacts  Vera Newhouse, Bloomberg LP,  vnewhouse@bloomberg.net , +1 212 617
6420  #<261369.8049913.2.1.95.14779.2660>#
 