-- BNY Mellon Settles Part of Foreign-Exchange Trading Lawsuit Filed by U.S.
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/bny-mellon-reaches-partial-deal-with-u-s-over-foreign-exchange-trading.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  agreed
to change its disclosure statements for so-called standing
instruction foreign exchange transactions to partly resolve a
lawsuit by U.S. prosecutors.  The bank won’t use the phrase “best execution” in
describing its standing instruction service to clients or say
that it’s free, according to the agreement approved yesterday by
U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in New York. The U.S. won’t
seek a court order forcing the bank to disclose how it prices
the transactions, according to the filing.  The lawsuit by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  is
one of several brought against the bank, alleging it defrauded
clients in foreign currency trades.  The U.S. attorney in an Oct. 4 complaint claimed that BNY
Mellon defrauded clients that used its standing instruction
foreign exchange service, under which the bank automatically
provides currency exchange when the client buys or sells foreign
securities. The phrase “best execution” suggests that clients
will be getting the best available  exchange rate  at the time of
the transaction, according to the complaint.  “While we are confident that we have provided our clients
and their investment managers with the information needed to
make informed trading decisions, this agreement addresses
disclosure questions raised by the U.S. attorney and is
consistent with our ongoing commitment to implement enhancements
that will benefit our clients,” the bank said in a statement
yesterday.  Pricing Data  Under the partial settlement, BNY Mellon must disclose how
transactions executed through its standing instruction service
are priced and must make certain pricing data available to
custodial clients, Bharara said in a statement yesterday.  The parties will continue to litigate the remaining claim
in the lawsuit for civil penalties, according to the partial
settlement agreement. The U.S. seeks “hundreds of millions” in
penalties, Bharara said.  The case is U.S. v. Bank of  New York  Mellon Corporation,
11-6969, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  