-- BOE’s King Says Excessive Pay May Damage Banks’ Reputations
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-17T13:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/boe-s-king-says-excessive-pay-may-damage-banks-reputations.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said banks must build up capital buffers and may damage their
reputations with excessive compensation at a time when their
share-price performance has “hardly been stellar.”  “The squeeze on real  living standards  has been
unprecedented, and that squeeze on real living standards has
been on people who were clearly in no way responsible for this
crisis,” King said at a Parliament hearing in London today.
“The reputation of those institutions will be affected if their
senior executives reward themselves, particularly in a period
when the performance of the banks in terms of their share prices
has hardly been stellar, with very substantial compensation.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said on Jan. 6 that he will
set out plans shortly to restrain pay at the top of British
companies and banks, including improved transparency and giving
shareholders more power to limit compensation. He said rewards
are “completely out of whack” with performance. The  FTSE 350
Banks Index  has fallen 30 percent in the past year, compared
with a decline of about 5 percent for the FTSE 100 Index.  King said there is a gap between “political rhetoric” and
what can be achieved.  “The most important objective we should have is to end the
too-important-to-fail characteristic of banks,” King said. “If
we could do that then we would reduce to a very large extent the
profits which are being earned by transacting in financial
instruments on the back of money borrowed at very low  interest
rates  because people feel that the institution will be bailed
out if things go badly wrong.”  Public Anger  King said banks must improve the “resilence” of their
balance sheets so they can withstand potential future shocks to
financial stability. His comments echo those published in the
central bank’s Financial Stability Report last year, when it
said that if banks’ earnings aren’t enough to build capital,
they should limit payments of bonuses and dividends.  Still, while King said he can “sympathize” with anger on
pay at banks, compensation decisions are a matter for individual
financial institutions.  “You can take for granted that your concerns about the
impact of the scale of compensation on the attitudes of other
people in the economy are very much on my mind,” he said in
response to questions from the panel of lawmakers.  “But that is a matter for them to decide,” he said. “We
are not responsible for an incomes policy for banks. I don’t
think that would be a sensible direction to go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  