-- BOE’s Posen Says Period of Foreign-Currency Reserve Buildup May Be Ending
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-17T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/boe-s-posen-says-period-of-foreign-currency-reserve-buildup-may-be-ending.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Adam Posen  said the period when Asian and other countries built up
foreign-exchange reserves may be ending as middle classes put
pressure on governments to justify currency policies.  “That period of reserve accumulation is coming to an
end,” Posen said in a speech in London today. “The rise of
sizable and politically influential middle classes in the
 emerging markets  increases the pressures on those economies’
governments to be more accountable with their pots of money.”  As China has grown as an economic power, its exchange-rate
management has seen it accumulate the world’s largest currency
reserves, with holdings at $3.2 trillion as of September. The
U.S. has pressured  China  to let its yuan appreciate against the
dollar and end what it says is an unfair export advantage.  Posen, speaking about the world economy over the next 10 to
20 years, said it will “move instead to a time of increased
private investment diversification across borders.”  “The relative attractiveness of U.S. and other advanced-
country government bonds versus those from emerging markets and
from selected multinational corporations is markedly
declining,” he said.  The reversal of the traditional pattern of capital flows,
where investment shifts to emerging economies from savers in
developed markets, is part of a deterioration in U.S. hegemony
that’s shifting the global balance of power, Posen said.  The policy maker said global politics over the next two
decades will have similarities with the time between 1870 and
1910, which he described as a “multipolar world” with no one
economic power dominating.  ‘Economic Shift’  “This relative economic shift takes place against the
background of the European and U.S. economies having a long way
to go to recover from the accumulation of public and private
indebtedness over the last decade,” Posen said.  He also said that while some people are “concerned that we
are facing a coming period of inflation,” with central banks
“actively inflating away government debt,” these concerns are
“unfounded.”  “The challenge for monetary policy will be to keep
inflation expectations anchored in the face of real rather than
nominal volatility,” Posen said. “Inflationary wage-price
spirals will be rare, and therefore so will be sustained
inflation. In fact, deflation will occur more frequently than in
the recent past, if the late 19th Century is precedent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  