-- BOK Signals No Cut in South Korea Rates as Domestic Demand Counters Europe
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-01-17T07:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/bok-signals-no-cut-in-south-korea-rates-as-domestic-demand-counters-europe.html
Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said that  South Korea ’s  interest rates  are still below
policy makers’ desired level and that discrepancy cannot be left
for long.  “We still think our  monetary policy  is accommodative --by
that what I mean is that in the market there still exists a
little excess liquidity,” Kim, 64, said in an interview at his
office in Seoul today. “Our basic policy direction is to
normalize our interest rates compatible with our demand
pressures and pressures for inflation.”  The BOK, which kept its benchmark rate at 3.25 percent
unchanged four days ago, will need to proceed “cautiously”
given instability in external economies, the governor said. At
the same time, he predicted growth in South Korea,  Asia ’s
fourth-largest economy, will be little changed this year
compared with 2011 as domestic demand offsets an export
slowdown.  “Discrepancy cannot be maintained for a long period of
time” between actual interest rates and the desirable level,
Kim said, without disclosing what the BOK’s calculation is for
the so-called neutral rate. “In that case, all sorts of
distortions in structure will occur. So it is not wise to
maintain such discrepancies for long period of time. That is why
I said we have to move but we have to move very cautiously.”  Yields Rise  The yield on South Korea’s 3.5 percent bonds due September
2016 climbed two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.50
percent at the close in  Seoul , according to Korea Exchange Inc.
Three-year bond futures fell 0.1 percent to 104.45, exchange
data shows. The won gained 0.8 percent to 1,145.40 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There was a certain amount of expectation in the market
for a rate cut, but the BOK governor’s interview weakened the
sentiment,” said Kong Dong Rak, a Seoul-based fixed-income
strategist at Taurus Investment & Securities Co.  By comparison, analysts including those at Nomura Holdings
Inc. and Daewoo Securities Co. see the central bank’s next move
as a reduction, coming in April.  Turning to risks posed by Europe, which provides more than
one-third of the foreign capital that flows into South Korea,
Kim said he’s not as pessimistic as some observers. He
reiterated South Korea’s readiness to help in broader efforts to
stem the crisis.  ‘Active Roles’  “The G-20 and IMF should play more active roles” in
addressing  Europe ’s woes, the governor said today. He declined
to specify the amount of extra resources his country is willing
to provide the  International Monetary Fund  as the Washington-
based lender first needs to come up with its plan.  Risks to South Korea’s economy are increasing and  inflation 
may ease at a moderate pace as growth slows for some time before
picking up, the central bank said on Jan. 13, when it decided by
a unanimous vote to keep the main rate unchanged for a seventh
straight month on Jan. 13. Kim said last week that South Korea
may get on a normal recovery path in the second half of the
year.  The nation’s inflation rate has remained elevated in recent
months in part because a weakening exchange rate has made
imported goods more expensive. Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent
from a year earlier in November and December, exceeding the
central bank’s target limit of 4 percent and the average of 3.2
percent for the decade through 2011.  Oil prices  pose another danger, after climbing 16 percent
in the past three months. Kim signaled today that monetary
policy options are limited to respond to oil, saying “in case
oil prices are up, our inflation will go up and our growth rate
will go down and it’s kind of unavoidable. Of course
domestically we can introduce some policies but those policies
will be economically speaking very costly.”  The BOK forecast in December that the economy will grow 3.7
percent in 2012 and 4.2 percent in 2013 after a 3.8 percent
expansion in 2011. Consumer prices may increase 3.3 percent this
year after a 4 percent gain in 2011, according to the
projections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  