-- Brady-Manning Super Bowl Rematch Would Be Most-Watched U.S. TV Show Ever
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-01-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/brady-manning-super-bowl-rematch-would-be-most-watched-u-s-tv-show-ever.html
A  New York  Giants- New England 
Patriots matchup in the Super Bowl might become the most-watched
show in the history of U.S. television.  Eli Manning threw two touchdown passes to lead the Giants,
as 12-point underdogs, to a 17-14 win against quarterback  Tom Brady  and the Patriots in the National Football League title
game four years ago.  A rematch of those teams and quarterbacks would have enough
subplots to draw even more viewers than last year’s record-
setting Super Bowl between the  Green Bay Packers  and Pittsburgh
Steelers, said Brad Adgate, senior vice president of research at
New York-based Horizon Media Inc.  “These two teams accounted for one of the greatest upsets
in  Super Bowl  history,” Adgate said. “The Patriots and Giants
are the most likely to draw in the casual fans.”  The matchup for the Feb. 5 Super Bowl will be determined
Jan. 22 when New York travels to  San Francisco  for the National
Football Conference championship game and New England hosts the
Baltimore Ravens for the American Football Conference title.  The Packers won last year’s Super Bowl 31-25 in a game that
drew 111 million viewers, the most in U.S. television history.  A Giants-Patriots championship game would be the most
enticing, even more than a San Francisco-Baltimore showdown of
head coach brothers Jim and John Harbaugh, said  Rick Gentile , a
sports management instructor at  Seton Hall University  in South
Orange,  New Jersey , and a former executive producer and senior
vice president at CBS Sports.  “The better matchup is the Giants-Pats,” Gentile said in
an interview. “You’d have two big markets, and the Giants are
an incredible story, coming from nowhere to challenge for the
title. You can’t dismiss the interest in the Manning family
either, or in Tom Brady.”  Super Bowl  The 2007 Patriots, led by two-time Super Bowl Most Valuable
Player Brady, amassed an 18-0 mark heading into the Feb. 3,
2008, Super Bowl, one victory short of a perfect season. The
Giants won when Manning, who was selected as the game’s MVP,
threw a 13-yard touchdown pass to  Plaxico Burress  with 35
seconds remaining.  The teams didn’t face one another again until Nov. 6 of
this year. The game was in Foxborough,  Massachusetts , and again
the Giants were underdogs. Manning threw a 1-yard touchdown pass
to Jake Ballard with 15 seconds left to give New York a 24-20
victory, ending the Patriots’ 20-game regular-season home
winning streak.  Adgate said a 49ers-Ravens matchup would still be exciting,
though it lacks the storylines a New England-New York game would
have.  Most-Watched Game  When the Ravens beat the 49ers 16-6 in Baltimore on Nov. 25
this year, it became the most-watched game in the eight-year
history of the NFL Network, with 10.7 million viewers tuning
into the game.  Chris McCloskey, a spokesman for Comcast Corp.’s NBC, which
is showing this year’s Super Bowl, said the network doesn’t
comment on ratings projections.  Adgate said that unlike the  National Basketball Association 
or  Major League Baseball , market size doesn’t matter in the NFL
as it did years ago.  “The NBA would dread having Oklahoma City in the Finals
from a ratings perspective,” Adgate said. “That wouldn’t be
the case in the NFL because people will watch anyway. It’s more
about the storylines. And either of these matchups have the
ingredients to push the numbers ever higher.”  Close Game  Another factor driving viewership is how close the game is,
Adgate said.  “There are two ways to increase viewership: More people
can watch, and more people can watch longer,” he said. “If
it’s a close game like the last two have been, it could draw big
ratings.”  And one other element plays into the mix, which has nothing
to do with the quarterbacks or even football.  “Snowmageddon,” Adgate said. “If we had a blizzard that
kept people indoors rather than going to a bar or restaurant to
watch the game, that would be really big.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  