-- Brazilian Interest-Rate Futures Rise on Inflation Report; Real Declines
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-01-17T21:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/brazil-real-surges-to-two-month-high-on-china-stimulus-outlook.html
Yields on most Brazilian rate
futures contracts jumped as inflation slowed less than forecast
in the past month, prompting traders to pare back bets on how
much the central bank will lower benchmark borrowing costs.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013 rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 10.06 percent. The
real fell 0.1 percent to 1.7873 per  U.S. dollar , after earlier
rallying to 1.7674, the strongest since Nov. 18.  Successful bond auctions in  Europe  and the prospect of
monetary easing in  China  boosted global growth optimism, which
also pushed up yields, Mauricio Nakahodo, senior economist at CM
Capital Markets, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  “The external environment is helping to put pressure on
futures yields,” Nakahodo said. “The IGP-10 inflation index
came a little above expectations.”  Prices rose 0.08 percent in the past month, compared with a
0.19 percent increase in the earlier period, the Rio de Janeiro-
based Getulio Vargas Foundation said today. The figure exceeded
the 0.02 percent estimate of 32 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Brazilian policy makers have cut the benchmark lending rate
150 basis points since August to 11 percent to shore up the
economy. Traders are anticipating central bank President
Alexandre Tombini will reduce the Selic rate by 50 basis points
at a two-day policy meeting that starts today and to as low as
10 percent by May, according to rate futures yields.  European Debt  The real erased gains while other major and emerging-market
currencies continued rallying, a sign investors are wagering the
currency has little reason to appreciate further amid sovereign
debt concerns in Europe, said  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin
American fixed-income research at IdeaGlobal in  New York .  The real “has been ahead of the stream the last few days
and it’s just consolidating” its gains, Alvarez said. “The
market is increasingly anxious in regards to  Greece .”  The real surged earlier after a report showed economic
growth in China,  Brazil ’s biggest trading partner, slowed to 8.9
percent in the fourth quarter, fueling speculation the
government will take steps to boost economic growth.  Sylvia Chiu, an economist at SinoPac Financial in Taipei
who was the only analyst in a Bloomberg survey to predict the
fourth quarter growth figure, forecasts policy makers will cut
banks’ reserve requirement ratios to 19 percent by year-end from
21 percent today and push down benchmark lending rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  