-- Brookfield Asset Cancels Offer for Kerzner’s Atlantis Bahamas Resort
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-01-17T21:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/brookfield-cancels-agreement-for-kerzner-s-atlantis-resort-in-the-bahamas.html
Brookfield Asset Management canceled
its agreement to exchange debt to acquire  Kerzner International
Holdings Ltd. (KZL) ’s Atlantis resorts in the  Bahamas .  “Two  hedge funds  got a temporary restraining order on
Friday and, as a result of that, we have terminated the offer to
acquire,” Andrew Willis, a Brookfield spokesman, said today in
a telephone interview. The funds are Trilogy Portfolio Co. and
Canyon Value Realization Fund LP. “We’re reviewing all
options.”  Kerzner in November agreed to hand ownership of its
flagship property to Brookfield, a Toronto-based investment
firm, as part of a debt restructuring.  Brookfield  at the time
planned to forgive $175 million of junior debt for ownership of
the Bahamas-based Atlantis and the Bahamas One&Only Ocean Club,
as well as a half interest in the One&Only Palmilla in  Mexico .  Kerzner has struggled with debt since the 2008 financial
crisis pushed down hotel values and room rates. The resort --
famous for its Mayan-themed water slides and up-close encounters
with dolphins, sharks and rays -- is surrounded by an artificial
open-air marine habitat featuring 50,000 sea creatures and a
marina to “attract the sleek international mega-yacht set,”
according to its website.  The properties Brookfield planned to take over had about
$2.6 billion in debt when negotiations began. That would have
shrunk to about $2.3 billion, with Brookfield’s forgiveness and
an earlier $100 million payment that was part of a maturity
extension.  Centerbridge, TPG Capital  Holders of Kerzner’s debt included Centerbridge Capital
Partners LLC, TPG Capital, Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank and
 Fidelity Investments , people familiar with the talks said last
year.  Jennifer Ferguson, a Kerzner spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Brookfield’s agreement termination was  reported  by the Wall
Street Journal earlier today.  Investors including Trilogy, of Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
sued Brookfield in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington on Jan.
4, alleging “brazen self-dealing” and seeking an order to stop
the transaction and asking for unspecified damages. Brian C.
Ralston, a Brookfield lawyer, wrote to the court on Jan. 14 that
“the proposed transaction has been terminated,” and the case
is moot.  The case is Trilogy Portfolio Co. LLC et al, v. Brookfield
Real Estate Financial Partners LLC, CA7161, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  