-- BTG Wins Approval From U.S. FDA for Drug to Mitigate Toxic Cancer Medicine
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-01-17T22:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/btg-wins-approval-from-u-s-fda-for-drug-to-mitigate-toxic-cancer-medicine.html
BTG Plc (BGC) , a London-based specialty
pharmaceutical company, won U.S. approval for its drug to combat
the toxic effects of a cancer treatment.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the medicine to
reduce toxic methotrexate levels due to  kidney failure , the
agency said today in a  statement . Methotrexate is a common
chemotherapy used against recurring types of certain cancers,
including leukemia and lymphoma.  The drug, known as Voraxaze, is expected to produce peak
sales of $15 million, Louise Makin, BTG’s chief executive
officer, said Nov. 17 during an earnings call. Methotrexate can
 cause death , liver and lung damage and may leave patients
susceptible to serious infections, according to the  National
Institutes of Health .  “Voraxaze is an important new treatment option for cancer
patients aimed at preventing these toxicities associated with
sustained high levels of methotrexate,”  Richard Pazdur ,
director of the FDA’s Office of Hematology and Oncology
Products, said in the statement.  Protherics Plc, acquired by BTG in 2008, withdrew its
European application for Voraxaze in 2007 after the European
Medicines Agency raised concerns that the purity of the product
may have been affected by a plan to manufacture the drug at a
factory that hadn’t been used to make the medicine for clinical
trials. Potential European approval is contingent on future
conversations with government and regulatory bodies, Ashley
Tapp, a spokeswoman for BTG, said by e-mail.  Orphan-Drug Status  Voraxaze was granted an orphan-drug status because it will
treat a condition that affects fewer than 200,000 Americans.
Orphan drugs are awarded seven additional years to market their
products free from generic competition.  Voraxaze is available in the U.S. as part of a
compassionate-use program under which the FDA allows patients
with immediately life-threatening diseases access to alternative
treatments on a case-by-case basis. The medicine brought in
 sales  of $5.1 million for the year ending March 31, 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 