-- Millionaires Back Buffett Tax If They’re Exempt
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 2012-01-17T17:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/buffett-tax-on-wealthy-backed-by-millionaires-if-they-re-exempt.html
Millionaires support  Warren Buffett ’s view that the wealthiest should pay more in  taxes , as
long as it’s other rich Americans, according to a survey
released today.  About 71 percent of millionaires surveyed said they agree
with Buffett, chairman and chief executive officer of Omaha,
Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , that the very wealthy
ought to pay more taxes and give more to charity. That included
49 percent who said that they’re “not in the same league” as
Buffett and that the higher taxes shouldn’t apply to them
personally, according to the survey from PNC Wealth Management,
a unit of Pittsburgh-based  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)   “When we compare ourselves to somebody else, we always
think that they should do more,” said R. Bruce Bickel, senior
vice president of PNC Wealth Management, whose parent company is
the sixth-largest U.S. bank by deposits. The 555 respondents,
each with investable assets of $1 million or more excluding real
estate, may be saying, “‘I don’t consider myself the ultra-
wealthy, when I compare myself to a Buffett,’” Bickel said.  Buffett, 81, the world’s third-richest person according to
Forbes magazine, urged Congress in August to raise taxes on
households earning more than $1 million. About 236,883
households earned $1 million or more in 2009, according to the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  Tax Rates  Income-tax rates for top earners will rise to 39.6 percent
from 35 percent in 2013 and rates on  capital gains  and  dividends 
also may rise, unless Congress acts.  The survey didn’t ask what level of income or assets should
trigger higher taxes, according to Alan Aldinger, a PNC
spokesman. About 41 percent of those surveyed said they would
change their investment strategy in response to an increase in
taxes, and 24 percent said they would reduce commitments to
philanthropy.  Almost 70 percent said they plan to increase charitable
giving or give the same amount, and about 22 percent have cut
back or plan to donate less. About 27 percent of respondents,
who were surveyed in September and October, said they gave more
than $25,000 to charity in 2010, up from 9 percent who reported
donations of that size three years ago.  Giving Back  “People are beginning to say, ‘In difficult times, those
of us who have been blessed with financial wealth need to give
back,’” Bickel said.  Taxpayers generally can’t take deductions for charitable
contributions of more than 50 percent of their adjusted gross
income, according to the IRS.  About 71 percent of respondents said they’re much better
off than their parents were at the same age, compared with about
10 percent who said they expect their children will be much
better off by the time they’re the same age.  “Some may be saying the American dream is not something
that’s achievable for the next generation,” Bickel said.  PNC hired Artemis Strategy Group, a public-relations
research and consulting group, and HNW Inc., a marketing firm,
to conduct the online survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 