-- Burberry Navigates Tough Economy
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-01-17T16:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/burberry-mindful-of-economy-after-sales-rise.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K’s
largest luxury-goods maker, reported third-quarter sales that
beat analysts’ estimates and said it sees no reason to change
full-year forecasts as it negotiates a “challenging” economy.  Revenue in the three months ended Dec. 31 climbed 22
percent to 574 million pounds ($882 million), the London-based
company said today in a statement. That was higher than the
568.3 million-pound average of four  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Excluding currency shifts, sales climbed 21 percent.  Burberry, which gets more than half of sales in 25 so-
called flagship markets including  New York  and Hong Kong, has
said it can weather any fallout from Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis by focusing on wealthy clients in these cities. Chinese
consumers, who spend an average 1,700 euros ($2,165) on luxury
shopping when traveling in  Europe , will help offset weakening
local demand, according to CA Cheuvreux analyst Thomas Mesmin.  “The momentum at Burberry remains strong,” Chief
Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright said on a call with
reporters. “We are mindful as ever of the challenging macro
environment.” The consensus analyst estimate for full-year
pretax profit is about 375 million pounds, Cartwright said.  Burberry rose 1 penny to 1,301 pence in  London . The  stock 
has gained 9.8 percent this month.  Asia-Pacific  Sales climbed 36 percent in the Asia-Pacific region, 20
percent in Europe, 4 percent in the Americas and 31 percent in
the rest of the world, on an underlying basis, Burberry said.  Retail sales, which contributed more than 70 percent of
quarterly revenue, climbed 23 percent, excluding currency
shifts, and 13 percent on a comparable basis, Burberry said.  “The traveling luxury consumer drove outperformance of
flagship markets such as London, Paris,  Hong Kong  and  Las
Vegas ,” the trenchcoat maker said. Consumers in southern Europe
have been more affected by the debt crisis than their northern
European counterparts, Cartwright said on the call.  Comparable store growth in  China  continued at around 30
percent, Burberry said.  About half of the retail unit’s revenue increase came from
“core” outerwear and large leather-goods, Burberry said. The
Burberry London range contributed to “strong growth” in
average selling prices, the company said.  Knitwear, men’s tailoring, fragrances and watches were
among the fastest growing categories.  Expansion Plan Trimmed  Burberry lowered its forecast for growth in average retail
selling space to as much as 14 percent in the second half, from
15 percent. The company had “a couple of extra closures” of
Spanish men’s wear concessions and overestimated space in some
new stores, the CFO said. “It’s nothing of any significance.”  Third-party sales rose 15 percent, excluding currency
shifts, Burberry said. In the U.S., a “strong” performance in
key department-store accounts and new shop-in-shops was offset
by a planned rationalization of distribution, Burberry said.  For the second half, Burberry said it expects wholesale
revenue to increase by a mid single-digit percentage at constant
exchange rates, repeating a previous forecast.  Licensing revenue rose 12 percent on an underlying basis.
For the year, licensing revenue will increase by a mid single-
digit percentage, excluding currency moves, Burberry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  