-- Canada Bubble Seen as IMF Risk With Record Low Rates: Mortgages
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-01-17T19:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/canada-courts-housing-bubble-imf-sees-as-risk-with-record-rates-mortgages.html
Kevin Lau, a Toronto-based
technology consultant, says he can’t wait to take advantage of
the lowest  mortgage rates  in Canadian history to buy a second
condominium and rent his current home.  Lau, 28, plans to get another mortgage and refinance his
C$160,000 ($157,000) home loan after  Bank of Montreal , Toronto-
Dominion Bank and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  cut borrowing costs last
week.  “It’s always tempting when the credit is available at much
lower rates than they ever have been,” Lau said. “The fact
that house prices have been going up and continue to go up much
faster, you need to really take advantage of it.”  Banks are competing to offer mortgages at rates as low as
2.99 percent as their funding costs drop on investor demand for
the relative safety of Canadian bonds amid Europe’s fiscal
crisis. That’s fueling real estate purchases, potentially
inflating a housing bubble and adding to  record  household debt,
which the  International Monetary Fund  says poses a risk to the
nation’s economy.  “It could increase the housing bubble,” said Sheryl King,
head of Canadian economics at Bank of America Corp., who
estimates the country’s housing prices are overvalued by about
10 percent. “The lower  interest rates  are, the more speculative
demand you will have in the market.”  Credit easing by central banks and commercial lenders
around the world is sparking a household debt surge in haven
countries such as  Canada  and Norway, which escaped the last
housing crisis by steering clear of  subprime  mortgages that
escalated the U.S. slump.  Bank of Canada Rate  The Bank of Canada today kept its benchmark lending rate at
1 percent, extending a record period of unchanged rates to
counter economic risks posed by Europe. The central bank will
probably maintain the key overnight rate at 1 percent until the
first quarter of 2013, according to forecasts from economists
compiled by Bloomberg.  At the same time, record-low bond yields have prompted the
country’s commercial lenders to drop mortgage rates to entice
borrowers ahead of the spring home-buying season. Canadian bonds
have rallied as investors are drawn to the country’s AAA rated
debt after  France ,  Spain  and other European nations were
downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s .  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , Canada’s fourth-biggest bank, dropped the
rate for a five-year fixed-rate mortgage by 50 basis points, or
0.5 percentage points, to 2.99 percent on Jan. 12, the lowest in
its 195-year history. Toronto-Dominion and Royal Bank, Canada’s
two-biggest lenders, followed suit the next day with the same
rate on a fixed four-year loan. Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, the fifth-biggest bank, matched the offers yesterday,
as did  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  today.  Market Correction  “This type of pricing obviously makes headlines, so you’re
starting to see other lenders now jockeying for position,” Rob
McLister, a mortgage broker who runs the  Canadian Mortgage
Trends  website from West Vancouver.  The heads of  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  and Royal Bank warned as
recently as last week that housing markets in Toronto and
Vancouver are at risk of a correction, particularly for
condominiums.  “Investor-owned condo properties have got to be a cause
for concern, just because of supply and demand,” Bank of
Montreal Chief Executive Officer William Downe said Jan. 10 at a
banking conference in Toronto. Royal Bank CEO Gordon Nixon said
“there’s no question” that the condo markets in Vancouver and
Toronto are the most vulnerable in the country.  Price Gains  Canadian home sales last year increased 9.5 percent to
C$166 billion, the Canadian Real Estate Association said
yesterday, as  home prices  rose 7.2 percent.  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD)  estimated in a Dec. 22 report the average Canadian home is
overvalued by about 10 percent.  The average resale price rose 0.9 percent in December from
a year earlier to C$347,801, the smallest monthly increase since
October 2010, the real estate group said.  Other reports last week showed strength in the housing
market, with new home construction increasing 7.9 percent in
December and residential building permits rising 6.9 percent in
November.  Canadian home prices fell by 8.5 percent between August
2008 and April 2009, but have since increased by 22 percent,
according to the  Teranet Home Price Index (TNBHICP) . By comparison, U.S.
home prices fell by 33 percent between July 2006 and March 2011,
and have since increased by 1.9 percent, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller Composite-20 Home Price  Index (SPCS20) .  Plunging Rates  Mortgage rates have also plunged in the U.S., with the
average rate for a 30-year fixed loan dropping to 3.89 percent
last week, the lowest in records dating to 1971,  Freddie Mac 
said in a statement.  “While the expectation is that housing will stay strong,
it could slip out of control if the Canadian economy’s growth
falters due to a new U.S. recession,” said Scott MacDonald,
head of research for MC Asset Management Holdings LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut.  Canadian  household debt  rose to a record 153 percent of
disposable income in the third quarter of 2011 as borrowing
increased,  Statistics Canada  said Dec. 13. That contrasts with
146 percent in the U.S., and a projected 204 percent this year
for Norway.  Norway, whose oil wealth is attracting investors to its
 government bonds , may suffer a collapse in its housing market
that would be “dangerous” to the economy,  Robert Shiller , the
co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price index said Jan. 12
in an interview in Copenhagen.  “It looks like a bubble to me, so the collapse of that
bubble, that’s dangerous to any economy,” said Shiller, who is
also an economics professor at  Yale University .  Economic Risk  The Bank of Canada said last month that consumer debt is
the main domestic risk to financial stability, predicting the
burden will keep setting records as income growth lags behind
borrowing.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened lending rules a
year ago, shortening the maximum amortization period for
government-insured mortgages to 30 years from 35 years, and
lowering the maximum amount homeowners can borrow against the
value of their homes.  He may be forced to take additional steps to ensure banks
don’t bloat household debts that are threatening the recovery,
said King at Bank of America.  “If we are in a competitive environment like this, rates
are going to continue to go lower,” King said in a telephone
interview from Toronto. “There is no other way to control it
other than more regulation of the mortgage market.”  IMF Report  The IMF agrees, saying Canadian authorities may need to
take more measures to rein in household debt, which along with
high  house prices  pose a risk to the nation’s economy.  “Adverse macroeconomic shocks, such as a faltering global
environment and declining commodity prices, could result in
significant job losses, tighter lending standards, and declines
in house prices, triggering a protracted period of weak private
consumption as households reduce their debt,” IMF staff wrote
in the annual assessment of the country’s economy last month.  Flaherty said today he’s prepared to intervene in the
housing market if necessary, although the government has no
immediate plans to take action. He said he’s watching the
condominium markets in Toronto and Vancouver, and said there has
been some softening in the housing market.  The commercial banks say the low rates are a reflection of
falling bond yields, and will help consumers pay off debt
faster. The 10-year yield touched 1.837 percent on Dec. 16, the
lowest level in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1989 as
 Europe ’s crisis drives demand for Canada’s AAA rated bonds. The
 premium  to equivalent-maturity U.S. Treasuries is seven basis
points, compared with 32 basis points on Sept. 5, the most in
2011.  ‘Not an Invitation’  “Low rates are absolutely not an invitation for Canadians
to overextend themselves,” Farhaneh Haque, director of mortgage
advice at Toronto-Dominion, said in an interview from Toronto.
“If you look at the low rates, you could look at them for the
interest savings that will help you get debt-free faster.”  Bank of Montreal’s mortgage offer is limited to 25-year
amortizations to ensure consumers pay off their loans faster,
the lender said. About 22 percent of Canadian mortgages have
amortization periods of more than 25 years, according to a
 survey  by the Canadian Association of Accredited Mortgage
Professionals.  “We’re giving a low rate with a shorter amortization to
help people reduce their debt quicker,” said John Turner, Bank
of Montreal’s national director of specialized sales and
investment lending. “It’s about doing prudent things for
customers that want to be debt-free sooner.”  Reduce Risks  Part of Bank of Montreal’s motivation may be to reduce
risks by drawing more people into fixed-rate mortgages, where
the rate is guaranteed for the full term, King said. About 60
percent of mortgages in Canada are for fixed terms, according to
the CAAMP survey. The remainder are adjusted and so-called
variable, tied to the prime lending rate, which rises and falls
with the Bank of Canada rate.  “Variable has been the story for the last couple of
years,” King said. Banks “are worried about the fact that
households are taking on too much risk.”  Lau says he’s aware of the risks, yet can’t resist the low
rates to add to his real estate investments.  “I read that the three banking chiefs are saying that
housing prices have to go down, and now here they’re offering
the lowest mortgage rates we’ve seen in a long time, which
sparks people to actually want to purchase more places,” Lau
said. “I don’t know what to believe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  