-- Canadian Dollar Touches a Two-Week High on Growth Outlook for China
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-17T22:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/canada-s-dollar-remains-higher-as-china-growth-boosts-commodity-outlook.html
Canada ’s dollar reached the
strongest level in two weeks against its U.S. counterpart as
faster-than-forecast growth in  China  bolstered demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The currency dropped against a majority of its most traded
counterparts as the Bank of Canada left  interest rates  unchanged
and reiterated that European governments are struggling to
manage a fiscal crisis. Global equities and crude oil advanced.  “Markets are fairly buoyant,” Blake Jespersen, director
of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “The Canadian dollar is benefiting from
that.”  Canada’s currency touched C$1.0113 per  U.S. dollar , the
strongest since Jan. 4. It ended 0.3 percent higher at C$1.0151
in Toronto. One Canadian dollar purchases 98.51 U.S. cents.  Government bonds  rose, with the benchmark 10-year yield at
1.91 percent, down two basis points. The price of the 3.25
percent security rose 14 cents to C$111.41.  The C$1.0080 level provides “tremendous support” for the
U.S. dollar versus the loonie, and greenback buyers will emerge
if the loonie strengthens to that point, Jespersen said. Support
refers to the lower boundary of a trading range, where buy
orders may be clustered.  The Ottawa-based central bank left its target for overnight
loans between commercial banks at 1 percent, where it has been
since September 2010, as forecast by all 26 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Economic growth will be “more modest” amid
a weaker outlook for the U.S. and  Europe , policy makers said.  ‘On the Sidelines’  “They recognize that it looks like a deeper, longer
European recession than what they thought in October,”  Shane Enright , executive director at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC World Markets, said by phone from Toronto.
“They seem comfortably on the sidelines. That’s where the
market thought they would be, and you’ve seen that reflected in
the currency, which has shown very little reaction.”  The currency, nicknamed the loonie, rose to 94.07 Canadian
cents per U.S. dollar on July 26, the strongest level since
November 2007, on speculation the Bank of Canada would lift
interest rates as the global economy expanded. Since then it has
depreciated to as low as C$1.0658 on concern Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis may spark another liquidity crunch.  The Canadian dollar will extend its gain against the yen as
U.S. economic resilience and a rally in crude oil support demand
for the currency, according to RBS Securities Inc.’s Robert Sinche.  China Expansion  China’s economy  expanded 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, the nation’s statistics bureau said. A
Bloomberg News survey forecast an 8.7 percent gain. China is the
world’s second-largest oil consumer after the U.S. It is also
the biggest buyer of  iron ore  and copper.  Canada derives about half its export revenue from the sale
of  raw materials  such as crude, coal, natural gas, wheat, lumber
and gold.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (MXWO)  climbed 0.4 percent. The
MSCI World Index of equities in developed nations rose 0.1
percent. Crude oil for February delivery advanced 2 percent to
$101 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  