-- Canada Retains Benchmark Rate at 1% Amid ‘More Modest’ Economic Recovery
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-01-17T15:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/canada-retains-benchmark-rate-at-1-amid-more-modest-economic-recovery.html
The Bank of  Canada  kept its main
interest rate unchanged for an 11th consecutive meeting and said
economic growth will be “more modest” amid a weaker outlook
for the U.S. and Europe.  The Ottawa-based central bank left the target for overnight
loans between commercial banks at 1 percent, where it has been
since September 2010, as forecast by all 26 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg News.  The rate pause is the longest since the central bank
adopted the  overnight target  as its policy rate in 1994, and
longer than the “conditional commitment” to hold it at 0.25
percent that lasted from April 2009 to June 2010. European
governments are struggling to manage a fiscal crisis and U.S.
growth will also be hampered by the need to pare debts, the  Bank
of Canada  said today.  “While the economy had more momentum than anticipated in
the second half of 2011, the pace of growth going forward is
expected to be more modest than previously envisaged, largely
due to the external environment,” policy makers led by Governor
 Mark Carney , 46, said in a statement. “There is considerable
monetary policy stimulus in Canada,” the central bank said,
echoing its previous decision.  Slower Growth Ahead  Canadian bonds trimmed losses after the announcement with
yields, which move inversely to prices, declining. The benchmark
2-year  government bond , which saw its yield rise as high as
0.982 percent, was almost unchanged from yesterday at 0.965 at
10:15 a.m. in Toronto. The six-month overnight index  swap rate ,
which measures what investors think the bank’s policy rate will
average over that time, was little changed at 0.965 percent.  Canada’s economy, the world’s 10th largest, will expand 2
percent this year and 2.8 percent next year, compared with an
October forecast for expansions of 1.9 percent and 2.9 percent,
the bank said. The estimate of 2011 growth was increased to 2.4
percent from 2.1 percent.  “A lot of the things that pulled Canada out of the
recession quickly can’t continue to lead the way, and now we
need help from the rest of the world,” said  Doug Porter , deputy
chief economist with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  Carney, who was named chairman of the Financial Stability
Board in November, will hold a press conference tomorrow after
releasing a detailed forecast in a Monetary Policy Report.  The  European Central Bank ,  Norway  and  Australia  cut
 interest rates  last month to stem the damage from slowing global
growth.  ‘Rates On Hold’  “The bias is still just to keep rates on hold for the
foreseeable future,” said Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist
at TD Securities in Toronto “As long as these external
headwinds persist the bank doesn’t have any incentive to take
rates higher.”  European leaders have spent two years working to stem their
crisis.  Standard & Poor’s  reduced the credit ratings for nine of
17 European countries including France, Italy and  Spain  on Jan.
13.  “The Bank continues to assume that European authorities
will implement sufficient measures to contain the crisis,
although this assumption is clearly subject to downside risks,”
the Bank of Canada said. “The Bank expects the U.S. recovery
will proceed at a more modest pace going forward, owing to
ongoing household deleveraging, fiscal consolidation and the
spillovers from Europe.”  Inflation Above Target  Carney’s interest-rate freeze comes even as inflation
exceeds his 2 percent target. Consumer prices rose 2.9 percent
in November from a year earlier,  Statistics Canada  said Dec. 20.
The average monthly gain in consumer prices through November was
3 percent, on pace for the highest average pace since Canada
adopted inflation targets two decades ago.  The central bank predicted in October  inflation  will slow
to 1 percent by the middle of this year. Today, the bank said
that the economy will return to full output and the pace of
price increases will accelerate back to its 2 percent target in
the third quarter of 2013, one quarter earlier than it had
forecast.  Some Canadian executives also say that the recovery may be
curbed by events abroad, including the U.S., which buys three-
quarters of Canada’s exports. RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine,
California-based data vendor, said Jan. 12 that banks may seize
more than 1 million U.S. homes this year, a 25 percent increase.  Not ‘Immune’  Canada’s consumers have been steady, Rogers Communications
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Nadir Mohamed said on a conference
call last month, adding “we’re not going to be immune to what’s
happening in the rest of the world,  Europe  and the U.S.”  The Canadian dollar’s “persistent strength” also remains
a challenge to exporters, the central bank said again today.  The Canadian dollar hung onto gains after the announcement.
The currency was trading at C$1.0149 per  U.S. dollar  at 10:15
a.m., from c$1.0179 yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 98.53
cents.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who has ended a two-year
government stimulus program, said last week he will consider new
initiatives if there is new major slowdown. On Nov. 8, Flaherty
pushed back his target for eliminating Canada’s deficit by a
year to 2015 because slower growth will erode revenue.  The Bank of Canada today also reiterated that  household
debt  will keep rising to records, after reaching 153 percent of
disposable income in the third quarter. The bank said last month
consumer debt is the main domestic risk to financial stability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  