-- Carnival Ship Captain Under House Arrest as Death Toll Rises
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-18T11:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/carnival-corp-ship-captain-granted-house-arrest-as-death-toll-rises-to-11.html
The captain of a  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  ship
that ran aground off Italy was placed under house arrest hours
after audio emerged of a Coast Guard official ordering him to
return to his damaged ship and oversee rescue efforts.  Captain Francesco Schettino, who may face criminal charges
including manslaughter, was put under house arrest late
yesterday by a judge in Grosseto, Italy, his lawyer, Bruno
Leporatti, told reporters in remarks broadcast on Sky TG24
television. The ruling came hours after divers discovered five
more bodies on the stricken ship, bringing the death toll to 11.
Twenty-eight people are missing, according to Italy’s Civil
Protection agency.  Judge Valeria Montesarchio took three hours of testimony
from Schettino as TV news programs and websites broadcast audio
of phone conversations on Jan. 13 between Schettino and a senior
Coast Guard official after the Costa Concordia struck rocks off
the island of Giglio and tilted on its side with 4,200 people on
board.  Coast Guard Commander Gregorio Maria De Falco repeatedly
ordered Schettino to get back on the cruise liner, at times
swearing at the captain. Schettino initially told the official
that only 40 people remained on the ship at a time when hundreds
were still trying to evacuate. The ship began listing,
complicating efforts to lower lifeboats and forcing passengers
to move across the exposed hull to reach rescue boats.  Rope Ladders  “There are people climbing down a rope ladder on the bow
of the ship, take a lifeboat and climb up that ladder and climb
up on to the ship and tell me how many people are there,” De
Falco, speaking from the city of Livorno on the Italian
mainland, told Schettino, according to audio posted yesterday on
the website of newspaper  Corriere della Sera . “Tell me if there
are women, children and people in need.”  When the captain hesitated to reply, De Falco said there
were fatalities and again ordered him to return. “You realize
it’s dark and we can’t see anything?” Schettino said, adding
that “other rescue workers” were now in place.  “You’ve been telling me that for an hour, now get back on
board!” the Coast Guard official shouted. A Coast Guard
spokesman confirmed that the audio is authentic.  Flight Risk  Schettino didn’t return and took a taxi on Giglio before
being arrested, media including Sky TG24 reported. Prosecutor
Francesco Verusio had requested that Schettino be held in jail
because of the risk he might flee, rather than be permitted to
return to his home in Sorrento,  Italy .  Schettino told the judge he made a navigational error that
led to the accident, daily la Repubblica reported today, citing
testimony. Schettino said he knew the waters in the area but
ordered the ship to turn too late, according to the Italian
newspaper. He said he brought the ship close to Giglio as a
salute to a colleague, with whom he was speaking on the phone at
the time, Repubblica reported.  Leporatti wasn’t immediately available for comment today on
the Repubblica report and didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
confirmation. He will hold a press conference today in Grosseto,
according to his office. Schettino is “shattered, dismayed,
saddened for the loss of lives and strongly disturbed,”
Leporatti said in a statement Jan. 16.  Rescue divers discovered five more bodies yesterday after
setting off small explosives to allow them to reach more remote
parts of the ship.  Authorities yesterday for the first time
released a list of those still unaccounted for.  Carnival shares fell 14 percent in  New York  yesterday to
$29.60, the biggest decline since the first day of trading after
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in 2001.  ‘Deeply Saddened’  Carnival Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Micky Arison,
said he was “deeply saddened” by the news of the additional
deaths.  “Our immediate priority continues to be supporting rescue
and recovery efforts and looking after our guests and crew
members, along with securing the vessel to ensure there is no
environmental impact,” Arison said in an e-mailed statement
late yesterday.  “My senior management team and I have been in continuous
contact with the Costa executive team in Italy and we have our
senior-level technical experts on the ground to provide
additional support for this tragic and highly unusual
incident.”  First Accident  Schettino, who joined the company in 2002, was promoted to
captain in 2006 and never had a prior accident, according to
Pier Luigi Foschi, chairman of Carnival’s Italian unit, Costa
Crociere SpA.  The Costa Concordia ran aground about 9:45 p.m. on Jan. 13
within hours of leaving a port near  Rome  to continue a
Mediterranean cruise. The ship’s route was set electronically
before it left, and the cruise liner shouldn’t have been so
close to Giglio, Foschi said at a press conference in Genoa on
Jan. 16.  “The fact that the ship strayed from that course can only
be due to a maneuver that was not approved, not authorized nor
communicated to Costa Crociere by the captain of the ship,”
Foschi said.  Foschi visited the island yesterday and said the accident
didn’t reflect any safety issues with Costa ships.  “Our ships are safe just as they were on Friday,” he said
from Giglio, where the Concordia juts out of the water just off
the edge of the island. “It has nothing to do with security at
sea nor does it have anything to do with our policy, training or
the quality of our personnel.”  Electrical Problem  Passengers were initially told after the collision that the
ship had an electrical problem and there was nothing to be
concerned about. The order to abandon ship wasn’t given for more
than an hour after the accident, when the ship was beginning to
list, making it impossible to lower many of the lifeboats,
passengers on the cruise liner said. Video released Jan. 16 of
the rescue operation showed hundreds of passengers clamoring
along the side of the ship to reach ladders that led down to
water, where they were loaded onto rescue boats.  Giglio, an island of 1,500 inhabitants in winter who
survive on fishing and tourism, is located about 14 miles from
the Tuscan coast. Giglio lies within the “Santuario dei
Cetacei,” an area of roughly 33,784 square kilometers that in
1999 was declared by the governments of France, Italy and Monaco
a sanctuary for marine mammals such as dolphins and whales.  Salvage Operation  Smit Salvage, a unit of Royal Boskalis Westminster NV,
contracted by Costa Crociere to remove the ship’s 2,400 tons of
oil, is ready to begin inspecting the vessel as soon as today.
The company will need two to four weeks to take the fuel off the
ship, executives said on a conference call yesterday.  “The vessel is stable and we feel confident that removal
can be done in a fairly rapid way,” Kees van Essen, Smit’s
manager of operations, said during the call. There have been no
leaks so far and salvage operations don’t increase the chance of
leaks, he said.  Weather conditions in the area, which have been calm since
the accident, are forecast to deteriorate beginning tomorrow.  Italian Environment Minister Corrado Clini said yesterday
that the pumping of the fuel won’t begin until the search-and-
rescue operation is completed. Clini, who said this week he was
concerned about the threat of an environmental disaster, will
speak in parliament today at 4 p.m. about the salvage operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  