-- Carnival Drops as CEO Oversees Shipwreck Response From Miami
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-01-17T21:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/carnival-chief-micky-arison-faces-fallout-from-worst-accident-in-40-years.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL)  dropped the most
since September 2001 after the cruise company’s worst accident,
as Chief Executive Officer Micky Arison oversees the response
from Miami, 5,000 miles (8,000 kilometers) from the Italian
site.  Company officials have joined local authorities in blaming
the Costa Concordia’s captain for getting too close to the
island of Giglio in the Tyrrhenian Sea. Arison, who built
Carnival to almost $16 billion in annual sales, has so far left
it to regional cruise managers to face the press since the ship
ran aground Jan. 13, leaving at least 11 dead and 24 missing.  Public appearances by CEOs are generally important in
helping companies regain  consumer confidence  following
accidents, said Peter Hirsch, director of reputation risk at
Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide. For Arison, 62, the need to
soothe concerns may be urgent as this is the peak season for
cruise bookings.  “Whenever there are fatalities and serious injuries, it’s
important for the most senior leadership to be visible,” Hirsch
said, without specifically commenting on Carnival. “Some
visibility is certainly a good thing.”  Arison, whose father founded Carnival in 1972, and Chief
Operating Officer Howard Frank are helping coordinate actions
with authorities in Italy from  Florida , the Miami-based cruise
operator said. Carnival has hired communication consultants
Burson-Marsteller, PRWeek reported.  Shares Fall  Carnival  fell  14 percent to $29.60 at 4 p.m. in New York,
the biggest one-day drop since Sept. 17, 2001, when U.S. markets
reopened following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  Royal
Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) , the second-biggest cruise line, declined
6.2 percent to $26.97. U.S. markets were closed yesterday for
the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday.  Arison indirectly owns more than 110 million U.S. shares,
Carnival regulatory filings show. Today’s decline wiped about
$515 million off the holdings.  The Costa Concordia, owned and operated by Carnival’s Costa
Crociere SpA unit, was carrying more than 4,000 passengers and
crew when it struck rocks, ripping a hole through its hull.  “Airplanes sometimes fall out of the sky, but people still
fly,” said Petter Narvestad, an Oslo-based analyst at
Fondsfinans ASA, who recommends buying Royal Caribbean shares
and doesn’t rate Carnival. “The effects of Concordia are short-
term. There’s no threat to the cruise liners or the cruise
industry.”  ‘Constant Contact’  The company’s senior management “has been in constant
contact with the leadership of its Costa unit,” COO Frank said
in an e-mailed statement.  Pier Luigi Foschi, CEO of the Costa unit, said top group
executives may still come to the scene to help.  “ Carnival’s (CCL)  management has already offered to come here if
we believe it’s appropriate for them to come,” Foschi said at a
weekend press conference in Genoa. “We’ll decide together.”  Captain Francesco Schettino, who was granted house arrest
amid a criminal probe, may have steered the boat closer to
Giglio to give passengers a better view of the Tuscan island,
Foschi said. Carnival called the accident its worst ever.  Arison, who also owns the Miami Heat basketball team,
became Carnival’s CEO in 1979 and chairman in 1990. He has
expanded the company into the world’s biggest cruise group via
acquisitions of individual ships and ultimately entire cruise
lines -- including the biggest cruise merger -- while building
new vessels to accommodate thousands.  Arison’s Net Worth  His wealth has grown along with Carnival, which went from
$564 million in revenue in 1987 to $15.8 billion for the fiscal
year ended in November. He had a net worth of $4.2 billion last
year, according to  Forbes magazine , making him the 75th
wealthiest person in the Forbes 400 list of richest Americans.  “Our priority is the safety of our passengers and crew,”
Arison said in a statement. “We are deeply saddened by this
tragic event and our hearts go out to everyone affected by the
grounding of the Costa Concordia and especially to the families
and loved ones of those who lost their lives.”  Costa CEO Foschi today held a press conference near the
shipwreck scene in Giglio, where he met with some survivors and
rescue workers.  “Our ships are safe just as they were on Friday,” he
said. “It has nothing to do with security at sea nor does it
have anything to do with our policy, training or the quality of
our personnel.”  ‘Human Error’  During a weekend press conference, Foschi’s voice cracked
with emotion and eyes welled with tears as he described the
performance of the crew during the two-hour emergency
evacuation. He explained that the vessel’s route had been set
electronically before it left Civitavecchia, near  Rome .  “We can’t deny that there was a human error,” he said.
“The route had been properly programmed in Civitavecchia. The
fact that the ship strayed from that course can only be due to a
maneuver that was not approved, not authorized nor communicated
to Costa Crociere by the captain of the ship.”  Residents on Giglio said they fear an  oil spill  may worsen
the disaster.  Environmental Protection  “Inside it there are 2,500 tons of fuel, not 10 liters,”
said Michele Cavero, 67, a pensioner and a former head of oil
tank operations. “That would be an environmental disaster, we
have among the cleanest waters in the  Mediterranean Sea .”  Luca Milani, 38, is the owner of a building company on the
island.  “Giglio is a pearl of the Mediterranean and we are running
the risk of losing it,” he said. If the ship sinks further,
“Who’s going to pull the fuel out?”  Efforts to prevent fuel leaking into  Europe ’s biggest
marine park are under way. Smit Salvage, a unit of Royal
 Boskalis Westminster NV (BOKA) , has been contracted and is ready to
begin inspecting the ship as soon as tomorrow before removing
fuel and salvaging the wreck, executives said on a conference
call today.  Carnival’s maritime policy and compliance team are helping
to coordinate the environmental protection effort surrounding
the offloading the ship’s fuel and the preparation for salvage,
COO Frank said in his e-mail.  Peak Booking Time  Carnival estimated yesterday it would have to pay at least
$40 million in insurance deductibles following the wreck. It may
also face as much as $95 million in lost voyage earnings this
year without the use of Costa Concordia. The company further
“anticipates other costs to the business that are not possible
to determine at this time.”  Direct losses may be exacerbated by the disaster deterring
holidaymakers from booking cruises. About one-third of all
cruise vacations are arranged during the so-called wave season
from January to March, which is also the most profitable booking
period, said Sharon Zackfia, an analyst with William Blair & Co.
in  Chicago .  While Carnival has continued to advertise its cruises, it
won’t comment on whether the level of ad spending has changed.
Its other cruise lines, including Seabourn, Princess and Cunard,
are operating their regular schedules, the company said.  Safety Record  The international cruise-ship industry’s safety record is
better than aviation’s, said Peter Wild, a maritime consultant
whose company provides information on the industry to banks,
governments and cruise lines. Fatalities between 2005 and 2010
averaged less than 0.1 per million of passengers, compared with
0.3 fatalities per million passengers in aviation.  “Carnival is pretty much in line with the industry as a
whole, and has an excellent record,” Wild said. “The track
record of the industry speaks for itself, although it’s not to
say that human error can’t happen.”  In November 2010, an engine fire on the Carnival Splendor
stranded the cruise ship off the California and Mexican coasts
for days, with more than 4,400 passengers aboard.  Carnival raised $400 million in a 1987 initial public
offering, and continued its expansion via acquisitions. Arison
engineered the 1989  purchase  of Holland America Line, then
bought Cunard Line, Seabourn Cruise Line and Costa Cruises.  In April 2003, Arison merged Carnival’s six cruise lines
with P&O Princess Cruises, adding brands including Princess
Cruises, P&O Cruises and AIDA. He later expanded in  Spain  with
Iberocruceros.  Cruise Vacation Surge  He has benefited from a surge in cruise vacations. Global
cruise passenger numbers jumped to 14.8 million in 2010, from
3.8 million in 1980, according to data from the Cruise Lines
International Association, the biggest industry group.  Arison bought the  National Basketball Association ’s Miami
Heat in 1988 for $32.5 million. The franchise is worth $425
million, seventh among the league’s 30 teams, according to the
annual Forbes ranking. Today’s team features All Stars  LeBron James ,  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh , and entered this season
favored by oddsmakers to win the championship.  Arison was active in the recent offseason labor
negotiations during the lockout. He was fined $500,000 by the
NBA for a comment he made on his Twitter account about the
stalemate between the league and the players’ union.  The billionaire’s honors include the insignia of
“Onorificenza al Merito della Repubblica Italiana” presented
by  Italy ’s president, that country’s highest title for a
civilian; and “Officer of the French Legion of Honor” by then
French President,  Jacques Chirac , that country’s highest
civilian honor.  Costa Crociere  Europe generated about 38 percent of Carnival’s revenue in
fiscal 2010, the last full year for which  geographic results  are
available. Its Genoa-based Costa Crociere unit has 15 ships and
is the continent’s largest cruise line based on passengers and
ship capacity, according to Carnival.  Carnival’s bookings had been “strong” heading into the
wave season, Arison said in a Dec. 20 statement, with “slightly
higher prices with slightly lower occupancies.”  For the year ended in November, revenue rose 9.2 percent to
$15.8 billion, Carnival said on Dec. 20. The company projected
then that net income would rise to $2.55 to $2.85 a share this
year, adjusted for one-time items, from $2.42 in fiscal 2011.  The Concordia crash may damp Carnival’s operating results
this year, according to  Standard & Poor’s . The cruise company’s
BBB+ grade wasn’t affected by the crash, it said in a Jan. 15
note.  To retain customers in the long term following an accident
or other failing, companies should keep the public informed
quickly and accurately even as they face the challenge of
dealing with crisis situations, Ogilvy’s Hirsch said.  “It’s important to be honest with people about what you
know and what you don’t know,” he said. “You want to be able
to reassure them that it’s not going to happen again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  