-- Carney to Extend Canadian Record Interest-Rate Pause on Europe Debt Crisis
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-01-17T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/carney-to-extend-canadian-record-interest-rate-pause-on-europe-debt-crisis.html
Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
will probably extend a record period of unchanged  interest rates 
today to counter the economic risks posed by Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis.  The Ottawa-based bank’s benchmark target for overnight
loans between commercial banks will remain at 1 percent, where
it’s been since September 2010, in a decision due at 9 a.m. New
York time, according to all 26 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
News.  The pause is the longest since the central bank adopted the
 overnight target  as its policy rate in 1994, and longer than the
“conditional commitment” to hold it at 0.25 percent that
lasted from April 2009 to June 2010. Carney has focused on
Europe, the sluggish global recovery and Canadian households
constrained by record debts in recent statements, leading
economists to predict he may not raise rates until next year.  “This isn’t business as usual so the Bank of  Canada  will
take a very measured approach,” said David Madani, an economist
at  Capital Economics  in Toronto and a former senior economist at
the central bank. “As we move to the end of the second quarter
it will become clearer the Canadian economy is struggling” with
rising unemployment and sluggish exports, he said.  The  European Central Bank ,  Norway  and  Australia  cut
interest rates last month to stem the damage from slowing global
growth, and Canada’s six-month overnight index swap rate of
0.956 percent signals some investors are betting on a similar
move in the first half of this year.  Contain the Crisis  European leaders have spent two years struggling to stem
the crisis, and on Jan. 13  Standard & Poor’s  reduced the credit
ratings for nine of 17 European countries including France,
Italy and  Spain .  Carney, who was named chairman of the Financial Stability
Board in November, will hold a press conference tomorrow after
releasing a Monetary Policy Report with a detailed economic
growth forecast he may foreshadow today.  Canada’s gross domestic product growth will slow to 1.9
percent this year from 2.1 percent in 2011, the central bank
said in an October forecast.  “We haven’t seen anything yet that suggests there is going
to be a boom,” in the next few months of data, said Pedro Antunes, director of economic forecasting at the  Conference
Board of Canada  in Ottawa. “You don’t want to nip a recovery in
the bud and I think they are being very careful,” Antunes said.  Household debt rose to a record 153 percent of disposable
income in the third quarter as borrowing increased,  Statistics
Canada  said Dec. 13. The bank said last month consumer debt is
the main domestic risk to financial stability, and predicted the
burden will keep reaching records as income growth lags behind
borrowing.  Prolonged Softness  “We may well be entering a prolonged soft patch after
leveraging up so much of the household sector’s gains,” said
 Derek Holt ,  Scotia Capital ’s vice-president of economics in
Toronto.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who ended a two-year
government stimulus program, said last week he will consider new
initiatives if there is new major slowdown. On Nov. 8, Flaherty
pushed back his target for eliminating Canada’s deficit by a
year to 2015 because slower growth will erode revenue.  Some executives also say that the recovery may be curbed by
events abroad, including the U.S., which buys three-quarters of
Canada’s exports. RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based
data vendor, said Jan 12 that banks may seize more than 1
million U.S. homes this year, a 25 percent increase.  Not Immune  Canada’s consumers have been steady, Rogers Communications
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Nadir Mohamed said on a conference
call last month, adding “we’re not going to be immune to what’s
happening in the rest of the world,  Europe  and the U.S.”  Carney’s interest-rate freeze comes even as inflation
exceeds his 2 percent target.  Consumer prices  rose 2.9 percent
in November from a year earlier, Statistics Canada said Dec. 20.
The average monthly gain in consumer prices through November was
3 percent, on pace for the highest average pace since Canada
adopted inflation targets two decades ago.  The central bank predicts inflation will slow to 1 percent
by the middle of this year, and its mandate is to keep prices
advancing in the middle of a 1 percent to 3 percent range.  Carney has said he has “flexibility” in how quickly he
meets his inflation target during the recovery. His last speech
on Dec. 12 said events in the U.S. and Europe “mark a
rupture.”  “These are trying times,” he said. “As a result of
deleveraging, the global economy risks entering a prolonged
period of deficient demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  