-- Casino Owner’s Gingrich Gift Shreds Court’s Logic: Noah Feldman
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-01-17T00:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/casino-owner-gingrich-gift-shreds-court-logic-commentary-by-noah-feldman.html
For purely parochial reasons, I like
to keep tabs on Jewish boys from around  Boston  who have made
good. Stephen Greenblatt, the Shakespeare scholar and award-
winning author; Bobby Sager, the global philanthropist with a TV
show based on his adventures; Mike Bloomberg (you may have heard
of him); and now … Sheldon Adelson, the casino billionaire who
is bankrolling the Newt Gingrich campaign in South Carolina.  There’s nothing new about wealthy people getting involved
in politics.  George Soros  very publicly gave money to the
 Democratic Party  to beat  George W. Bush . The Koch brothers
finance a wide range of conservative political causes. And Mayor
Bloomberg has paid for his own campaigns. What is new -- indeed,
perhaps unprecedented in the era since electoral reform took
root in the U.S. -- is a single magnate in effect keeping alive
a candidate who is not either himself or a close family member.  This new twist on plutocracy is the direct result of the
 Supreme Court ’s decision in the  Citizens United case . After the
2010 decision, we all knew that corporations would be allowed to
make unlimited donations to organizations that spend money
“independently” of political campaigns. But only a few close
observers noticed that, in justifying its decision, the Supreme
Court also said that there was no danger of “the appearance of
corruption” so long as expenditures were independent of the
campaign.  Perceptions of Corruption  This was the loophole to end all loopholes. The Supreme
Court was putting its legal holding in the form of an empirical
claim about the way people’s perceptions of corruption work. It
followed that not only corporations but individuals could make
unlimited contributions to what have come to be called super-
PACs without creating a legally cognizable appearance of
corruption.  The Supreme Court is infallible -- because, as Justice
Robert H. Jackson famously said, its word is final. If you or I
say something is true that later turns out to be false, we are
just wrong. When the Supreme Court is wrong about the way the
world works, the world has to change to accommodate it, not the
other way around.  What, after all, does political corruption mean? Presumably
that money spent on a candidate’s behalf will lead to undue
influence being granted to the donor. It is literally
inconceivable that  Sheldon Adelson ’s expenditures to  Gingrich’s
super-PAC  would not give him undue influence in the highly
unlikely event that Gingrich is ever elected to anything. Does
anyone really believe that a highly successful businessman
deeply committed to a range of public issues would spend $5
million out of sheer friendship? To believe this would be to
believe in “I love you, man” democracy.  As for the appearance of corruption, it is particularly
extraordinary that Adelson’s contribution was touted by the
Gingrich campaign and heavily covered by the press. Gingrich
wanted the public to know that someone rich was still committed
to his campaign, and that he would, as a result, be able to buy
significant advertising time in  South Carolina . In this sense,
appearance was everything.  Yes, Gingrich might point to other one-horse super-PACs,
such as that funded by  Jon Huntsman ’s father. But when it comes
to “appearances,” we assume that a person’s close family members
want the best for him altruistically -- and already have a great
deal of influence on the candidate. As with self-funded
campaigns, we admit that wealth is having a major influence; but
we console ourselves that the wealth is not corrupting in the
ordinary sense of the word. In theory, at least, I can’t buy
myself.  Fake Independence  Yet the way the Gingrich campaign highlighted Adelson’s
donation also should demonstrate once and for all how
preposterous it is to think that super-PAC expenditures are
independent. In trumpeting Abelson’s donation, Gingrich did
everything he could to give the impression that it was to be
seen as part of his campaign, not independent of it.  There is no mystery to how coordination works between a
candidate’s operation and supposedly independent operators. In
the thick of the campaign, any super-PAC worthy of the name can
just observe the ad-buys of the official campaign and act
accordingly. It can listen to the candidate’s public statements
about his strategy, then implement. Independence under these
circumstances is not a myth -- it is a lie.  The question thus is not whether PACs have unseemly
influence, but whether anyone cares if the public understands
that, under the new rules, rich people can buy candidates? It
depends whether we think of elections as a game, complete with
play-by-play and color analysis, or whether we are naive and
idealistic enough to think that elections play a crucial role in
making the exercise of public power legitimate in the eyes of
the voters.  There’s little doubt on which side of this divide the news
media lies. Press coverage of the Adelson donation barely raised
an eyebrow about the structure of the deal. The most daring
coverage commented that the source of Adelson’s wealth --
gambling venues in  Las Vegas  and elsewhere -- might trouble some
values voters in South Carolina. No one in the mainstream press,
or no one that I could find, asked what might be in it for
Adelson down the road.  Not everyone has gone this far. Late last year, the Montana
Supreme Court upheld a century-old state law  banning political
contributions  by corporations. The law is a relic of progressive
reformers’ efforts to defeat the old plutocracy, in which copper
barons more or less ran the affairs of the mining state. The bad
old days are not quite back yet. But then, the Supreme Court
still hasn’t gotten its hands on the Montana decision.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 