-- Caviar Martinis Beat White Wine as Restaurants Revive Aperitifs
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-01-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/caviar-martinis-trump-chardonnay-as-diners-down-aperitifs-john-mariani.html
Years ago a glass of chilled white
as an aperitif was one of the defining marks of a yuppie, along
with Ralph Lauren polo shirts and a 300-series  BMW. (BMW)  Over time,
the wines got better, with sauvignon blancs, rieslings,
malvasias and viogniers joining the California chardonnay and
Italian pinot grigio.  As cocktail culture made a comeback in the 1990s, with
myriad martinis, cosmos, and margaritas in vogue, the idea of
sipping a glass of wine other than champagne as an aperitif now
seems almost quaint.  I have nothing against drinking a white wine that really
does stir the appetite, like a spicy gewurztraminer, a tangy
riesling, or an aromatic moscato. The French wine aperitif
Lillet is made from white wine, with the addition of 14 percent
macerated liqueurs made from orange peel and quinine.  Champagne, of course, has the virtue of bubbles that tingle
on the tongue and throat, much as seltzer does in a cocktail.
Adding orange juice (a mimosa) or cassis (Kir royale) improves
the prospects before dinner.  “We only have very few white wines by the glass,” says
Alexandre Petrossian, manager of Petrossian Restaurant in  New
York . “The dryness of the wine puts the palate to sleep and
doesn’t go well with our caviar.”  Caviar Martini  The only white he recommends is a Pouilly-Fume, whose
smokiness helps bind together the flavors. Still, half the
guests order Champagne. As an alternative, Petrossian said he
serves a Caviar Martini made with a cube of pressed caviar in a
glass of very, very cold Russian vodka with cucumber. “Men
first order it and when the women taste it, they order one
too.”  At the Hemingway Bar at the  Paris Ritz , longtime bartender
Colin Field says white wine was often the answer when few staff
had cocktail-making skills. Now, with the growing excellence of
U.S. barstaff and many French employees attending up to three
years of hotel-school training, “it would be a shame not to
take advantage of the growing talent of bartenders around the
world.”  The most popular drink at the Hemingway Bar these days is
the Raspberry Martini, made with a maceration of fresh
raspberries left in vodka over 3 months, then filtered, frozen
and served in a chilled Martini glass.  The word “aperitif,” dating in English to 1894
(“cocktail” appears a century earlier) is from French, meaning
to “open up,” specifically to awaken the palate for the meal
to come.  Wine, white or red, can do that -- some enophiles even
insist it’s liquor that dulls the palate -- but they don’t call
a cocktail a pick-me-up for nothing.  Bitter-Sweet  The idea of adding bitters to a drink was in fact designed
to spur the appetite, and bitter/sweet liquors like vermouth,
Cynar and Campari are the bases for drinks like the negroni and
americano.  “In  Italy  having a cocktail is a ritual necessary to a
civilized meal,” says Pino Luongo, owner of the New York
Italian restaurant Morso. “The French and Italians invented the
aperitif. A little sweetness, a little acid, maybe some fizz
from prosecco; it is extremely pleasant to the palate and very
refreshing.”  In  New Orleans , cocktail culture has been in full swing
since the early 19th century.  “New Orleans is a Southern town with a reverence for
rituals,” says Chris Ycaza, general manager of Galatoire’s
(opened 1905). “So jumping into dinner without a proper
cocktail here is like entering an athletic competition without
doing the proper calisthenics.”  Brandy Punch  At Galatoire’s the favorite cocktail is a sazerac, for
Sunday brunch, a brandy-milk punch.  My own drink of choice before dinner is a daiquiri, a mix
of rum, lime juice, and sugar, concocted just after the Spanish-
American War by Jennings S. Cox, chief engineer of the Daiquiri
iron mines in the town of Daiquiri, Cuba.  By 1920 F. Scott Fitzgerald made it the rage drink among flappers in his novel
“This Side of Paradise.”  Since so many young bartenders these days haven’t a clue
how to make one, the recipe is printed on the back of my
business card. Try putting your own on your card. You’re pretty
much guaranteed a good aperitif.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 