-- China’s Stocks Rally by Most Since 2009 on Government Support Speculation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-17T07:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/china-s-stocks-rally-by-most-since-2009-on-government-support-speculation.html
China’s stocks  rose, sending the
benchmark index up by the most since October 2009, as slowing
economic growth boosted expectations for monetary easing and
speculation grew the government will support equities.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362)  and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. both
jumped by the 10 percent daily limit. Citic Securities Co., the
nation’s biggest brokerage, surged 6.9 percent after the China
Securities Journal said the nation’s local pension funds may
start investing in domestic stocks this quarter. Gross domestic
product rose 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said in Beijing today.  “There’s speculation the government will ease monetary
policies such as cutting the reserve requirement ratio,” said
Dai Ming, a  fund manager  at Shanghai Kingsun Investment
Management & Consulting Co. “There are also high expectations
that more direct measures to support stocks will be unveiled.”  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 92.18, or
4.2 percent, to 2,298.38 at the 3 p.m. local-time close. Ten-day
 volatility  on the index rose to the highest level today since
November 2010, after the gauge rose or fell by more than 1.3
percent on six of the 10 trading days this year. The  CSI 300
Index  climbed 4.9 percent to 2,460.60 today.  Economic growth was below 9 percent for the first time
since mid-2009, based on previously reported data, and compared
with the 8.7 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of 26 economists. Full-year economic growth slowed to 9.2
percent from 10.4 percent in 2010, today’s report showed.  ‘Policy Easing’  Industrial production in December increased 12.8 percent
from a year earlier, it said, compared with the median estimate
of 12.3 percent in a Bloomberg survey and a 12.4 percent
increase in November.  “There’s a bias in  China  right now for more policy
easing,” said Andrew Pease, Sydney-based chief investment
strategist for the Asia-Pacific region at Russell Investment
Group, which manages $150 billion  A  gauge  tracking materials producers rose 8.4 percent on
the CSI 300, the most among the 10 industry groups and the
biggest gain since April 2008. Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest
producer of the metal, climbed 10 percent to 24.87 yuan.
 Aluminum Corp. of China  rallied 10 percent to 7.32 yuan.  China’s  National Social Security Fund  has won approval to
invest 100 billion yuan ($15.8 billion) from local pensions in
stocks and bonds, the China Securities Journal reported today.  Stock Investments  The investment will add to about 800 billion yuan of
capital currently managed by the pension fund, the newspaper
reported, without saying where it got the information. Almost 30
to 40 percent of the new funds provided by an unidentified
southern province will probably be invested in stocks, according
to the report.  Brokerages rallied. Citic Securities, the nation’s biggest,
advanced 6.9 percent to 10.51 yuan.  Haitong Securities Co. (600837) 
climbed 6.7 percent to 8.15 yuan.  China’s securities regulator said last week it will
“actively” push pension and housing funds to begin investing
in  capital markets , and encourage long-term investors such as
insurers and corporate pension plans to buy more shares  Stocks were also buoyed after Shanghai signaled it would
delay its international board. The timing isn’t right to start
the board allowing foreign issuers to sell shares in the city,
Mayor  Han Zheng  said yesterday. Shanghai will instead start an
over-the-counter exchange soon, he said.  Two-Year Loss  The Shanghai Composite was the worst performer among the
world’s 15 biggest markets in the two years through 2011 with a
33 percent drop. The Shanghai index  trades  at 9.4 times
estimated earnings, near the record low of 8.9 times reached on
Jan. 6, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission gave approval
for 14 foreign investors to receive licenses for investing in
yuan-denominated stocks and bonds under the Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investor scheme, according to a list on the
regulator’s website yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite rallied 6.4 percent in the three
days through Jan. 10, the most for such a period since October
2010, as Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for measures to support
stocks. Wen said initial public offerings should be reformed and
dividend payouts boosted, the Shanghai Securities News reported
last week.  The Shanghai Composite fell 3.5 percent in the past four
days, paring this year’s gain to 0.3 percent, as speculation
waned that the central bank would cut reserve ratios for banks
before Lunar New Year holidays next week and after  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the ratings of nine euro-region nations.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
said inflation would hamper the government’s ability to ease
monetary policy. China’s inflation may rebound because of rising
wages, land costs and “imported” inflationary pressure,  Ma
Jiantang , head of the National Bureau of Statistics, wrote in a
commentary published in Qiushi magazine.  China relaxed lenders’ reserve  requirements  in December for
the first time since 2008 as inflation slowed to a 15-month low
and exports gained the least in two years amid  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Chan Tien Hin  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  