-- China’s Money-Market Rate Jumps to Six-Month High Before New Year Holiday
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-01-17T08:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/china-swaps-fall-on-speculation-banks-reserve-ratios-to-be-cut.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
jumped to a six-month high as a cash squeeze deepened ahead of
next week’s Lunar New Year holiday, prompting the central bank
to inject funds into the banking system.  The People’s Bank of China injected 169 billion yuan ($26.8
billion) into the financial system via 14-day reverse-repurchase
contracts at 5.47 percent today, according to a statement posted
on its website.  China’s economy  grew 8.9 percent from a year
earlier in the three months through December, official data
showed today, more than the 8.7 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Liquidity is usually tight ahead of the new year and,
especially given the more dovish PBOC stance, a near-term cut in
the reserve ratio wouldn’t be a surprise,” said  Frances Cheung ,
a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, increased 98 basis points,
or 0.98 percentage points, to 7.15 percent in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. That was the highest since July 6.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the repo rate, rose four basis points to 3.14 percent in
Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
the 3.93 percent government bonds due August 2021 added one
basis point to 3.42 percent.  The central bank in December relaxed lenders’ reserve
requirements for the first time since 2008, supporting the
economy as  Europe ’s debt crisis dimmed the outlook for exports.
The Lunar New Year holiday runs from Jan. 23 to Jan. 27.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  