-- China Home Sales Rise at Slowest Pace in Three Years on Government Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-17T03:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/china-home-sales-rise-at-slowest-pace-in-three-years-on-government-curbs.html
China’s 2011 home sales rose at the
slowest pace in three years after the country extended measures
and added home-purchase restrictions to control the risks of a
property bubble.  Housing transactions  climbed 10 percent to 4.86 trillion
yuan ($770 billion), according to the National Bureau of
Statistics today. Transactions in December totaled 803.8 billion
yuan.  “The property industry visibly slowed down quickly in the
fourth quarter,” said Alan Jin, a Hong Kong-based property
analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., who expects the data to
worsen in the next two quarters because “developers are already
short of capital.”  China’s residential values fell for a fourth month in
December, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  The government said
last month at an annual economic planning meeting that it won’t
back away from real-estate industry curbs this year that are
damping home sales and pulling down prices.  The economy expanded by 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter,
while full-year gross domestic product rose 9.2  percent, the 
statistics bureau also said today.  Investments (CNFARSDV)  in homes, office buildings, shopping malls and
other types of real estate increased 28 percent to 6.17 trillion
yuan last year, according to the data. That slowed from a gain of
33 percent in 2010. New property construction climbed 16 percent 
to 1.9 billion square meters (20.4 billion square feet).  Worsening Market  China ’s property market may worsen this year as the
government maintains its housing curbs, said Jinsong Du, a Hong
Kong-based property analyst for Credit Suisse Group AG.  Mayors of Beijing and Shanghai both pledged to control the
cities’ property prices earlier this month.  The government may only consider easing measures in the
housing market after the National Peoples’ Congress in March,
 Michael Klibaner , head of China research at Jones Lang LaSalle 
Inc., said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Shanghai today.
UBS AG said last week that China may ease property curbs as early as
the mid-year to prevent a collapse of the housing market as the
measures may boost supply to the highest in a decade.  Home sales volume  rose 3.9 percent last year from 2010 to
970.3 million square meters, according to the data.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  