-- China Property Enters Consolidation Period After ‘Golden Era’, Citi Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-01-17T01:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/china-property-enters-consolidation-period-after-golden-era-citi-says.html
Chinese developers  entered an era
where success depends on having high-quality properties with
“strong recurring income” rather than a high-volume
residential business model, Citigroup Inc. said.  Developers have to convince the market of their ability to
sustain growth, maintain a healthy financial position, and
weather policy and counter-cycle risks, analysts led by Oscar
Choi wrote in a report dated yesterday.  China ’s home prices fell for a fourth month in December
after the government reiterated plans to maintain curbs that
include higher down-payment and mortgage requirements, according
to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  Housing values dropped in 60 out of 100
cities tracked by the nation’s biggest real-estate website
owner, including the 10 largest cities such as  Shanghai  and
Beijing.  “The story has entered a new chapter,” the analysts
wrote. China’s property market in September entered what will
probably be a consolidation period of three to five years after
a “golden era” in the past decade, they said.  Policies regulating home prices are no longer the only
dominant factors affecting developers, the analysts wrote.  Retail and hotel properties would benefit from rising
domestic consumption and travelers in the country, the analysts
said, adding that offices is their “least preferred”
commercial properties because of their “vulnerability to the
uncertainties of the global economy.”  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  and  Hang Lung Properties Ltd., (101) 
the biggest and third-biggest developers in  Hong Kong , Shangri-
La Asia Ltd., a Hong Kong-based hotel operator, China Resources
Land Ltd. and Franshion Development Ltd., are the real estate
companies with “leading fundamentals in the space,” they said.  The government has reiterated it won’t back away from real-
estate industry curbs, while the financial center of Shanghai
and the capital of Beijing are among Chinese cities that have
said they will continue to impose home purchase restrictions
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  