-- China Construction Bank, Agricultural Bank Appoint New Heads
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-17T03:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/china-construction-bank-agricultural-bank-appoint-new-heads.html
China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the
world’s second-largest lender by market value, and  Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd . appointed new chiefs, replacing executives
who moved to head the nation’s financial regulators last year.  Construction Bank named Wang Hongzhang, while Beijing-based
Agricultural Bank elected Jiang Chaoliang after winning
shareholders’ approval, according to separate statements to the
Hong Kong Stock Exchange yesterday. The appointments are
effective immediately, the statements showed.  China in October began the biggest reshuffle of financial
officials in a decade, triggered by the retirement of its top
banking and insurance regulators. Shang Fulin was named to helm
the China Banking Regulatory Commission and oversee  lenders  that
include four of the world’s 10 largest by market value,
preceding the leadership change at  China ’s Communist Party
toward the end of 2012.  “The government’s aim this year is to stabilize growth,
which means no drastic changes to economic policies,” said Luo Yi, a Shenzhen-based analyst at China Merchants Securities Co.
“The management changes at the banks won’t lead to any major
shift in their strategy because it’s the central government that
sets the tone for the industry’s development.”  China’s  economy  grew 8.9 percent in the last three months
of 2011, the slowest pace since the second quarter of 2001, the
statistics bureau said today. The nation’s banks may advance as
much as 8.5 trillion yuan ($1.35 trillion) of  new loans  this
year, a 14 percent increase from a year earlier, Luo estimated.  Capital Markets Head  Wang, 57, previously held positions at  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and was the chief disciplinary
officer at the central bank from 2003, according to Construction
Bank. He replaces Guo Shuqing, who was appointed chairman of the
China Securities Regulatory Commission in October.  Construction Bank, based in Beijing, also hired Zhu Hongbo,
formerly vice president at smaller rival Agricultural Bank, as
its vice president, according to yesterday’s statement.  Agricultural Bank’s Jiang, 54, was previously a director of
the general planning department and a general manager of the
international business department at the Chinese lender, and has
held positions at the central bank, the company’s statement
showed. He was the president of China Development Bank Corp. in
2008 and chairman of Shanghai-based Bank of Communications Co.
prior to that. Jiang replaces Xiang Junbo, who is now chairman
of the China Insurance Regulatory Commission.  China’s five biggest banks should pace growth and
“gradually” ease risks in 2012, the banking regulator  said  on
Jan. 13.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  