-- China’s Quarterly Growth Far From ‘Hard Landing,’ Goldman’s O’Neill Says
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-01-17T20:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/china-s-quarterly-growth-far-from-hard-landing-goldman-s-o-neill-says.html
Jim O’Neill , the economist who
coined the term BRIC a decade ago, said  China ’s fourth-quarter
growth rate, while the slowest in more than two years, was
stronger than many analysts had forecast and was a “blow” to
those predicting a “hard landing” for the nation’s economy.  China’s economy  grew 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter from
a year earlier, the statistics bureau said yesterday in Beijing.
That exceeded the 8.7 percent median estimate of 26 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and is above the 8 percent that
signals a “soft landing” for China, according to SinoPac
Financial Holdings Co.  O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack” with
 Erik Schatzker  that if China grew at an annual rate of 7.5
percent this decade, as he forecast, it would contribute more to
world growth in dollar terms than the U.S. and  Europe  combined.  “It’s the most important thing in the world,” said
O’Neill, who last month published his new book, “The Growth
Map,” with predictions of “rosy prospects” for the BRIC
nations of Brazil, Russia, India and China and other developing
markets. “Some democracy a la Chinese style is going to
emerge,” he said. “They want more freedom but they really want
more wealth.”  Overheated Market  One of China’s key economic challenges is its overheated
property market. Yet China’s policy makers, by tightening
monetary policy, managed to stem the property bubble, O’Neill
said, something Western policy makers had failed to do before
the subprime property meltdown that began in the U.S. in the
middle of the last decade.  “China’s property prices have turned because Chinese
authorities have deliberately stopped them,” he said. O’Neill
said China’s authorities were raising wages to boost the
domestic economy and move away from its dependence on exports,
while seeking to address international concerns that its yuan
currency is undervalued.  “There are two ways of dealing with  exchange-rate  issues,
one is moving the nominal exchange rate; the second is to raise
your prices and wages higher than everybody else, and the
Chinese are deliberately doing that with wages,” he said.  The yuan traded at 6.3150 yesterday, compared with 6.3165
Jan. 16, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The People’s Bank of China set the yuan’s reference rate 0.09
percent stronger at 6.3250. It is allowed to trade 0.5 percent
on either side of the daily fixing.  Greek Concerns  Regarding concerns that Greece may default, O’Neill said
China’s economy generates the equivalent of Greek gross domestic
product every four months. “Greece itself is not that
important,” he said. “What is important,” according to
O’Neill, is “how  Greece  deals with the restructuring or a
default, which seems quite possible, and the contagion of that
through the rest of Europe is extremely important.”  O’Neill said European markets had “sort of” shrugged off
last week’s Standard & Poor’s downgrade of France and eight
other European countries. He said it wasn’t clear whether that
was because people perceived the  European Central Bank  is
“going to be doing more and more” or there are “some signs of
some stabilizing in the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  