-- Christie Calls for 10% Income-Tax Cut for N.J.
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-17T22:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/christie-calls-for-10-income-tax-cut-for-n-j-.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
proposed reducing income-tax rates for every state resident by
10 percent to provide relief from the “burden that has
strangled our families and forced many to move away.”  “Today, because we have put our fiscal house in order, we
can budget for our priorities and give tax relief to all of our
people,” Christie, a first-term Republican, said during his
State of the State speech. “Tax relief that will lead to better
lives for our citizens and more jobs for our state.”  Christie, 49, didn’t say how he would pay for the tax cut.
The governor said the  budget  he submits next month “will be
truly balanced,” and that the state needs to continue to “hold
the line on spending.”  The tax cut would be phased in over three years, beginning
in January 2013, according to a statement from Christie’s
office. The new rates would make New Jersey more competitive and
“lift the burden on small businesses and entrepreneurship,”
Christie said.  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for Christie, said the cost of
the income-tax cut, and how the governor will pay for it, will
be part of his budget address.  Christie also said he will seek to restore an earned
income-tax credit for New Jersey’s working poor, which he said
he was forced to cut in 2010 “when growth was gone and we had
no money.” The reinstatement would take effect on Jan. 1, 2013.  California, New York  Christie’s budget for fiscal 2012, which ends June 30,
 forecast  revenue from the income tax of $11.1 billion. A 10
percent cut of that amount would cost $1.1 billion.  While other states, including California and  Illinois , are
raising taxes, New Jersey is choosing “responsible tax cuts to
give our overburdened citizens real relief,” Christie said.  Christie has twice vetoed measures sponsored by Democrats
that would have raised income taxes on residents earning $1
million or more. Democrats control both houses of the
Legislature.  If New Jersey enacted the tax overhaul put into law last
month by New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo , every person earning
less than $100,000 a year would face a tax increase of 150
percent to 200 percent, while those earning more than $1 million
would get a tax cut, Christie said.  “Is that what we want?” Christie said. “Is that
fairness?”  Josh Vlasto , a spokesman for Cuomo, a first-term Democrat,
didn’t immediately respond to a call and e-mail requesting
comment on Christie’s speech.  Tax Rates  New Jersey’s income-tax rate ranges from 1.4 percent for
residents earning $20,000 a year or less, to 8.97 percent for
those earning $500,000 or more,  according  to the treasury
department. The state had the seventh-highest state income-tax
burden in a ranking of 2010 collections per capita by the
Washington-based  Tax Foundation .  Democratic lawmakers said Christie’s tax cut would favor
the wealthy. While a person making $50,000 would get an $80
break under the governor’s plan, someone earning $1 million
would save $7,200, said Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a
Democrat from  East Orange .  “This is a B.S. tax cut,” Senate President  Stephen
Sweeney , a Democrat from West Deptford, told reporters after the
speech. “This is another windfall for multi-millionaires at the
expense of schools, because that’s where the money comes from
when you cut taxes.”  Democrats said they will seek to protect lower and middle-
class taxpayers. Millionaires are “a protected class” under
Christie, Sweeney said.  Democrats Push Back  Sweeney and other Democratic leaders have vowed to fight
harder against Christie, who is halfway through his first term
with near-record approval ratings. Democrats’ 2012 priorities
are passage of a so-called millionaire’s tax, same-sex marriage
and an increase in the minimum wage, Sweeney and Oliver said.  Even with Democrats hardening their opposition, Christie
has remained popular in New Jersey and with Republicans out of
state. He had 56 percent approval among voters in a Nov. 16
Quinnipiac University poll and has been campaigning for
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  in  Iowa  and  New Hampshire 
after spurning his own White House bid last year.  Christie, who was initially scheduled to make his State of
the State address on Jan. 10, postponed the speech after
Assembly Minority Leader Alex DeCroce collapsed and died in the
Statehouse.  A year ago, Christie used his first State of the State
speech to urge lawmakers to “do the big things,” which he said
were maintaining fiscal discipline, overhauling public education
and reducing the costs of pensions and benefits.  Education Overhaul  While Christie has won passage of measures to raise public
workers’ costs for pensions and benefits and put a 2 percent cap
on property-tax growth, other proposals, including an education
overhaul and an end to employee payouts for unused sick time,
have stalled.  Christie, after calling 2011 “the year of education
reform,” was unable to win passage of measures to offer
privately funded vouchers to students from poor families,
institute merit pay for teachers and make it easier for
administrators to fire educators deemed to be inadequate. During
today’s speech, Christie again urged lawmakers to pass those
proposals, saying education was a top priority for 2012.  “These are not radical reforms; they are common sense,”
Christie said. “They are not rash; they are long overdue.”  Christie said his third priority for 2012 is to “reclaim
our inner cities, respond to underserved regions and engage our
most vulnerable citizens.”  The governor asked lawmakers to amend the state’s bail laws
to keep the most violent offenders off the streets, by keeping
them in jail until their trials. At the same time, drug
offenders who haven’t committed a violent crime should be given
treatment, not prison, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  