-- Citigroup Traders Bansal, Yanney Exit as Pandit Cuts Staff
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-01-17T19:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/citigroup-debt-traders-bansal-yanney-exit-firm-as-pandit-pares-workforce.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, shuffled its North American credit-trading
desk, causing two senior traders to depart as the firm reduces
staff, people familiar with the matter said.  Rohit Bansal, who led distressed-debt trading, and high-
yield bond trading boss Chris Yanney have left the New York-
based bank, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the matter is private. Scott Balkan, who ran investment-
grade bond trading, replaces Bansal while head of loan trading
James Nessel takes Yanney’s duties, the people said.  A job-cutting plan may eliminate about 5,000 positions, the
bank said today, after Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit 
predicted in December that 4,500 workers may go. The company
reported fourth-quarter profit today that missed analysts’
estimates, as revenue from bond trading fell 57 percent from the
third quarter, including so-called credit-valuation accounting
adjustments.  “The financial-services industry faces an extremely
challenging operating environment,” Pandit, 55, said last month
when announcing reductions. “It’s a combination of market
uncertainties, sustained economic weakness in the developed
economies, and as well, the most substantial regulatory changes
we’ve seen in our lifetime.”  Citigroup fell 7.2 percent to $28.54 at 2:40 p.m. in  New
York , the worst performance in the 24-company KBW Bank Index.
The stock had climbed 17 percent this year through last week.  “We continued to experience pressure in credit and
securitized products in the fourth quarter,” Chief Financial
Officer  John Gerspach  said today on a call with analysts.  Goldman,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Alums  Citigroup eliminated about 95 jobs in its markets business
in  London  last month, two people with knowledge of the plan said
at the time. The cuts occurred Dec. 8 in fixed income,
currencies, rates and commodities, as well as equities, the
people said.  “As part of our ongoing efforts to control expenses, we
are making targeted headcount reductions in certain businesses
and functions across Citi,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a
spokeswoman for the bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  Bansal joined Citigroup in 1999, left for  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  in 2005 and returned in 2008, according to Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority records. Yanney joined Citigroup
from Morgan Stanley in July 2010, the records show. He
previously worked for  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Goldman Sachs.  Balkan will be succeeded as head of investment-grade bond
trading by David Cohen, a Citigroup trader, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  