-- Citi Reports Second 70% Drop in Equities Trading
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-01-17T17:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/citigroup-reports-second-straight-drop-of-70-in-equities-trading-revenue.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the  U.S. bank  led by
a former equities-trading chief, said revenue from that business
dropped more than 70 percent for the second straight quarter.  Stock-trading revenue fell to $232 million in the fourth
quarter from $808 million a year earlier, excluding so-called
credit valuation accounting adjustments, New York-based
Citigroup  said  today. It declined to $289 million in the third
quarter from $1.06 billion a year earlier.  The slump pushed Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit , further behind competitors. The bank generated
less than 30 percent of the equities revenue  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase &
Co. produced in each of the past two quarters, after reporting
at least two-thirds as much in the previous six periods. Pandit,
55, was the former head of equities at  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   “Sometimes when you underperformed, it’s just because you
underperformed,” Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said on
a conference call with journalists. “The decline year over year
in equity derivatives is partly from the markets but it also
reflects a certain amount of underperformance on our part. That
is an area where we are focused on improving.”  The result missed the expectations of analysts including
JMP Securities LLC’s  David Trone , who predicted $571 million in
revenue for the quarter. Richard Staite, a London-based analyst
with Atlantic Equities LLP, had estimated $700 million, while
Credit Suisse Group AG’s Moshe Orenbuch predicted $475 million.  Derivatives Business  Citigroup’s annual equities-trading revenue plunged by $1.3
billion to $2.4 billion, mostly from the bank’s equity
derivatives and proprietary-trading units, Gerspach said.  Half of the annual revenue decline, about $600 million,
came in the equity-derivatives unit, which trades in contracts
whose values are derived from underlying equities, according to
Gerspach. The decline was driven in part by “difficult market
conditions” which also hurt the firm’s cash-equities business,
the bank said.  “I wouldn’t characterize the entirety of equity-
derivatives reduction in revenue as being performance driven,
clearly the markets have got some level of impact on it,”
Gerspach said. “There’s clearly some impact of underperformance
when you take a look at a $600 million revenue drop year over
year.”  Gerspach attributed the other half of the decline to the
Equity Principal Strategies unit, which buys and sells stock
with shareholders’ money, known as proprietary trading. The bank
is shutting the business as regulators draft the Volcker rule,
which restricts the practice. The head of the unit, Sutesh Sharma, intends to leave and start a hedge fund, two people
familiar with the matter said in August.  Derek Bandeen  Derek Bandeen, who leads the equities unit, last year
promoted Mike Pringle to head trading and Adrian Faure to become
global head of  emerging markets  in an attempt to earn more from
growing markets abroad. Bandeen also hired former Citadel LLC
senior executive Brad Kurtzman in April to lead U.S. equity-
derivatives trading.  While the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 11 percent in
the quarter, the biggest jump in more than two years, average
daily  volume  on major U.S. exchanges dropped 15 percent from the
third quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  