-- Citi Declines After Earnings Fall 11%
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-01-17T21:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/citigroup-quarterly-profit-unexpectedly-declines-as-trading-revenue-slumps.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank  by assets, dropped 8.2 percent in New York trading
after the bank reported an unexpected fall in fourth-quarter
earnings on a slump in trading revenue.  The shares fell $2.53 to $28.22 at 4:15 p.m. in New York,
the biggest decline on the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  Fourth-
quarter net income dropped 11 percent, missing analysts’
 estimates  for an increase, to $1.17 billion, or 38 cents a
share, from $1.31 billion, or 43 cents, a year earlier, the New
York-based company said today in a statement.  Trading declines mirrored results at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
which said last week that revenue in every investment-banking
business fell from a year earlier. Citigroup’s earnings slump
capped a year for Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, in
which the shares slid 44 percent amid concern troubled European
countries would default. The bank said today it would eliminate
5,000 employees, with about 25 percent coming from the
securities and banking business, and cut expenses by as much as
$3 billion this year.  “The capital-markets business is weak and Citi still has a
problem controlling expenses,” said  Thomas Brown , chief
executive officer of Second Curve Capital LLC and a Bloomberg
contributing editor, in an interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop.”  Analysts’ Survey  Profit adjusted for one-time items was expected to be 51
cents a share, the average estimate of 22 analysts in a
 Bloomberg survey .  Wells Fargo & Co ., the fourth-biggest bank by assets,
posted a 20 percent increase in fourth-quarter profit, to $4.11
billion, that beat analysts’ estimates on gains from mortgage
financing. The San Francisco-based bank’s shares climbed 0.7
percent.  “When you look at Wells Fargo versus Citi, you’re seeing a
contrast in two different companies, one good, one bad,”
 Matthew McCormick , a  money manager  at Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which
oversees about $5.1 billion, said in an interview with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.” He doesn’t see “a balmy future” for Citigroup “and
thus I have to advise shareholders to avoid their shares.”  Higher Expenses  Citigroup’s revenue fell 7 percent to $17.2 billion from a
year earlier, the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2009. In
addition to the slump in trading, revenue also declined as the
company sold off unwanted assets. Expenses climbed 4 percent to
$12.9 billion as Pandit continued to invest in the bank’s
emerging-markets businesses.  For the year, Citigroup’s earnings rose 6.4 percent to
$11.3 billion, marking the second profitable year for Pandit,
who became CEO in December 2007. Citigroup lost a total of $29.3
billion in 2008 and 2009 and took a $45 billion bailout from
U.S. taxpayers, which the company later repaid.  Financial institutions are eliminating jobs to compensate
for falling revenue, disclosing plans to reduce staff by more
than 200,000 worldwide, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Citigroup had said last month job cuts would total about 4,500.  “The macro environment has impacted the  capital markets 
and we will continue to right-size our businesses to match the
environment,” Pandit said in today’s statement.  Trading Revenue  Revenue from trading stocks and bonds, overseen by James “Jamie” Forese, fell 9.8 percent, including accounting
adjustments, from the same period in 2010. The European crisis
hurt Citigroup’s trading unit as customers took fewer risks with
their money, according to  Jason Goldberg , a New York-based
analyst with Barclays Plc who has an “overweight/positive”
rating on the bank’s shares.  Revenue from bond trading rose 10 percent from the year-
earlier quarter to $1.63 billion, and dropped 57 percent from
the third quarter, including so-called credit-valuation
accounting adjustments. JMP Securities LLC analyst  David Trone ,
who has a “market perform” rating on Citigroup shares,
predicted bond-trading revenue of $3.04 billion.  Excluding accounting adjustments, fixed-income revenue
dropped 25 percent from the previous year, the bank said.  “Investors are sitting on the sidelines awaiting EU crisis
resolution,” Trone wrote in a Dec. 16 note to clients. “We
don’t believe EU leaders are under enough short-term pressure to
resolve the crisis anytime soon, and until it changes capital-
markets results and stocks should remain stagnant.”  Derek Bandeen  Citigroup’s equity-trading unit, run from  London  by Derek Bandeen, posted revenue of $240 million, a 62 percent decline
compared with the prior quarter and down 60 percent from the
fourth quarter of 2010. Trone had predicted $571 million.  Excluding accounting adjustments,  stock-trading revenue 
tumbled 71 percent from the same period a year earlier. Chief
Financial Officer  John Gerspach  told journalists on a conference
call that much of the decline was tied to the unit’s equity
derivatives and proprietary-trading businesses.  “The uncertainty caused people not to do a lot, and when
you don’t do a lot, the guy in the middle doesn’t get paid,”
Stephen Errico, founder of New York-based Locust Wood Capital
LP, which manages about $400 million including Citigroup shares,
said in a Jan. 13 interview.  Investment Banking   Fees at the investment bank -- led by Raymond J. McGuire --
tumbled 45 percent to $638 million from the prior year. Revenue
from equity underwriting plunged 78 percent to $90 million as
corporations pulled back from selling shares to the public in
the quarter. The total number of initial public offerings in the
quarter shrank to 231 from 398 in the prior year as volume fell
to $25.4 billion from $124.2 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “In an admittedly challenging quarter, revenues were 8%
below our expectations,” Jeffery Harte, an analyst at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP, wrote in a note to clients. “However,
the revenue shortfall was predominantly from capital-markets
related revenues and we note that one quarter’s trading revenues
historically provide minimal forward-looking insight.”  Harte has held a “buy” rating on Citigroup shares since
November 2008.  The regional consumer bank posted a $1.45 billion profit,
an 8 percent increase from a year earlier. Citigroup spent $1.5
billion on the unit and opened 65 branches through the first
nine months of 2011, mostly in  Asia  and  Latin America , Manuel Medina-Mora, the bank’s global consumer CEO, said in November.  Bad Loans  The bank’s losses on bad loans dropped 40 percent to $4.11
billion from the same period a year earlier, as fewer customers
missed their payments. Citigroup reduced its provision for
losses on future loans by $1.47 billion, compared with $2.25
billion a year earlier.  Citi Holdings, the division Pandit created in 2009 to house
the bank’s unwanted assets, lost $806 million, compared with a
$1.02 billion loss in the same quarter of 2010. The unit’s
assets fell 25 percent to $269 billion. Citigroup halted talks
to sell the OneMain consumer-finance unit, previously known as
CitiFinancial, earlier this month, a person familiar with the
matter said.  Bank of America Corp. , the second-largest U.S. lender,
probably will report adjusted earnings of $1.63 billion for the
quarter when it announces results on Jan. 19, according to a
 Bloomberg survey  of seven analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 