-- Clariant Cuts Yield on First Bond Issue in Euros Since 2006
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-17T16:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/clariant-cuts-yield-on-first-bond-issue-in-euros-since-2006-2-.html
Clariant AG (CLN) , the Swiss maker of
plastic additives, cut the yield offered to bond investors on
its first issue of notes in euros in almost six years.  The company sold 500 million euros ($639 million) of five-
year bonds that were priced to yield 407.5 basis points more
than the benchmark swap rate, after initially marketing the
bonds at 425 basis points to 437.5 basis points, a banker
involved in the deal said. It’s the first euro-denominated
offering from Clariant since it raised 600 million euros from an
issue of 2013 bonds in March 2006.  “Many fund managers may be currently underweight on
peripheral and French names and would probably rather own
Clariant, which is not directly impacted by the European
sovereign crisis,” said Alessandro Rovelli, a credit analyst at
Aviva Investors Ltd. in  London .  Clariant joined companies including German carmaker
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and French media company Vivendi SA
in selling about 13 billion euros of bonds in the common
currency this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
European companies are rushing to sell bonds before the debt
crisis in the region worsens, cutting off the opportunity to
raise funds from bond investors.  Conditions ‘Good’  “The market conditions are good,” said Dominik Schneider,
a spokesman for Clariant. “We have already refinanced via bonds
in Swiss francs and we have many assets in euros,” he said of
the decision to offer securities in the European currency.  The Muttenz-based company, which made its biggest takeover
in April when it bought catalyst producer Sued-Chemie for 2
billion euros, is rated Ba1, the highest junk rating, at Moody’s
Investors Service.  Standard & Poor’s  grades the company BBB-,
the lowest investment-grade ranking. Moody’s cut its outlook for
the company to stable from positive in November, saying
deleveraging is likely to slow as  Europe ’s economy weakens.  The Sued-Chemie acquisition moved Clariant away from more
cyclical chemicals and dyes into a maker of higher-margin
catalysts. It’s cutting 700 jobs as it seeks to boost profit by
as much as 95 million euros this year.  “Manufacturing leading indicators have been pointing to a
slowdown and recession has begun in various European countries,
so I would be wary of Clariant ahead of their full-year results
and guidance for 2012,” Rovelli said.  BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc. and UniCredit SpA managed
the offering of new bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  