-- Columbia Labs Falls on U.S. Report Birth Gel Isn’t Effective
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-01-17T21:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/columbia-labs-falls-on-fda-staff-report-preterm-birth-gel-not-effective.html
Columbia Laboratories Inc. (CBRX)  fell the
most in almost five years after U.S. regulators said the
company’s progesterone gel to reduce the risk of preterm birth
isn’t effective.  Columbia Labs dropped 54 percent to $1.10 at the close in
 New York , the biggest single-day decline since Feb. 5, 2007.
 Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , a partner on the drug, fell 6.8
percent to $57.98, the greatest single-day loss in almost three
years.  “The information and data in this application do not
support the efficacy of progesterone gel compared with placebo
in reducing the risk of preterm births before 33 completed
weeks,” Food and Drug Administration staff wrote in a Dec. 22
 report  released today.  The product would compete with  KV Pharmaceutical Co. (KV/A) ’s gel
Makena, approved in February 2010. KV rose 6.2 percent to $1.89.  The FDA staff based its determination on data from narrow
groups in a global study, said Amy Raskopf, a spokeswoman for
Livingston, New Jersey-based Columbia Labs.  “This is a global study,” she said in a telephone
interview. “It was designed as a global study. FDA agreed.”  An FDA advisory panel is set to meet Jan. 20 on Columbia
Lab’s gel and weigh the risks and benefits. The agency isn’t
required to follow the panel recommendations.  Not Statistically Significant  Of U.S. patients, 16.8 percent using the gel experienced
preterm birth at 33 weeks of pregnancy, the endpoint the company
and the agency agreed on, compared with 19.2 percent using
placebo, not a statistically significant difference, FDA staff
said.  “It does not appear that the applicant has identified a
population of U.S. women who are likely to benefit from the use
of progesterone gel to reduce their risk of preterm birth,” FDA
staff wrote.  Columbia Labs said its gel was associated with a
statistically significant reduction in preterm birth compared
with placebo of 8.9 percent versus 15.2 percent in 465 pregnant
women from 10 countries, according to a  document  from the
company.  Preterm birth  affects  10 percent to 12 percent of all
pregnancies in the U.S., with an economic impact of $26 billion
annually, according to the company.  The safety of Columbia Lab’s gel was similar to placebo,
according to the FDA staff report. There were no maternal deaths
in either the group using the gel or the placebo and the rates
of fetal, neonatal and infant deaths were similar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  