-- Columbia University Student Adam Klein Pleads Guilty in Drug Prosecution
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-01-17T20:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/columbia-university-student-adam-klein-pleads-guilty-in-drug-prosecution.html
Adam Klein , one of five Columbia
University students arrested in December 2010 and charged with
selling drugs on the New York City school’s campus, pleaded
guilty today.  Klein, 21, of Closter,  New Jersey , made his plea before
Justice Michael Sonberg of state  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan  to
attempted criminal possession of a controlled substance in
exchange for a recommended sentence of five years of probation.
He will be sentenced Feb. 28.  Klein, a neuroscience and behavior major who competed on
the school’s fencing team, is the fourth student to plead guilty
in the case. Michael Wymbs, 23, of New York, and Jose Stephan
Perez, 21, of Atlanta pleaded guilty to similar charges last
year in exchange for five years’ probation.  Harrison David, 21, of Wrentham,  Massachusetts , pleaded
guilty in July to selling cocaine to an undercover officer in
exchange for six months in jail and five years of probation. He
began serving his prison term on Aug. 30.  A fifth student, Christopher Coles, 21, of Philadelphia,
was accepted into a pretrial diversion program and will spend a
year in a residential treatment facility. The charges against
him will be dropped if he completes the treatment successfully.  Requests Rejected  Sonberg had rejected requests from Klein, Wymbs and Perez
to enter the diversion program, which was set up in 2009 as part
of a reform of the state’s so-called Rockefeller drug laws. The
program allows judges to divert some nonviolent offenders to
treatment programs instead of incarceration.  Prosecutors said undercover officers, in a five-month
investigation nicknamed “Operation Ivy League,” spent $11,000
buying drugs including cocaine, marijuana, Ecstasy and LSD-laced
candy, with most sales taking place in common areas and bedrooms
of three fraternities.  Three suppliers, none of whom attended Columbia, pleaded
guilty in the case last year.  The case is People v. David, 00038N/2011,  New York  state
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 