-- Commodities Rise Most in Two Weeks Amid Speculation China May Ease Policy
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-01-17T21:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/commodities-advance-as-china-s-slowing-economy-spurs-optimism-over-easing.html
Commodities rose the most in two
weeks amid speculation that  China  may ease monetary policy,
boosting prospects for raw-material demand, after its economy
expanded at the slowest pace in more than two years.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (SPGSCI)  of 24  raw materials 
climbed 1.2 percent to settle at 659.56 at 3:43 p.m. New York
time, the biggest gain since Jan. 3. A gauge of industrial
metals rose to an 11-week high, leading the rally.  Commodities have advanced 15 percent from a 10-month low on
Oct. 4. Copper, crude oil and gold may rally this year as
economic growth in China and the U.S. counter the impact of a
European recession, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said last week.  “More and more market players believe that China will
implement further monetary-easing measures,”  Eugen Weinberg ,
the head of commodity research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt ,
said today in a report. “This is giving considerable buoyancy
to metal prices.”  China’s economy  expanded 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier. The expansion was the slowest in 10
quarters, spurring speculation that the government will ease
lending curbs and boost spending. China is the world’s top buyer
of copper and the second-biggest oil consumer.  An index of copper, aluminum, lead, zinc, nickel and tin on
the London Metal Exchange rose to the highest since Oct. 28.  Metals, Oil  Copper futures for March delivery gained 2.5 percent to
close at $3.7295 a pound on the Comex in  New York . Earlier, the
price reached $3.759, the highest for a most-active contract
since Sept. 21.  On the LME, lead jumped 3.8 percent, the most since Nov. 30
and the biggest increase among components in the GSCI index.
Aluminum advanced 3 percent on the LME.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , oil rose the most in
two weeks as German investor confidence jumped by a record and
 France  pushed for faster enforcement of the European Union’s
proposed ban on petroleum imports from Iran.  Gold futures climbed to a five-week high as the dollar’s
drop spurred demand for precious metals as alternative assets.
Silver also climbed.  Soybean and corn futures increased for the first time in a
week in  Chicago , partly on concern that drought in  South America 
will reduce global supplies.  U.S. natural gas closed at the lowest price in almost 10
years as above-normal temperatures and rising production
contributed to a growing surplus of the furnace and power-plant
fuel.  Exchanges in the U.S. were closed yesterday for a public
holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  