-- Commerzbank Plan Is Said to Be Viewed Positively by Schaeuble
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-01-17T15:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/commerzbank-plan-is-said-to-be-viewed-positively-by-schaeuble.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s plan to raise its
capital without asking taxpayers for aid was viewed positively
by German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  at a meeting
yesterday, according to a government official.  Bafin, the German regulator, will now examine Commerzbank’s
strategy when the bank submits its plan on Jan. 20. Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  made the presentation to
Schaeuble in Berlin on how  Germany ’s second-largest lender plans
to raise 5.3 billion euros ($6.7 billion) by the middle of the
year, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the matter is private.  Commerzbank, which is aiming to lift its capital to levels
required by the European Banking Authority, wouldn’t see its
Eurohypo public-finance unit nationalized as part of the plan,
the official said.  The lender said as recently as Jan. 9 that it will raise
capital by the end of the second quarter by selling assets,
lowering costs and retaining earnings. Blessing, who spent the
past three years trying to free the lender from  government aid ,
has pledged to avoid another bailout.  The German government doesn’t plan to modify a draft law on
reactivating its Soffin bank rescue fund to include the option
to force lenders to take taxpayer money to recapitalize
themselves, the official said.  Maximilian Bicker, a spokesman for Commerzbank, said he
couldn’t comment and referred to remarks by Chief Financial
Officer  Eric Strutz  on Dec. 8, when he said “we stand by our
intention not to make use of additional public funds.”  The company is “well under way” to meeting the EBA’s
capital requirements, Strutz  said  in a Jan. 9 presentation to
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  