-- U.S. Congress Returns to Washington Amid Historically Low Approval Ratings
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-01-17T21:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/congress-returns-amid-historically-low-approval-ratings-in-polls.html
With polls showing approval of
Congress at an historic low, lawmakers returned to Washington
today to start the legislative year and resume the very battles
that opinion surveys show have turned off voters.  The House will vote tomorrow on a  resolution  disapproving
President  Barack Obama ’s proposed increase in the U.S. debt
limit -- a symbolic action that won’t prevent a $1.2 trillion
rise in borrowing authority. The vote is left over from last
year’s battle that brought the government to the brink of
default. Later, Congress must revisit a payroll tax cut dispute
that kept lawmakers at work until Dec. 23.  A Washington-Post ABC News  poll  conducted Jan. 12-15 put
Congress’s approval rating at 13 percent, a record low for that
opinion survey. A Dec. 15-18 Gallup  poll  put the approval rate
at 11 percent, also a record low. A Pew Research Center  poll 
found that 53 percent of those surveyed Dec. 7-11 said
Republicans were more extreme than Democrats and 51 percent said
Democrats were more willing to compromise.  “The climate of opinion is so negative toward political
conflict here in  Washington , there is such a great desire to see
some compromise, that both parties would be well served doing
what they can to give the public some sense that things are
going to be better in 2012,” said  Andrew Kohut , director of the
non-partisan Pew Research Center in Washington.  Occupy  Wall Street   House members returned from a holiday recess as hundreds of
protesters from the Occupy Wall Street movement massed outside
the Capitol. Some of their ire was aimed at Democrats. One sign
carried by a protester said, “Face it Liberals, the Dems Sold
Us Out.”  “The American public are right to be distressed,
disappointed, anxious, angry about the failure of the Congress
to address the serious problems confronting our country,”
Representative  Steny Hoyer  of  Maryland , the second-ranking House
Democrat, told reporters today.  Tomorrow’s House vote was scheduled after Obama notified
Congress on Jan. 12 that the Treasury needed to raise its
borrowing authority. The disapproval resolution, expected to
pass the Republican-led House, is likely to die in the
Democratic-controlled Senate, which returns to Washington next
week, or be vetoed by the president.  Hoyer said the vote was a “charade” because lawmakers of
both parties realize enacting it would “have very negative
consequences fiscally here and around the world.” He said the
“overwhelming number of Democrats” will oppose the measure.  Credit Rating Downgrade  Still, the vote will revive memories of last July’s fight
over raising the debt limit that rattled financial markets and
led to a downgrade in the credit rating of  U.S. debt .  The vote is “probably not a good idea from the Republican
point of view given the numbers we have here,” Kohut said in a
telephone interview, referring to the polls.  Dissatisfaction with Congress is nothing new, said Duke
University political scientist  David Rohde . “The public doesn’t
like Congress failing to make it any better” when things are
going wrong, he said in a telephone interview. “We had a
disastrous economic crisis and it hasn’t gotten a lot better so
the public is unhappy about that.”  For Kohut, a key number in the Pew Center survey is that a
record 50 percent of those surveyed said the current Congress,
elected in 2010, has accomplished less than recent ones.  ‘Spin’ and Politics  Hoyer said last year was the least productive session he
has been part of since being elected in 1981 and said he wasn’t
optimistic that would change this year.  “If all we do is allow ourselves to be caught up purely
with spin and presidential politics, then it won’t be very
productive,” he said.  Another finding in the Pew poll is that a record 67 percent
of respondents think incumbent members of Congress shouldn’t be
re-elected in November. A near-record-low 50 percent of voters
said their own representative should be re-elected.  “There are few times” that number has “been that low in
recent years,” Kohut said. In 2010, when 48 incumbents were
defeated in an election that gave Republicans control of the
House, 49 percent of those surveyed by Pew said their
representative deserved re-election.  To win control of the House, Democrats must gain at least
25 seats, an outcome Rohde called “very hard to see” unless
voters’ negative attitudes about Congress spill over to their
own representatives. “That’s what happened in 2010, Democrats
got wrecked” by dissatisfaction with their performance, he
said.  63-Seat Gain  In 2010 Republicans, campaigning against the health-care
law passed that year by the Democratic-controlled Congress,
gained 63 House seats. Republicans tapped into disaffection over
the economy, accusing Democrats and Obama of pursuing policies
that discouraged  job creation  when the  unemployment  rate was
stuck above 9 percent.  Winning control of the House in this year’s election would
be a difficult feat for Democrats because, historically, such
switches in power are more likely when one party controls the
presidency and Congress, Rohde said.  “It’s usually only unified government that can produce a
shift big enough in order to lose 25 seats,” Rohde said. A
change in the legislative majority occurred in 1980, when
Republicans took control of the U.S. Senate and  Ronald Reagan 
defeated incumbent Democratic President  Jimmy Carter .  Clinton, Bush Terms  It happened in 1994, when Republicans took both houses of
Congress during Democratic President  Bill Clinton ’s first term.
Republicans lost control of Congress to Democrats in 2006,
during  George W. Bush ’s second term.  Republicans will try in November to take over the Senate
majority, now held by 51 Democrats and two independents who
caucus with the Democrats. Republicans hold 47 seats.  Democrats have a slightly better approval rating than
Republicans. The latest Washington Post-ABC poll put their
approval at 33 percent of those surveyed compared with the
Republicans’ 21 percent approval rating.  The anti-incumbent sentiment is “a bad sign for all
members of Congress,” Kohut said. “If there was a Republican
victory at the top of the ticket, it may not have the impact
down the ticket” that the election of a Republican president
typically would, he said.  “If there is a Democratic victory” in the presidential
race, “Republicans would take a hit,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  