-- Tin Gains as Prospect of Low Fed Rates Boosts Speculation of Higher Demand
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-01-26T18:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/consumer-electronics-frenzy-tops-1-trillion-as-tin-rebounds-commodities.html
Tin climbed the most in almost four
months in London as prospects of low U.S. interest rates at
least until 2014 boosted speculation of increased demand for the
metal used in mobile phones, plasma screens and cars.  The surge has made tin this year’s second-best performing
commodity of 80 raw materials after being the biggest loser of
industrial metals in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Federal Reserve ’s commitment to keep U.S.
interest rates near a record low through 2014 also sent copper
2.5 percent higher and nickel up 3.2 percent.  “The market is heading in a direction of record
tightness,” said Nicholas Snowdon, an analyst at  Barclays
Capital  in  New York . “There is a greater level of confidence
than what we saw a quarter or so ago.”  Tin for delivery in three months jumped 6.9 percent to
$24,005 a metric ton, the biggest gain since Sept. 27. Prices
have climbed 25 percent this year, just behind rubber as the
biggest gainer of 80 commodities. The high this year was
forecast to be $26,000 a ton, the median of 17 analyst and
trader estimates compiled last month by Bloomberg.  Sales of consumer electronics from  smartphones  to digital
cameras will exceed $1 trillion for the first time this year,
driving tin consumption higher just as stockpiles of the metal
are the lowest since March 2009. About 23 percent of total
stockpiles now await delivery.  China  imported 4,343 tons of tin
in November, the most since April 2009, customs data show.  Tin Shortage  Demand will outpace supply for a third consecutive year,
with the 9,400-ton shortage seen by ITRI Ltd., a  St. Albans ,
England-based industry group, enough to make about 9 billion
mobile phones. Electronics account for more than 50 percent of
consumption, according to ITRI, whose members produce about two
in every three tons of the metal.  Consumer electronics shipments will rise 5 percent to $1.04
trillion in 2012, according to GfK Digital World and the
Arlington, Virginia-based  Consumer Electronics Association ,
which represents about 2,000 companies.  The LME  index  of six metals including tin and copper has
risen 12 percent this year, the best annual start in 11 years,
according to Bloomberg data. Metals also rallied today after
U.S. durable-goods orders rose more than forecast last month.
Bookings for long-lasting goods advanced 3 percent after
rising 4.3 percent the prior month, the biggest back-to-back
gains in almost a year, according to Commerce Department data
today in  Washington . Economists projected a 2 percent increase
in demand for durable goods, which are those made to last at
least three years, according to the median forecast of 78
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 