-- Corporate Credit Swaps Decline as Spanish Borrowing Costs Ease
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-01-17T15:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/corporate-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against default
on European corporate debt fell to the lowest in more than two
months as investors pared bets the region’s crisis is deepening
as  Spain ’s borrowing costs declined.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings dropped 2.75 basis
points to 164.5, the lowest since Oct. 31, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. at 3:30 p.m. in London. A decline signals improved
perceptions of  credit quality .  Spanish borrowing costs dropped and demand for the nation’s
debt increased at the first auction since its credit rating was
cut by  Standard & Poor’s  on Jan. 13. Investors shrugged off
rating downgrades of eight other governments and the region’s
temporary bailout fund as  China ’s slowest economic growth in
more than two years boosted expectations for easier monetary
policy.  “Spain had a fairly decent auction, but it started before
that,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London. “Spain is probably getting down to
slightly more affordable levels.”  The European Financial Stability Facility, designed to fund
rescue packages for Greece, Ireland and Portugal, was stripped
of its AAA  credit rating  by Standard & Poor’s yesterday after
two of its sponsoring nations -- France and Austria -- lost
their top grades on Jan. 13.  Spain, Austria  Contracts on Spain dropped 10 basis points to 412, while
Italy fell 21 basis points to 500, according to CMA prices.
Austria fell nine basis points to 206 while the Netherlands
declined seven basis points to 116.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments dropped seven basis points to 359. Contracts on the
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with mostly high-
yield credit ratings fell 12.5 basis points to 699, the lowest
since Nov. 3.  Market ‘Wobbly’  “The New-Year rally wasn’t derailed by the ratings news,”
said Roger Francis, an analyst at Mizuho International Plc in
 London . “The market was a bit wobbly yesterday morning, but
gathered its composure and moved on.”  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers declined 7.5 basis points to 258.5 and the
subordinated gauge fell 11 basis points to 469.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($12.8 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  