-- Cove, Anadarko Find Biggest Pocket of Gas Off Mozambique
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-01-17T21:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/cove-energy-makes-biggest-natural-gas-discovery-off-mozambique.html
Cove Energy Plc (COV) , a U.K. explorer
that’s put itself up for sale, found the deepest layer of
 natural gas  so far in its discovery off Mozambique, increasing
confidence about the size of the reservoir.  The company, along with partner  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,
encountered 237 meters (777 feet) of gas in the Lagosta
discovery, Cove said in a statement in  London . Shares rose 3.6
percent to 138 pence at the close in London, the most since the
company began trading in 2005.  The results support the estimate that the basin may hold 15
trillion to 30 trillion cubic feet of gas, enough to justify
production of liquefied natural gas to supply Asian markets.
Cove, with an 8.5 percent stake in the Rovuma Area 1 where the
discovery was made, opened a data room for bidders last month
and has said it may also sell some assets in  Mozambique .  “I am confident that after further evaluation of Lagosta
2, combined with new drilling and well-testing, we will see more
resource upgrades as this exciting project drives on toward
final investment decision in 2013,” said John Craven, chief
executive officer of Cove.  A second drillship, the Deepwater Millennium, has arrived
in the region to conduct flow tests, the company said. Anadarko,
based in The Woodlands, Texas, has a 36.5 percent interest in
the area.  The announcement, which “surprised slightly to the
upside,” shows continued progress on the Mozambique program,
said Bob Brackett, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein in New
York who has a “market perform” rating on Anadarko shares and
owns none.  “It’s the thickest they’ve found, which is nice, but
ultimately it’s still a giant resource so this is just
appraising that resource,” Brackett said in a telephone
interview today.  Anadarko  rose  1.5 percent to $79.20 at the close in  New
York . The shares have dropped 28 cents in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston  at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  