-- Credit Suisse Was 2011’s Top Renewable Energy M&A Adviser
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-01-17T18:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/credit-suisse-was-top-merger-adviser-in-renewable-energy-in-2011.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  was the top
adviser for  renewable-energy  mergers and acquisitions in 2011
after participating in the year’s four biggest deals, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said.  Credit Suisse advised on 14 deals totaling $15.6 billion,
putting it ahead of  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., which
tied for second with $10.7 billion in transactions, according to
a report today from the London-based researcher. All three
worked on 2011’s biggest purchase, Electricite de France SA’s
$7.9-billion bid for control of  EDF (EDF)  Energies Nouvelles.  “This deal in fact dominates the top of the table with all
the top six advisers having involvement,” New Energy Finance
said in its report.  The tables cover renewable power and smart-energy
technologies, including low-energy lighting and meters that help
cut electricity use. They included $33.2 billion in transactions
last year, up 58 percent from 2010.  Consolidation in the solar and wind industries is set to
carry on this year, said Martin Catchpole, head of European
renewables at Credit Suisse.  “There will be a continuation of consolidation and mergers
in the downstream space in solar and in particular with the wind
developer and operator players,” Catchpole said today in a
telephone interview. “In the upstream solar side, we’re going
to see some consolidation of manufacturers in order to take out
supply and make it a more efficient marketplace.”  There’s unlikely to be “significant consolidation” among
wind-turbine manufacturers because “the number of leading
players is already close to a mature level,” Catchpole said.  Toshiba, Iberdrola  This year’s tables aren’t directly comparable with the
ranking made last year, when New Energy Finance split its
findings into financial advisers to companies making
acquisitions and those targeted for a buyout.  In 2010,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  topped the list of those
advising companies that made acquisitions while  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  led for targets. The two Spanish banks
placed 13th and 61st in this year’s chart respectively. Under
the new methodology, Credit Suisse would have placed ninth in
2010, New Energy Finance said.  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s $2.3 billion acquisition of meter-maker
Landis+Gyr,  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s $2.1 billion purchase of an extra 20
percent of existing subsidiary Iberdrola Renovables SA, and
Total SA’s $1.6 billion bid for 60 percent of  SunPower Corp (SPWR) .
were the next biggest deals after EDF.  EDF was the biggest acquirer in 2011, followed by Toshiba,
Iberdrola, Total and Zhejiang Haitong Food, which bought a solar
photovoltaic products manufacturer for $978 million, according
to the league tables.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  