-- Credit Suisse Wins Dismissal of Claims Bank Misled on AOL Stock
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/credit-suisse-judge-tosses-claims-bank-misled-on-aol-stock-1-.html
A  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  unit and
four of its former executives, including technology investment
banker  Frank Quattrone , won dismissal of a lawsuit alleging they
deceived investors into buying AOL  Time Warner (TWX)  stock.  U.S. District Judge Nathaniel Gorton in  Boston  threw out
both of the claims in the class-action complaint against the
bank and the executives after finding that a study by the
plaintiffs’ expert witness was flawed, according to a Jan. 13
ruling. The case was set to go to trial in March.  The case was brought by individuals and a pension fund that
bought stock in AOL Time Warner Inc. from the time of its merger
in January 2001 until a disclosure in July 2002 of an
investigation of its accounting practices. They claimed that 35
research reports issued by the unit, then known as  Credit Suisse
First Boston , over that period recommended buying the stock and
set unattainable financial projections even as the analysts knew
the company couldn’t reach those results.  The failure by the expert witness, Scott Hakala, to
“isolate the effect of defendants’ alleged fraud from other
industry- and company-specific news reported on event days
confounds his event study and renders it unreliable,” Gorton
said in his ruling.  Frederic Fox, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, declined to
comment on the ruling yesterday.  Positive Recommendations  The plaintiffs, in their original complaint, said, “When
issuing those reports, defendants failed to disclose
significant, material conflicts of interest which they had, with
respect to links between such positive recommendations and
Credit Suisse First Boston’s interest in obtaining investment
banking business from  AOL. (AOL) ”  The stock dropped almost 80 percent from the time of the
merger to the time the investigation was revealed. Time Warner
Inc., the owner of movie studios, cable networks and magazines,
merged with America Online Inc., the Internet access provider,
in a $106 billion deal heralded at the time as the combination
of old and new media. The arrangement never worked. Time Warner
dropped AOL from its corporate name in 2003 and spun the
division off into a  separate public company  in 2009.  Credit Suisse argued that the bank’s reports had no effect
on inflating the stock and that the research wasn’t any more
positive than that of other banks.  ‘Gratified’  “Credit Suisse’s approach is to fight cases that we
believe are meritless,” Steven Vames, a spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. “We fought this case for 10 years
and are gratified by the outcome.”  U.S. District Judge Nancy Gertner dismissed Credit Suisse’s
motion to dismiss the case in 2006 saying, “Isolating the
myriad causal factors that affect stock price is a factual
question that should be decided at trial, with the help of
qualified experts. It is not an issue appropriate for a motion
to dismiss.”  Last August she denied Quattrone’s motion to dismiss the
case. He moved to reconsider that ruling, saying he had nothing
to do with the reports. Gertner retired last year and the case
was reassigned to Gorton.  “We’re pleased with the court’s opinion and are happy to
put this flawed case behind us,” Kenneth Hausman, a lawyer for
Quattrone, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Exercise Control  Quattrone was a defendant because he was said to exercise
control over the two analysts sued, James Kiggen and  Laura Martin . Quattrone was dismissed by Credit Suisse in 2003 and now
runs a San Francisco-based boutique investment bank, Qatalyst
Partners LLC, which has been an advisor in high-profile
acquisitions such as Google Inc.’s $12.5 billion buyout of
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. in 2011.  E-mails produced during the litigation showed that the
analysts disagreed about  AOL’s prospects . Martin was an
entertainment analyst who had covered Time Warner, and Kiggen
was a technology analyst who had taken responsibility for AOL
Time Warner. Martin warned Kiggen in e-mails that the company
couldn’t make its numbers and that its target price was too
high. Also sued was Elliot Rogers, Credit Suisse’s head of
research at the time. None of the four executives sued still
works at the bank.  Restated Results  In July 2002, after the Washington Post published articles
about AOL’s accounting practices, such as booking stock rights
and bartered computer equipment as ad revenue, the company
disclosed that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was
investigating those practices. In October 2002 AOL said it was
restating financial results from September 2000 through June
2002. Its ad revenue and earnings had been inflated.  The plaintiffs cited e-mails showing that Credit Suisse
analysts had heard rumors about AOL’s being under investigation
and kept that information from customers. The bank said in a
filing that it “had no duty to disclose any of the
unsubstantiated rumors.”  The lead plaintiff in the case is the Bricklayers and
Trowel Trades International Pension Fund.  Credit Suisse Group’s American depositary receipts rose 42
cents, or 1.9 percent, to $23.05 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange  composite trading  yesterday. The company is based in
Zurich,  Switzerland . AOL Inc., based in New York, climbed 11
cents to $15.04 yesterday.  The case is In re: Credit Suisse-AOL Securities Litigation,
02-12146, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  