-- Oil Trades Near Three-Day High as Iran Supply Tension Counters Economy
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-18T08:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/crude-rises-a-second-day-in-new-york-as-reports-boost-economic-optimism.html
Oil traded near the highest level in
three days in  New York  as speculation supplies from Iran will be
disrupted countered concern that economic growth will slow.  Futures were little changed after earlier advancing as much
as 0.7 percent and are up 2 percent this week. Iran called on
Saudi Arabia to be “more wise and responsible” after the
kingdom said it could make up for any supply loss resulting from
a European ban on imports of Iranian crude. The World Bank cut
its global growth forecast by the most in three years, saying a
recession in the euro region may exacerbate a slowdown in
 emerging markets .  “The market is very supported by tension over Iran,” said
 Ken Hasegawa , a commodity-derivative sales manager at Newedge
Group in  Tokyo , who predicts New York crude will trade between
$98 and $104 a barrel this month. “Still, we have a lot of
uncertainty in Europe and this factor may subdue this market.”  Crude for February delivery was at $100.78 a barrel, up 7
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 4:43 p.m. Singapore time. The contract earlier rose as much
as 72 cents. It closed at $100.71 yesterday, up $2.01 from Jan.
13. Floor trading was shut Jan. 16 for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday and electronic trades were booked with yesterday’s
transactions for settlement.  Brent Premium  Brent oil for March settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange was up 10 cents at $111.63 a barrel. The
European benchmark crude was at a $10.72 premium to New York
contracts for the same month. The spread closed at $10.66
yesterday, the lowest gap in nine days. It was a record $27.88
on Oct. 14.  Saudi Arabia can “easily” boost crude production to as
much as 11.8 million barrels a day to offset a shortfall from
Iran, Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said in an interview with  CNN  on
Jan. 16. The kingdom has the capacity to produce 12.5 million
barrels a day and pumps about 9.8 million, he said.  “If this comment is the official stance of  Saudi Arabia  we
advise Saudi officials to be more wise and responsible in their
approach,” Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said
yesterday, according to the state-run Fars news agency.  European Union foreign ministers are scheduled to meet Jan.
23 to decide on proposed sanctions on Iran’s oil imports, in a
bid to halt its nuclear program.  Strait of Hormuz  The Persian Gulf state, the second-largest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after Saudi
Arabia, has threatened to block the Strait of Hormuz in
retaliation. About 20 percent of the world’s oil flows through
the waterway, which is 21 miles (34 kilometers) wide at its
narrowest point, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  The U.S. asked  South Korea  to halve oil imports from Iran,
the Dong-A Ilbo newspaper reported today, citing an unidentified
government official. South Korea’s stance is to cut shipments by
about 30 percent, according to the report. A U.S. delegation
visits  Japan  today to push for sanctions support.  The global economy will grow 2.5 percent this year, down
from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, according to the  World
Bank . Turmoil in Europe has the potential to trigger a financial
crisis reminiscent of 2008, the Washington-based institution
said.  Oil’s rally in New York may stall as stochastic oscillators
on the daily and weekly charts remain above 70, signaling
futures have advanced too quickly, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Investors tend to sell contracts when prices are
considered overbought.  Crude inventories in the U.S., the world’s largest oil
consumer,  probably increased  3 million barrels last week, based
on the median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News before an Energy Department report tomorrow. Stockpiles
have climbed the past three weeks to 334.6 million.  The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute in
 Washington  will release its own supply data today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  