-- Cuomo’s New York Budget Ties School Funding to Teacher-Evaluation System
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-01-17T22:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/cuomo-offers-2013-budget-of-132-5-billion-that-plugs-2-billion-deficit.html
New York (STONY1)  Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
proposed a $132.5 billion budget that links an increase in
education spending to a new teacher-evaluation system and raises
the retirement ages for future workers, a plan already drawing
opposition from unions.  Cuomo’s spending plan for fiscal 2013 closes a $2 billion
deficit with no new taxes in part by finding $1.14 billion in
savings from consolidating purchasing and human resources, he
said today in Albany, the capital. A tax deal reached last month
that raised rates on those earning $2 million or more added $1.5
billion in revenue.  The proposal follows through on Cuomo’s pledge to raise
spending on Medicaid and education by about 4 percent. The boost
in school aid will be tied to compliance with a new statewide
teacher-evaluation system, a plan similar to one proposed last
week by  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg . The governor suggested
he expects opposition from the teachers’ unions.  “If you’re serious about improving education, this is what
we have to do this year,” Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, said
to an audience that included legislative leaders and Comptroller
 Thomas DiNapoli .  In 2010, New York made a commitment to President Barack Obama’s Race to the Top program that it would implement a
teacher-evaluation system. School districts haven’t implemented
an program the state designed, and the $700 million in federal
funding the New York received is in danger of being recalled,
Cuomo said.  Teacher Evaluations  Cuomo’s plan requires school districts to put in place the
new evaluation system by Jan. 17, 2013, or lose their share of
the 4 percent increase in state spending, the governor said.
Federal officials have assured Cuomo that the Race to the Top
grant money can be saved if the states’ more than 700 districts
commit to evaluations, Cuomo said.  The first-term governor’s pension plan, called Tier VI,
would raise the  retirement age  for new workers and give them a
choice of a state-backed pension or a 401(k) plan. The changes
would save public employers in the state, including  New York
City , $79 billion over the next 30 years, he said. He proposed a
similar bill last year that didn’t include an option for a
401(k) plan. The Legislature didn’t act on it.  “The governor’s message will resonate with the business
community, because it contains no political gimmicks and
provides a clear road map to fiscal stability,” Kathryn Wylde,
president of the Partnership for New York City, a civic group
composed of corporate chief executives, said in a e-mail.  ‘Cheap Shot’  New York’s $133.8 billion pension, the third-largest in the
U.S., was 101.5 percent funded in 2010, better than any other
state, according to an annual study by Bloomberg Rankings.  “The proposal for a new public employee pension tier is an
assault on the middle class and a cheap shot at public
employees,” Danny Donohue, president of the Civil Service
Employees Association, the state’s largest public-workers union,
said in an e-mailed statement. “It will provide no short-term
savings and will mean people will have to work longer, pay more
and gain less benefit.”  Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, and
Republican Senate Majority Leader  Dean Skelos  both said they
believed the pension proposals could win approval in the
Legislature this year. They said the same for Cuomo’s plan to
reduce county payments to Medicaid, the joint federal-state
health-care program for the poor. Cuomo wants the state to
absorb increases in local Medicaid costs by 2015 as the state
takes over the cost of administering the program.  Bloomberg Support  Cuomo’s proposals may save New York City billions of
dollars over several years, Bloomberg said in an e-mailed
statement. He backed the governor’s plan to resolve an impasse
between the state Education Department and teachers’ unions over
“rigorous teacher evaluations,” which the mayor said would
help identify and remove ineffective teachers from classrooms.  “He has my strong support,” Bloomberg said.  “The
governor’s priorities are the right priorities for the state,
and I will be working with him to move his agenda forward.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  Cuomo is riding record-high approval ratings at 73 percent,
according to a  poll  released yesterday by Siena College in
Loudonville, New York.  In 2010, his first year in office, Cuomo erased a $10
billion deficit, got New York’s two biggest government-worker
unions to agree to pay freezes and furloughs, instituted a
property-tax cap and pushed through a bill legalizing same-sex
marriage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  