-- TD Bank Aided Rothstein Fraud, Investors’ Lawyer Tells Jury
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-01-17T20:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/td-bank-aided-rothstein-ponzi-scheme-investors-lawyer-tells-florida-jury.html
TD Bank (TD)  helped Scott Rothstein, the
convicted  Florida  attorney, keep his $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme
afloat by assuring victims their money was safe while Rothstein
depleted the accounts, a lawyer for investors told a jury.  David Mandel , an attorney for Coquina Investments, in
closing arguments today after a trial in Miami, pointed to
letters in which bank Vice President Frank Spinosa said
Rothstein’s account was locked and the money in it could be
disbursed only to  Corpus Christi , Texas-based Coquina.  Coquina Investments’ Rothstein lawsuit is the first such
case against the bank to go to trial. Attorneys representing
other investors have been watching it closely.  “This case is very significant,” said William Scherer, an
attorney representing a group that lost $180 million. “This is
the canary in the  coal mine  for our case.”  Scherer is also suing TD Bank, a unit of Toronto-Dominion
Bank, claiming it had a direct role in the fraud.  “The facts in this case and the facts in our case are the
same, just with different plaintiffs,” Scherer said. “The
evidence in this case will come in in our case. It’s not the
only evidence we have, but everything that came in will be part
of our case.”  Mandel asked for $32 million in compensatory damages and
$140 million in punitive damages.  Holly R. Skolnick, a lawyer for TD Bank, said Coquina must
have realized that investments earning almost 50 percent in a
few months were too good to be legitimate.  ‘Obvious’ Fraud  “It was obvious to Coquina that these were fraudulent
investments,” Skolnick told jurors. “ It had to be obvious.
These deals make no sense.”  Rothstein told victims of his fraud that they were buying
stakes in sexual and employment discrimination settlements that
his  law firm , Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler PA, was handling. The
settlements were fictional.  Skolnick disputed the idea that Coquina relied on the
letter Spinosa wrote, noting that it said Rothstein still
controlled the account.  “This letter took on a new meaning, became the hook after
Ponzi scheme exploded when they were looking for somebody with
deep pockets to sue,” she said.  Spinosa took the stand during the trial before U.S.
District Judge Marcia Cooke and refused to testify, citing his
Fifth Amendment right not to be forced to incriminate himself.  Spinosa’s Role  “For all intents and purposes, Frank is the bank” where
Rothstein is concerned, Mandel told the jury, referring to
Spinosa, who is no longer with the bank.  Mandel said other bank officials failed to act when unusual
activity in Rothstein’s accounts triggered money-laundering
alerts in the bank’s internal system.  “A mountain of red flags?” Mandel said. “They didn’t
lift a finger. Once fraud was evident, it was their obligation
to report it and stop it.”  Rothstein pleaded guilty to five counts of  wire fraud ,
conspiracy and racketeering and was sentenced to 50 years in
prison in 2010.  The scheme collapsed in October 2009 and Rothstein briefly
fled to  Morocco  before returning to the  United States  to turn
himself in. He is cooperating with authorities and attorneys as
they sue alleged enablers of the fraud.  Seven employees and associates of Rothstein have been
criminal charged. Five pleaded guilty, and two are awaiting
trial.  The case is Coquina Investments v. Rothstein, 0:10-cv-
60786, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 