-- Dana Gas $1 Billion Sukuk Yield Drops Most on Record on Payment Optimism
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-01-17T15:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/dana-gas-promises-to-honor-debt-payments-amid-concern-on-1-billion-sukuk.html
The yield on  Dana Gas (DANA)  PJSC’s $1
billion Islamic bonds fell the most on record after the United
Arab Emirates energy company promised to meet debt obligations.  The rate on the 7.5 percent sukuk due in October dropped 19
percentage points to 52.7 percent at 6:53 p.m. in Dubai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price climbed to
72.56 cents on the dollar. Dana Gas shares closed unchanged at
34 fils after earlier gaining as much as 8.8 percent.  “Dana Gas over the last four years has timely and
consistently paid, on or before the due date, the sukuk profit
amount and will continue to do so pursuant with its
obligations,” the company said in a  statement  today. Dana Gas
appointed a financial adviser and will report financial results
Jan. 31 as well as provide an operational update, it said.  Bonds and shares of Dana Gas, which gets  most of its output 
from  Egypt  and the Kurdish region of northern  Iraq , have tumbled
on investor concern the Sharjah, U.A.E.-based company may
struggle to  repay debt . It may restructure the sukuk at 61.5
percent of the par value, investment bank Exotix Ltd. said in a
report on Jan. 8.  “It’s very important that the announcement came, the
question is why it took so long,” Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief
investment officer at Capm Investment PJSC in  Abu Dhabi , said by
phone today. “Still, stock and bond investors want more than
just a general statement, they want specifics and investors will
be waiting for the announcement on Jan. 31.”  Stocks Slump  The yield on the Islamic bonds, which comply with the
religion’s ban on paying and receiving interest, jumped 17
percentage points yesterday to 71.8 percent. The company’s
shares  have tumbled  54 percent in the past 12 months.  The sukuk, even after today’s move, is yielding more than
11 times the average rate on Islamic debt in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council, which includes the U.A.E. and Qatar, the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index shows. The yield on
the region’s debt rose five basis points yesterday to 4.56
percent.  “The falling bond price made them react, although in terms
of the announcement, it doesn’t say anything new,” Atul Gharde,
a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at SJS Markets Ltd., said in an
e-mail in response to questions from Bloomberg News. “The
markets are not conducive for any capital market transaction or
even refinancing at present. My guess is they will try to repay
given the huge reputational risk.”  Payments  Dana Gas received a total of $177 million in payments from
Egypt and the Kurdish region last year, it said today. Output in
Egypt, where clashes have continued between security forces and
protesters since President  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster in February,
fell 4.6 percent in the third quarter to the equivalent of 3.72
million barrels of oil.  The company’s board on Jan. 4 considered updates on its
stake in  Mol Nyrt. (MOL)  as well as on financing projects in Egypt and
the U.A.E., Dana Gas said at the time, without giving further
details. Its unlisted parent Crescent Petroleum Co. owns 3
percent of Mol,  Hungary ’s largest oil refiner, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  