-- DBS’s Lauschke Sees 10-Year Korean Bond Yield Rising to 4.3%
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-01-17T08:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/dbs-s-lauschke-sees-10-year-korean-bond-yield-rising-to-4-3-.html
Jens Lauschke, a fixed-income
strategist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore , comments on
the outlook for South Korea’s bonds in an interview conducted
via email:  “Considerably lower policy rates in Korea are unlikely,
which mean that capital outflows and a tightening of financial
conditions are likely to have more impact on the yield curve
than movements in short-term rates.  “We expect three-year Korea treasury bond yields to trade
in a range just above the policy rate and 10-year yields to rise
above 4 percent in the first quarter and to reach 4.3 percent by
the fourth quarter. The Korea treasury bond yield curve should
steepen.  “It is now clear that the Korean economy in 2012 will see
a significant negative impact of the crisis in  Europe , not only
because of a weaker outlook for global trade, but also because
of a weaker outlook for domestic demand.  “The current policy rate level of 3.25 percent is not high
relative to historical inflation, which means it is generally
supportive of growth and not inappropriate even for sub-par
growth scenarios in 2012. Annual core CPI inflation has averaged
about 3 percent over the past 10 years.  “Aggressive policy easing would only become necessary, if
Korea’s financial markets come under a lot more stress, similar
to what happened in 2008/09. That is not our baseline scenario
for 2012. Should the environment remain challenging, we think
that the Bank of  Korea  would cut rates by at most 50 basis
points.  “That leaves us to conclude that demand and supply factors
will likely have more impact on the Korean yield curve this year
than the BOK’s interest rate policy and movements in Korean
short-term rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  