-- Debt-Limit Debate Returns to Congress as Budget Decisions Wait
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-01-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/debt-limit-debate-to-return-to-congress-while-budget-decisions-will-wait.html
Congress will joust over a symbolic
vote on the U.S.  debt limit  this week while a decision on
whether to extend $3 trillion in tax cuts into 2013 probably
will wait until after the November election.  Democrats and Republicans will debate Medicare cuts that
wouldn’t take effect for years, though are unlikely to resolve
what to do about spending reductions set for next January. The
only major bill to clear Congress before the elections may be a
plan to extend a payroll tax cut through the rest of 2012.  “We just have very different ideas on how to address these
issues,” House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, said in an interview.  The House returns today from its holiday break and plans to
vote on the debt limit tomorrow. Senators come back to
Washington Jan. 23. Edward Kleinbard, former staff director of
the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, said lawmakers
probably will focus more on wooing voters than addressing a
budgetary train wreck coming at year’s end. That’s when former
President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts, extended by President
 Barack Obama  in December 2010, are set to expire and $1 trillion
in automatic spending cuts will start.  “I expect a great deal of hot air to be expended but
nothing substantive to happen” before the election, said
Kleinbard, now a law professor at the University of  Southern
California  in  Los Angeles .  The fate of those tax-and-spending questions will be
decided by the election, meaning that much of lawmakers’ debate
this year will aim to underscore differences between the
parties, not muddle the picture with compromises, he said.  ‘Framing the Choice’  “The country is going to have to make a choice,” Ryan
said. What Congress and Obama “will probably accomplish is
framing the choice for the country to make in 2012.”  First up is a  debt-limit  debate that will be largely
political theater. Under a budget agreement hatched out last
year, Congress created a mechanism that in effect lets Obama
unilaterally lift the legal cap on borrowing.  House Republicans  plan to adopt a resolution tomorrow
rejecting Obama’s Jan. 12 request to raise the debt limit by
$1.2 trillion, though the measure will die either in the Senate
or by presidential veto. That will allow Obama to lift the cap
on his own after Republicans have gone on record against it.  “Congress can’t keep rubber-stamping President Obama’s
requests to increase the debt ceiling,” Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a
New Hampshire Republican, said in a statement.  ‘Duck Responsibility’  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the House Budget Committee, called the debt vote a
“political kabuki dance” that “allows a lot of Republican
members to duck responsibility for the tax and spending
decisions that have been made by the Congress.”  Obama’s annual budget request due Feb. 6 will probably
restate previous proposals, administration officials have said,
including higher taxes for the wealthy. The president also
proposes to consolidate six agencies dealing with trade and
commerce.  House Republicans plan to follow with a budget plan
reprising their call last year to cut taxes and overhaul
Medicare. Though the likelihood of reaching agreement with the
Democratic-dominated Senate is slim, Ryan said, “We simply owe
it to the country to show how we would do things differently.”  A proposal to continue for the rest of 2012 a 2-percentage
point cut in the  payroll tax , which expires Feb. 29, might be
the last major bill to clear Congress before November -- if
lawmakers can agree on how to finance it.  $150 Billion  The parties remain far apart on where to find about $150
billion to pay for the tax break for workers. Democrats support
a surcharge on millionaires, while Republicans have proposed
raising Medicare premiums for wealthier seniors, reducing aid to
the jobless and extending a pay freeze for federal workers.  Even tougher work is months ahead, when more than 100 tax
cuts totaling $3 trillion are set to expire at the end of
December. Among them are the Bush-era income-tax cuts,
reductions in  capital gains , dividend and estate tax rates, and
a number of business tax breaks.  Further, $1 trillion in automatic spending cuts are
scheduled to start in 2013. Congress enacted the reductions last
year in an unsuccessful bid to push a congressional
supercommittee to find another way to cut the deficit. The
Pentagon’s budget will be chopped by 10 percent, Medicare
spending will be cut by 2 percent and hundreds of other programs
will be reduced by 8 percent.  “The question is whether our political system can make it
into an opportunity to come to grips with the unavoidable,”
said former Congressional Budget Office Director Bob Reischauer.  Promoting Gridlock  Election-year politics aren’t all that’s promoting
gridlock. Congress’s calendar offers few chances to compel
lawmakers to compromise. Last year, lawmakers had to vote to
raise the debt limit and pass bills to keep the government
operating, which gave Republicans opportunities to force cuts.
This year, lawmakers won’t need to pass any budget bills until
the end of September.  “There is not the same opportunity for hostage-taking that
we saw this past year,” said  Stan Collender , a former
congressional budget aide.  The parties’ tax-and-spending proposals will serve a
purpose even if they go nowhere before November, said
Representative Mick Mulvaney, a South Carolina Republican.  “One of the roles of the House this year is being a
messenger for the Republican party and letting people know if
you give us the levers of power, if you give us control over the
Senate and the White House, here is what we will do,” Mulvaney
said. “This will be the year of ideas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomerg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  