-- Dixons Profitability Improves in Home Market
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-17T10:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/dixons-profitability-improves-in-home-market-as-sales-decline-moderates.html
Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , the largest U.K.
consumer-electronics retailer, said profitability improved at
home after it sold more products at full price over the holiday,
boosting the shares the most since November.  Gross  margins , or profit as a percentage of sales, widened
by 0.4 percentage points in the U.K., and were unchanged for the
entire business, the  Hemel Hempstead , England-based retailer
said today. Dixons also said sales declined at a more moderate
pace over Christmas and rose in the last two weeks.  “This was a solid performance from Dixons in what remains
a testing market environment,”  David Jeary , an analyst at
Investec Securities in London, said in a note. The unchanged
gross margin was “a very good performance in our view.” Jeary
has a “hold”  recommendation  on the shares.  The stock rose as much as 14 percent, the  steepest  intraday
gain since Nov. 24. Sales were boosted by products such as
 Amazon.com Inc.’s (AMZN)  Kindle e-reader, with one being sold every
three seconds over the holiday, Dixons said. Profitability was
also helped by increased demand for so-called KnowHow services
such as computer-software installation.  Sales at U.K. and Irish stores open at least a year fell 7
percent in the 12 weeks ended Jan. 7, the company said, an
improvement on the 8 percent decline reported for the first half
of the financial year ended Oct. 15.  ‘Solid Performance’  Domestic same-store revenue rose 23 percent from Jan. 4 to
Jan. 14, compared with a period of last year when sales were
hurt by an increase in the value-added  tax rate .  “This is a solid performance against a challenging
backdrop,” Chief Executive Officer John Browett said in the
statement. “ Consumer confidence  in many of our markets remains
fragile and we will maintain a cautious approach to the outlook
for the year ahead.”  The  British Retail Consortium  has forecast an “equally
challenging year” for U.K. retailers in 2012 after promotions
drove a 2.2 percent gain in December sales.  Best Buy Inc. (BBY)  said
in November that it plans to exit the U.K., while the competing
Comet chain has been sold to private-equity firm OpCapita LLP.  “It is obviously helpful that we’ve had some competitors
withdraw from the U.K. or are in serious trouble,” Browett said
on a call with journalists. Internet competitors have a very
small share of the market, according to Dixons, which generated
about 19 percent of sales online in the holiday quarter.  Online Sales  “Our pricing is very competitive, customers really want to
buy from a store where they can get help and advice and also
someone to look after them when something goes wrong, so we’re
through our worst fears on that,” Browett said of online
competition from companies such as Amazon. “We think this
Christmas has proven that we can actually trade well.”  Online sales at Dixons rose 43 percent in the last four
weeks, the executive said.  Sales of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads rose 200 percent over the
holiday, while headphone sales doubled, Dixons said.  The retailer did “much better” than competitors on
televisions, Browett said, particularly three-dimensional
versions that need to be explained to shoppers.  Consumers “really want the new technology,” he said.
“Where people are being more cautious are things which they can
defer or where technology has run its course,” such as
satellite navigation systems and some gaming products.  Group same-store  sales  fell 5 percent in the 12-week
holiday period. Declines in  Italy ,  Greece  and the U.K.
outweighed growth in Nordic markets, the company said.  The London Olympics and European soccer finals are among
events taking place this year that mean the retailer can be “a
little bit more optimistic,” the CEO said.  Dixons has the cash and bank facilities to repay a bond due
this year, Browett said. The retailer has a bond of 160 million
pounds that matures Nov. 15, according to  Bloomberg data.   The shares were up 14 percent at 10.25 pence at 10:47 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  