-- Euro Climbs as IMF Studies $500 Billion Boost in Capacity; Dollar Weakens
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-01-18T22:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/dollar-yen-hold-losses-versus-euro-as-u-s-recovery-damps-safety-demand.html
The euro gained for a second day
versus the dollar and the yen as the  International Monetary Fund 
proposed raising its lending capacity by as much as $500 billion
to protect the global economy amid Europe’s debt turmoil.  The 17-nation currency rallied against most of its major
peers as Greek officials resumed negotiations with bondholders.
The dollar fell against the euro on reduced demand for a refuge
as U.S. data showed a rebound in industrial production. Brazil’s
real climbed as risk appetite improved, while the pound weakened
against the euro as Britain’s unemployment rose.  “The talk that the IMF is looking to shore up its lending
capacity, the talks resuming between  Greece  and its creditor
banks, all those things are having a little bit of a calming
influence on the euro today,” said Carl Forcheski, a director
on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in
 New York . “The overwhelming feeling is that the euro is
vulnerable to the downside.”  The euro appreciated 1 percent to $1.2863 at 5 p.m. New
York time, after rising 0.5 percent yesterday. Europe’s shared
currency climbed 1 percent to 98.83 yen. It fell on Jan. 16 to
97.04 yen, the weakest level since December 2000. The dollar was
little changed today at 76.82 yen.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.8 percent to 80.518, the lowest level
since Jan. 5.  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities rose 0.4
percent last month after a revised 0.3 percent decline in
November, Federal Reserve data showed today in  Washington . A
Bloomberg News survey forecast a 0.5 percent rise for December.  Homebuilder Confidence  The euro remained stronger versus the dollar as a report
showed confidence among U.S.  homebuilders  rose this month to the
highest level since June 2007. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment gauge increased to 25 this month,
the Washington-based group said today. Readings lower than 50
mean more respondents still said conditions were poor.  Sterling dropped for a second day against the euro and
Swiss franc as data showed the U.K.’s unemployment rate rose to
8.4 percent in the quarter through November, the most since
January 1996.  The pound depreciated 0.3 percent to 83.32 pence per euro
and declined 0.4 percent to 1.4504 Swiss francs. Sterling rose
0.7 percent to $1.5438.  IMF Boost  The euro rallied versus the dollar and yen as an IMF
spokesman said in a statement that the Washington-based lender
wants to increase its resources after identifying a potential
need for $1 trillion in coming years. The IMF is studying
options and will not comment further until it has consulted its
members, the fund said.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said talks on a
debt-swap plan for his country are at a “very fine point.” He
spoke to lawmakers in  Athens  today in comments televised live on
state-run Vouli TV.  Greece resumed negotiations today with the  Institute of
International Finance , which represents private creditors. There
was a “lengthy meeting,” and talks will continue tomorrow, IIF
spokesman  Frank Vogl  said in an e-mailed statement.  The Washington-based IIF broke off negotiations last week
after failing to agree with the government about how much money
investors will lose by swapping their bonds. The government may
forge a deal by the end of the week, a finance-ministry official
told reporters in the Greek capital today. He declined to be
identified.  U.S. Financial Assets  Global demand for U.S.  financial assets  rose more than
forecast in November, boosted by investors seeking shelter from
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Net buying of long-term equities, notes
and bonds totaled $59.8 billion, versus net purchases of $8.3
billion in October, the Treasury said in Washington. Including
short-term securities, foreigners bought a net $48.6 billion
compared with net selling of $39.6 billion the previous month.  The euro “will come under increasing pressure through the
course of the year,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European
foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London . He spoke
in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg - The First
Word” with Ken Prewitt.  The euro weakened 3.7 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen
rose 8.6 percent in the best performance in the gauge of 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar gained 6.7 percent.  Futures traders last week increased bets to a record that
the euro will decline against the dollar. The  difference  between
wagers that the shared currency will fall versus those that it
will rise -- so-called net shorts -- surged to 155,195 in the
week ended Jan. 10, data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed on Jan. 13.  ‘Classic Sign’  “Compared to one week or two weeks ago, the odds of a
Greek messy or coercive default are greater, yet the euro” has
gained for two days, said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “It’s a
classic sign of how short the market is euro. The fact that it
can’t sell off on bad news tells you that there’s a bit of
fatigue setting in with euro bears,” he said. A short position
is a bet a currency will weaken.  Higher-yielding currencies rose as stocks advanced,
boosting demand for risk.  Brazil ’s real,  Norway ’s krone and
 Sweden ’s krona gained the most against the dollar among major
currencies. The krona appreciated 1.2 percent to 6.8437 to the
greenback. The Norwegian currency climbed 1.2 percent to 5.9675
per dollar, and the real strengthened 1.1 percent to 1.7671.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  