-- Don’t Lump Cuba With Iran on U.S. Terror List: Jeffrey Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-01-17T00:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/don-t-lump-cuba-with-iran-on-terror-list-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Here is some of what we know about
the disorderly, nuclear-armed state of  Pakistan : We know that
the world’s most notorious terrorist,  Osama bin Laden , found
refuge there for several years. We know that bin Laden’s
organization, al-Qaeda, has moved its headquarters to Pakistan’s
sovereign territory.  We know that Lashkar-e-Taiba, the terrorist group that was
responsible for devastating attacks in Mumbai in 2008, maintains
a 200-acre campus near Lahore. And we know that Pakistan’s
intelligence agency has given direct support to terrorist
groups, including Lashkar and the Haqqani Network, which is
responsible for the deaths of U.S. soldiers in  Afghanistan .  Pakistan, it seems, would be a natural candidate for
inclusion on the “ state sponsors of terrorism ” list that the
U.S. State Department produces each year.  But it isn’t on the list.  Here is some of what we know about Cuba. Cuba is an
impoverished autocracy. Its superannuated leaders are gradually
opening their country’s economy. Cuba is reducing the size of
its military, it has condemned al-Qaeda and it poses no
national-security threat to the U.S. No serious intelligence
analyst believes that Cuba is still funding or arming foreign
insurgencies.  But Cuba is on the list. So what, exactly, has it done to
merit inclusion?  Criticism Equals Terrorism  According to the State Department’s  2010 report  on state
sponsors of terrorism, “Cuba continued to denounce U.S.
counterterrorism efforts throughout the world, portraying them
as a pretext to extend U.S. influence and power.”  Cuba is a sponsor of terrorism, in other words, because it
is critical of America’s war on terrorism. By this definition,
many of America’s elected officials are sponsors of terrorism.  The report goes on, “Cuba has been used as a transit point
by third-country nationals looking to enter illegally into the
United States.” By this definition,  Canada  is also a sponsor of
terrorism.  And what are the Cubans doing about this problem? “The
Government of Cuba is aware of the border integrity and
transnational security concerns posed by such transit and
investigated third country migrant smuggling and related
criminal activities.”  Oh, and by the way, the Cubans also “allowed
representatives of the  Transportation Security Administration  to
conduct a series of airport security visits throughout the
island.” A very clever cooptation by a terrorist state,
apparently.  The department’s 2009  report  acknowledged that Cuba
“publicly condemned acts of terrorism by al-Qa’ida and its
affiliates,” but still made the point that the government in
 Havana  was “critical of the U.S. approach to combating
international terrorism.”  And it detailed another of Cuba’s treacheries: “The
government of Cuba has long assisted members of the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of  Colombia  (FARC), the National
Liberation Army of Colombia (ELN), and  Spain ’s Basque Homeland
and Freedom Organization (ETA), some having arrived in Cuba in
connection with peace negotiations with the governments of
Colombia and Spain.”  I asked Julia E. Sweig, the Latin America expert at the
 Council on Foreign Relations , what to make of this claim. She
said, “Cuba hosted peace talks at the request of a succession
of Colombian governments. But Norway hosted the PLO during the
run-up to the Oslo peace process. Did this make Norway a state
sponsor of terror?”  Cuba is a one-party state, of course, and its people
deserve to be free. Just last week, Cuba hosted the president of
a terrorist state,  Iran . This is perfidious, but it doesn’t make
Cuba a state sponsor of terrorism.  Harsh Consequences  The State Department’s list has consequences. Harsh
sanctions automatically accompany the designation of a country
as a sponsor of terrorism. And it is used as a guide by U.S.
allies when they formulate foreign policy.  In total, there are four countries listed. Syria and Iran
are two. This makes sense to me. But the final country is  Sudan .
Here is what the State Department’s most recent report on Sudan
says about its dastardly activities: “Sudan remained a
cooperative partner in global counterterrorism efforts against
al-Qa’ida (AQ) in 2010.”  Come again? Sudan cooperates in American anti-terrorism
activities? The report goes on, “During the past year, the
Government of Sudan worked actively to counter AQ operations
that posed a potential threat to U.S. interests and personnel in
Sudan. Sudanese officials have indicated that they viewed
continued cooperation with the  United States  as important and
recognized the potential benefits of U.S. training and
information-sharing.”  Sudan isn’t ruled by good or generous people, and its
government violates the rights of its citizens in diverse ways,
but how could it be a state sponsor of terrorism when the State
Department labels it an ally in fighting terrorists?  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is aware of the
flaws in this list. One senior administration official
acknowledged to me that some of its features are absurd. But he
argued that including a country draws attention to its
wrongdoing and makes other nations think twice about doing
business with it.  In reality, though, the list is hopelessly corrupted by
politics. If it was an exercise in analytical honesty, Cuba
would be the first country removed. But no administration would
risk the wrath of the Cuba lobby in  Washington  by doing so. This
is to our detriment, as much as it is to Cuba’s.  So why have a list at all? I wouldn’t argue for Pakistan’s
inclusion, even though elements of the Pakistani government
support terrorism, because the U.S. shouldn’t handcuff itself in
dealing with complicated and dangerous countries. If the list is
to remain, it should at least be renamed: The State Department’s
List of Countries That, for One Reason or Another, We Have
Decided to Despise.  It’s a mouthful, but at least it reflects reality.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 