-- DRB Agrees to Acquire Proton Holdings
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-01-17T02:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/drb-agrees-to-acquire-proton-holdings.html
Proton Holdings Bhd. (PROH)  (PROH), the Malaysian
owner of Lotus sports car, climbed the most in a week in  Kuala
Lumpur  trading after  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB)  (DRB) agreed to buy a controlling
43 percent stake in the carmaker.  The  stock  rose as much as 5.4 percent, the most since Jan.
9, to 5.46 ringgit at 10:28 a.m. after Billionaire Syed Mokhtar
Al-Bukhary’s DRB said yesterday it agreed to buy the stake for
1.29 billion ringgit ($412 million), or 5.50 ringgit a share,
from state-run investment fund  Khazanah Nasional Bhd.  HwangDBS
Vickers Research Sdn. and AMMB Holdings Bhd. said in reports
that investors should accept the general offer that will be
extended to minority shareholders.  Proton, which had two annual  net losses  over the past five
years, paves the way for Syed Mokhtar to widen his share of the
Southeast Asian country’s car industry and expand a business
empire that already includes ports, airports and power plants.
Selangor-based Proton gives DRB control of two Malaysian car
plants able to make 350,000 vehicles per year, more than the
total number of cars sold in  Switzerland  annually.  The “turnaround will take time,” Loke Wei Wern, an
analyst at  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , wrote in a report today.
“This is an opportunity for minority shareholders to exit the
company.”  Proton investors should switch their holdings to DRB after
holding out for the general offer, Loke said in the report.  DRB  distributes and assembles motorcycles to garbage trucks
for global carmakers from  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  to  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) 
and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz. The  shares  fell fell as much as
3.7 percent to 2.09 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  