-- DS Smith to Buy Svenska Packaging Unit for $2B
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-01-17T08:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/ds-smith-to-buy-svenska-packaging-unit-for-2b.html
DS Smith Plc (SMDS)  agreed to buy a
packaging business from Swedish tissue maker  Svenska Cellulosa
AB (SCAB)  for 1.6 billion euros ($2 billion) to become Europe’s largest
supplier of recycled cartons for  consumer goods .  DS Smith plans a rights offering to raise 466 million
pounds ($717 million) to help finance the purchase, the London-
based company said in a statement today. It will also use
existing and additional debt.  “SCA Packaging is a well-invested business with long
positions in recycling and packaging and short paper capacity
that is very complementary to our strengths,” DS Smith Chief
Executive Officer Miles Roberts said in today’s statement.  The acquisition follows DS Smith’s purchase of a
controlling stake in French packagers  Otor SA (OTOR)  in 2010. SCA
Packaging is the second-largest packaging business in  Europe  and
will provide DS Smith with access to “new geographical markets
across continental Europe” and “substantially” improve
earnings per share, the British company said.  DS Smith rose as much as 8 percent in London trading, the
sharpest gain in almost seven months, and was up 2.2 percent at
208 pence at 8:13 a.m. Svenska Cellulosa surged as much as 8.6
percent, the most since July 2010, and was up 7.7 percent in
 Stockholm .  SCA Unit Earnings  The packaging operations, excluding two kraftliner mills
that aren’t included in the purchase, had net revenue of about
24.2 billion kronor ($3.49 billion) in 2010 and operating profit
excluding restructuring costs of about 1.1 billion kronor, SCA
said in a statement.  DS Smith proposes to issue nine new ordinary shares for
every eight existing shares, it said. The purchase price is
equal to a multiple of 6.3 times 12-month earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, SCA said.  The purchase will give DS Smith an expected return on
capital above its weighted average cost of capital for the first
full financial year of ownership with further improvement in the
second and third years, the company said.  DS Smith said its net debt should return to 2 times Ebitda
by the end of the first full financial year after the deal is
completed. Standard Life Investments Ltd., the U.K. company’s
largest shareholder, supports the acquisition, DS Smith said.  The purchase is expected to close in the second quarter of
this calendar year, DS Smith said.  For SCA, the sale will “enable increased growth in the
hygiene business,” Chief Executive Officer Jan Johansson said
in a separate statement. SCA plans acquisitions in that area, he
said on a conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net 
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  