-- The Trouble With Private Equity Is Privilege Not Profits: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-17T23:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/the-trouble-with-private-equity-is-special-privileges-not-profits-view.html
Mitt Romney , the favorite to win the
Republican presidential nomination, has brought the rights and
wrongs of private equity to the front of U.S. politics. He once
ran a private-equity firm, and he has been attacked for it even
by fellow conservatives.  This is a new version of an old complaint, and the quality
of the discussion is not improving with age. The question to ask
about private equity -- which involves taking over companies,
restructuring them and selling them at a profit -- is not
whether it creates jobs. It is whether taxpayers should be
subsidizing its practitioners’ paychecks.  Many politicians say private equity is rapacious. Not long
ago, the same charge was laid against leveraged buyouts, and
before that against hostile takeovers. The issue is essentially
the same. When control of a company changes hands, are the new
owners so intent on short-term profits that they act against the
interests of other stakeholders -- not just shareholders, but
also employees, customers and the wider community?  The current debate has revolved around jobs. Defenders of
private equity say the new owners tend to boost employment, and
critics say the opposite.  Small Effect  The most comprehensive  study  to date -- by Steven Davis of
the  University of Chicago  and four other economists, one of whom
has been a paid adviser to the private-equity industry -- found
that private equity has only a small overall effect on
employment. The researchers looked at 3,200 target companies and
roughly 150,000 operating units (factories, offices, retail
outlets and so on). They found that the acquired companies lost
jobs at existing units but added jobs at new ones. Altogether,
employment at companies bought by private-equity investors fell
in the first two years by less than 1 percent relative to
employment at similar companies.  More revealing than the net effect on jobs was gross
employment turnover -- jobs created plus jobs eliminated. This
total was 13 percent higher for private-equity targets than the
control group. In other words, companies bought by private
equity both fired more people and hired more people. The study
concluded that “private equity buy-outs catalyze the creative
destruction process.”  Exactly. In a market economy, some companies or industries
are shrinking, while others are growing. You can’t have one
without the other, and the spur for both kinds of adjustment is
profit. Market forces raise living standards not by increasing
wages and employment enterprise by enterprise, but by applying
capital and labor to the best uses. Private equity, leveraged
buyouts and hostile takeovers all serve this purpose. To keep
managers on their toes, capitalism requires a functioning market
for corporate control.  Now let’s suppose, contrary to the findings just quoted,
that private-equity owners always reduce jobs. Suppose they
always drive  wages  down, too, as some critics say. Would this
prove that private equity is bad? Before you answer, remember
that -- again at the level of the company, not for the whole
economy -- labor-saving innovation also tends to have those
effects. So does competition from new entrants. Such is
capitalism.  If private-equity owners cut costs and improve efficiency,
they are doing what incumbent managers should have done already.
If the new owners manage incompetently, they will lose money. As
for investors’ selfish motives,  Adam Smith  gave the wisest
advice 250 years ago: “It is not from the benevolence of the
butcher, the brewer, or the baker, that we can expect our
dinner, but from their regard to their own interest.”  Valid Concerns  While politicians focus on misguided complaints about
private equity, valid concerns are all but ignored. Two are
pressing and closely related: debt and political influence.  The private-equity business relies on borrowing. If
government policy were neutral on the matter, leverage and the
risk that goes with it would be for managers old or new to
decide. But policy is far from neutral. The U.S. tax code
discriminates strongly in favor of leverage, for example, by
giving companies a tax break on interest payments. Without this
bias -- which should be reduced as part of a larger  tax reform  -
-  the private-equity business would be conducted differently,
if it existed at all.  Private-equity and other high-paying financial firms also
receive a tailored preference in the form of special tax rates
on “carried interest.” This allows income to be taxed as if it
were  capital gains , hence at 15 percent instead of 35 percent,
even if the person concerned has put no capital at risk. Romney
said Tuesday that his effective federal tax rate is “probably
closer to the 15 percent rate.” Efforts to close this loophole -
- a move Bloomberg View supports -- have come to nothing,
demonstrating how private equity has made an art of political
connections and influence.  If private equity can succeed without preferences, that’s
fine: The more competitive the market for corporate control, the
better. Its current mode of operation, though, is largely a
symptom of a flawed  tax code . The industry’s borrowing is
subsidized and so are the generous incomes it pays its staff.
These privileges are a problem. The issues its critics choose to
emphasize aren’t.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 