-- Eastern Europe May Need Funding Deal to Avert Credit Drought
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-01-18T13:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/eastern-europe-may-need-funding-deal-to-cushion-effect-of-bank-asset-cuts.html
Eastern Europe may require funds
from the  International Monetary Fund  and other international
lenders to preempt a banking crisis and a shortage of credit in
the region’s economies as western banks pare assets.  The IMF, the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, the World Bank and the  European Investment Bank ,
which spent $42 billion after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc., should “stand ready to provide external
assistance and financial support to banks,” the Vienna
Initiative group of regulators and policy makers said in a
statement after a meeting in the Austrian capital on Jan. 16.
The risk of “excessive and disorderly deleveraging as well as a
credit crunch” looms over the region, they said.  “There is a very strong impact from this -- a potentially
strong impact,” EBRD’s Chief Economist  Erik Berglof  said in an
interview during a Euromoney conference yesterday in Vienna.
“You have the headquarters making decisions on assets that are
very small when you look at the total balance sheet, but when
you look at the subsidiaries in eastern  Europe  they are systemic
in the countries where they operate.”  Regulators and policy makers are trying to shield economic
growth in eastern Europe against contagion from the euro area’s
deepening debt crisis. New capital and liquidity requirements
for the western lenders controlling three-quarters of eastern
Europe’s banking system threaten to curb credit needed to fund
the region’s companies and households.  ‘Especially Virulent’  Deleveraging by western European banks may make credit in
eastern Europe scarcer, the World Bank’s  Andrew Burns  was quoted
as saying in Austrian newspaper Wiener Zeitung today.  “The problem is especially virulent in eastern Europe and
central  Asia  because those countries strongly depend on loans
from developed countries,” Burns said.  A revival of the Vienna Initiative is needed because there
must be a recognition that “there is still a coordination
failure” between eastern and western Europe to tackle banking
risks,  Piroska Nagy , director of country strategy and policy at
the EBRD, said at the Vienna conference.  The IMF, EIB, EBRD and the  World Bank  “will engage at a
heightened level with the region,” Nagy said today in an
interview, without elaborating further.  ‘Talking About Change’  “Now we are talking about change, accommodating and
financing change as opposed to maintaining support,” Nagy said.
“There’s deleveraging, there’s recapitalization, regulatory
changes, there’s a lot going on. Change is fine and good, but it
has to be managed in a way that doesn’t cause systemic risks.”  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , the biggest lenders in the former communist
countries, are raising capital, shedding assets and tightening
funding of subsidiaries to meet new rules imposed by the
European Banking Authority and national authorities.  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) ,  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  are next in
the ranking of eastern European banks.  Unicredit SpA, the largest lender in eastern Europe by
assets, said today the need to pump money into the region wasn’t
as pressing as it was three years ago when capital flows dried
up.  “The major problem today is in western Europe rather than
in eastern Europe,” Gianni Papa, who heads the Italian bank’s
eastern European business, said in an interview in Vienna. “For
the time being we think the risk of contraction is very limited.
We don’t have to put in place very strong action as it was
needed in 2008.”  ‘Concern About Commitment’  “There is some concern about some of the big strategic
banks in the region in terms of their commitment,” Berglof
said.  By the end of June, European banks must have core capital
reserves of 9 percent after writing down their holdings of
sovereign debt, European Union leaders decided in October. That
may require an additional 115 billion euros ($149 billion) of
capital, according to the EBA.  Austria told its three biggest banks to limit lending in
eastern Europe to 1.1 times the funding they can raise locally.
It also imposed a capital surcharge whose size depends on their
eastern European business. Austrian banks collectively are the
biggest lenders in eastern Europe, and the risk they may need
more state aid was the main reason cited by  Standard & Poor’s  in
downgrading the country’s debt rating last week.  ‘More Local Funding’  “For a long time the banks were simply a very important
source for and channel of funds into the region,” the EBRD’s
Berglof said. “We have to realize that cross-border banking
isn’t going to be the same. We have to outline a path to more
local funding of the banks.”  Austria’s financial market regulator, the FMA, told the
European Commission that its plans to limit commercial banks’
east European lending involves no sanctions on banks that don’t
comply, meaning there is no contravention of EU law, the
Financial Times reported today, citing the FMA.  The international lenders, which had pledged 24.5 billion
euros in 2009 to avert a systemic banking crisis in eastern
Europe and eventually disbursed 33 billion euros, didn’t promise
a specific fund this time.  “Vienna 2.0 is shaping up to be a damp squib,” said
William Jackson, an analyst at  Capital Economics . “While we
think that the measures outlined are useful, we are somewhat
skeptical about whether they would be sufficient in a worst case
scenario. There is quite a sharp contrast between this
announcement and that back in 2009, when the IMF et al. put
almost 25 billion euros on the table.”  ‘High Risk’  A “number” of countries in the East, including  Hungary ,
 Bulgaria , Croatia and  Romania  are “at high risk of a banking
crisis,” Jackson said.  UniCredit needs 7.97 billion euros of capital, or
equivalent asset cuts, to meet the new requirements, according
to the European Banking Authority.  Erste, the region’s second-biggest, requires 743 million
euros, while Raiffeisen, the third biggest, has a 2.1 billion-
euro shortfall. While all of them have reiterated that eastern
Europe is a central part of their business and they won’t
abandon the region, they also said that they are raising their
 capital ratios  at least partly by reducing assets.  ‘Not Credit Crunch’  Banks may also reduce funding by as much as 30 billion
euros this year, Raiffeisen board member Patrick Butler said at
the Vienna conference, adding that this amount was small
compared with how much was transferred to the region in the boom
years until 2008.  “Compare that to the growth that we saw in 2006 or 2007 of
200 billion euros a year -- it’s minimal,” Butler said. “It is
not a credit crunch.”  The Vienna group urged western European regulators and
policy makers to align their demands to recapitalize banks and
to consider the effects on subsidiaries in other countries.  “It is important that home country authorities internalize
the cross-border effects on EU and non-EU countries in
formulating their measures,” the group said in its statement.
“In particular, the recapitalization plans of international
banks submitted to the EBA should be scrutinized” for their
“systemic impact on host economies.”  ‘Excessive Reliance’  Eastern European regulators and central banks “should
further the development of local sources of funding as market
size permits so that banks can reduce excessive reliance on
capital inflows,” the group said. “Information sharing between
home and host authorities should be stepped up to avoid
unnecessary ring fencing of liquidity.”  Their engagement prompted Austrian lenders, together with
their Finance Ministry and central bank, to start the Vienna
Initiative in 2009. The group helped stabilize the region that
year by a collective commitment by the banks not to reduce their
lending in the region, backed up by the international lenders’
funding program.  “At the time of Vienna One, there was this fear that the
banks might withdraw liquidity rapidly,” Raiffeisen’s Butler
said. “Vienna Two is much more a discussion among the
regulators and the public sector to ensure there aren’t steps
taken which will prevent the banks doing their job.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  