-- Economic Regime-Change Can Stop Iran Bomb: Gerecht and Dubowitz
-- B y   R e u e l   M a r c   G e r e c h t   a n d   M a r k   D u b o w i t z
-- 2012-01-17T00:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/economic-regime-change-can-stop-iran-commentary-by-gerecht-and-dubowitz.html
Iran ’s threat to close the  Strait of
Hormuz , the choke-point for Persian Gulf oil shipments, reveals
how deeply the latest Western sanctions -- and the threat of
even tougher measures -- have spooked the clerical regime.  Yet, as the U.S. and its allies aim to tighten the noose,
they have to consider two new realities. First, given the
progress we now know Iran has made on its atomic-weapons
programs, there is little reason to think the leadership will
voluntarily disarm. (Unfortunately, if a nuclear-armed Iran is
truly unacceptable, military action is the most likely route to
success -- and the window for that option is closing fast.)  Second, if we are going to pursue tougher international
sanctions against Iran -- and we should -- the goal should be
regime change in Iran, not stopping proliferation. In fact,
regime change would make the idea of an Iranian bomb far more
tolerable.  For the first time since  Iraq  invaded Iran in 1980, Iran’s
leadership fears for its oil wealth. Yet the Barack Obama
administration, which has justifiably applauded itself for
advancing sanctions, appears hesitant to implement aggressively
Congressional legislation against Iran’s central bank -- the
punishment the clerical regime dreads most, as it is the
critical financial institution for petroleum sales.  Politics of Oil  The White House’s hesitancy is understandable. Central-bank
sanctions would be a redefining moment for the administration,
which came into office eager to talk to Iran’s virulently anti-
American supreme ruler, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Effective
central-bank sanctions could shatter Iran’s economy, and would
quash any hopes for progress through engagement. And, if imposed
rashly, sanctions could also shock the oil markets, possibly
causing considerable political trouble for Obama in an election
year.  A nasty conjunction has developed in 2012. The
 International Atomic Energy Agency ’s recent revelations about
the military dimensions to  Iran’s nuclear program  have shrunk
the timeline for a Persian bomb. Israeli and French calculations
that Iran could produce a weapon within 18 months seem
increasingly credible; 2012 might not be the year of nuclear-
armed theocrats, but it could well turn out to be the last year
in which a preventive military strike against Iran’s nuclear
sites would possibly still be effective.  Since the death of the Islamic Republic’s founder,
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, in 1989, too many Western
politicians have played up any sign of moderation in Iran’s
revolutionary politics and ignored the regime’s continuing
penchant for violence. However, should the West wake up one
morning to find that Iran’s Revolutionary Guard possesses a
functional atomic bomb, it would become harder to play down
Iran’s longstanding relationship with al-Qaeda and other
militant Islamic terrorist groups; the alleged plot to blow up a
Saudi ambassador in a  Washington  restaurant; the killing of U.S.
troops in Iraq and  Afghanistan ; and the entire mind-set that
sees embassy-sacking and hostage-taking as statecraft.  There is also the role of the 2012  U.S. presidential
election  to consider. Let’s face it: Obama is probably more
concerned at the moment about sharp oil-price increases, which
could occur if American and European sanctions stopped Iranian
oil from reaching the market, than a still-theoretical Persian
bomb. An Israeli attack on Iran’s nuclear sites, which could
also cause the price of oil to soar by $50 per barrel or more,
might seem equally worrisome for his re-election chances.  Yet that’s not the case. An Israeli strike (or an American
one) would not necessarily be damaging politically, especially
since Obama’s likely challenger,  Mitt Romney , has said he won’t
allow Iran to go nuclear. Depending upon how he responded to an
Israeli raid or an Iranian provocation that forced an American
military strike, Obama electorally could gut the Republican
national-security challenge.  Short-Term Increases  And, as oil analysts at the  International Energy Agency  in
Paris will tell you privately, an Israeli or American military
strike against Iran’s nuclear sites would likely cause only
short-term price increases, so long as Iranian oil
infrastructure wasn’t damaged (an angry clerical regime would
still need to sell petroleum). Iran might go on the warpath in
the  Persian Gulf , which would certainly roil the oil market, but
the U.S. Navy’s war-gaming of this scenario -- two weeks to
knock out the Iranian military -- is probably accurate. Western
governments could also release emergency reserves; anti-Iranian,
oil-rich Arab states might also put more oil into the market.  A truly effective embargo of Iranian crude, conversely,
would have a lasting impact, given the tightness in the global
oil market. Iran’s exports of around 2.5 million barrels a day
are about equivalent to the amount of minimum  spare capacity  the
market needs to see before it prices in a significant  risk
premium . This means that increased production by  Saudi Arabia ,
 Kuwait  and the  United Arab Emirates  probably couldn’t completely
offset the disappearance of Iranian crude without causing market
anxiety over the decreased spare capacity being too low to
respond to further supply disruptions or seasonal demand
fluctuations. Gasoline at $5 a gallon on Election Day is a real
possibility.  Not only would a total ban on Iranian oil threaten to
hamper the global recovery, it’s difficult to imagine sanctions
actually stopping the nuclear program if the Islamic Republic
truly requires fewer than two years to produce a bomb. No one
has a precise idea of how much money Tehran still needs for the
program, but the most expensive part of the undertaking -- the
construction of centrifuges and the development of long-range
ballistic missiles -- is mostly complete.  Iran currently earns about $80 billion per year from oil
and natural gas sales, about 20 percent of its gross domestic
product. The Obama administration estimates that sanctions
currently on the books will cost Iran about $14 billion in oil
revenues annually over five years. This would still leave the
clerical regime with the few billions of dollars required to
build an atomic weapon.  So, are we stuck with a choice between two grim options --a
military strike or nuclear-armed mullahs? There is a more
optimistic long-term option: to use careful, comprehensive
sanctions in a way that gives rise to the sort of popular
economic discontent that led to the uprisings in the Arab world
a year ago.  Tsunami of Sanctions  A quick tsunami of sanctions is possible if the U.S. and
the European Union impose them on Iran’s  Central Bank  in a
manner that effectively makes it impossible for most countries
to purchase Iranian crude. If it really wanted to, the EU, which
purchases about 20 percent of Iran’s oil, could rapidly ban the
importation of the Islamic Republic’s petroleum. The Europeans
obviously have differences on when and how comprehensively they
should prohibit the import of Iranian oil. Momentum has
certainly built for a total ban, but it still remains unclear
whether the EU can act rapidly.  Acting alone, officials in Washington could move more
expeditiously -- a six-month phase-in of economy-crushing
central-bank sanctions is practicable, though not obligatory for
the president, under current Congressional legislation. However,
election-year concerns will certainly encourage Obama to show
caution on any price-spiking approach. Politics aside, caution
is wise: It makes no sense to implement sanctions that increase
the price of oil but allow Iran to sell less petroleum for more
money.  One way to guard against a severe shock in oil markets
would be to selectively choose targets for economic punishment,
as opposed to a blanket ban, thereby channeling Iran’s oil sales
into a smaller pool of buyers. The objective here is to reduce
Iranian oil revenue, which can be accomplished through fewer
purchases of Iranian crude, or through drops in the price Iran
receives per barrel, or both. We could choose which nations and
companies we wanted to punish for doing business with Iran’s
central bank, and let other (namely  China ) off the hook for the
time being.  This would lead to an oligopsony effect, in which a reduced
pool of buyers would allow purchasers of Iranian crude to demand
discounts -- the fewer the buyers, the bigger the discounts. If
the Saudis, Kuwaitis and Emiratis -- the only major exporters
with substantial spare capacity --- increased production, this
would further force down Iranian oil revenue.  One advantage of this plan is that neither the U.S. nor the
EU would have to confront China, a major consumer of Iranian
crude; they would just want the Chinese to buy as much petroleum
as they want from Tehran at the best price possible. The U.S.
Treasury Department would not need to interfere in all the
normal commercial activities of the Iranian central bank; it
would just selectively prohibit oil transactions denominated in
dollars.  Support for Terrorism  To further fortify this approach, Washington can sanction
Iranian companies, primarily the National Iranian Oil Co. and
its subsidiaries and other enterprises active in Iran’s oil-
supply chain that are owned directly or indirectly by the
Revolutionary Guard Corps, which oversees both the nuclear
program and terrorist operations. (NIOC is now headed, like so
many important organizations in Iran, by a “former”
Revolutionary Guard commander, himself under EU and U.S.
sanctions).  Officials in Washington could also establish the U.S. as an
Iranian-oil-free-zone, closing a loophole in the law that allows
for the importation of refined products made from Iranian crude,
such as gasoline and some plastics.  Economic modeling on all these selectively-enforced
sanctions suggests that the Chinese, who are already demanding
discounts from Tehran, could see the price of Iranian crude drop
by as much as 40 percent. If the Saudis and other Gulf Arabs
wanted to punish the Iranians by putting more oil into the
market, the pressure for discounts would be even greater.  Such a revenue drop would probably convulse the Iranian
economy. But we doubt it would lead Khamenei and his praetorian
Revolutionary Guard to cry “uncle.”  Halting the nuclear-
weapons program and allowing foreign inspectors unchallenged
access to any facility in the country would be a complete loss
of face and would undermine the combination of prestige,
attraction and fear of established power -- what Iranians call
heybat -- that sustains Khamenei’s rule (and that he almost lost
during the protests after the fraudulent presidential election
in 2009).  For the supreme leader and his guards, Iran is center stage
in the great Islamic passion play, where their faithfulness
stops Westernization and the U.S.. Secularized Americans and
Europeans have poorly appreciated the tenacity and appeal of
this salvation narrative to the Islamic Republic’s rulers.
Designing sanctions to make Khamenei relent in his 30-year quest
for the bomb is a delusion; sanctions that could contribute to
popular unrest and political tumult are not.  The Great Arab
Revolt and its forerunner, the Iranian summer of 2009, were
propelled by profound economic frustration as well as
indignation at tyranny.  Through sanctions, a democratic counterrevolution in Persia
might be reborn. A democratic Iran might keep the bomb that
Khamenei built.  But the U.S.,  Israel ,  Europe , and probably most
of the Arab world would likely live with it without that much
fear.  Khamenei and his loyal guard are unlikely to go down
peacefully. The clerical regime had a violent beginning; its end,
whenever it comes, may be far worse.  (Reuel Marc Gerecht, a former Central Intelligence Agency
officer, is a senior fellow at the Foundation for Defense of
Democracies.  Mark Dubowitz  is the executive director of the
foundation and the head of its Iran Energy Project. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this column:
Reuel Marc Gerecht at  reuel@defenddemocracy.org  and Mark Dubowitz at  mark@defenddemocracy.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  