-- Egypt Offers Dollar T-Bills Today After Fourth Deficit Revision
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-01-17T10:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/egypt-offers-dollar-t-bills-today-after-fourth-deficit-revision.html
Egypt will offer $1 billion in one-
year dollar-denominated treasury bills today as the nation seeks
to cut borrowing costs after revising its  budget deficit  target
and asking the  International Monetary Fund  for a loan.  The Finance Ministry raised $2.53 billion in two auctions
of the notes in the last two months, paying an average yield of
about 3.9 percent. That compares with 15.555 percent the country
paid to sell  one-year local -currency notes last week. The dollar
notes are exempt from a 2 percent tax paid by holders of pound-
denominated treasuries.  The budget deficit is targeted to reach 144 billion
Egyptian pounds ($23.8 billion), or 8.7 percent of gross
domestic product, in the year that ends in June, Fayza
Aboulnaga, minister of planning and international cooperation,
said yesterday. The deficit target has been revised four times.  Egypt  formally asked the IMF for a $3.2 billion loan to
support an 18-month economic-reform plan that it’s seeking to
have a proposal for in the next few weeks, Aboulnaga said. The
IMF won’t set lending conditions and will measure progress
according to government goals,  Masood Ahmed , the agency’s
director for the  Middle East  and Central Asia said.  In addition, the central bank will offer 14 billion pounds
in seven-day repurchase agreements today, allowing government
security holders to sell them back to the regulator to access
funds at a rate of 9.75 percent. Egypt started the facility last
March to ease pressure on bank funds that grew increasingly
committed to government securities as foreign investors exited
the market amid political unrest.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due April
2020 fell six basis points, or 0.06 of a percentage point, to
8.22 percent, the lowest level in almost two weeks, at 12:30
p.m. in Cairo.  The pound  was little changed at 6.0403 a dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  