-- Emerging Stocks Rise to Two-Month High as China Data Fuels Policy Optimism
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-01-17T22:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/emerging-stocks-rise-to-two-month-high-as-china-data-fuels-policy-optimism.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the benchmark index to a two-month high, after China’s gross
domestic product expanded more than estimated and reports showed
strength in the U.S. and German economies.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 2.2 percent to
972.35 at the close in  New York , the highest since Nov. 14. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 4.2 percent, the most since
October 2009. Benchmark gauges in Russia, Poland and  India  rose
more than 1 percent, as South Africa’s index hit a record high.
The Bovespa gained for a second day in  Sao Paulo .  China’s economy  expanded 8.9 percent in the three months
ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast an 8.7 percent
gain. Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in January
at the fastest pace in nine months, and German investor
confidence increased the most on record.  “The importance of a soft landing of the Chinese economy
for asset prices in the world is hard to overestimate,” Slava Smolyaninov and Leonid Slipchenko at UralSib Capital in Moscow
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.  China  relaxed lenders’ reserve requirements in December for
the first time since 2008 as inflation slowed to a 15-month low
and exports gained the least in two years amid  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  Chinese Easing  “There’s speculation that the government will ease
monetary policies such as cutting the reserve requirement
ratio,” said Dai Ming, a  fund manager  at Shanghai Kingsun
Investment Management & Consulting Co. “There are also high
expectations that more direct measures to support stocks will be
unveiled.”  Chinese equities trade for 9.4 times projected earnings,
below the 9.9 multiple for the MSCI Emerging Markets index.
Developed-nation shares are valued at 11.8 times earnings.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities climbed
1.2 percent.  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, jumped 4.1
percent in Brazil after saying it will pay at least $6 billion
of dividends this year. The benchmark  Bovespa (IBOV)  index rose 1.1
percent to a six-month high.  The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  jumped 1.1 percent in Warsaw as  KGHM Polska
Miedz SA (KGH) , Poland’s only copper producer, surged 3.6 percent.  The  Micex Index (MICEX)  rose 1.5 percent in Moscow and the  FTSE/JSE
Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  gained 0.7 percent in Johannesburg,
reaching a record.  Twenty-three of 25 emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg appreciated against the dollar. The  Indian rupee 
strengthened 1.3 percent and the rand rose 1 percent.
Argentina’s peso and Brazil’s real slipped 0.1 percent  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 1.7 percent
to a five-week high as data from the markets regulator showed
foreign funds had bought stocks for nine straight days, bringing
net purchases to $559 million this year after pulling out $512
million in 2011.  Korean Inflows  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  jumped 1.8 percent as overseas
investors bought more Korean shares than they sold for a sixth
day, building on net purchases of $995 million this month
through yesterday, exchange data showed.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 437, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in  Hong Kong  at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  