-- Mesirow Raises Cash Level for European Credit Investment Opportunities
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-01-17T00:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/mesirow-raises-cash-level-for-european-credit-investment-opportunities.html
Mesirow Advanced Strategies Inc. ,
which allocates $14 billion to  hedge funds , has been
increasing the amount of cash it holds in the last couple of
months in preparation for potential opportunities including
those in the European credit markets.  “What we want to have is the flexibility that if
particular things do deteriorate, we can play offense
relatively quickly, being able to put capital to work in
interesting opportunities,” Marty Kaplan, chief executive
officer of the Chicago-based fund of hedge funds manager,
said in an interview.  European banks are under pressure to shrink their
balance sheets, reduce risk and raise capital to withstand
writedowns as the region’s debt crisis worsens and to comply
with new regulatory capital requirement. Hedge funds
including Och-Ziff Capital Management Group and Marathon
Asset Management LP have said they’re awaiting opportunities
to buy assets.  European banks may sell stressed and distressed assets,
ranging from performing loans of lower quality to distressed
loans across a variety of industries to reduce their
borrowings, said Greg Fedorinchik, a Chicago-based senior
managing director heading Mesirow’s global client
relationship team. Both officials declined to quantify the
increases in cash holdings.  The European Banking Authority in December ordered banks
to raise 115 billion euros ($146 billion) by June. Banks
across  Europe  have announced plans to trim more than 950
billion euros of assets from their balance sheets over the
next two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Value  Kaplan said Mesirow may also deploy more capital to
 relative-value  strategies such as capital structure arbitrage,
which seeks to profit from mispricing of different securities
sold by the same company.  Mesirow has redeemed out of some strategies that take
more directional views on the markets, such as long-biased
equity and  event-driven  hedge funds that bet on corporate
activities such as mergers and acquisitions.  “As the situation in Europe deteriorates, right now you
don’t see tons of corporate activities because confidence in
board rooms has declined,” Kaplan said.  Mesirow generally favors credit over equities strategies,
said Kaplan, and prefers structured credit, which tends to be
mortgage-backed, over corporate credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  