-- Tesla Surges After CEO Says New Model S Unaffected by Departures
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-01-17T21:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/tesla-says-development-of-new-model-s-electric-car-on-schedule.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  surged the most
since March after the company’s chief executive said production
and sale of its all-electric Model S sedan won’t be delayed by
two top engineers leaving the carmaker. Tesla plunged a record
19 percent last week after news broke of their departure.  “I’m highly confident we’ll deliver at least 20,000 cars”
in 2013,  Elon Musk , Tesla’s chief executive officer and biggest
shareholder, said in a conference call today. “I’m highly
confident we’ll do better than the delivery date of the first
Model S cars being in July.”  Tesla rose 17 percent to $26.60 at the close in  New York ,
the most since March 31. The shares on Jan. 13 tumbled the most
since they began trading June 29, 2010, after Bloomberg reported
Peter Rawlinson, Tesla’s vice president and chief engineer, and
Nick Sampson, who supervised vehicle and chassis engineering,
left this month.  Tesla, the recipient of a $465 million U.S. loan to make
advanced autos, is to begin Model S luxury-car production at its
Fremont, California, plant by midyear. The company has said
initial units of the sedan will able to go as far as 300 miles
(480 kilometers) per charge and will sell for as much as $92,400
before a $7,500 tax credit.  Musk apologized for how news of the departures became
public, and said the  company  had planned to discuss the
personnel changes when fourth-quarter results are announced on
Feb. 15.  Biography Gone  “A positive was misconstrued as a negative development,”
Musk said. Tesla, which listed Rawlinson’s title on its website
as vice president and chief engineer as of Jan. 13, has removed
his corporate biography.  “He was not responsible for any of the powertrain
electronics, software or other elements of the car,” Musk said.
“I think his role was misunderstood by some as being chief
engineer of the whole vehicle, but that was not the case.”  Musk, referring to Sampson, said he “asked basically for
Nick’s resignation” because there wasn’t a “good fit for him
within the organization.”  Shares of the  Palo Alto , California-based company, named
for inventor Nikola Tesla, are particularly volatile as Tesla
remains an “unknown quantity” and the outlook for battery-
powered autos isn’t yet clear, said Alan Baum, principal of Baum
& Associates in West Bloomfield,  Michigan .  Volatile Stock  “It is in a market, electric vehicles, that’s in the
developmental stages, and it’s a start-up,” Baum said. “That
makes it a very high-risk, high-reward company for investors.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its rating on Tesla shares
to “buy” from “neutral.”  “The recent pullback offers an excellent tactical buying
opportunity,”  Himanshu Patel , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said in a note to investors today. The executive departures
“will ultimately prove manageable.”  Amir Rozwadowski, a New York-based analyst with  Barclays
Capital , said Tesla’s fall on Jan. 13 was a “shoot first”
reaction by investors. It “provides a rare buying opportunity
ahead of what we believe will be a strong multi-year product
cycle,” Rozwadowski, who has a “overweight” rating on the
shares, said in a research note today.  The Model S is Tesla’s second vehicle, following its
$109,000 Roadster, and is intended to expand the company’s sales
volume with a base model starting at $57,400, before the tax
credit. That version will go as far as 160 miles per charge. A
small sport-utility vehicle, called the Model X, is also in
development and will be shown Feb. 9, Musk said today.  Musk said on Jan. 13 that Jerome Guillen, formerly with
 Daimler AG (DAI) , will assume Rawlinson’s duties, and that Tesla hired
Eric Bach, a former  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  executive, “to help in the
final stretch of bringing Model S into production.”  Guillen and Bach are “better suited to this phase of
Tesla’s existence than Peter and Nick,” Musk said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  