-- Testing of Orange Juice for Fungicide by U.S. May Continue Through July
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   D u a n e   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-01-17T18:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/testing-of-orange-juice-for-fungicide-may-continue-through-july.html
A U.S. policy of temporarily holding
imported  orange juice  while samples are tested for a banned
fungicide may remain in place for as long as half a year, the
 Food and Drug Administration  said.  Twenty-eight samples of orange juice products taken at the
border await test findings after three units of orange juice
from  Canada  showed no measurable amounts of the chemical
carbendazim last week. Tests take as long as five days to
complete when no carbendazim is found. If results are
inconclusive, another seven days may be needed for additional
analysis, said  Siobhan DeLancey , an agency spokeswoman, in an
interview.  Continued testing “might be for a month or six months,”
DeLancey said. “It depends on what we find.”  The agency last week began holding imported orange juice
after trace levels of the chemical were detected in products
from  Brazil .  PepsiCo. Inc. (PEP)  also found traces of the fungicide in
its Tropicana orange juice at concentations below levels that
the U.S. says raises concern, according to a statement from the
Purchase, New York-based company.  “We will continue to test as we take this matter
seriously, and we’re working aggressively to address any
concerns,” the company said.  Carbendazim is banned in use in U.S. oranges and has been
linked to liver tumors in animals. European Union member states
are reviewing Brazilian growers’ use of the chemical this week
to determine whether more testing is needed.  U.S. regulators were alerted to use of the chemical in
December by Atlanta-based  Coca Cola Co., (KO)  which owns the Minute
Maid brand.  Reassuring Consumers  Drinking orange juice with the levels that had been
detected “does not raise safety concerns,” according to an FDA
letter to the  Juice Products Association , a Washington trade
group.  Companies are seeking to assure consumers that their orange
juice is safe.  “We source a significant amount of our orange juice for
the U.S. from  Florida ,” said Petro Kacur, a Coca Cola
spokesman, in an e-mailed statement today. “We rigorously test
all our ingredients using state of the art methods to ensure
that they meet our safety and quality standards.”  The FDA will report test results on Fridays, Delancey said.                 Imported juice containing concentrations of the chemical of
10 parts per billion or higher will be refused or destroyed,
DeLancey said. Testing is also being done on domestic orange
juice. That benchmark is 80 parts per billion because the
Environmental Protection Agency’s risk assessment says there are
no concerns at that level.  Americans consumed 1.2 million gallons from the 2009-2010
growing season, U.S. Department of Agriculture data shows. Most
juice sold in the U.S. is a mix of domestic and imported
product, according to the Juice Products Association.  The U.S. is the biggest single importer of orange juice and
took in 190,000 metric tons last year, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show. The 27-country European Union imported
800,000 tons last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net 
Duane Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  