-- Ethiopian Government Forcibly Relocates Thousands, Human Rights Watch Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-01-17T09:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/ethiopian-government-forcibly-relocates-thousands-human-rights-watch-says.html
Ethiopia ’s government is forcibly
moving “tens of thousands of indigenous people” in the western
Gambella region without consultation or compensation as part of
a resettlement program, Human Rights Watch said.  The so-called villagization program involved intimidation
and abuse of the ethnic Nuer and Anuak communities and left them
in areas where they face a lack of services and food shortages,
the New York-based advocacy group said in a report today.  Ethiopia leased at least 3.6 million hectares (8.9 million
acres) of land since 2008 to foreign and domestic investors,
according to HRW. About 42 percent of the total land area of
Gambella in southwestern Ethiopia has been marketed for lease or
awarded to investors and “many of the areas where people have
been forcibly removed” are within these areas, it said.  Ethiopia’s government says the clustering of scattered
households is to improve access to services in four remote
Ethiopian regions. In Gambella, more than 20,000 households, or
about 100,000 people, have moved so far, Federal Affairs
Minister Shiferaw Teklemariam said in a written response to HRW.
The government plans to relocate another 25,000 households in
the next two years. Gambella’s population is 307,000 people,
according to a 2007 census.  Allegations of human rights abuses are “downright
fabrications,” Shiferaw said. “It is rather mind-boggling to see
HRW claim that the fight against poverty is indeed a violation
of human rights.”  Food Surplus  All moves are voluntary, public services have been provided
and villagers are growing food surpluses for the “first time in
their history,” he said in the letter attached to the report.  The relocations have been marked by “threats and assaults,
and arbitrary arrest for those who resist the move,” according
to the  report , titled ‘Waiting Here for Death.’ “The state
security forces enforcing the population transfers have been
implicated in at least 20 rapes in the past year.”  HRW’s claim that Anuak people are being displaced from
towns is false and designed to “ignite a conflict among the
regions’ inhabitants”, according to Shiferaw. Villagization is
part of “efforts to tackle poverty and ignorance and to usher in
a new era of Ethiopian renaissance,” he said.  Donor funds that support local government are being used to
provide services in the new villages, HRW said. Ethiopia earns
6.4 percent of gross domestic product from donor grants,
compared with an average of 0.9 percent for all sub-Saharan
African nations, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  ‘Not Encouraged’  “The British government’s development assistance
in Ethiopia does not encourage or support ‘villagisation,’”
 Andrew Mitchell , the U.K.’s international development minister,
said in a statement e-mailed today. “We share HRW’s concerns
that promises made to communities are not being fulfilled.”  More than 100 people were interviewed for the report in
five of 12 districts in Gambella where the program is taking
place, HRW said. Researchers also spoke to Gambellan refugees in
neighboring  Kenya .  The government’s claim that a program to lease 1.2 million
hectares in Gambella, or around 40 percent of the region’s land,
for commercial farming is not linked to villagization is
inaccurate, according to HRW.  “Villagers have been told by local government officials
that this is an underlying reason for their displacement,” it
said. “Former local government officials told  Human Rights Watch 
the same thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 