-- Metro Suspends Negotiations on Kaufhof Sale as Market Rout Depresses Price
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-01-17T16:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/metro-says-kaufhof-talks-halted-on-market-conditions-sales-miss-estimates.html
Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s largest
retailer, said selling the Kaufhof department-store chain
remains part of its strategy after halting negotiations to
dispose of a unit that it has sought to exit since 2008.  Conditions for a sale are “not optimal,” Dusseldorf-based
Metro said today. Any transaction would require agreement on
price, financing and the future of the business and won’t
proceed while markets are “fragile,” a company spokesman said.  The shares rose 4.1 percent to 28.38 euros, halting four
days of declines, as Metro maintained its earnings forecast
after a drop in fourth-quarter sales. The retailer has held
talks on selling Kaufhof with bidders including Signa Holding
GmbH, an Austrian real-estate company managed by Rene Benko, and
Berggruen Holdings, the owner of the competing Karstadt chain.  “It’s probably better to keep Kaufhof for now if they
can’t get the price they want,” said Thomas Effler, a
Frankfurt-based analyst at WestLB AG. “We’ll probably see some
positive developments in the first and second quarters and
fundamentals might be attractive again then.”  Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch said market conditions
aren’t suitable “for such an important transaction.”  Berggruen respects Metro’s decision, a spokesman for the
New York-based company said by phone today. Signa said in a
statement that “postponed is not canceled.”  Metro’s fourth-quarter revenue fell 1.3 percent to 19.5
billion euros ($24.9 billion) amid a “disappointing” Christmas
season, the company said, missing the 19.7 billion-euro average
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Annual Earnings  The retailer reiterated that earnings before interest,
taxes and special items last year probably were “slightly
below” the 2.4 billion euros reported for 2010. Metro said in
November that earnings would rise 5 percent to 10 percent,
depending on Christmas sales.  Declining consumption has hurt sales at Metro, whose stores
include Saturn consumer-electronics outlets and  Real
hypermarkets (MEO) . German retail sales unexpectedly fell for a second
month in November as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis weighed on
the outlook for economic growth, a Jan. 5 report showed.  Revenue at Kaufhof dropped to 1.1 billion euros in the
fourth quarter from 1.2 billion euros a year earlier. Sales at
Cash & Carry,  Metro’s largest unit , were unchanged at 8.6
billion euros in the fourth quarter, while revenue at Media
Saturn was also unchanged at 6.6 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  