-- EU Tells Clinton It Won’t Abandon Carbon Limits for Airlines
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-17T13:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/eu-tells-clinton-it-won-t-abandon-carbon-emissions-limits-for-airlines.html
The European Union won’t abandon its
curbs on carbon dioxide discharges by international airlines and
sees the program as an incentive toward a global solution, the
bloc’s executive told U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  The 27-nation EU is ready to discuss the exemption of
incoming flights from the U.S. from its emissions trading system
should the world’s largest economy introduce “equivalent
measures” to cut pollution by the aviation industry, according
to a letter sent by the bloc’s transport and climate
commissioners to Clinton.  The European law will also be reviewed and amended when
countries worldwide reach an agreement to limit greenhouse gas
discharges from airlines, the EU said in the letter seen by
Bloomberg News.  The inclusion of airlines in the EU cap-and-trade program
as of this year has sparked opposition from countries including
the U.S.,  China  and  Russia , which said  Europe  should let the
 United Nations ’  International Civil Aviation Organization  decide
on greenhouse-gas limits for the industry. Clinton told the EU
in a letter last month that the U.S. will be compelled to take
appropriate action unless the bloc abandons its plan.  “We see the inclusion of aviation in the EU ETS as an
important contribution to, and a catalyst, towards global
action, rather than an obstacle,” according to the EU response
to Clinton dated Jan. 16. “We believe there’s now a growing
recognition of the need to move forwards in ICAO to develop a
global solution and we hope that the U.S. shares our view that
we must seize this opportunity.”  International Law  The ICAO adopted a non-binding declaration last year
calling on the EU to exempt international aircraft operators
from its curbs on carbon. The statement was supported by 26
countries, including the U.S.,  India ,  Japan  and  Brazil , which
said that the expansion of the EU program was inconsistent with
international law.  The organization aims to strike a deal next year creating a
global carbon market for the industry, Raymond Benjamin, its
secretary general, said in November. The organization plans to
present emission-reduction options, including a new market, to
ICAO’s 190 members as early as this month seeking agreement by
the end of 2012 and ratification by September 2013, he said.  Because the ICAO hasn’t drafted a proposal on a global
pollution-curbing program for airlines yet, it’s unlikely to
adopt one by its next general meeting in 2013, the German
government said in a statement last week.  Respecting Rules  “While remaining of the firm belief that respecting each
others’ rules and regulations is indispensable for deepening our
cooperation, we reaffirm the strong willingness of the EU and
its member states to work collaboratively with the U.S. and all
other international partners towards a global solution in
ICAO,” the EU said in the letter to Clinton. “We therefore
welcome the strong expression in your letter of the  United
States ’ readiness to redouble your efforts in collaboration with
the EU and other countries.”  The 27-member EU, which seeks to lead the worldwide fight
against  climate change , decided in 2008 that international
aviation should become a part of the world’s largest cap-and-
trade program after airline discharges in Europe doubled over
two decades.  International carriers will be given emission permits
making up 85 percent of the industry cap in 2012 and will have
to buy the remaining 15 percent at auctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  