-- EU Tells Hungary to End Meddling in Monetary, Judicial Matters
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-01-17T13:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/eu-tells-hungary-to-end-meddling-in-monetary-judicial-matters.html
The European Union threatened a
lawsuit against Hungary for encroaching on the central bank’s
independence, pressing Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  to resolve a
dispute that halted talks on international aid for the country.  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, also
started infringement proceedings against Orban’s government for
political meddling with the judiciary and the data-protection
authority. The commission is sending a warning letter about each
of the three matters and ordering Hungary to bring its
legislation into line with EU standards to avoid court cases.  “The decisions we have taken are a reflection of our
determination to make sure that EU law, both in letter and in
spirit, are fully respected,” commission President  Jose Barroso 
told reporters today in Strasbourg,  France . “We do not
want the shadow of doubt on respect for democratic principles
and values to remain over the country any longer.”  Hungary  has become a test case on respect for democratic
principles and economic-policy rules in the EU, forcing the
commission to make good on a pledge to use all its powers to
enforce the 27-nation bloc’s norms. Hungary, which is outside
the 17-nation euro area, risks compounding the two-year-old
European debt-crisis centered on the single currency.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and three
other members of the bank’s Executive Board met with Hungarian
officials in  Frankfurt  today and discussed Hungary’s economic
situation and changes to the central bank law, an ECB
spokeswoman said.  ‘Open to Dialogue’  The legal disputes involving Hungary follow political
criticism in EU institutions including the European Parliament
of Orban’s administration. The Strasbourg-based legislature
plans to hold a debate tomorrow on political developments in
Hungary; Orban will take part. Barroso said he’ll meet with
Orban in Brussels on Jan. 24.  Hungary is “open to dialogue” on any “concrete, legal”
issues the commission may raise concerning the country’s
legislation, government spokesman Andras Giro-Szasz told
reporters earlier today in Budapest.  Hungary is seeking to revive bailout talks with the EU and
International Monetary Fund, which suspended the negotiations
last month because of concerns that a new central-bank
regulation violates monetary-policy independence. The commission
said last week that it wouldn’t resume the rescue talks without
certainty that central-bank independence will be respected.  Forint Record  Hungary’s currency, the forint, may weaken to a record
against the euro, according to Societe Generale SA, which cited
the risk that the Hungarian government will drop its pursuit of
an aid deal with the EU and IMF.  Fitch Ratings  on Jan. 6
followed Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  in
downgrading Hungary’s sovereign-credit grade to junk.  Today’s EU legal threats involve an initial warning from
the commission to the Hungarian government through a “letter of
formal notice,” which usually sets a two-month deadline for a
reply. This process can lead to a lawsuit at the European court
after a second and final commission warning notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  