-- Europe Won’t Let U.S. Dominate Cloud With Rules to Curb HP: Tech
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-01-17T10:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/europe-won-t-let-u-s-dominate-cloud-with-rules-to-curb-hp-tech.html
European governments, determined not
to lose another technology battle to the U.S., are giving
domestic companies a leg-up in the cloud.  France  set up a venture in November with companies
including  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Thales SA (HO)  to offer on-demand
rental of hardware, software and applications that are “made in
France.” The German government is working on stricter data-
protection rules that would include as a criterion the location
of servers that host often confidential and sensitive user data.  State intervention has picked up since  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said
last June that, as an American company, it must hand data to
U.S. authorities under the Patriot Act if asked, even if its
files are stored in  Europe . At stake is a market valued at $47
billion in western Europe alone by 2015, according to  Gartner
Inc. (IT)   France Telecom ,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and Atos Origin are
bidding against U.S. suppliers  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   “It’s the beginning of a fight between two giants,”  Jean-
Francois Audenard , Paris-based France Telecom’s cloud-security
adviser, said in an interview. “It’s extremely important to
have the governments of Europe take care of this issue because
if all the data of enterprises were going to be under the
control of the U.S., it’s not really good for the future of the
European people.”  Europe’s technology companies have fallen behind  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in Internet search, social-
media and consumer electronics. Henning Kagermann, a former
chief executive officer of Walldorf, Germany-based  SAP AG (SAP) , the
largest maker of management-business software, said Europe needs
to avoid the same fate in cloud computing.  Salesforce.com, IBM  “I can’t imagine that Europe can afford to leave this
field to the U.S.,” Kagermann, now president of  Germany ’s
National Academy of Science and Engineering, said in an
interview in Berlin yesterday. “This year will show whether
we’re serious about this.”  SAP, its archrival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , and companies such as IBM,
Hewlett-Packard,  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
Microsoft are promoting cloud computing as a secure way to
outsource services and reduce the need for pricey servers.  In Europe, Deutsche Telekom’s T-Systems unit and France
Telecom are wooing clients with the vow to protect their data
from the U.S. government. They cite legal provisions, including
the Patriot Act, that allow authorities to request data without
a court order and to force providers to keep quiet about it
toward their customers.  ‘Level Playing Field’  The European Commission will this month present tighter
data-protection rules to shield individuals from data loss on
the Web while at the same time create a “level playing field
for companies” by smoothing out differences across European
countries. EU Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  said last
month that the reforms should inspire the U.S. to also
strengthen its privacy regime.  Some governments have proposed measures that may be seen as
protectionist. In September, Dutch Security and Justice MinisterIvo Opstelten told the parliament that U.S. companies will be
excluded from bidding for IT services by his government because
of fears that the U.S. Patriot Act may allow data to be
compromised.  As more European clients may request to have data stored
locally, U.S. cloud providers may increasingly have to divvy up
contracts with local providers.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s largest oil company and one
of Microsoft’s biggest clients in the region, last year decided
to store its data in Germany with T-Systems while leaving
Microsoft to run software applications.  Jonathan French , a Shell
spokesman, won’t discuss why the company chose German servers.  Google Deal  This month, Google won its biggest enterprise contract to
date, helping 110,000 employees at Spain’s  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  access its Apps suite, which includes e-mail,
calendar, data and Website creation tools.  That deal doesn’t include storing “more confidential”
data about clients and the bank’s business as the lender prefers
keeping such files under its own control, said  Carmen Lopez ,
director for BBVA’s Innovation Observatory.  Sebastien Marotte, a vice president at Google Enterprise,
said that the company would need “strong justification” from
U.S. authorities, like alleged crimes, before handing over data.  In the longer term, European companies won’t be able to win
global clients with business models based on local regulations,
said Gartner analyst  Frank Ridder .  “You always have to keep in mind that you’re participating
in a model that’s geared toward global application,” he said.
“Governments need to understand that if they want to promote
cloud computing they have to open up rather than dig in.”  As Big as the Web?  Europe is still a relatively small slice of the global
cloud market, which may expand to $241 billion in 2020 from
$40.7 billion last year, according to Forrester Research Inc.
North American and Asian telecommunications companies last year
outspent European peers on cloud assets, with the latter
accounting for only 7 percent of the $13.5 billion investments
globally, according to researcher  Informa Plc. (INF)   The cloud will become as important as the Internet in
maintaining U.S. competitiveness, according to a report that 71
of the nation’s largest technology companies submitted in July
to the Obama administration.  Patrik Edlund , a Hewlett-Packard spokesman, said the
company’s cloud products are certified to meet various levels of
data protection. “We welcome any initiatives to standardize
rules and make them more transparent because that actually helps
all parties do business.”  T-Systems Wins  IBM spokesman  Joseph Hanley  said the company makes sure it
“works with customers to architect solutions appropriate for
their privacy and security needs.”  For now, the U.S. laws are helping Deutsche Telekom, in
which the German government owns 32 percent, win cloud business,
said Reinhard Clemens, CEO of the T-Systems unit. T-Systems last
month added contracts from customers including Promotora de
Informaciones SA,  Spain ’s largest media company, Brazilian
insurer Intermedica Sistema de Saude SA, and South African glass
manufacturer Consol Ltd.  “The Americans say that no matter what happens, I’ll
release the data to the government if I’m forced to do so, from
anywhere in the world,” Clemens told reporters on Sept. 12.
“That’s why we’re well-positioned if we can say we’re a
European provider in a European legal sphere and no American can
get to them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  