-- Euro-Area December Inflation Slowed More
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-01-17T10:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/euro-area-december-inflation-slowed-more-than-first-estimated.html
Euro-region inflation  slowed more
than initially estimated in December as the economy weakened,
giving the European Central Bank time to assess the impact of
two rate cuts over the past months.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation euro area fell to 2.7
percent from 3 percent in November, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. That’s the lowest
since August and below an initial estimate of 2.8 percent
published on Jan. 4.  Core inflation , excluding volatile costs,
remained at 1.6 percent, it said.  The ECB, which aims to keep inflation just below 2 percent,
kept its benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent on Jan. 12,
matching a record low. President  Mario Draghi  called risks to
the inflation outlook “broadly balanced.” With the economy
edging toward a recession and tougher austerity measures
weighing on consumer demand, companies may find it more
difficult to pass on higher costs, curbing price pressures.  “Euro-region inflation will move toward 2 percent in the
first half of 2012,” said  Alexander Krueger , chief economist at
Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf,  Germany . “The ECB will
probably wait for a while before cutting interest rates further
-- in March at the earliest.”  ECB Rate Cuts  The euro extended gains after the data were released,
trading at $1.2795 at 11:01 a.m. in Brussels, up 1 percent.  Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent from November, when they
advanced 0.1 percent, today’s report showed. Inflation slowed in
21 European Union member states and accelerated in two.
Slovakia, Poland and Cyprus had the highest inflation rates,
while Malta and  Sweden  reported the lowest gains.  Euro-region inflation may average 2 percent this year, down
from an estimated 2.7 percent in 2011, the ECB said on Dec. 8,
when cutting the benchmark rate for a second time in as many
months. In 2013, inflation will slow to 1.5 percent, it said.  With crude-oil prices up 15 percent over the past three
months and the euro’s drop making imports more expensive,
companies may be forced to lower costs to help protect earnings
as demand weakens. Euro-region unemployment held at 10.3 percent
in November, the highest in more than a decade, and economic
confidence dropped to a two-year low last month.  ‘Uncertain’ Economy  Prices of alcohol and tobacco rose 3.8 percent in December
from a year earlier, while housing costs advanced 4.9 percent,
the statistics office said. Energy prices rose 9.7 percent from
December 2010, according to the statement.  Jean-Paul Agon, chief executive officer of L’Oreal SA, the
world’s largest cosmetics maker, said on Jan. 4 that the
“economic environment is uncertain.” The Paris-based company
will continue to expand in faster-growing markets, he said.
 Sergio Marchionne , who runs  Fiat SpA (F) , said on Jan. 12 that the
European car market may be flat until 2014, while Italian sales
are set to hit the lowest since 1985 this year.  Adding to signs of easing cost pressures, euro-region
 producer-price inflation  slowed to 5.3 percent in November
compared with 5.5 percent in the previous month. In Germany,
 Europe ’s largest economy, wholesale prices rose 3 percent in
December from a year earlier after increasing 4.9 percent in
November.  Still, Draghi, who took over the ECB helm in November, said
on Jan. 12 that while the economic outlook “remains subject to
high uncertainty and substantial downside risks,” inflation
will likely stay above 2 percent “for several months.” The
“monetary stance is and will remain accommodative,” he said.  The statistics office is scheduled to release an initial
estimate of January inflation next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  