-- Euronav Cancels Suezmax Tanker Order at Loss to Keep Cash
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-01-17T19:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/euronav-cancels-suezmax-tanker-order-at-loss-to-keep-cash-1-.html
Euronav NV (EURN) ,  Belgium ’s sole publicly
traded oil-tanker owner, canceled an order for a suezmax tanker
to preserve cash following six quarters of unprofitable rates
for its biggest vessels hauling 2 million-barrel cargoes.  The fourth-quarter  net loss  widened to $50.7 million from
$17.6 million a year earlier, the Antwerp, Belgium-based company
said today in a statement. The results included a charge of
$25.5 million related to advance payments made to  Samsung Heavy
Industries Co. (010140)  for a suezmax on order that has now been
canceled. Suezmaxes haul 1 million barrels of crude oil and are
about half the size of a supertanker.  Ship owners are contending with a tanker fleet that’s
expanding faster than cargo growth and all six companies in the
 Bloomberg Tanker Index (TANKER)  will lose money this year, analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  General Maritime Corp. (GMRRQ) ,
based in  New York , filed for  bankruptcy protection  Nov. 17 and
Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Frontline Ltd. (FRO) , the world’s biggest
operator of the largest crude carriers, sold vessels, pared
commitments for new ships and eliminated its bank debt to avoid
running out of cash.  “The industry is gradually moving toward measures to limit
overcapacity,” Quirijn Mulder, an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam whose recommendations on Euronav have returned 65
percent in the past year, wrote in a note today. “The macro
story is not supportive for the demand for VLCC transport and
the entrance of new capacity is too high to absorb a low demand
increase.”  Break-Even Rate  Euronav, which operates half of its fleet in the single-
voyage market, said its very large crude carriers, or VLCCs,
earned an average $22,250 a day for a single voyage so far this
quarter, compared with $14,200 in the fourth quarter and less
than the $34,700 it says it needs to  break even . The Belgian
tanker owner has reported VLCC earnings below the break-even
rate for six straight quarters.  The company had previously responded to the slump in rates
by converting tankers into floating storage and offloading
vessels for deepwater oil drilling, sailing slower to reduce
fuel costs and postponing the scheduled delivery of three
tankers to  preserve cash . The tanker owner is “hopeful” to
obtain an additional contract for floating storage and
offloading services after being shortlisted in two undisclosed
projects, according to today’s statement.  Euronav will take delivery of two jointly owned suezmaxes
and one VLCC in the current quarter and said it has the funds
available to pay for those three vessels. It said it still needs
$16 million for planned  capital spending  this year and an
additional $40 million of funds for the delivery of a final
suezmax, at a cost of $55.3 million, in the first quarter of
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  