-- Texas Defends Voter Maps as Nondiscriminatory at U.S.Trial in Washington
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-17T22:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/texas-defends-voter-maps-as-nondiscriminatory-at-u-s-trial-in-washington.html
The  state of Texas  defended in court
its election maps for congressional and state assembly districts
as the U.S. sought to block the plan, alleging it discriminates
against Hispanic voters.  Adam Mortara, a lawyer for Texas, urged a federal court in
 Washington  today to sign off on the state’s redistricting
proposal, saying the boundaries drawn on the maps comply with
the Voting Rights Act.  “Map drawers made a good faith effort to follow Department
of Justice guidance,” Mortara said at the start of a trial over
the redistricting plan. “The voter map is not retrogressive in
terms of Latino voting strength.”  A panel of two federal district judges and one appellate
judge, in a trial scheduled to last about two weeks, will hear
testimony from  Texas  legislators, their staff and expert
witnesses who analyzed voter data in the state.  The same panel ruled in November that Texas used an
“improper standard or methodology” when determining whether
minorities had the ability to elect their preferred candidates.  The dispute stems from maps drawn last year by the
Republican-controlled Texas legislature after the decennial
census. Governor  Rick Perry , now a Republican candidate for
president, signed the maps into law.  More Challenges  Legal challenges over the Texas maps are under
consideration by three federal courts, including the U.S.
Supreme Court, which heard arguments last week on whether
federal judges in Texas overstepped their authority by drawing
up interim voting plans.  The U.S. objects to two proposed congressional districts
and five state assembly districts.  The  Justice Department  said in court filings that Texas
“purposely manipulated” proposed congressional districts in
the Dallas-Fort Worth area to decrease current and future
minority voter strength in violation of the Voting Rights Act.  Texas sued the administration of President  Barack Obama  in
July seeking so-called pre-clearance for the state’s new maps
under the voting act, a step required of all states with a
history of voting-rights violations.  Past Elections  Lawyers for Texas opened the trial with a 45 minute
statement arguing that the state believes the maps were legal
because its analysis was based on Justice Department guidance.
Mortara said Texas studied 10 elections in the state from 2002
to 2010, five of which took place from 2008 to 2010.  “The problem here is that the  Department of Justice 
ignores that it violates the Constitution to redistrict with
racial ends or racial means, unless the Voting Rights Act
requires it,” Mortara said. “Once you’ve assured there’s no
retrogression, you cannot draw districts based on race
anymore.”  He said Texas didn’t draw more districts dominated by
Hispanic voters because “that’s where use of race has to
stop.”  The majority-Republican legislature redrew electoral maps
after the state grew enough to gain four seats in Congress,
adding almost 4.3 million residents since 2000, according to the
2010 census.  In June, Perry signed a bill approving the map lawmakers
had created.  Congressional representatives whose jobs are threatened by
the redistricting plan sued Perry and the state in federal court
in  San Antonio  to block approval of the map as did Hispanic
voting-rights organizations and Travis County, which includes
the state capital, Austin.  The case is Texas v. U.S., 1:11-cv-01303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 