-- Text, Lies and ‘Dr. Evil’ at Issue in Russian Oligarch Trial
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-01-17T14:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/text-lies-and-dr-evil-at-issue-in-russian-oligarch-trial-at-u-k-court.html
Claims that  Boris Berezovsky  went to
meetings in a bathrobe and signed  text messages  as “Dr. Evil”
were invented by  Roman Abramovich  and his friends, Berezovsky’s
lawyers argued as a lawsuit between the men drew to a close.  Both sides have accused each other of dishonesty and greed
during the three-month trial in  London . Over the next two days,
Berezovsky’s lawyers have a last chance to discredit Chelsea
Football Club owner Abramovich, 45, as they sum up the $6.8
billion claim against him to judge Elizabeth Gloster.  “The cynical manipulation of evidence and indeed of the
trial process,” by Abramovich is one of the factors Gloster
should consider, Berezovsky lawyer Laurence Rabinowitz said
today. Their “smears and innuendo” cast doubt on Abramovich’s
case, he argued.  Berezovsky, now living in exile in London, claims
Abramovich used Kremlin connections to intimidate him into
selling stakes in Russian oil and metal companies for far below
their real value 10 years ago. The trial ends this week after
hundreds of hours of court time, millions of pounds in legal
fees and witnesses ranging from kitchen staff to billionaires
such as  United Co. Rusal Plc (486)  founder  Oleg Deripaska .  Among the allegations made against Berezovsky was a claim
by Deripaska that he arrived at a meeting in a London hotel in
2000 wearing a dressing gown and looking disheveled. That led to
Rabinowitz asking Deripaska: “Have you ever seen him in the
nude?”  Godfather, Businessman  Deripaska testified on behalf of Abramovich via video link
in November. The bathrobe testimony was “pure invention of the
most cynical and unpleasant kind,” Rabinowitz said today. It
was designed to portray Berezovsky as a “godfather, rather than
a businessman,” his team said in court papers.  Berezovsky, 65, who built Russia’s largest car dealership
in the 1990s, fled the country in 2000 after falling out of
favor with then-President  Vladimir Putin .  Associates of Abramovich also claimed Berezovsky had links
to organized crime and fabricated a story about a text message,
signed Dr. Evil, sent to intimidate a potential witness,
Berezovsky’s lawyers said.  During more than 30 hours of cross-examination in October,
Berezovsky said Abramovich wasn’t smart enough to succeed in
Russia without him. He maintains he helped Abramovich build up
stakes in oil company OAO Sibneft and aluminum assets which
eventually became part of Rusal in return for a share of the
companies, and that Abramovich forced him to sell by saying the
Russian state would seize his shares unless he did. Berezovsky
claims he lost about $6.8 billion on the sales.  Protection Payments  Abramovich said he gave Berezovsky and an associate, Badri Patarkatsishvili, hundreds of millions of dollars for physical
and political protection before paying them $1.3 billion to
break off the arrangement in 2001 and 2002.  Rabinowitz said the judge needs to determine whether
Abramovich “provided a plausible explanation for the enormous
and indeed admitted payments made to Mr. Berezovsky?”  He made the payments “because they related to ownership
interests in Sibneft and Rusal and that, we say, explains their
size,” Rabinowitz said.  Any decision by Gloster, who isn’t expected to rule for
several weeks, could be appealed.  Legal costs from the trial might be more than 100 million
pounds ($153 million), according to estimates by Jim Diamond, a
lawyer who works on legal fee disputes.  ‘Big Ticket’  “Big ticket litigation is a game for people with very deep
pockets,” he said.  It would have been fairer if the Abramovich Berezovsky
trial had been heard in  Russia , Putin said in his annual
question and answer session in December.  Edward Mermelstein, a New York-based attorney who
represents wealthy Russians, said the case had been a disaster
for the image of the country’s businessmen, including
Abramovich.  “At this point, Abramovich has already lost simply because
of the all the negative press associated with this event,” he
said in a phone interview today, noting that Berezovsky’s image
was already tarnished before the trial.  “It’s a very difficult situation to have the country’s
dirty laundry aired out in the international press.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 