-- MF Global Said to Have Told JPMorgan Overdaft Transfer Was Properly Done
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-17T20:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/mf-global-said-to-have-told-jpmorgan-overdaft-transfer-was-properly-done.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. , a lender to
bankrupt MF Global Holdings Ltd., was given verbal assurance
that a transfer of segregated customer money to pay an overdraft
followed the rules governing treatment of customers’ money,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  The assurance was given by an MF Global treasurer, Edith O’Brien, or someone in her office, after JPMorgan wrote asking
for confirmation that the transfer was in accordance with
regulations, said the person, who declined to be named because
the communications were private.  The transfer of $200 million in segregated customer money
was a subject at congressional hearings on the downfall of the
commodity firm formerly run by  Jon Corzine . Corzine, a former
New Jersey governor and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. co-chairman,
said at the hearing he was assured that the transfer followed
the rules set up to protect customers.  Reid Weingarten , a lawyer for O’Brien, declined to comment
on the case.  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment on the transaction.  JPMorgan received no written response to its letter,
probably addressed to O’Brien, in the busy days before the
bankruptcy, said the person familiar with the transfer. However,
the bank was told the transfer was proper, as Corzine testified,
the person said.  The MF Global parent filed the eighth-largest U.S.
bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after getting margin calls and other
demands for money.  ‘Liquidity Issues’  MF Global used about $700 million of customer funds to
“meet liquidity issues” at its broker-dealer in the days
before the bankruptcy, according to  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which had
auditing authority over the failed futures broker. Customer
funds were also used to make a loan of about $175 million to MF
Global’s U.K. subsidiary, according to  Terrence Duffy , CME
Group’s executive chairman.  CME Group disclosed details of its dealings with MF Global
in documents released in December by the oversight panel of the
House Financial Services Committee. Christine Serwinski, chief
financial officer for  North America  at MF Global, and O’Brien
told Mike Procajlo, an exchange auditor, at around 1 a.m. on
Oct. 31 in Serwinski’s Chicago office that the customer money
was transferred on Oct. 27 and Oct. 28 and possibly Oct. 26,
according to a CME Group timeline.  Missing Money  At the MF Global brokerage, which is being separately
liquidated by trustee James Giddens, a spokesman said, “The
investigation being conducted by the trustee will closely
examine accounts at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  held in the name of the
broker-dealer.”  Giddens, who has returned about 72 percent of MF Global
customers’ assets, has said $1.2 billion or more is missing from
their segregated accounts. His search for missing money
coordinates with simultaneous probes by the U.S. Justice
Department, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other
regulators, said spokesman  Kent Jarrell .  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank, was agent for a
$1.2 billion loan to the broker-dealer’s parent, and also for a
$300 million loan to the brokerage, according to court papers.
The broker-dealer paid JPMorgan and the other secured lenders
back for the $300 million loan, Giddens has said.  If the bank received so-called preferential payments before
the brokerage went into liquidation, or other payments, Giddens
will deal “appropriately” with the transfers or other issues,
he said in December.  The trustee was responding to a query from a judge about
whether he was disinterested enough to sue JPMorgan if
necessary, in light of his law firm’s past work for the bank.  JPMorgan, with Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp.,
was also among banks that loaned the MF Global finance unit $1.5
billion, according to court papers.  The parent’s bankruptcy case is MF Global Holdings Ltd.,
11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New
York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 