-- Fate of 7,000 Stanford Ponzi Investors Hangs on Rare SEC Lawsuit
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-01-17T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/fate-of-7-000-stanford-ponzi-investors-hangs-on-rare-sec-lawsuit.html
For 40 years, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and the congressionally chartered group
that protects against broker theft have worked in tandem to
reimburse people whose accounts are pilfered.  Now the SEC and the  Securities Investor Protection Corp. ,
or SIPC, are about to face off in a bitter court fight that may
determine how future fraud victims are covered, raise broker
fees that support SIPC and cast doubt on the SEC’s political
independence.  The dispute centers on whether more than 7,000 brokerage
customers who invested in the alleged $7 billion Ponzi scheme
run by R. Allen Stanford are entitled to have their losses
covered by SIPC.  SIPC, a nonprofit corporation funded by the brokerage
industry, says the Stanford investments don’t fit into the
confines of the federal law that governs who’s eligible for the
payouts. Investors and their advocates in Congress say SIPC is
deliberately taking a narrow view of the law to protect brokers
from higher assessments.  The SEC’s commissioners, who have oversight of SIPC,
ultimately sided with the investors. In June, the agency ordered
SIPC to start a process that could grant up to $500,000 per
client -- the same maximum amount it offers in any case. After
SIPC balked, the SEC for the first time sued the group in
federal court in  Washington .  Dollars and Principles  As the two prepare for a Jan. 24 court date, SIPC has come
out swinging, hiring two prominent law firms and an ex-federal
judge who’s been on the short list for a Republican Supreme
Court nomination. In legal briefs, it accuses the SEC of ceding
to pressure from Congress to flout the letter of the law, and
argues that the agency’s position jeopardizes investor payouts
in other cases, including for clients of  Bernard Madoff  and  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)   “The dollars are such and the principles are such that we
have to take it seriously,” said  Stephen Harbeck , who has
worked at SIPC for 36 years and is now its president.  Harbeck said the group would probably have to spend most if
not all of the $1.5 billion in its fund and possibly have to
borrow more from the Treasury if the court orders it into the
Stanford case.  The case “challenges the entire nature of the relationship
between the SEC and SIPC,” he added. “I’m quite sure it’s not
for the better.”  High-Interest CDs  SIPC may be best known for its logo, which dues-paying
brokerage firms put on their marketing materials to show
customers they’re protected. While investors may regard the
label as equivalent to the guarantee that the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. gives to bank accounts, SIPC doesn’t run a
general insurance fund or cover investment losses. Under the
Securities Investor Protection Act, it’s supposed to aid
investors when their securities or cash are stolen or go missing.  Stanford, who’s in prison awaiting trial, allegedly used
his brokerage to entice investors to buy high-interest
certificates of deposits via his private Stanford International
Bank Ltd. in Antigua. Instead, according to prosecutors, much of
the money was used to support Stanford’s businesses and
lifestyle.  Harbeck has said that SIPC shouldn’t get involved because
investors received actual CDs after the brokerage passed their
money to a bank. What happened after that isn’t under SIPC’s
purview because the Stanford account holders have possession of
their securities, he told a court-appointed receiver in 2009.
SIPC covers theft but not fraud, he said.  Letters from Lawmakers  The SEC’s staff initially agreed. So did  David Becker , the
SEC’s general counsel at the time, according to an inspector
general’s report. As the commissioners mulled the matter, more
than 50 lawmakers signed letters asking SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to explain why constituents weren’t getting aid while
SIPC was helping a court-appointed receiver recover billions of
dollars for victims of Madoff’s fraud.  Schapiro and other commissioners rejected the staff’s
analysis and ordered it redone, according to five people with
knowledge of the matter. The SEC commissioners eventually
decided that there was no true separation between Stanford’s
bank and the brokerage firm. Customers who made investments with
the bank, the SEC said, were effectively depositing money with
the brokerage and should get SIPC coverage.  Angela Shaw, who founded the Stanford Victims’ Coalition
after her family lost $4.6 million in the alleged fraud, said
there was no reason for clients to think they weren’t
backstopped by the fund.  Settlement Rejected  SIPC “helped Stanford defraud investors, period,” said
Shaw, who said that about 7,800 of 20,000 Stanford investors
used the brokerage. “They slapped that logo on everything to
create an illusion of protection.”  After the SEC ordered the payout, SIPC privately offered to
settle the matter with the agency for about $250,000 per
customer, according to two people familiar with the legal
negotiations. The SEC’s five commissioners voted to reject the
deal, the people said.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  said SIPC’s accusation that the
agency was responding to pressure from Congress was
“inaccurate” and said “the commission’s decision was based on
the facts and the law.”  He declined to comment on the settlement talks. “We have
had a long, positive relationship with SIPC that we intend to
continue,” Nester said.  SIPC’s Harbeck also declined to discuss the settlement
offer. He said that “at the staff level” relations with the
SEC still “are really good.”  SEC Criticized  The larger Stanford case has been a lingering embarrassment
for the SEC, which has come under criticism from investors and
lawmakers for failing to uncover Ponzi schemes. The agency’s
inspector general’s office determined that the SEC failed to
conduct a meaningful investigation of  Stanford Financial Group 
until 2005 even though its examiners suspected the firm of
engaging in fraud eight years earlier.  Stanford was accused by the SEC in February 2009 of running
a “massive, ongoing fraud,” and was later indicted on criminal
charges. He has denied all wrongdoing.  The SEC, led by its chief litigator Matthew Martens, has
taken a narrow tack in the SIPC case. In court papers, the
agency says it has full authority over SIPC and asks the judge
to enforce its order.  SIPC’s legal team at Kirkland & Ellis LLP -- which includes
former U.S. appellate judge Michael McConnell, mentioned as a
possible Supreme Court nominee during the George W. Bush
administration -- argues that the court shouldn’t just rule on
the order but determine whether the Stanford investors are
covered by SIPC. The group’s board has also retained law firm
Covington & Burling LLP.  ‘Wrongheaded Notion’  “The SEC’s position is predicated on the wrongheaded
notion that it has the legal authority to compel SIPC to take
whatever action the SEC says it must take,” SIPC said in a Dec.
27 court filing.  SIPC’s attorneys also noted that the investor fund first
declined to get involved in the Stanford case in August 2009 --
a decision that wasn’t challenged by the SEC for almost two
years.  “The SEC expressed no disagreement with SIPC until June
2011, when a United States senator announced a hold on two
nominees to become SEC commissioners while the SEC considered
this issue -- and the commission abruptly flipped its position
on SIPC and Stanford the next day,” SIPC wrote in its filing.  Increased Dues  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
a Washington-based trade association for the brokerage industry,
has also weighed in, estimating in an analysis it released last
August that its firms’ dues to SIPC would more than double if
the protection was extended the way the SEC wants.  Brokers currently pay one-quarter of 1 percent of their net
operating revenues from their securities businesses in an annual
SIPC assessment.  “While we are very sympathetic for any loss incurred by
victims of the Stanford Financial fraud, SIPC as created by
Congress in 1970 was never enabled to provide coverage as
proposed by the SEC in this case,” said  Andrew DeSouza , a Sifma
spokesman. “An unprecedented expansion of SIPC protection to
investment fraud losses is something Congress never intended.”  Senator  David Vitter , the Louisiana Republican who refused
to allow the vote on the SEC nominees until the agency weighed
in on the Stanford case, said in a statement that SIPC’s court
filings and public comments show “just how desperate they are
to divert attention from their untenable position.”  Protection Fund  The senator, who has some 1,800 Stanford investors in his
state, said that SIPC has “never before in history” ignored an
order from the SEC to liquidate a failed brokerage and assess
the claims of victims. SIPC is mainly worried that payments to
Stanford investors would drain its protection fund, he said.  “Even more disturbing, they’ve highlighted directly to me
concerns that their big firm dues-payers are balking at the
prospect of having to replenish the fund after a Stanford
payout,” Vitter said.  Harbeck said that SIPC’s board, which voted 6-0 to reject
the SEC’s order, includes only two industry representatives and
has members appointed by the Treasury and the  Federal Reserve .  “The viewpoints of the industry were heard, but were by no
means controlling,” Harbeck said. “We’ve looked at this as
objectively as we can.’  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  