-- U.S. Regulators Miss Deadline in Clash With Device-Makers Over Review Cost
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-01-17T14:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/fda-misses-deadline-in-clash-with-device-makers-over-review-cost.html
U.S. regulators haggling with
medical-device makers over how much it will cost to speed up
product reviews starting this year missed a legal deadline to
submit a proposal for congressional approval.  Under a 2007 law, the companies, led by  Johnson & Johnson 
and  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , were charged $295 million over five years to
get products such as hip implants and heart stents reviewed in a
timely manner. The law, set to be reauthorized this year,
mandates that the agency submit a new agreement to U.S.
lawmakers by Jan. 15.  They missed that mark and may not strike a pact by Feb. 15,
when a U.S. House hearing is set on the law. The FDA is seeking
as much as $805 million over five years to add staff, responding
to industry and congressional criticism its’ approval system is
too slow. The industry said on Dec. 6 it’s only prepared to pay
$447 million, according to the latest  minutes  available.  If there’s no agreement by Feb. 15, the FDA “will have the
wrath of a bunch of exercised politicians on them who are
running for re-election and want their pictures on T.V. that
night,” said  Ira Loss , senior health policy analyst at
Washington Analysis, in a telephone interview.  While there’s no sanction in the law for missing the Jan.
15 filing deadline, it is the second the agency has blown by.  Senators Thomas Harkin, Democrat of  Iowa , and Michael Enzi,
Republican of  Wyoming , asked the FDA in July to submit a
reauthorization plan by Dec. 31 so the panel overseeing the
agency would have adequate time to review the plan before any
hearings.  Timing is sensitive because current negotiations are
the first to occur during an election year, when Congress
typically leaves  Washington  by the end of July.  No Decision Yet  Lawmakers haven’t yet decided what to do if a deal isn’t
reached soon, said Debbee Keller, a spokeswoman for Republicans
on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which shares
oversight over the process with the Senate panel.  “We have not reached that point yet, but it is quickly
approaching,” Keller said in an e-mail.  Loss said the FDA and the industry will probably reach an
agreement by Feb. 15 to avoid Congress taking over negotiations.  Wanda Moebius, a spokeswoman for the Advanced Medical
Technology Association, the Washington lobby for the industry,
said progress is being made in negotiations. She wouldn’t say if
the industry had raised its offer, or discuss details of two
meetings for which minutes were unavailable.  Last-Minute Requests  Karen Riley , a spokeswoman for the FDA, said minutes from
Dec. 13 and Jan. 5 meetings won’t be released until they’re
approved by both sides. She declined to discuss the meetings.  The industry has complained that regulators increasingly
make 11th-hour requests for more information, slowing review
times, even with the fee system.  The FDA took 73 days on average in 2010 to complete
less-stringent reviews of devices that pose a low to moderate
risk to patients, down from 80 days before companies paid fees
in 2001, according to a Bloomberg Government study. More than 90
percent of devices are reviewed under the less-stringent
process, known as 510(k).  The FDA most recently proposed a user fee increase between
$730 million and $805 million over five years depending on how
often companies seek consultations with regulators, according to
minutes from a Nov. 29 meeting. The agency may need between 225
and 321 employees to do reviews, according to meeting minutes.  Haggling Over Fees  The industry estimates its $447 million offer would account
for 26 percent of the agency’s medical-device review budget by
fiscal 2017, the final year of the proposed pact. It suggested
the rest could be covered by congressional appropriations,
according to the meeting minutes.  Manufacturers paid $35.2 million in fees in fiscal 2007, or
about 13.2 percent of the agency budget for reviews, according
to a Congressional Research Service report. In contrast,
drugmakers fund about 60 percent of the cost of agency reviews,
according to the FDA.  Device makers  pay  $4,049 per submission for expedited
reviews typically used for products that post a moderate risk to
patients. Companies with less than $100 million in sales pay
$2,024, according to the FDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 