-- Volkswagen, BMW Post 2011 European Gains as Region’s Sales Drop
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-01-17T13:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/fiat-peugeot-lead-2011-europe-car-sales-drop-as-economy-falters.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ,  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  posted 2011 sales gains in  Europe  even
as the  auto industry  as a whole contracted in the region.  The three carmakers were helped by an 8.8 percent advance
last year in their German home market, which accounts for almost
25 percent of Europe’s car sales, the Brussels-based  European
Automobile Manufacturers Association , or ACEA, said today in a
statement.  Germany  was alone among the region’s top five markets
in posting an increase in 2011.  The German carmakers can continue to outperform their
European competitors this year, with BMW in particular
benefiting from the launch of its new 3-Series model, said
Christoph Stuermer, an IHS Automotive analyst in Frankfurt.  Germany’s unemployment rate fell every month last year,
reaching 6.8 percent in December.  Consumer confidence  gained
slightly last month, while remaining below a June high.  European sales at  Volkswagen (VOW) , the region’s biggest
carmaker, rose 7.8 percent in 2011. Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW,
which also owns the Audi, Skoda and Seat brands, has introduced
a new version of the Passat midsized car and a revamped Audi A6
sedan in the past year.  BMW (BMW) , which also makes Mini and Rolls-Royce vehicles,
increased European sales 7.7 percent last year, pushing it to
record global deliveries. Daimler, which owns the Mercedes-Benz
and Smart brands, lifted sales in the region 0.4 percent in
2011, helped by an 8.3 percent surge in December, the ACEA said.  Shares Advance  Daimler  advanced  as much as 1.70 euros, or 4.3 percent, to
41.05 euros and was up 3.5 percent as of 2:15 p.m. in  Frankfurt 
trading. Volkswagen traded 3.1 percent higher at 132.85 euros,
which BMW was up 3.2 percent to 61.87 euros.  Registrations across the region as a whole fell 1.4 percent
last year to 13.6 million vehicles, propelled by a 5.8 percent
drop in December. Spain and  Italy , Europe’s fourth- and fifth-
biggest car markets, led annual declines at 18 percent and 11
percent respectively. Deliveries in the U.K. and  France  also
declined, tumbling 4.4 percent and 2.1 percent each.  European sales at Paris-based PSA Peugeot Citroen, the
region’s second-biggest carmaker, dropped 8.8 percent last year,
while registrations at Renault fell 8.1 percent. The
manufacturer, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt,
said separately today that its global deliveries increased 3.6
percent as demand in  emerging markets  compensated for the drop
in Europe.  Fiat SpA (F) , based in Turin, Italy, posted a 12 percent
drop in the region for 2011.  Economic Pressure  Peugeot and Renault will have another tough year in 2012 as
their “core market in western Europe is under significant
economic pressure,” Stuermer said in an interview in Frankfurt.
“It would be unfair to expect them to swing their sales around
when their core market has gone.”  The ACEA compiles figures from European Union member
countries plus  Switzerland , Norway and Iceland. Western European
car sales, which don’t include figures from the nations that
have joined the EU since 2004, fell 1.3 percent to 12.8 million
vehicles in 2011.  The end of a property and construction boom, fueled by a
speculative bubble and low  interest rates  during the previous
decade, has caused  Spain ’s unemployment rate to more than double
to 23 percent. The country’s underlying inflation rate slowed in
December as the economy edged closer to a second recession in
two years.  Spain’s car market, which peaked in 2007 at 1.61 million
vehicles, probably won’t top that figure in this decade,
according to Jonathon Poskitt, an Oxford, England-based analyst
at LMC Automotive.  Declining Market  LMC Automotive estimates industrywide car sales in western
Europe will fall to 12.1 million vehicles in 2012. The drop in
Europe will be offset by gains in  China  and the U.S., the
world’s two biggest auto markets, analysts forecast.  “This morning’s figures were no big surprise, and there is
great hope for China and the U.S. that revenues there can
grow,” said  Frank Schwope , a Hanover, Germany-based
Norddeutsche Landesbank analyst. “China is still some 600
million vehicles short, which is a massive figure, so there is
still huge potential there.”  GM, whose main brands in Europe are Opel and Vauxhall,
posted a 1.9 percent decline, extended by a 15 percent slide in
December. The Detroit-based carmaker said in November that its
global sales would be similar to last year’s, with weakness in
Europe dragging down the company’s earnings.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
registrations fell 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  