-- Folk Art Museum ’Reasonably Secure’ After $3.5 Million in Gifts
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-01-17T20:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/folk-art-museum-is-reasonably-secure-after-3-5-million-in-contributions.html
The  American Folk Art Museum  can
survive in a storefront on  New York ’s Upper West Side, its
volunteer president said today, buoyed by more than $3.5 million
in contributions and pledges since it sold its main building to
the Museum of  Modern Art .  “We’re committed to operating on a break-even basis for
the indefinite future,” said Monty Blanchard, a former  Merrill
Lynch & Co.  investment banker, speaking at a news conference.
“Our future is reasonably secure.”  The museum sold its West 53rd Street building to MoMA for
$31.2 million last year after missing $3.7 million in debt-
service payments. The 50-year-old museum now operates in a space
of less than 5,000 square feet that it has used as an outpost
since 1989.  “The plus side of selling our building is that we are
debt-free,” said Linda Dunne, the museum’s acting director. All
contributions go to programming, not to servicing or repaying
debt, she said, adding that the staff is 18, down from a peak of
57 a few years ago.  “Considering what was hanging over our heads, this gives
us the chance to start new, without the monster facilities
costs,” she said.  Stacy Hollander, senior curator, has assembled 100 pieces
from the museum’s 5,000-work collection in a dense new
exhibition called “Jubilation/Rumination: Life, Real and
Imagined.” It includes Henry Darger, Martin Ramirez and other
big names of folk art.  The philanthropist Joyce Berger Cowin recently pledged $2
million to the museum, Blanchard said, and trustees and others
gave about $1 million.  Dependent on Donors  The museum is unusually dependent on donors. It occupies
its space rent-free as part of a decades-old zoning agreement
that prohibits the museum from charging admission, according to
a 2000 filing for bondholders. A box near the entrance appeals
to visitors for a $5 donation.  Dunne is confident that the museum will gain ownership of
hundreds of works promised by  Ralph Esmerian , a former chairman
and jeweler who was sentenced last year to six years in prison
after pleading guilty to fraud. The fate of the works is being
decided by U.S. bankruptcy court, she said.  In taking over the board, Blanchard replaces Laura Parsons,
the wife of the chairman of  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Because Maria Ann
Conelli resigned last year as executive director, the museum will
seek a permanent full-time leader. Dunne said she doesn’t want
the job.  “The day-to-day management of the institution falls to
me,” Dunne said. “I’m a nuts-and-bolts gal. My heart really
isn’t in fundraising.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 