-- Fresenius Boosts Junk Bond Offering With Yields at 5-Month Low
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-01-17T23:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/fresenius-plans-1-52-billion-junk-debt-sale-as-yields-drop-to-5-month-low.html
Fresenius Medical Care AG (FME) , the
world’s biggest provider of  kidney dialysis , sold $1.5 billion
of speculative-grade debt in a boosted offering as yields on
such securities drop to a five-month low.  The company issued $800 million of 5.625 percent notes due
July 2019 and $700 million of 5.875 percent debt due January
2022, up from a planned $1.2 billion sale, said a person with
knowledge of the transaction. European companies from Ardagh
Packaging Finance Plc to Welltec A/S are also marketing high-
yield debt in dollars, said another person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  High-yield, high-risk companies have issued at least $8.9
billion of debt this month, rebounding from $3.7 billion of
sales in December, as borrowing costs sink. Demand may be fueled
in part by high-yield money managers ending last year with cash
balances at a post-credit crisis high of about 5.8 percent from
2.4 percent in December 2009, JPMorgan Chase & Co. credit
strategists said in a Jan. 13 note. More European companies may
be looking to tap the stronger U.S. market, said Marc Gross, a
money manager at RS Investments in New York.  “The U.S. high-yield market is far more robust than the
European markets,” said Gross, who oversees $3 billion in
fixed-income funds. “I would expect to see more deals that
should be getting done in  Europe  coming over here.”  Polkomtel Sale  Polkomtel SA, the second-largest mobile phone company in
 Poland , plans to sell the equivalent of 900 million euros of
bonds in what would be Europe’s first high-yield corporate issue
in two months.  Proceeds may help fund the  Bad Homburg , Germany-based
company’s purchase of Liberty Dialysis Holdings Inc. and to pay
back debt, said the person with knowledge of the sale, who
declined to be identified citing lack of authorization to speak
publicly. Bank of America Corp. managed the offering. The issue
is the biggest junk bond offering since at least Jan. 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on  junk bonds , rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , tumbled to 8.3
percent today, the least since Aug. 5, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Ardagh Packaging, a unit of Luxembourg-based Ardagh Group
SA, plans to sell $410 million of speculative-grade dollar-
denominated debt in an add-on to outstanding 7.375 percent notes
due 2017, said a person with knowledge of that transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Danish
oilfield services firm Welltec plans to issue $325 million of
seven-year senior secured debt, according to S&P.  Prestige Brands Holdings Inc. (PBH) , the maker of products
including Clear Eyes drops, and Summit Materials LLC, are also
marketing high-yield debt, said people with knowledge of those
transactions, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  