-- Gazprom Price Retreat Offers EON Hope as Euro Crisis Cuts Demand
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   B e n   F a r e y
-- 2012-01-18T07:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/gazprom-price-retreat-offers-eon-hope-as-euro-crisis-cuts-demand.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ’s decision to cut prices
for five customers signals a weakening position for Russia in
 Europe ’s gas market as the economic crisis erodes energy demand.  Russia’s gas-export monopoly said yesterday it revised the
price formula for clients including  Germany ’s Wingas,  GDF Suez (GSZ) 
SA of  France  and Sinergie Italiane Srl to reflect “changing gas
market conditions.” Germany’s largest utilities EON AG and RWE
AG are embroiled in arbitration with Gazprom over prices and
volumes after losing billions of euros buying fuel at above-
market rates.  “Gazprom is ready to give in on some conditions and grant
a price discount to some of its counterparties in order to
preserve its market share,” said Pavel Sorokin, an oil and gas
analyst at Alfa Bank in Moscow. “The gas-market reality is
quite harsh.”  The European Union buys about 25 percent of its gas from
 Russia , typically on fixed-term contracts linked to the price of
oil. Warmer-than-usual weather and the economic slowdown caused
by Europe’s debt crisis have seen day-to-day prices fall to
about 20 percent less than Gazprom’s average contract price.
Yesterday’s decision was a sign the Russian supplier is under
pressure to give ground as the shale-driven boom in U.S. gas
production drives additional supply in the Atlantic to Europe.  ‘Price Correction’  Gazprom sold less gas last year in Germany, Europe’s
largest economy. Imports of Russian gas into Germany in the
first 10 months of 2011 fell 3.7 percent compared with the same
period a year earlier, according to data from Germany’s economy
ministry. Imports from  Norway  dropped 3 percent while Dutch
imports declined 0.2 percent.  “Gazprom Export reached and formalized agreements with
several major customers in Europe, providing for a certain price
correction of the Russian natural gas supplies,” Gazprom Deputy
Chief Executive Officer Alexander Medvedev said in a statement
yesterday. The revisions reflect “the changing gas market
conditions in Europe and the state of play in the economy.”  Gazprom didn’t adjust the extent that spot prices affect
its tariffs, two officials at its export unit said, declining to
be identified because commercial arrangements are private.  The discount, which will be applied retroactively, probably
averaged 10 percent and covers about 23.5 percent of Gazprom’s
total sales to Europe, Sorokin said in a research note today.  ‘Not Tenable’  Prices for the day-ahead at the Dutch Title Transfer
Facility, a hub for European gas trading, averaged 22.66 euros a
megawatt-hour last year, or about $319 a 1,000 cubic meters.
That compares with Gazprom’s average export price of about $390
a 1,000 cubic meters. The TTF day-ahead contract traded at 21.25
euros ($27.06) yesterday.  “Gazprom has accepted that the status quo is not
tenable,”  Jonathan Stern , chairman and senior research fellow
at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, said in a phone
interview from  London . “They’ve not yet accepted the need to
move to hub-based pricing.”  While the details of the deals are confidential, Stern said
Gazprom may have reduced the base price in the contracts, rather
than increased the link to spot  gas prices , as it did in a deal
reached with Verbundnetz Gas AG in December. Yesterday’s
decision will be a “fillip” for EON and RWE, Stern said.  The Moscow-based company is in arbitration with EON Ruhrgas
AG,  RWE AG (RWE) ’s Transgas unit, Erdgas Import Salzburg GmbH and
 Poland ’s PGNiG on review on long-term prices, according to a
bond prospectus released in November.  Arbitration Proceedings  Gazprom Export continues an “exchange of opinions” on a
settlement with other partners, including those who started
arbitration proceedings, the unit said today.  EON said in November falling spot prices for natural gas
trimmed earnings from its wholesale business by 800 million
euros in the first nine months of the year. Still, EON and RWE
may have to wait before getting a better deal from Gazprom,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  “We found it interesting that none of the companies that
are in arbitration with Gazprom have settled,” Nadia Kazakova
and Andrey Gromadin, analysts at JPMorgan, said. “We assume
these largest customers are looking for a fundamental long-term
solution to the pricing/volume issues, rather than one-off
settlements.”  A boom in output of gas trapped in shale rock in the U.S.
removed its need for imports. That’s driven cargoes of liquefied
natural gas toward Europe. Imports of gas on tankers have risen
as a proportion of European supply. In 2010 almost one quarter
of EU net gas imports were LNG compared with 19% of the total in
2009, according to the  International Energy Agency .  The price cuts will allow Gazprom to be more flexible when
prices are high, eating further into revenue when price fall,
 Alfa Bank  said.  “It should also help avoid conflict and arbitrage,”
analysts led by Sorokin said in the note. “The extent to which
Gazprom will have to give in to other counterparties is still
unclear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  