-- Georgia Gulf Rejects Westlake Chemical’s $1.03 Billion Offer
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-01-17T21:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/georgia-gulf-rejects-1-03-billion-bid-from-westlake-chemical.html
Georgia Gulf Corp. (GGC) ,  North America ’s
largest maker of vinyl construction products, rejected a $1.03
billion buyout offer from  Westlake Chemical Corp. (WLK)  as too low.  Westlake’s proposed offer is “financially inadequate,”
Atlanta-based Georgia Gulf said yesterday in a statement.
Westlake made its $30-a-share bid public on Jan. 13 and said
Georgia Gulf had failed to engage in “meaningful” talks.  “We believe the Westlake proposal is an opportunistic
attempt to acquire the company’s uniquely positioned assets as
we recover from an unprecedented downturn in the industries we
serve and a volatile public equity market,” Georgia Gulf Chief
Executive Officer Paul Carrico said in the statement.  Westlake CEO Albert Chao, whose family owns  69 percent  of
the Houston-based company, is seeking to integrate his resin and
pipe production with Georgia Gulf’s chemicals and vinyl lines.
The bid “offers superior value” compared with Georgia’s Gulf’s
existing strategy, Westlake said today in a statement.
Negotiations could lead to a higher offer, it said.  Georgia Gulf rose 1.7 percent to $33.48 in  New York .
Westlake climbed 4.6 percent to $56.34.  Georgia Gulf disputed Westlake’s assertions that the
company wasn’t willing to provide information or enter into
talks.  “We have repeatedly told you we would be willing to engage
in discussions with you,” Georgia Gulf said in a copy of a
letter to Chao that was included in yesterday’s statement.  Poison Pill  Westlake said today that Georgia Gulf has insisted that
talks may proceed only if the companies reach a standstill
agreement. Such an accord “would unreasonably restrain their
shareholders’ ability to timely consider our proposal,”
Westlake said.  Georgia Gulf has adopted a stockholder rights plan, also
known as a poison pill, that allows existing shareholders to buy
stock at a discount once a suitor acquires more than 10 percent
of shares outstanding. Westlake, which proposed its offer to
 Georgia  Gulf’s management on Sept. 20, has already acquired 4.8
percent of the company.  “Georgia Gulf’s rejection of our proposal and their
adoption of a ‘poison pill’ is entirely consistent with its
board’s entrenched approach and refusal to come to the table to
negotiate in good faith,” Westlake said.  The value of the offer was calculated based on the 34.2
million shares of Georgia Gulf that are outstanding according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Rival Bids?  Georgia Gulf is worth $45 to $50 a share as Westlake’s
offer doesn’t reflect the improved earnings that would result
from a faster-growing economy, Charles Neivert, an analyst at
Dahlman Rose & Co. in New York, said today in a report. Westlake
probably won’t offer more than $40, he said. Competing bids may
come from building-products producers, including those in  Latin
America , he said.  Standard & Poor’s  said today in a statement that it put
Westlake’s credit rating of BBB-, the lowest investment-grade
level, on “CreditWatch” with negative implications following
the announcement of its bid. S&P also put its B+ rating for
Georgia Pacific on “CreditWatch” with positive implications.  Moody’s Investors Service said today in a statement that it
put its Baa3 rating on Westlake’s credit under review for
possible downgrade and its Ba3 rating for Georgia Gulf under
review for possible upgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  