-- German Clean Energy Must Face Free Market, Economy Minister Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-17T17:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/german-clean-energy-must-face-free-market-economy-minister-says.html
Germany  needs to overhaul its
subsidy system for renewable energy created in the 1990s to
ensure the clean-power industry remains competitive, Economy
Minister Philipp Roesler said.  Power producers will need to face competitors without
earning above-market prices over the long-term if the country
wants to reach its clean-energy targets and not overpay, Roesler
said today in Berlin. German consumers paid about 13 billion
euros ($16.6 billion) last year in subsidies, mostly for power
from wind and solar plants.  “We must think about how to get out of the current system
or, if we can develop it, to get a new one that’s more
competitive,” said Roesler, who is also vice chancellor.  Roesler’s comments underline tensions inside German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government over the future of clean-
energy subsidies as the nation’s solar companies struggle with
rising foreign competition including from  China , where the
world’s three largest solar-panel makers are based.  Germany,  Europe ’s biggest power market and home to No. 4-
ranked Solarworld AG, seeks to increase the share of renewables
in the power mix to 80 percent by 2050 from about 20 percent now
as it shutters its nuclear reactors. Roesler has in the past
warned of spiraling costs linked to solar subsidies.  Berlin-based module maker Solon SE and Solar Millennium AG,
a developer of solar-thermal plants, filed for insolvency last
month even as the country added a record 7.5 gigawatts of solar-
energy capacity in 2011, more than double the government’s
target of 3.5 gigawatts.  Record Installations  While the German government may reduce solar power
subsidies in response to record installations late last year,
the renewable energy law in its current form has “stood the
test of time,” Christiane Schwarte, a spokeswoman for
Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen, said yesterday. She
expects the current law to continue, she said.  German consumers finance the clean-energy subsidies via
their electricity bills. Under current regulations, Germany is
expected to cut solar subsidies by about 27 percent this year
after a 13 percent reduction in 2011, according to the BSW-Solar
industry association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  