-- Carney Extends Record Rate Pause in Canada as World Growth Slows: Economy
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-01-17T21:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/german-investor-confidence-jumps-more-than-forecast-as-economy-stabilizes.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor Mark Carney
prolonged a record period of low interest rates to support an
economy that he said would be hobbled by slowing growth in
China, Europe and the U.S.  Carney kept his benchmark  overnight rate  at 1 percent for
the 11th straight time today, the longest stretch since the
central bank began targeting that rate in 1994. Growth in Canada
and the U.S. will be “more modest” than forecast in October as
European leaders struggle to contain a debt crisis, the Ottawa-
based bank said in a statement today.  “It’s quite unusual to have rates this low this far into
the cycle, but it’s also unusual to have all these risk factors
over their head,” said  Stefane Marion , chief economist at
National Bank Financial in  Montreal .  Canada’s exports of services and goods from oil to
automobiles, which account for about 35 percent of the world’s
10th largest economy, are threatened by slowing global demand
and the “persistent strength” of its currency, the  Bank of
Canada  said. Recent signs of a pickup in the U.S., Canada’s
largest market, are likely to be transitory, it said.  While the U.S. “had more momentum than anticipated in the
second half of 2011, the pace of growth going forward is
expected to be more modest than previously envisaged, largely
due to the external environment,” policy makers led by Carney,
46, said in the statement. “There is considerable monetary
policy stimulus in Canada,” the bank said, echoing its previous
decision.  Growth Forecasts  Canada’s  economy  will expand by 2 percent this year and 2.8
percent next year, compared with an October forecast for
expansions of 1.9 percent and 2.9 percent, the bank said. The
estimate of 2011 growth was increased to 2.4 percent from 2.1
percent.  China ’s growth is “decelerating as expected towards a more
sustainable pace,” the Bank of Canada said today, adding that
commodity prices other than oil through next year will be lower
than forecast in October.  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, grew at an 8.9
percent pace in the last three months of 2011 from a year
earlier, the slowest rate in 10 quarters, the statistics bureau
said today in Beijing. Growth exceeded the 8.7 percent median of
26 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  In the U.S., the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic  index  rose to 13.5, the highest level since April, from
a revised 8.2 in December. Readings higher than zero signal
expansion among companies in the so-called Empire State Index,
which covers  New York , northern  New Jersey  and southern
 Connecticut .  German Confidence  German investor confidence jumped the most on record in
January. The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said its index of investor and analyst expectations,
which aims to predict economic developments six months in
advance, surged to minus 21.6 from minus 53.8 in December, its
second straight increase. The 32.2-point gain is the biggest in
two decades of data.  The better-than-projected economic data helped propel a
global equity rally. The MSCI All-Country World Index rose 0.7
percent, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4 percent
to 1,293.67 at the close in New York. Canada’s benchmark
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index declined 0.2 percent.  Carney said in a Dec. 12 speech in Toronto that Canada has
to reduce its “reliance on debt-fuelled household
expenditures.”  Consumer spending  helped the country exit
recession in 2009 faster than other Group of Seven nations.  “A lot of the things that pulled Canada out of the
recession quickly can’t continue to lead the way, and now we
need help from the rest of the world,” said  Doug Porter , deputy
chief economist with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  Interest Rate Cuts  The  European Central Bank ,  Norway  and  Australia  cut
 interest rates  last month to stem the damage from slowing global
growth.  “The bias is still just to keep rates on hold for the
foreseeable future,” said Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist
at TD Securities in Toronto “As long as these external
headwinds persist, the bank doesn’t have any incentive to take
rates higher.”  Carney’s interest-rate freeze comes even as  inflation 
exceeds his 2 percent target. Consumer prices rose 2.9 percent
in November from a year earlier,  Statistics Canada  said Dec. 20.
The average monthly gain in consumer prices through November was
3 percent, on pace for the highest average pace since Canada
adopted inflation targets two decades ago.  The central bank predicted in October inflation will slow
to 1 percent by the middle of this year. Today, the bank said
that the economy will return to full output and the pace of
price increases will accelerate back to its 2 percent target in
the third quarter of 2013, one quarter earlier than it had
forecast.  Press Conference  Carney, who was named chairman of the Financial Stability
Board in November, will hold a press conference tomorrow after
releasing a detailed forecast in a Monetary Policy Report.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who has ended a two-year
government stimulus program, said last week he will consider new
initiatives if there is new major slowdown. On Nov. 8, Flaherty
pushed back his target for eliminating Canada’s budget deficit
by a year to 2015 because slower growth will erode revenue.  The Bank of Canada today also reiterated that  household
debt  will keep rising to records, after reaching 153 percent of
disposable income in the third quarter. The bank said last month
consumer debt is the main domestic risk to financial stability.  Flaherty said today he’s prepared to intervene in the
country’s housing market if necessary, though the government has
no plans to take immediate action.  “We watch the housing market carefully, and we are
prepared to intervene if necessary,” Flaherty told reporters,
adding there has been some “softening” in the country’s
housing market. “Having said that, we’re not about to intervene
in the housing market now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  