-- Germany’s Schulz Voted EU Parliament Head Over Two U.K. Rivals
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-01-17T09:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/germany-s-schulz-voted-eu-parliament-head-over-two-u-k-rivals.html
The European Parliament chose  Martin Schulz  of Germany as its president over two U.K. candidates,
highlighting Britain’s struggle for political clout on the
continent.  Schulz, the Socialists’ floor leader in the European Union
assembly, succeeds Polish Christian Democrat Jerzy Buzek for the
second half of a five-year term. This reflects a power-sharing
accord between the Christian Democrats, the 27-nation
Parliament’s largest faction from which U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  removed his  Conservative Party , and the
Socialists, the second-biggest group.  The 56-year-old Schulz defeated Nirj Deva, a member of the
European Conservatives and Reformists faction that is now home
to Cameron’s Tories in the Strasbourg, France-based legislature,
and Diana Wallis, who belongs to the Liberals, the assembly’s
third-biggest group. Schulz won 387 of the 670 valid votes cast
today.  Cameron’s decision to split from Europe’s  Christian
Democrats  because he objects to their push for deeper EU
political integration has left him outside an alliance that
includes German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , French President
Nicolas Sarkozy and Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy.  In early December, euro-area leaders decided to draft a new
European treaty on budget discipline without the U.K. because
Cameron refused to support an EU-wide initiative in the absence
of guarantees of a British veto right over future financial
regulations. Merkel and Sarkozy opposed that demand.  Financial Services  The 754-seat Parliament decides on EU laws along with
national governments and acts as a check on the European
Commission, the bloc’s executive arm, which proposes
legislation.  Among the busiest areas of new EU laws are financial
services, leaving the U.K. struggling to protect the City of
 London  from proposals ranging from curbs on short selling to a
financial-transaction tax.  Schulz’s Socialists have championed more regulation of
banks to prevent another financial crisis. His election as EU
Parliament president moves him into a largely ceremonial role
from previous positions in which he has had a reputation for
being confrontational.  Schulz made headlines in 2003 as the target of a Nazi slur
by  Silvio Berlusconi , then Italy’s prime minister. In a
Strasbourg debate on Italy’s six-month EU presidency, Schulz
accused Berlusconi of undemocratic leanings and of meddling with
Italy’s justice system. Berlusconi responded by mocking Schulz
as possessing the attributes of a concentration camp guard,
sparking an uproar in the Parliament chamber and across  Europe .
Berlusconi said the insult was meant as a joke and never
apologized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  