-- Glaxo, Roche Breast-Cancer Treatments Work Better Combined, Study Shows
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-01-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/glaxo-roche-breast-cancer-treatments-work-better-combined-study-shows.html
Combining  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s
Tykerb drug with  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Herceptin to treat breast
cancer was almost twice as effective as single-drug therapy,
according to researchers in a 23-country clinical trial.  The rate of eradicating residual invasive breast cancer in
patients given the combination therapy was 51 percent compared
with 30 percent in patients given Herceptin alone and 25 percent
for those receiving Tykerb alone, researchers led by Jose Baselga, associate director at the Massachusetts General
Hospital Cancer Center in  Boston , said in a  study  published
today in The Lancet journal.  Tykerb, known scientifically as lapatinib, is approved in
107 countries to treat metastatic, or late-stage, breast cancer.
The drug is being studied by London-based Glaxo in sequence and
in combination with Herceptin to treat early-stage cancer.
Herceptin, also known as trastuzumab, is the first medicine
approved to directly target HER2, a protein that tells malignant
cells to grow and spread throughout the body. About 25 percent
of breast cancers are driven by HER2.  “Our study provides proof of concept that dual HER2
blockade is better than single-agent anti-HER2 therapy,” the
researchers said in the article.  The study followed 455 women with the HER2 protein who took
the combination or single therapies over a six-week period,
followed by 12 weeks of standard paclitaxel treatment, surgery
and the same drug treatment for one year.  Side Effect  A side effect of Tykerb is diarrhea, which occurred in 21
percent of participants using the combination therapy, compared
with 2 percent taking Herceptin alone.  The trial, funded by Glaxo, is “a model for future
research and clinical trial design” as treatment in the first
phase was given without chemotherapy, allowing tumor response to
be assessed without possible effects from the toxic therapy,
Michael Gnant and Guenther G. Steger, professors at the  Medical
University of Vienna , said in a commentary published with the
Lancet article.  More research is needed to explore how long patients should
receive the targeted therapies to avoid overtreatment, they
wrote.  In a separate study published in The Lancet Oncology
journal today, German researchers compared patients receiving
chemotherapy and Tykerb or Herceptin and found Herceptin to be
more effective. Among those taking the Roche drug, 30 percent
showed no signs of residual invasive breast cancer following the
treatment, compared with 23 percent of patients who received
Tykerb, according to the researchers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  