-- Google Plans Home Page Protest Against U.S. Piracy Measures
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-01-17T21:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/google-plans-home-page-protest-against-u-s-anti-piracy-bills.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  will place a link on its
home page tomorrow protesting anti-piracy measures in the  U.S.
Congress , joining other Internet companies demonstrating against
the Hollywood-backed legislation.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
and Facebook Inc. are among companies opposing House and Senate
bills they say they will hurt the growth of the U.S. technology
industry. Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia where users
contribute entries, said it will shut the English version of its
website for 24 hours tomorrow to protest the measures.  “We oppose these bills because there are smart, targeted
ways to shut down foreign rogue websites without asking American
companies to censor the Internet,” Samantha Smith, a Google
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today.  The Stop Online Piracy Act in the House and the Protect IP
Act in the Senate are backed by the movie and music industries
as a means to crack down on the sale of  counterfeit goods  by
non-U.S. websites. Hollywood studios want lawmakers to ensure
that Internet companies such as Google share responsibility for
curbing the distribution of pirated material.  A legislative push led by the Washington-based  Motion
Picture Association  of America and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
the nation’s largest business-lobbying group, has run into a
backlash from Web companies that say the bills would saddle them
with new liabilities and technology mandates.  ‘Abuse of Power’  Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia, called the decision
to shut the website an “extraordinary” action in response to
the proposed laws, which “endanger free speech both in the
 United States  and abroad, and set a frightening precedent of
Internet censorship for the world.”  Wikipedia, available in 282 languages, contains more than
20 million articles contributed by more than 100,000 volunteers
around the world.  The so-called blackout day to protest anti-piracy
legislation is “abuse of power given the freedoms these
companies enjoy in the marketplace today,”  Christopher Dodd ,
chairman of the  Motion Picture Association of America , said
today in an e-mailed statement.  “It’s a dangerous and troubling development when the
platforms that serve as gateways to information intentionally
skew the facts to incite their users in order to further their
corporate interests,” said Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat who
served three decades in the Senate.  ‘Publicity Stunt’  Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican who
sponsored the House measure, also criticized the planned
Wikipedia shutdown.  “The bill will not harm Wikipedia, domestic blogs or
social networking sites,” Smith, the chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, said today in an e-mailed statement. “This
publicity stunt does a disservice to its users by promoting fear
instead of facts.”  Smith said he expects his committee to resume debate over
the Stop Online Piracy Act in February and didn’t provide a date
for when the panel would act.  The administration of President  Barack Obama  said in a blog
post on Jan. 14 that it wouldn’t support legislation that
encourages censorship, undermines cybersecurity or disrupts the
structure of the Internet.  Vote Pending  The  blog post , by three White House technology officials,
marked the administration’s most significant foray into the
fight between content creators and Web companies playing out in
Congress. The Senate is scheduled to hold a procedural vote Jan.
24 on starting debate on the Protect IP Act.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  called Google a “piracy
leader” in a Jan. 14 post on Twitter, saying it streams movies
for free and sells advertisements around them. A day later he
wrote on Twitter that Google is a “great company doing many
exciting things. Only one complaint, and it’s important.”  Miranda Higham, a  News Corp. (NWSA)  spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Smith, the Google spokeswoman, said the company respects
copyright. “Last year we took down 5 million infringing Web
pages from our search results and invested more than $60 million
in the fight against bad ads,” she said in an e-mail.  The House Judiciary Committee debated the Stop Online
Piracy Act during a 12-hour hearing last month in which
lawmakers offered 60 amendments to the legislation. Panel
members voted on about half of those amendments before the
session was adjourned.  Removing Provision  Smith, the Judiciary Committee chairman, said Jan. 13 that
he would remove a provision that would require Internet-service
providers, when ordered by a court, to block access to non-U.S.
websites offering pirated content.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat who leads the
Senate Judiciary Committee, said Jan. 12 that he’s willing to
consider dropping a similar provision from the bill he
sponsored. Opponents say such website-blocking may harm the
stability of the Internet’s domain-name system.  The Senate measure cleared Leahy’s committee in May and
awaits consideration by the full chamber.  The Senate bill is S. 968 and the House bill is H.R. 3261.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  