-- Greece Running Out of Time as Debt Talks Stumble: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-01-17T10:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/greece-running-out-of-time-as-debt-talks-stumble-euro-credit.html
Greece  is running out of time to
avoid becoming the first euro nation to default after talks with
lenders stalled ahead of a March 20 bond payment that will cost
14.5 billion euros ($18 billion) the country doesn’t have.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is due to meet tomorrow with
a group representing private Greek bondholders after a five-day
break to discuss forgiving at least half of the nation’s debt in
the euro area’s first sovereign restructuring. Greece’s official
creditors begin talks Jan. 20 on spending curbs and budget cuts
that will determine whether to disburse additional aid.  Edward Parker , a managing director at  Fitch Ratings  in London, said
today Greece is unlikely to make next month’s bond payment.  “The next few weeks will be the most difficult in the
Greek program,” said Athanasios Vamvakidis, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of America Corp. in  London . “All this needs
to be completed by mid-March to avoid a disorderly default. Not
an impossible task, but clearly very challenging with very much
at stake.”  Until the debt swap and loan accord are in place, the
country faces “acute economic risks,” Papademos said on Jan.
13. Greece sold 1.625 billion euros of 13-week Treasury bills
today at a yield of 4.64 percent, with short-maturity debt sales
the only source of market financing available for the nation.
Bonds repayable in 2022 are worth about a third of their face
value.  Tough Talking  Greece and its creditors are “running out of time,”
 Moritz Kraemer , the head of sovereign ratings at Standard &
Poor’s Corp., said in an interview yesterday with  Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word.” Kraemer said
he can’t say “whether there will be a solution at the end of
the current rocky negotiations. There’s a lot of brinkmanship
going on right now.”  Concern that Papademos won’t have domestic backing to
achieve spending cuts needed to win more funds or that they will
further hamper growth helped drive Greek  two-year yields  to an
all-time high of 185 percent on Jan. 10. The yield on Greek
benchmark debt maturing in October 2022 fell 46 basis points to
33.55 percent today, after hitting a record of 36.14 percent on
Dec. 21.  Greece plans to pay lenders 50 cents for each euro the
government borrowed under the terms of a bailout plan agreed on
Oct. 26. Its 4 percent notes due in August 2013 trade at about
27 cents. Fitch says an agreement would amount to a “default
event” once implemented, while the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association says it won’t trigger credit-default
swaps bought by investors as insurance against the country
failing to meet its obligations.  IIF Bondholders  Frank Vogl , an IIF spokesman, blamed the breakdown in talks
on disagreement over the coupon, or  interest rate , to be paid on
new bonds and on discord among different authorities involved in
the talks. The IIF is representing bondholders in the talks with
officials from the  International Monetary Fund , the European
Union and the Greek government.  “There have been differences of views among the official
parties to the negotiations, despite the best efforts of the
Greek government’s leadership,” Vogl said yesterday. It’s
important that the talks conclude “as soon as possible,” he
said.  Debt Burden  The proposed swap aims to slice 100 billion euros from the
205 billion euros of privately owned Greek debt, with the help
of 30 billion euros in cash for incentives to reach a debt-to-
gross domestic product ratio of 120 percent by the end of 2020.
That will relieve Greece of some 4 billion euros in annual debt
servicing costs. The ratio was 162 percent in 2011, according to
IMF estimates.  The targeted ratio is a “realistic outcome” for the
talks, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
yesterday at the European Parliament in Strasbourg. Slower
growth and a lack of progress on reforms since the Oct. 26
summit make it essential that the talks address how Greece will
meet its debt obligations, Draghi said.  Greece’s public debt management agency head Petros Christodoulou and George Zanias, the chairman of the council of
economic advisers, traveled to  Washington  yesterday to meet with
members of the IMF in Washington to discuss the swap, a finance
ministry official said, confirming an Imerisia newspaper report.  “I still hope that they come to a solution because it is
absolutely crucial,”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer
 Josef Ackermann , who is also the chairman of the IIF, said
yesterday. “I think we are in a situation where everybody is
trying to get the most out of it, but in the end we’ll come to
an agreement.”  Deferred Rewards  European governments have been pushing for the Greek debt
to carry a coupon of 4 percent, said a person with direct
knowledge of the negotiations on Jan. 13. Private bondholders
said they would accept those terms for a period of time if they
were able to get a bigger payout later as Greece’s economy
recovered, said the person, who declined to be identified.  The IMF had previously sought a lower coupon than the range
offered by investors to ensure Greece meets its deficit targets
as the economic outlook worsens.  After two years of wage cuts and tax increases, the IMF
estimates the country’s 2011  deficit  at about 9 percent of GDP,
down from 10.6 percent in 2010. The economy was expected to
shrink about 6 percent last year, according to the latest IMF
estimates, compared with an estimate of 3.8 percent made in
June.  An inability to implement reforms led the IMF to cut its
forecasts for Greece three times in six months last year and
delay the payment of loans under the May 2010 package, with an 8
billion-euro outlay originally due in September being paid last
month. Failure to complete the voluntary swap threatens to
further undermine confidence in the EU’s crisis leadership.  Ability to Pay  “The big problem remains that even if a deal is reached,
the debt burden is still unsustainable,” said Martin Blum, co-
head of asset management at Ithuba Capital in Vienna. “This
isn’t only a big problem for Greece, it also makes it more
difficult for creditors to reach a deal given they’ll still have
Greek credit risk after the deal.”  Hedge funds  holding Greek bonds may resist a deal, seeking
to reap greater profit by getting paid in full, either by the
Greek government or by triggering payouts from default-swap
insurance contracts.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said Jan. 14 his
country aims to present the outline of the plan at a meeting of
euro-area finance ministers on Jan. 23, with a final agreement
taking until early March.  “It is one thing to have an
agreement with creditors,” he said. “It is another to execute
the agreement.”  Eking Out  The country is surviving on the 8 billion-euro loan paid
last month by the IMF and the EU, and proceeds from treasury
bill sales. Greece raised 2 billion euros in a sale of 26-week
bills last week at a yield of 4.9 percent, compared with 4.95
percent at the previous such sale on Dec. 13.  The downgrade of European ratings by S&P last week suggests
countries can fail to meet their debt obligations and Greece
will prove to be the latest example,  Bill Gross , who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in a Twitter posting yesterday.  France and  Austria  lost their top rankings in a series of
downgrades Jan. 13 that left  Germany  with the euro area’s only
stable AAA grade. S&P cut Greece’s grade to CC in July, meaning
the nation’s debt is “highly vulnerable” to nonpayment, based
on the company’s rating  definitions .  Portuguese Yields  “Even if there is a so-called voluntary exchange we would
still consider this a distressed debt exchange and a default
under our criteria,” Kraemer of S&P said on a Jan. 14
conference call. “Important to keep in mind is not only the
direct impact for the debt of Greece, but if you had a
disorderly default, this may have worse implications for other
sovereign debtors which are under market pressure.”  Portugal  and Cyprus are the other two euro-area countries
that lost their investment grade status last week at S&P.
Portugal is already in an EU-sponsored bailout plan, like
Greece, to shield the country from high borrowing costs. Cyprus,
whose three biggest banks together hold more than 5 billion
euros in Greek government debt, isn’t.  Portugal’s 10-year borrowing cost surged to a record 14.3
percent yesterday, climbing almost 1.9 percentage points in the
wake of the rating downgrade. The yield is little changed at
about 13.23 percent today.  “Unless Greece implements the urgently needed reforms, no
haircut can achieve debt sustainability,” said Vamvakidis. “I
think there is more than 50 percent chance they will succeed. My
concern is if they don’t, there is no clear Plan B. No PSI
agreement and very low participation could increase market
uncertainty about what could follow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  