-- Greece Is Insolvent, Will Default on Debt: Fitch
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-01-17T12:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/greece-is-insolvent-will-default-on-its-debt-fitch-says.html
Greece is insolvent and probably
won’t be able to honor a bond payment in March as the country
negotiates with creditors to cut its debt burden, Fitch Ratings
Managing Director  Edward Parker  said.  The euro area’s most indebted country is unlikely to be
able to honor a March 20 bond payment of 14.5 billion euros ($18
billion), Parker said today in an interview in Stockholm.
Efforts to arrange a private sector deal on how to handle
Greece’s obligations would constitute a default, he said.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is scheduled to meet
tomorrow with a group representing private bondholders after a
five-day break to hold talks on forgiving at least 50 percent of
the nation’s debt in the euro area’s first sovereign
restructuring. Greece’s official creditors begin talks Jan. 20
on spending curbs and budget cuts that will determine whether to
disburse additional aid.  “The so-called private sector involvement, for us, would
count as a default, it clearly is a default in our book,”
Parker said. “So it won’t be a surprise when the Greek default
actually happens and we expect it one way or the other to be
relatively soon.”  ‘Restricted Default’  Fitch in July downgraded  Greece  to CCC, seven levels below
investment grade. The rating company in July also said Greece
will be considered a “restricted default” after a European
bailout plan was unveiled that included getting bondholders to
assume part of the cost.  The yield on Greek benchmark debt maturing in October 2022
fell 45 basis points to 33.6 percent, after hitting a record of
36.14 percent on Dec. 21.  The proposed debt swap aims to slice 100 billion euros from
the 205 billion euros of privately owned Greek debt, with the
help of 30 billion euros in cash for incentives to reach a debt-
to-gross domestic product ratio of 120 percent by the end of
2020. That will relieve Greece of some 4 billion euros in annual
debt servicing costs. The ratio was 162 percent in 2011,
according to IMF estimates.  The targeted ratio is a “realistic outcome” for the
talks, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
yesterday at the European Parliament in Strasbourg. Slower
growth and a lack of progress on reforms since the Oct. 26
summit make it essential that the talks address how Greece will
meet its debt obligations, Draghi said.  Debt Ratio Rising  The “government debt-to-GDP ratio is 160 percent and
rising so it can’t pay its debts,” Parker said. “Plan A is for
the PSI negotiations to resume and reach a voluntary agreement
and if that isn’t possible, I would expect an involuntary debt
exchange to be set up and for them to complete that by that date
in March.”  Two days of talks in  Athens  between Greece and the
 Institute of International Finance , which represents the
country’s private creditors, broke off on Jan. 13 without an
agreement.  Frank Vogl , an IIF spokesman, blamed the breakdown in
talks on disagreement over the coupon, or  interest rate , to be
paid on new bonds and on discord among different authorities
involved in the talks.  The country is surviving on the 8 billion-euro loan paid
last month by the IMF and the EU, and proceeds from Treasury
bill sales. Greece raised 1.6 billion euros in a sale of 13-week
bills today at a yield of 4.64 percent, compared with 4.68
percent at the previous such sale on Dec. 20.  Standard & Poor’s  last week downgraded nine euro area
nations, including cutting  France ’s AAA rating. The downgrades
by S&P suggest countries can fail to meet their debt obligations
and Greece will prove to be the latest example,  Bill Gross , who
runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in a Twitter post yesterday.  Europe ’s debt crisis is likely to be “long and drawn
out,” Parker said. “There is simply not enough political will
to jump to some fiscal union, in the sense of joint and several
guaranteeing of euro zone government debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  