-- Acropolis Succumbs to Debt Crisis as Greece Cuts Filming Costs
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-01-17T22:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/greece-cuts-filming-fees-at-acropolis.html
The Acropolis,  Greece ’s star
attraction for 2,500 years, may be preparing for a bigger role.  The Greek government lowered the permit costs this month
for using archaeological sites and museums for film crews to
1,600 euros ($2,039) a day from as much as 4,000 euros in a 2005
pricelist, and for professional photographers to 200 euros from
300 euros, according to the  Culture and Tourism Ministry .
Historical spots include the Acropolis, which houses the
Parthenon, and Delphi, home of the ancient oracle.  The previous prices were “excessive” and this prevented
some groups from being able to use images of Greece, George
Andreas Zannos, an adviser to the ministry, said in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday.  Cash-strapped Greece is trying to squeeze more money out of
its monuments as the government battles to avert a debt default
and collapse of the country’s economy.  The cost to use pictures of state-owned sites and museums
in publications, from art history books and encyclopedias to
tourist guides and magazines, was cut to as low as 30 euros per
shot from 100 euros, based on statements dated October 2005 and
January this year from the ministry in  Athens .  A list of monuments such as the Temple of Poseidon at
Sounion will be included in a 60-euro per shot category,
according to the new price-list. All categories will now carry
discounts after the first 10 photographs.  Making Money  Previously, “publishers refrained from publishing books
with images of archaeological content and museums” and sites
lacked guides and books with images, Zannas said. All revenue
will be used by the ministry, he said.  The Culture and Tourism Ministry’s budget has been cut 20
percent since 2010. Receipts from visits to museums and
archaeological sites rose 5.3 percent to 41.2 million euros in
the first nine months of last year, the Athens-based  Hellenic
Statistical Authority  said on Jan. 10.  The ministry also is working on speeding up the process of
obtaining a permit, which hindered film production companies
from using locations in Greece in the past, Zannas said.  Nia Vardalos, writer and star of “My Big Fat Greek
Wedding,” said there were many restrictions in trying to get
permission to film scenes of “My Life in Ruins” in 2009 on the
Acropolis site, according to a video interview on
Greekreporter.gr in May 2009.  “I hope that we set an example in that we went and we shot
and didn’t break anything,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  