-- Gross Says Euro Debt Downgrades May Force Selling: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-17T16:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/gross-says-euro-zone-debt-downgrades-may-trigger-forced-selling-tom-keene.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said credit-rating cuts of euro-area debt may trigger
some forced selling by investors who are required to hold only
the highest quality securities in their portfolios.  “There are those that say the downgrades don’t matter,”
Gross, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “In fact they don’t for the most part. But there are
regulatory issues in the case of structures that are dependent
on certain types of ratings and to the extent that various
countries get downgraded, then those positions have to be
reduced if only because of regulation.”  Standard & Poor’s  announced after financial markets closed
on Jan. 13 that it was downgrading the debt of several European
nations included  France , Italy, Portugal and Spain, while
 Germany  was affirmed at AAA. France was cut to AA+ from AAA and
the rating was assigned a negative outlook. S&P warned that
crisis-fighting efforts of euro area leaders were falling short.  Spanish and Italian bonds rose for a second day as
borrowing costs fell at sales of government bills from Belgium
to Greece, damping concern that credit downgrades would drive
 Europe ’s debt yields higher.  The yield on 10-year Spanish bonds fell six basis points,
or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.12 percent at 10:58 a.m. New York
time. The rate on the securities jumped nine basis points to
5.22 percent on Jan. 13 amid reports of an imminent downgrade.  Draghi Comments  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said investors
largely priced in the euro-area sovereign downgrades from S&P
and questioned the importance of ratings companies.  “I will never comment on ratings as such, but certainly
one needs to ask how important are these ratings for the
marketplace overall, for investors?” Draghi said yesterday at
the European Parliament in Strasbourg.  Greece , the euro area’s most indebted country, is unlikely
to be able to honor a March 20 bond payment of 14.5 billion
euros ($18.5 billion), Fitch Ratings Managing Director  Edward
Parker  said today in Stockholm. Efforts to arrange a private
sector deal on how to handle Greece’s obligations would
constitute a default, he said.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is scheduled to meet
tomorrow with a group representing private bondholders after a
five-day break to hold talks on forgiving at least 50 percent of
the nation’s debt in the euro area’s first sovereign
restructuring. Greece’s official creditors begin talks Jan. 20
on spending curbs and budget cuts that will determine whether to
disburse additional aid.  Greece Debt  “The critical question to me, and at Pimco, is at what
level is the new coupon” on the restructured Greek debt, Gross
said. “They are talking about a 50 percent haircut but
critically it’s important what the future coupon on the new debt
is.”  Pimco has been advising investors to buy U.S. Treasuries,
long-term inflation-indexed U.S. debt, “high-quality”
corporates, senior bank debt and municipal securities.  The $244 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  run by Gross increased
its holdings of  U.S. government debt  in December to 30 percent,
the highest level in 13 months. He had eliminated Treasuries
from his fund in February before adding them back in November.  Treasuries returned 9.8 percent in 2011, while Gross’s
Total Return Fund gained 4.2 percent, underperforming about 70
percent of its rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The fund has increased 2.03 percent in the past month,
outperforming 98 percent of its rivals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  