-- Gubre to Acquire N. African Phosphate Asset to Lower Costs
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-01-17T15:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/gubre-to-acquire-n-african-phosphate-asset-to-lower-costs-1-.html
Gubre Fabrikalari TAS (GUBRF) , a Turkish
fertilizer maker known as Gubretas, is seeking to buy a
phosphate producer in North Africa to tap access to cheaper raw
materials, Chief Executive Officer Mehmet Koca said.  The target phosphate company would supply Gubretas’s
factories in  Turkey , and Gubretas may spend $150 million to $1
billion, Koca said in an interview today. The Istanbul-based
company isn’t holding any “concrete talks yet” and there are
no plans to hire a financial adviser, he said.  Turkey, which uses 5 million metric tons of fertilizer
annually, imports two-fifths of its requirements and fertilizer
makers also ship in the raw materials, Koca said. About 60
percent of Turkish fertilizer production is based on nitrogen
and 30 percent on phosphate, he said. Gubretas bought half of
 Razi Petrochemical Co.  for $650 million in 2008 as lower
natural-gas prices in  Iran  spurred production of fertilizer raw
materials such as ammonia and urea.  “We want to have something similar in North Africa to what
we did in Iran,” Koca said. “We want to buy a phosphate maker
so that the raw material for our phosphate-based fertilizer
production becomes cheaper.”  Gubretas shares rose 1 percent to 10.7 liras at 4:31 p.m.
in Istanbul trade, the highest level in four days.  U.S. Sanctions  Razi’s operations aren’t affected by trade sanctions on
Iran for developing nuclear sites, which the U.S. says is for
making atomic bombs, an allegation rejected by the Persian Gulf
nation.  “Razi’s trade with other countries is based on non-dollar
currencies including Japanese yen and the euro, which are
outside the U.S. embargo,” Koca said.  Razi sells its products inside Iran and also to markets
like  China ,  India  and  Bangladesh  through Rain Trade Co., a
company it owns in Turkey that transfers cash to Razi in Iranian
riyals and other currencies, he said. Some Turkish state and
private banks are also involved in currency transfers with Razi,
he said, declining to name them.  Gubretas aims to boost sales 6 percent this year, after 8
percent growth in 2011 to 2.3 billion liras ($1.2 billion). Of
the total, 1.2 billion liras is from Turkey, Koca said. Iranian
unit Razi had a profit of $250 million in 2011, he said.  The fertilizer market in Turkey is expected to grow
3 percent this year after it shrank 2 percent in 2011 with
increased prices. “Prices will fall this year and this will
grow the market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  