-- Microsoft Takes on VMware With Almost-Canceled Cloud Program
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-01-17T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/microsoft-takes-on-vmware-with-almost-canceled-cloud-program.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s computer-network-
management software, a product that Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Ballmer  once came close to scrapping, emerges today as the
cornerstone of a bid to challenge VMware Inc.  A new version of System Center 2012 will be released as
part of its final testing phase, said Brad Anderson, a vice
president in Microsoft’s management and security division. The
software is used with Windows and virtualization software,
letting companies turn their servers into so-called private
clouds. The offering is cheaper than VMware’s competing product
and has equivalent features, Anderson said.  Companies use cloud computing to store and run programs via
the Internet. While the approach spares them from having to
store data locally, many businesses want to run them in-house
for better control; hence, the appeal of private clouds. Though
VMware has an edge in this area, Microsoft should pose a
stronger challenge this year, said Al Gillen, an analyst at
Framingham, Massachusetts-based research firm IDC.  “The stage is being set for a very brutal competition
between Microsoft and VMware,” he said. “You are going to see
a lot of focus around price. Until now,  VMware’s (VMW)  functionality
has been so much better that they haven’t had to compete on
price. That’s going to change.”  One of the goals of cloud computing is to give customers
access to a pool of computing power and storage that can easily
be assigned to a particular program, without the need for
information-technology staff.  Public and Private  Companies like Microsoft and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  that run
public clouds use their own data centers to store and operate
programs for customers. In a private cloud, the client wants the
same flexibility, cost savings and ease of use in their own data
centers. While that requires virtualization software to combine
multiple programs on one server, it also relies on network-
management software like System Center, Anderson said.  Cloud has been a key factor in the rising importance of
Microsoft’s management software. When Anderson joined the
company in 2003 from  Novell Inc. (NOVL) , he said the product, then
called Systems Management Server, was largely used to help
companies roll out programs and security patches to workers.  Development was running more than two years late and
unbeknownst to Anderson at the time, Ballmer had told the
leadership team that if the schedule slipped again, he would
cancel the product. After a few weeks at Microsoft, Anderson sat
in his first meeting with Chairman  Bill Gates , who asked him why
the company needed it at all.  Billion-Dollar Sales  At the time, Microsoft got about $250 million in annual
sales from management software, Anderson said. Two years ago,
the business broke the $1 billion mark, he said. Anderson
declined to provide more recent revenue numbers. VMware, based
in  Palo Alto ,  California , doesn’t break out revenue for its
equivalent business line.  Even with the growth, Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
hasn’t been able to compete on a par with VMware, Anderson said.
Four years ago, at meetings with customers at a Microsoft
conference in  Barcelona ,  Spain , that message was clear, he said.  “I came away feeling we have a lot of work to do,” he
said. “That even though their price was 5X ours, we didn’t have
the capabilities to even have that conversation.”  In recent years, with improvements to the management tools,
as well as Windows Server and Microsoft’s Hyper-V virtualization
software, that’s starting to change. After the debut of the last
test version today, the final System Center 2012 will be
released in the first half of the year.  Unilever, Lufthansa  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, counts
 Unilever NV (UNA)  among its private-cloud  customers , Anderson said.  VMware still has an advantage because of its leading role
in virtualization software, which gives more flexibility to
servers. Microsoft’s Hyper-V product has 25 percent of the
market, according to IDC, compared with VMware’s 52 percent.  Companies that already have VMware installed will stick
with it if they opt for private clouds, Gillen said. Still,
Microsoft will provide stronger competition for new projects, he
said.  “This is the release that gets them really into the
private-cloud conversation,” said Mary Johnston Turner, also an
analyst at IDC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  