-- India Clean Energy Surge Enters Next Phase
-- B y   A s h i s h   S e t h i a
-- 2012-01-17T20:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/india-clean-energy-surge-enters-next-phase.html
India  is known for setting ambitious development goals and then missing them
by a margin that might be laughable if it weren’t so serious. Case in point:
Seven years ago, the slogan ‘Power for All by 2012,’ became national policy.
Today, India has 288 million people living without electricity access, according
to a November 2011 International Energy Agency report. Renewable energy offers an exception to India’s history of overpromised
goals. The nation overshot its installation target by 100 percent just two years
after “Power for All” became policy. Since then, renewable energy in India has
been growing quickly. In March 2007, India had 10.2 GW of renewable energy. That
more than doubled by the end of 2011, to over 22 GW accounting for 11% of
India's power generation capacity. Bloomberg New Energy Finance tracks money
flowing into projects,  venture capital  and private equity deals, and public
market fundraising. We found that India led nations in the growth of renewable
energy investment in 2011, with a 52 percent jump to $10.3 billion, helped by a
growing wind sector and accelerating solar market. The Western press has acknowledged for several years the first wave of Indian
businessmen who made it big in renewables, typified by  Tulsi Tanti , founder of
wind-turbine giant Suzlon. Now, a new class of entrepreneurs is targeting rural
poor lacking power and cities thirsty for more. For example, Selco provides
solar lighting to rural areas without electricity. It’s led by Harish Hande,
2011 winner of the prestigious Magsaysay Award, given to individuals who help
address systemic poverty, poor health and lack of opportunity in  Asia . Gyanesh
Pandey runs Husk Power Systems, which generates power using decentralized small-
scale plants and sells it at low rates to rural households. Since 2009, it has
raised $400,000 to $1.3 million from investors like Shell Foundation, Draper
Fisher Jurvetson and the  International Finance Corporation . Sumant Sinha left
Suzlon to form ReNew Wind Power, which hopes to build a gigawatt of generation
capacity by 2015. Goldman Sachs bought majority stake in the company for 10
billion rupees ($200 million) in September 2011. These examples suggest the initial challenges facing renewable energy in
India have largely been overcome. Generation needed to become cheaper, efficient
and scalable. It has. Now, Indian power distributors have become the key
roadblock in the growth of renewables. The grid must be modernized to withstand
more large-scale connected projects. Power distribution companies are the main
buyers of renewable power and their financial health is deteriorating rapidly.
Fixing this new set of problems will mean overhauling the existing system.
Perhaps grid modernization can follow the success of renewable energy and not
the fantasy of “Power for All.” Inflation, high  interest rates  and other factors stand in the way of growth,
too. But the $4.2 billion India invested in solar in 2011 is reassuring for this
relatively new sector.  This year will mark an inflection point in India's
renewable energy growth story; I believe it will be in the positive
direction. The author is the Head of Research-India at  Bloomberg New Energy Finance .
 Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest from Bloomberg News
about energy, natural resources and global business.