-- India to End Wind Farm Tax Break Next Fiscal, Official Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-17T09:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/india-may-end-tax-break-for-wind-farms-this-year-official-says.html
India will discontinue a tax break
for wind farms starting in April, the beginning of the financial
year, potentially stalling growth in a $3 billion market
dominated by turbine-supplier  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)   “Accelerated depreciation will go away in April,” Dilip
Nigam, director of wind policy at the Ministry of New and
 Renewable Energy , said in an interview in Mumbai today.  General Electric Co., Siemens AG, and  Spain ’s  Gamesa
Corporacion Tecnologica SA (GAM)  are expanding wind-turbine
manufacturing capacity in India in a bid to take market share
from Suzlon, India’s biggest wind-turbine maker. New
installations next year may fall 15 percent, or a decline of
$540 million in investment, if the federal tax break ends,
Bloomberg New Energy Finance forecast in July.  Accelerated depreciation allows companies to write off
investments at a faster rate, helping reduce tax liabilities.
Suzlon shares rose 3.1 percent to 23.2 rupees, the highest in
more than a month, as of 2:39 p.m. in Mumbai. The benchmark
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  climbed 1.8 percent.  The government has said it will end the incentive either on
March 31 or with the introduction of a new taxation framework
“whichever comes first,” Nigam said. “In either case, it will
end in April unless the government takes a special decision to
surpass” the previous decision.  Demand could dip for about two years before growth resumes
as the industry adjusts to changes in state incentives, Nigam
said.  Generation-Based Incentive  Renewable Energy Minister Farooq Abdullah said on Feb. 17
the accounting method has encouraged companies to erect wind
projects as a way of cutting taxes rather than generating power.
The ministry favors extending an alternate subsidy called
generation-based incentive that rewards wind power producers for
the amount of electricity produced, Nigam said.  The government may continue the generation based subsidy,
which pays wind farms 500 rupees ($9.8) for every megawatt-hour
fed to the grid, next financial year, Nigam said.  Suzlon supplies about half of all new wind installations in
 India , according to the Indian Wind Turbine Manufacturers’
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  