-- Indianapolis Colts Fire Caldwell After Finishing Season With a 2-14 Record
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-17T21:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/indianapolis-colts-fire-caldwell-after-finishing-season-with-a-2-14-record.html
Jim Caldwell was fired as coach of
the  Indianapolis Colts , who had dismissed Bill Polian as vice
chairman and his son Chris Polian as general manager after their
worst season in 20 years.  The Colts hired Ryan Grigson, the Philadelphia Eagles
director of player personnel, as their GM last week. Grigson
said he met for seven hours over the weekend with Caldwell, who
has a 28-24 record since succeeding  Tony Dungy  as the Colts’
coach before the 2009 National Football League season.  “Change sometimes isn’t always easy, but it’s part of this
game, part of this league and part of the steps needed to get
going in this new era of Colts football,” Grigson said at a
televised news conference.  Caldwell, who had been part of the team’s coaching staff
since 2002, was unable to overcome the loss of quarterback
Peyton Manning this season as the Colts tied for the league’s
worst record at 2-14. Manning, a four-time NFL Most Valuable
Player, missed the entire season after neck surgery.  “Ryan and I had a chance to evaluate the situation
thoroughly since he was hired and this was the direction we
needed to go,” Colts owner Jim Irsay said.  Caldwell’s departure comes a week after the  Oakland Raiders 
fired coach Hue Jackson following the hire of GM Reggie McKenzie,
who said it was time for the organization to “start anew.”
There had been calls for Caldwell’s ouster in Indianapolis,
including a website called  firecoachcaldwell.net  that featured a
petition with almost 6,000 signatures.  First Pick  The Colts have the first pick in the April draft and are in
position to take Stanford University quarterback  Andrew Luck ,
who is regarded by draft analysts as the No. 1 player available.
Manning is 35 years old, may be nearing the end of his career
after 14 years in the NFL, and his health remains a question as
he recovers from his neck injury.  Irsay is certain the Colts will draft Luck, ESPN reported
last week before the hiring of Grigson, who helped the Eagles
bring in six Pro Bowl players over the past two seasons. Grigson
directed the Eagles’ college scouting from 2006 to 2009,
drafting running back LeSean McCoy and wide receiver  DeSean Jackson . Both have made Pro Bowl appearances.  The Colts reached the  Super Bowl  in Caldwell’s first season
as coach, winning their first 14 games and going 16-2 before
losing to the  New Orleans Saints  in the NFL’s title game.
Indianapolis went 10-7 last year, winning at least 10 games and
making the playoffs for the 11th time in 12 seasons.  Polian Era  Polian ran the front office and Manning was at quarterback
throughout that span, winning the Super Bowl title after the
2006 season. Polian was hired in 1998 and drafted Manning with
the first pick that year, when Jim Mora was brought in as coach
to replace Lindy Infante.  “Just like it was in 1998 with the uncertainty, it’s tough
to change,” Irsay said. “We’ve had such excellence and
greatness over a long period of time here and that’s what I
expect us to return to. But it’s not an overnight process.”  Manning had neck surgery following the 2010 campaign, and
setbacks in his recovery prevented him from playing this season.
His streak of 227 consecutive starts dating back to 1998 ended
in Week 1 and the Colts opened the season 0-13 without him,
scoring more than 20 points just twice.  The Colts tied for 29th of 32 NFL teams in points scored
and surrendered the fifth most points in the league. It was the
franchise’s worst season since 1991, when the Colts went 1-15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  