-- Inflation Slows to Six-Month Low of 4.2%  as Fuel, Clothing Prices Abate
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-01-17T11:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/inflation-slows-to-six-month-low-of-4-2-as-fuel-clothing-prices-abate.html
U.K. inflation  slowed in December to
its weakest pace in six months as stores discounted clothing to
boost sales and petrol prices fell, easing pressure on consumers
amid concern the economy may already be back in recession.  Consumer prices rose an annual 4.2 percent compared with
4.8 percent in November and a peak of 5.2 percent in September,
the  Office for National Statistics  said today in  London . It was
the biggest drop in the inflation rate since April 2009, the
depth of the last recession. Prices rose 0.4 percent on the
month.  The  Bank of England  forecasts inflation will slow sharply
this year, providing relief to consumers as the European
sovereign debt crisis and rising unemployment weigh on the
recovery. Ernst & Young said yesterday a second recession may
already be under way. The Bank of England will expand its 275
billion-pound ($423 billion)  bond-buying program  next month,
economists at Citigroup Inc. and Nomura International predict.  “We’re going to see inflation drop very sharply over the
next six months, which is quite good news from the point of view
of the broader economy in terms of supporting  consumer
spending ,” said David Tinsley, chief U.K. economist at BNP
Paribas SA in London. “It’s still the case that there’s plenty
of scope for more monetary loosening, or more quantitative
easing.”  The pound rose against the dollar after the report and was
trading at $1.5384 as of 11:29 a.m. in London, up 0.4 percent on
the day. Bonds stayed lower, with the yield on the 10-year gilt
up 4 basis points at 2.005 percent.  Core Prices  Core annual inflation , which excludes alcohol, food,
tobacco and energy prices, slowed to 3 percent from 3.2 percent.
Retail-price inflation, a measure used in wage negotiations,
slowed to 4.8 percent from 5.2 percent. The retail-price index
excluding mortgage-interest payments rose 5 percent, down from
5.3 percent.  The monthly increase in consumer prices was less than half
the 1 percent gain seen a year earlier. Retailers including
 Marks & Spencer Plc  and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  cut prices in December to lure
cash-strapped shoppers during the key holiday trading period.  There were monthly declines in the prices of clothing and
footwear, petrol and alcoholic drinks, while gas and electricity
costs were unchanged. Upward pressure on inflation came from
landline and mobile telephone charges.  ‘Welcome Relief’  The Bank of England predicts that inflation, which has been
above its 2 percent target for more than two years, will ease to
1.7 percent at the end of 2012 as a January 2011 sales-tax
increase drops out of the annual comparison and energy costs
decline.  Slower inflation will be “welcome relief for family
budgets,” the U.K. Treasury said in a statement. “Inflation is
expected to keep falling through this year, helped by the price
cuts announced by energy companies this month.”  Crude  oil prices  have fallen to $100 a barrel from about
$115 a barrel in May, easing pressure on companies and
consumers. EON AG and Scottish Power Ltd. cut their tariffs
yesterday, joining other large energy suppliers jostling to
offer the cheapest supply as wholesale costs fall.  Ernst & Young’s ITEM Club said yesterday the economy will
probably shrink in the current quarter after contracting in the
last three months of 2011, with no improvement until mid-year.
The group cut its 2012 growth forecast to 0.2 percent from 1.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  