-- Rubin Pleads Guilty to Moving Illegal Online Poker Payments
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-17T20:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/ira-rubin-will-plead-guilty-in-online-poker-case-u-s-court-clerk-says.html
Ira Rubin, who was accused of
helping process billions of dollars in payments for illegal
online gambling businesses, pleaded guilty to conspiracy
charges.  Rubin, 53, was accused of illegally processing payments for
PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker and  Absolute Poker , the leading
online poker sites doing business with U.S. customers. Facing
nine criminal counts, he admitted today to three charges of
conspiracy in  Manhattan  federal court.  Rubin, wearing a tan prison uniform, entered a guilty plea
before U.S. Magistrate Judge Gabriel Gorenstein. According to a
plea agreement with prosecutors, Rubin faces a prison term of 18
to 24 months under federal sentencing guidelines, which aren’t
binding.  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. enacted a law in
2006 barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites, PokerStars, Full Tilt and Absolute worked around the
ban to continue operating in the U.S.  The government claims Rubin worked from  Costa Rica , where
he lived since fleeing to avoid a U.S. arrest warrant in 2008,
helping offshore poker companies move “billions of dollars in
illegal gambling proceeds” disguised as payments to phony
Internet merchants. The shell companies Rubin created included a
fake golf store and electronics business, prosecutors said.  Rubin, who was arrested in April, was charged in an
indictment with 10 other defendants, including top officers of
the poker companies. He tried to fly to  Thailand  to avoid
prosecution, according to the government. Rubin has been in
custody since his arrest.  Rubin’s criminal record dates to the 1970s, according to
prosecutors, and includes at least 24 different crimes.  The case is U.S. v. Rubin, 10-CR-336, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  