-- Italian Church Chased on Property Tax as Debt Crisis Leaves Nothing Sacred
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2012-01-17T23:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/italian-church-chased-on-property-tax-as-debt-crisis-leaves-nothing-sacred.html
Nothing may prove to be untouchable
in the European debt crisis.  The Catholic Church in  Italy  is under pressure from both
governing and opposition politicians to start paying taxes on
all its commercial property after Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
asked Italians to swallow 20 billion euros ($25.5 billion) of
budget cuts and pay a levy on their homes.  “The church has always been the target of harsh polemics,
but the pressure has never been so high,” said Francesco Perfetti, professor of contemporary history at the Luiss
University in Rome. “The debt crisis is forcing governments to
reconsider even those privileges that were deemed sacrosanct.”  Religion’s role in the economy is being scrutinized as
nations endure some of the most severe budget cuts in a
generation and where the subject of clerical wealth has long
been taboo. Greece taxes income from the Orthodox Church, though
exemptions remain.  Italy would gain an additional 100 million euros from
increasing levies on the church to include all its commercial
property, said Paolo Berdini, urban planner and consultant for
local administrations. ARES 2000, a research company in Rome,
put the figure as high as 2.2 billion euros.  A tax would send “the right signal,” Nicola Marinelli,
who oversees $153 million at Glendevon King Asset Management in
 London , said in an e-mail. “It’s unclear how much income it
would generate for the state, but firstly, every little bit
helps, and secondly, it would be easier for the rest of society
to accept the sacrifices it is being asked to undertake.”  Radical Approach  The Catholic Church owns about 100,000 properties in Italy,
a third of which are commercial, according to the Italian
Radicals party, which historically has challenged the church.  “We need to change the law and establish a sensible
principle: all commercial activities, no matter who runs them,
have to pay taxes,”  Mario Staderini , secretary of the party,
said in an interview. “Otherwise there is unfair competition
with those who runs a business without a religious signboard.”  Support for change also comes from Environment Minister
Corrado Clini, who said last month in a speech in Genoa that the
church must pay because there is “no room for privileges.”  Ambiguous Law  The church must pay property tax on buildings that are
designated as “purely commercial,” based on an Italian law
originating 20 years ago and extended in a 2006 amendment. The
wording is ambiguous when it comes to clinics that have a chapel
or monasteries that offer bed and breakfast accommodation and
leaves room for “undeserved exemptions,” said Ugo Arrigo, an
economics professor at  Bicocca University in Milan .  “The Church really wants to respect the obligations that
we have with the State and with the citizens,” Beniamino
Depalma, bishop of Nola, near Naples, said in an interview.  Talks are continuing between Monti and the country’s top
bishop, Angelo Bagnasco, on how to eliminate the “grey zone”
around tax exemptions, daily il  Corriere della Sera  reported on
Jan. 9. An agreement may be announced as soon as the middle of
next month, the newspaper said.  Both the technocrat government, led by Monti since he was
sworn in on Nov. 16, and CEI, the organization representing
Italian bishops, declined to comment.  Bagnasco has signaled he would be open to looking at the
issue. If there are points that need clarifying or reviewing,
then there are “no prejudgments from our part,” he told
reporters in the city of Genoa.  Ending Abuse  “The current norms are correct in that they recognize the
social value of activities carried out by many nonprofits, among
them church ones,” Bagnasco said. “It is also correct that if
there have been concrete cases in which a tax that should have
been paid wasn’t, the abuse is verified and end it.”  Monti has pushed through an austerity package that includes
an overhaul of the pension system, higher gasoline prices and
additional taxes on  luxury goods . The plan, which won final
approval by the Italian Parliament on Dec. 22, reinstates a tax
on homes abolished by the previous government, known as the ICI.  “The current government has one very clear assignment and
that is cleaning up the economic and financial mess,” Sophie
in’t Veld, a Dutch member of the European Parliament who chairs
the platform for Secularism in politics, said in a Dec. 22 phone
interview. “I would be surprised if they use their energy to
pick a fight with the Catholic Church at this moment in time.”  Lateran Treaty  Catholicism lost its status as a formal state religion in a
renegotiation of the Lateran Treaty in 1984. In exchange,
taxpayers were given a choice to send about 0.8 percent of their
income tax to religious affiliations or public coffers.  The Vatican, the world’s smallest state, swung to a profit
of 9.8 million euros in 2010 after three years of losses during
the global financial crisis. About 90 percent of the country’s
citizens describe themselves as Catholic, with a third of them
practicing, according to the  CIA World Factbook .  Properties based in the  Vatican City  are exempt from paying
Italian taxes as they are considered part of a separate
sovereign state under the original 1929 Lateran Treaty.  The Vatican pays tax on buildings that carry out commercial
activities included in the Italian land registry, said spokesman
Father Federico Lombardi in a Jan. 7 phone interview. Such
businesses include stores.  The church should look at what people are putting up with
economically and act accordingly, said Felice Belisario, a
senator for Italy of Values party.  “When such serious sacrifices are being asked of ordinary
people, you cannot have such unjustified exceptions,” Belisario
said on his blog. “Our position is clear, render to Caesar what
is Caesar’s and to God what is God’s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  