-- Titanic’s Owner Ismay Jumped Ship for Life With Coward’s Stigma
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-01-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/titanic-owner-ismay-jumped-ship-for-life-with-coward-s-stigma-book-review.html
Shortly after midnight on April 15,
1912, the owner of the RMS Titanic leaped into one of the last
lifeboats to be launched from the ship’s flooded deck. In saving
his skin while women and children drowned, he left his
reputation to sink with the stricken liner.  J. Bruce Ismay’s inglorious yet oddly enlightening story is
told by  Frances Wilson  in “ How to Survive the Titanic ,” a
quirkily persuasive meld of biography, reportage and literary
criticism which examines the disaster afresh through the prism
of his life.  Back on dry land, the 49-year-old Englishman became the
first victim of a press hate campaign, vilified as a coward and
blamed for the speed at which the ship hit history’s most famous
iceberg. “His was now a posthumous existence,” Wilson writes.  Ismay was the oldest surviving child of the self-made
creator of the White Star Line, one of the world’s most
profitable shipping companies in its heyday. Unfortunately,
Ismay Senior saw his son as a mother’s boy and resented him for
the very privileges his own success had provided.  The child grew up to be “dogmatic and dictatorial,” with
few social graces. Upon inheriting the company, his first act
was to sell it to J. Pierpont Morgan for $35 million, staying on
as managing director and chairman. He was planning his
retirement in 1912, and the Titanic’s maiden voyage was to have
been his last in a professional capacity.  The bald facts of that iconic vessel remain striking even
with the disaster’s centennial looming. Tall as an 11-story
building and constructed from 46,000 tons of steel, it was the
largest moving object on earth.  Turning His Back  While the other survivors watched the eerie spectacle of
the ship sinking in rapt horror, Ismay turned his back on the
 wreck . Later, when others told their stories to reporters, at
inquiries and in memoirs, he would say almost nothing. The press
described his terse utterances as a “luminous fog.”  Wilson musters two sources to help penetrate it. Thanks to
Ismay’s granddaughter, she gained access to a cache of hitherto
unknown love letters between Ismay and the glamorous American
Marian Thayer, a first-class passenger widowed in the disaster.  In these transatlantic missives, written after the ship
sank, Ismay comes across as whiny and self-absorbed, his
confidante’s own loss striking him only occasionally, as an
afterthought. Though he alludes tantalizingly to the things he
would say were Mrs. Thayer only there, he never elaborates.  More illuminating is a second source: Joseph Conrad’s novel
“ Lord Jim .” In the Titanic’s mailbags, coincidentally, was a
manuscript of a story that Conrad had agreed to sell to an
American collector,  John Quinn . “Karain: A Memory” was the
precursor to “Lord Jim,” whose plot Wilson sums up in a
sentence: “Jim jumps from a sinking ship and then faces a life
without honor.”  The novel was based on the 1880 case of the SS Jeddah,
which was carrying 950 pilgrims to Mecca when it sprang a leak.
Wrongly believing it would sink, its crew, including the British
chief mate who inspired Conrad’s protagonist, jumped ship. In
Wilson’s analysis, Jim emerges as Ismay’s fictional twin.  “When we see him through Conrad’s hooded eyes he has
something of the tragic hero,” she writes. “He was an ordinary
man caught in extraordinary circumstances, who behaved in a way
which only confirmed his ordinariness.”  This unorthodox approach meshes with the overall
strangeness of the Titanic’s story, one filled with bizarre
twists of fate and incongruous juxtapositions.  J.P. Morgan canceled his berth at the last minute because
of work pressures, for instance. At the U.K. inquiry,
“fashionably dressed dames” turned up to watch Ismay through
their opera glasses. Insurance claims listed a set of bagpipes,
a marmalade machine and a signed photograph of Garibaldi.  World in Flux  As she ruminates on fate, character and crisis
mismanagement, Wilson reminds us that the Titanic, though
overused as a metaphor, also serves as a punctuation point in
history. The iceberg struck as the world was in flux. It’s a
story, Wilson notes, that “buzzes with new technology.” In
particular, the wireless messaging system invented by Guglielmo
Marconi, which allowed ships to communicate with one another
without flares and flags, “had turned the solidity of the word
into a fluttering, flying, melting thing.”  Ultimately, her portrait -- empathetic rather than
sympathetic -- depicts Ismay as an Everyman troublingly suited
to our own uncertain times. As she puts it, “Ismay is that
figure we all fear we might be. He is one of us.”  “How to Survive the Titanic: Or, The Sinking of J. Bruce
Ismay” is published by Harper in the U.S. and Bloomsbury in the
U.K. (328 pages, $26.99, 18.99 pounds). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 