-- J&J Pushed Risperdal for Kids Without Approval, Memo Shows
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-01-17T21:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/j-j-unit-pushed-risperdal-for-kids-without-approval-jury-learns-from-memo.html
A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit marketed
its Risperdal drug in 2004 to doctors working with troubled
children even though regulators hadn’t approved the drug for
those patients, company records show.  Officials of J&J’s  Janssen  unit pushed salespeople in  Texas 
to “flood clinics with Risperdal stuff” as part of a 2004
campaign to increase prescriptions for the anti-psychotic drug
written for children and adolescents, according to an internal
memo put into evidence today in state court in Austin, Texas.
The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  didn’t approve Risperdal
for any pediatric use until 2006.  Texas officials contend New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
J&J, the world’s largest health-care products company, defrauded
the state Medicaid program by promoting Risperdal for uses not
approved by U.S. regulators, including for children with
psychiatric disorders. The state joined a lawsuit filed by a
whistle-blower,  Allen Jones , a former  Pennsylvania  health-care
fraud investigator.  Lawyers for Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott are asking
jurors to award the state at least $579 million from J&J and
Janssen in damages over the companies’ marketing program for the
anti-psychotic medicine.  Shane Scott, a former Janssen sales manager in Texas,
testified he got a memo from his superiors in the summer of 2004
calling for a push to market Risperdal to treat attention-
deficit syndrome in kids at the beginning of a new school year.  ‘ADD Meds’  The campaign’s goal was to position Risperdal to compete
with rival anti-psychotic drugs, such as  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s
Seroquel and  Eli Lilly & Co. ’s Zyprexa, Scott said.  “When kids are back in school, they are more likely to
take their ADD meds,” Scott testified during a videotaped
deposition that was played for jurors.  Salespeople who visited doctors in  San Antonio  and other
South Texas areas were so successful in marketing Risperdal in
2004 that Scott’s district later was ranked for a time as the
top seller out of the company’s 58 districts across the U.S.,
the manager testified. Scott said his superiors praised his
performance in connection with the Risperdal sales.  Bruce Perry , a psychiatrist at Northwestern University
Medical School who works with traumatized children, told jurors
today that young people “are more vulnerable” to the side
effects of anti-psychotic drugs.  Weight Gain  Those conditions include weight gain, drowsiness and
sometimes-severe withdrawal symptoms, said Perry, a former head
of psychiatry at the Texas Children’s Hospital in Houston. He
testified as an expert for the state.  Texas is the fourth state to take claims over J&J’s and
Janssen’s marketing of Risperdal to trial.  The states of Louisiana and  South Carolina  sued J&J partly
over marketing letters the company sent to doctors in those
states touting Risperdal as superior to rival drugs. Lawyers for
the state argued those statements were false.  J&J lost a $327 million judgment in South Carolina in June
after a jury found the drugmaker liable for damages. The company
also lost a Risperdal case in Louisiana, where on top of a
$257.7 million jury award, the judge ordered the company to pay
$73.3 million in attorneys’ fees and costs.  A Pennsylvania judge threw out the state’s case against J&J
and Janssen in June 2010.  J&J and the Janssen unit have also been sued over marketing
practices by  Alaska , Arkansas,  Louisiana , Montana,  New Mexico ,
Pennsylvania and  Utah . The Arkansas case is set for trial in
March.  The Texas case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288,
District Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  