-- Italian Ship Captain Ignored Order to Return
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-17T21:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/jailed-ship-captain-was-ordered-to-return-to-vessel-audio-recording-shows.html
The captain of a  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  ship
that ran aground off Italy ignored orders to return to the
vessel to lead rescue operations, according to recordings
released today. Divers discovered five more bodies on the cruise
liner today.  Captain Francesco Schettino was repeatedly ordered by a
Coast Guard official to get back on the cruise liner after
saying he had left the ship hours after running into a reef off
the island of Giglio, ripping a hole in the hull, according to
audio of telephone conversations posted on the  website  of
newspaper  Corriere della Sera . Schettino initially told the
official that only 40 people remained onboard at a time when
hundreds were still trying to get off the damaged ship.  “There are people climbing down a rope ladder on the bow
of the ship. Take a lifeboat and climb up that ladder and climb
up onto the ship and tell me how many people are there,” Coast
Guard Commander Gregorio Maria De Falco, speaking from the city
of Livorno on the Italian mainland, told Schettino, according to
the tape. “Tell me if there are women, children and people in
need there.”  When the captain hesitated to reply, De Falco said there
were fatalities and again ordered him to return. “You realize
it’s dark and we can’t see anything?” Schettino said, adding
that “other rescue workers” were now in place.  “You’ve been telling me that for an hour, now get back on
board!” the Coast Guard official shouted.  House Arrest  Schettino didn’t return and took a taxi on Giglio before
being arrested, media including Sky TG24 said.  Schettino, who may face charges of manslaughter and
abandoning the Costa Concordia when passengers were still on
board was granted house arrest today, by the judge hearing the
case after three hours of testimony in Grosseto,  Italy ,
Schettino’s lawyer Bruno Leporatti told journalists in remarks
broadcast on Sky TG24. Prosecutor Francesco Verusio had
requested that Schettino be held in jail as a flight risk,
rather than be permitted to return to his home in Sorrento,
Italy.  The captain is “shattered, dismayed, saddened for the loss
of lives and strongly disturbed,” Leporatti said in a statement
yesterday.  More Victims  Rescue workers discovered five more bodies on the ship
today, said Stefano Giannelli, a spokesman for the fire
department at the scene. The number of missing now stands at 23
after a German passenger was identified in  Germany , rescue
officials said today. Authorities today released a list of those
still unaccounted for.  Carnival shares fell 14 percent today to $29.60 at the close
in  New York , the biggest decline since the first day of trading
after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in 2001.  Schettino, who joined the company in 2002, was promoted to
captain in 2006 and never had a prior accident, according to
Pier Luigi Foschi, chairman of Carnival’s Italian unit, Costa
Crociere SpA.  The Costa Concordia was carrying more than 4,200 people
when it ran aground hours after leaving a port near  Rome  to
continue a Mediterranean cruise. The ship’s route was set
electronically before it left Rome, and shouldn’t have been so
close to the Giglio island, Foschi said at a press conference in
Genoa yesterday.  Route Programmed  “The route had been properly programmed in
Civitavecchia,” Foschi said. “The fact that the ship strayed
from that course can only be due to a maneuver that was not
approved, not authorized nor communicated to Costa Crociere by
the captain of the ship.”  Schettino may have steered the boat closer to Giglio to
give passengers a better view of the Tuscan island, Foschi said.  Foschi visited the island today and met with survivors,
crew members and rescue workers. He said he was touched by the
stories of people on the ship, but that the accident didn’t
reflect any safety issues with Costa ships.  “Our ships are safe just as they were on Friday,” he said
from Giglio, where the Concordia partially sunk after hitting
rocks. “It has nothing to do with security at sea nor does it
have anything to do with our policy, training or the quality of
our personnel.”  Climbing to Safety  The captain didn’t give the evacuation order until just
before the Costa Concordia began listing, making it impossible
to lower many of the lifeboats, passengers on the ship said.
Video released late yesterday of the rescue operation showed
hundreds of passengers clamoring along the side of the ship to
reach ladders that led down to water, where they were loaded
onto rescue boats.  Giglio, an island of 1,500 inhabitants in winter that
relies on fishing and tourism, is located about 14 miles from
the Tuscan coast. Giglio lies within the “Santuario dei
Cetacei,” an area of roughly 33,784 square kilometers that in
1999 was declared by the governments of France, Italy and Monaco
a sanctuary for marine mammals such as dolphins and whales.  Smit Salvage, a unit of Royal Boskalis Westminster NV,
contracted by Costa Crociere to remove the ship’s 2,400 tons of
oil, is ready to begin inspecting the vessel as soon as tomorrow.
The company will need two to four weeks to take the fuel off the
ship, executives said on a conference call today.  “The vessel is stable and we feel confident that removal
can be done in a fairly rapid way,” Kees van Essen, Smit’s
manager of operations, said during the call. There have been no
leaks so far and salvage operations don’t increase the chance of
leaks, he said.  Weather conditions in the area, which have been calm since
the accident, are forecast to deteriorate after Jan. 19.  Environment Minister Corrado Clini said today that the
pumping of the fuel won’t begin until the search rescue
operation is completed. Clini, who said this week he was
concerned about the threat of an environmental disaster, will
testify in parliament tomorrow at 4 p.m. on the salvage
operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  