-- Japanese Regulator May Lower Barriers to Alternative Trading
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-01-17T08:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/japanese-regulator-may-lower-barriers-to-alternative-trading.html
Japanese regulators may consider
rule changes to make it easier for alternative stock markets to
compete with a merged  Tokyo  Stock Exchange Group Inc. and  Osaka
Securities Exchange Co. (8697)   SBI Japannext, Chi-X  Japan  Ltd. and other new venues that
display prices handled 5 percent of the trades in Topix Index
stocks last year, the most since the platforms started in 2007,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Still, growth in Japan lagged
behind similar venues in Europe and Canada because of rules that
treat the platforms differently from traditional bourses,
according to Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Holdings Inc.  “Proprietary trading systems serve an important market
function,” Kosuke Yokoo, director for Collective Investment
Schemes at the  Financial Services Agency , Japan’s securities
regulator, in Tokyo. “We don’t currently have plans to change
the rules, but we’ll monitor the situation surrounding the PTS,
including looking at growth and the impact of the TSE-OSE merger
on the market.”  Japan’s Fair Trade Commission and the securities regulator
are reviewing a merger announced Nov. 22 between the 133-year-
old Tokyo Stock Exchange and its  Osaka  rival, the country’s two
largest bourses. Deals worth $37 billion have been proposed
between the world’s biggest exchanges in the last 15 months,
with most meeting resistance from regulators on grounds that
they stifle competition.  ‘Best Execution’  “The FSA are rightly thinking about liquidity from the
perspective of the end-investor,” said Jessica Morrison, head
of Asia Pacific market structure for Deutsche Bank in  Hong Kong .
“Making liquidity on alternate venues sufficiently accessible
to all market participants, in order to provide best execution,
is an important and worthwhile priority to pursue.”  Regulatory impediments are hampering growth on Japan’s
newer venues, Morrison said. For example, investors are required
to make a takeover bid if they acquire more than 5 percent of a
company through off-exchange transactions with more than 10
shareholders, she said. No such rule exists for shares bought on
the main bourses.  “If you wanted to put PTS on equal footing with the
exchanges, you’d have to get rid of the 5 percent rule,”
Sadakazu Osaki, head of research at Nomura Research Institute
Ltd. “It would be a good thing if the Financial Services Agency
supported an FTC judgment by encouraging the competitiveness of
the off-exchange platforms.”  Deutsche Boerse , NYSE  Deregulation of proprietary trading systems might be part
of deal that allows Japan’s Fair Trade Commission to approve a
merger between the Tokyo and Osaka bourses, Osaki said. Tokyo
Stock Exchange handles 89 percent of the trading volume on the
Topix index, while Osaka is the only Japanese venue for trading
 futures  on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  European Commission antitrust regulators will probably
block a merger of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse AG and NYSE
New York-based Euronext, two people familiar with the talks told
Bloomberg on Dec. 21. The takeover would put more than 90
percent of the European exchange-traded  derivatives market  and
about 30 percent of the region’s stock trading in the hands of
one company.  So-called proprietary trading systems accounted for 28
percent of  Europe ’s trades last month. After only 5 years in
business, Chi-X Europe Ltd. is on the verge of becoming the
region’s biggest bourse. The platform, now owned by Bats Global
Markets Inc., handled more shares than London Stock Exchange
Group Plc. in three of the last five months, according to the
Federation of European Securities Exchanges.  Chi-X Canada handles about 11 percent of the volume in the
country’s markets, the company said in a December  report .  “Japan has the liquidity and technological capability to
develop into a market as diversely competitive as the U.S. or
Europe,” Morrison said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  