-- Kazakh Protesters Rally in Almaty After Parliamentary Elections
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-01-17T13:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/kazakh-protesters-rally-in-almaty-after-parliamentary-elections.html
Kazakh opposition groups protested
in central Almaty, the country’s commercial capital, after the
only anti-government party failed to win enough votes to secure
parliament seats.  “We won’t play by the rules set by the authorities any
more and will talk to them differently now,” Zharmakhan Tuyakbay, chairman of the National Social Democratic Party, or
OSDP, said at the rally today.  The ruling Nur Otan party garnered 80.99 percent of the
vote in Jan. 15 elections, getting 83 seats in the 107-seat
Majlis, or lower house of parliament, the Central Electoral
Commission said on its  website  today after 100 percent of votes
were counted. The pro-business Akzhol party and the Communists
scored above the 7 percent entry barrier to win 8 seats and 7
seats, respectively.  The Peoples’ Assembly comprising Kazakhstan’s ethnic
minorities will elect the remaining nine parliament deputies.
The OSDP received 1.68 percent, or 116,534 votes, the commission
said. Turnout was 75.4 percent.  President  Nursultan Nazarbayev , 71, who has ruled the
Central Asian state since 1989 in the Soviet era, is seeking to
staunch discontent and promote a multiparty system in a nation
shaken by mass riots and clashes with the police. Riots broke
out last month in an oil-rich region bordering the  Caspian Sea 
in western  Kazakhstan , killing 16 people and leaving more than
100 injured in the worst violence since the former Soviet
republic won independence two decades ago.  Government Crackdown  About 100 people protested for less than an hour on a
square in downtown Almaty. Organizers of the demonstration asked
some supporters to skip the rally for fear of a government
crackdown, said Bulat Abilov, an OSDP leader.  Young Kazakhs who studied abroad are frustrated by the lack
of their ability to change the current “corrupted” political
system, said Rauan, 25, a protester who declined to give his
full name.  “Young people are fearful of coming out on the streets and
only write comments” via the Internet, he said, adding that he
graduated from a U.K. university with the help of a Kazakh
government grant.  The vote didn’t “meet fundamental principles of democratic
elections,” international monitors said yesterday. Observers
from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in  Europe 
noted restrictions placed on political parties and the media,
lack of transparency in the counting process and limited public
debate, the watchdog’s Office for Democratic Institutions and
Human Rights said.  No election in Kazakhstan has ever been deemed “free and
fair” by the OSCE. Nur Otan won all the seats in Kazakhstan’s
legislature in an August 2007 vote. The election law was changed
two years later to ensure that if only one party passes the 7
percent threshold, the party with the second-highest number of
votes gets no less than two seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  