-- Korean Won Gains, Bonds Fall as Bank of Korea Chief Signals No Rate Cut
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-01-17T06:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/korean-won-strengthens-as-france-s-borrowing-costs-decline-bonds-steady.html
South  Korea ’s won advanced and
 government bonds  snapped a five-day rally as the central bank
said that local borrowing costs are still below policy makers’
desired level.  There still exists “a little excess liquidity” and
interest rates are still “accommodative,” Governor Kim Choong
Soo said in an interview today. The won rose to its strongest
level in two weeks and the  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index of shares climbed 1.8
percent as exchange data showed overseas investors bought more
Korean shares than they sold for a sixth straight day.  “The governor’s comments confirmed the central bank’s
stance to normalize rates and, combined with the Kospi gains
today, seems to be contributing to bond-price declines,” said
 Peter Park , a Seoul-based fixed-income strategist at Woori
Investment & Securities Co.  The won strengthened 0.8 percent to 1,145.40 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was its
strongest level since Jan. 4.  The Bank of Korea held off from raising its benchmark
seven-day repurchase rate at 3.25 percent for a seventh straight
month on Jan. 13, citing “very slow” growth in the global
economy.  China’s gross domestic product rose 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the least in 10 quarters,
statistics bureau data showed today. Asia’s biggest economy is
also South Korea’s biggest export market.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.5 percent bonds due September
2016 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.50
percent, according to Korea Exchange Inc. Three-year bond
futures fell 0.1 percent to 104.45, exchange data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  