-- Kraft to Cut 1,600 Jobs Ahead of Split
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-01-17T21:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/kraft-foods-to-cut-1-600-jobs-ahead-of-plan-to-split-in-two.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , the food company
planning to split in two this year, said it would eliminate
1,600 jobs and reported preliminary profit for 2011 that trailed
some analysts’ estimates.  The job cuts will take place in  North America  through this
year and about 40 percent are a result of reorganizing U.S.
sales, the Northfield, Illinois-based company said today in a
statement. About 40 percent of the cuts will come from corporate
staff and 20 percent are vacancies that will remain unfilled,
the company said.  The reductions move Kraft, the world’s second-largest food
manufacturer, a step closer toward splitting the company into
its snack foods business and the grocery business. Kraft has
been working to make the future companies leaner as it moves
toward the separation, which is scheduled to happen this year.  “When we announced our decision to create two world-class
companies last August, we said both would be leaner, more
competitive organizations,” Chief Executive Officer Irene Rosenfeld, who will lead the snacks company after the spinoff,
said in the statement. “For the past year, the North American
team has been working to streamline operations.”  Kraft is splitting up to help the snacks business push
products into  emerging markets  and make additional acquisitions
while the slower-growing, higher-margin grocery business expands
in the U.S. and returns cash to shareholders.  Grocery Spinoff  The spinoff will leave a global snacks and candy business
with $31 billion in revenue from brands including Cadbury
chocolate and Oreo cookies, Kraft said in August.  The grocery company may have about $17 billion in revenue.
Tony Vernon, 55, currently president of the North American foods
division, will be CEO of the grocery business, Kraft said in
December.  Full-year operating income probably rose to at least $2.28
a share, Kraft said in a separate statement. That trailed the
$2.29 estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company previously said it would earn $2.27 a share,
excluding a 1-cent per share loss because of foreign-currency
fluctuations. The preliminary result includes the currency
charge, meaning it tops the company’s projection by about 2
cents a share, Mike Mitchell, a Kraft spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  Kraft rose 1 percent to close at $38.13 in  New York . The
 shares  climbed 19 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  