-- MTN Sudan Will Boost Revenue, Subscribers This Year, Chief Executive Says
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-01-17T12:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/mtn-sudan-will-boost-revenue-subscribers-this-year-chief-executive-says.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ’s Sudanese unit, the
North African nation’s second-largest mobile-phone company, said
it’s targeting a 50 percent increase in subscribers this year as
it seeks to boost revenue to help offset a new government tax.  MTN  Sudan  expects to raise its market share to 35 percent
by the end of 2012 from 27 percent last year, Chief Executive
Officer Muhammad Ziaullah Siddiqui said in an interview in
Khartoum on Jan. 13. The company estimates it will have 9
million subscribers by Dec. 31 and revenue of $5.7 million,
compared with $4.4 million in September 2011, he said.  “Sudan is a fast-growing market and we look forward to
further strengthening our position” by introducing new
technologies, Siddiqui said.  Sudan’s mobile-phone market has grown from 25,000
subscribers at the end of 2000 to 21.6 million people registered
with MTN Sudan, Kuwait-based  Zain (ZAIN) ’s unit Zain Sudan, the
country’s biggest operator, and state-owned  Sudan Telecom Co. (SUDATEL) ,
according to TeleGeography, the Washington-based research group.
Mobile-phone penetration in the country was about 50 percent in
mid-2011, leaving “plenty of room for growth,” TeleGeography
said in a report last month.  Under Sudan’s 2012 budget, the country will increase sales
and services taxes for telecommunications companies to 30
percent from 20 percent, while a tax on profit will be raised to
30 percent from 15 percent, to compensate for the revenue the
government lost when oil-rich South Sudan declared independence
in July.  “The new tax rise will definitely reduce revenue for us
and reduce services available for customers, but I think we can
still absorb it,” Siddiqui said.  Secession  After  South Sudan ’s secession following a peace agreement
in 2005 that ended a two-decade war between the north and south,
MTN Sudan had to reconfigure its Sudanese network in the south
to be a separate operating entity. Since December, the
operations of the telecommunication company in the new country
are housed under MTN South Sudan. Before independence,
southerners accounted for 20 percent of subscribers.  “The secession hasn’t affected us significantly, because
the number of subscribers in the north has been growing non-
stop,” Siddiqui said.  MTN Sudan has 200 mobile-phone base stations across Sudan,
as well as 32 service centers, two of which are in the western
region of Darfur.  MTN Group, based in Johannesburg, is  Africa ’s biggest
mobile-phone company, with  operations in 23 countries  in Africa,
 Asia  and the  Middle East . As of 30 June, MTN had 152.3 million
subscribers worldwide, according to its website.  There are no immediate plans by MTN Sudan to trade its
shares on the Khartoum Stock Exchange as the company has no need
to raise funds domestically, Siddiqui said.  MTN shares rose 0.9 percent to 134.22 rand at 1:58 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The stock has dropped 6.7 percent so far this
year, underperforming a 4.5 percent increase in the benchmark
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 