-- New Fukushima Investigation Promises to Dig Deeper Into Nuclear Crisis
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-01-17T05:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/new-fukushima-probe-leader-vows-to-dig-deeper-into-japan-nuclear-disaster.html
The head of Japan’s latest
investigation into the Fukushima nuclear disaster promised to
dig deeper than previous inquiries into the events that unfolded
after an earthquake and tsunami struck the country in March.  A separate government investigation concluded last month
that the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant withstood the shaking of a
magnitude-9 quake on March 11, before succumbing to the tsunami
that followed, endorsing findings by  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) 
Three reactors had meltdowns after cooling and backup power was
knocked out at the plant in the worst nuclear catastrophe since
Chernobyl in 1986.  “The most important question the panel needs to answer is
how much damage was caused by the earthquake, rather than the
tsunami,” Tetsuo Ito, the head the Atomic Energy Research
Institute at Kinki University in western Japan, said by phone
yesterday. “If the panel finds evidence the quake damaged
critical functions, all of Japan’s atomic stations will need to
be reviewed.”  The latest investigation panel appointed by Japan’s
parliament with subpoena powers may publicly question officials
including former Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , said Kiyoshi
Kurokawa, chairman of the new probe, in a briefing with
reporters after the inquiry’s first open meeting in  Tokyo .
Kurokawa, a professor emeritus at Tokyo University, said he will
present his findings by June.  Reactor Meltdowns  The report released on Dec. 26 by a committee headed by
engineering professor Yotaro Hatamura, agreed with Tokyo
Electric’s findings that cooling and backup power were
incapacitated by the tsunami rather than the earthquake.
Hatamura criticized Japan’s Nuclear Industrial and Safety Agency
in his interim report, yet fell short of assigning blame to
individuals.  About 160,000 people were forced to flee radiation and
areas around the plant may be uninhabitable for decades, the
government has said.  Kurokawa’s inquiry may also throw light on other issues
left alone by Hatamura, including whether Tepco asked the
government for permission to abandon the plant north of Tokyo at
the height of the disaster.  The panel yesterday revealed a flaw in response to the
Fukushima disaster by the government, when they were questioning
officials who were summoned to the meeting.  Slow SPEEDI  Itaru Watanabe, an official at the Ministry of Education,
Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, said data produced by
the system for projecting the spread of radiation, called
SPEEDI, was provided to the U.S. before the Japanese public.  The data was disclosed to get the assistance of the U.S
military for the relief effort on March 14, Watanabe said. The
Nuclear Safety Commission of  Japan  first released results of the
SPEEDI projections on March 23, according to the ministry’s
presentation materials. The data release for the public “was
delayed while it was being considered at the government’s
disaster response headquarters,” Watanabe told the panel.  The ministry officials then started explaining differences
in definitions of words, saying the ministry didn’t “release”
the data to the U.S. but “communicated” on the matter with the
U.S.  “I want you to stop these word games” as bureaucratic
definitions don’t matter to the public, Shuya Nomura, a lawyer
and a professor at Chuo University Law School, told the
officials.  The 10 member-committee will have the next public meeting
on Jan. 30, which may produce further confrontations with
government and Tepco officials. The Hatamura committee hearings
were closed to the public to encourage open discourse, Hatamura
said yesterday.  Insult to Science  The parliamentary panel also includes some of the most
vocal critics of the government and  Tokyo Electric  before and
after the March 11 accident. They include seismologist Katsuhiko Ishibashi, who in 2007 warned of a catastrophic disaster at a
nuclear plant to that which unfolded at Fukushima, and Mitsuhiko
Tanaka, a former atomic equipment engineer and now an anti-
nuclear activist.  Ishibashi yesterday clashed with Tokyo Electric Executive
Vice President Masao Yamazaki, who told the panel the utility
didn’t inform the public it had predicted before March 11 a
tsunami may swamp the plant because the projection wasn’t based
on scientific evidence.  “That’s an insult to science,” Ishibashi told Yamazaki.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  