-- New York City Commercial-Property Sales to Rise in ’12, Massey Knakal Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-01-17T18:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/new-york-city-commercial-property-sales-to-rise-in-12-massey-knakal-says.html
Sales of commercial properties in
 New York City  are likely to be “way up” this year from 2011’s
$25.6 billion, as the market rebounds from the financial crisis,
executives from Massey Knakal Realty Services said.  The brokerage, which specializes in New York-area
investment transactions, projected a 60 percent to 75 percent
increase in sales  volume  to $41 billion to $45 billion. The
seven-year average is $30 billion, the Manhattan-based firm said
in a report released today.  “We expect volume to be way up in 2012” because of a
“regression to long-term trends” and a potential increase in
capital-gains taxes next year, Chairman Robert Knakal said at a
briefing.  Developers anticipating better times ahead have been
driving up values of construction sites, looking beyond such
potential obstacles as an interest-rate increase and reduced
lending stemming from  Europe ’s debt crisis, said Paul Massey,
the firm’s chief executive officer. Sales slowed in the second
half as bidders failed to match seller expectations after
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating and the
threat of default by  Greece  and other European nations grew.  Deals in the fourth quarter totaled $6 billion, down from
$7.1 billion in the previous three months and $8.5 billion in
the second quarter, the highest quarterly total since 2008,
Knakal said.  The firm is advising clients to consider selling to avoid
possibly higher capital-gains taxes in 2013, Knakal said. With
President  Barack Obama , who favors increasing the levies,
leading in polls, sellers may want to act quickly because it
takes several months to market a property and complete a deal,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  