-- New York Fracking Advocates Say Local Bans Are ‘Kiss of Death’
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-01-17T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/new-york-fracking-advocates-say-local-bans-are-kiss-of-death-.html
New York (STONY1)  would lose any chance of
reaping the economic benefits of the shale-gas boom if local
governments are allowed to ban drilling through zoning laws,
advocates say.  The state sits on the northern edge of the Marcellus Shale,
which may hold enough natural gas to supply the U.S. for two
decades, according to Terry Engelder, a geosciences professor at
 Pennsylvania  State University. In 2010, New York placed a
moratorium on the drilling process known as hydraulic fracturing
so state regulators can develop rules. Lawmakers are considering
a bill that would allow municipalities  to ban  the practice, a
right several say they already have.  “Giving local governments the power to regulate would be
the kiss of death for natural-gas development in New York
state,”  Tom West , an attorney in Albany who represents Denver-
based  Anschutz Exploration Corp.  and other drilling companies,
said in a telephone interview.  U.S. states from  Wyoming (STOWY1)  to  West Virginia (STOWV1)  that sit atop
shale formations are cashing in on so-called fracking even as
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency studies the effects on
drinking water with an eye on possible nationwide regulations.
In  Ohio (STOOH1) , earthquakes that rattled the Youngstown area last year
are under review by state officials to see if there’s a link to
fracking, which forces millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand underground to free trapped gas.  ‘Unprecedented’ Response  In  Pennsylvania (STOPA1) ,  Ohio  and  West Virginia , drillers dipping
into Marcellus Shale contributed to a boost in fracking that
helped increase supplies and cut prices 32 percent last year. A
public comment period on draft regulations New York released in
July ended Jan. 11 with the state receiving an unprecedented
“tens of thousands” of responses,  Joe Martens , commissioner of
the Department of Environmental Conservation, said in a
 statement .  “If high-volume hydraulic fracturing moves forward in New
York, it will move forward with the strictest standards in the
nation,” Martens said.  Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a 54-year-old Democrat, said Jan. 4
he would wait for state regulators to finish the guidelines
before making a decision on how to proceed.  New York’s proposed drilling rules have been criticized by
both industry groups and environmentalists. The draft rules
would ban fracking within 4,000 feet (1,219 meters) of
unfiltered watersheds that provide drinking water for  New York
City  and Syracuse. New York City receives 1.3 billion gallons
(4.9 billion liters) a day through a network of gravity-fed
aqueducts from 19 reservoirs as far away as 125 miles, according
to the New York City Department of Environmental Protection.  Local Bans Challenged  New York, the third-most-populous state, may become the
only one that allows municipalities to ban fracking, West said.
So far, 20 towns have done so, said Karen Edelstein, a
geographic information-systems consultant in Ithaca. Anschutz
has challenged a ban in Dryden, while Cooperstown Holstein
Corp., a dairy farm, in September sued to overturn a similar
restriction in Middlefield.  In West Virignia, the Circuit Court of Monongalia County,
in August overturned a Morgantown ordinance that prohibited
fracking. In her decision, Judge Susan B. Tucker said the state
has “exclusive control” over oil and gas development.  The local effort was overturned because Morgantown failed
to establish that fracking threatened the community’s right to
clean air and water, said Ben Price, projects director for the
 Community Environmental Legal Defense Fund , a Mercersburg,
Pennsylvania-based public-service law firm helping towns draft
fracking restrictions.  Warning From Doctors  In December, the EPA linked fracking to groundwater
contamination in  Wyoming . Doctors at a conference on fracking in
Arlington,  Virginia , this month said the U.S. should declare a
moratorium on the drilling until the health effects are better
understood.  Six towns in Pennsylvania, one in New York and one in
 Maryland  have adopted the community-rights-based ordinances
developed by Price’s group. None have been challenged, he said.  In Pennsylvania, municipalities can’t exclude an industry
through zoning, Price said. They do have the authority to limit
drilling to a specific area, though a bill being debated in the
Legislature would strip them of that power.  “Industry wants one-stop shopping,” Price said.  That’s what drilling companies find in Ohio, where state
law is clear in its pre-emption of local ordinances, said West,
the attorney in  Albany , New York’s capital.  “No operator in their right mind will invest the hundreds
of millions of dollars required to amass lease rights if they’re
at the mercy of a town board vote,” West said.  Home Rule  New York, like most states, regulates oil and gas
development, according to  Eric Waeckerlin , an environment and
energy attorney with  Kelley Drye & Warren LLP  in  Washington . The
state also recognizes municipal home rule, which allows towns to
adopt laws to protect their “physical and visual environment”
and the “safety, health, and well-being” of residents.  Most local bans would exclude heavy industry such as gas
drilling through local zoning laws, Waeckerlin said. The courts
may view such blanket prohibitions by towns as a usurpation of
the state’s authority, he said.  State Senator James Seward introduced a bill last year that
would ensure  New York  towns can continue to ban fracking
regardless of court decisions. The Senate chose not to vote on
drilling-related bills until state regulators finish writing the
fracking rules, Seward, a Republican representing a swath of
Central New York that includes Dryden, said in a telephone
interview.  The New York Assembly passed a companion bill, and
Seward said he plans to renew the fight in the Senate this year.  “My intent is not to kill the industry,” Seward said.
“Texas allows towns to have different setbacks, which means
uneven regulation in a big drilling state. It’s inconsistent to
say by allowing home rule here, we’re going to scare off the
industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  