-- News Corp. U.K. Newspaper Unit Ceases Use of Private Eyes After Hacking
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-01-17T14:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/news-corp-u-k-unit-stops-use-of-private-eyes-after-phone-hacking-scandal.html
News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit
has stopped using private detectives in the aftermath of the
phone-hacking scandal,  Tom Mockridge , News International’s chief
executive officer, told a media inquiry.  Reporters must get permission to use investigators and he
hasn’t approved any requests, Mockridge told the judge-led
 inquiry  into press ethics today. The company has come under fire
after employees hired a detective to hack into mobile phones for
stories.  Mockridge’s predecessor, Rebekah Brooks, was arrested in
July as part of a police probe into hacking. Mockridge joined
News International from News Corp.’s Sky Italia and he’s been
tasked with overseeing changes that will prevent a repeat of the
scandal, which led to the closure of the group’s most successful
tabloid, the News of the World.  “It might be over-ambitious to say culture has changed
entirely in six months, but I think there’s a change in
structure and governance,” the 56-year-old Mockridge said.  The company’s Management and Standards Committeee was
initially prevented from conducting its own internal probe into
hacking at News International papers, Mockridge said in his
 written testimony  to the inquiry. The Metropolitain Police
Service, which had said an internal inquisition might prejudice
the police investigation, relented just before he submitted the
document dated Oct. 14 and released publicly today.  Hacking Evidence  The committee, formed in July, had initially said that its
primary purpose would be to assist in external investigations by
police and politicians into News International. The internal
probe is being led by law firm Linklaters LLP and is looking for
evidence of hacking at the Sun, the Times and the Sunday Times.
Two people close to the investigation said in October that the
team is interviewing employees for signs they might have hacked
into voice mails or e-mails or hired private detectives
improperly.  Rupert Murdoch , CEO of the parent company  News Corp. (NWSA) , often
checks in with Mockridge several times a week to discuss
advertising rates, top stories in Britain and the Leveson
inquiry, Mockridge said. The News International board also has
monthly meetings on compliance policy, he said.  Judge Brian Leveson is overseeing the inquiry, called for
in July by Prime Minister  David Cameron . It is separate from
dozens of civil lawsuits filed by phone-hacking victims and
three police investigations that have yielded more than 20
arrests in the last year.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  