-- Nigeria’s Naira Weakens Against the Dollar After General Strike
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-17T10:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/nigeria-s-naira-weakens-against-the-dollar-after-general-strike.html
Nigeria ’s naira fell against the
dollar as businesses and banks resumed operations after labor
unions suspended a general strike yesterday.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer weakened 0.4
percent to 162.63 per dollar on the  interbank market  as of 10:32
a.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Earlier it fell to 163.15 per dollar, the
lowest since Dec. 30.  The West African nation’s labor unions suspended strikes
and protests yesterday after President Goodluck Jonathan limited
gasoline-price increases to 97 naira ($0.60) a liter (0.3
gallon). The strike, which shut banks, businesses and ports,
began Jan. 9 after the government scrapped subsidies, which it
said cost 1.2 trillion naira last year, and vowed to spend the
savings on  power plants  and roads. Gasoline prices had more than
doubled from 65 naira a liter.  “With the market being closed over the past few days, we
do expect demand for foreign exchange to rise sharply as
corporates and banking activities resume,” Ridle Markus, an
Africa strategist at Barclays Plc-owned Absa Capital in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed reply to questions today.
“Demand at tomorrow’s auction may be much higher than usual,
which could put depreciation pressure on the naira against the
 U.S. dollar .”  Interest Rates   Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi said it may
be “counter productive” to raise interest rates in response to
a jump in fuel prices that will probably push up inflation.  “We will have to see where the balance of the data points
to, but from where I sit it looks like holding for a bit is the
best option,” Sanusi said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. The committee will meet Jan. 30-31, according to
Sanusi, who said he isn’t speaking on behalf of the Abuja-based
bank’s Monetary Policy Committee.  The central bank left the benchmark  lending rate  unchanged
at a record-high 12 percent when it last met on Nov. 21. It
increased the rate 2.75 percentage points in October after
 inflation  climbed above the bank’s 10 percent target.  Ghana ’s cedi retreated 0.4 percent to 1.7245 per dollar, as
of 9:30 a.m. in Accra, the capital, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since at least 1994, when
Bloomberg began tracking the currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  