-- Nomura’s Ashley to Head Fixed Income as Lehman Bankers Quit
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-01-18T06:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/nomura-said-to-name-steven-ashley-as-global-head-of-fixed-income.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  named Steven Ashley as global head of  fixed income  following the resignations
of two top bankers who joined when Japan’s biggest brokerage
bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. operations in 2008.  Georges Assi was appointed as Ashley’s deputy, Chief
Operating Officer Takumi Shibata told employees yesterday in an
internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News. Ashley will be based
in  London  and both appointments are effective immediately,
Shibata said in the letter. Keiko Sugai, Nomura’s Tokyo-based
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Nomura, whose overseas operations posted their biggest loss
in six quarters for the three months ended September, is
trimming $1.2 billion in costs to revamp businesses that have
stumbled since it acquired Lehman operations in  Europe  and  Asia .
 Jesse Bhattal , the company’s wholesale banking chief, and Tarun Jotwani, head of global markets, agreed to step down last week
amid the brokerage’s efforts to avert a downgrade by Moody’s
Investors Service.  “We are closely watching to see how much capital Nomura
will allocate to the fixed-income business,” said  Masao Muraki ,
a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “These are the
operations that are most subject to global regulations and
competitors are trimming their capital allocation.”  Ashley is taking on some responsibilities that were held by
Jotwani, 51, as the brokerage splits the global markets unit
into fixed-income and equity businesses.  Ex-Lehman Bankers  Jotwani, who was based in London, agreed to step down and
will leave Nomura, a person with knowledge of the matter said
last week. He and Bhattal, the first foreign member of the
bank’s 14-member executive  management committee , were among
8,000 Lehman employees who joined Nomura.  Ashley, who was global head of macro products, joined
Nomura as global head of rates in the fixed-income division in
May 2010 following six years with  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  in London. Assi, who was previously responsible for Nomura’s
 fixed-income division  in Europe, the Middle East and  Africa ,
joined the Japanese bank from Lehman in 2008.  Shares of Nomura  rose 2.4 percent to 256 yen at the close
of trading in Tokyo today. The stock has dropped 52 percent over
the past year, and had slumped to 224 yen, the lowest in at
least 37 years, on Nov. 24.  Bhattal’s wholesale banking division is bearing the brunt
of a $1.2 billion cost-reduction plan after Nomura’s overseas
operations posted their  biggest loss  in six quarters. Shibata
has taken on the 55-year-old banker’s responsibilities on a
temporary basis.  Credit Rating  Downgrade  Nomura ranked 10th in arranging equity offerings worldwide
last year, down from No. 8 in 2009, the first full year after it
bought the Lehman operations, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The firm was 12th in mergers advisory, rising one
spot from two years earlier, the data show.  Moody’s said in November that it may cut Nomura’s credit
rating from Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade. The review
will consider the firm’s cost-reduction plans as well as its
“failure to generate synergies and returns from the Lehman
acquisition,” the rating company had said on Nov. 9.  “The fixed-income unit is a business that requires the
credit rating to be competitive,” Deutsche Bank’s Muraki said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  