-- Notre Dame Gets Top Quarterback Prospect Gunner Kiel After He Drops LSU
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-17T20:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/notre-dame-gets-top-quarterback-prospect-gunner-kiel-after-he-drops-lsu.html
Gunner Kiel, regarded by some
recruiting analysts as the top high school quarterback in the
nation, has enrolled at the  University of Notre Dame  after
previously committing to play football at  Louisiana State
University .  Kiel graduated early from Columbus East High School in
Columbus,  Indiana , last month and is among the early-enrollee
freshmen to join the Notre Dame football team, the  South Bend ,
Indiana-based school said in a  statement .  The 6-foot-4, 215-pound Kiel was voted the Indiana player
of the year after passing for 2,517 yards and 28 touchdowns in
leading his school to the state semifinals. He originally said
he was going to  Indiana University  and on Dec. 27 gave a non-
binding verbal commitment to LSU, which last week lost to
Alabama 21-0 in the national championship game.  “This recruitment process was a roller-coaster ride at
times, but I know I have made the right decision for my family
and me,” Kiel said in  Notre Dame ’s statement.  Kiel, who passed for 7,175 yards during his high school
career, said Notre Dame satisfied the three elements he was
looking for in a school: quality of education, distance from
home and comfort level with players and coaches in the football
program. Kiel is rated the No. 1 quarterback prospect in the
U.S. by  Scout.com  and  MaxPreps , with the latter listing him as
the second-best high school prospect overall.  College football’s national signing day is Feb. 1, at which
time students can make an official written commitment to a
college under National Collegiate Athletic Association rules.  Notre Dame, which ranks third in college football history
with 853 wins, has had consecutive 8-5 seasons in its first two
years with coach  Brian Kelly . Notre Dame’s 2012 recruiting class
is ranked  eighth  nationally by Scout.com.  “Coach Kelly was great throughout my recruitment, as many
times our conversations had nothing do with football,” Kiel
said. “That really showed me he had my best intentions in mind.
I’m excited about the future of the program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  