-- Obama Convention Speech Moved to BofA Stadium
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-01-17T16:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/obama-will-give-acceptance-speech-in-74-000-seat-bank-of-america-stadium.html
President Barack Obama will deliver
his party’s acceptance speech at  Bank of America  Stadium in
Charlotte,   North Carolina , moving venues for the final night of
the Democratic National Convention, the party announced.  “President Obama will take the stage in the Bank of
America Stadium, home of the Carolina Panthers, to accept the
nomination of the  Democratic Party  as president with tens of
thousands more people by his side,” Steve Kerrigan, the chief
executive officer of the party’s convention committee, said in
an e-mail today to supporters.  Democrats also are trimming the convention program from
four days to three “to make room for a day to organize and
celebrate the Carolinas,  Virginia  and the South,” he said. The
rest of the convention, now scheduled to begin Sept. 4, will be
conducted at the Time Warner Cable Arena.  The almost 74,000-seat home of the Panthers, Charlotte’s
professional football team, would make more skyboxes available
for wealthy donors, as the committee strives to meet its $36.6
million fundraising goal.  The Obama administration has had a mixed relationship with
Charlotte-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   In May 2010,  Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser to Obama,
praised Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan for having a
“level of corporate responsibility beyond the bank.”  Last October, Obama criticized a planned $5 dollar monthly
fee that Bank of America was going to charge its debit card
users. He said that while banks have a right to set fees, he
questioned the bank’s explanation for the new charge.  “People have been using financial regulation as an excuse
to charge consumers more,” Obama said at a White House news
conference on Oct. 6. Following complaints from consumers, the
bank shelved its plans to impose the fee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  