-- Obama’s Export Reshuffle Will Help Boost Jobs and Growth: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-17T00:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/obama-s-reshuffle-of-trade-agencies-will-help-boost-jobs-and-growth-view.html
Two years ago, President  Barack Obama  set an ambitious goal of doubling U.S. exports in five
years. In dollar terms, that meant increasing overseas sales to
$3 trillion by the end of 2014, from $1.5 trillion in 2009.  He has a ways to go. Export figures for 2011 aren’t yet
available, but the U.S. probably just passed the $2 trillion
mark (through November, exports amounted to $1.9 trillion).  Getting the rest of the way depends on solid global
economic growth. It will also require taking a wrecking ball to
an unwieldy bureaucracy, as the president proposed last week. He
would reorganize six trade-related agencies into a single trade
department. The plan would combine the  Commerce Department  with
the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, the Export-Import
Bank, the Overseas Private Investment Corp., the Trade and
Development Agency and the  Small Business Administration . Obama
hopes to reduce the federal workforce by as many as 2,000 jobs
and save taxpayers $3 billion over 10 years.  If Congress goes along, an existing  morass  of trade-related
bureaucracies, which for decades have impeded businesses of all
stripes and sizes, would finally become a one-stop export
supermarket. It would negotiate trade deals with other
countries, formulate and carry out U.S. export policy, promote
American goods and services abroad and enforce the rules of fair
trade.  Red Tape  It would also cut a lot of red tape for U.S. companies.
Imagine you are a maker of accessories for Apple Inc.’s iPad and
need help finding new markets overseas. You would have to make
the trip to the Commerce Department’s Foreign Commercial Service
for help in finding potential customers. If you located them but
needed government financing to make the sale, you would need to
file an application with the independent Export-Import Bank. If
you ran into an unfair trade barrier blocking your sale, then
you would need the help of either Commerce’s market-access
division or the U.S. trade representative. If your complaint
involved unfair competition from low-cost imports, however, that
would go to either Commerce or the U.S. International Trade
Commission. How frustrating is that?  Some of the more vocal opposition to the agency shuffle
will come from alumni (and privately, existing employees) of the
U.S. trade representative’s office. Obama would retain the trade
rep’s Cabinet status but otherwise end the agency’s
independence. Trade-rep officials will argue that this is bad
because they play a mostly diplomatic role in negotiating
market-opening treaties and multilateral agreements, while
Commerce is an unapologetic promoter of U.S. industry. The two
are oil-and-water, the argument goes.  Don’t be fooled: This is a complaint about status and turf,
not substance. It’s also a canard: The U.S. State Department
combines diplomacy and full-throated American advocacy under one
roof -- and manages to balance the two quite well.  Obama, who can’t make this change on his own, is seeking
so-called fast-track authority to propose federal-agency mergers
like this; Congress would vote up or down within 90 days,
without any fine-tuning. It’s unclear whether Congress will get
in line, given that lawmakers in both parties are also jealous
of their turf and often reluctant to give up the power that
comes with overseeing federal agencies.  Lawmakers may also balk at denying themselves the
prerogative to oversee and shape the executive branch and giving
the White House such far-reaching authority. The president may
be seeking these powers in an election year because it shows him
in a positive, bureaucracy-trimming light.  Assuming Congress wishes to play a role in any
reorganization, it should invite the president to send up his
plan without the take-it-or-leave-it fast-track authority -- and
still act within 90 days to help enhance trade, create jobs and
expand the economy. Exports account for 12.5 percent of the  U.S.
economy  and support 9.2 million, or 7 percent, of all American
jobs. Good, but not good enough.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 