-- Obama Jobs Panel Urges Broadened Tax Base, More Oil Drilling
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-01-17T19:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/obama-jobs-panel-urges-broadened-tax-base-more-oil-drilling.html
The U.S. must broaden its tax base
and lower rates, extract more coal, oil and natural gas, and
boost government research and development to revive the economy
and stay competitive, according to recommendations of President
Barack Obama’s jobs council.  “Our competitiveness has eroded over the past decades,”
 Jeffrey Immelt , chairman and chief executive officer of  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and head of the jobs panel, said in a report being
released today. “We have lost ground in metrics ranging from
education to infrastructure to export.”  The  President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness 
presented its 72-page report today prescribing how the U.S. can
recover its global economic edge.  “The economic recovery has to be driven by the private
sector,” Obama said at the White House session. Obama, who met
with the group for about 90 minutes, said there already has been
“substantial progress” on the panel’s recommendations.  The president said his administration has taken action on
33 of the 35 items that don’t need legislative approval and
completed action on 16. Those include putting more emphasis on
companies that return jobs to the U.S., streamlining the
government permit process and, last week, proposing to
consolidate the agencies dealing with trade and commerce.  Congress Returns  The  House of Representatives  returns to work today after a
three-week holiday break and the Senate comes back next week.
Congress during this election year will consider extension of a
payroll tax cut through the end of 2012. The council’s
recommendations that require congressional action probably will
wait until 2013 at the earliest.  Obama’s panel of business and labor executives is endorsing
“the approach to job creation  House Republicans  have been
pursuing for more than a year,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an
Ohio Republican, said in a statement.  “We must ease the regulatory burden on small businesses,
foster private-sector innovation, transition to a more
competitive tax system, and utilize the vast energy resources we
have here at home,” Boehner said.  Obama, during the meeting, reminded executives of the
November elections, which may make legislation difficult. The
president said he’ll continue to use his executive powers to
“at least chip away at some of these problems.”  Stubborn Unemployment  Recovery is under way in the U.S. economy, said Roger W.
Ferguson, a former vice chairman of the  Federal Reserve .  “The headline is that things seem to be getting
incrementally better,” Ferguson said, citing consumer and
business confidence. Still, it’s “not enough to dent” the
unemployment of 8.5 percent, he said.  Matthew Rose , chairman and chief executive officer of
Burlington Northern Santa Fe LLC, said the government needs more
consistent approaches to regulatory writing. He cited ozone
rules proposed for tightening, then canceled in September. Rose
said rules ought to be codified and not subject to whims,
depending on what party controls the White House.  “It’d go a long way to shutting the business community
up,” Rose said.  “Well, let’s go,” Obama said to laughter. “We’ve got to
give that more thought,” he said.  ‘Mantras’ to Adopt  “Investing in our future, building on our strengths and
playing to win -- these are mantras we must adopt,” Immelt said
in the report, titled “Road Map to Renewal.”  Obama appointed the council in February 2011 to replace the
President’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board. Its job is to
offer “non-partisan advice” on how to strengthen the  U.S.
economy  and ensure competitiveness while creating “jobs,
opportunity and prosperity for the American people,” according
to the executive order that created the panel.  To aid manufacturing, the council said, the government must
overhaul export controls to encourage high-tech equipment sales
in foreign markets, help small-business manufacturers to find
overseas markets and instill a “competitiveness” element in
all decisions governing regulation, taxes and infrastructure.  Regulations should be overhauled, an ombudsman should be
named to review disputes, and a “one-stop shop” should be
created for big projects that require a permit, it said.  To boost energy development, the government must allow more
access to oil, natural gas and coal deposits on federal lands,
the panel said, provided it can be done safely. Energy research
funding should be increased and the U.S. should also purchase
more alternative-fuel vehicles.  Obama said every government agency “has been focused on
how do they improve, get smarter, get better, get faster.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  