-- Obama, Abdullah Put Syria at Top of Agenda
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-01-18T02:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/obama-jordan-s-abdullah-put-syria-at-top-of-agenda-in-oval-office-meeting.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
Syrian regime’s bloody crackdown on dissenters was the most
pressing issue he discussed with Jordan’s King Abdullah during
an Oval Office meeting.  “Unfortunately we’re continuing to see unacceptable levels
of violence inside that country,” Obama said today, thanking
Abdullah, a U.S. ally, for being the first Arab leader to
publicly call on  Syria ’s President Bashar al-Assad to relinquish
power.  “We will continue to consult very closely with Jordan to
create the kind of international pressure and environment that
encourages the current Syrian regime to step aside,” he said
after the two met at the White House.  The meeting comes as Abdullah is attempting to revive
Mideast peace talks between the Israelis and Palestinians that
have been frozen for more than a year.  “Although this is still in the very early stages we have
to keep our fingers crossed and hope that we can bring the
Israelis and the Palestinians out of the impasse,” Abdullah
said.  More than 5,000 people have died since the Syrian uprising
began in March, according to  United Nations  estimates, in what
has become the greatest challenge to Assad’s regime. Security
forces killed 30 more people today, according to the  Al Arabiya 
news channel.  Cease-Fire Deal  Al Arabiya also reported that a cease-fire agreement
between the Syrian army and rebels has been reached in the town
of Zabadani, near the Lebanese border. The report cited an
interview with Kamal al-Labwani, an Amman-based member of the
Syrian National Council, an umbrella opposition group.  Today’s meeting was Abdullah’s second Oval Office visit
since the Arab Spring civilian uprisings began a year ago. He
also met at the White House with Obama on May 17, 2011.  At home, the Jordanian king has been grappling with rising
economic and political tensions, accusations of government
corruption, the prospect of civil war across the Syrian border
and “concerns about Jordan’s stability,” David Schenker and
 David Makovsky , fellows at the  Washington  Institute for Near
East Policy, a policy institute in Washington, wrote in a Jan.
13 analysis.  Protests Continue  Civilian protests have continued even as Abdullah has
sought to quell criticism by dismissing his cabinet, increasing
government subsidies through deficit spending and supporting
corruption investigations and trials, they said.  Schenker and Makovsky also said they expected Jordan to
seek U.S. financial support beyond the current annual level of
$360 million in economic assistance and $300 million in military
assistance.  “I think his majesty has been ahead of the curve in trying
to respond to the legitimate concerns and aspirations both
politically and economically of the Jordanian population,”
Obama said.  The two leaders also discussed Iraq and  Iran , Obama said.  There are “very few countries around the world that are
better friends and better partners than the Jordanians,” Obama
said.  The Jordanian king said in an interview with the Washington
Post yesterday that talks between the Israelis and the
Palestinians are in “little baby steps, right at the
beginning.” He said that “the intent, I believe, is there from
both sides.”  Peace Talk Doubts  A senior Palestinian official today expressed doubt today
that peace talks would yield progress.  “Plainly and simply, no,”  Hanan Ashrawi , a member of the
Palestine Liberation Organization’s policy-making Executive
Committee, said today in an interview at a conference in  Beirut .
She blamed Israel for the stalemate, saying its leaders “are
not going to cooperate with the Jordanians.”  Negotiations broke down in September 2010 after Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  refused to renew a 10-month
freeze on settlement-building and Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas ruled out negotiations while West Bank
construction continues.  Abbas said Jan. 4 that he may take “harsh” action if
 Israel  doesn’t stop settlement construction by Jan. 26, the date
set by the so-called Quartet of diplomatic powers for the two
sides to submit proposals on security arrangements and a final
border between them. The Quartet is made up of the U.S.,  Russia ,
European Union and the United Nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  