-- U.S. Obesity Rates Plateau Since ’00: CDC
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n ,   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-01-17T22:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/obesity-rates-hit-plateau-among-u-s-adults-since-2000-cdc-report-finds.html
The prevalence of obesity in the
U.S. largely leveled off over the last decade, even as some
individual groups, such as boys from ages 6 to 19, saw
increases, according to government data.  Obesity rates in adults rose slightly to 35.7 percent from
30.5 percent between 1999 and 2010, compared with rates that
nearly doubled in the two previous decades, the  Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention reported today. The rate
among boys climbed 29 percent, surpassing girls for the first
time, according to the Atlanta-based health agency.  “There is really a slowing down of the rapid increase in
the prevalence of obesity that we saw in the 1980s and 1990s,”
said Cynthia Ogden, a CDC epidemiologist and the report’s lead
author, by telephone. “Those increases we saw earlier are not
continuing, and we may be seeing a plateau.”  More than 78 million U.S. adults, or a third of the
population, and about 12.5 million children were obese in 2009-
2010, according to the studies reported in the Journal of the
 American Medical Association . The studies are part of a
continuing CDC effort to track obesity rates with updated
numbers every two years.  The researchers analyzed data from the National Health and
Nutrition Examination Survey, which weighs and measures
participants, producing the most accurate details available,
Ogden said. The analysis found virtually no changes since 2007, 
she said.  Changing the Environment  Until recently, the focus toward solving obesity was on fad
diets and possible designer drugs, according to Kelly Brownell,
director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy & Obesity at  Yale
University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut . Those won’t work on a
national scale because obesity is difficult to reverse once
established, he said.  Now that  public health  authorities have targeted obesity as
a driver of illness and death, akin to smoking or traffic
fatalities, they are increasingly finding ways to change the
environment to encourage healthier eating and physical activity
habits early in life, he said.  New York City  was able to reduce the obesity rate among
grade school children 5.5 percent from 2006 to 2010 by boosting
physical activity and encouraging healthier eating habits.  The percentage of obese kids in kindergarten through eighth
grade in New York City schools fell to 20.7 percent in the 2010-
2011 school year, from 21.9 percent in 2006-2007, according to a
study by the city’s health and education departments.  Health Risks  Obesity has been shown to boost the risk of  heart disease ,
diabetes, some cancers, osteoarthritis, sleep apnea and stroke,
the CDC has said. Americans  spend  about $147 billion a year on
obesity-related health costs.  “It was all about how to remedy obesity once it occurred,
the problem is it is a really hard problem to reverse, so you
want to prevent it,” The Rudd Center’s Brownell said. That’s
only starting to happen, with efforts to limit soda and junk
food in schools and other programs, Brownell said.  “The general population knows that obesity is problem, but
unfortunately attention doesn’t equal results,” said Nisa
Maruthur, an assistant professor of medicine at  Johns Hopkins 
School of Medicine in Baltimore, by telephone.  The continued creep of the scale among males and African
American women show that targeted programs are needed to try to
reduce obesity rates, she said. Unfortunately, there’s no way to
pinpoint why those groups in particular are still battling with
weight gain on a broad level, Maruther said.  Boys Rate Disconcerting  The most disconcerting finding is the increase in obesity
rates among boys, which is now surpassing levels in girls, said
Hu, who wasn’t involved in the research.  “The overall trend, even though it’s not as fast as before, 
is still going up gradually,” said Frank Hu, professor of nutrition 
and epidemiology at  Harvard School of Public Health  in  Boston , in 
a telephone interview. “Despite all the effort and all the money 
we’ve put into obesity control, there is no sign the epidemic is 
abating. If anything, obesity rates are actually inching up, 
especially in some groups.”  The U.S. Health and Human Services department has  awarded 
more than $119 million to states and territories for programs to
reduce obesity since 2009, including increasing physical
activity and improved nutrition.  More than a dozen states have also banned soda from school
vending machines and lunch lines, and some  restaurant chains ,
including McDonalds Corp., Chick-fil-A Inc. and  Darden
Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , have committed to cut calories in their foods.  ‘Unacceptably High Level’  “The fact that prevalence rates are reaching a plateau is
good news, but by no means are we at the end of the epidemic,”
said David Ludwig, a pediatric endocrinologist and director of
the New Balance Foundation Obesity Prevention Center at
Children’s Hospital Boston. “Unless we see declining rates of
obesity the impact on society will continue to mount for many
years to come. The plateau is at an unacceptably high level.”  According to the reports, men became more obese in the
latest decade, rising to 35.5 percent at the end of the decade
from 27.5 percent. The rate among women didn’t significantly
change over the time period, finishing at 35.8 percent.  Among all sexes and age groups, women 60 and older had the
highest prevalence, with 42.3 percent.  Obesity rates for boys ages 2 to 19 rose to 18.6 percent in
2009-2010 from 14 percent in 1999-2000, while the rate for girls
was little changed at 15 percent.  Video Games  One reason why boys may be getting obese faster than girls
is the ever-growing use of video games, the Internet, and
electronic devices, said Jacob Warman, chief of endocrinology at
the Brooklyn Hospital Center in  New York .  “Even though the schools are emphasizing exercise at the
gym, there are more things that take their attention away,”
making kids sedentary, he said in a telephone interview. Girls
are more self-conscious about their bodies than boys, which may
counteract the trend toward more screen time, Warman said.  Marion Nestle , a professor of nutrition and food studies at
 New York University , said fast-food establishments also tend to
target boys and young men.  “Marketers encourage boys and young men to eat and drink
as much as they can as part of macho lifestyles,” Nestle wrote
in an e-mail. “The bigger the portions, the more the calories,
and the bigger the person.”  Diet Pills  While public health officials have been pushing healthier
lifestyles to combat the epidemic, drugmakers such as  Arena
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA) ,  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX)  and  Vivus Inc. (VVUS) 
are competing to develop the first new obesity drug approved by
regulators in more than a decade.  Their efforts have been stymied by side effects deemed too
risky to win marketing approval by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration.  “You will see a drug approved in the next five years, but
it won’t be a perfect drug,” said Steve Brozak, an analyst with
WBB Securities in Clark,  New Jersey , in an interview.  Vivus’s diet pill, Qnexa, has been shown to be associated
with oral clefts in babies whose mothers took it in pregnancy.
Orexigen halted development of its drug, Contrave, for three
months last year after the FDA said a large study on heart risks
would be required for approval. It now plans to start such a
trial this year.  Arena’s lorcaserin was rejected by the FDA in 2010, after a
rat study showed a possible link to brain tumors. Follow-up
studies concluded concentrations of the medicine were less in
human brains than rats, and the FDA has accepted a resubmission
for approval.  Unprecedented Sales  Any diet pill that wins approval with negligible side
effects would generate unprecedented sales, bigger than  Pfizer
Inc.’s (PFE)  $10.7 billion cholesterol pill Lipitor, Brozak said.  “This is a Carl Sagan number -- ‘billions and billions,’
as he used to describe all the stars that are out there,”
Brozak said.  While no one in the public health world would deem the
levels of overweight and obesity in the U.S. acceptable, it’s
important to consider the environment facing the average
American, said Maruther at Johns Hopkins. There might be a
“sense of normalcy” among people whose peers are a similar
size and have the same sedentary lifestyle, she said.  “One thing might be culture,” she said. “It might be
that everyone around me is the same weight as I am, and our
lifestyle and work habits are similar in general. That’s part of
the challenge. It’s an uphill battle, for sure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  