-- OCBC’s Conner Is a ‘Hard Act’ to Follow, Aberdeen’s Young Says
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-01-17T11:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/ocbc-s-conner-is-a-hard-act-to-follow-aberdeen-s-young-says.html
Hugh Young , who helps manage $70
billion in Asian equities as Singapore-based managing director
of Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd., comments on  Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) ’s announcement that Chief Executive
Officer David Conner will retire in April after a decade running
the city’s second-largest lender.  Conner will be replaced by Samuel Tsien, global head of
corporate bank at OCBC, the lender said in a statement today.
Aberdeen holds a 5.9 percent stake in OCBC and is the bank’s
second-biggest shareholder, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “David has done a very good job, he’s been there for some
time and put in place a good team. Hopefully, it’ll be business
as usual, he’ll be a hard act to replace. He has made the bank a
lot more commercial and professional.  “It’s not a serious concern for us. We’re relatively
comfortable, though surprised. It’s a shame, but you can’t have
people in charge of companies forever. He’s had a good inning,
and I can’t imagine there being a sea change on the policy
front.”  On Conner’s replacement:  “I’ve met Samuel. I don’t have a tremendous feel of him.
He comes across well.  “It’s important to us that he’s not being replaced by
someone from the outside. You don’t want to bring in a banker
with a different culture. It’s a credit to David that the
successor is internal. We’re pretty comfortable that it’s
someone from the inside.”  On the purchase of ING Groep NV’s Asian private banking assets:  “He’s achieved quite transformational stuff, most recently
with the ING purchase, which was a brave move at the time. So
far, so good on the acquisition, it seems to be paying off
nicely.”  On reviewing Aberdeen’s stake in OCBC:  “We look at it all the time. But does this make us think:
oh my god, something is going off the rails, absolutely not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ; 