-- Hockney’s High-Tech Pictures Open Eyes at Royal Academy: Review
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-01-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/hockney-s-big-high-tech-art-opens-eyes-from-yosemite-to-yorkshire-review.html
The  Royal Academy  of Arts in  London 
has never been host to an exhibition quite like  David Hockney ’s
“A Bigger Picture.”  The academy has a history dating to 1768. The one-man show,
which runs from Jan. 21 to April 9, is a tour de force. It
consists almost entirely of new work, using both low-tech media
such as painting and the latest high-tech tools.  Hockney approaches the time-honored subject of nature in a
fresh, contemporary way. The result is spectacular.  You might ask, what’s the point of a bigger picture?
Hockney means the phrase in two ways. The first is paradoxical:
the larger the image, the closer to it the viewer feels. While
an ordinary-sized canvas is like a window on the world, a huge
one envelops you. Abstract painters such as  Mark Rothko  and
 Jackson Pollock  worked on a large scale for this reason.  Hockney does the same, depicting what he likes to call
“the visible world.” In the exhibition, there are wall-sized
paintings of corners of Yorkshire countryside near his current
base of operations in the seaside town of Bridlington. The
subjects are woodland and undergrowth. Looking at them, you
almost feel the leaves brush your face.  That is one kind of big picture. The other is more hi-tech.
Hockney has long argued that the photograph, seen through a
single lens, constricts our sense of the world. After all, we
have two eyes -- connected, as Hockney puts it, “to the mind.”
We move around a world we can touch and feel. In lots of ways,
our experience isn’t like the normal camera view.  Multiple Cameras  To address the problem, Hockney has come up with a new kind
of picture created by multiple, high-definition cameras set at
slightly different angles. The result is a moving photo-collage:
a bigger picture because it sees more, from varying points of
view.  Most of the films on show are landscapes, though the most
recent is a dance spectacular, shot on 18 cameras in Hockney’s
studio. It gives a wonderful festive finale to the exhibition,
in which Hockney paints the stage in sumptuous color, and shoots
the action like a combination of  Pablo Picasso  and Busby
Berkeley.  The whole  exhibition , as you walk through it, has a feeling
of crescendo. After an initial section dealing with Hockney
landscapes from early in his career, and including epic views of
the Grand Canyon and Hollywood Hills, it mainly focuses on the
Yorkshire terrain in which he has been working for the last few
years.  Quiet Fields  In a way, most of the exhibition could be considered one
huge work, documenting the way that Hockney has tracked ever
closer to these quiet trees and fields.  At first he used conventional media such as watercolor and
outdoor oil painting. The more recent work is mainly large-scale
oils done in the studio, and drawings done on his iPad at least
partly on location out in the landscape.  Some of the latter, done last autumn in Yosemite National
Park in  California , are printed out in a format with a height of
6 feet (1.8 meters).  Thus another high-tech medium lets Hockney combine the
virtues of the on-the-spot sketch with grand dimensions.  I should declare an interest. As a friend and supporter of
the artist, I’ve seen much of this work evolving. Nonetheless, I
was taken aback by the boldness and panache of the total
ensemble.  Hockney, 74, relates that once, after visiting a Monet
retrospective, he looked around with fresh eyes, and saw “just
a little bit more.”  This has the same effect. The experience is exhilarating.  “A Bigger Picture” will be at the Royal Academy, London,
from Jan. 21 to April 9. The show is sponsored by  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA. Information:  http://www.royalacademy.org.uk .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent  book  is “A
Bigger Message: Conversations With David Hockney.”. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 