-- OECD Says Chile Can Boost Taxes on Miners to Tackle Inequality
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-01-17T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/oecd-says-chile-can-boost-taxes-on-miners-to-tackle-inequality.html
Chile  should consider raising taxes
on mining companies to help the world’s  top copper producer 
tackle the worst inequality in the Organization for Economic Co-
Operation and Development, the Paris-based group said.  “Chile’s income inequality is high and the tax-benefit
system does little to reduce it,” the OECD, whose 34 members
include the richest nations in  Europe , said in an economic
survey of the country published today. “There should be room
for Chile to raise its taxes on mining without discouraging
investment.”  The Andean nation could eradicate poverty by redistributing
less than 1 percent of its gross national product to the poor,
the OECD said. Even after negotiating an increase in 2010 and
2011 with mining companies such as Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and London-based Anglo American Plc, Chile’s net income tax
on metal producers is less than half the amount charged by
 Australia .  Chile, where 15 percent of the population lives in poverty,
also needs to improve efforts to fight  tax evasion  and raise
levies on real estate and fossil fuels to boost spending on
social programs and education, the group said.  After more than six months of student-led protests last
year for more affordable and better schooling, the government
has agreed to propose changes to the tax system by April,
Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters in Santiago
yesterday.  The government is holding talks with political parties,
labor unions and business groups as it creates a plan for tax
changes that will improve equality and stimulate employment and
investment, he said.  Growth Forecasts  “Public expenditures on social protection and education
are likely to increase as Chile’s income level catches up and
demand for higher quality public services becomes stronger,”
the OECD said. “If properly designed, such spending increases
would also improve economic opportunities for the poor, thus
enhancing Chile’s growth performance.”  South America ’s fifth-largest economy expanded 6.6 percent
last year and will grow 4 percent in 2012 on weaker global
growth and commodity prices, the OECD said today.  Inflation (CNPINSYO) ,
which at 4.4 percent exceeded the central bank’s target last
year, will fall to 2.8 percent in 2012, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 