-- Oil Rises as German Confidence Jumps, France Seeks Faster Iran Sanctions
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-01-17T21:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/oil-rises-first-day-in-four-on-german-confidence-french-embargo-push.html
Oil rose for the first time in four
days as German investor confidence jumped the most on record and
as  France  pushed for faster enforcement of the European Union’s
proposed ban on oil imports from  Iran (OPCRIRAN) .  Oil gained 2 percent after the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research in Mannheim said its index of investor and
analyst expectations surged 32.2 points in January. France wants
the embargo to be delayed by no more than three months, two
officials with knowledge of the matter said.  “It looks like a recession in  Europe  is less likely now
and people are feeling more bullish,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “The pressure against Iran remains high despite
the delay.”  Crude for February delivery rose $2.01, or 2 percent, to
settle at $100.71 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Floor trading was shut yesterday for the U.S. Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. Prices have advanced 17 percent in three months.  Brent oil for March settlement increased 19 cents to
$111.53 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  The German index, which predicts economic developments six
months in advance, surged to minus 21.6 from minus 53.8 in
December, its second straight gain, according to the ZEW center.
The increase is the biggest since ZEW started the index two
decades ago. Economists forecast a reading of minus 49.4,
according to a Bloomberg News  survey .  Shorter Delay Sought  France is seeking a shorter exemption for crude contracts
with  Iran  even as other EU members favor a six-month delay,
according to an EU diplomat, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are confidential.  EU foreign ministers are scheduled to decide at a Jan. 23
meeting on the ban, which will probably include an exemption for
Eni SpA,  Italy ’s largest oil company. An embargo requires
unanimous approval by the bloc’s 27 states.  Iran, OPEC’s second-largest producer, has threatened to
block oil shipments through the  Strait of Hormuz  in retaliation
against international sanctions.  Oil also gained after Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al- Naimi said yesterday the nation aims to stabilize the average
crude price worldwide at $100 a barrel in 2012. The Saudis can
make up for any loss of output if sanctions are placed on Iran,
al-Naimi said in a CNN interview.  ‘Not Going Away’  “The embargo story is certainly not going away,” said
 David Lennox , a resource analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney who
forecasts U.S. crude will average $110 a barrel this year. “The
Saudis came out and said they were looking to target oil at
about $100 a barrel. I suspect that’s what the driver has
been.”  The kingdom can produce 12.5 million barrels a day and has
a current output of about 9.8 million, al-Naimi said. Iran
produced 3.58 million barrels in December and Saudi Arabia 9.65
million, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The minister said he doesn’t expect the Strait of Hormuz to
be shut for an extended period. The waterway is a transit route
for almost one-fifth of global oil trade, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  called on  Saudi
Arabia  to be more “wise” after al-Naimi’s comments, according
to the state-run Fars news agency.  China  Growth Slows  Oil also rose with U.S. equities on speculation that China
will take steps to boost growth after its economy grew at the
slowest rate in more than two years. Gross domestic product in
China, the world’s second-largest oil consumer after the U.S.,
grew 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter from the previous year.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.4 percent. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  added 0.5 percent.  “It certainly has been a situation where crude and
equities pretty much moved in lockstep,” said  Kyle Cooper ,
director of research for IAF Advisors in Houston.  China’s refineries boosted crude processing to a record in
December because of a domestic diesel shortage, data from the
statistics bureau showed today.  The euro rose for the first time in three days against the
dollar as Spanish and Greek borrowing costs fell at auctions,
damping concern the region’s most-indebted nations will struggle
to fund their deficits.  The European currency increased 0.5 percent to $1.2734 at
3:58 p.m. A stronger euro and weaker dollar increase oil’s
appeal as an investment alternative.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 710,924
contracts as of 3:49 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 775,449 on
Jan. 13, 29 percent above the three-month average and the
highest level in a month. Open interest was 1.39 million
contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  