-- Oil-Tanker Glut Shrinks on Chinese Demand
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-01-17T13:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/oil-tanker-glut-shrinks-to-14-month-low-amid-chinese-demand-iran-tensions.html
A glut of supertankers competing to
load cargoes of Persian Gulf oil shrank to a 14-month low on
Chinese crude purchases and persistent tensions over a possible
closing of the  Strait of Hormuz .  There are 5  percent more  ships available for hire over the
next 30 days than there are likely cargoes, the smallest excess
since Nov. 2, 2010, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
seven shipbrokers and owners today. Contracts used to bet on the
cost of shipping oil in February were little changed after
yesterday advancing the most since pricing began on Sept. 1,
according to broker Marex Spectron Group Ltd.  Demand for crude before  China ’s weeklong Lunar New Year
holidays starting Jan. 23 may be helping to lift charter rates,
Jens Martin Jensen, Singapore-based chief executive officer of
oil-tanker company  Frontline Ltd. (FRO) ’s management unit, said by e-
mail today.  Iran ’s threat to block the strait may spur traders
to stockpile crude, said Sverre Bjorn Svenning, an analyst at
Fearnley Consultants AS.  “Buyers are looking to secure oil cargoes in anticipation
of a possible full-scale conflict in the Hormuz,” Oslo-based
Svenning said by phone today. Fearnley Consultants is a unit of
Norwegian shipbroking group Astrup Fearnley. The waterway is a
chokepoint for shipments of crude from the gulf.  Charter rates  for very large crude carriers on the
benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan journey yesterday rose 6
percent, the most in two months, to 56.10 Worldscale points,
according to the London-based Baltic Exchange. Each of the ships
can haul 2 million barrels of oil.  The points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat
rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Daily income  for VLCCs on the benchmark route jumped 32
percent to this year’s high of $18,492 after surging 24 percent
on Jan. 13, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  