-- Olympus Panel Blames Auditors for $109 Million in Losses From Cover Up
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-01-17T10:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/olympus-panel-blames-auditors-for-109-million-losses-related-to-cover-up.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) , the Japanese camera
maker that hid $1.7 billion in losses, faulted five internal
auditors for the fraud and said KPMG Azsa LLC and Ernst & Young
ShinNihon LLC weren’t responsible.  An panel the company set up to investigate the fraud
determined that five internal auditors are culpable for 8.4
billion yen ($109 million) in costs related to the cover-up of
losses, Olympus said today in a statement. The company filed a
lawsuit in Tokyo District Court against the internal auditors
seeking a combined 1 billion yen in damages, Olympus said in a
separate statement today.  President Shuichi Takayama is scheduled to disclose what
else the company will do in response to the panel’s findings
tomorrow, Tokyo-based Olympus said. The company, also the
world’s biggest maker of endoscopes, last week sued 19 current
and former executives including Takayama over their roles in
concealing losses in a scandal that has led to a drop of about
$4 billion in Olympus’s market value.  Olympus declined 2.1 percent to 1,156 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of Tokyo trading. The stock has dropped 53 percent since
former Chief Executive Officer  Michael Woodford  was fired Oct.
14, and as details of the fraud emerged and the Tokyo Stock
Exchange put Olympus on a watchlist for possible delisting.  The panel’s probe found Minoru Ota, a former internal
auditor at Olympus who headed its accounting unit until 2001,
responsible for 3.7 billion yen of fees and other costs related
to the cover-up, the largest amount among the five people,
Olympus said in the statement.  The other four auditors, Tadao Imai, Makoto Shimada, Yasuo
Nakamura and Katsuo Komatsu, didn’t fulfill their duties and
were responsible for the remaining 4.7 billion yen of cover-up
expenses, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  