-- London Mining to Start Ore Shipments, Boosts Expansion Plan
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-01-17T10:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/london-mining-to-start-ore-shipments-boosts-expansion-plan-1-.html
London Mining Plc (LOND) , expanding an iron
ore venture in Sierra Leone, plans to start loading its first
shipment of the steel-making raw material from its Marampa mine
this month.  The ship, booked by sales partner Glencore International
Plc, is expected to arrive in Freetown on Jan. 23 and is
destined for  Europe , the company said today in a statement. It
will raise production capacity from the mine by 25 percent.  Shipping ore to Europe is “very good for margins, very
good for lowering transport costs,” Chief Executive Officer
Graeme Hossie said on a conference call with reporters in
 London . “This will be the first shipment from Sierra Leone to
Europe of iron ore for over 30 years.”  Still, the company cut its estimate for 2012 output to 1.5
million metric tons from 1.8 million tons due to unexpected
hardness of the ore requiring a second ball mill. Hossie
confirmed the government of  Sierra Leone  will increase its  tax
rate  to 25 percent in 2014 from 6 percent.  It plans to increase production capacity for the first
stage of the mine to 5 million tons from 4 million tons a year,
which will be reached in about 2014, Hossie said. Production
costs will be lower than $35 a ton, it said. The estimated cost
of the expansion has increased from $234 million to $300 to $310
million, the company said.  Additional Funding  The increased capacity may curb the need for the company to
seek additional funding for a further planned expansion to 9
million tons a year, Liberum Capital Ltd. analysts Dominic O’Kane and  Richard Knights  said in a note. Still, funding for
the first stage of the mine is now “tight” rather than
“comfortable” after it cut its 2012 production target and
raised the cost, the analysts said.  Hossie said the company has been in talks with the
government of Sierra Leone on its tax rate for the past 18
months. The increase from the current concession rate of 6
percent, which had been subject to review after five years, has
yet to be ratified by parliament, he said.  “That gives us the clarity for investment on the next
stage plant expansions,” he said of the increase.  The company is in talks with three potential customers,
including Glencore, for  iron ore  sales from the expanded mine
and is seeking prepayment of $45 million, Hossie said. It hopes
to conclude the sales contract within the next month, he said.  London Mining  advanced  1.8 percent to 301.75 pence at 9:15
a.m. London time. The company has a market value of 347 million
pounds ($533 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  