-- Hong Kong Says Air Quality Objectives to Take Start 2014
-- B y   M a r c o   L u i
-- 2012-01-17T08:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/hong-kong-says-air-quality-objectives-to-take-start-2014-1-.html
Hong Kong, facing criticism over its
pollution, plans to have new objectives for its  air quality  by
2014 and seeks to use the  World Health Organization  targets as a
benchmark, according to a statement from the government.  The city’s government will submit amendments to the air
pollution ordinance to the Legislative Council in 2012-13,
according to the statement. It wants to review its objectives
every five years.  The former British colony is seeking to address criticism
from lawmakers and academics over its delay in updating its 25-
year air quality standard, as cities including Beijing and
Taipei pledged to improve their monitoring and disclosure of
pollutants. Roadside pollution in Hong Kong contributed to about
7,240 premature deaths from 2005 to 2011, the  Civic Exchange 
think tank said, citing data from an environmental index.  Hong Kong ’s current method of measuring air quality is
“outdated and primitive,” University of Hong Kong’s School of
 Public Health  said in a statement today. The measurements “bear
no relation to actual health risks,” it said.  The university today released an update of its  Hedley
Environmental Index , which uses a peer-reviewed methodology to
indicate the public health impact of air pollution. The new
index will have a map showing levels of pollutants at 14
monitoring stations, and will benchmark itself to WHO guidelines,
the university said.  Last Months  The government’s statement today comes as Chief Executive
 Donald Tsang , who had pledged to clean up the city’s air, enters
the last months of his administration. While pollutants from
neighboring  China  have declined following an emission control
pact with the Guangdong provincial government, pollution from
vehicles has hurt efforts.  An estimated 528,388 hospital bed days, and 49.26 million
doctor visits “can be attributed to Hong Kong’s persistently
poor air quality” during Hong Kong Chief Executive Donald
Tsang’s term of office from 2005, the  Civic Exchange  said.  Hong Kong said on Jan. 11 that it will measure pollutants
smaller than 2.5 micrometers at all its monitoring stations by
March, a week after Beijing pledged to make similar data
publicly available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  