-- Monte Paschi Fresh Plan, Financial Tax, Swedbank: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-01-17T13:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/monte-paschi-fresh-plan-financial-tax-swedbank-compliance.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
 Italy ’s third-biggest bank, ruled out a share sale or a request
for state aid to meet capital requirements set by the European
Banking Authority.  The bank’s new general manager, Fabrizio Viola, said Jan.
13 at a press conference in Siena that the lender instead plans
to sell non-strategic assets and convert hybrid securities, so-
called Fresh, to raise capital. The Siena-based bank aims to
raise about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) by the conversion of
Fresh into core capital, he said.  Monte Paschi, which has a capital shortfall of 3.3 billion
euros according to the European Banking Authority, is working on
a plan to meet requirements that will be approved by the board
in a meeting scheduled on Jan. 19 and submitted to the national
authorities.  “The bank’s capital shortfall recognized by the EBA is
entirely due to our exposure to the Italian sovereign bond,”
Viola said. “The bank has good assets and we will work to
improve profitability.”  Monte Paschi shares fell as much as 5.9 percent before
being suspended in Milan Jan. 13.  Monte Paschi Chairman  Giuseppe Mussari , who said he won’t
seek reappointment in April, said that the bank will repay 1.9
billion euros of state aid provided in 2009 as soon as the EBA’s
requests for an additional buffer are revoked.  Compliance Policy  Danish Backing for EU Financial Tax Is Unlikely, Corydon Signals  Danish Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon signaled the Nordic
country is unlikely to back the European Union’s current
proposal for a financial transactions tax, arguing such a move
would hurt jobs.  Denmark this month took over the rotating EU presidency.  Germany  is pushing for an agreement across the EU’s 27
members enabling the introduction of a uniform tax in the
region, German Finance Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus said
Jan. 13. If this goal seems unattainable, the largest euro-area
nation will work toward a model that imposes such a levy on
countries inside the 17-member currency bloc.  The U.K. last month vetoed a Franco-German drive to impose
closer fiscal ties in  Europe , arguing the proposed package would
place the country’s bank industry at a disadvantage.  Unanimous backing for a financial tax in the EU is
unlikely, Corydon said. Denmark would support a financial levy
if one could be imposed without hurting jobs, he said.  Denmark isn’t opposed to such a levy on “ideological”
grounds, Corydon said. Rather, the country is concerned about
potential job losses, he said.  For more, see Interviews section, below.  SEC Weighs Rules on Analysts’ Dealings With Investment Bankers  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission may require
Wall Street firms to keep a physical separation between their
research analysts and investment bankers and ban bankers from
influencing which companies the analysts cover.  The agency will review those and other provisions in a 2003
industry settlement with an eye toward applying them “to the
entire industry,” according to a Jan. 6 letter from Robert
Cook, chief of the SEC’s Division of Trading and Markets, to the
Government Accountability Office.  The SEC said it would take that action as a result of a GAO
report published Jan. 12, which recommends that the agency look
into writing industrywide rules to head off potential conflicts
of interest between analysts and investment bankers.  A dozen Wall Street firms including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  UBS AG (UBS)  agreed to
such provisions in 2003 to settle claims by regulators that
their analysts published misleading research in an attempt to
win business for the banking side.  The settlement in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of  New York  separated analyst and banking departments,
overhauled how firms evaluate and pay researchers and gave
investors third-party research. The terms include a requirement
that compliance chaperones be present at talks between research
and investment-banking employees.  Several provisions were later dropped from the settlement
after regulators established industrywide rules on the same
issues. The result is that practices aren’t uniform throughout
the industry, the GAO said.  The GAO  report  said officials at the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, the self-regulatory organization that
polices broker-dealers under SEC authority, were critical of
imposing all the remaining rules in the settlement on the entire
industry.  EU Says Data-Protection Reform to Be Published by End of January  European Union plans to overhaul the region’s 16-year-old
data-protection rules will be published by the end of the month,
an EU spokesman said.  The bill will include stricter sanctions and equip national
data-protection authorities with powers to levy fines of as much
as 1 million euros ($1.3 million), or 5 percent of a company’s
annual sales, according to an early draft of the rules obtained
by Bloomberg News last year.  AT&T Says It’s ‘Troubled’ by FCC Bid to Control Airwaves Auction  AT&T Inc.’s top  Washington  executive said he’s “troubled”
that Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius
Genachowski  wants his agency to keep its power to set terms for
auctions to free airwaves for smartphones.  Genachowski’s stance may risk killing legislation to sell
rights to unused television airwaves, said  Jim Cicconi , AT&T’s
senior executive vice president-external affairs, on  a company
blog  Jan. 13.  The TV airwaves auctions, a proposal of the Obama
administration requiring congressional approval, are designed to
help alleviate shortages of frequencies under growing demand
from smartphones and tablet computers.  Cicconi said the FCC should be a “neutral arbiter.”  Genachowski said in a Jan. 11 speech that proposals before
Congress would bar the FCC from allocating airwaves to some
innovative uses, and prevent the agency from exercising its
traditional prerogative to set terms for auction participation.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, didn’t immediately comment.  Public Companies Should Outline Euro Risk in Reports, FRC Says  Directors of listed companies should describe the effect of
volatile currency markets and government budget cuts on their
international business in investor reports, a U.K. accounting
regulator said.  Reports should also review the implications of “one or
more euro area countries being forced to exit the euro area,”
the Financial Reporting Council said in an e-mailed statement.  Greece  and its creditors are yet to agree on the details of
a debt reduction package, more than two months after the nation
agreed to cut public spending in return for a 50 percent write-
off on the face value of its debt. The U.K.’s bank regulator,
the  Financial Services Authority , last year told lenders to
prepare contingency plans for the possibility of a country
leaving the single European currency.  “Directors of companies in the U.K. are trying to assess
the risks to their companies’ business models in difficult and
rapidly changing economic conditions,” Stephen Haddrill, chief
executive officer of the FRC, said in the statement today.  New Court at The Hague to Arbitrate in Global Financial Disputes  Financial firms and investors in complex cross-country
disputes can turn to a new tribunal in The Hague, the latest of
six international courts in the Netherlands.  “National courts and ad hoc arbitration until now haven’t
succeeded in unambiguous, authoritative jurisprudence,” Jeffrey
Golden, chairman of the management board for the new Panel of
Recognized International Market Experts in Finance, said in a
statement. The arbitration and mediation service, known as  Prime
Finance , opened yesterday.  The credit crunch and the collapse of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  led to an increase in lawsuits between banks and
other financial institutions. Regulators are concerned that
national courts lack the time and expertise to properly
adjudicate the disputes.  “This court can be used by large financial institutions,
such as banks and large asset managers, and eventually also by
states that have a dispute with financial institutions,”
Bernard Verbunt, a lawyer at Simmons & Simmons in Amsterdam who
specializes in banking and financial services disputes, said by
telephone.  The tribunal, at the Peace Palace in The Hague, can call
upon almost 100 experts to arbitrate or mediate in cases
involving derivatives and structured financial products.  The panel was set up by the  World Legal Forum  following a
meeting of lawyers, financial experts, regulators and central
bank representatives from the U.S., Europe, and  Asia  in 2010.  Compliance Action  Swedbank Writes Down Latvian Assets as Capital Rules Tightened  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , the largest bank in the Baltic region, plans
to write off 1.91 billion kronor ($276 million) from its Latvian
business as stricter capital rules in Sweden force the lender to
hold more equity.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Wolf said Jan. 13 in a
statement that the bank’s write down of goodwill has “no impact
on our view of Swedbank’s operations in Lativia, which is one of
the bank’s four home markets.”  Sweden’s financial regulator and the central bank in
November told lenders to target higher capital buffers than
elsewhere to protect taxpayers against the risk of losses.
Finance Minister Anders Borg has argued tougher regulatory
controls are needed in part after Swedish banks suffered losses
in the Baltics when the former Soviet region’s housing boom
turned to bust in 2009.  Swedbank’s goodwill for Latvia will be reduced to 1.96
billion kronor from 3.87 billion kronor as of the end of last
year, the bank said. Its capital position and cash flow
generation won’t be affected by the move, it said.  For more, click here.  Courts  Ex-SEC Lawyer Barasch Settles Stanford Ethics Dispute With U.S.  Spencer C. Barasch, a former lawyer for the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission accused of stopping investigations into
the business practices of R. Allen Stanford, settled a dispute
with Justice Department.  Barasch was identified in a 2010 SEC inspector general’s
 report  as having “quashed” three probes into Stanford’s
operations while head of enforcement in the agency’s Fort Worth,
Texas, office, and then representing the financier before the
SEC in 2006, a year after leaving the commission.  Stanford was indicted in June 2009 by a federal grand jury
in Houston on 21 counts including conspiracy to commit mail and
wire fraud and obstruction of an SEC investigation. He has
pleaded not guilty. The counts have since been reduced to 14.
Jury selection in Stanford’s trial is set to start on Jan. 23.  Barasch agreed to pay a $50,000 fine, according to the
statement.  Barasch’s lawyer, Paul Coggins, said in an e-mailed
statement that his client entered into an accord to avoid the
expense and uncertainty of drawn-out litigation.  “At no time has he compromised his honor or ethics and we
vigorously dispute any suggestion to the contrary,” Coggins
said.  Barasch, who left the SEC in 2005, is now in private
practice.  Ex-Syntax-Brillian Officer Chow Ordered to Pay $48.5 Million  Thomas Chow , the former  Syntax-Brillian Corp. (BRLCQ)  chief
procurement officer, was ordered to pay $48.5 million in a
default judgment after he failed to respond to an insider
trading lawsuit.  U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton in Phoenix on Jan. 12
entered the default judgment against Chow at the request of the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Chow was ordered to pay
$10.4 million in disgorgement, $2.57 million in prejudgment
interest, a $4.68 million civil penalty, and a $30.9 million
insider trading penalty.  The SEC in August sued Chow and two other former executives
at the Tempe, Arizona-based maker of high-definition
televisions, including Olevia, that went bankrupt in 2008. The
former executives were accused of booking fake sales to
artificially inflate the company’s earnings. The two other
former executives agreed to settlements with the SEC last year.  “In the period when the price of Syntax’s stock was
artificially inflated as a result of the fraudulent scheme,
Chow, in possession of material non-public information about the
scheme, sold nearly 2 million shares, and reaped illicit
proceeds of more than $12.6 million,” SEC lawyers said in the
Jan. 10 request for entry of default judgment.  Chow, who was also the founder of and co-owner of a Hong
Kong company that created phony purchase orders for Syntax’s
televisions, never answered or otherwise responded to the SEC’s
allegations, according to the Jan. 10 request.  Helen Wong, a lawyer in  Los Angeles  listed on the court
docket as Chow’s attorney, said in a telephone interview that
she no longer represents him and that she didn’t think he was in
the U.S.  The case is SEC v. Li, 11-1712, U.S. District Court,
District of Arizona (Phoenix.)  Interviews/Speeches  Wootton, Silva Discuss Banks, Financial Transaction Tax  Lord Mayor of London David Wootton talked about European
banking regulation and proposals for a tax on financial
transactions.  He spoke with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse.”  For the Wootton video, click here.  Separately, Ralph Silva, a strategist at  Silva Research
Network , talked about the U.S. and European banking industries
and proposals for a financial transaction tax.  Silva spoke with Louise Beale on Bloomberg Television’s
“Last Word.”  For the Silva video, click here. For more, see Compliance
Policy section, above.  Barofsky Expects ‘More Clarity’ for U.S. Bank Rules  Neil Barofsky, former special inspector for the U.S.
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and a Bloomberg
Television contributing editor, discussed the outlook for U.S.
financial regulations.  He spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Duke Says She Doesn’t Plan to Leave Fed at Month’s End  Federal Reserve Governor Elizabeth Duke spoke about banking
supervision and her term at the central bank.  Duke, who spoke in Santa Barbara,  California , said she
doesn’t plan to immediately leave the board in Washington when
her term ends this month, saying she’s able to stay at the Fed
until a successor is appointed.  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 