-- Cotton Rises to Two-Month High on Economy; Orange Juice Declines
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-01-17T20:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/orange-juice-rises-as-u-s-probe-may-slow-imports-cotton-gains.html
Cotton futures jumped to a two
month-high on speculation that better-than-expected economic
data in  China , the U.S. and Germany signals higher demand for
raw materials. Orange juice dropped.  Global equities rallied after gross domestic product in
China, the world’s second-largest economy, grew 8.9 percent in
the fourth quarter, above the median in a Bloomberg News survey.
A U.S. Federal Reserve report showed manufacturing in the  New
York  region increased at the fastest pace in nine months, and
German investor confidence rose by a record.  “It is definitely a ‘risk-on’ trading day for the
speculators,”  Mike Stevens , an independent trader in
Mandeville, Louisiana, said in an e-mail. “Positive economic
news coming out of China” and “strong outside markets,”
triggered the rally, he said.  Cotton for March delivery rose 2.8 percent to settle at
98.19 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. Earlier, the price
gained as much as 4 cents, the exchange limit, to 99.47 cents,
the highest for a most-active contract since Nov. 17. The price
has gained 7 percent this month.  The dollar fell as much as 0.9 percent today against a
basket of six currencies, enhancing the appeal of commodities as
alternative investments, Stevens said.  China is the world’s top cotton consumer, and the U.S. is
the biggest exporter.  Orange-juice  futures dropped 0.1 percent to $1.8435 a pound
in New York. Earlier, the price jumped as much as 4.1 percent.
The commodity has climbed 9.1 percent this month.  On Jan. 9, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration detained
orange-juice imports to investigate the use of a fungicide on
fruit in  Brazil . Carbendazim has been linked to liver tumors in
animals.  The FDA said today that holding imports may continue
through July while more samples are tested.  Brazil is the world’s biggest orange grower, followed by
 Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  