-- Morgan Stanley Said to Limit Cash Bonuses
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-01-17T02:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/morgan-stanley-said-to-limit-cash-bonuses-increase-deferrals.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s
biggest brokerage, is capping immediate cash bonuses at $125,000
as the firm curtails pay and defers more compensation for senior
executives, according to a person briefed on the plans.  Members of the company’s operating committee, led by Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman , 53, won’t get any immediate
cash, said the person, who declined to be identified because the
plan hasn’t been made public. Mark Lake, a spokesman for the New
York-based bank, declined to comment.  The decision comes after a fourth quarter that some
analysts predicted was the worst for trading and investment-
banking revenue since the financial crisis. Increased salaries
and previous moves toward deferring more pay have limited
investment banks’ flexibility to cut compensation costs,
analysts including Atlantic Equities’ Richard Staite have said.  Morgan Stanley’s decision will increase the average amount
of pay deferred to about 75 percent, the person said. The firm
deferred an average of 60 percent in 2010 and 40 percent in
2009. Deferred cash for 2011 performance will be paid out in two
equal installments in the final month of 2012 and 2013, a change
from the previous deferral plan that paid out in thirds over 18
months, the person said.  Details about the compensation plan were reported earlier
by the Wall Street Journal.  Morgan Stanley’s investment-banking unit set aside $5.74
billion for pay in the first nine months of 2011, an 8 percent
increase from a year earlier. Companywide compensation and
benefits rose 6 percent to $12.7 billion as revenue climbed 13
percent.  Junior Employees  The amount deferred for junior employees won’t exceed 25
percent of their bonuses, and those who are paid less than
$250,000 annually won’t have any cash deferred, the person said.
Some of Wall Street’s biggest firms are considering freezing pay
levels for some junior bankers, people familiar with the
deliberations said earlier this month.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  is likely to suspend its practice,
an industry norm, of boosting pay automatically each year for
analysts, associates and vice presidents within the investment-
banking division, a person with direct knowledge of the decision
said. While those employees will get their regular annual salary
increases, bonuses probably will be lowered to keep total pay
flat from a year earlier, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  