-- Hormuz Cutting Bearish Bets on Oil-Freight, Conoco Trader Says
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-01-17T20:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/hormuz-cutting-bearish-bets-on-oil-freight-conoco-trader-says.html
Following are comments on Iran’s
threat to blockade the  Strait of Hormuz  from Michael Reardon,
head of global strategy and freight trading for ConocoPhillips,
the third-largest U.S. oil company.  Iran threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz, the world’s
biggest chokepoint for seaborne oil, if sanctions are imposed
over its nuclear program, which the U.S. and allies suspect of
developing weapons. The government in Tehran says the work is
for civilian purposes. The 27 European Union countries will meet
Jan. 23 to discuss an embargo on oil imports from the Islamic
republic, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Reardon spoke on a conference call today.  “If there was an attempt to close the strait, you would be
looking at a week to maybe two weeks. There would be a
significant amount of oil that would not move. That would put
downward pressure on rates with the same amount of ships and
less demand for them.  ‘‘If the strait were to be reopened in that period, you
would have some inventories that might need to be made up, and
your forward days of cover for the global economy would be
reduced and that would need to be made up and that would
increase the need for tankers.  ‘‘You would also have a Strait of Hormuz that would be a
little more volatile, and that’s when you would start to see
some owners maybe not willing to go that way. If owners can get
a little momentum then they’re able to push rates up at least in
the near term.  ‘‘I have not heard of any increased premiums and with that,
it’s hard to extract exactly the components making up the recent
rate increase, though near-term fundamentals do support the rate
rise in terms of the supply and demand balance in the  Middle
East .  ‘‘It’s better to look right now at the futures market,
which is indeed implying increased volumes in the trading
activity and a little bit of upward pressure. You see if nothing
else people less willing to sell. We all know how the spikes can
go in these markets and that anybody who may have sold at a
certain level a few weeks back, as the headlines continue about
the possibility of an occurrence in the Middle East you’ll see
people raise the price at which they’re willing to sell.  ‘‘Spikes can occur. The extent of the spikes will depend on
the tightness in the existing market. But over time the
fundamentals do tend to bring the market back to where it should
have been.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  