-- Mortgage Investigations, Media Ethics, Dow, Sabre, MBIA-BofA in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-17T12:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/mortgage-probe-roche-dow-sabre-mbia-bofa-in-court-news.html
Singapore  Exchange withdrew a
lawsuit filed to force  China Sky Chemical Fibre Co. (CSCF)  to comply by
listing rules, and said lawyers for both sides met after the
company ignored a deadline to appoint a special auditor.  China  Sky’s lawyer is seeking further instructions from the
Quanzhou City, Fujian-based company, the exchange, Southeast
Asia’s biggest bourse by value of shares traded, said in a
statement yesterday. Singapore Exchange didn’t give a reason for
withdrawing the suit, according to a separate statement.  Investors have pressed for tougher rules as accounting
scandals wiped out millions of dollars in the market values of
China-based companies including  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  and led others
such as  FerroChina Ltd. (FRC)  to be delisted. The exchange had accused
China Sky of “flagrant disregard” of its order to appoint a
special auditor.  “SGX must show its teeth and pressure errant companies,”
said Aloysius Wee, managing principal at the Singapore
operations of Beijing-based Dacheng Law Offices. “Legal
proceedings may not be the appropriate way.”  Singapore Exchange (SGX) , also known as SGX, sued the Chinese
nylon-fiber maker and four of its Chinese directors on Jan. 6 to
compel the appointment of a special auditor to investigate
“interested-party transactions,” a failed land purchase and
certain repair costs. All three independent directors at China
Sky quit Jan. 5, citing non-compliance with the bourse’s order.  SGX issued the two statements after a closed hearing on the
lawsuit at Singapore’s High Court yesterday.  “Close-door mediation would be the best way forward,”
said Wee, who isn’t involved in the case. “It’s face-saving for
both.”  Some demands made by the bourse “were extremely
unreasonable,” China Sky said in minutes of a Dec. 24 meeting
in Singapore between its Chief Executive Officer Huang Zhong
Xuan and the bourse’s Lawrence Wong. The Chinese company
released the minutes in a Jan. 6 statement to the Singapore
Exchange. China Sky will “continue to communicate with SGX to
resolve the impasse,” it said in the statement.  The case was Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Ltd. v.
China Sky Chemical Fibre Co., Huang Zhong Xuan, Cheung Wing Lin,
Song Jian Sheng and Wang Zhi Wei OS11/2012 in the Singapore High
Court.  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  JPMorgan, Pforzheim Urged to Settle $71 Million Swap Suit  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the German city of Pforzheim
should settle a dispute over 56 million euros ($71 million) in
losses on an interest-rate swap, a judge said.  The city should accept one-third of the amount, Presiding
Judge Daniel Koehler told the parties at a hearing in  Frankfurt 
yesterday. While the city may win the case if it can prove that
it wasn’t properly informed about the initial market value of
the derivative, this isn’t guaranteed and proceedings may drag
on for a long time, he said.  “A settlement would pour money in the city’s coffers right
away,” Koehler said. “The amounts at stake aren’t peanuts and
both sides face considerable risks in this case.”  The city of Pforzheim is among several European
municipalities that lost millions of euros on derivative
transactions that went sour. After  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s
biggest bank, lost a case over interest-rate swaps at Germany’s
highest civil court last year, cities and small companies are
trying to recover their losses in court.  Lawyers for the city said the settlement amount proposed by
the judge wouldn’t be acceptable and that the city council must
consider the issue. JPMorgan’s lawyer said he will discuss the
proposal with his client. The court scheduled a ruling for March
23.  Pforzheim bought the swap to mirror a derivative it had
acquired from Deutsche Bank that accumulated 20 million euros of
losses. Over time, the Deutsche Bank transaction turned
positive, while the swap from JPMorgan incurred about 60 million
euros in losses.  Under most interest-rate swap agreements sold to utilities,
medium-size companies and cities, the lender paid a fixed rate
and the customer an amount based on Euribor rates.  The top court’s reasoning in the Deutsche Bank ruling would
apply in this case, so JPMorgan had a duty to disclose any
negative market value, Judge Koehler said. While the city had
experience with swaps and the negotiations were handled by two
women with some knowledge in the area, that didn’t exclude the
bank’s duty to advise its customer, he said. The court’s
assessment is preliminary, the judge added.  Yesterday’s case is LG Frankfurt, 2-25 O 669/10.  For more, click here.  States Discuss Mortgage Investigations as Bank Talks Drag On  About a dozen state attorneys general met last week to
discuss their mortgage investigations and how they might work
together as settlement talks with banks over foreclosures drag
on, three people familiar with the matter said.  The group, which met in  Washington , included  New York 
Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman ,  California ’s Kamala Harris
and  Martha Coakley  of Massachusetts, according to two of the
people, who declined to be named because they weren’t authorized
to speak about the meeting. Schneiderman, Harris and Coakley are
each conducting separate investigations of bank practices.  The meeting occurred as state and federal officials are
negotiating a settlement with the five largest mortgage
servicers, including  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. , that would set requirements for conducting foreclosures and
provide relief to homeowners.  Schneiderman, Harris and Coakley, along with Nevada
Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto and Delaware’s  Beau
Biden , have raised concerns about any deal that protects banks
from future investigations. Masto and Biden also attended the
Jan. 10 meeting, according to one of the people. The five states
aren’t among those negotiating directly with the banks.  “A number of likeminded AGs met together to discuss
current and ongoing investigations into the mortgage finance and
foreclosure industries in addition to prospective or future
investigations that may be fruitful,” Delaware Deputy Attorney
General Ian McConnel said in a phone interview. He declined to
comment further.  Harris and Masto announced in December they were
collaborating in their mortgage and foreclosure investigations.
Schneiderman and Biden are also cooperating. In December,
Coakley sued Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America,
New York-based JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co.  and
 Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , accusing them of conducting unlawful
foreclosures and deceiving homeowners.  Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller is leading talks for the
states. Geoff Greenwood, his spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement that Miller and other representatives of the
negotiating team “encourage input from their colleagues.”  For more, click here.  U.K. Tabloid Publisher Seeks Inquiry Ban on Secret Evidence  Associated Newspapers Ltd. (DMGT) , which publishes the Daily Mail
in Britain, asked a judge to ban the use of anonymous evidence
by journalists at a U.K. inquiry into media ethics, set up after
News Corp.’s phone-hacking scandal.  Allowing unnamed reporters and editors to allege illegal
practices at newspapers other than  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-shuttered
News of the World tabloid, would be unfair to other publishers
and risk hurting their reputations, Associated Newspapers’
lawyer, Mark Warby, said at a hearing Jan. 13 in  London .  The inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, is preparing to
use “untested evidence that will tend to tar Associated
Newspapers with a broad brush,” Warby said. “The press are in
a very real sense on trial.”  The publisher, a unit of Daily Mail and General Trust, also
publishes the Mail on Sunday and Metro. The Daily Mail’s editor,
Paul Dacre, has been a critic of the inquiry, saying in October
that phone hacking at the News of the World exposed police
failures and government hypocrisy rather than a need for more
industry regulation, which could result from the inquiry.  The victims of phone hacking and other wrongdoing by U.K.
tabloids “support the inquiry’s decision to allow anonymous
evidence,” said Dominic Crossley, who represents a selection of
victims at the inquiry.  “It’s an important part of the proper running of the
inquiry, given the inevitability that journalists will be
fearful of giving evidence in view of the impact upon their
employment,” Crossley said in a phone interview.  The inquiry was announced in July by U.K. Prime Minister
David Cameron after revelation that the News of the World hacked
into the voice mail of a murdered school girl in 2002, when she
was missing. The probe extends beyond News Corp.’s five-year-old
phone-hacking scandal, covering the ethics of the newspaper
industry and its relationship with politicians and police.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials/Appeals  J&J Marketed Risperdal for Kids After FDA Warnings, Jurors Told  The antipsychotic drug Risperdal was marketed for children
and adolescents by  Johnson & Johnson ’s Janssen unit after
warnings by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration not to do so,
a witness told jurors.  Janssen’s marketing to children began after the drug’s
introduction in 1994 and continued until the FDA’s first
approval for pediatric uses in 2006, jurors in state court in
Austin,  Texas , heard Jan. 13 from attorney Arnold Friede, an
expert witness for the state. Texas seeks at least $579 million
from J&J, claiming it defrauded the state Medicaid program by
hyping Risperdal and overbilling.  Friede explained company documents and FDA letters as
lawyers for Texas seek to show Janssen repeatedly disregarded
agency admonitions to not market Risperdal beyond its initial
approved use for psychotic disorders including schizophrenia.  Friede, a consultant who once worked at the FDA and Pfizer
Inc., said Janssen disregarded the drug’s label. From December
1993 to October 2006, it said: “Safety and effectiveness in
children have not been established.”  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, is the world’s
largest health-care products company. It denies the Texas
claims.  Texas joined a whistle-blower lawsuit filed in 2004 by
Allen Jones, a former Pennsylvania state investigator. An
attorney for Jones told jurors in his opening statement this
week that J&J made $34 billion in Risperdal sales over 17 years.  The case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288, District
Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  For more, click here.  Ecclestone Hid $5 Million Payment to Gribkowsky, Adviser Says  Formula One Chief Executive Officer Bernie Ecclestone
ordered a secret $5 million payment to former  Bayerische
Landesbank (BLGZ)  Chief Risk Officer Gerhard Gribkowsky, his adviser on
the transfer said.  “Ecclestone told me to transfer $5 million of his money to
Mr. Gribkowsky by using a special company so his name wouldn’t
appear,” Andre Favre, who worked as an adviser to Ecclestone,
told a Munich court at Gribkowsky’s bribery trial. “All
Ecclestone told me was that he owed Gribkowsky the money.”  Favre said he made the payment to the banker through a
Panama-based company named Lewington Invest, which was bought
for $2,000 or $3,000 by a law firm in Geneva in 2007 on behalf
of Ecclestone.  Prosecutors charged Gribkowsky, who managed Munich-based
BayernLB’s interest in the Formula One racing series, with
accepting bribes, breach of trust and tax evasion. They claim he
received $44 million in bribes to facilitate the sale of the
bank’s 47 percent stake in the Formula One to CVC Capital
Partners Ltd.  Gribkowsky demanded $50 million from Ecclestone as a reward
for approving the deal and threatened to disclose possible tax
violations by the Bambino family trust run by Ecclestone’s then
wife, prosecutors said. Gribkowsky denies the charges.  BayernLB acquired the Formula One stake after the 2002
bankruptcy of Leo Kirch’s media group. Gribkowsky clashed with
Ecclestone and sued him in a London court over corporate-
governance rules the Formula One chief had changed to limit the
lender’s influence. Ecclestone wanted to push BayernLB out and
saw a chance when CVC showed interest, prosecutors said in the
indictment.  Ecclestone testified in November that he saw no
“alternative” to making payments to Gribkowsky as he feared
that Gribkowsky might disclose information to U.K. tax
authorities about the family trust that might be “very
expensive” for him.  Roche Faces First Trial of Claims Over Raptiva Infections  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s  Genentech  Inc. is facing the first trial
of patients’ claims that its withdrawn Raptiva psoriasis drug
spawned fatal infections in some users.  Officials of  Genentech , a unit of Basel, Switzerland-based
drugmaker Roche, are readying for a Jan. 30 jury trial in state
court in California over allegations that Raptiva caused Stephen
Johnson’s death. The 46-year-old  Louisiana  businessman took the
drug to treat a skin condition. Genentech withdrew the
medication from the market almost three years ago after it was
linked to fatal brain infections.  “Psoriasis isn’t life-threatening and his wasn’t even that
horrible,”  Mark Lanier , a lawyer for Johnson’s family, said in
an interview. “This drug was never about the patients. This
drug was about the money.”  Genentech, based in South San Francisco, California, began
withdrawing Raptiva from U.S. and European markets in April 2009
after three psoriasis patients were diagnosed with  progressive
multifocal leukoencephalopathy , or PML, a rare, incurable brain
infection. The month before the withdrawal, Roche completed a
$46.8 billion buyout of the biotech company.  Nadine O’Campo, a Genentech spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the upcoming Raptiva trial. “Given this litigation
is ongoing, we are not commenting,” she said in an e-mailed
statement.  Johnson’s case is the first of about 100 Raptiva suits that
have been consolidated before Judge  Steven Brick  in state court
in Oakland, California. Lanier said there are other cases in
federal and state courts in Texas and Massachusetts.  The family is seeking $15 million in compensatory damages
over Johnson’s death along with “several hundred million
dollars” in punitive damages, Lanier said.  The case is Johnson v. Genentech Inc., RG 10-494957,
California Superior Court, Alameda County (Oakland).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Mabey & Johnson Owner to Repay Dividends Over Iraq Contract  Mabey & Johnson Ltd. ’s owner was ordered by a U.K. court to
pay 131,201 pounds ($201,200) in dividends gained after the
bridge builder paid kickbacks to win contracts from Saddam Hussein’s Iraqi government.  Mabey Engineering Holdings Ltd. will repay “sums it
received through share dividends derived from contracts won
through unlawful conduct,” the Serious Fraud Office said in an
e-mailed statement.  Two former directors of the closely held U.K. construction
company were found guilty last year of paying more than 420,000
euros ($536,700) to Iraq to win contracts, in violation of
United Nations sanctions against the country.  Mabey & Johnson alerted the SFO in 2008 of “irregularities
it had identified as a result of an internal investigation” and
was convicted of corruption and breaches of UN sanctions in
2009, the fraud office said.  “The company is viewed by the SFO as having conducted
itself in an exemplary way through its self-referral, extensive
cooperation with the authorities and the transformation of the
company,” the SFO said in the statement.  Peter Lloyd, chief executive officer of Mabey Holdings,
said the payment marked “the final chapter in our diligent and
painstaking work to root out historic unlawful practices,”
according to an e-mailed statement. Mabey now has new management
and “rigorous anti-bribery and corruption procedures.”  Ex-Dow Scientist Gets 5-Year Term for Trade Secret Theft  A former  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  research scientist was sentenced
to five years in prison for stealing trade secrets and selling
them to Chinese companies.  The sentence against Wen Chyu Liu, also known as David W.
Liou, was handed down Jan. 12 by U.S. District Judge James J.
Brady in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. A jury in February convicted
Liu of perjury and conspiring to steal Dow trade secrets. He was
indicted in 2005.  Liu, 75, of Houston worked for Dow from 1965 to 1992. At
its Plaquemine, Louisiana, facility he had access to secrets
related to the manufacture of chlorinated polyethylene or CPE,
used in the making of vinyl siding, electrical cable jackets and
industrial hoses, according to a U.S. Justice Department
statement Jan. 13.  “Liu traveled extensively throughout China to market the
stolen information, and evidence introduced at trial showed that
he paid current and former Dow employees for Dow’s CPE-related
material and information,” the department said.  He paid one Dow worker $50,000 for a process manual and
other product-related information, the U.S. said.  “The technology that Mr. Liou was convicted of stealing
belonged to Dow,” the Midland, Michigan-based company said in
an e-mailed statement Jan. 13. “Because of his education and
position within the company, Mr. Liou knew of its immense
value.”  Dow called the theft and sale of its intellectual property
“a complete betrayal of the trust imparted to Mr. Liou as a Dow
employee.”  The Dow Chemical case is U.S. v. Liu, 05-cr-00085, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Louisiana (Baton Rouge). The
Dow AgroSciences cases are U.S. v. Huang, 11-cr-00163 and 10-
cr-00102 U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On the Docket  Sabre Says Judge Delays Trial in AMR Flight-Data Access Lawsuit  Sabre Holdings Corp. says a Texas state judge has delayed
until Aug. 6 the trial in a lawsuit with AMR Corp.’s American
Airlines over distribution of the carrier’s fare and flight
data.  The trial initially was set for June 13. Sabre compiles
fare and flight data from airlines and distributes it to travel
agents.  Litigation Departments  Allen Stanford’s Lawyers Can’t Quit His Case, Judge Says  R. Allen Stanford’s attorneys must defend him at a $7
billion investment fraud trial that will begin Jan. 23 in
Houston federal court, said a U.S. judge who rejected the
lawyers’ bid to quit.  Stanford’s court-appointed attorneys, Ali Fazel, Robert
Scardino, John Parras and Ken McGuire, asked to exit his case in
a motion filed on Jan. 11, less than two weeks before the start
of jury selection. They claimed they hadn’t been given enough
time or resources to prepare an adequate defense against what
they describe as a complicated financial fraud case.  “The defense team’s primary reason for seeking such relief
is based upon its self-proclamation that Stanford’s right to
effective assistance of counsel will be impaired,” Hittner said
in a two-page order that also rejected the lawyer’s bid for a
three-month delay in starting the trial.  “The court notes that the defense team maintains this
position despite the fact that two of its lawyers -- Scardino
and Fazel -- have been appointed to this case since November
2010, and the other two lawyers -- Parras and McGuire -- have
been appointed to this case since March 2011,” Hittner said.  Stanford, 61, has been imprisoned as a flight risk since he
was indicted in June 2009 on charges of defrauding investors
through allegedly bogus certificates of deposit at his Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank Ltd. Stanford denies all
wrongdoing.  Hittner said in a separate order late Jan. 13 that
Stanford’s lawyers could argue yet another delay request, which
they filed under seal last week, at a pretrial hearing next
week.  The lawyers seek “a continuance on the basis that a non-
attorney member of the defense team will be unavailable to
assist at the commencement of trial,” Hittner said in the
ruling. He ordered the government and Stanford’s lawyers to
continue “full trial preparation” in the meantime.  The former financier was declared indigent and given a
taxpayer-financed defense because all of his assets were frozen
by court order after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
sued him in February 2009.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Ex-SEC Lawyer Barasch Settles Stanford Ethics Dispute With U.S.  Spencer C. Barasch, a former lawyer for the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission accused of killing investigations into
the business practices of R. Allen Stanford, settled a dispute
with Justice Department.  Barasch was identified in a 2010 SEC inspector general’s
 report  as having “quashed” three probes into Stanford’s
operations while head of enforcement in the agency’s Fort Worth,
Texas, office, and then representing the financier before the
SEC in 2006, a year after leaving the commission.  Stanford was indicted in June 2009 by a federal grand jury
in Houston on 21 counts including conspiracy to commit mail and
wire fraud and obstruction of an SEC investigation. He has
pleaded not guilty. The counts have since been reduced to 14.
Jury selection in his trial is set to start on Jan. 23.  “There must be zero tolerance for ethical missteps,” U.S.
Attorney John M. Bales of Beaumont, Texas, said Jan. 13 in a
statement. Barasch agreed to pay a $50,000 fine, according to
the statement.  Barasch worked for Stanford after being told by the SEC
that he couldn’t do so because of a “permanent conflict of
interest,” Bales said.  Barasch’s lawyer, Paul Coggins, said in an e-mailed
statement that his client entered into an accord to avoid the
expense and uncertainty of drawn-out litigation.  “At no time has he compromised his honor or ethics and we
vigorously dispute any suggestion to the contrary,” Coggins
said.  Barasch, who left the SEC in 2005 after a 17-year career,
is now in private practice in the Dallas office of the Houston-
based law firm  Andrews Kurth LLP (1262L) .  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court Filings  MBIA Suit Against BofA Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  An  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  suit alleging  Bank of America Corp.  saying
duped it into guaranteeing payment on Countrywide mortgage
bonds, was the most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law
system last week.  MBIA, which sued Countrywide in 2008, guarantees payments
to investors that bought securities backed by pools of the
lender’s loans. The insurer says the loans were riskier than
Countrywide promised, and as they defaulted, the Armonk, New
York-based company was forced to make payments. Through
September 2010, MBIA had paid out $2.5 billion on mortgage
securities sponsored by Countrywide.  On Jan. 3, Bank of America lost a ruling that will help the
bond insurer as it tries to recover losses. MBIA needs only to
show the lender made misrepresentations about the loans backing
the bonds, instead of establishing they caused the losses the
insurer is seeking to recover, New York state Judge Eileen
Bransten said in a decision.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 602825-2008, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 