-- Oversea-Chinese Banking Appoints Tsien to Replace Conner as CEO in April
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-01-18T02:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/oversea-chinese-banking-appoints-tsien-to-replace-conner-as-ceo-in-april.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC)  named
Samuel Tsien as chief executive officer to replace David Conner,
who will retire in April after a decade running what is now
 Singapore ’s second-largest lender.  The change takes effect April 15, according to a statement
to the Singapore exchange yesterday. Conner will remain as a
non-executive board director. The bank also appointed Ching Wei Hong to the newly created position of chief operating officer.  Conner, 63, joined the lender as CEO in April 2002 and
delivered core net income growth of 16 percent compounded
annually from 2003 to 2010, the bank said. Under Conner,
Oversea-Chinese agreed to buy ING Groep NV’s private banking
business in Asia in October 2009 for $1.46 billion in cash, more
than tripling the unit’s assets.  “David has done a very good job, he’s been there for some
time and put in place a good team,” said  Hugh Young , who helps
manage $70 billion in Asian equities at Aberdeen Asset
Management Asia Ltd., including shares in the bank. “Hopefully,
it’ll be business as usual, he’ll be a hard act to replace.”  Oversea-Chinese fell 0.5 percent to S$8.21 as of 10:08 a.m.
in Singapore trading. Before today, it gained 43 percent since
Conner became CEO on April 15, 2002, compared with a 60 percent
increase in the benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  and outperforming
domestic rivals DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and United Overseas Bank
Ltd., which have risen 6.1 percent and 19 percent, respectively.  Nothing Radical  Tsien, 57, has run the lender’s global corporate bank since
2007. Before then, he spent 30 years with Bank of America Corp.
and associated companies. He was president and chief executive
officer of China Construction Bank ( Asia ) Corp., formerly known
as Bank of America (Asia), according to the Singapore lender.  “We don’t know much about Samuel,” said Anand Pathmakanthan, a Singapore-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.
“For the moment, I don’t think he’ll do anything radical, but
will continue on the present strategy, which includes building
up the private bank and growing the Asean franchise.”  Bloomberg Markets ranked Oversea-Chinese as the strongest
bank in the world among lenders with at least $100 billion in
assets in its June 2011 issue. The ranking weighed and combined
five measures, including  Tier 1 capital  compared with risk-
weighted assets; non-performing assets compared with total
assets; and efficiency, a comparison of costs against revenues.  Boosted Assets  Conner was paid S$7.48 million ($5.8 million), according to
the bank’s 2010 annual report. Before joining the bank, Conner
spent 25 years at  Citibank NA , a unit of Citigroup Inc., in
 India ,  Japan  and Singapore.  The CEO “has been associated with OCBC’s success,”
Nomura’s Pathmakanthan said. “Improving the bank’s risk
management is his primary achievement, followed by developing
the deposit franchise and expanding the fee income base.”  Conner, who grew up in  St. Louis , boosted the bank’s total
assets by more than threefold to S$267 billion by Sept. 30, 2011,
from the end of 2002, Chairman Cheong Choong Kong said in an
internal memo to employees yesterday.  “It’s a shame, but you can’t have people in charge of
companies forever,” said Young of Aberdeen Asset Management,
which is the lender’s biggest institutional shareholder,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “He’s had a good
inning, and I can’t imagine there being a sea change on the
policy front. It’s important to us that he’s not being replaced
by someone from the outside.”  Conner led the acquisition of majority control of
Singapore-based insurer  Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. (GE)  in 2004 and
the purchase of a 22.5 percent stake in PT Bank NISP in
 Indonesia  the same year. The bank now owns 87 percent and 85
percent, respectively, of the companies.  In December, Oversea-Chinese named Darren Tan Siew Peng as
chief financial officer, replacing Soon Tit Koon, who retired.
Tan was the bank’s deputy chief financial officer before the
appointment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 Jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  