-- Hoyer Wants U.S. Payroll Tax Cut Deal Before Late February
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-01-17T20:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/hoyer-says-he-wants-payroll-tax-cut-deal-before-late-february.html
U.S. Representative  Steny Hoyer  of
 Maryland  said he is “very hopeful” Congress will pass a
payroll  tax cut  extension for the rest of 2012 before lawmakers
break for a recess in mid-February.  Hoyer, the second-ranking House Democrat, told reporters in
Washington today that lawmakers should “not wait until the last
minute,” as they did in December, to extend the 2 percentage
point tax cut as well as expanded unemployment benefits and a
provision to avert a planned cut in Medicare payments to
doctors.  The  payroll tax cut  will expire at the end of February
unless Congress acts. Republicans and Democrats disagree on how
to pay for the tax cut for the rest of 2012. Democrats favor a
surcharge on millionaires while Republicans have proposed
raising Medicare premiums for wealthier seniors, reducing aid to
the jobless and extending a pay freeze for federal workers.  House and Senate leaders named negotiators who will start
meeting as soon as next week to work on a plan. Hoyer said he
wants them to reach agreement by the end of January so Congress
can vote on legislation before the Presidents’ Day recess that
begins Feb. 17.  Allowing lawmakers’ discussions to go near the deadline, as
in December, “would be disruptive to the economy and not a
responsible action on our part,” Hoyer said.  Republicans got “a black eye” for their handling of the
issue in December and were viewed as not unified and
“ultimately as agreeing to something” they initially said they
wouldn’t accept, Hoyer said. “If I’d gone through that process,
I think maybe I don’t want to repeat it.”  Although Democrats still believe a tax on millionaires is
the “wisest” way to pay for the payroll tax cut, the Senate
doesn’t have the 60 votes to gain the chamber’s approval for
that, Hoyer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  