-- Paragon Shipping Receives Request to Renegotiate Vessel Charter
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-01-17T16:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/paragon-shipping-receives-request-to-renegotiate-vessel-charter.html
Paragon Shipping Inc. (PRGN) , a Marshall
Islands-incorporated owner of 16 dry-bulk vessels, said a
customer asked to renegotiate the rent for a supramax ship.  Deiulemar Compagnina di Navigazione SpA  asked to change the
$33,750 a day it’s paying to hire the Friendly Seas, Paragon
said today in a statement. The charter with the Naples, Italy-
based company runs for 27 more months, according to Paragon.
Supramaxes haul minerals and grains.  Renters of dry-bulk vessels are asking to renegotiate long-
duration charters arranged before rates plunged, reducing
earnings to the lowest level in almost three years. The Baltic
Dry Index, a measure of commodity shipping costs, is down 44
percent this year, according to the  Baltic Exchange . Average
rates to charter supramaxes for single voyages are the lowest in
35 months at $9,695 a day, the exchange’s figures show.  China Cosco Holdings Co. agreed in August to lower longer-
duration charter rates with shipowners covering 18 vessels.
Golden Ocean Group Ltd., an Oslo-based owner and operator of
dry-bulk vessels, said Jan. 5 it changed payment terms for
longer-duration charter contracts for two capesize vessels, the
largest in the dry-bulk fleet. Athens-based Star Bulk Carriers,
with 15 ships, said Jan. 9 it negotiated the early return of a
dry-bulk ship.  Deiulemar sought a “commercial solution” to lower the
charter rate, Nicola Gerado, a spokesman for the company’s
charter department, said by phone.  Paragon paid $79.3 million in June 2008 to buy the Friendly
Seas and owes $36.6 million, according to filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  