-- Perry Loses Bid to Prevent Virginia From Printing Ballots Without His Name
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-17T22:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/perry-loses-bid-to-stop-va-from-printing-ballots.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  lost a bid
to stop  Virginia  from printing ballots for the Republican
presidential primary without his name on them.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Richmond, Virginia, today rejected Perry’s request to block the
state from printing ballots and sending out absentee ballots for
the March 6 primary while his appeal seeking to be included on
the ballots was pending.  Perry “had every opportunity to challenge the various
Virginia ballot requirements at a time when the challenge would
not have created the disruption that this last-minute lawsuit
has,” judges J. Harvie Wilkinson III, G. Steven Agee and Albert Diaz ruled. His “request contravenes repeated Supreme Court
admonitions that federal judicial bodies not upend the orderly
progression of state electoral processes at the eleventh hour.”  Newt Gingrich , who also filed an appeal with the same
court, sent a letter to the court yesterday saying he agreed
with Perry’s request for an injunction.  The candidates are challenging a Virginia law requiring
that people gathering signatures for a candidate’s petition to
appear on the ballot be eligible to vote in the state.  U.S. District Judge John Gibney in Richmond ruled Jan. 13
that Perry, Gingrich and two other Republican presidential
candidates waited too long to challenge the eligibility
requirements. The candidates say the rule violates their rights
under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.  Perry Reaction  “An orderly ballot access process is important, but of
little significance if viable candidates are unconstitutionally
kept off the ballot,” Joseph Nixon, a lawyer for Perry, said in
an e-mailed statement.  He said Perry is weighing options for an appeal.  “We are disappointed with the ruling, naturally, and are
in the process of studying it to determine what our options will
be,” Stefan Passantino, a lawyer for Gingrich, said by e-mail.  He added that he was “disappointed that the Court of
Appeals would find no reason to question the lower court’s
finding that Virginia’s statute ‘is highly unlikely to withstand
First Amendment challenge” and still deny Perry and Gingrich’s,
bid to delay the process.  State Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli said by e-mail he
was “pleased with the Fourth Circuit ruling and that Virginia’s
orderly election process will be able to move forward.”  Candidates’ Challenge  Gibney denied a challenge by Perry, Gingrich,  Rick Santorum 
and  Jon Huntsman , who argued Virginia’s primary rules requiring
those seeking to have their names placed on the ballot submit
10,000 signatures from valid Virginia voters are improper and
unconstitutional. Huntsman dropped out of the race yesterday and
endorsed front-runner  Mitt Romney .  Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts , and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas are the only Republicans to
make it onto the ballot for Virginia’s primary on so-called
Super Tuesday.  Cuccinelli argued in court papers last week that materials
for the primary needed to go to the printer immediately to meet
legal deadlines for getting ballots to absentee and overseas
voters.  The district court case is Perry v. Judd, 3:11-cv-00856,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).
The appeal is Perry v. Judd, 12-1067,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 