-- Philippines May Cut Rate to Join Asian Easing
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2012-01-17T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/philippines-may-cut-rate-to-join-asian-easing.html
The  Philippines  may cut  interest
rates  for the first time since July 2009, joining nations from
 Australia  to  Thailand  in easing monetary policy as Europe’s debt
crisis curbs economic growth.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  will reduce the  rate  it pays
lenders for overnight deposits by a quarter of a percentage
point to 4.25 percent, according to 13 of 17 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg News ahead of a decision tomorrow. The rest expect
the benchmark to be left unchanged at 4.5 percent.  Lower borrowing costs may aid President  Benigno Aquino ’s
efforts to boost growth as he increases spending and seeks
investment for roads and airports. The  Philippine Stock Exchange
Index (PCOMP)  rose to a record this month and became the best performer
among 19 Asian share indices tracked by Bloomberg in the past
six months as investors bet policy makers will take steps to
stimulate growth and counter faltering global demand.  “Conditions are right for the cut,” said Trinh Nguyen, a
Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Across  Asia ,
inflation is on the downward trend. Growth concerns are enough
to motivate the BSP to give a lending hand.”  Growth in Asian economies is faltering as Europe’s debt
woes hurt the region’s exports.  China  yesterday reported its
weakest expansion in 10 quarters. The Philippines’ $200 billion
economy expanded 3.2 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, holding near the 3.1 percent pace in the previous three
months that was the slowest since 2009.  Scope for Easing  Bangko Sentral Governor Amando Tetangco said last week he
anticipates easing monetary policy this quarter should  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis further damp the growth outlook.  “Given benign inflation conditions and a favorable
inflation outlook, we have room to support domestic activity
should the global economy deteriorate significantly,” Tetangco
said Jan. 9. Policy makers may cut the benchmark rate or reduce
banks’ reserve ratio as the central bank forecasts inflation
this year and next will average closer to the low-end of a 3
percent to 5 percent target, he said.  Inflation slowed to an 11-month low in December, with
consumer prices rising 4.2 percent from a year earlier.  Exports (PHEXYOY) 
fell for a seventh month in November.  The Philippine central bank kept its benchmark policy rate
unchanged for a fifth meeting in December after two increases
earlier in 2011. It also raised the reserve requirement twice
last year, bringing the ratio to 21 percent.  Indonesia  Decision  Bank Indonesia , which kept its benchmark rate unchanged
last week for a second month after reductions in October and
November, widened the lower range of its interbank lending rate
this week in a de facto easing of monetary policy.  The central bank in Southeast Asia’s largest economy said
yesterday it would extend the bottom end of its deposit facility
to 200 basis points below its benchmark interest rate from 150
basis points. The move is a form of easing by pushing interbank
borrowing costs lower, Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based fixed-
income strategist at Societe Generale SA, wrote in a note.  Aquino is increasing spending this year to a record 1.83
trillion pesos ($42 billion) to help bolster Philippine growth
to as much as 8 percent annually. The government also plans to
offer as many as 16 projects to investors this year, compared
with one contract awarded in 2011.  Ayala Corp., leading a consortium that won a contract last
month to build a four-kilometer, four-lane paved toll road
leading to provinces south of the capital, may bid for two road
projects and a contract to run an airport, Managing Director
Eric Francia said Dec. 15.  Aquino has won sovereign-rating upgrades from  Fitch Ratings 
and Moody’s Investors Service after intensifying efforts to
narrow the budget gap from a record 314 billion pesos in 2010.
 Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook on the country’s debt
rating last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  