-- Philadelphia Swaps Cost Taxpayers $331M: Report
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-01-17T20:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/philadelphia-taxpayers-lost-331-million-on-swaps-report-says.html
Philadelphia and its school district
have lost a combined $331 million on interest-rate derivatives
known as swaps, and the city stands to lose $244 million more,
the Pennsylvania Budget and Policy Center said in a report.  Losses came in the form of net interest payments and
cancellation fees related to derivatives negotiated with banks
that included  Wells Fargo & Co. , Morgan Stanley and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the Harrisburg-based nonprofit organization
said today in the report. It examined financial audits, bond
documents, and historical interest rates of variable benchmarks.  Cancellations and payments from the school system, the
eighth-largest in the U.S., show losses of $161 million, while
the city, the nation’s fifth-largest by population, lost $170
million through July 2011, according to the report. The district
closed a $629 million current-year budget gap by cutting
teachers and programs. The group said banks that profited from
the swaps should help schoolchildren and taxpayers.  “Paying back termination fees to the school district as an
act of goodwill could put students back in music and gifted
programs,” the organization said in the report. The nonprofit
group, started in 2005, focuses on policies as they affect
working families, according to its website.  Alleviating Cuts  “Renegotiating active swaps with the city to more
equitable terms could alleviate future cuts to the city
budget,” the group said in the report. “It’s only fair.”  Rob Dubow, Philadelphia’s finance director,  Mark McDonald ,
a city spokesman, and Fernando Gallard, a school district
spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to telephone calls seeking
comment on the report. Michael Duvally, a spokesman for Goldman
Sachs, and Mary Claire Delaney, a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  Mary Eshet , a Wells Fargo spokeswoman,
couldn’t immediately comment on the report.  The city continues to make “excessive payments” to
counterparties on active swap agreements, according to the
report. It estimates additional losses of $244 million on the
assumption that the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association Municipal Swap Index  rate  and a London interbank
offered rate, or  Libor (YCMM0021) , won’t rise above 0.3 percent.  Libor Index  The report didn’t identify which Libor index was used in
the deals. The one-month rate  dropped  as low as 0.185 percent on
July 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and since then
has risen to 0.281 percent today.  Interest-rate swaps are derivative transactions in which
two parties agree to trade interest payments on a set amount of
debt, letting one of the parties create a fixed-rate payment on
variable-rate debt.  Before the city’s school system began to cancel the swaps
in 2009, its billion-dollar stake in the contracts was the
largest among 107  Pennsylvania  districts that entered the
transactions, state Auditor General Jack Wagner reported in
November 2009.  Wagner has urged lawmakers in Pennsylvania, the sixth-
largest U.S. state by population, to repeal 2003 legislation
that allowed school districts and other local governments to
trade in swaps. He called the deals “impenetrably complex
transactions that, quite simply, amount to gambling with public
money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  