-- Prayer Cases Turned Away by U.S. Supreme Court Justices
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-01-17T17:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/prayer-cases-turned-away-by-u-s-supreme-court-justices.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  refused to
give government bodies more freedom to open sessions with
prayers, rejecting a pair of appeals that sought to loosen the
restrictions some lower courts have imposed.  The justices today left intact a federal appeals ruling
that said a North Carolina county board was violating the
constitutional separation of church and state by opening most of
its sessions with a Christian prayer. The high court also
refused to review a separate decision that barred prayers at
meetings of a  Delaware  school board.  The Supreme Court hasn’t ruled on the constitutionality of
prayer at government meetings since 1983, when the justices said
lawmakers could begin sessions with nonsectarian prayers offered
by a state-employed chaplain.  The court under Chief Justice  John Roberts  has given
governmental bodies more freedom to support religion. The court
last year put new limits on the power of citizens to challenge
government programs as violating the constitutional ban on the
establishment of religion. The justices last week ruled for the
first time that religious organizations can’t be sued for job
discrimination by their ministers.  In the North Carolina case, the Forsyth County Board of
Commissioners used private religious leaders to deliver its
prayers, each year inviting members of various faiths to sign up
on a first-come, first-served basis to deliver an invocation.  Referring to Jesus  The result tended to be prayers that were predominantly
Christian. From May 29, 2007, to Dec. 15, 2008, almost 80
percent of the prayers referred to Jesus, according to the
decision by the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond,
Virginia.  “Invocations must consist of the type of nonsectarian
prayers that solemnize the legislative task and seek to unite
rather than divide,” Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson wrote for the
majority in the 2-1 appeals court decision. “Sectarian prayers
must not serve as the gateway to citizen participation in the
affairs of local government.”  The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives open their
daily sessions with a non-denominational prayer by a chaplain or
a guest member of the clergy.  Forsyth County, which has 350,000 residents and includes
the city of Winston-Salem, contends the lower court ruling will
force local governments to parse the content of legislative
prayers to eliminate any sectarian references.  Law ‘Settled’  “The invocation policy of Forsyth County informed the
audience of the purpose of the invocations, permitted the
invocations to be presented by private citizens rather than a
paid government employee and opened the opportunity to members
of all faith traditions,” the county argued.  Two women who attended a 2007 board meeting, Janet Joyner
and Constance Lynne Blackmon, challenged the prayer policy.
Their lawyers include attorneys from the  American Civil
Liberties Union .  “The law is now settled, and we are very happy that nobody
in Forsyth County or anywhere else will feel like a second-class
citizen because of what they believe,” said Katy Parker, legal
director for the ACLU’s North Carolina chapter.  The case is Forsyth County v. Joyner, 11-546.  In the other case, the justices left intact a federal
appeals court decision that barred prayers at meetings of the
Indian River School Board in Delaware.  The Philadelphia-based 3rd Circuit said the involvement of
students made the board meetings different from legislative
sessions. The three-judge panel likened the meetings to a school
graduation ceremony, which the Supreme Court said in 1992
couldn’t be a forum for organized prayer.  The case is Indian River School District v. Doe, 11-569.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  