-- Private-Equity Firms to Increase Hotel Investments in Smaller U.S. Cities
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-01-17T14:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/private-equity-firms-to-increase-hotel-investments-in-smaller-u-s-cities.html
Private-equity firms will help drive
an increase in hotel transactions this year in smaller U.S.
cities, where investment returns tend to be higher than in large
markets, according to Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels.  “While public real estate investment trusts have been
focused on major markets, private equity has been looking at
secondary markets,” where hotel income is greater relative to
property prices, said Arthur Adler, managing director and chief
executive officer for the Americas at the firm, part of  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  “The reluctance to invest in secondary
markets is melting.”  Minneapolis;  St. Louis ; Nashville,  Tennessee ; and
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina  are among cities attractive to lodging
investors because they lure travelers and have healthy business
climates, Adler said in an interview. While purchases in smaller
cities are likely to rise, transactions across the U.S. lodging
industry probably will total about $15 billion, little changed
from last year’s four-year high of $15.2 billion, London-based
Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels said in a statement.  Adler said he doesn’t expect a “meaningful” increase in
U.S. hotel transactions until next year, with real estate
investment trusts not returning to the market until the second
half of 2012. His firm provides sale, purchase and financing
advice on lodging investment worldwide.  “REITs are likely to be less active buyers as their share
prices are still well below the highs of the summer of 2011,”
Adler said in the statement.  Foreign investors, meanwhile, will stay focused on high-end
properties in gateway cities perceived “as more stable with
higher barriers of entry” for new hotels, he said.  Luxury hotels have outpaced other lodging categories, such
as midscale and economy, during the recovery of the past 24
months. The occupancy rate was 71 percent for the highest-priced
segment of the hotel market from January through November 2011,
compared with 62 percent for all U.S. hotels, according to  Smith
Travel Research Inc.  in Hendersonville, Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  