-- Putin Ally Kudrin Backs Vote Monitoring After Opposition Talks
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-01-17T08:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/putin-ally-kudrin-backs-vote-monitoring-after-opposition-talks.html
Former Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin , a long-time ally of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  who’s
mediating with the opposition, said he supports efforts to
monitor the fairness of the March 4 presidential poll.  Kudrin, writing in a Twitter Inc. posting today after a
round of talks with Putin’s opponents, said he is in favor of
their plan to form a “League of Voters” that will coordinate
election monitoring. He said that negotiations should continue.  Putin, 59, is facing an unprecedented challenge to his 12-
year rule as he seeks to return to the Kremlin in March.
Opposition leaders are planning a major rally in Moscow on Feb.
4, after bringing tens of thousands of people on to the streets
in December protests over alleged fraud in parliamentary polls.
Kudrin, who was fired in September after clashing with President
 Dmitry Medvedev  over plans to increase military spending, has
called for a new parliamentary vote within 18 months and the
dismissal of the country’s election chief.  One of the opposition leaders,  Vladimir Ryzhkov , said
yesterday that the talks with Kudrin broke down because the
authorities had ignored demands for a repeat vote. “We should
step up pressure on the government and get all our demands
fulfilled,” Ryzhkov wrote on his website.  Putin says the Dec. 4 poll that handed a much reduced
majority to his United Russia party was fair, while the
opposition Communists say the party’s share of the vote was
artificially inflated from 30 percent to about 50 percent.  The prime minister, who served the maximum two consecutive
presidential terms allowed by the constitution between 2000 and
2008, needs to win more than 50 percent of votes to avoid a run-
off contest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  