-- Python Imports Banned by U.S. After Harming Florida Everglades Habitats
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-01-17T15:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/python-imports-banned-by-u-s-after-harming-everglades-habitats.html
Imports of Burmese pythons, yellow
anacondas and northern and southern African pythons are being
banned by the U.S. Interior Department, which said the
constrictor snakes threaten endangered native U.S. species.  The department classified the four varieties as injurious
species, a designation that also prohibits owners from
transporting the animals across state lines.  “The Burmese python has already gained a foothold in the
Florida Everglades, and we must do all we can to battle its
spread and to prevent further human contributions of invasive
snakes that cause economic and environmental damage,” Interior
Secretary  Ken Salazar  said today in a statement.  In 2010, the department said it was considering
restrictions on the importation and interstate transport of nine
types of constrictor snakes. Florida lawmakers including U.S.
Senator  Bill Nelson , a Democrat, have sought a ban on sale of
the animals.  Snake breeders lobbied against the proposed rule, saying it
was overly broad and would force small businesses to close.  Valerie Fellows, a spokeswoman for the Interior
Department’s Fish and Wildlife Service, said in an interview
that five varieties remain under consideration as injurious. The
four types of snakes being banned were determined to have a high
overall risk potential for disrupting sensitive ecosystems,
warranting quicker action, Fellows said.  Burmese pythons have killed and eaten “highly endangered”
Key Largo wood rats. Other pythons have preyed on endangered
wood storks, the department said.  While snake owners are allowed to keep their reptiles under
the ban, they can’t take, send or sell them across state lines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  