-- QPR Secures Its First F.A. Cup Victory Since 2001 as Bolton, Leicester Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/qpr-bolton-leicester-millwall-win-f-a-cup-3rd-round-replays.html
Premier League clubs Queen’s Park
Rangers and Bolton advanced to the fourth round of English
soccer’s F.A. Cup, where they’ll be joined by Leicester and
Millwall.  QPR beat Milton Keynes Dons 1-0 on Danny Gabbidon’s goal,
while  Kevin Davies  and  Martin Petrov  scored in Bolton’s 2-0 win
over Macclesfield Town. Jermaine Beckford’s hat trick led
Leicester past Nottingham Forest 4-0 and Millwall routed
Dagenham & Redbridge 5-0 as Darius Henderson scored three times.  All of last night’s matches were replays after the original
third-round games finished tied.  QPR struggled against MK Dons, who play in  England ’s third
tier, before Gabbidon headed in Shaun Wright-Phillips’s corner
kick in the 73rd minute. It was the defender’s first goal since
March 2005, when he played for Cardiff.  It was the first F.A. Cup victory since 2001 for QPR, which
will host west London rival Chelsea in the next round. It was
also the first win for manager  Mark Hughes , who replaced the
fired Neil Warnock on Jan. 10.  Davies and Petrov had first-half goals to lift Bolton to
the home win over Macclesfield, which is ranked 64 places below
Wanderers in League Two. Davies scored in the first minute and
Petrov followed with a goal 25 minutes later.  Bolton, which reached the F.A. Cup semifinals last year,
next hosts Swansea in an all-Premier League tie.  Foxes Ease Through  Leicester took the lead at home over Championship rival
Nottingham Forest in the seventh minute on an own goal from
George Boateng. Beckford doubled the lead in the 30th minute and
completed his hat trick in the opening 12 minutes of the second
half.  The Foxes will next play League Two’s Swindon.  Millwall broke out of its scoring slump in routing Dagenham
& Redbridge to secure an all-Championship matchup with
Southampton. The Lions had scored just once in their past eight
games.  Henderson and Kane each scored once in the first half.
Henderson then had two goals in four minutes early in the second
half for his hat trick and Kane got his second in the 65th
minute.  The third round concludes tonight with two more replays as
Wrexham hosts Brighton and Birmingham visits Wolverhampton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 