-- Questions Republican Candidates Need to Answer: Ramesh Ponnuru
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-01-17T00:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/questions-republicans-must-answer-in-debates-commentary-by-ramesh-ponnuru.html
For a moment there during the ABC
News debate on Jan. 7, it seemed as though moderator George Stephanopoulos was getting ready to ask the Republican
candidates for their views about specific methods of
contraception.  Some vestige of self-restraint on his part kept us,
fortunately, from hearing  Ron Paul ’s view on the relative merits
of intrauterine devices, condoms and natural family planning.  But we haven’t heard much, during the many Republican
presidential debates this campaign, about some issues that
actually are relevant to the presidency. Here are a few
questions I’d like to hear the candidates address.  1. Almost all of you  have pledged  not to raise the debt
ceiling until Congress passes a constitutional amendment to
limit federal spending and make it harder to raise taxes. How
would you get the requisite dozens of Democratic congressmen to
support this amendment? Alternatively, how would you bring the
deficit to zero immediately?  2. All of you have talked about getting illegal immigration
under control. What about  legal immigration ? Should we devote
fewer slots to reuniting extended families and more to
recruiting the highly skilled?  3. Are there any additional steps that should be taken to
encourage or help immigrants to assimilate successfully?  4. Absent an imminent attack on a vital national interest,
does the president have the constitutional authority to launch a
military action without congressional approval?  5. Governor Perry: When you announced your campaign, you
said that one of the reasons you were running was that it is an
injustice that nearly half of tax filers pay no  income tax .
So why does the tax plan you released a few weeks later do
nothing to decrease that figure?  6. Many conservatives say it’s unfair that the highest-
earning 1 percent of Americans pay 40 percent of federal income
taxes. Do you agree? If so, what percentage should they pay?  7. Senator Santorum says declining manufacturing employment
is a problem that the government should seek to reverse.
Manufacturing output has been rising for decades. Do the rest of
you lament that manufacturers require fewer people to produce
more? And are there other sectors of the economy where the
government should encourage inefficiency?  8. Rank the following in order of importance to you: that
energy be cheap, clean or American-made?  9. Congressman Paul, you’ve said that the U.S. has
undergone a coup and that the  Central Intelligence Agency (0112917D)  now
“runs everything.” If that’s true, is there any way that the CIA
will allow you to win the presidency?  10. A follow-up: How can we be sure that you, Congressman
Paul, are not a CIA agent under deep cover?  11. Republicans in  Washington  have long favored a federal
law to place limits on medical-malpractice lawsuits. Should they
get their way, or should states continue to be allowed to set
their own policies on these lawsuits?  12. In recent years, wages haven’t grown even when the
economy has. Why do you think that is? What, if anything, should
the federal government do about it?  13. It has been almost 50 years since the federal
government began its K-12 education-spending programs. What have
we gotten for this money?  14. Governor Romney, does the U.S. have anything positive
to learn from  Europe ?  15. Should the federal government enact a  bankruptcy code 
for state governments as an alternative to bailouts?  16. Is higher education now in “a bubble,” as some contend?
Should federal policy continue to try to increase the number of
people who get  college degrees ? Is there a point of diminishing
returns to this policy?  17. Speaker Gingrich: You have said that the actions of
Mitt Romney’s former company, the private-equity firm Bain
Capital LLC, constituted “looting.” Should there be laws against
such practices?  18. Should Congress act to reduce the discretion of the
 Federal Reserve  in setting monetary policy, and if so, how?  19. Governor Huntsman believes we need to limit the size
and borrowing ability of banks to prevent them from becoming
“too big to fail.” Do the rest of you agree? If not, how would
you make a credible commitment not to bail out financial
companies?  20. What would you do with  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ? What
should the federal role in the housing market be?  21. When you say you want to “replace” the Dodd-Frank
financial-regulation law, Governor Romney, what do you have in
mind?  22. Governor Romney, Senator Santorum: You have pledged
that  Iran  will not go nuclear on your watch. Does that pledge
come with a money-back guarantee?  There are still several more debates scheduled. That should
be plenty of time to ask questions of the would-be presidents
before getting to the issue of boxers versus briefs.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  