-- Rand Rises to Six-Week High as China Growth Boosts Stocks, Metal Prices
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-01-17T15:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/rand-climbs-for-second-day-as-china-slowdown-boosts-monetary-easing-hopes.html
The rand strengthened to a six-week
high against the dollar after  China ’s gross domestic product
expanded more than economists estimated, boosting stock and
commodity prices.  South Africa ’s currency appreciated as much as 1.4 percent
to 7.9943 per dollar, the strongest level since Dec. 8. It
traded 0.7 percent stronger at 8.0546 per dollar as of 5:08 p.m.
in Johannesburg. Against the euro it climbed 0.3 percent to
10.2475, headed for a four-month high.  China’s economy  expanded 8.9 percent in the three months
ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said,
beating the 8.7 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The
Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of raw materials gained the most in
two weeks and South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  rose to a
record, led by miners including Anglo American Plc and BHP
Billiton Ltd. China is the biggest buyer of South African  raw
materials .  The Chinese growth data “is an ideal result in that growth
is fast enough to dissipate fears of a hard landing but slow
enough to generate scope for monetary easing,”  John Cairns , a
currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said
in e-mailed comments. “Our call for a strong rand is back on.”  Copper advanced to near a four-month high in  New York ,
while the prices of other metals including nickel and platinum
gained. Raw materials account for about 60 percent of South
Africa’s exports.  “Commodity prices are substantially firmer this morning,
gold and other metals in particular, while Asian markets are in
the black,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at Standard
Bank Group Ltd. In Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
“These indicators imply that risk is back on, and the rand is
thus likely to enjoy further strength today.”  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 gained for a
second day, driving the yield down three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 8.03 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net 
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  