-- Real Yields Turn Positive for First Time in Almost Two Years: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-01-17T07:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/real-yields-turn-positive-for-first-time-in-almost-two-years-india-credit.html
India ’s inflation rate fell below
bond yields for the first time in two years as international
investors add to record holdings of the nation’s debt.  Wholesale-price  increases  slowed to 7.47 percent in
December from 9.11 percent a month earlier, the Commerce
Ministry said yesterday.  Yields (GIND10YR)  on 10-year government notes were
little changed at 8.21 percent in Mumbai, according to the
central bank’s trading system. The nation’s bonds have returned
1.42 percent this month, the best performance among 10 Asian
markets tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Global funds have boosted ownership of rupee debt by $3
billion this month to $29.1 billion, Securities & Exchange Board
of India data show, on speculation slowing inflation will prompt
policy makers to reduce borrowing costs after seven increases
last year. The central bank will cut its  repurchase rate  by 50
basis points to 8 percent by year-end as inflation decelerates
to about 7 percent, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “The positive real yield will further attract foreign fund
inflows,” Vivek Rajpal, a fixed-income strategist at Nomura,
 Japan ’s biggest brokerage, said in an interview yesterday.
“Expectations of rate cuts mean that bonds can rally more.”  Rajpal predicts that the benchmark yield will drop to 8
percent by March.  Global funds have added to  holdings  of Indian bonds every
day this year after raising ownership by a record $3.9 billion
last month, according to official data. Inflation, which has
slowed for three straight months, will be between 6 percent and
7 percent by the end of March, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee 
said in an e-mailed statement after the release of the wholesale
prices data. The report comes a week before the  Reserve Bank of
India  meets to review rates and monetary policy.  Better Returns  The inflation-adjusted yield on the nation’s generic 10-
year bonds was 74 basis points, or 0.74 percentage point,
yesterday, the first time investors earned a so-called real
yield on the securities since Dec. 31, 2009. The real yield in
 China  was minus 66 basis points, while  South Korea ’s was minus
40.  Yields in India on benchmark 8.79 percent notes due in
November 2021 have dropped 12 basis points since Jan. 5, when
central bank Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said at a conference
in  Singapore  that India’s “monetary cycle has peaked.”  “The drop in inflation is definitely good news for the
bond markets,” said  Anoop Verma , a fixed-income trader at
Development Credit Bank in Mumbai. “The rally in bonds is
likely to be sustained with inflation easing further and on
expectation of cuts by the central bank around March.”  Verma expects the 10-year bond yield will drop to 8 percent
by the end of the first quarter.  Wait and See  The  Reserve Bank  will await more data before cutting rates,
according to HSBC Global Asset Management, a unit of  Europe ’s
biggest bank that oversees $25 billion in Asian fixed-income
assets.  “At this point, with just one inflation number, I wouldn’t
be optimistic on bonds,” Gordon Rodrigues, a Hong Kong-based
investment director at HSBC Global Asset, said in an interview
yesterday. “I would expect the central bank to see at least two
or three numbers to draw a conclusion.”  The rupee’s plunge in 2011 will add to price pressures in
the coming months, Sujan Hajra, a Mumbai-based chief economist
at brokerage Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd., said in an
interview yesterday. The rupee slid 16 percent last year, the
most among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies. India’s currency
strengthened 0.7 percent to 51.0350 per dollar today.  Yield Allure  The cost of  insuring  the debt of  State Bank of India  using
credit-default swaps has dropped 10 basis points this year to
385 basis points, according to CMA, which is owned by  CME Group
Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately
negotiated markets. Some investors consider the lender a proxy
for the nation, which doesn’t have dollar debt. The swaps pay
the buyer face value for the underlying securities should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  India’s relatively high yields are adding to the allure of
the nation’s bonds, according to Nomura. The  difference  in
yields between rupee-denominated notes due in a decade and
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries was 632 basis points today. The
comparable yield premium on Chinese securities was 155 and South
Korea’s 102.  “The undercurrent is for a softer interest-rate regime,”
 Roy Paul , deputy general manager of treasury at  Federal Bank
Ltd. (FB)  in Mumbai, said in an interview yesterday. “Investors may
boost their bond holdings on positive real yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  