-- Treasuries Fall as Stocks Rally Before Fed Report Shows Manufacturing Grew
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-17T12:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/treasury-yield-is-20-basis-points-from-record-low-before-greek-debt-talks.html
Treasuries fell, trimming last
week’s gain, as stocks advanced and economists said a U.S.
central-bank report today will show manufacturing in the  New
York  region expanded.  Longer-maturity debt led losses after a German report
showed investor confidence climbed by a record amount this
month, easing concern the European debt crisis is worsening.
Treasuries also dropped after Chinese data showed growth in the
world’s second-biggest economy was stronger than analysts
predicted, reducing demand for safer assets.  “There’s a risk-on move and that’s weighing on
Treasuries,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income strategist
at Rabobank International in London. “Economic data is pointing
to a modest recovery in the U.S.,” reducing investor appetite
for a haven.  The 10-year  yield  increased three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.89 percent at 7:09 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
due in November 2021 declined 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 31/32. The 30-year yield added three basis points
to 2.94 percent.  The Stoxx  Europe  600  Index (SXXP)  gained 0.8 percent, and futures
on the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPA)  climbed 0.9 percent.  Higher Yields  “Yields will move higher through the year” for
Treasuries, said  Peter Jolly , head of market research at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “The economy will hold
together in the U.S. The Chinese economy is slowing, but it’s
not collapsing by any stretch.”  The 10-year yield will rise to 3.1 percent by year-end,
Jolly said. It set a record low of 1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Empire State
manufacturing  index (SXXP)  advanced to an eight-month high of 11 in
January, based on a Bloomberg News survey of economists before
the report today.  China ’s GDP expanded 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter from
a year earlier, the statistics bureau said, versus 8.7 percent
projected by a separate Bloomberg survey. The report increased
expectations Premier Wen Jiabao will favor easier monetary
policy to spur growth in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research said its
index of German investor and analyst expectations surged to
minus 21.6 from minus 53.8 in December. The gain of 32.2 points
is the biggest since ZEW started the index in December 1991.  Fed Buying  The Fed is scheduled to buy as much as $2.75 billion of
bonds due from February 2036 to November 2041 today, according
to the New York branch’s  website . The purchases are part of the
central bank’s program to replace $400 billion of shorter-
maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs.  The three-month  London interbank offered rate  dropped for
an eighth day today to 0.562 percent, indicating banks are
becoming more willing to lend to each other. That matches the
longest run of daily declines since May 31, 2011.  Demand for highly rated government bonds during Europe’s
debt crisis will support Treasuries in the early part of 2012,
said Hiroki Shimazu, an economist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
in  Tokyo .  “Treasuries may rally for the next couple of weeks because
people are fearful of a meltdown in the euro region,” he said.  For the first time, Wall Street’s biggest bond-trading
firms  hold more  U.S. Treasuries than corporate securities,
signaling concern the economy’s rebound will be too slow to
sustain record demand for riskier assets.  Treasuries Beat Bunds  The 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the central
bank  held  $74.7 billion of Treasuries as of Dec. 28, compared
with $61.1 billion of  company debt , according to Fed data.  U.S. debt  due in 10 years or longer has advanced 31 percent
in the past 12 months, the most among 174 government-bond
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, after accounting for currency
changes. Same-maturity German bunds gained 15 percent.  Greek officials are scheduled to meet creditors tomorrow to
discuss the size of investor losses in a proposed debt swap.
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co. said in a Twitter post Jan. 15 that
the nation is heading for default.  The European Financial Stability Facility, the euro area’s
bailout fund, lost its top  credit rating  from  Standard & Poor’s 
yesterday after France and  Austria  were stripped of their AAA
grades on Jan. 13.  Support Level  Declines in Treasury futures may be tempered as the price
approaches a level of so-called support, according to UBS AG.  “U.S. 10-years are bullish while they trade above the 130
29/32 low and as long as this remains the case the expectation
is for limited corrections and further price strength,”  Richard
Adcock , head of fixed-income technical strategy in London, wrote
in an e-mailed report today. That level represents the low of
Jan. 13, he wrote.  The 10-year futures contract for March delivery dropped
4/32 to 131 10/32.  Investors held to their bearish stance on Treasuries in a
weekly survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP, a unit of the world’s
largest interdealer broker. Ried’s index on the market outlook
through June fell to 44 for the seven days ended Jan. 13 from 45
the week before. A figure below 50 shows investors expect
Treasuries to decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  