-- Billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance Taps Chinese Loans After Stock Plunge
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 2012-01-18T06:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/reliance-communications-to-borrow-1-18-billion-from-china-banks.html
Indian billionaire Anil Ambani is
tapping Chinese lenders for a second time in less than a year
after a decline in the value of his flagship company left him
with almost $1 billion of convertible bonds to repay by March.  Ambani’s  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  yesterday said it
will borrow $1.18 billion from lenders including  China
Development Bank Corp (SDBZ) .,  Export-Import Bank of China  and
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China . The proceeds will help
India’s second-largest mobile-phone operator redeem convertible
debt maturing on March 1. The shares are trading 87 percent
below the price at which the  notes  can be switched to equity.  The Chinese loans will help Reliance Communications cap its
interest expense for the borrowing at 5 percent even after
dollar funding costs for Indian companies  rose  171 basis points
in 2011 to 6.83 percent, according to HSBC Holdings Plc. The
credit helps  China  expand its role in the world’s second-fastest
growing major economy that’s also competing with the north Asian
nation for resources, said Erica Downs, a fellow at The
 Brookings Institution .  “Without the Chinese, they would have been in big
trouble,” said Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based  fund manager  at
Raiffeisen Capital Management that oversees about $1.1 billion
of emerging-market assets. “The Chinese are the last lenders
left that will lend them large amounts of money at reasonable
 interest rates .”  Reliance Communications  shares  gained 1.9 percent to 90.5
rupees in Mumbai at 10:30 a.m., compared with a conversion price
of 661 rupees for the debt. The shares declined 52 percent in
dollar terms last year making it the  worst-performing  stock in
the 28-member MSCI AC Asia Pacific, excluding-Japan,
Telecommunication Services Index.  ‘Buying Interest’  The yield on the Mumbai-based company’s notes issued in
2007 dropped 19 percentage points to 11.78 percent yesterday,
the lowest level since June 9, according to prices provided by
Barclays Plc. Indian companies have a record $5.3 billion of
convertible notes maturing this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “If Reliance Communications had defaulted, the whole
Indian convertible market would have collapsed,” Raj Kothari, a
convertible trader at Sun Global Investments Ltd. in  London ,
said in a telephone interview. “Sentiment has improved in
Indian convertibles and we are seeing buying interest from
investors.”  The loan to Reliance Communications will have an
“extended” seven-year maturity with an interest cost of 5
percent, according to yesterday’s statement.  ‘Balance Sheet Stretched’  The transaction “can at best be seen as an indicator of
Reliance Communications ability to raise debt in the market, or
a stamp of confidence in Reliance Communications by the Chinese
banks,” Rohit Chordia and Shyam M, analysts at Kotak
Institutional Equities, wrote in a note to clients today. The
company’s “balance sheet remains stretched.”  The company plans to sell assets to repay debt. Reliance
Communications plans to raise as much as $1.5 billion through a
Singapore listing of its FLAG Telecom submarine cable assets,
said a person with knowledge of the matter, declining to be
identified because the process is private.  The company, which had its  credit rating  cut one notch to
the third-highest level by  ICRA Ltd. (ICRA) , the local unit of Moody’s
Investors Service in June, has $4.8 billion of debt due by 2021,
Bloomberg data show.  Reliance Communications’  earnings before tax  would have
slumped 50 percent in the year ending March had the  mobile-
phone operator refinanced its debt at the 12 percent rate that
AAA-rated corporates have to pay on rupee-denominated loans,
Edelweiss Securities Ltd. wrote in a note to clients on Nov. 22  Chinese Equipment  Ambani sought help from Chinese lenders last year as well.
Reliance Communications on March 9 said it will borrow 87
billion rupees ($1.7 billion) from a group led by  China
Development Bank  to refinance the purchase of third-generation
airwaves and buy equipment.  Ambani’s  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  on Sept. 30 got approval from
India’s central bank to borrow $1.1 billion from Chinese lenders
to build a 3,960-megawatt power project. Ambani’s companies have
agreed to borrow as much as $15 billion from lenders in the
north Asian nation.  Reliance Communications used most of the loans to repay
costly debt, according to a Dec. 15, 2010, statement. The rest
is being used to buy Chinese-made equipment, including $600
million for telecommunications gear from Huwaei Technologies Co.
and  ZTE Corp. (000063) , the company said.  Chinese Goals  Ambani signed an agreement in October 2010 to borrow as
much as $12 billion from Chinese banks to buy power equipment
from Shanghai Electric Group for Reliance Power even as  India ’s
power ministry endorsed a plan last month to triple import duty
to help local manufacturers compete with Chinese rivals.  “Chinese banks try and balance two goals to expand their
loan portfolio and if that can happen while supporting Chinese
diplomacy, then it’s even better,” Downs, a fellow at the John
L. Thornton China Center at the Washington, D.C.-based Brookings
Institution, said on Jan. 11. “CDB, as a  state bank , think of
themselves as a sort of development finance corporation, and
borrowers see them as a lender of last resort.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  