-- Renaissance Starts First Hedge Fund in Five Years to Trade Stocks, Futures
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-01-17T16:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/renaissance-starts-first-hedge-fund-in-five-years-to-trade-stocks-futures.html
Renaissance Technologies LLC, the
$20 billion investment firm founded by  Jim Simons , is starting a
new hedge fund, its first in five years, to trade stocks and
futures, according to a document sent to potential investors.  Renaissance, based in East Setauket,  New York , uses
computer models to decide when to buy and sell. It already runs
the $7 billion Renaissance Institutional Equities Fund and the
$4 billion Renaissance Institutional Futures Fund, along with a
third fund that is open only to the firm’s employees.  The new fund, the Renaissance Institutional Diversified
Alpha Fund, is scheduled to open in March and will start out
trading stocks listed on U.S. exchanges as well as futures and
forwards, according to the document. It may add other assets
classes later on.  The decision to start a new fund comes a little more than a
year after  Peter Brown  and Robert Mercer, co-chief executive
officers and former International Business Machines Corp.
language-recognition specialists, took over from Simons, 73, who
retired in 2010. The equities and futures funds, which produced
mediocre returns in 2008 and 2009, rebounded in the last two
years. The equities fund, known as RIEF, jumped 35 percent last
year, and the futures fund climbed 3 percent, according to a
person briefed on the returns who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Renaissance, declined
to comment.  Unlike the equities fund, which is designed to outperform
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index by 4 percentage points to 6
percentage points, the new fund won’t be measured against a
benchmark. Its swings in performance are also expected to be
greater than RIEF’s, according to the document.  Lower Fees  If the new fund had been operating since 1998, it would
have produced an annualized return of 17.55 percent, according
to the document. Since August 2005, RIEF has climbed 7.4
percent, compared with 2.4 percent for the  S&P 500 . The futures
fund, known as RIFF, increased 4.4 percent since it started in
October 2007.  Renaissance will charge investors a 1 percent management
fee and a 10 percent performance fee for the new fund, about
half the average rate for a hedge fund.  Renaissance’s best-performing fund is the Medallion fund,
with about $9 billion. That fund, open only to employees, has
returned more than 35 percent annualized over a 20-year span.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  