-- Republicans Who Didn’t Serve in Military Draw Veteran Support
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-01-17T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/republicans-who-didn-t-serve-in-military-draw-veteran-support.html
The military is revered in  South
Carolina , home to eight bases, the Citadel military college and
veterans who comprise 15 percent of the voting population.  Yet polls show that in the U.S. Republican presidential
primary two candidates without any personal military experience,
 Mitt Romney  and  Newt Gingrich , are running stronger than two
veterans,  Ron Paul  and  Rick Perry .  A Jan. 15 Insider Advantage state poll showed Romney ahead
with 32 percent and Gingrich in second with 21 percent. Support
for Paul and former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  stood at
14 and 13 percent, respectively, and Perry trailed at 5 percent.  “Perceived weakness, military inexperience, is not such a
weakness this time given the economic climate,” said Peter
Feaver, who served as director for Defense Policy and Arms
Control at the National Security Council during the Clinton
administration, in a telephone interview.  Four years ago, Nolan Mole, a retired Air Force pilot,
picked Arizona Senator John McCain instead of Romney in the
party’s presidential primary because the former was a hero in
the  Vietnam  War while his rival was seen as a “draft dodger”
for seeking deferment in the Vietnam era.  “That stuff was a bigger deal back then, but it don’t
matter as much now,” said Mole, 65, in a Jan. 11 interview at
Crybabies Tavern, a favorite of veterans near the Marine Corps
Air Station in Beaufort, South Carolina. He’s come round to
Romney, he said, because the former Massachusetts governor is
the only Republican this year who “can take it all the way.”  Vietnam Deferments  Romney, 64, winner of the Iowa caucuses and New Hampshire
primary, avoided serving in Vietnam after obtaining deferments
on academic and then religious grounds. At the time, full-time
students couldn’t be conscripted, and Mormon missionaries could
also delay military service.  After a year at  Stanford University  in  California , Romney
went to  France  as a 20-year-old “minister of religion” for 2-
1/2 years, between July 1966 and February 1969, and returned to
complete his studies at  Brigham Young University  in Provo,  Utah ,
in 1971. Ineligible for other deferments after graduating, his
name was entered in the 1970 draft lottery and his number wasn’t
called.  None of Romney’s five sons, all born between 1970 and 1981,
has served in the military.  Santorum Record  Santorum, 53, who came in second in the Iowa caucuses and
is being backed by Republican religious leaders, was 16 when the
last of the U.S. troops pulled out of Vietnam in 1975 -- two
years after the draft ended. As a senator, he spent eight years
on the Armed Services Committee.  The military backgrounds of the candidates surfaced in  New
Hampshire  during a Jan. 7 debate when Paul called Gingrich a
“chicken hawk” for advocating policies that would send troops
into combat zones while failing to serve himself.  Gingrich, 68, said he “never asked for deferment. I was
married with a child. It was never a question.” He also pointed
out that he grew up in a military family; his stepfather served
27 years in the U.S. Army.  Paul, 76, who served as an Air Force doctor between 1963
and 1965, countered: “When I was drafted, I was married and had
two kids, and I went.”  According to his military records, Gingrich registered for
the draft in 1961 when he turned 18. The draft board contacted
him two years later, by which time the law had been amended and
it was no longer compulsory for fathers to serve.  Gingrich Record  When asked about not serving, Gingrich said in a 1985
interview in the Wall Street Journal, “part of the question I
had to ask myself was what difference would I have made. No one
felt this was the battle-line on which freedom would live or
die.”  Paul has  raised  more money from active members of the armed
forces than all of his Republican rivals combined, according to
the Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics, which
tracks political giving. He collected $95,567 between January
and September, according to the latest available statistics.
Romney raised $13,300, Gingrich $4,900 and Santorum $750.  Still, the Texas congressman’s positions on defense issues
are outside the Republican mainstream. He would bring all troops
home, end sanctions against  Iran  and stop all U.S. foreign aid,
including to  Israel . Paul has vowed to cut $800 billion from the
 defense budget  in four years.  Military Cuts  In a candidates’ debate last night, Paul was asked about
whether his proposed cuts would lead to job losses in a state
with one of the highest unemployment rates at 9.9 percent.  “I want to cut military money. I don’t want to cut defense
money. ” he said. “Just because you spend a billion dollars on
an embassy in  Baghdad , bigger than the Vatican, you consider
that defense spending. I consider that waste.”  Perry and Paul both boasted of their military service with
Perry saying, “I lived through a reduction of force once, and I
saw the result of it in the sands of Iran in 1979. Never
again.” Paul responded to say: “I, too, served in the  Air
Force  for five years during the height of the  Cold War ” and
therefore “I’ve had a little bit of experience.”  Brian Frank, 36, from Gaffney, South Carolina, respects
Paul’s time in the military and his unorthodox policy proposals.  “All conflicts can be ended through talking and I do not
want to see any kid having to die when he doesn’t have to,”
Frank, who left the Army in 2000 after serving seven years as a
regular soldier, said in a telephone interview on Jan. 13.  ’Mobilized’ Voters  Frank is a minority in a state where veterans are “easily
identified and mobilized” and the rhetoric that appeals to them
is “part and parcel of conservative values about sacrifice and
volunteerism, support of country, citizenship,” according to
Dave Woodard, a political science professor at Clemson
University in Clemson, South Carolina, and a Republican
political consultant.     Perry, 61, was counting on his stint as an Air Force pilot
in the 1970s to appeal to South Carolina voters. He’s run ads
featuring veterans such as Dan Moran, a former captain in the
U.S. Marines who survived the 2004 assault on Fallujah,  Iraq ,
that left half of his body with third-degree burns.  Jonathan Smith, 38, a former Marine, said he is paying more
attention to whether candidates sound credible on national
security rather than them having worn the uniform.  “A background in the military does not necessarily mean
you know what you are talking about,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Columbia, South Carolina at  fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Charleston, South Carolina at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  