-- RIM Gains on Report Samsung May Be Interested in Making Bid
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-01-17T21:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/rim-climbs-on-report-samsung-may-be-interested-in-buying-blackberry-maker.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, rose 8 percent after a report that
 Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co. may be interested in buying the company.  RIM  advanced  to $17.47 at the close in  New York . Samsung
may be interested in buying RIM, and no deal has been made
because Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM is asking too much, the blog
 BGR reported  today, without identifying its sources.  An acquisition of RIM, whose stock fell 75 percent last
year amid market-share losses, would give Samsung an operating
system that would help it differentiate from competition as it
seeks to stay ahead of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Samsung now makes phones based
on Google Inc.’s Android software and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows
Phone, operating systems also used by rivals such as HTC Corp.  “This has been speculated before, and it does have logic
to it in the sense that Samsung has no viable high-end
smartphone operating system, and increasingly reselling Android
or Windows Phone is being viewed as a commodity business,” said
 Tavis McCourt , a Morgan Keegan and Co. analyst in Nashville,
 Tennessee .  Tenille Kennedy, a spokeswoman for RIM, and Brett White, a
spokesman for Samsung, both declined to comment.  At about $9.2 billion, RIM’s market capitalization is a
fraction of Samsung’s $133 billion. Short of an acquisition, RIM
could strike a technology-licensing deal with Samsung, McCourt
said.  Takeover Speculation  RIM’s new BlackBerry models with touch screens and upgraded
browsers, introduced last year, have failed to stop customers
from opting for the iPhone and Android devices. The slump in the
company’s share price prompted investment firm Jaguar Financial
Corp. to call for RIM to split into separate companies, seek a
buyer and shake up its management.  RIM’s stock has jumped at least 5 percent more than 10
times since the beginning of August on speculation a decline in
its valuation will invite a takeover.  The company’s share of U.S. mobile-phone subscribers in the
three months through November  dropped  to 6.5 percent from 7.1
percent in the previous quarter, according to research firm
ComScore Inc. Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , increased to
25.6 percent from 25.3 percent, and Apple gained 1.4 percentage
point to 11.2 percent.  Samsung said this week it is seeking to raise money through
its first overseas bonds since 1997. The company, a supplier to
Apple, plans to expand production capacity at a Texas factory
making chips used in mobile devices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  