-- Rio Tinto Reports Record Iron Ore Output
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-01-17T05:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/rio-tinto-reports-record-iron-ore-output.html
Rio Tinto Group, the third-largest
mining company, said fourth-quarter iron ore production climbed
to a record, driven by expansions at its mines and ports in
 Australia ’s Pilbara region.  Output rose to 51.2 million metric tons from 50.1 million 
tons a year earlier, London-based Rio said today in a statement. 
That compares with a 52 million-ton estimate from RBC Capital 
Markets and 49.6 million tons from Credit Suisse Group AG.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s third-biggest iron
ore producer, today reported a 45 percent jump in shipments and
forecast a rebound in demand from  steel mills  in China. Asian
shares rose as China’s slowest economic growth in more than two
years bolstered expectations for an easing in monetary policy.  “Iron ore production was slightly ahead of forecast,”
 Lyndon Fagan , a Sydney-based resources analyst for Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said by phone. “RBS remains positive on 
 China ’s GDP growth.”  Rio gained 1.3 percent to A$65.70 in Sydney trading, its 
highest close in more than a month.  In December, China’s steel output expanded 0.7 percent from 
a year earlier to 52.16 million tons, the National Bureau of
Statistics said today. That’s up 4.6 percent from November,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A projected steel
output rebound in China will be positive for iron ore and coal,
Credit Suisse said in a report this month.  Pilbara Expansion  The expansion of output in the Pilbara to 283 million tons
a year by the end of 2013 remains on track, the company said.
That is expected to rise to 353 million tons by the end of the
first half 2015, it said. Total  capital spending  across the
company this year is likely to rise above the current target of
$15 billion, Rio said.  “This was another record-breaking year in the Pilbara with
both quarterly and full-year iron ore production and shipments
beating previous achievements, as our expansion program
continues apace,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese said in
the statement. “Across the group, production has bounced back
from the severe weather conditions experienced in the first
half.”  Production of mined copper in the quarter fell 26 percent
to 137,000 tons because of lower grades and strikes at the
Grasberg mine in  Indonesia , Rio said. Aluminum, the company’s
third-biggest earner in 2010, was unchanged at 961,000 tons,
while coking coal output rose 16 percent to 2.64 million tons.  Sales of iron ore and coal will account for about 90
percent of Rio’s earnings for 2011, Credit Suisse analyst Paul McTaggart said in a Jan. 16 note. Miners may see lower profit in
2012 as world economic growth slows, said Deutsche Bank AG.  “It is fair to say that global growth has been lower than
we expected 6 months ago,” Deutsche Bank analysts Rob Clifford,
Grant Sporre and Gaetan De Buyer said in a Jan. 9 report. “We
now see 2012 as a year of declining earnings for the miners.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  