-- Rising Middle Class Fuels Global Energy Surge: Catherine Wolfram
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   W o l f r a m
-- 2012-01-17T16:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/rising-middle-class-fuels-global-energy-surge-catherine-wolfram.html
A gentleman with a thick Georgia
drawl once told me that he could explain the erosion of
communism in China with two words: “AY-ur conditioning.”  The citizens of the People’s Republic, he said, looked at
their compatriots in  Hong Kong  and decided that their lives
would be much improved if they, too, could afford such modern
conveniences.  Running an air conditioner requires electricity, which can
deliver a host of other benefits as well. As electrification
spreads, more people can pump clean water, refrigerate food and
medications, provide light for children to study at night,
connect to the Internet, and do many other things that enhance
health, education and security. Countries such as Brazil, China
and  India  are expanding their grids and bringing electricity to
many of the about 1.5 billion people (more than one-fifth of the
world’s population) who currently live without it.  Yet, when we think exclusively about poverty alleviation
and economic development, we often ignore the resulting surge in
energy use. If we fail to take account of these increases, we
will have to contend with a global energy problem much larger
than we can now imagine.  Income Growth  In recent  research , my co-authors and I observed that
energy consumption and the energy needed to manufacture goods
increases sharply when households move out of poverty into the
middle class. This is true in every country we analyzed. On the
other hand, when households move from extreme poverty to just
being poor, energy use doesn’t increase by much, because these
households typically use their growing incomes to consume more
calories or higher quality food. Similarly, when households move
from the middle to upper-middle class, their energy use doesn’t
change much.  Our  research  also showed that in countries that improved
the living standards of the poor, a 1 percent increase in gross
domestic product leads to a 1 percent or higher increase in
total energy consumption. Conversely, in countries where the
upper-middle class or the wealthy benefit the most from growth,
a 1 percent increase in GDP increases energy consumption by only
about half as much.  This suggests that $1 of GDP growth will have very
different implications for energy use depending on what type of
household consumes it. When a country’s economic growth elevates
many people into the middle class, its energy consumption grows
quickly.  Going back to the example of air conditioning in  China , we
see that the share of Chinese families living in poverty has
declined dramatically, while sales of air conditioners have
skyrocketed. For example, in urban China in 1995, there were
eight air-conditioning units for every 100 households; by 2009,
there were 106 units for every 100 households.  This mirrors trends in the rest of the world. As households
come out of poverty and join the middle class, the share of
their budget devoted to food declines and the share of their
budget devoted to modern conveniences such as refrigerators,
fans, water heaters, washing machines, motor scooters, cars and
air conditioners goes up. Many of the goods the rising middle
class purchases require energy to use and to manufacture.  Consider the case of  Brazil , where the government embarked
on an aggressive and hugely successful anti-poverty program
called “Bolsa Familia.” Among Brazilian households in the
lowest 25 percent of the  income distribution , only half owned
refrigerators in 1999. By 2009, that number increased to 85
percent.  Rising Prices  The arrival of all these new energy users will have
profound implications for the price of oil, coal and other
fuels, as well as for concentrations of greenhouse-gas emissions
in the atmosphere and the resulting climate change. A poor
Brazilian family’s decision to buy a refrigerator or a Chinese
family’s decision to buy an air conditioner may seem remote and
inconsequential. Yet, when millions of other families around the
world buy refrigerators and air conditioners simultaneously,
there will be real impacts on prices at the local gas station
and on our prospects for controlling  climate change .  Unfortunately, this pattern indentified in our research
isn’t captured well by the most prominent energy forecasts. For
example, in the case of China, the  Energy Information
Administration ’s five-year forecast for energy consumption in
2005 fell short by almost 25 percent. These forecasts probably
underpredict future medium-run growth in energy demand, as well.
To develop more accurate forecasts, we need to account for
growth driven by the rising middle class.  In the coming decades, a substantial fraction of the world
population is poised to go through a Chinese and Brazilian-style
transformation. As household incomes grow and programs to bring
electricity to more homes succeed, the growth in energy demand
over the next decade will be sizable -- perhaps startlingly so.  There is no doubt that the rise of the global middle class
is a positive development. Yet, if we don’t forecast and plan
accordingly, it could lead to dire unexpected environmental
consequences and cause dramatic increases in energy prices that
ultimately diminish the very livelihoods we are trying to
improve.  ( Catherine Wolfram  is associate professor of business
administration at the Haas School of Business at the  University
of California , Berkeley, where she is co-director of the Energy
Institute. She is a contributor to  Business Class . The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Catherine Wolfram at  wolfram@haas.berkeley.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 