-- Rockrose Said in Talks to Buy Manhattan Office Tower for $370 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/rockrose-said-in-talks-to-buy-manhattan-office-tower-for-370-million.html
Rockrose Development Corp. is in
negotiations to buy a midtown Manhattan office tower from  Larry
Silverstein  and the California State Teachers’ Retirement System
for $370 million, a person with knowledge of the talks said.  Rockrose, primarily a Manhattan apartment landlord, may
reach an agreement with the owners of 575 Lexington Ave. in 60
to 90 days, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter is private. The 35-story tower was the
subject of a foreclosure filing last year by representatives of
the property’s lenders.  A deal for $370 million would value the building at about
$500 a square foot, the person said. The partnership of
Silverstein, the developer of towers at the  World Trade Center
site , and the pension system known as Calstrs paid $416 million
for the property in 2006, as real estate prices headed toward a
peak, according to New York City records.  Tenants include  Cornell University  and the law firm  Boies
Schiller & Flexner LLP . The building has about $257.1 million of
debt in a securitized first mortgage, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The owners made a $75 million payment in October
on the debt, which was originally $325 million.  The purchase price is well above “in-place collateral
valuation,” Julia Tcherkassova, a Barclays Capital analyst,
said yesterday in a research note. “We continue to believe that
the assumption of in-place financing is likely.”  The debt is part of commercial mortgage-backed securities
BACM-2007-1 and BACM-2007-2, data complied by Bloomberg show.  Telephone calls to  Bud Perrone , a Silverstein spokesman;
 Ricardo Duran , a Calstrs spokesman; and Paul Januszewski, a
spokesman for New York-based Rockrose, weren’t returned.  The talks were reported yesterday by Real Estate Alert, a
commercial-property newsletter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  