-- Romney Estimates Tax Rate at 15 Percent as Republican Rivals Target Him
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-01-18T17:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/romney-estimates-he-pays-15-tax-rate-as-rivals-challenge-him-on-return.html
Mitt Romney  estimated he pays an
effective tax rate close to 15 percent and said he would release
more details in April if he clinches the Republican presidential
nomination, as his rivals crisscrossed South Carolina working to
prevent that from happening.  Former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum derided Romney,
the front-runner in South Carolina’s Jan. 21 primary, as “the
moderate candidate of the  Wall Street  types” whose agenda is
“timid” and “just a little bit better than what we’ve got”
in President  Barack Obama .  Newt Gingrich , competing with Santorum to stake a claim as
the most viable alternative to Romney, said today he paid a 31
percent effective federal tax rate, after deductions.  “Thirty-one percent of my income belonged to the
government,” he told reporters in Winnsboro,  South Carolina .
Gingrich said he plans to release his 2010 returns tomorrow and
his 2011 forms as soon as they are prepared.  “My goal is not to raise Mitt Romney’s taxes; it’s to let
everybody pay Mitt Romney’s rate,” he said. “Shouldn’t we all
have the option of a flat tax at the same rate he was paying?”  Gingrich, a former U.S. House speaker, yesterday told
reporters in Florence that he’s the only candidate standing
between Romney and the nomination, and “there’s no evidence”
that Santorum could put together a national campaign.  Romney’s Goal  Facing increasing pressure from his rivals, Romney moved to
preserve his lead and blunt any late surge from competitors as
he aimed for a victory in South Carolina -- following wins in
the initial contests in  Iowa  and  New Hampshire  -- to open a path
for him to quickly wrap up his party’s nod.  Today, two of his allies -- former Missouri Senator Jim Talent and former  New York  Representative Susan Molinari -- will
hold a conference call with reporters to brand Gingrich as an
“unreliable leader.”  Speaking in Florence yesterday, Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor, challenged Santorum’s record of
supporting  voting rights  for felons, an issue that matters to
socially conservative voters in the state.  “I hear that Rick Santorum is very animated that the
super-PAC ad says that he’s in favor of felons voting,” Romney
said, referring to a commercial paid for by his allies. “Well
he is!”  He and Santorum were at odds over radio ads in South
Carolina financed by Restore Our Future, a political action
committee that supports Romney while being banned by law from
coordinating with his campaign. The super-PACs have become
influential in the presidential campaign after the  Supreme Court 
and regulators cleared a path for them.  Pork Barrel Projects  The Restore Our Future ad also attacks Santorum as a backer
of wasteful “pork barrel” projects and “amnesty” for illegal
immigrants, concluding, “ Rick Santorum : Big spender, Washington
insider, can’t beat Obama.”  Santorum, who disputes the claims, dismissed as “baloney”
Romney’s contention that by law he can’t call on the group to
stop such attacks. Santorum also told voters in Lexington that
he is better positioned to beat the president.  “Let me assure you, the best chance to win this election
is to not compromise,” he told several dozen voters at the
Flight Deck restaurant. “The country is looking for leadership;
they’re not looking for someone who can manage just a little
better than the guy that’s in there now.”  On the Defensive  Romney was on the defensive over his tax records following
a televised debate this week in which he faced criticism on the
issue. He said yesterday he’d probably release his latest return
during the April tax-filing season if he’s the presumptive
nominee, following the “tradition” in presidential races.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  today called on Romney
to release his returns “sooner rather than later.”  “It’s always better, in my view, to have complete
disclosure, especially when you’re the front-runner,” Christie,
who has campaigned for Romney, said on NBC’s “Today” show.  Romney yesterday told reporters that the effective  tax rate 
he pays is “probably closer to the 15 percent rate than
anything, because my last 10 years, my income comes
overwhelmingly from investments made in the past, rather than
ordinary income or earned annual income.”  Speaking Fees  He also said he had earned “a little bit of income” from
his book, which he donated to charity, and “speakers’ fees from
time to time, but not very much.”  Romney earned almost $375,000 in speaking fees from Feb.
26, 2010, to Feb. 20, 2011, according to his personal financial
disclosure. He reported between $190 million and $250 million in
assets.  Romney spent much of his time yesterday in New York raising
money for his campaign, attending three fundraisers hosted by
some of the biggest names on Wall Street, including  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Stephen Schwarzman.  Back in South Carolina, his opponents jumped on his
reluctance to release his tax forms. Gingrich questioned why
Romney wouldn’t release them before South Carolina’s primary.
“If somebody has a fatal weakness, you better find out about it
before they get the nomination,” he said.  Lifting the Sheets  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  pressed the same argument.  “Everyone who wants to be the president of the  United
States , you better get ready for your sheets to get lifted up
and to look under there and for people to ask questions,” he
told business leaders in Columbia.  Obama’s spokesman said Romney’s tax status would be an
issue in the general election.  Obama “strongly” believes that people who make millions
or billions a year “should not pay a lower effective tax rate
than middle-class Americans,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said at his daily White House briefing yesterday with
reporters.  Romney’s estimate of his tax burden “illuminates” the
issue of whether the wealthiest pay their “fair share,” Carney
said. Obama paid an effective federal tax rate of about 26
percent on his 2010 returns, the most recent available.  Santorum told reporters that he prepares his own tax
returns and, “I don’t know what my effective rate of tax is,
but I’m fairly confident it’s a lot higher than 15 percent.”  The tax flap unfolded as some South Carolina voters who
attended town hall meetings, rallies and candidate forums were
torn over which candidate to choose in a contest that could
offer the final opportunity to derail Romney’s march toward the
nomination. A Jan. 31 primary in  Florida , where Romney leads in
the polls, follows the South Carolina contest.  Conflicted Voters  “Sometimes I think you should vote your conviction, but on
the other hand, if you’re concerned about the direction of the
country, then you want someone who’s electable,” said Cheryl
Moureaux, a retired teacher from Columbia who said she hasn’t
decided between Romney and Gingrich.  Waiting to hear Gingrich address a group of voters in West
Columbia, she said, “I’m not sure he could beat Obama.”  Leo Senn, 69, of Leesville said he was drawn to Santorum’s
message and his “pro-life stance. He’s honest. He’s a man of
integrity. But can he win? Don’t know.”  Senn, a Baptist pastor who is undecided, wore a Harley-
Davidson windbreaker as he sat waiting for Santorum at the
Flight Deck in Lexington, pondering whether to support him in
the face of that uncertainty. He said he mistrusts Romney,
calling him “a political speaker -- he speaks what he thinks
you want to hear.”  Made a Mistake  Larry Grooms, a South Carolina state senator who previously
supported Perry’s presidential bid, switched his allegiance to
Santorum yesterday and made a plea for conservatives to join him
to stop Romney.  “We probably made a mistake here in South Carolina four
years ago by splitting the conservative vote and allowing
somebody who’s not exactly the most conservative member of the
United States Senate to move forward as the nominee,” Grooms
said, referring to Arizona Senator  John McCain , the 2008
Republican standard bearer.  “The conservative votes are split right now,” Grooms told
voters in Lexington, adding, “Now is the time for the
conservative South Carolina vote to coalesce.”  Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, a favorite of Tea Party
activists, said she will vote for Gingrich in hopes of drawing
out the primary season. “If I had to vote in South Carolina in
order to keep this thing going, I’d vote for Newt,” she said,
in an interview on  Fox News . “I would want it to continue. More
debates, more vetting of candidates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Columbia, South Carolina at  
  or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Columbia, South Carolina at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  