-- Romney Tries to Hold Base While Courting Hispanics
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-17T13:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/romney-commercial-contrast-shows-effort-to-hold-base-and-court-hispanics.html
In  Florida , Republican presidential
front-runner  Mitt Romney  is airing campaign commercials in
Spanish telling Hispanics he’s “one of us.” In South Carolina,
he is touting the endorsement of Kris Kobach, an anti-
immigration activist who helped spearhead state laws that have
sparked anger among Latinos.  Romney’s straddle reflects a dilemma he and the Republican
Party face if he becomes the nominee: that his aggressive stance
against illegal immigration during the primaries may become a
drag on efforts to appeal to Hispanics whose votes could
determine the outcome of the presidential race in states such as
Colorado, Virginia and Florida. Nationally, 12.2 million
Hispanics are expected to vote in 2012, a 26 percent increase
over 2008.  “The conventional wisdom and the general fear is right,
that some Republicans, and some of the most important
Republicans with the loudest microphones, are digging a very big
hole for themselves that’s going to be hard to get out of,”
said Tamar Jacoby, a Republican immigration specialist who has
advised  Arizona  Senator  John McCain  and former U.S. House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  on the issue and is neutral in this year’s
race.  Romney “is unfortunately taking one of the harshest
tones,” added Jacoby, who heads ImmigrationWorks USA, a
national federation of employers pressing for new laws on the
issue. “I have some hope for a course correction, but I think
right now, for many Latinos, all they can hear is that off-
putting first statement that really translates into, ‘We don’t
like people who look and sound like you.’”  ‘Follow the Law’  During a debate in Myrtle Beach last night, Romney stood by
his stance, saying he opposes any measure allowing undocumented
workers -- or their children -- a chance to stay in the U.S. or
obtain citizenship quickly.  “We have to follow the law and insist that those who have
come here illegally ultimately return home, apply, get in line
with everyone else” to gain legal status, Romney said. “To
protect our legal immigration system, we have got to protect our
borders and stop the flood of illegal immigration.”  Romney also rejected the idea that his position would
alienate Hispanic voters, provided his message is coupled with a
vow that he will improve economic growth. “As long as we
communicate to the people of all backgrounds in this country
that it can be better, and that America is a land of
opportunity, we’ll get those votes,” he said.  Fastest-Growing Population  That message may resonate with Republican voters in  South
Carolina , which holds its primary Jan. 21 and was home to the
nation’s fastest-growing Hispanic population during the past
decade, according to the  2010 Census . The 148 percent increase
in the number of Hispanics in the state between 2000 and 2010
has prompted anti-immigrant fervor that increases the risk for a
Republican candidate to stray from a restrictive stance on
illegal immigration in a primary.  “The opinions of a good percentage of the base is such
that a candidate would be harmed more by taking a more liberal
or softer stance than they would be advantaged by taking a
harder line and advocating no pathway to citizenship, a border
fence and those kinds of proposals,” said Robert Oldendick, a
University of South Carolina political scientist.  Republican Appeals  Republican presidential candidates of the recent past --
including  Ronald Reagan ,  George H.W. Bush  and  George W. Bush ,
who all won election, and McCain, the unsuccessful 2008 nominee
-- favored creating a pathway to citizenship for some
undocumented workers. All sought to appeal to Hispanic voters, a
constituency that has traditionally backed Democrats.  In 2000, Bush drew about 35 percent of the Hispanic vote
and almost 40 percent in 2004, while McCain -- who backed off
his advocacy for a path to citizenship during his presidential
run -- found support among 31 percent in 2008, according to a
Pew Research Center  report .  The Hispanic population almost doubled over the last decade
in  Nevada ,  North Carolina  and  Virginia , states President  Barack Obama  won in 2008 after they went for Bush in 2004, census data
show. Latino voters, while they lag behind Caucasian and
African-American voting levels, are also stepping up their
political participation.  Nationally, they  accounted  for about 7.4 percent of the
electorate in the 2008 elections, according to the Pew Hispanic
Center. The exit polling found that 67 percent of Hispanics
voted for Obama.  2012 Projection  This year, according to the National Association of Latino
Elected Officials, Hispanic participation could reach 8.7
percent of total votes cast. The group  projects  that at least
12.2 million Hispanics will cast ballots this year.  A Univision News/Latino Decisions  poll  conducted Oct. 21 to
Nov. 1 found Romney drawing support from 24 percent of Latino
voters in a hypothetical match-up with Obama, who won 67
percent.  By contrast, Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, has
attacked his rivals in the primaries for taking more permissive
stances on illegal immigration, painting himself as the
candidate best able to seal the borders and the one who will
crack down hardest on the estimated 12 million people who have
entered the country illegally.  He criticized Texas Governor  Rick Perry  for backing a law
in his state allowing undocumented workers’ children who have
lived in the state for three years and graduated from a local
high school to pay in-state tuition at public universities,
provided they apply for U.S. citizenship.  Gingrich ‘Amnesty’  He branded as “amnesty” Gingrich’s proposal to permit
some law-abiding, English-speaking illegal immigrants who have
been in the country for 25 years and have civic and religious
ties in their communities to become U.S. citizens.  In  Iowa , an outside group that supports Romney, Restore Our
Future, spent more than $909,000 airing 1,694 negative ads on
the issue of immigration, according to data from New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that tracks advertising. Included
among those ads was one that opened with criticism of Perry and
Gingrich and ended with the line: “Gingrich and Perry, too
liberal on immigration.”  After once holding leads in national opinion polls,
Gingrich and Perry came in fourth and fifth, respectively, in
the Iowa caucuses.  Romney, who once described as “reasonable” a George W.
Bush proposal to allow some immigrants to stay in the country
and gain legal status, also says he would veto the so-called
 DREAM Act , which would give young people who were brought here
illegally as children a way to gain legal status if they enroll
in college or enlist in the military.  Kobach Endorsement  He said on Jan. 11 that he was “proud” to earn the
endorsement of Kobach, the Kansas secretary of state who helped
draft illegal-immigrant crackdown laws in Alabama and Arizona
that include provisions obligating police to check on
individuals’ status on “reasonable suspicion” that they are in
the country illegally.  Romney told South Carolinians on Jan. 13 that he would back
their state’s similar law aimed at identifying and acting
against illegal immigrants that is being challenged in federal
court by the Obama administration. “I believe that if the
federal government is failing in its duty to protect our
borders, then states have to take action to protect their
citizens,” Romney said in Hilton Head.  “Ours is the party of legal immigration. We like people
coming here legally, and we want to stop illegal immigration so
we can protect legal  immigration  in this country,” he added to
loud applause.  More Inclusive Tone  Romney and the  Republican Party  may attempt to pivot in the
general election to a more inclusive tone, and advisers are
planning elaborate outreach efforts to appeal to Hispanic voters
through social media.  “Of course immigration -- we need to talk about it, but at
the end of the day, this election is going to be about the
economy,” said Bettina Inclan, named Jan. 11 as the Republican
Party’s director of Hispanic outreach. She contended that
disappointment with Obama is high among Latino voters who have
seen their lives worsen during his term.  “It comes down to swing states and small margins. Hispanic
voters are going to be swing voters in these very important
states,” including Florida, Nevada,  New Mexico ,  Colorado  and
North Carolina, she said.  Those are the very places some party strategists, activists
and immigration experts argue that Republicans will have the
biggest challenge.  Somos Republicans , an Arizona-based Republican grassroots
organization, endorsed Gingrich yesterday, saying that Romney
“takes an non-humanitarian approach to the DREAM Act and legal
immigration reform,” and vowing to “veto Romney at the polls”
in return for his promise to veto the DREAM Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina at  jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  