-- Romney Deflects Rival Attacks on Bain in Debate, Vows Income Tax Release
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-01-17T18:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/romney-to-face-republican-rivals-in-debate-before-south-carolina-primary.html
Republican presidential front-runner
 Mitt Romney  defended his record running the private-equity firm
Bain Capital LLC and suggested he may release his  tax return  in
April during a debate last night against rivals seeking to slow
his march to the party nomination.  Facing off in the first of two debates in South Carolina
this week, Texas Governor  Rick Perry , former U.S. House Speaker
Newt Gingrich, Texas Representative  Ron Paul  and former U.S.
Senator  Rick Santorum  battled to emerge as the strongest
alternative to Romney before the state’s Jan. 21 primary.  Perry criticized Romney for failing to release his tax
returns, saying that Republicans have a right to know whether
he’s a “flawed candidate.”  “As Republicans we cannot fire our nominee in September,”
Perry said at the debate in Myrtle Beach, sponsored by the Fox
News Channel and Wall Street Journal. “We need to know now.”  Romney, pressed on the issue by a debate moderator, said,
“I’m not opposed to doing that,” and that “most likely I am
going to get asked to do that” around the April tax-filing
season and “I’ll keep that open.”  15 Percent Rate  He told reporters this morning in Florence that he’d likely
release his most recent return if he’s the nominee, as has been
the “tradition” among those who have won the nomination in the
past. Asked what effective tax rate he pays, he said “it’s
probably closer to the 15 percent rate,” adding that much of
his income comes from investments subject to that rate.  Gingrich, who intends to release his returns Jan. 19, today
questioned why Romney wouldn’t follow suit before  South
Carolina ’s primary.  “What he said to the people of South Carolina is you’re
not important enough for me to release my income taxes,” he
told reporters in Florence, South Carolina. “If there’s nothing
there, why not release it this week?”  Echoing the point Perry made during the debate, Gingrich
said: “If somebody has a fatal weakness you better find out
about it before they get the nomination.”  A victory by Romney in South Carolina, following his win in
the opening contests of  Iowa  and  New Hampshire , would open a
path for him to quickly wrap up his party’s nod.  Bain Issue  Last night’s forum started with a renewed back-and-forth
skirmish over Bain, the Boston firm co-founded by Romney. Perry
referenced a steel mill in Georgetown, South Carolina, that he
said Bain had “picked over,” and former U.S. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  said Bain left a handful of companies with
“enormous debt” while the firm profited.  “The record is pretty darn good,” Romney responded,
pointing to four other companies in which Bain invested that he
said have created 120,000 jobs.  With less than a week before the primary, the South
Carolina vote will winnow the field and may present the last
opportunity for one of Romney’s rivals to emerge as a viable
alternative. Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. endorsed
Romney yesterday, after announcing his withdrawal from the race.  As they went after Romney last night, his four remaining
challengers attempted to unify the support of the core
Republican primary voters in the state who support the military,
lower taxes, and embrace conservative stances on issues such as
abortion and gun control.  States Rights  Perry accused President Barack Obama’s administration of
seeking to upend the rights of South Carolina by challenging
state voter-identification and immigration laws.  “South Carolina is at war with this federal government and
with this administration,” he said.  He also criticized the White House for what he called an
overreaction to reports that Marines urinated on the corpses of
Taliban fighters.  In an appeal to the military presence in the state,
Gingrich drew applause when he defended the U.S. raid in
 Pakistan , in which al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed,
with a reference to a South Carolinian military hero who went on
to become the nation’s seventh president.  “ Andrew Jackson  had a pretty clear-cut idea about
America’s enemies,” Gingrich said. “Kill them.”  All of the candidates agreed that taxes should be lower.
Paul suggested that Americans shouldn’t have to pay any income
tax. Perry said the highest rate should be 20 percent; Gingrich
said 15 percent, Romney said 25 percent and Santorum said it
should be 28 percent.  Super-PACs  The debate was the 16th held in a primary season marked by
the increasing power of independent political action committees,
known as super-PACs because they can take unlimited donations
from individuals, corporations and unions. The groups, which
aren’t allowed to coordinate with campaigns, are playing a role
for the first time in a presidential election after court and
regulatory decisions cleared a path for them.  Some of the debate’s most heated moments came as candidates
complained about ads being run by the groups.  “It’s probably the biggest hoax since Bigfoot,” Romney
said of an attack ad about Bain that’s being run by a super-PAC
supporting Gingrich.  PAC Ad Attacked  Santorum criticized an ad by a Romney-supporting super-PAC
that he said makes it look like he supports allowing felons to
vote in prison. He pressed Romney for his position on the issue.  Romney, a former governor of  Massachusetts , said that he
didn’t back giving felons the right to vote, even after they’d
served their sentences.  Santorum then accused Romney of failing as Massachusetts
governor to change a state law allowing felons to vote while on
probation or parole.  “If you felt so passionately about this that you are now
going to have somebody go out and criticize me,” Santorum said,
“Then why didn’t you go out and try to change that while you
were governor?”  Gingrich has said that the Romney-backing group, Restore
Our Future, has run false ads against him and last night
chastised Romney for not putting a stop to them.  “This is typical of what both Senator Santorum and I have
complained about with Governor Romney’s super-PAC -- over which
he apparently has no influence, which makes you wonder how much
influence he’d have if he were president,” Gingrich said.  Romney said that by law he can’t coordinate with the
committee, run by his former aides.  “We all would like to have super-PACs disappear,” Romney
said.  Today, he told reporters he nonetheless encouraged the
creation of Restore Our Future and raised money for it as the
only way to get his message out under campaign finance laws.  “It’s not that I don’t support super-PACs,” Romney said.
“We raise money for super-PACs, we encourage super-PACs. Each
candidate has done that.”  He said his campaign strives to “follow the law as it
exists, to make sure that we’re not at a disadvantage in getting
our message out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  