-- Troops to Remain on Nigerian Streets, Defense Minister Says
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-01-17T17:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/troops-to-remain-on-nigerian-streets-defense-minister-says-1-.html
Nigerian soldiers deployed to the
streets of major cities including Lagos, the commercial capital,
following a general strike and protests will remain while
“tension” persists, said Defense Minister Haliru Mohammed.  During the strike called by unions to protest the
government’s removal of fuel subsidies, some groups “wanted to
force issues so there will be violence, then they can say that
the Nigerian government is killing its citizens akin to what is
happening in  Syria ,” Mohammed said today on state-owned Radio
Nigeria. “We decided it was our responsibility to stop
violence, especially when it’s not related to the labor
protest,”  In Nigeria, thousands of protesters marched through the
streets of major cities during the week-long strike, led by
union leaders displaying banners and signs denouncing President
Goodluck Jonathan’s government and demanding the reversal of
fuel-price increases. Nigerian labor unions suspended strikes
and protests yesterday in  Africa ’s top crude producer after
Jonathan announced a limit on the increase in gasoline prices to
97 naira ($0.60) a liter.  Peaceful Conduct  The soldiers will be withdrawn “as soon as things are
brought back to normal,” Mohammed said, without giving details.
Babatunde Fashola, governor of Lagos state, asked Jonathan
yesterday to order the withdrawal of troops in the city, saying
protesters have largely conducted themselves peacefully.  Jonathan, who won a four-year term in April, is already
under pressure to deal with rising religious violence in parts
of  Nigeria ’s north. He declared emergency rule in some states in
the region after a Christmas Day bombing of a church near Abuja
killed 43 people. Islamist militants pose a worse threat to the
country than the 1967-70 civil war, Jonathan said on Jan. 8.  Officials in Africa’s most populous nation blame Boko
Haram, a militant Islamic group that draws inspiration from
 Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, for the surge in attacks.  In Syria, the  United Nations  estimates that more than 5,000
people have died since President Bashar al-Assad began a
crackdown on dissent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  