-- Trump May Scrap Scottish Hotel, Housing on Wind Farm Ruling
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-01-17T18:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/trump-puts-scottish-hotel-housing-on-hold-for-wind-farm-ruling.html
Donald Trump  will scrap plans for a
hotel and housing at his golf resort in Aberdeenshire, Scotland,
if the government approves an offshore wind farm in sight of his
championship course due to open in June.  The European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre, a venture
between  Vattenfall AB (VATFAL) ,  Technip SA (TEC)  and Aberdeen Renewable Energy
Group, applied in August to build 11 next-generation offshore
wind turbines in Aberdeen Bay. The turbines will be as high as a
64-story building, Trump said today in a statement announcing
planning approval for a permanent clubhouse on the site.  “The hotel and other built elements of the resort will not
go ahead if the turbines are approved,” Sarah
Malone, a Trump spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement
today. “If the north-east of  Scotland  is serious about tourism
and creating a global golf destination, it cannot allow the
coastline to be ruined by an ugly industrial park directly off
the shoreline.”  The 65-year-old Trump identified the coastal site at
Balmedie, north of Aberdeen, as a potential 750 million-pound
($1.15 billion) golf resort in 2005 and battled for five years
to gain consent to build two courses, a 450-bed five-star hotel,
500 homes and 950 short-term rental apartments. The second
course is also on hold, Malone said today.  640 Feet High  The turbines are 195 meters (640 feet) high to the tip of
the blade and will be 2.4 kilometers (1.5 miles) out at sea,
according to David Rodger, a spokesman for the venture.  The European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre “is crucial
to the future economy of the region” and “is of strategic
importance to the development of the offshore wind sector for
Scotland, the U.K. and, indeed,  Europe ,” Rodger said in a
statement today.  The first course will open a month ahead of schedule, Trump
Golf Scotland said in an e-mailed statement today.  Aberdeenshire
Council  today approved Trump’s plans for a permanent granite,
slate and glass clubhouse, Trump Golf said.  Trump’s 1,400-acre (567-hectre) Menie Estate where he is
building the resort, is in the constituency of Scottish First
Minister Alex Salmond, who has said he wants to make Scotland a
world leader in renewable energy technology and generate all of
its electricity from renewable sources by 2020.  August Application  An application for the wind farm, known as the EOWDC, was
submitted to the Marine Scotland authority on Aug. 1, when the
consultation process began. A Scottish government spokesman, who
declined to be identified, said the application was received
Aug. 2 and the target for making a determination is nine months
from receipt.  “We don’t believe the EOWDC will be approved when the
facts of the project are known to the public,” Malone said.
“It will ruin the coastline and Scottish tourism.”  The hotel and housing were included to help finance the
development, which Trump has so far funded from his own
resources.  “We have no debt service and the value of our land has
increased exponentially,” Malone said in the statement.
“During these times, developers with cash and no debt always
have options.”  At the time of the public inquiry into the project in 2008,
Trump said he wouldn’t build the hotel and housing until the two
courses were finished.  The second course is “not something we are not looking at
right now,” Malone said.  Trump, whose mother was born on the Scottish island of
Lewis, has built golf resorts in  New York ,  New Jersey ,
 California ,  Florida  and the Grenadine islands in the Caribbean
This month he won a contract to run the Jack Nicklaus-designed
Ferry Point municipal golf course in  New York City  that is due
to open in the fall of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 