-- Russian Father-Son Team Accused of Online Fraud by U.S.
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-17T23:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/russian-father-and-son-charged-by-u-s-with-shopping-sites-bank-card-fraud.html
A Russian father and son from Moscow
were charged by federal prosecutors in  New York  with taking part
in a scheme to gain illegal computer access to U.S. bank
accounts through bogus e-commerce websites.  Vladimir Zdorovenin and his son, Kirill, were named in an
indictment unsealed today in federal court in Manhattan that
alleges they and unknown others controlled U.S.-registered
companies. The two men also operated a business that bought and
sold securities.  The defendants took unauthorized charges on customers’
credit cards, prosecutors said. They also got credit-card
numbers by either buying them from unidentified people who had
obtained them illegally or by so-called malware the defendants
surreptitiously installed on victims’ computers, the U.S.
alleged.  “Mr. Zdorovenin’s egregious behavior illustrated the true
colors of the cyber underground, as he and his son allegedly
defrauded consumers of hundreds of thousands of dollars,”
Janice K. Fedarcyk, the head of the FBI’s New York office, said
in a statement. “This should serve as a stark reminder to
anyone who believes he can commit cyber crime and hide behind
the safety and anonymity of a Russian IP address; you are not
beyond the reach of the FBI.”  Vladimir Zdorovenin was arrested last March in Zurich and
arrived in New York yesterday following his extradition by Swiss
authorities,  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office said
in a statement. His son remains at large, the U.S. said.  At his arraignment today before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Gabriel Gorenstein, Vladimir Zdorovenin pleaded not guilty to
the charges through his lawyer, Sabrina Shroff. She declined to
comment on the case after court. Assistant U.S. Attorney James
Pastore, who is prosecuting the case, said U.S. District Judge
Paul Gardephe scheduled a Jan. 19 conference in the case.  Internet Companies  The Zdorovenins held out U.S.-registered companies Sofeco
LLC, Pintado LLC and Tallit LLC as legitimate Internet merchants
with websites that prosecutors said appeared to offer goods and
services, according to the U.S.  They also engaged in a scheme from June 2004 to February
2005 to gain access to accounts of U.S. victims and attempted to
transfer hundreds of thousands of dollars into bank accounts
they controlled at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and a company identified
as Asia Europe America’s Bank, prosecutors said.  The defendants, through Rim Investment Management Ltd.,
maintained an account at Ameritrade Inc. and bought and sold
securities in publicly traded companies, prosecutors said.  Securities Sold  The two men are accused of committing  securities fraud  by
buying and selling thousands of shares of companies including
 Terayon Communications Systems Inc. (TERN)  and Internet Capital Group
Inc. by trading in the accounts of U.S. victims, prosecutors
said. They bought and sold securities in the same companies in
their Rim account at Ameritrade, manipulating and earning
profits they wouldn’t otherwise have made, the U.S. said.  The indictment describes meetings in July 2004 between the
Zdorovenins and unidentified others in Cyprus. Unnamed co-
conspirators transferred almost $300,000 from the financial-
services account of a person in the U.S. to a bank account
controlled by the Zdorovenins.  “Cybercrime is a pandemic that makes geography
meaningless,” Bharara said in the statement. “From far away,
with the click of a mouse, the cybercriminal can victimize
millions of people in the U.S. As alleged, Vladimir Zdorovenin
and his son did exactly that.”  The case is U.S. v. Zdorovenin, 07-cr-00440, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  