-- San Francisco Gasoline Jumps Most in Four Months on Maintenance
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-01-17T22:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/san-francisco-gasoline-jumps-most-in-four-months-on-maintenance.html
California-blend gasoline in  San
Francisco  jumped by the most in more than four months against
gasoline futures on speculation that refinery maintenance is
tightening supplies in the market.  Carbob in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  rose 11.75 cents to a premium of 5
cents a gallon versus gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 4:27 p.m. New York time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest margin for the
fuel in San Francisco since Jan. 9.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  is conducting planned maintenance on units at
the 170,000-barrel-a-day  Martinez (TEMTCRUD)  refinery in Northern
California, and  Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ)  shut the hydrocracker at
the  Bakersfield (SHBCCRUD)  plant for work last month.  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
reported flaring yesterday at the Rodeo oil refinery, north of
San Francisco.  Rich Johnson , a Conoco spokesman based at the company’s
headquarters in Houston, said the company doesn’t comment on
“day-to-day operations” at the plant.  Carbob in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  slipped 1 cent to 12 cents above
gasoline futures as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  worked to return the
 Torrance (XOTOCRUD)  refinery back to normal operations after power failures
last week. The refinery was scheduled to flare gases through
today, the Irving, Texas-based company said in a notice to the
 South Coast Air Quality Management District .  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  also shut units last week at the
 Wilmington (VAWICRUD)  refinery to work on a crude unit and coker, and
Tesoro was performing short-term maintenance on two gasoline-
making units at the  Wilmington (SHWCCRUD)  plant, two people familiar with
the refinery’s operations said Jan. 12.  California-blend diesel in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD)  weakened 1.25 cents
to a premium of 3 cents against Nymex heating oil futures. The
same fuel in  San Francisco (DIEISCAD)  was unchanged at a premium of 2.75
cents a gallon against futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland (MOGHD87P) ,  Oregon , rose
for the first time in four days, by 1.25 cents to a premium of
2.75 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  