-- Saudi Basic Fourth-Quarter Profit Drops 10% on Pricing, Misses Estimates
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-01-17T17:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/saudi-basic-profit-misses-analysts-estimates-as-petrochemical-prices-drop.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, said fourth-quarter profit
dropped 10 percent, missing analysts’ estimates.  Net income  fell to 5.24 billion riyals ($1.4 billion) from
5.81 billion riyals a year earlier, the Riyadh-based company
known as Sabic said in a statement today. The  mean  estimate of
seven analysts was for a profit of 7.56 billion riyals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The decline was “mainly driven by a lower pricing
environment in global markets for most of the products, despite
an increase in sales volumes,” the company said in the
statement. Kayan Petrochemical Co., a Sabic unit, said its
fourth-quarter loss widened, while  Yanbu National Petrochemicals
Co. (YANSAB) , another unit, reported fourth-quarter profit that missed
estimates.  “The fundamentals have been strong in 2011, but in the
fourth quarter prices and demand started to weaken,” Hans Zayed, head of research at Rasmala Investment Bank, said in
response to e-mailed questions before the results were
announced.  The  shares declined  2.1 percent to close at 92 riyals today
before the results were announced. The stock lost 8.1 percent
last year compared with a 3.1 percent drop in Saudi’s benchmark
Tadawul All Share Index.  ‘Mirror Image’  Sabic Chief Executive Officer Mohamed al-Mady said he
expects prices and demand for petrochemicals to improve toward
the end of 2012. Last year “started good and slowed down a
little bit toward the end of the year,” he said in a press
conference today. “My prediction, hopefully, is that 2012 may
be a mirror image of 2011. We are going to start slow then maybe
pick toward the end of the year.”  Sabic’s fourth-quarter sales increased 14.6 percent to 47
billion riyals, Chief Financial Officer Mutlaq al-Morished told
reporters in  Riyadh  today. Full-year sales gained about 25
percent to 190 billion riyals, al-Morished said.  The company’s earnings fell “due to lower chemicals prices
across the board, which should more than offset strong
fertilizers prices that prevailed during the quarter,” Ahmed Shams El Din, Cairo-based director of equity research at EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE, said in an e-mail today.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co. (SAFCO) , a unit of Sabic, said fourth-
quarter profit rose 25 percent to 1.28 billion riyals from 1.03
billion riyals a year ago, according to a statement from the
Jubail-based company on Jan. 11.  Expansion Plans  Sabic, the maker of fertilizers and plastics used for
everything from packaging to car bumpers, has added output
capacity through units and joint ventures. It seeks to triple
production to 130 million tons by 2020.  The company signed a memorandum of understanding with  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  to build a petrochemical plant in
Tianjin,  China , the  Saudi Press Agency  reported on Jan. 15. The
companies will have annual polycarbonate capacity of 260 kilo
metric tons from the plant when operations start in 2015, Sabic
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “In terms of new materials and products, China is the one
that is on our radar screen,” al-Mady said.  Sabic has no plans to offer bonds this year, al-Mady said.
The European debt crisis had “impacted our business,” al-Mady
said. “When you have slow growth, you have low prices,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  