-- Scotland Offers Renewable-Energy Assets to Russian Investors
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-01-17T10:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/scotland-offers-renewable-energy-assets-to-russian-investors.html
Scottish Finance Secretary John Swinney invited Russian companies to buy stakes in renewable
projects as the  Scotland  seeks to get all its electricity from
clean energy sources by the end of the decade.  Shares in Offshore wind, wave and tidal projects as well as
carbon capture and storage initiatives may be bought by to
Russian companies such as energy companies or financial
investors, Swinney said yesterday in an interview in London.  “There is an investment appetite from Russian investors,”
Swinney said after meetings with the Russian Ambassador
Alexander Yakovenko to boost trade links between the two
countries.  The seas around Scotland have the potential to provide up
to 25 percent of  Europe ’s tidal power and 10 percent of its wave
power, according to Scottish Development International, a
government body. The marine  energy industry  has yet to produce a
device that can work at a utility scale.  “The Scottish government in its spending program over the
next few years will be deploying about 200 million pounds of
direct resources, a likelihood of another 100 million pounds to
be added to that, to support the development principally of the
offshore wind, wave and tidal renewable resources,” he said.  Technology used in offshore wind, wave and tidal projects
may be relevant for  Russia  as it explores renewable energy
development, Swinney said.  “There will never come a moment where there is enough
state investment to make this happen,” he said. “This needs
private investment. The invitation I was giving out today is to
encourage Russian companies to consider investment in the
Scottish renewables market.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  