-- Mapping My Genome Starts a Search for DNA Answers I May Not Want to Know
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-01-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/search-genome-as-tennis-thrice-weekly-no-barrier-to-decoded-dna.html
On the fourth floor of a red brick
medical building in Boston’s South End is an office where few
want to go -- where people get a frequently unwelcome glimpse of
their future through a careful reading of their DNA.  My chair faces  Aubrey Milunsky , co-director of Boston
University School of Medicine’s  Center for Human Genetics . Women
have been told here they’re harboring breast cancer genes. Men
have learned they may develop incurable  Huntington’s disease .
Parents have been informed their child may die before they do.  Why, Milunsky asked during that visit in May, was I
thinking about getting all my DNA decoded, a procedure that
would give me a complete transcript of the instructions for
making and operating my heart, lungs, liver, kidneys, skin, and
brain? A 53-year-old father of two, I run a mile every day and
play tennis three times a week. I most likely have decades of
health in front of me. Yet hidden among the letters of the
genetic code may be flaws that foretell horrible lethal diseases
that he’s seen hundreds of times before.  “Why would you want to know that?” asked  Milunsky , the
author of “Your Genes, Your Health: A Critical Family Guide
That Could Save Your Life” ( Oxford University Press , 2011). “Why
would you want to do that to yourself and your family? Why cast
a blanket of gloom and doom over them? What good does it do you
to have such dire information when there’s nothing you can do
about it? I wouldn’t recommend it.”  Hometown Volunteer  While gene testing is useful for people who have documented
risk or symptoms of disease and want to take action, the whole
genome is currently a landscape filled with vague signposts
pointing toward cancer,  Parkinson’s disease , and other
conditions that may or may not arise in my future, Milunsky
warned. I might also discover that I’m fated to develop a
degenerative nervous-system disorder, or may have passed genes
linked to  breast cancer  on to my children.  I started thinking about this step 11 years ago in a press
briefing in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , on genome sequencing at
the Whitehead Institute, a Massachusetts Institute of
Technology-affiliated research center. I learned that the
genetic material being analyzed there was from several people,
and most of it came from one anonymous volunteer from Buffalo,
 New York  -- my hometown.  I wished that volunteer had been me.  A decade ago, sequencing a single human genome took the
combined efforts of laboratories and companies around the world.
While the genome today remains at the frontier of biology and
medicine, it’s rapidly becoming accessible to thousands, if not
millions of people.  Days, Not Years  Companies are offering new products that can sequence
genomes in days, rather than years. Doctors are preparing to use
the technology to tailor cancer treatment, diagnose sick
children, and track outbreaks of dangerous diseases in
hospitals. Having my genome sequenced would offer glimpses of
the biomedicine of the decades to come, and give me some insight
into my ancestry. I wanted to take a look.  By the end of 2010, about 3,000 people had their full
genomes sequenced since 2001, the year the  U.S. National
Institutes of Health  published the first draft of the human
genome at a cost of about $2.3 billion. Over that time, the cost
to transcribe an individual’s genome has plummeted to about
$4,000, and will drop to $1,000 by the end of the year,
according to sequencer makers. While the first genome took 11
years to sequence, virtually anyone today can have their own
decoded in a few weeks or months. The science journal Nature
 estimated  that by the end of last year, the number of sequenced
genomes rose to about 30,000.  10-Speed Bike  At these prices, the cost of deciphering your entire genome
is rapidly approaching that of a 10-speed bike. A study from the
nonprofit Mitre Corp., a Defense Department advisory group,
recommended that all military personnel have their full genomes
sequenced because of the comprehensive health information it
provides. The North Atlantic nation of the Faroe Islands has
announced a program to sequence the genomes of all 50,000
citizens. Genome sequencing at birth may become as routine as
cutting the umbilical cord, according to Jay Flatley, president
of sequencer-maker  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)   Sequencing the genes of tumor cells can save lives.
Differences between normal tissue and cancers can tell doctors
which treatments are most likely to work. Routine sequencing of
the genomes of cancer cells is “definitely a direction we’re
moving towards,” said Bert Vogelstein, an oncologist at Johns
Hopkins Medical Institute in Baltimore.  Analyzing cancer DNA will constitute the largest clinical
application of genomic-sequencing technology, according to
Clifford Reid, chief executive officer of  Complete Genomics Inc. (GNOM)   Personal Genome Project  There are other potential benefits. Anyone may be at some
risk of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, an often-silent, dangerous
enlargement of the heart that can strike and kill young athletes
out of the blue. People who have had their genomes sequenced can
see whether they have these genetic risks, and might want
cardiac imaging or preventive treatment, said George Church, a
Harvard Medical School genetics professor who has spent his
career pushing sequencing technology forward.  Church is the leader of the  Personal Genome Project , a
Harvard-based effort to obtain genetic and medical information
from thousands of individuals and better understand the links
between genes and health. He had his own genome sequenced and
made his medical information public on a website.  Earlier this year, I called Church and told him I was
thinking about having my genome sequenced. He agreed to
cooperate, saying that having a reporter’s DNA analyzed would
help demystify the process for the public and stimulate
discussion about risks and benefits. (Bloomberg LP donated
$7,000 to Church’s lab, about what it would cost to have my
genome sequenced by a private company at that time.)  Could Be Cloned  I began spending my evenings reading through and filling
out study registration materials. The consent information listed
outlandish-sounding  risks : If I made my genome public, it would
be possible for someone to synthesize my DNA and plant it at a
crime scene. I could be cloned. There was an all-capitals
warning that none of the information obtained by having my
genome sequenced should be used to make medical decisions.  That doesn’t mean that the information isn’t useful, Church
told me in a meeting in his office in August. Any suggestion of
genetic illness that arises from the results can be confirmed
with approved medical tests. People who have the ApoE4 gene that
raises the risk of  Alzheimer’s disease  may want to protect their
families finances with long-term care insurance; those with
genes that protect against Alzheimer’s may want to skip the
insurance and save the premiums. Sequencing can detect signs of
hidden genetic risks, such as those that cause cystic fibrosis,
which may affect couples’ decisions about having children.  “There is all kinds of value locked up in the genome,”
Church said. “The cost of getting it out is falling, but it’s
already a bargain.”  Worrywart  Seeing how Church had thrived after sequencing gave me
confidence. I’m a worrier, the kind of person who wakes up at 2
a.m. and can’t banish thoughts. I worry about my children, my
job, my forehand, the home that needs repairing.  Yet there was something about genome sequencing that
overshadowed the worry. It reminded me of the excitement I felt
one winter in Buffalo when I realized the snow was so deep
outside our house that I could climb out my bedroom window and
jump off the porch roof. My mother happened to glance out from
our living room just in time to see me flying through the air,
and then watched me run upstairs to do it again. Exploring my
genome gave me the same exhilaration. While there were risks, it
was an entree to a new kind of understanding.  Grandfathers  I had a number of motives, but they all essentially boil
down to the difference between my two grandfathers. My maternal
grandfather John died of cancer at 60, when I was two years old.
My mother talks about him so much -- his kindness, his sense of
humor, his love of ketchup sandwiches -- that I still feel close
to him.  As for my father’s father, Grampa Frank, I can still see
his face. I followed him into the frigid Pacific Ocean waters of
 La Jolla ,  California , when he was in his 70s. In that same
decade of his life, he drove from  San Diego  to visit our family
in Buffalo, where he showered my siblings and me with magical
gifts: Buffalo nickels, hotel pens and soaps, tiny calendars,
fishing lures.  Born in a generation when a man’s average  life expectancy 
was about 46 years, Grampa Frank smoked thousands of cigarettes
and lived to 82. His sister, Marie, lived alone in  Washington ’s
DuPont Circle area from the end of World War II through the
 Reagan administration , finally dying at age 92 after a near-
lifetime of smoking. Their brother, Lucian, died at 88.  Sobering News  Which grandfather’s genes did I get? Those of John, whose
family has been affected frequently by thyroid disease and
arthritis; or Frank’s, whose relatives have been beset by
nervous-system illness?  Genome sequencing might give the answers to those questions
-- and it might not, Denise Lautenbach, a genetic counselor at
Harvard-affiliated  Brigham & Women’s Hospital  in  Boston , told me
in August. While there are no guarantees, the  brain cancer  my
grandfather John died from was unlikely to be inherited, since
no one else in the family appeared to have suffered from
something similar, she said. On the other hand, I probably had a
50 percent chance of inheriting a disorder that caused my Grampa
Frank’s hand to shake.  As to the other conditions that might run in my family --
depression, thyroid problems that can lead to obesity, cancer,
varicose veins -- those may or may not be explained by genes,
Lautenbach said.  “They’re all common conditions, and they appear to run in
families,” she said. “But families have lots of things in
common besides genes. They often eat the same diets, are exposed
to the same chemicals and environmental conditions.”  Take Action  Genome sequencing can unearth serious, life-altering
information that requires individuals to take action, or at
least consider doing so. In June 2010,  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) 
CEO Greg Lucier spent a weekend in his Carlsbad, California,
offices as 10 experts from his company detailed the results from
sequencing his genome. Life makes sequencing equipment and
supplies, and Lucier had decided, like me, to give it a road
test.  Lucier found that he’s a carrier of the BRCA1 gene that
increases the risk of breast and ovarian cancer. He told his
wife he thought she ought to be tested for the gene, which would
help determine whether their daughter might be affected. His
wife refused.  “She said, ‘I don’t have breast cancer and no one in my
family has ever had breast cancer.’ So she’s not going to be
tested for the gene. But when my daughter gets older I’m going
to suggest that she have regular mammograms.”  Employee Information  What if your employer knew you had a high genetic risk of
disease? Could you lose your health insurance? A public outcry
erupted in the 1990s when it came to light that the Burlington
Northern & Santa Fe Railroad had begun genetic testing on 125
employees’ blood without their consent. Employees were concerned
that the company was trying to cut bills for repetitive stress
injuries by showing that some employees had inherited the
condition, recalls Democratic Representative Louise Slaughter
from Rochester, New York. The case fueled distrust of DNA
testing, she said.  “People were avoiding genetic tests because they were
afraid of losing their health coverage,” Slaughter said.  In 2008, after 13 years of debate, President  George W. Bush 
signed the  Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act , which
Slaughter sponsored. The law specifically forbids health
insurers from using genomic data to deny service to individuals.  GINA Law  Losing health insurance because of genetic testing is no
longer a concern since the GINA law was passed, said Sharon Terry, president of the Genetic Alliance advocacy group. Still,
the law doesn’t apply to some small-business employees, nor to
members of the military. It also doesn’t cover long-term
insurance against the costs of nursing-home care.  Initially I was attracted by the chance to take part in an
experiment at the frontiers of science. But Milunsky’s warnings
kept ringing in my ears:  How much do you really want to know?
What if you discover a genetic flaw that not only affects you,
but your family.  I decided to talk to members of my family. In the months
leading up to my sequencing, I spoke with my siblings, parents,
children and wife individually to make sure they could air any
feelings or fears about making my genome public. It was bound to
reveal disease risks, and they might have similar
susceptibility. I’m one of seven children, so it took a few
days.  ‘Under a Microscope’  My youngest sister Rosemary, a psychologist in  Kansas City ,
didn’t object to my plan, though she was concerned about my
state of mind. She recalled undergoing fetal testing for genetic
disease before the births of her first two boys. By the time she
was ready to have the third, she was sure she didn’t need to be
retested. Suppose her third child had shown signs of Down
syndrome? There are worse things, and she wouldn’t have changed
her mind about having the baby in any case, she said.  “I don’t want to be tested, scrutinized, put under a
microscope if I don’t have to be,” she said. “Maybe you’d rather
just enjoy life up to the point where you absolutely have to
face reality.”  After years of listening to my dinner-table talks about the
promise of genetics, my wife and my two children weren’t
surprised to hear that I wanted to write about my genome.  “If there’s something I should be concerned about, I’d
rather know about it,” my 19-year-old daughter Hanna said.
“Maybe we can do something, maybe not, but it’s better to know.”  Blood, Saliva  On a sunny September day, I walked into Church’s lab to
give samples for sequencing. Two of Church’s collaborators on
the Personal Genome Project watched as Joe Thakuria, a Harvard
clinical geneticist, pushed a needle into the crook of my left
arm, and an IV tube zipped full of my blood. Afterwards, I spit
about a dozen times into a saliva collection tube, from which
DNA will also be purified. Samples were shipped the same day by
FedEx to begin the process of sequencing, and my results were
expected back in a few months.  I told my parents of my decision. My mother keeps track of
all the families’ illnesses -- the gain and loss of weight,
trips to the hospital for ailments real and imagined. She began
speculating about which of our family traits might be inherited,
and from whom. My father, a retired English professor from whom
I inherited the gene for writing, if one exists, was thrilled.  “We’re delighted you’re doing this,” he told me over the
phone, as if I’d told him we were having another child. “We
can’t wait to see what comes out of it.”  (The sequencing results of reporter John Lauerman will be
detailed later in this series.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Kaufman  at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 