-- Sears Rises on Speculation Lampert May Take Retailer Private
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-01-17T21:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/sears-rises-on-speculation-lampert-may-take-retailer-private-2-.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the retailer
controlled by hedge fund manager Edward Lampert, rose the most
in more than three months amid speculation that the company may
seek to go private.  The shares  climbed  9.5 percent to $36.75 at the close in
New York for the biggest gain since Oct. 4. The  Hoffman Estates ,
Illinois-based company’s stock dropped 56 percent in 2011.  Sears, working to turn around four years of declining
sales, has lost ground as shoppers have flocked to such rivals
as Macy’s Inc. Lampert, who owns about 60 percent of Sears and
serves as chairman, may seek new capital and to reorganize
operations, said Paul Swinand, an analyst with  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   “Restructuring is often easier taken under private
hands,” Swinand, who is based in  Chicago , said today in a
telephone interview. “Anything that gives you more flexibility
is an advantage.”  Lampert bought 4.46 million shares from his ESL hedge fund
at $29.20 per share, according to a regulatory filing last week.  Sears’s suppliers are now unable to get loans from CIT
Group Inc. for their shipments to the retailer, two people
familiar with the situation said last week. CIT, the largest
U.S. company that provides what’s known as factoring, told
clients it would no longer approve credit for orders after Jan.
11, according to the people, who declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  Losing Customers  The retailer has lost customers and market share to
discounters such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) , which
are attracting budget-minded consumers.  On Dec. 27, Sears tumbled the most in 8 1/2 years after
saying it will close as many as 120 stores. Same-store sales
fell 5.2 percent in the eight weeks ended Dec. 25, Sears said
last month.  The company is allowing other retailers to sell its
DieHard, Craftsman and Kenmore products, including deals with
 Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  and Ace Hardware.  Sears is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings on
Feb. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  