-- Boeing, Microsoft Face Seattle Snow as Flights Canceled
-- B y   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2012-01-18T23:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/seattle-may-get-worst-snowfall-in-27-years.html
Airlines canceled flights out of
Seattle,  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. employees worked from home via
teleconference and Starbucks Corp. shut its headquarters as a
winter snowstorm hit the normally rainy city.  Some parts of the Puget Sound region surrounding Seattle
received near-record snowfall. The state capital of Olympia,
 Washington , received 10.5 inches (27 centimeters), the fourth-
most recorded there, according to the  National Weather Service .
As much as 4 inches of snow blanketed Seattle streets.  The region, where major employers also include Boeing Co.
and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , lacks the plows of places that get snow
regularly, and hilly terrain complicates travel. Public schools
and the  University of Washington  in Seattle told students to
stay home today. Seattle’s iconic Space Needle also closed.  “For a city that is known more for its rain than its snow,
this is going to be a big snowstorm,” said Andy Haner, a
 National Weather Service  forecaster in Seattle. “The other big
issue here is our hills.  San Francisco  is known for its hills
but Seattle isn’t that far behind.”  Alaska Air Group Inc., the largest carrier at Seattle-
Tacoma International Airport, had canceled 47 flights by Alaska
Air and its Horizon unit as of 9:30 a.m. local time.  Juggling Flights  “We selected flights in markets where we fly several times
a day so that we can reaccommodate customers as quickly as
possible,” said Paul McElroy, a spokesman for the Seattle-based
carrier. “We’re doing our best to operate flights to the
Midwest and East Coast, and to  Hawaii  so folks can get to some
warmth and sunshine.”  Runways are open and some carriers canceled flights
“proactively,” the airport said on its website.  Starbucks, which operates the world’s largest chain of
coffee shops, closed its headquarters in Seattle yesterday and
said it would consider shutting individual shops neighborhood by
neighborhood.  Workers at  Boeing (BA) , which makes jetliners in the Seattle
area, were expected to work their normal shifts. Attendance
today was lower than normal, said Cindy Wall, a spokeswoman for
the Chicago-based company, declining to provide numbers.  Microsoft Preparations  Microsoft planned to keep in touch with its staff through
an e-mail alert system, said John Cirone, director of employee
communications at the company.  “The vast majority of our employees are able to work
remotely, so we would foresee very little impact on our
business,” he said by e-mail.  Amy Barzdukas, a general manager at Microsoft, said members
of her server software marketing team were working from their
homes using personal computers, mobile phones and a Microsoft
teleconferencing program called Lync. She said some “hardy
souls” were thinking of venturing to the company’s Redmond
campus, which never closes.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest U.S. warehouse club
chain, didn’t anticipate any major disruptions at a distribution
center it operates in the region, said Franz Lazarus, senior
vice president of global operations at the company, based in
Issaquah, Washington, east of Seattle.  “When these snow events happen, some parts of the
community are affected and some are not,” Lazarus said. “I’ve
got to make sure the parking lots are clean,” he joked.  Olympia Snowfall  Cities along the Interstate 5 corridor south of Seattle,
including Olympia, got 8 to 18 inches of snow today, said Danny
Mercer, a meteorologist with the weather service in Seattle.  The snow may turn icy by tomorrow, making travel difficult,
and then melt within a few days, possibly causing flooding, he
said.  “We’re really discouraging travel,” he said.  Ski areas in the mountains east of  Seattle  and  Portland 
welcomed the snow to make up for a dry December.  “We’ve got what everyone has been dreaming about -- lots
of deep powder,” said Hans Wipper, operations manager at Mount
Hood Skibowl, east of Portland, where forecasts called for 1 to
3 feet of snow.  Business had been slower than normal so far this year, he
said.  “It’s winter, finally,” said Drew Jackson, a spokesman
for Mount Bachelor ski resort, near Bend,  Oregon .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  