-- Serbia May Cut Rates Seventh Time Since June as Inflation Slows
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-01-17T10:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/serbia-may-cut-rates-seventh-time-since-june-as-inflation-slows.html
Serbia ’s central bank probably will
cut its  benchmark interest rate  for the seventh time since June
as evidence of an economic slowdown emerges and inflation
remains tame.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will lower its two-
week repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 9.50
percent when policy makers meet on Jan. 19, according to 13 of
23 economists in a  Bloomberg survey . Two predicted a half-point
cut to 9.25 percent, seven expected the bank to hold rates and
one called for rates to rise.  The National Bank of Serbia is evaluating the effect of
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis on the domestic economy to decide
on the future direction for monetary policy. Slowing inflation
allowed it to cut the main rate to 9.75 percent on Dec. 8 and a
weakening economy may encourage more policy easing, analysts
said.  Policy makers have “already said that easing is the policy
direction as disinflation continues,” said Predrag Stojanovic,
the head of treasury at the Belgrade-based unit of  Greece ’s
 Piraeus Bank SA. (TPEIR)   Gross domestic product grew 0.5 percent in the third
quarter, following a 2.5 percent pace in the previous three-
month period. The International Monetary Fund’s Bogdan
Lissovolik said on Dec. 6 that the prospects for 2012 growth are
lower because of an expected slowdown in exports to the European
Union.  Inflation Slowdown  The inflation rate in December fell to 7 percent, the
lowest rate since August 2010, compared with 8.1 percent in
November. The central bank expects inflation to slow toward its
target of 4.3 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points at
the end of March and see the annual rate at 4 percent, plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points, by year’s end.  Risks to the inflation target include the dinar’s exchange
rate, regulated price increases and a stalled drive to increase
the share of dinar transactions in the banking system,
Stojanovic said.  While weakening industrial output, slowing trade,
unemployment, and a three-month high repo stock suggest a cut,
the central bank should consider the dinar’s depreciation before
making a move, said Dusko Vasiljevic of the CEVES economic
research institute, the only economist who called for a rate
increase.  The dinar slumped to 107.07 to the euro at the end of 2011.
It has stabilized at between 104 and 105 against the common
currency this month.  Economists in the survey forecast a dinar rate at 103.50 to
the euro at the end of January and 104 one month later. The
dinar traded at 104.56 at 10:58 a.m. in Belgrade, according to
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  