-- Serbia Needs to Lure Investment to Finance Debt, Institute Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-01-17T16:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/serbia-needs-to-lure-investment-to-finance-debt-institute-says.html
Serbia ’s government needs to attract
investments over the next three years to limit the amount it
borrows to finance its debt servicing needs, according to the
Belgrade-based  Economics Institute .  The difference between capital inflows and outflows from
long-term credits that will need financing in 2012 will be about
2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion), the coordinator of the study,
Stojan Stamenkovic, told reporters in Belgrade today.  The Balkan nation may see from this year “a negative
balance” between inflows and repayments of long-term loans if
debt repayments exceed capital inflows, he said. “Any further
government borrowing at rising interest rates can kill the
balance of payments.”  An increase in risk premiums for borrowers like Serbia is a
concern and  Europe ’s debt crisis may make it harder for Serbia
to tap international markets for funds it needs to cover its
deficit in 2012, central bank Governor Dejan Soskic said Dec.
28. An alternative to raising debt abroad would be to borrow
both in dinars and euros on the local market, he added.  If the government fails to attract investments, the central
bank may have to tap its foreign-exchange reserves to finance
the current account deficit and any steep decline in reserves,
at 12 billion euros in December, would lead to a “serious real
depreciation of the dinar.”  Debt Servicing  The current-account deficit widened by 16.1 percent in the
first 10 months of 2011 to 2.31 billion euros, while 10-month
net foreign direct investment inflows stood at 1.57 billion
euros, according to central bank  figures . The gap is seen at 7.5
percent of gross domestic product in 2011 and the  International
Monetary Fund  sees it rising by a full percentage point in 2012.  Serbia will also need to make sure its debt servicing-to-
exports ratio, already at 34 percent, doesn’t approach 40
percent “as it did in 1982 when we defaulted on our debt” and
the government should cut the ratio to 25 percent to make it
sustainable, Stamenkovic said.  Meanwhile, the room to borrow may be exhausted by the end
of the first half with the country hitting a self-imposed cap on
public debt-to-GDP ratio of 45 percent, he said. The government
must improve conditions for foreign investors to avoid a worst-
case scenario, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  