-- SG Biofuels Gets $17 Million to Develop Bioenergy Crop Jatropha
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-01-17T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/sg-biofuels-gets-17-million-to-develop-bioenergy-crop-jatropha.html
SG Biofuels Inc., a closely held U.S.
bioenergy crop company, received $17 million in venture capital
that will fund research and international jatropha planting
programs.  Thomas, McNerney & Partners led the Series B financing
round, and Finistere Ventures LLC also participated, SG Biofuels
said today in a statement. Existing backers  Life Technologies
Corp. (LIFE)  and Koch Industries Inc.’s Flint Hills Resources LLC unit
also reinvested.  Jatropha (JATROIL) , a non-edible shrub native to Central America, is
a perennial crop that can be grown on marginal land though it
still requires fertilizer and water to thrive. The seeds can be
crushed to make oil that’s processed into biodiesel, jet fuel
and specialty chemicals.  SG Biofuels has the largest library of jatropha genes in
the world and uses that information to accelerate natural
breeding to improve yields and cut growing costs, according to
chief executive officer Kirk Haney. None of the seeds it
produces are genetically modified.  “We’re focused on developing the seeds so that they
produce a lot of oil,” Haney said in an interview in  San
Francisco . The company also is developing seeds for plants that
are resistant to insects and survive with less water.  “To sequence a genome 10 or 20 years ago it was millions
of dollars,” Haney said. “Today you can do it inexpensively.
For a few thousand dollars we can resequence a strain of a plant,
and that gives us a lot of information and data to work with.”  Guatemala Center  The company, based in  San Diego , has a research and
development center in Guatemala, and the two seed contracts it
has announced to date will result in 250,000 acres of planted
jatropha.  That includes an 86,000-acre planting program in  India  with
 Bharat Petroleum (BPCL)  Corp., the country’s second largest petroleum
company. It’s also working with Airbus SAS, the  Inter-American
Development Bank (ITAD)  and  TAM SA (TAMM4) ,  Brazil ’s largest airline, to plant
75,000 acres in Brazil for production of bio-jet fuel. The new
funding will support those efforts and other opportunities,
Haney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  