-- Shipping Markets to Struggle for Two More Years, Platou Says
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2012-01-17T09:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/shipping-markets-to-struggle-for-two-more-years-platou-says.html
The container and tanker shipping
markets will struggle for another two years amid a glut of crude
vessels and slowing global economic growth, according to the
head of RS Platou ASA,  Norway ’s biggest shipbroker.  “In crude tankers and container shipping it’s going to
take 2013 to work through the oversupply, but then the upside
could be good,” Peter Anker, chief executive officer at the
Oslo-based broker said in a Jan. 16 interview at the company’s
headquarters. “The tanker market is a dark sea and container
shipping looks very unpromising.”  Orders for new ships will fall 10 percent this year as
banks curb financing amid a global vessel glut that has weighed
on prices, reduced demand, spurred cancellations and delays in
construction, Deutsche Bank AG has said. Orders will plunge 44
percent for  container ships  and 11 percent for tankers, the
German bank said in a Jan. 11 report.  The slump will probably lead to increased combinations in
the industry, Anker said. “I expect to see a lot of
consolidation and restructuring in shipping in general this
year, especially in the tanker market, where the outlook is
still very challenging,” he said.  Shipping billionaire  John Fredriksen ’s Frontline Ltd ., the
world’s biggest operator of the largest crude tankers, earlier
this month completed a restructuring as it sold vessels, pared
commitments for new ships and eliminated its bank debt to tackle
a shipping market slump.  Torm A/S (TORM) , a Danish tanker and bulk
shipping company, fell the most in seven weeks on Jan. 13 after
Oslo-based Finansavisen reported that Nordea Bank AB had tried
to find a buyer for the company.  ‘Still Strong’  Not all shipping markets are struggling, with the liquefied
natural gas segment “still strong” and the dry cargo market
“looks promising going into 2013,” Anker said.  Demand for LNG, liquefied by freezing gas, is rising as
nations from the U.K. to South Korea curb pollution. Gas emits
about half the carbon dioxide of coal. Global LNG demand may
grow 7.5 percent this year, led by Japan, China and India,
according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Total demand for dry-bulk cargoes, which include  iron ore 
and grain, will rise 3 percent this year, slowing from 5 percent
last year, according to London-based Clarkson Plc, the world’s
biggest shipbroker. Iron ore is the second-biggest commodity
cargo after crude oil.  Should  oil prices  remain at $100 plus before the end of
2012, ultra-deepwater rigs day rates could reach $600,000 for
three-year contracts this year, Anker said. Eighteen new ultra
deepwater rigs will be delivered this year, of which 12 have
contracts, while another four units are “rumored” to have been
fixed on long-term contracts, Platou estimates.  The shipbroker is still seeking to increase its staff to
450 to 500 people by the end of this year. While Platou said in
September last year that the earliest it would reconsider doing
an initial public offering would be in the second quarter of
this year, it is still waiting for markets to improve.  “We have to consider the market and markets are not open
right now,” Anker said, without providing further details, when
asked whether Platou maintained its listing target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  