-- Singapore Exports Unexpectedly Rose on Boost from Pharmaceutical Shipments
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-01-17T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/singapore-exports-unexpectedly-increase-as-pharmaceutical-shipments-surge.html
Singapore ’s exports unexpectedly
rose in December as pharmaceutical shipments surged, countering
a drop in sales of electronics goods.  Non-oil domestic  exports  climbed 9 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 1.4 percent increase in November, the
island’s trade promotion agency said in a statement today. The
median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 1.2
percent decline.  The advance in overseas sales may be short-lived as
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis curbs demand for Asian goods,
with purchasing managers’ indexes in export-dependent economies
including Singapore and Taiwan signaling manufacturing is still
contracting. Non-oil exports from Singapore may increase 3
percent to 5 percent this year, the trade promotion board said
in November.  “The export sector is facing tremendous headwinds as the
malaise in  Europe  and the slow recovery in the U.S. are taking a
toll on global demand,”  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before the report. “ Asia  is
also feeling the chill, with  China  and key markets expected to
report slower growth. The odds are stacking up against
Singapore’s export performance.”  China is due to report gross domestic product numbers today.
Asia’s largest economy probably grew the least in 10 quarters in
the last three months of 2011, according to a Bloomberg News
survey ahead of the release.  Electronics Decline  Singapore’s  electronics shipments  by companies such as
contract manufacturer Venture Corp. fell 4.6 percent in December
from a year earlier, after rising 0.1 percent the previous month.  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, increased 16.7 percent. Petrochemicals exports
fell 22.4 percent, while pharmaceutical shipments climbed 38.6
percent after gaining 21.5 percent in November.  The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as
GlaxoSmithKline Plc can cause  industrial output  to fluctuate
from month to month. Drug companies sometimes shut plants for
cleaning before making different products.  Singapore’s non-oil  exports  gained a seasonally adjusted
16.4 percent last month from November, when they climbed a
revised 5.8 percent, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  