-- Single-A Municipal Debt Will Gain Amid Low Yields, Vanguard’s Alwine Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-01-17T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/single-a-munis-will-gain-amid-low-yields-vanguard-s-alwine-says.html
Investors may move to A rated
municipal bonds maturing in more than 10 years with top-grade
rates near historic lows, said Chris Alwine, who oversees $125
billion as head of municipal funds at Vanguard Group Inc.  The  yield  on AAA rated 10-year tax-exempts fell below 2
percent on Dec. 9 for the first time since Bloomberg Fair Value
data began in January 2009.  For today’s Bloomberg Brief: Municipal Market newsletter,
Alwine also discussed public pensions, the tax-exempt status of
municipal bonds and issuers that may struggle this year.  Q: Where are you looking for value in municipal bonds?  A: There are two pockets. The first is beyond 10 years in
maturity. When the Fed did Operation Twist, we saw the curve
flatten out to 10 years. From 10 to 25 years is the sweet spot,
there’s value in there. We prefer to extend duration a bit to
the 10- to 25-year area at this point.  The other pocket of value is in the A rated category. The
credit conditions in our view are stabilizing.  People will find themselves there because there’s very
little yield left in the market. They may not go down to below
investment-grade or the non-rated space, but certainly we expect
the A rated category to be a trend in 2012.  Q: Will issuers take advantage of low yields and sell more
refunding bonds?  A: There is a large amount of debt that would make economic
sense for issuers to refund, and we expect refunding volumes to
pick up in 2012. We expect to have overall supply in the $325
billion to $350 billion range. Refunding could be upwards of 60
percent.  That’s not a net increase in supply though, because bonds
are redeemed and the holders of those bonds will recycle that
money into the new issuance.  Q: Do you expect  interest rates  to rise from historic lows?  A: We expect more of a range-bound market in terms of
interest rates. If there was a crisis emanating from  Europe , we
would expect high-grade yields to go lower but credit spreads to
widen. If there’s strong growth, we’d see rates rise and credit
spreads tighten.  At these rate levels, there’s a large amount of the
universe that’s refundable. So that’s something economical, and
it will save the issuers money. Of course, if rates were to rise
significantly, that would go away.  Q: Is there a particular issue or concern for the municipal
market in 2012?  A: The issue that may be talked about more in 2012 is
around pensions. That was in the news about 18 months ago and it
was quieter in 2011.  We haven’t seen strong financial-market returns in the past
year or so, and combined with the fact that many issuers are not
funding to the actuarially required amount, that leaves the
funding ratios at or lower than they were a year ago.  GASB  is coming out with some new disclosure requirements
around the discount rate. The impact of those changes will most
likely show that plans have a lower funding ratio, and so we
expect that to get some airplay in 2012.  Q: Are there any particular types of municipal bonds you’re
concerned about?  A: The local GO area is where we’re most cautious. Based on
the fiscal trends, it has a higher level of stress than you
would have in essential-service revenues.  They have a higher reliance on property taxes, and the
reassessment process is putting strains on the revenue front. At
the same time the costs continue to go up. If you think of it as
a household, costs go up every year, and if revenues aren’t
keeping up, it causes financial stress.  Q: Will the tax-exempt status of municipal bonds be
threatened in 2012?  A: We expect 2012 to be a rather light year for legislation
coming out in  Washington .  However, we believe that post-election,  tax reform  will be
revisited and certainly munis will be on the table. It was
brought up in the debt-ceiling debate as well as in the
supercommittee, and it’s not an issue that goes away. But we
don’t believe it’s a 2012 issue. 2013 or 2014 is likely when
that will be revisited.  Q: Do you think  credit quality  will continue to drive
investment decisions in 2012?  A: Absolutely. We’re in a slow-growth environment, and at
the same time reserves have been drawn down a lot. The issuers,
especially in the local GO area, have less of a financial
cushion than they had a couple of years ago. Credit work is
paramount in 2012 -- that won’t go away.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  