-- Solar Stocks Climb on ‘Hope’ for German Demand, Consolidation
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-01-17T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/solar-stocks-climb-on-hope-for-german-demand-consolidation.html
Solar stocks rose on anticipation
that lower-than-expected subsidy cuts in  Germany  will spur
demand while an oversupply of panels may lead to consolidation.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the biggest solar-panel maker,
gained 8.5 percent to $3.21 at the close in  New York  yesterday
and  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the biggest thin-film solar company, has
jumped 18.5 percent this year. They helped boost the  Bloomberg
Global Leaders Solar Index (BLGS)  of 37 companies to a 13 percent
increase this year, rising on all but four trading days.  Near-term fundamentals for the industry may improve, which
“could in turn drive a turn in investor sentiment and drive
solar stocks higher,” Vishal Shah, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst
in New York, said yesterday in a research note.  Anticipated cuts to subsidies in Germany, the world’s top
solar market, may be lower than expected and may trigger a rush
to install projects before new rates kick in, boosting shares in
panel makers, he said. Shah rates both First Solar and Suntech
as “hold.”  The market is rising on optimism that demand will surge
this year in  China  and “a hope that the worst is behind the
solar industry,” Ramesh Misra, a Brigantine Advisors LLC
analyst in New York, said in an interview. Chinese officials
said Jan. 10 that the country may double the amount of solar
capacity in operation there by installing 3 gigawatts this year.  “The second quarter is when we probably get a better
picture of what 2012 is likely to shape up to be and we’ll have
a better view of where shipment levels will be,” said Misra,
who rates First Solar “buy” and Suntech “hold.”  New Solar Markets  With prices falling for manufacturing equipment, new
markets may emerge in Asia, the Americas and  developing
countries , Bloomberg Industries said in its 2012 outlook.  A global oversupply of panels, which drove down prices last
year, will persist in 2012 and lead to consolidation, Bloomberg
Industries said.  The rally may not last, with some analysts predicting a
gloomy year. “I think 2012 is going to be as bad as the second
half of 2011 for the solar sector -- massive overcapacity, lousy
pricing and non-existent margins,”  Paul Leming , a Ticonderoga
Securities analyst in New York, said in an e-mail. He rates
First Solar a “sell” and Suntech “neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  