-- Holcim Offered 14% of Afrisam as PIC Saves Cement Maker from Debt Default
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-01-17T11:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/south-africa-s-pic-reaches-consensual-agreement-to-restructure-afrisam.html
Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  and Bunker Hills
Investments Ltd. were offered an extra 14 percent of Afrisam
Ltd., South  Africa ’s second-largest cement producer, for 940
million rand ($117 million).  The companies will have 18 months to buy the stake, Elias Masilela, the Public Investment Corp.’s chief executive officer,
said in an interview in Johannesburg today. The PIC, which
manages 1 trillion rand in government-employee pensions, reached
an agreement with Holcim over the past weekend to reorganize
Afrisam’s debt to avoid the cement maker defaulting on 1.03
billion euros ($1.3 billion) of bonds due next month.  “This development allows Afrisam to focus on its
operational fundamentals as well as grow the business, and most
importantly, allows for the protection of the value of the
Government Employee Pension Fund’s investments,” Masilela said.
The reorganization of Afrisam’s debt will cut its liabilities by
more than 15 billion rand to 6.5 billion rand.  Holcim, the world’s second-largest cement producer, helped
create Afrisam in 2006, selling its South African business to
Bunker Hills and other investors for 23 billion rand, funded
with debt. Holcim retained 15 percent of Afrisam, Bunker Hills
owned 37 percent and management 13 percent.  ‘Save the Company’  The PIC and most holders of Afrisam agreed in December to
reorganize the company’s debt to save it from failure amid a
slump in cement sales. The PIC, based in  Pretoria , now owns 99
percent of Afrisam after converting debt into equity and pledges
it provided as security when the deal was completed, in addition
to a 20 percent stake it bought at the time.  The current stake will drop to 57 percent once Afrisam’s
debt has been restructured, Masilela said. Former  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) 
Chief Executive Officer  Phuthuma Nhleko ’sPembani Group (Pty)
Ltd. will own about 38 percent.  “It became very clear that the only way to save the
company was to take the steps we have taken,” said Masilela.  Holcim, based in Jona,  Switzerland , yesterday said it is
writing down 415 million francs ($439 million) of debt and
accrued interest owed to it by Afrisam. It will retain a 2
percent stake once the debt reorganization is completed.  The PIC and other shareholders agreed to provide an
additional 3.3 billion rand to help pay off Afrisam’s foreign
debt due on Feb. 4, Masilela said in an interview. Of the 6.5
billion rand in total outstanding debt, the PIC and other local
investors will hold 5 billion rand at an interest rate of 11
percent a year while the PIC will own the remaining 1.5 billion
rand, which will charge 15 percent interest, he said.  Shed Control  The PIC will reduce its holding in Afrisam to 51 percent
and Pembani’s interest will decline to 30 percent should Holcim
and Bunker Hills buy the extra 14 percent stake, Masilela said.
“We have yet to get an indication as to when they’d like to
exercise the option,” he said.  The state-owned  money manager , the largest in Africa, wants
to reduce its Afrisam holding to below a controlling level once
it has made an adequate return on its investment, Masilela said.
“It is anomalous that we own this much in a single company,”
he said. The PIC also owns about 14 percent of  Pretoria Portland
Cement Co. (PPC) , South Africa’s largest cement maker, on behalf of
the Government Employee Pension Fund.  The reorganization of the debt will allow Afrisam’s Tanga
Cement Co. unit in Tanzania to add a second kiln line and for
Afrisam to explore expansion opportunities in other African
markets, said Afrisam Chief Executive Officer Stephan Olivier.  The company is going ahead with an environmental impact
study to build a plant in  South Africa ’s coastal town of
Saldanha Bay, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  