-- South Africa Ex-Central Bank Chief Mboweni Weighs Aviation Foray
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2012-01-17T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/south-africa-ex-central-bank-chief-mboweni-weighs-aviation-foray.html
Tito Mboweni, who served two terms
as  South Africa ’s first black central bank governor, said he may
follow a planned investment in iron ore mining with forays into
aviation and mobile communications technology businesses.  Mboweni, 52, would do the deals through Mboweni Brothers,
which he set up with relatives and friends as a “vehicle
through which we can generate business ideas and enter into
partnerships,” he said in an interview yesterday.  Labor Minister in  Nelson Mandela ’s cabinet, Mboweni was a
member of the ruling  African National Congress ’s national
executive committee, the party’s highest decision-making body.
Mboweni is non-executive chairman of  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the
world’s third-largest gold producer, and an international
adviser to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  He quit the South African
 Reserve Bank  in 2009.  “When I left the bank, I received too many proposals and I
didn’t have a vehicle,” Mboweni said in Johannesburg.  Ferrox Holdings Ltd., based in the British Virgin Islands,
said last week it signed a memorandum of understanding to sell a
stake of as much as a 20 percent to Mboweni’s company for $32
million, part of plans to raise $150 million for the Tivani
iron-ore project in South Africa’s northern Limpopo province.  Mboweni follows former ANC officials Cyril Ramaphosa and
Tokyo Sexwale into the  mining industry . Ramaphosa founded
Shanduka Group, whose interests include coal mines in a venture
with Glencore International Plc, while Sexwale’s Mvelaphanda
Holdings Ltd. has held interests in platinum and diamond mining.  While the deal with Ferrox is an initial agreement subject
to due diligence, Mboweni said he has started talks on
fundraising, adding it would be in tranches over several years.  ‘Pursue Opportunities’  The former governor and a relative, Alto Mboweni, are
founding members of Mboweni Brothers. Friends have joined the
two in the business, the ex-central banker said, declining to
identify them.  “It’s early days and we don’t have any clearly defined
ambitions, just to pursue opportunities as and when they
arise,” he said “We just wouldn’t like it to be spread too
wide.”  Mboweni Brothers may look at secondary areas of aviation.
“There are many areas in aviation such as equipment handling,
luggage handling back-up equipment, and so on,” he said. Mobile
communication is an area of “massive growth,” he said,
declining to go into detail.  Mboweni said he’d like to increase his contribution to the
ANC, where he remains a member. He spent a decade in exile,
getting military training in  Angola  before moving to ANC
headquarters in  Zambia ’s capital, Lusaka, in the 1980s to
research economic policy.  After the ban on the ANC was lifted by the white-minority
National Party government in 1990, he joined the ANC’s economic
policy unit in Johannesburg, working with  Trevor Manuel , who
became finance minister in 1996 after the end of apartheid, and
Maria Ramos, now chief executive officer of Absa Bank Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  