-- South Africa Exporting Corn Risks Depleting Domestic Supplies: Commodities
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s   a n d   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-01-18T13:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/south-africa-exporting-corn-risks-depleting-domestic-supplies-commodities.html
A government-backed plan to export a
record corn surplus may leave South African silos drained of the
country’s staple food by the end of April.  The price of white corn, used to make the corn meal eaten
by many  South Africans , has risen to a record in Johannesburg
and the nation is importing the yellow variety of the grain for
the first time in two years. Millers, chicken producers and
cattle breeders are facing a surge in costs and food inflation
may quicken to as much as 15 percent from 11.1 percent in
November, said Gina Schoeman, an economist at Absa Group Ltd.  The mismanagement that is pushing up food prices and
consumer inflation comes as South Africa grapples with the gap
between rich and poor. It is the most  unequal  of 67 countries
assessed by the  World Bank  and one-fourth of South Africans are
jobless.  “It is clear now that exports were done irresponsibly,”
Chris Schutte, chief executive officer of Pretoria-based  Astral
Foods Ltd. (ARL) , the nation’s second-biggest chicken producer, said
in an interview. The price increases “will hit that section of
the market that can afford it the least.”  Facing a record surplus two years ago after the biggest
crop in almost three decades, farm bodies such as Grain SA,
which represents 7,000 commercial growers, pushed the government
into helping find new corn markets ranging from  South Korea  to
Italy and  Mexico .  “There will be very little maize left in silos come April
30,” said Christo Booyens, assistant general manager for 
Grainlink marketing service at Klerksdorp-based Senwes Ltd., the 
country’s biggest grain-storage company. “Ideally you want about 
six weeks’ stocks to ensure smooth supplies to millers.”  June Deliveries  Corn is also known as maize.  South Africa  will need to import 700,000 tons of corn
between January and July, Jannie de Villiers, the chief
executive officer of Grain SA, said in a phone interview. The
crop will mostly be delivered to silos in June and July,
according to Senwes.  South Africa has exported at least 2.14 million metric tons
of corn in the marketing year that began May 1, compared with
2.07 million tons in all of last season, according to the South
African Grain Information Service, a Pretoria-based industry
body known as Sagis.  “The house is on fire now,” Jozeph du Plessis, chairman
of the Schweizer-Reyneke District Agricultural Union, told a
corn summit called by the Solidarity labor union in August 2010
to discuss what to do about the surplus. “The crisis is here.”  Less Information  At the same time, an antitrust crackdown that led to grain
miller Pioneer Foods Ltd. being fined a record 500 million rand
($62 million) curbed information-sharing in the industry,
leaving buyers unclear on how much corn is leaving the country.  Corn inventories plunged 40 percent in November from a year
earlier, the biggest drop in that month since at least 2000,
Sagis said. Measured in dollars, the price of white corn has
risen 67 percent over the last year on the South African Futures
Exchange in Johannesburg, to about $330, while the benchmark
price of  corn in Chicago  has fallen 9 percent.  Tina Joemat-Pettersson, South  Africa ’s agriculture
minister, told reporters in  Cape Town  in April last year that
the government had been successful in draining a grain surplus
that could have damaged the corn industry.  “We have traders from the East, the  Middle East , the  Far
East ,” she said then. “The interest for our grain and the
maize surplus has become absolutely phenomenal. We have turned
the crisis into a gain.”  Grocery Prices  Retail prices for a 5-kilogram (11-pound) bag of corn meal
in urban areas rose 32 percent in the year to October to an
average of 27.87 rand, according to the National Agricultural
Marketing Council.  Five corn-meal brands sold for an average of 31.77 rand per
5-kilogram bag yesterday at a shop in Sandton, Johannesburg
owned by  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP)  About 39 percent of South
African households live on less than $52 a month, according to
government data.  “The inequality between racial groups is lowering, but it
is increasing within groups. Overall,  income inequality  seems
stable, but there is no sign that it will start coming down
anytime soon,” Servaas van den Berg, an economics professor at
the  University of Stellenbosch , said by phone. “South Africa is
very close to top of the list of most unequal societies in the
world, if not right at the top.”  The price increases are a result of demand and supply
forces in a free market, Simphiwe Ngqangweni, acting director
general of the Department of Agriculture, said on Jan. 12 in an
e-mailed response to questions.  No Approval  While South Africa has traditionally bought corn from
 Argentina  in times of need, that country now produces much of
its grain using a genetically modified seed variety that hasn’t
yet been approved by the African nation for import, Astral
Foods’ Schutte said.  Companies that face a surge in costs include  Tiger Brands
Ltd. (TBS) , South Africa’s largest food company, and Rainbow Chicken
Ltd., Astral’s biggest competitor.  The price spike is the latest disruption caused by
government management of South Africa’s food supply. In 2005,
officials overestimated the size of the crop, driving prices to
a record low and forcing some farmers out of business.  “If it wasn’t for supplies from the Black Sea countries,
South Africa would be in very big trouble,” Schutte said.
“Does it make sense for a country where maize is the basic
foodstuff to export it at 1,400 rand a ton and buy it back at
2,800 rand a ton?”  Romania Shipments  Ships carrying 81,885 tons of Romanian corn have arrived in
South Africa since Dec. 10, according to Sagis. The country has
also imported 58,321 tons of white corn from Zambia this season.
South Africa has shipped corn to Zambia in three of the last
nine years.  Measured in rand, South African corn prices have almost
doubled in the past year. Futures for white corn reached an
intraday record of 2,722 rand a ton on Jan. 9.  Local corn prices may climb to as much as 3,100 rand a ton
in the first quarter, Benjamin Swanepoel, a trader with Trademar
Futures (Pty) Ltd., said from Johannesburg.  Inflation in Africa’s biggest economy accelerated an annual
6.1 percent in December, unchanged from the month before, which
was the most since January 2010. Grains comprise about 3.5
percent of the inflation basket directly and a further 4.5
percent indirectly through meat prices, said Elna Moolman, an
economist at Renaissance BJM in Johannesburg.  White corn makes up half of producers’ feed expenses, which
in turn comprise 30 percent of input costs, Dave Ford, chairman
of the Red Meat Industry Forum, said from Johannesburg. “The
next six months will be tough,” he said.  The nation harvested 10.36 million metric tons of corn in
the season through August, 19 percent less than a year earlier,
the Crop Estimates Committee said on Dec. 1.  The  National Agricultural Marketing Council  is in talks
with the grain industry to make import and export information
more transparent, Ngqangweni said, without providing details.  “It would have been a different story if it wasn’t a basic
food stuff, and if  food security  wasn’t the third priority on
the government’s agenda,” said Schutte. “In such a case, you
need a more comprehensive strategy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net ;
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  