-- Soybean Crops Will Reach 3-Year Low on Dryness, Oil World Says
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-01-17T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/soybean-crops-will-reach-3-year-low-on-dryness-oil-world-says.html
World soybean production will fall
to a three-year low as hot, dry weather threatens output in
 South America , Oil World said.  Harvests will drop to 253.4 million metric tons, 2.3
percent below a December estimate, the researcher said. The
Argentine crop will be 3.8 percent less than last month’s
forecast at 50 million tons,  Brazil ’s production will be 2.5
percent lower at 71 million tons, and Paraguay’s crop estimate
was lowered by 29 percent to 6 million tons, it said.  “The current situation of the South American soybean crop
is worse than reflected in several of the most recent trade
estimates,” Hamburg-based Oil World said today in a report.
“We have already pointed to the severe irreversible damage in
Paraguay and the possibility that the soybean crop will
decline.”  Soybeans were down 2.5 percent this year on the Chicago
Board of Trade by 8:34 a.m.  London  time. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  on Jan. 12 lowered its estimate for global
production of the oilseed by 0.8 percent to 257 million tons and
cut its world stockpile forecast by 1.7 percent to 63.4 million
tons.  Further pressure on prices will be limited because of the
hot, dry weather in South America, Oil World said. Traders who
bet prices would fall last week “overreacted” to a rainstorm
in Argentina and Brazil and to the USDA announcement, the
researcher said.  Dryness persisted in the year’s first 12 days in the
Brazilian states of  Rio Grande  do Sul and Parana, resulting in
“irreversible damage,” Oil World said. Weather in Argentina
and  Paraguay  also curbed yields, the researcher said.  “Although beneficial rains arrived in several important
Argentine growing areas during Jan. 10-12, the soil moisture
supplies are still very short on at least 40 percent of the
soybean area,” Oil World said. “A return of hot and dry
conditions is now forecast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 