-- Soybeans, Corn Advance as China May Ease Policy After Slowdown in Growth
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-01-17T13:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/soybeans-corn-climb-on-forecasts-for-dry-weather-in-argentine-crop-areas.html
Soybeans and corn advanced for the
first time in a week on speculation that  China  will ease
monetary policy after the economy expanded at its slowest pace
in 10 quarters, potentially boosting demand for raw materials.  China’s gross domestic product rose 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
today. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected 8.7 percent
growth. China may ease lending curbs and increase spending to
bolster the world’s second-biggest economy, boosting demand for
grains and oilseeds, said Gary Mead, an analyst at VM Group.  “This must be a reaction to China’s GDP being about what
people thought it would be,” Mead said by phone from London
today. “China’s tight monetary policy might be eased and
therefore Chinese demand will begin to rise.”  Soybeans for March delivery gained 1.6 percent to $11.765 a
bushel by 1:15 p.m.  London  time on the Chicago Board of Trade,
the first gain since Jan. 9. The most-active contract dropped
3.2 percent last week.  Corn for March delivery rose 1.4 percent to $6.0775 a
bushel after slumping 6.8 percent last week. A close at that
price would be the biggest gain since Jan. 3. Trading in Chicago
was closed yesterday for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday in
the U.S.  Prices also gained as drought caused by La Nina persists in
 South America , threatening to curb global supply further.  Corn and soybean crops in  Brazil ’s southernmost state of
 Rio Grande  do Sul will be harmed by more dry weather in the next
10 days, weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia said yesterday.
In  Argentina , the second-largest corn shipper, a heat-wave was
forecast over the next two weeks and little rain was expected,
said Maximiliano Zavala, a forecaster at the Buenos Aires
Cereals Exchange.  Dry Weather  Corn output in Argentina will probably drop to 21.4 million
metric tons in the current growing season, “significantly”
lower than expected, after dry weather damaged the crop, the
Rosario Cereals Exchange said Jan. 13. That’s about a third less
than the 30 million tons expected by Argentine corn group Maizar
in November, before the drought began.  “There’s a question over the size of the South American
crop,” Mead said. “It’s still early and it’s not ruined but
some damage will be done.”  Wheat for March delivery rose 1.6 percent to $6.1175 a
bushel after losing 3.6 percent last week. The price is down 6.3
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net , or
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 