-- Spain’s Borrowing Costs Fall at First Auction Since S&P Rating Downgrade
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-01-17T14:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/spain-sells-4-88-billion-euros-of-debt-as-demand-for-12-month-bills-rises.html
Spanish borrowing costs plunged at
an auction as investors ignored downgrades by  Standard & Poor’s 
to snap up bonds across  Europe  amid evidence that the economic
outlook may be improving.  Spain (GDBR10)  paid an average 2.049 percent to sell 12-month debt
today compared with 4.05 percent on Dec. 13. It sold 18-month
paper at 2.399 percent, down from 4.226 percent last month. The
euro region’s bailout fund also sold bonds, with investors
bidding for 3.1 times the amount available.  Europe’s debt crisis has stabilized for now even after S&P
cut the ratings on nine euro-region members Jan. 13, stripping
France of its AAA grade and lowering Spain by two levels to A.
Bond yields have since slipped in a situation reminiscent of the
rally in U.S. Treasuries after S&P downgraded the world’s
largest economy in August.  “These are cracking auctions for the Spanish Treasury,”
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London , said by e-mail. “The muted reaction to Friday’s well-
flagged S&P downgrades is supporting sentiment.”  The yield on France’s 10-year government bond has declined
7 basis points to 3.029 percent since Jan. 13 and the yield on
Spain’s equivalent security has slipped 12 basis points to 5.069
percent.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said today that
the effect of the French downgrade has been muted.  ECB Financing  Conditions for bond investors may have been helped by the
 European Central Bank ’s decision to pump longer-term emergency
liquidity into the financial system. Under the terms of that
operation, banks can borrow three-year cash from the ECB at 1
percent and use it to buy bonds at debt auctions, a trade that
Spiro said helped today’s auction.  Signs that the euro-area economy has stopped deteriorating
may also be helping to drive bond sales. German investor
confidence jumped the most on record in January, the ZEW Center
for European Economic Research said today, while French and
 German business confidence  rose last month.  Even so, the euro-region crisis might still worsen again.
Greece is insolvent and will probably default, Fitch Ratings
Managing Director  Edward Parker  said today in an interview in
Stockholm. A cut of private-sector debt being negotiated by
Greece, European officials and the  International Monetary Fund 
“clearly is a default in our book,” Parker said.  Debt-Swap Talks  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is due to resume talks
tomorrow with a group representing private Greek bondholders
after a five-day break to discuss forgiving at least half of the
nation’s debt in a bond swap to avoid the euro area’s first
sovereign default.  Negotiations broke off on Jan. 13 with the Institute of
International Finance, which represents Greece’s private
creditors, blaming the breakdown on disagreement over the
coupon, or  interest rate , to be paid on new bonds and on discord
among different authorities involved in the talks.  European leaders including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President Nicolas Sarkozy have sought to insulate the
rest of the euro area from Greece, the region’s most-indebted
country, saying the effort to write off part of its debt is a
unique case, while pledging to keep Greece in the currency area.  Demand for  Spain ’s 12-month bills today was 3.54 times the
amount sold, the Bank of Spain said, compared with 3.14 times
the last time the securities were offered on Dec. 13. The bid-
to-cover ratio for the 18-month notes was 3.23, compared with
4.97 in December. The amount sold was just below the 5 billion
euros ($6.4 billion) set as the maximum target for the auction.  Sentiment ‘Firming’  “These results stand to further underpin the current
firming of peripheral sentiment,”  Richard McGuire , a senior
fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in London,
wrote in an e-mailed note.  The Spanish Treasury, which aims to sell as much as 4.5
billion euros of bonds maturing in 2016, 2019 and 2022 on Jan.
19, has been exceeding the maximum targets it sets for the
auctions since Dec. 13, benefiting from the decline in borrowing
costs.  “Spain will end January having secured 25 percent of its
annual target,”  Riccardo Barbieri , London-based chief European
economist at Mizuho International Plc, wrote in a note after the
downgrade last week. “Negative ratings news should not
overshadow good progress on funding.”  The euro region’s bailout fund also successfully sold bonds
even after S&P downgraded it one level late yesterday. The
European Financial Stability Facility sold 1.501 billion euros
of 182-day bills at an average yield of 0.2664 percent, the
Bundesbank said.  Wolfgang Franz , who heads ZEW and Merkel’s council of
economic advisers, expressed confidence that governments will
master the debt crisis.  The euro “will survive” and still have its current 17
member countries a year from now, Franz said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television’s Maryam Nemazee today. Policy makers
“will do their best to solve the euro crisis with respect to
Italy, but also with respect to  Greece .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  