-- Spain Offers Debt-Pressed Regions Cash, Loans in Next Weeks
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-01-18T12:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/spanish-premier-rajoy-prepared-to-rescue-indebted-regions-1-.html
Spain ’s central government will
provide a credit line and other liquidity measures to ease
pressure on cash-strapped regions while demanding tighter
deficits in return, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said.  The central government in the coming weeks will pay the
regions an 8 billion-euro ($10 billion) transfer that had
initially been scheduled for July, Montoro told radio station
Cadena Ser in an interview today. It will also offer loans via
the Official Credit Institute to help regions settle bills for
suppliers in a couple of months, he said.  “We are submitting these mechanisms on the condition that
the regions present fiscally viable plans,” said Montoro. He
first announced the measures yesterday after meeting with
regional finance chiefs following a pledge by Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  to “rescue” regions with liquidity problems.  The 17 semi-autonomous regions control more than a third of
Spain’s public spending, including health and education, and
caused the nation to miss its budget-deficit target last year.
The liquidity measures are designed not to affect the deficit,
skirting a law forbidding direct bailouts.  Yields Stable  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond was 5.125
percent at 1:20 p.m. in  Madrid , compared with 5.134 percent
yesterday. The yield difference with equivalent-maturity German
bunds was 334 basis points.  Spain is copying European fiscal rules to “introduce
discipline,” Montoro said, as he raised the possibility of
pursuing politicians who overspend with criminal charges.  “A manager of public funds can’t spend more than his
budget,” he said in the interview.  The size of the  credit line  from the state-backed ICO,
designed to allow regions to pay off debts accumulated to
suppliers, is still to be determined, Montoro said yesterday.
Regions will also get an extra five years to pay off 31 billion
euros they owe the central government, he said.  Many regions are shut out of public-debt markets. Valencia,
the most indebted, was forced to delay repayment of a loan due
to Deutsche Bank AG in December by a week.  Regional Spreads  The spread between the yield on 2020 bonds of Catalonia,
the wealthiest region with an economy the size of  Portugal ’s,
and Spain’s today narrowed to 435.1 basis points from 436.2
basis points yesterday. That’s about a percentage point more
than the yield gap between Spanish and German borrowing costs.  “We are going to ask the regions to meet their 2012
deficit targets and to have spending and debt ceilings, and we
are willing, if some have liquidity problems, to rescue them,”
Rajoy told a joint news conference with European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy  in Madrid yesterday.  The People’s Party government, in office since December,
also plans to pass a stability law to flesh out the details of a
constitutional amendment on balanced budgets that the previous
Socialist government passed in September with Rajoy’s support.
Montoro discussed the bill with the regional chiefs and said
there was “broad support” for budget stability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  