-- Spectra May Bid for Kinder Morgan’s Rockies Pipelines, CEO Says
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-01-17T20:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/spectra-may-bid-for-kinder-morgan-s-rockies-pipelines-ceo-says.html
Spectra Energy Corp. (SE)  would consider
buying natural-gas pipelines in the Rocky Mountains if  Kinder
Morgan (KMI)  Inc. and  El Paso Corp. (EP)  are seeking to sell assets as part
of their merger.  “If they come up for sale, just like any other pipeline,
we’d look at it,” Spectra CEO Gregory Ebel said in an interview
today at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “There’s
probably some opportunities in the south, definitely some of the
Rockies assets.”  Kinder Morgan  said Oct. 16 it will buy El Paso for $20.7
billion in cash and stock, creating the largest U.S. gas
pipeline network. The companies may have to sell some pipelines
to get federal approval, expected by the middle of the year,
Kinder Morgan CEO Richard Kinder told employees the day after
the deal was announced.  Spectra, based in Houston, owns 19,300 miles (31,000
kilometers) of gas transmission lines and is spending $1.3
billion to expand its network this year. The company may double
its  capital spending  in three or four years, Ebel said.  Spectra is less likely to bid for any pipelines sold as
 Energy Transfer Equity LP (ETE)  buys  Southern Union Co. (SUG) , he said.  “Kinder is probably the more likely for us to look at
rather than the Southern Union-Energy Transfer deal,” Ebel
said.  Companies will have to spend $6 billion to $10 billion
annually during the next 20 years to connect new shale-gas
fields to pipelines, according to a January 2009  study  by the
Interstate Natural Gas Association of America, a Washington-
based industry group.  “There’s no doubt building your assets is cheaper than
buying,” Ebel said. “But when you buy assets that are already
built, you take out some of the execution risk,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  