-- Spectra Expects to Be Involved in North American LNG Exports
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-01-17T21:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/spectra-expects-to-be-involved-in-north-american-lng-exports.html
Spectra Energy Corp. (SE)  will have
“some involvement” in what it estimates will be three to six
facilities built to export North American natural gas, Chief
Executive Officer Gregory Ebel said.  Spectra, based in Houston, owns pipelines that carry gas
along the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and from fields in British
Columbia, two areas where export terminals have been proposed,
Ebel said in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York
today.  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  is exploring multibillion-dollar
projects to convert import terminals in Louisiana and Texas to
liquefy and export gas.  Apache Corp. (APA) ,  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  and
Encana Corp. have proposed a liquefied natural gas export
terminal at Kitimat on Canada’s West Coast.  “Our pipelines go right by all those facilities, really,”
Ebel said. “You’ll probably see three to six of those get
built. I would expect we’ll have some involvement in all of
them.”  A boom in gas production from shale formations has prompted
companies to explore potential exports of the fuel. Liquefaction
facilities would cool gas to a liquid form, making it easier to
transport on ships.  Cheniere may be able start exporting LNG by 2015 or 2016,
according to information on its website. Apache, EOG and Encana
said last year they may begin exporting gas from Kitimat by
2015.  An export terminal on  Canada ’s Pacific coast would be
closer to potential customers in Asia. It would cost $2 billion
to $4 billion to build a pipeline across the Rocky Mountains to
supply the terminal, Ebel said.  Exporting from the U.S. Gulf Coast would be simpler because
there are existing pipelines in the area, Ebel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  