-- Sub-Sahara Africa Stocks: Air Mauritius, Nigerian Breweries Move
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-17T15:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/sub-sahara-africa-stocks-air-mauritius-nigerian-breweries-move.html
The  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-
Share Index (NGSEINDX)  jumped 1.2 percent to 21,072.27 at the close in
Lagos, according to a statement on the bourse’s website, the
first gain in three days.  The  FTSE/Namibia Overall Index (FTN098)  advanced for a fourth day,
increasing 1.1 percent to 893.1 in Windhoek, the highest since
April. Kenya’s  All-Share Index (NSEASI)  fell 0.1 percent to 55.16 in
Nairobi. Mauritius’s  SEMDEX Index (SEMDEX)  rose less than 0.1 percent to
1,872.91 by the end of trading.  The following shares were active in sub-Saharan Africa,
excluding  South Africa . Stock symbols are in parentheses.  Air Mauritius Ltd. (AML)  , sub-Saharan Africa’s fourth-
largest airline, retreated for a fourth day, falling 2.1 percent
to 14 rupees, the lowest close since Oct. 13, as the European
debt crisis damped demand for leisure stocks.  “The mood is negative on hotels and airlines,” Bhavik
Desai, a research analyst at AXYS Stockbroking Ltd., said in a
phone interview from the city.  Nigerian Breweries Plc (NB)  , the country’s biggest
brewer by market value, jumped 5 percent, the maximum daily
limit, to 98.76 naira, the biggest gain since Dec. 22, as
investors bet the company will raise dividend payments, PAC
Securities said.  “The stock is moving on speculation that its full-year
result will be good and that it will pay a higher dividend for
the full year to December, based on its third-quarter results,”
Eugene Ezenwa, chief operating officer of PAC Securities, a
Lagos-based brokerage, said by phone today.  PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc (PZ)  , which manufactures and
sells consumer goods and home appliances, surged 5 percent, the
maximum daily limit, to 29.4 naira, the biggest rise since July
29, amid speculation that pension fund managers may be buying
into the company.  “It could be that a pension fund administrator is taking a
position on the stock,” David Adonri, chief executive officer
of Lambeth Trust and Investment Co., said by phone from Lagos.  Rea Vipingo Plantations Ltd. (RVPL)  , a Kenyan sisal
producer and spinner, rose for the first time in four days,
gaining 2 percent to 15 shillings, after saying full-year profit
soared to 467.2 million shillings ($5.4 million) for the 12
months through September, compared with 67.4 million shillings a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  