-- Sudan Frees Government Critic Mohamed Hassan Alim Who Appeared on YouTube
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-01-17T14:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/sudan-frees-government-critic-mohamed-hassan-alim-who-appeared-on-youtube.html
Mohamed Hassan Alim, a Sudanese
activist who gained notoriety for a confrontation with a top
presidential adviser that was posted on YouTube, was released
today after spending 24 days in jail.  Alim said he was taken from his home by plainclothes armed
men on Dec. 26, blindfolded and held in Kober prison in
Khartoum, the capital. He was picked up after the  YouTube video 
appeared of his confrontation with presidential adviser Nafie
Ali Nafie at an Islamic student meeting where he accused the
government of corruption, nepotism and human-rights violations.
Nafie denied he had anything to do with Alim’s detention, the
state-run  Sudan Media Centre  reported yesterday.  “No one would tell you what’s happening or what’s next,”
he said of his detention in a telephone interview today. “I
didn’t know if I was going to be killed, held in prison forever,
or if was going to see my family again.”  Alim, a 29-year-old engineering student, became known on
Twitter as  Sudan ’s Mohamed Bouazizi, a street trader who helped
spark the Arab Spring with his self-immolation in December 2010.
A FreeAlim campaign appeared on Twitter, while London-based
Amnesty International issued an  “urgent action”  statement on
Jan. 3, saying he faced “a serious risk of torture.”  The national security service said Alim was arrested for
“inciting students to take to the streets and attack police
forces” during a protest last month at Khartoum University in
support of people displaced by the  Merowe Dam , north of
Khartoum, the Sudan Media Centre said, citing the head of the
National Intelligence and Security Service’s information office.  Held Incommunicado  Alim has been detained several times by national security
since he became politically active in 2005. He was released
without charge on March 13 after being held incommunicado for 45
days,  Amnesty International  said.  At least 73 students were arrested last month during a sit-
in at Khartoum University to protest police violence and demand
the overthrow of the government.  “Since the Arab Spring, the authorities have been focusing
their attention on the students and young people because they
know they are now the most powerful,” Wagdy Salheh, a member of
a committee of 30 lawyers defending Alim, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  