-- Sudan’s Aid Block Risks ‘Full-Scale Famine,’ Rice of U.S. Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-01-17T21:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/sudan-s-aid-block-risks-full-scale-famine-rice-of-u-s-says.html
The U.S. today warned that  Sudan ’s
oil-rich Southern Kordofan is on the verge of a “full-scale
famine” unless the government in Khartoum stops blocking aid.  “This conflict has affected more than 500,000 people, and
if there is not a substantial new inflow of aid by March” the
situation in Southern Kordofan will be “one step short of full-
scale famine,” U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations  Susan Rice 
told reporters in New York.  The government has “deliberately denied access” to
international aid and UN workers in the conflict areas of
Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile, which are the most affected by
food shortages, Rice said. Her concerns were spelled out in a
Jan. 16 letter to the president of the UN Security Council,
 South Africa ’s Baso Sangqu.  Rice spoke after the UN’s chief relief coordinator, Valerie Amos, gave the 15-member body a report today on the region’s
worsening humanitarian crisis.  Fighting in border states has intensified since  South Sudan 
seceded on July 9, assuming control of the former state’s oil
production of 490,000 barrels a day. President Umar al-Bashir’s
government is battling members of the Sudan People’s Liberation
Movement-North. The group, which was part of South Sudan’s
ruling party until the south’s independence, is banned by
Sudan’s government.  The refugee crisis adds to challenges faced by South Sudan,
which is struggling to accommodate about 800,000 returnees,
refugees and internally displaced people, according to the UN’s
high commissioner for refugees,  Antonio Guterres .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at the United Nations at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net . 