-- Supervalu-Led Stores Chasing $55 Billion in Food Stamps: Retail
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-01-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/supervalu-led-stores-chasing-55-billion-in-food-stamps-retail.html
Supermarkets that had been adding
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  cafes and olive bars to draw wealthy shoppers
are now catering to a different audience: food-stamp recipients.  Stores are moving their opening hours, adding products and
revamping merchandise assortments as persistent joblessness
pushes more shoppers to government support in buying groceries.
Distributions from the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program rose 11 percent to a record $71.8 billion in fiscal
2011, according to a U.S. Department of Agriculture  report .  Supervalu Inc. (SVU) ’s 1,280-store Save-A-Lot chain opens some
supermarkets at midnight, when government benefits are loaded
onto food-stamp cards, and promotes higher-priced bulk items
early in the month. The chain switches to smaller sizes later as
money dwindles and customers make fill-in purchases.  “What we’re learning how to do is to merchandise to those
events,” Chief Executive Officer Craig Herkert said in an
interview. “You have to learn, market by market, when is that,
and you have to merchandise to it, and in some cases, run your
stores to it.”  A great deal is at stake for large grocers and
supercenters. About 85 percent, or $54.8 billion, of all  food
stamps  were spent there in  2010 , according to the USDA. Food
stamps account for about 40 percent of sales at Save-A-Lot, up
from 26 percent two years ago, and their use is spreading at
 Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based Supervalu’s Acme, Albertsons and
Shaw’s chains, Herkert said. The number of people receiving
government food assistance is “shocking,” he said.  Keeping Customers  Some relief for food-stamp recipients may be near.
Economists have estimated that more new jobs will be created
this year than any time since 2006. The number of Americans
receiving food stamps  fell  to 46.2 million in October, the most
recent month for which data is available, as the labor market
improved. The 0.1 percent decline from the previous month is the
second such drop since 2008, the USDA said Jan. 6.  Still, the stores’ new strategies will be around for a
while. The  unemployment  rate has averaged higher than 9 percent
for the past two years and an estimated 29 percent of Americans
owed more than the market value of their homes in the third
quarter, according to a Zillow Inc. survey.  While food-stamp recipients buy less-expensive items that
don’t offer the higher margins of other food, it’s important
that retailers market to lower-income consumers because “you
want those clients coming into your store, not going somewhere
else,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow Financial
Inc. in Chicago.  Hitting More Neighborhoods  “It’s important to be positioned to deal with it,” she
said. “It has hit a lot more neighborhoods than people once
thought, so you’ve got to compete in that arena.”  That has pushed Supervalu to highlight boneless chicken
breasts for $1.49 a pound early in the month and legs and thighs
for 88 cents a pound later.  Save-A-Lot in June introduced a lower-priced store brand
called “Today,” which includes a four-roll package of toilet
paper for 89 cents and four-ounce instant mashed potatoes for 79
cents.  Supervalu also started offering individual portions of meat
for $1 and is adding 80 lower-cost items under its Shoppers
Value brand. The company has expanded shelf space and displays
of cheaper goods, including 10-for-$10 items and $1 frozen
pizzas, Herkert said on a conference call in October.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  adjusts staffing at midnight when
benefits cards are loaded and makes sure stores are well stocked
in produce and canned goods, said Greg Rossiter, a spokesman for
the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company.  ‘To The Minute’  “We are seeing customers on government assistance timing
their shopping at the beginning of the month to the minute and
the second” of when benefits are loaded, Rossiter said. “Some
of them are doing shopping for the month or that night or that
day,” he said, so they also are looking for frozen food and
other items that will keep throughout the month.  Recipients spend an average of 21 percent of their benefit
on the day it’s received and 59 percent within the first week,
according to a USDA study. The  money  can be used to buy meat,
dairy, fresh produce and dry goods such as cereal and pasta.
Alcohol, cigarettes, pet food, vitamins and hot foods aren’t
allowed.  Drugstores and dollar stores are trying to woo those
customers, too.  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  finished overhauling
its checkout systems to accept food stamps in 2010.  That business “is growing like weeds and is an important
part of the food strategy” Howard Levine, chairman and CEO of
the Matthews, North Carolina-based company, said at a conference
in April.  Michigan  Strategy  Last year, the State of Michigan staggered the days when
its food-benefit cards are loaded, giving grocers a reprieve
from long checkout lines at the beginning of each month.  “It helped the stores to offer more of those fresh fruits,
meat, veggies and dairy products throughout the month,” said
Dave Akerly, a spokesman for the Michigan Department of Human
Services in Lansing. The change makes it “less congested” at
grocery stores, he said.  In Michigan, $2.77 billion in supplemental-nutrition
benefits were redeemed in fiscal 2010, making it the fifth-
largest state in terms of food-stamp receipts, according to the
USDA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  