-- U.K. Inflation Slowed to Six-Month Low of 4.2% in December
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-01-17T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/u-k-inflation-slows-to-weakest-pace-in-six-months-led-by-fuel-clothing.html
U.K. inflation slowed in December to
its weakest pace in six months led by fuel and clothing, easing
pressure on consumers amid concern the economy may already be
back in recession.  Consumer prices rose an annual 4.2 percent compared with
4.8 percent in November, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today in London. The figure was in line with the median forecast
of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Prices rose 0.4
percent from November.  The Bank of England forecasts inflation will slow sharply
this year, providing relief to consumers as the European
sovereign debt crisis and rising unemployment weigh on the
recovery. Ernst & Young said yesterday a second recession may
already be under way. The Bank of England will expand is 275
billion-pound ($423 billion) bond-buying program next month,
economists at Citigroup Inc. and Nomura International predict.  “The inflation news is going to be the one bright spot for
the British consumer this year,” Philip Rush, an economist at
Nomura, said before the report. “With so much uncertainty on
the outlook we can’t expect anything too sensational from them.
The bank is going to increase the target for QE next month and
again in May.”  Core annual inflation, which excludes alcohol, food,
tobacco and energy prices, slowed to 3 percent from 3.2 percent.
Retail-price inflation, a measure used in wage negotiations,
slowed to 4.8 percent from 5.2 percent. The retail-price index
excluding mortgage-interest payments rose 5 percent, down from
5.3 percent.  Cheaper Clothing  The drop in CPI inflation last month was the most since
April 2009, when it also fell by 0.6 percentage point.  The monthly increase in consumer prices compared with a 1
percent gain a year earlier as prices of clothing and footwear
and alcoholic drinks declined. Retailers including Marks &
Spencer Plc and Tesco Plc cut prices in December to lure cash-
strapped shoppers during the key holiday trading period. Upward
pressure came from the prices of landline and mobile telephone
charges.  The  Bank of England  predicts that inflation, which has been
above its 2 percent target for more than two years, will ease to
1.7 percent at end of 2012 as a January 2011 sales-tax increase
drops out of the annual comparison and energy costs decline.  Crude  oil prices  have fallen to $99.65 a barrel from about
$115 a barrel in May 2010, easing pressure on companies and
consumers. E.On yesterday became the latest of the U.K.’s
largest energy suppliers to trim prices, jostling to offer the
cheapest supply as wholesale fuel costs fall.  Ernst & Young’s ITEM Club said yesterday the economy will
probably shrink in the current quarter after contracting in the
last three months of 2011, with no improvement until mid-year.
The group cut its 2012 growth forecast to 0.2 percent from 1.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  