-- U.K. Smart-Meters May Fail Older People, Poor, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-01-17T18:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/u-k-smart-meter-plan-may-fail-old-people-poor-lawmakers-say.html
The U.K.’s 11.7 billion-pound ($18
billion) plan to install so-called smart meters to measure gas
and electricity use in every home may disadvantage poor and
elderly people, a panel of lawmakers said.  The meters, designed to show consumers how much energy
they’re using and at what tariff, will make it easier for
utilities to cut off a home’s gas and power supplies, the Public
Accounts Committee said today in an e-mailed report. It urged
the government to set clear rules for an industry that’s
dominated by six companies, including EON AG and  Centrica Plc. (CNA)   “Smart meters will allow energy companies to disconnect
customers without entering the property,”  Margaret Hodge ,
chairwoman of the multiparty panel, said in a statement.
Officials must “ensure that there are proper safeguards to
protect the vulnerable, elderly and those on low incomes to
ensure they benefit from the program.”  Britain plans to install 53 million smart meters in homes
and businesses by 2020 to cut electricity use and lower  carbon
emissions . Meter-makers including  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  SAP AG (SAP) ,
 Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Landis+Gyr unit and  Elster Group SE (ELT)  are lining
up to grab a slice of the market, and have formed an alliance to
develop common standards.  “The benefits of smart meters are 18.7 billion pounds from
an 11.7 billion-pound investment,” Energy Minister  Charles
Hendry  said in an e-mailed response to today’s report. “Smart
meters will mean more accurate information and an end to
estimated billing, so no more nasty surprises for consumers.”  Mass Roll-out  A mass roll-out of meters is due to start in 2014, with the
installation and running costs paid for by consumers through
their utility bills, largely with the “Big Six” utilities:
Electricite de France SA, EON, SSE Plc, Centrica,  RWE AG (RWE) ’s
Npower unit and  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s Scottish Power division.  Those suppliers are likely to benefit from reduced costs as
a result of the meters because fewer staff will be needed to
take manual readings, according to the panel.  “No transparent mechanism presently exists for ensuring
savings to the supplier are passed on,” Hodge said. “The track
record of energy companies to date does not inspire confidence
that this will happen.”  The lawmakers also said in today’s report that the
Department of Energy and Climate Change must conduct proper
trials of a planned 3 billion-pound computing system designed to
transmit and process data from the meters, and clarify
suppliers’ responsibility for ensuring people know how to use
the devices to cut energy costs.  Energy Savings  The devices will give consumers more control over how they
use energy at home and at work, cutting energy waste and saving
money, Hendry said.  “It’s impossible to get transparency without smart
meters,”  Chris King , Chief Regulatory Officer at  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s
eMeter unit, said in a telephone interview from San Mateo,
 California  today. “All bills are based on estimates and so
savings are also estimates.”  Smart metering will make it easier to bill consumers more
accurately and help them save energy when prices are at their
highest, he said. eMeter manages software for about 40 million
meters globally and is looking to offer its systems in Britain,
according to King.  “Past performance suggests that competition does not work
effectively in this market and should not be relied on to keep
prices low,” the panel said.  “The Department needs to ensure that the vulnerable, those
on low incomes and those who use prepayment meters also benefit
from smart meters. It would be unacceptable if these consumers
bore the costs of smart meters through higher charges without
getting a share of the potential benefits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  