-- U.S. Regulators to Defend Volcker Rule Ban on Proprietary Trades
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-01-18T16:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/u-s-regulators-to-defend-proprietary-trading-ban-before-house-committee.html
U.S.  House Republicans  pressed
regulators on the merits of a proposal to ban banks from trading
for their own accounts, as one official acknowledged the rule
could put banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  at a competitive disadvantage.  Banks without U.S. operations could benefit because foreign
jurisdictions haven’t adopted measures resembling those proposed
in the Volcker rule, Acting Comptroller of the Currency  John Walsh  said today at a House Financial Services joint
subcommittee hearing in Washington.  “U.S. banks competing with these foreign banks will
operate at a competitive disadvantage,” Walsh said in his
prepared remarks, responding to a question from the panel’s
Republican members.  Regulators have been on the defensive since the  Federal
Reserve  and three other agencies released a first draft of the
rule in October. Lawmakers, financial firms and international
regulators have faulted the 298-page  proposal  as too complex and
potentially damaging for financial markets.  “The proprietary trading prohibition in the Volcker Rule
statute itself will undoubtedly affect the trading behavior of
banking entities,” said Fed Governor Daniel K. Tarullo.
“Indeed, that is what Congress intended.”  Proprietary Trading  The proposed rule named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who championed the idea as an aide to President  Barack Obama , would ban banks from proprietary trading while allowing
them to continue short-term trades for market-making or hedging.
It also would limit their investments in private-equity and
hedge funds. The rule, required by the Dodd-Frank Act, must be
in place by July 21.  Congress included the rule in Dodd-Frank to curb risky
trading by banks that benefit from  deposit insurance  and Fed
discount window borrowing. Financial firms, in  comment letters 
to regulators and in public statements, have said the rule may
restrict market liquidity, specifically in corporate bonds.  The measure as proposed by regulators would be a “self-
inflicted wound,” House Financial Services Committee Chairman
 Spencer Bachus  said at today’s hearing.  “The rule’s impact on market liquidity, access to credit,
the cost of capital and job creation will unnecessarily stifle
the growth of businesses that operate far from Wall Street, and
hamper the ability of asset managers, pension funds and
insurance companies to grow their portfolios for millions of
individual investors,” said Bachus, an Alabama Republican.  Overly Complex  Republicans and Democrats at today’s hearing echoed the
banking industry’s view that regulators have created a measure
that is overly complex and difficult to understand.  “The result of their efforts is a proposed rule that is
nearly 300 pages long, and asks more than 1,300 questions for
comment from market participants,” said Representative Shelley Moore Capito, a West Virginia Republican who leads one of the
two subcommittees holding today’s hearing. “This has led to
significant confusion -- and I will put myself in that boat --
and many unanswered questions over the consequences.”  Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat, said
the complexity stems in part from regulators’ efforts to meet
the needs of the financial industry.  “A very simple rule could have been formulated, but it
would not have accommodated the concerns you have of the
financial institutions,” said Frank, who led the Financial
Services Committee during the talks that yielded the regulatory
law that bears his name. “So to some degree they are
complaining about you having accommodated them.”  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar
addressed the Volcker rule during an investor call after the
company reported fourth-quarter financial results today, saying
the  Wall Street  firm wants to ensure the measure doesn’t inhibit
“the free flow of capital and the growth of the U.S.”  “We want to make sure that the market making rules are not
written in such a way that they make it so onerous for us and
not just us but for all the firms to continue our market making
function,” Viniar said.  Consumer groups and Volcker rule supporters have leaned on
regulators to stick to the implementation timeline and fought
assertions that the measure will damage  capital markets .  Financial firms’ arguments “are all founded on the
irrational assumption that, once bank proprietary trading ceases
under the Volcker Rule, others will not expand to meet demand,”
Wallace C. Turbeville, a former Goldman Sachs banker, said in
 testimony  prepared for the hearing on behalf of  Americans for
Financial Reform , a coalition of consumer groups, labor unions
and civil rights law firms.  ‘Specious’  “It is specious to the point of misleading to suggest that
the needs for liquidity currently provided by banks will not be
filled,” Turbeville said.  Tarullo called the proposal released by regulators “the
most feasible,” knocking down alternatives including self-
reporting of violations of principles-based rules by covered
firms or creating “definitive bright lines” on what type of
trading is permitted or banned.  “The more nuanced framework contained in our proposal was
designed to realize some of the advantages of both of these
approaches while minimizing their potential adverse effects,”
Tarullo said in prepared remarks.  Regulators Pressured  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican who
leads one of the two panels holding today’s hearing, has joined
Bachus and other lawmakers in calling on regulators to resubmit
the proposal and consider extending the implementation timeline.  “If the proposed regulations are implemented in their
current form, those regulations will dramatically reduce
liquidity across multiple markets, which will in turn make it
more expensive for businesses to borrow, invest in research and
development and create jobs,” Bachus and a group of lawmakers
wrote in a Dec. 7  letter  to regulators.  Regulators, bowing to pressure from lawmakers and industry
groups including the Financial Services Roundtable and the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, announced in December a 30-day extension of
the comment period to Feb. 13. The extension also gave the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission time to complete its
largely similar proposal, which was released for comment on Jan.
11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  