-- U.S. Judge Won’t Delay Madoff-Mets Trial for Trustee’s Immediate Appeal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-01-18T00:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/u-s-judge-won-t-delay-madoff-mets-trial-for-trustee-s-immediate-appeal.html
A U.S. judge refused to endorse an
appeal of his decision dismissing most of a $1 billion claim by
the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm against the owners of
the  New York Mets , saying it would delay a trial in the case.  The trustee,  New York  lawyer  Irving Picard , is trying to
appeal a September ruling by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff that
threw out most of his claims against the Mets’ owners and
permits him to pursue only about $386 million in claims. Rakoff
said the trustee can appeal after a trial, set to begin
March 19.  “With the trial of this case firmly set to begin just two
months from now, the main effect of granting the trustee’s
motion would be to materially delay, rather than materially
advance, the ultimate termination of the litigation,” Rakoff
wrote in today’s decision.  In his September ruling, Rakoff dismissed all or part of
nine out of 11 claims in Picard’s suit against  Fred Wilpon  and
Saul Katz. Picard claimed Rakoff’s ruling could affect as many
as 70 other cases against former Madoff investors who, like the
Mets’ owners, withdrew more from their accounts over the years
than they invested with the con man.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, declined to comment,
saying the trustee and his counsel are reviewing the decision.  Picard originally demanded $300 million in profit and
$700 million in principal from Wilpon, Katz and a group of
family members and related entities, saying they turned a blind
eye to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. The partners denied the
allegation.  Rakoff, a fan of the  New York Yankees , cited a quotation
usually attributed to that team’s Hall of Fame catcher,  Yogi Berra .  “Whether on the ball field or in court, ‘It ain’t over
till it’s over’ is both shrewd observation and sound advice,”
the judge said.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  