-- Samantha Stosur Slips to New Low at Australian Open After Win in New York
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-17T14:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/u-s-open-women-s-champion-samantha-stosur-loses-australian-open-1st-round.html
Samantha Stosur followed her first
career Grand Slam singles title with a new low at her home major
in Melbourne.  The Australian yesterday lost to 59th-ranked Sorana Cirstea
of  Romania , becoming the first women’s U.S. Open champion since
tennis went professional in 1968 to subsequently lose in the
first round of the Australian Open, according to the Women’s
Tennis Association.  “I’m probably very close to crying, having a really awful
night,” Stosur told reporters after her 7-6 (7-2), 6-3 defeat
at Rod Laver Arena. “It’s hard to suppress those emotions when
it means so much to you.”  Stosur’s bid to become the first native to win the
Australian Open in 34 years lasted 91 minutes. Chris O’Neil’s
run to women’s title as an unseeded player in 1978 was the last
local success. Of the four Grand Slams, only Wimbledon has had a
longer wait for a home champion.  In 10 appearances in the main draw at  Melbourne  Park,
Stosur has managed 14 wins. Her best performance came in 2006
and 2010, when she reached the fourth round. Yesterday’s defeat
was her third opening-round loss.  “Third, fourth rounds obviously aren’t where you want to
go, but certainly better than a first round,” Stosur added.
“All you can do is come back next year and keep trying. I want
to do better here.”  Stosur, a former top-ranked doubles player, became the
first Australian woman to win one of the four Grand Slam singles
titles since Evonne Goolagong Cawley in 1980 when she beat
 Serena Williams  in September’s U.S. Open final.  ‘Breaking Down’  Carrying the weight of local expectation into her home
swing of tournaments at the start of 2012 has affected her game,
Stosur said. She lost in the second round in  Brisbane  before
suffering a first-round exit in Sydney.  “It affects you physically,” she said. “That’s probably
the easiest sign for the outside people to see. When anyone’s
nervous, I think the first thing that goes is your footwork. You
don’t move your feet as well. Once that breaks down, it’s easy
for other things to start breaking down.”  Stosur made 33 unforced errors against Cirstea, a 21-year-
old whose best performance at a Grand Slam is reaching the 2009
French Open quarterfinals. The Australian, who had won their two
previous meetings, saved three match points before making three
forehand errors in a row to end the match.  “She just won the  U.S. Open ,” said Cirstea, who will next
play unseeded Pole Urszula Radwanska. “She had a lot of
pressure on her shoulders.”  Slam Hangover  Stosur isn’t alone in experiencing a letdown after winning
a Grand Slam title. Of the three other women’s champions in
2011, none of them made it past the second round at the
subsequent major.  Belgium ’s  Kim Clijsters  andLi Na of  China  lost in the
second round at the French Open and Wimbledon after taking the
titles at Melbourne Park and  Roland Garros  earlier in the year.
Petra Kvitova of the  Czech Republic  followed her Wimbledon
triumph with a first-round exit at the U.S. Open.  “I don’t know why it seems to be happening more often than
not right now,” Stosur said. “I’m sure if we could all change
the way we’ve responded straight after winning a Grand Slam, we
would have. Part of it is just that heightened expectation of
wanting to do well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  