-- U.S. Government Arranged Most Loans for Clean Energy in 2011
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-01-17T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/u-s-government-arranged-most-loans-for-clean-energy-in-2011.html
The U.S. government pushed ahead of
development banks in  Europe  and  Brazil  to arrange the most
financing for clean energy projects last year, distributing
incentives from President Barack Obama’s administration.  The Federal Financing Bank completed 13 deals worth $10.1
billion for projects including  BrightSource Energy Inc (BRSE) . Ivanpah
solar thermal plant, according to a study of the industry’s top
20 lenders by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Spending was lifted by government support such as the
Treasury Department’s 1603 cash grant program that expired in
December and the Production Tax Credit offering 2.2 cents a
kilowatt-hour of wind through the end of this year. The programs
pushed U.S. funding for clean energy past  China ’s for the first
time since 2008 last year, the London-based researcher said.  “Before anyone in  Washington  celebrates too much, the U.S.
figure was achieved thanks in large part to support
initiatives” that are expiring, Michael Liebreich, chief
executive of New Energy Finance, said in a statement. “There
may be a rush to get projects completed in 2012 followed by a
slump in investment in 2013.”  In a separate list,  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. invested the most in the industry among private
equity and venture capital funds.  Innovation Network Corp of
Japan  ranked second.  Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers  completed
the biggest number of deals.  Beating Brazil  The U.S. position among loan arrangers rose from third
place last year, when it trailed the European Investment bank
and Brazil’s development bank, known by its initials BNDES.  Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
remained in second place this year after arranging deals
including the $477 million  Renova Energia SA (RNEW11)  Bahia Wind Farm
Portfolio I financing. The EIB dropped to ninth place.  Bank of America Corp . came third this year after remaining
outside the ranking in 2010. It arranged a $2.5 billion deal to
finance the Project Amp solar plant by  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) ,
according to the New Energy Finance ranking.  Clean energy investment in the U.S. rose 33 percent last
year to $55.9 billion while in China it increased 1 percent to
$47.4 billion.  The U.S. cash grant, which offered as much as 30 percent of
development and construction costs for renewable energy plants,
expired on Dec. 31.  The Production Tax Credit is due to lapse at the end of
this year.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s biggest wind
turbine maker, said last week it may eliminate 1,600 jobs in the
U.S. if the incentive is not prolonged.  The last time the production tax credit, or PTC, was
allowed to expire, at the end of 2003, U.S. annual wind
installations declined, to 397 megawatts in 2004 from 1,670
megawatts the previous year, according to data from the  American
Wind Energy Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  