-- U.S. January Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-01-17T13:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/u-s-january-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
manufacturing activity expanded in New York State in January.
The general business conditions index climbed points to 13.5.
The new orders index rose eight points to 13.7 and the shipments
index inched up to 21.7. The prices paid index was positive and
slightly higher than it was last month while the prices received
index jumped twenty points to 23.1, indicating a significant
pickup in selling prices. Employment indexes were positive and
higher, pointing to higher employment levels and a longer
average workweek. Future indexes conveyed a high degree of
optimism about the six-month outlook, with the future general
business conditions index rising nine points to 54.9, its
highest level since January 2011.  On a series of supplementary survey questions, 51 percent
of respondents indicated that they expect their workforces to
increase over the next six to twelve months, while just 9
percent predicted declines in the total number of workers--
results noticeably more positive than in the June 2011 survey.
The current results were slightly more positive for larger
establishments (150 or more employees) than for smaller ones.
High expected sales growth was widely deemed to be the most
important factor among those who planned to add workers. When
asked about anticipated changes in wages per worker, 80 percent
of respondents indicated that wages would increase by less than
5 percent and almost all of the remaining 20 percent said wages
would stay about the same. When asked about changes in benefits
per worker, however, a sizable proportion, 37 percent, estimated
that increases would exceed 5 percent.  Business Activity Continues to Pick Up  Business conditions improved in January, with the general
business conditions index rising five points to 13.5. This index
has been on a clear upward trend since October 2011. In January,
35 percent of respondents indicated that conditions improved
over the month while 22 percent reported a worsening. The new
orders index climbed eight points to 13.7 and the shipments
index inched up two points to 21.7. The unfilled orders index
rose ten points but remained negative at -5.5. The delivery time
index fell to -3.3, suggesting a slight decrease in delivery
times. The inventories index rose into positive territory for
the first time in several months, climbing ten points to 6.6,
indicating that inventory levels increased modestly.  Selling Prices Jump  The prices paid index rose two points to 26.4, indicating
that input prices increased at a pace similar to that of last
month. The prices received index jumped twenty points to 23.1,
pointing to a significant pickup in selling prices, with just
over a quarter of respondents increasing their prices in January.
Employment indexes were positive and higher than they were last
month, indicating that manufacturers had increased their
workforces and the length of the average workweek had risen. The
number of employees index rose ten points to 12.1 and the
average workweek index rose nine points to 6.6.  A Highly Optimistic Six-Month Outlook  The six-month outlook continued to gain momentum in January.
The future general business conditions index rose nine points to
54.9, its highest level since January 2011. This index has risen
nearly forty points since October. The future new orders and
shipments indexes were also at similarly high levels. While
future price indexes were somewhat lower for the month, they
remained at relatively high levels, suggesting that input price
increases and selling price increases are widely expected in the
months ahead. The future index for number of employees rose four
points to 28.6 while the future index for average workweek fell
five points to 17.6. The future capital expenditures index
inched up two points to 25.3 and the future technology spending
index rose four points to 19.8 