-- U.S. Has ‘Grave Concern’ About Russian Arms Flow to Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-01-17T20:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/u-s-has-grave-concern-about-russian-arms-flow-to-syria-1-.html
The U.S. has “very grave concern”
about arms reaching the Assad regime after news reports that a
Russian shipment of ammunition arrived in  Syria , U.S. Ambassador
to the United Nations  Susan Rice  said.  Chariot, a Russian-owned ship carrying bullets, was
detained by Cypriot authorities on Jan. 9 and allowed to proceed
two days later after agreeing to change its destination to
 Turkey , the Cypriot national broadcaster CyBC reported without
saying where it got the information. Instead, the ship stopped
transmitting its automatic-recognition signal and went to the
Syrian port of Tartus.  “Unfortunately there is not an arms embargo against Syria
which we certainly think is overdue in part, because as you well
know, some members of the council including  Russia  have
indicated opposition to any form of sanctions,” Rice said in
 New York .  Russia has weapons contracts with Syria of at least $3
billion, according to the Moscow-based Center for the Analysis
of Strategies and Technologies. The orders include Yakhont anti-
ship cruise missiles, MiG-29 fighter jets and Pantsir short-
range air-defense systems. The port of Tartus is the only
Russian base outside the former Soviet republics.  Arab League  Monitors  Syrian security forces have extended their attacks on
demonstrators during the Arab League’s two-week deployment of
observers, killing about 400 people in that period, Lynn Pascoe,
the UN’s political chief, told the 15-member UN Security Council
on Jan. 10.  As a result, the UN will deploy four trainers to Cairo for
as long as three days to help the league’s monitors in Syria do
a better job of holding the Assad regime accountable, according
to the office of the UN spokesman. They will probably be
deployed on a request by the Arab League after Arab ministers
meet on Jan. 22, according to the office.  Under an agreement with the league, Syria’s government
promised to withdraw military and security forces from urban
areas, release political prisoners and allow observers into the
country to monitor implementation of the accord.  Syria’s security forces killed 30 people today, according
to the Al Arabiya news channel. Authorities also released former
political prisoner Najati Tayyara, according to the based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights. Tayyara was arrested along with
hundreds of other activists in house-to-house searches last May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  