-- Mukherjee Dividend Drive Sends Bond Risk to Three-Year High: India Credit
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-01-18T05:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/mukherjee-dividend-drive-sends-bond-risk-to-three-year-high-india-credit.html
The cost of protecting against
default in  India  is surging to a three-year high as investors
bet that the government will fail to rein in the nation’s budget
 deficit  even after pressing state-run companies for more
dividends.  Policy makers met the chiefs of state companies last week
to seek higher payouts as a plan to sell stakes in the firms
founders, a finance ministry official with knowledge of the
talks said on Jan. 12. Five-year credit-default swaps insuring
the bonds of  State Bank of India (SBIN) , seen as a proxy for the
nation, have risen 52 basis points since September to 405 basis
points on Jan. 9, the highest level since March 2009, according
to CMA. Similar contracts on  China ’s debt declined 49 to 150.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said on Jan. 7 that
cutting the deficit is a “serious challenge,” as the economy
slows and subsidy payments rise. India may miss by at least 1
percentage point its goal to cut the budget gap to 4.6 percent
of gross domestic product by March, according to  Standard
Chartered  Plc and ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd.  “Even if they manage to raise the cash through alternate
means, there will be a slippage in the fiscal deficit number,”
said Nagaraj Kulkarni, a Mumbai-based fixed-income strategist at
Standard Chartered. “If the recent trend of slowing revenue
continues, then the government may not be able to consolidate
its fiscal position.”  Finance Minister Mukherjee expanded the government’s debt-
sales program for the fiscal year ending March 31 by 8.5 percent
to a record 5.1 trillion rupees ($101 billion) last month, to
bridge the shortfall in revenue.  Rally Stalled  The increased debt sales are curbing a rally in  government
bonds  even after data showed this week that India’s inflation
rate fell to a two-year low in December. The benchmark
 wholesale-price index  rose 7.47 percent last month from a year
earlier, after gaining 9.11 percent in November, the Commerce
Ministry reported on Jan. 16.  The yield on India’s 8.79 percent note due in November 2021
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.20
percent, according to the central bank’s trading system.
Standard Chartered’s Kulkarni forecasts that the 10-year yield
will touch 8.5 percent by March 31. Investors are demanding an
 extra yield  of 635 basis points to hold the notes over similar-
maturity  U.S. Treasuries , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Default swaps protecting against non-payment on the bonds
of  State Bank  have more than doubled in the past year, advancing
206 basis points, according data provider CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘New Worry’  “The fiscal deficit is the new worry on the horizon for
bonds now that inflation is on a downward trajectory,”  Roy Paul , deputy general manager of treasury at Federal Bank Ltd. in
Mumbai said in an interview yesterday. “That is holding back a
rally in bonds.”  The government is seeking alternatives to boost revenue
after meeting only 3 percent of a target to raise 400 billion
rupees from the sale of stakes in state-owned firms in the year
ending March 31, according to data provided by the Department of
Disinvestment. The offerings have been delayed after India’s
benchmark  BSE Sensitive share index  slid 25 percent in 2011.  India’s budget shortfall reached 3.53 trillion rupees, or
85.6 percent of the annual target, in the eight months through
November, the Controller General of Accounts said on its website
on Dec. 30. Tax receipts rose 48.2 percent in the period from
April to November, less than the 55.5 percent advance recorded a
year earlier.  ‘Good Dividends’  “We are expecting good dividends from the public sector
companies this year,” R. Gopalan, India’s economic affairs
secretary, said in  New Delhi  on Jan. 16.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said on Jan. 8 that  India’s
economy  will grow about 7 percent in the year ending March 31,
less than the 7.5 percent rate of expansion he predicted in
December. Gross domestic product rose  6.9 percent  in the three
months ended Sept. 30, the least in two years, according to the
most recent government data.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold India’s 10-year
bonds instead of one-year notes touched an eight-month high of
33 basis points on Jan. 11, after the government raised its
target for sales of longer-dated bonds.  Wider Deficit  “As far as the  bond market  is concerned, the government
has already borrowed extra and the fiscal deficit is higher than
what was budgeted,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, a Mumbai-
based economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership, a unit
of India’s second-biggest bank. “We’re looking at least 5.5
percent on the deficit, even if they raise money from dividends.
If they don’t raise the money, it will be 6 percent.”  Indian bonds advanced this month, pushing 10-year yields
down by the most since May 2010, as the central bank bought
sovereign debt to ease a cash crunch at banks.  The  Reserve Bank  of India resumed open-market purchases of
government notes after 10 months in November and has so far
purchased 614 billion rupees of the securities in auctions,
official data show.  “The increased supply of government debt is being negated
by the RBI’s open-market bond purchases,” Vivek Rajpal, a
fixed-income strategist in Mumbai at Nomura Holdings Inc., said
in an interview yesterday.  Comparative Returns  Indian bonds returned 8.3 percent in the past year, while
Indonesian debt earned 27 percent to provide the best returns
among 10 Asian fixed-income markets tracked by HSBC Holdings
Plc. The rupee strengthened 0.4 percent today to 50.51 per
dollar.  State-owned National Aluminium Co. plans to boost dividend
payments in the year through March, said Chairman B.L. Bagra,
who attended the Jan. 12 meeting between Finance Ministry
officials and executives of state companies in New Delhi. The
Bhubaneswar, India-based company, controlled 87.2 percent by the
government, had 44.1 billion rupees of cash as of Sept. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Coal India, the world’s biggest producer of the fuel, had
550 billion rupees of cash as of Sept. 30 and plans to use the
money to increase output and pay more dividends, Chairman Nirmal Chandra Jha said on Sept. 22.  “The government is resorting to temporary measures to get
control over the  budget deficit ,”  Dharmakirti Joshi , Mumbai-
based chief economist at Crisil Ltd., the local unit of  Standard
& Poor’s , said in an interview on Jan. 13. “What India needs to
do is take durable and credible steps to cut the deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  