-- Vale Rises Most Since October After $6 Billion Dividend Plan
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-01-17T21:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/vale-plans-to-pay-at-least-6-billion-in-dividends-this-year.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, rose the most in almost three months after saying
it will pay at least $6 billion of dividends this year.  The company’s common  shares  rose 5.1 percent to 42.79 reais
in  Sao Paulo  today, the most since Oct. 24 and the second
biggest gain on the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa  index . Preferred
 shares , the most traded type of stock, climbed 4.1 percent to
40.91 reais, also the most since Oct. 24.  Vale’s initial target for dividends compares with $4
billion a year ago and beats a forecast of $5.18 billion from
HSBC Holdings Plc. The higher starting goal for dividends this
year signals the company may refrain from spending on large
acquisitions, said Leonardo Brito, an equity analyst at hedge
fund Teorica Investimentos.  “Vale had problems to spend its investment plan in full
last year and this may happen again in 2012,” Brito said in a
telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro  today. That “would free
space to boost dividends further.”  Holders of voting and non-voting stock will get about $1.18
per share in two installments on April 30 and on Oct. 31, the
Rio-based company said late  yesterday  in a statement. Vale paid
$9 billion of dividends last year after more than doubling its
initial goal and bought back $3 billion worth of stock.  Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said Nov. 28 the
company, which plans to invest $21.4 billion on mining projects
this year, will prioritize organic growth.  “I have a huge discipline in capital allocation,”
Ferreira said in November. “The most important thing for us is
to provide the right return to our shareholders.”  Profit Decline  Vale is forecast to post $20.9 billion in net income
excluding some items during 2012, 13 percent less than the $24
billion expected for last year, according to 17 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg  survey .  “The proposed minimum dividend is consistent with Vale’s
financial policy, which aims to provide a strong support to the
exploitation of profitable growth,” Vale said in the statement.  The dividend plan is still subject to the approval of the
company’s board, Vale said.  Vale has  fallen  about 23 percent in the past 12 months,
more than the 14 percent decline of the Bovespa  Index. (IBOV)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  