-- Valeant Increases Hostile Bid for Ista As Target Talks to Other Bidders
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-01-17T21:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/valeant-raises-bid-for-ista-pharmaceuticals-to-7-50-a-share.html
Valeant (VRX)  Pharmaceuticals
International Inc.,  Canada ’s biggest drugmaker, raised a
takeover offer for  Ista Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISTA)  as Ista said it was
talking with unidentified possible bidders.  Ista Chairman Richard C. Williams and Chief Executive
Officer Vicente Anido Jr. met Jan. 11 with Valeant CEO J. Michael Pearson, Ista said in a statement today. Valeant raised
the offer during the meeting to $7.50 a share in cash from
$6.50, and “set a target price of $8.50,” subject to due
diligence, Ista said. Ista rose 13 percent to $8.22 at the close
of trading.  Valeant made the initial $327 million bid public on Dec.
16, saying Irvine, California-based Ista had rebuffed three
approaches. Ista, the maker of drugs for glaucoma and the pain
of cataract surgery, rejected that offer, calling it “grossly
inadequate,” and said it would explore strategic options.  “Our confidence level of having a deal completed is
improving,” said Difei Yang, an analyst at Auriga Securities in
 New York , who said Ista may draw interest from large
pharmaceutical companies seeking access to the eye-care market.
“Ista, on a standalone basis, will be profitable this year, so
it makes it a very nice tuck-in acquisition,” she said by
telephone.  Ista in Talks  Ista is “currently is in dialogue with a number of parties
that have expressed an interest in pursuing a strategic
transaction,” the eye-care company said today. Ista didn’t
identify any of the possible bidders.  The company is expected to generate 30 cents a share in
adjusted earnings and $193.5 million in sales this year,
according to the average  estimates  of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Valeant, in a statement today, reiterated its Jan. 31
deadline for reaching an agreement. At $7.50 a share, the deal
would represent a 94 percent premium over Ista’s 60-day trading
average as of Dec. 15, the day before Valeant made its offer
public, the Mississauga, Ontario-based drugmaker said. At $8.50
a share, the premium would be 120 percent, the company said. The
$327 million value of the initial bid includes debt.  “We do not understand why Ista would not have already
pursued discussions with us and provided due diligence access,”
said Pearson, Valeant’s CEO. “Our proposal represents an
attractive premium to Ista’s trading performance, and we believe
it offers a compelling opportunity for shareholders.”  Valeant Deadline  Valeant typically doesn’t let negotiations drag out and is
likely to stick to the deadline, said  Corey Davis , a Jefferies &
Co. analyst in New York who covers the drugmaker.  “In my mind, there’s no other obvious buyer” and Ista’s
relatively small revenue is unlikely to attract a larger
drugmaker, Davis said by telephone. “If the board doesn’t
accept by Jan. 31, I think the Ista stock price is in for a big
surprise.”  Valeant rose 3.6 percent to $50.98. The drugmaker has
climbed 46 percent in the past 12 months. Ista shares gained 33
percent in the last 12 months.  In a second statement today, Ista said it would give
shareholders of record as of Jan. 27 the right to buy preferred
stock.  “The rights plan was adopted to ensure the fair and equal
treatment of the company’s  stockholders  in connection with any
initiative to acquire effective control of the company,” Ista
said. “It is intended to reduce the likelihood that any person
or group would gain control of the company by open market
accumulation or otherwise without paying a control premium for
all common stock.”  Valeant sent Ista a letter yesterday confirming the
increased proposal. The offer from Valeant “included a number
of inaccuracies about Ista’s process and the discussions between
the two companies,” Ista said. The U.S. company will review the
new offer and is “fully committed to completing the strategic
review,” according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  