-- Vodacom Congo Dispute Nearing End, International Chief Says
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-01-18T10:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/vodacom-s-congo-dispute-nearing-end-international-chief-says.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the phone
company with most South African customers, is close to resolving
a dispute that has blocked investment in its Democratic Republic
of Congo unit for the last two years.  “We’re making good progress and getting closer to a
solution,” Johan Dennelind, Vodacom’s head of international
operations, said yesterday in an interview at the group’s
Johannesburg headquarters. Vodacom is 65 percent owned by
Newbury, England-based  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Vodacom has been at odds with local minority partner,
Congolese Wireless Network SPRL, since at least early 2010,
following a plan to inject $484 million into the business,
 Vodacom Congo SPRL . CWN has said the recapitalization would
dilute its 49 percent share because its shareholders don’t have
the money to support their half. Vodacom said last year it had
agreed with CWN to “explore options” for the unit after
disagreements over the funding and operational structure.  Vodacom Congo had 4.8 million subscribers at the end of
September, Vodacom said on Nov. 7. It is the third-largest
operator in the country, which has over 71 million people and a
mobile penetration rate of 17 percent, according to the  U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency’s World Factbook .  “We’re having constructive discussions with our partners
on the Vodacom Congo board,” said Dennelind. , adding that the
parties are “nearing completion.”  May Sell Stake  The South African operator has said it won’t invest further
in the Congo unit until the conflict is solved, and Chief
Executive Officer Pieter Uys said in May last year Vodacom may
sell its 51 percent stake to end the struggle. The parties have
appointed London-based NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd. to advise on
the options. Vodacom today named Ivan Dittrich as Chief
Financial Officer from about July 1.  Vodacom shares  have climbed 24 percent over the last year,
valuing the company at 136 billion rand ($16.9 billion) compared
with a 3 increase in the  FTSE/JSE Africa Share Index (JALSH) . The stock
fell as much as 1.1 percent today to 90.31 rand and slipped 0.1
percent to 91.15 rand at 11:45 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Potential for Expansion  The Congo unit hasn’t reported a profit since Vodacom
bought a stake in 2001, while the potential for expansion exists
as the country’s mobile penetration rate is 17 percent. The
group’s international operations, which include the Congo unit,
reported an operating loss of 267 million rand in the six months
ending Sept. 30. Tanzania is Vodacom’s second-biggest market,
where it owns a 65 percent stake in the local unit which had
10.2 million customers at the end of September.  Vodacom is focusing on widening third-generation
technology, which gives data and Internet capacity to mobile
customers, across the five African nations where it operates,
Dennelind said on Nov. 11. Capital expenditure on international
operations would be significantly more in the second half of the
fiscal year ending March 31 than the $176 million spent in the
first half, he said.  “We’re committed to spending whatever it takes to retain
our leadership position in our markets,” Dennelind said
yesterday.  Vodacom Tanzania is set to invest 100 billion Tanzanian
shillings ($62 million) over the next 12 to 18 months to expand
and improve its network coverage, Rene Meza, the managing
director of the unit said on Dec. 13.  Low penetration  The amount is only a part of what the group will have
invested over the next few years, said Dennelind. “We see
mobile-phone penetration rising from below the current 50
percent in Tanzania to over 70 percent over the next five years
throughout the continent,” he said.  Vodacom will focus its investment on growing markets like
Tanzania and  Mozambique  in the medium term, where penetration is
still low relative to the major market of  South Africa , said
Dennelind. It will bolster growth through infrastructure
investments, including data-enabled networks that allow
customers to use mobile-phones to access financial services. In
Tanzania, Vodacom has signed up more than 2 million users for
its M-Pesa product, which allows users to transfer money to
others, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Sikonathi Mantshantsha in
Johannesburg at   smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  