-- Wells Fargo Posts Record Profit
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-17T21:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/wells-fargo-posts-higher-profit-on-mortgages.html
Wells Fargo & Co. , the largest U.S.
bank by market value, posted record profit for the fourth
quarter and full year that beat analysts’ estimates as mortgage
financing improved.  Net income rose 20 percent in the quarter to $4.11 billion,
or 73 cents a share, from $3.41 billion, or 61 cents, a year
earlier, the San Francisco-based company said in a  statement 
today. That exceeded the 72-cent estimate of 31 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue declined 4 percent to $20.6
billion, better than the $20 billion forecast by analysts. For
the year, net income climbed 28 percent to $15.9 billion.  “I’m extremely pleased with Wells Fargo’s performance in
2011,” Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  said in the
statement, citing growth in deposits and loans. The bank plans
on “returning even more capital to our shareholders.”  Slowing economic growth, low  interest rates  and volatile
 capital markets  have sapped revenue at the largest U.S. banks,
leading them to seek other sources and cut expenses. Stumpf, 58,
 reduced his staff  by 3 percent to 264,200 and reaffirmed plans
to trim $1.5 billion in quarterly costs by the end of this year.  New Mortgages  New mortgages rose 35 percent to $120 billion from the
three months ended September at Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S.
home lender. Net interest margin, the difference between what
the bank pays for funds and what it earns on loans and
securities, climbed to 3.89 percent from 3.84 percent in the
third quarter.  Compared with the third quarter, “the net interest margin
went up, revenues were up,”  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets in Arlington,  Virginia , told Betty Liu on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” today. “These were two
things that people really look at out there, and they showed
really good numbers.”  Some year-over-year comparisons weren’t as favorable, with
the net interest margin narrowing from 4.16 in 2010’s fourth
quarter and pretax, pre-provision profit dropping 1 percent.
Management calls the latter figure a useful gauge of the
company’s ability to generate capital to cover losses through a
credit cycle. Income was boosted by a release of $600 million
from reserves, with the bank predicting more of the same during
2012. Noninterest income from mortgage banking dropped 14
percent from a year earlier as originations slipped 6 percent.  Shares Gain  Wells Fargo shares advanced 0.7 percent to $29.83 in  New
York . The company became the most valuable U.S. bank even after
last year’s 11 percent stock decline, because most rivals fell
further. The lender’s market value of $156.1 billion as of last
week compares with $136.5 billion at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
was more than the value of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Morgan
Stanley and Bank of America Corp. combined.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the investment and holding company
run by Chairman and CEO  Warren Buffett , is the biggest Wells
Fargo  shareholder , with a stake of about 6.9 percent.  The bank finished absorbing Wachovia Corp., the lender
saved from collapse in 2008 when Wells Fargo beat Citigroup Inc.
in a bidding contest. Stumpf said future deals are likely to be
domestic, “bolt-on acquisitions,” using a term for takeovers
that fit with a company’s existing operations or expand in
nearby regions, rather than venturing into a new field.  Tire-Kicking  “We are kicking lots of tires and we are in a unique
position in that we are not capital constrained and can do some
things that make good sense for us economically,” Stumpf said
during a conference call with analysts. “It’ll have to make a
lot of sense for us, and if all we get out of this is sore toes,
that’s fine.”  Banks including Wells Fargo have fallen short in efforts to
replace revenue lost to new financial rules such as those
capping debit-card interchange fees. Wells Fargo reported a $365
million decline in debit-card interchange fees, partially offset
by more fee income from credit cards.  The bank canceled plans last year to charge $3 monthly for
using its  debit cards  after customers in a five-state pilot
program protested, and Bank of America abandoned a proposed $5
fee.  Wells Fargo is facing claims from mortgage-bond investors.
A bondholder group that won an $8.5 billion settlement from  Bank
of America (BAC)  said this month it may also seek payments from Wells
Fargo on more than $19 billion of residential mortgage-backed
securities issued by affiliates of the bank.  Building Share  Wells Fargo has pursued more home lending even as rivals
shy from the business, according to Stumpf. “We like the
mortgage business,” he said on the conference call.  A retreat “makes absolutely no sense to us,” said Chief
Financial Officer Tim Sloan in an interview. “There are lots of
reasons to look at a business and get upset about it,” Sloan
said. “This is a great opportunity for us and we have been
building share throughout this entire time.”  Non-interest expenses rose to $12.5 billion in the fourth
quarter from $11.7 billion in the three months ended September
on higher compensation and foreclosure costs, according to the
statement.  Wells Fargo may seek to  return more capital  to shareholders
this year. The bank may boost its quarterly dividend from 12
cents to 20 cents this year, according to  Edward Najarian , an
analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group Inc. He has
a “buy” rating on Wells Fargo.  JPMorgan, the largest bank by assets, said last week that
fourth-quarter net income slid 23 percent to $3.73 billion. Bank
of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , will probably
post $1.63 billion in profit on Jan. 19, according to 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. New York-based  Citigroup (C)  said
today fourth-quarter income dropped 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  