-- Wikipedia to Shut for 24 Hours to Protest Proposed U.S. Anti-Piracy Laws
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-01-17T10:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/wikipedia-to-shut-for-24-hours-to-protest-proposed-u-s-anti-piracy-laws.html
Wikipedia , the online encyclopedia
where users contribute and edit entries, will shut the English
version of its website for 24 hours tomorrow to oppose proposed
U.S. anti-piracy legislation.  The move is a protest against pending legislation including
the Stop Online Piracy Act, or SOPA, bill, according to a
statement by  Wikimedia Foundation Inc. , the non-profit
organization that operates the encyclopedia. The law being
discussed in the U.S. is designed to combat issues including
illegally copied films and TV content.  “If passed, this legislation will harm the free and open
Internet and bring about new tools for censorship of
international websites inside the  United States ,” Wikimedia
said in the  statement .  The SOPA bill in the  House of Representatives  and a similar
Senate bill are backed by the movie and music industries as a
way to crack down on online content theft. Internet companies
including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. are waging a campaign
against the legislation, which they say will encourage
censorship of Web content and harm technology innovation.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  called Google a “piracy
leader” in a Jan. 14 post on Twitter, saying that it streams
movies for free and sells advertisements around them. A day
later he wrote in his Twitter account that Google is a “great
company doing many exciting things. Only one complaint, and it’s
important.”  Miranda Higham, a  News Corp. (NWSA)  spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Obama Administration  The Obama administration won’t back legislation to combat
online piracy if it encourages censorship, undermines
cybersecurity or disrupts the structure of the Internet, three
White House technology officials said Jan. 14. The statement
marks the administration’s most significant foray into a fight
between content creators and Web companies that has been playing
out in Congress. The Senate is scheduled to hold a procedural
vote Jan. 24 on starting debate on an anti-piracy bill.  Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia, called the decision
to shut the website an “extraordinary” action in response to
the proposed laws, which “endanger free speech both in the
United States and abroad, and set a frightening precedent of
Internet censorship for the world.”  Wikipedia, available in 282 languages, contains more than
20 million articles contributed by a global volunteer community
of more than 100,000 people.  Spokespeople at Wikipedia and Wikimedia weren’t immediately
available to comment. Ollie Rickman, a Google spokesman, and
Sophy Tobias, a Facebook spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  