-- Serena Williams Keeps Her Perfect Record; Djokovic Wins at Australian Open
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-01-17T14:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/wimbledon-champion-kvitova-wins-as-temperature-rises-at-australian-open.html
Serena Williams  kept her perfect
record in Grand Slam opening matches alive as she joined
defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic in the next round of the
Australian Open.  Williams, who has won five of her 13 major titles in
Melbourne, defeated  Austria ’s  Tamira Paszek , 6-3, 6-2 in a match
that ended at shortly before 1 a.m. local time at Rod Laver
Arena. Williams’ worst defeat in a major dates back the 1998
Australian Open, when she lost in the second round in what was
her first Grand Slam event.  “I haven’t been here for over a year, and I was a little
nervous today,” Williams, who produced 12 aces, said in a
televised court-side interview.  Earlier in the day, top-seeded Novak Djokovic eased into
his title defense, and Wimbledon women’s champion Petra Kvitova
advanced in straight sets at  Melbourne  Park. No. 4 seed Andy Murray needed four sets to beat Ryan Harrison of the U.S.  Sixth-seeded Samantha Stosur, who became the first
Australian woman in 30 years to win a Grand Slam singles title
last September, was upset 7-6 (7-2), 6-3 by 59th-ranked Sorana Cirstea of Romania.  “Probably the whole country hates me right now,” Cirstea,
21, said in a televised interview.  Williams, 30, had pulled out of the Brisbane International
tournament, a tune-up for the year’s opening major, with an
ankle injury almost two weeks ago. That was her first event
since losing to Stosur in the finals of the  U.S. Open  last year.  Williams, seeded 12th, missed last year’s Australian Open
as she recovered from two operations on her foot. After
receiving treatment for blood clots in her lungs in February,
she didn’t return to the women’s tour until the grass-court
season in June.  17-Game Run  Djokovic, who earned 10 titles last year including three of
the four majors, earlier beat part-time medical student Paolo
Lorenzi of Italy 6-2, 6-0, 6-0 on  Rod Laver  Arena, winning 17
straight games after giving up an early break.  The Serb is trying to become the fifth man after Rod Laver,
 Pete Sampras ,  Roger Federer  and  Rafael Nadal  to win three
straight Grand Slam championships since tennis’s Open era began
in 1968.  “Mentally, I’ve gained a lot of experience playing at the
top level in the last couple of years,” Djokovic, a two-time
champion at Melbourne Park, told reporters. “It helped me a lot
to understand the game better, to understand what I need to do
in order to win major events.”  Maria Sharapova, the 2008 champion, led four seeded Russian
women into the second round with a 6-0, 6-1 beating of
 Argentina ’s Gisela Dulko in less than an hour. No. 15 Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova and 27th-seeded Maria Kirilenko also advanced in
straight sets, while No. 29 Nadia Petrova won in three sets.  It was Sharapova’s first match on the women’s circuit since
October. She had pulled out of a lead-up event in Brisbane
because of a left-ankle injury sustained in September.  ‘The Big Ones’  “I’d rather come in feeling good physically than feeling
like I played a lot of matches,” Sharapova told reporters.
“It’s more important to me than anything. I just want to be as
ready as I can for the big ones.”  No. 2-seeded Czech Kvitova, who along with Sharapova was
one of six women who entered the two-week event with a chance of
taking the WTA’s No. 1 ranking, dropped the first two games
before winning 12 straight to wrap up the victory in 61 minutes.  Marion Bartoli , the No. 9 seed from  France , No. 14 Sabine Lisicki of Germany and 21st-seeded Ana Ivanovic of  Serbia  also
won.  As temperatures at Melbourne Park earlier neared 35 degrees
Celsius (95 degrees Fahrenheit), Britain’s Murray needed 3
hours, 12 minutes to defeat unseeded Harrison in Murray’s first
Grand Slam appearance since hiring eight-time major champion
Ivan Lendl as his coach. The match on Hisense Arena, Melbourne
Park’s second-biggest showcourt, featured one rally that lasted
41 shots.  Lendl’s Understanding  “He understands how you might be feeling at the start of a
Grand Slam, what it’s like to play against someone that you
haven’t played against, what it’s like playing in different
conditions, how you feel in really warm conditions,” Murray,
who tuned up by winning the Brisbane International, said of
Lendl after his 4-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-2 victory.  No. 15 seed  Andy Roddick  of the U.S., whose four semifinal
appearances in Melbourne without making the title match are an
Open-era record, followed Murray on Hisense Arena with a 6-3, 6-
4, 6-1 win over Robin Haase of the Netherlands. He’ll next play
 Australia ’s Lleyton Hewitt, who beat  Germany ’s Cedrik-Marcel
Stebe, 7-5, 6-4, 3-6, 7-5. Hewitt, a former world No. 1, needed
close to four hours in his record 16th straight Australian Open
appearance.  Fifth-seeded Spaniard David Ferrer, who is in line to face
Djokovic in the quarterfinals, was a 6-1, 6-4, 6-2 winner
against Rui Machado of  Portugal .  No. 9 Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia advanced along with seeded
Frenchmen Jo-Wilfried Tsonga,  Gilles Simon , Gael Monfils and
Richard Gasquet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net ; Danielle
Rossingh on the London sports desk at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  