-- Two Pairs of Eyes Must Verify 1.9 Million Recall Signatures in Wisconsin
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2012-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/wisconsin-governor-walker-s-opponents-have-1-million-names-for-recall-vote.html
Wisconsin  election officials will
examine more than 1.9 million petition signatures aimed at
forcing recalls of Governor Scott Walker, his lieutenant
governor and four state senators, all Republicans.  The  Government Accountability Board , a nonpartisan panel of
former judges, for two months will focus on the validity of
names turned in yesterday in Madison, the state capital, said
Director  Kevin Kennedy . The timing of any recall election is
unknown, he said, because there are “so many variables” in a
verification process that will be webcast and subject to legal
challenges. Two sets of eyes will examine every name, he said.  “We have no dog in this fight,” Kennedy said yesterday at
a news conference in Madison, referring to the board’s
neutrality. “We just have a job to do.”  Walker, 44, pushed collective-bargaining curbs on public
employees that divided the state of 5.7 million people. At least
1 million people signed petitions to force him from office,
nearly as many as the 1.1 million who voted for him in 2010. If
the board finds at least 540,208 of the signatures are valid,
Wisconsin will become only the third state to consider ousting a
governor.  “ Scott Walker  will be recalled,” Mike Tate, chairman of
the Wisconsin Democratic Party, said in a news conference in
Madison.  The petitions are “a crystal-clear indication of how
strong the appetite is,” Ryan Lawler, a board member of United
Wisconsin, said in a statement. The group helped amass the
names.  Heavy Names  Democrats and union members also collected about 850,000
signatures to recall Lieutenant Governor Rebecca Kleefisch and
20,600 to recall Senator Scott Fitzgerald, about 4,200 more than
necessary. Also targeted are Senators Pam Galloway, Terry Moulton and Van Wanggaard, each of whom supported Walker’s
collective-bargaining limits.  Hours before the delivery of the petitions -- 300,000 pages
weighing 3,000 pounds -- Walker called the effort “a baseless
recall.”  “We’re going to get a chance to do what’s never been done
before: be elected twice in the same term,” Walker told
Milwaukee radio station WTMJ.  The  Republican Governors Association  unveiled a website
supporting Walker, called StandWithScott.com.  “Regardless of what the radical left may believe,
Wisconsin families will continue to stand with Governor
Walker,” Wisconsin Republican Party Chairman Brad Courtney said
in a statement.  Outside Cash  Walker raised $7.6 million in anticipation of a recall,
according to a Jan. 10 report filed with the accountability
board. He has attended fundraisers in Washington and Austin.  No Democrat has emerged to challenge him.  In 2011, the battle over public-employee union bargaining
rights prompted recalls in nine legislative districts and drew
$44 million in contributions, most from out-of-state interests,
according to the Wisconsin Democracy Campaign, a nonpartisan
watchdog group based in Madison.  Walker, the former Milwaukee County executive, won election
with 52 percent of the vote, defeating Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett. The collective-bargaining changes he pushed through the
Republican-dominated Legislature provoked tens of thousands to
protest at the Capitol last February and March.  Wisconsin has a 20th century history of progressivism
embodied by Robert LaFollette Sr., the fiery U.S. senator who
opposed World War I, railroad interests and child labor. Its
modern-day politics mirrors national political divisions.  Walker is a champion of smaller government and reduced
entitlements articulated by U.S. Representative  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican and chairman of the House Budget Committee.  Recall campaigns would coincide with the presidential fight
in Wisconsin, a perennial battleground. President  Barack Obama 
won the state in 2008 with 56 percent of the vote, defeating
Senator  John McCain  with 42 percent.  Only two U.S. governors have been recalled from office,
 Gray Davis  of  California  in 2003, and  Lynn Frazier  of  North
Dakota  in 1921.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  