-- World’s Worst Government May Be Ready for Change: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-01-17T20:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/world-s-worst-government-may-be-ready-for-change-william-pesek.html
Among the many tantalizing questions
surrounding Myanmar’s flirtation with democracy is this: Might
Kim Jong Un be enticed to try something similar in  North Korea ?  Taking stock of events in the Myanmar capital, Naypyidaw,
the brand new leader of the world’s worst government might be
having second thoughts about the viability of the Kim Dynasty.
At least 2 million people starved during the 17-year reign of
his father, Kim Jong Il, and North Korea’s economy is a disaster
area.  Enter Myanmar, the runner-up to North Korea as  Asia ’s worst
regime. In a few short months, President Thein Sein won an
upgrade in ties with world powers, a visit from U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton , talk of scrapping sanctions and
nibbles from companies including General Electric Co. He’s done
it by releasing political prisoners and holding out the promise
of a new path for a nation whose 62 million citizens earn an
average of $2.20 a day.  Myanmar’s abrupt policy U-turn might not be just a model
for change in Kim’s North Korea, but a catalyst.  First, a couple of to-be-sure qualifiers. Only time will
tell if the military-backed government is pulling off an
elaborate head-fake. For all the hopes that  Thein Sein  is
Myanmar’s Mikhail Gorbachev, there’s every reason to -- as
 Ronald Reagan  was so fond of saying -- trust, but verify. How
quickly Aung San Suu Kyi is allowed to re-enter government,
prisoners are released and the news media can report there are
among the litmus tests.  Kim’s North Korea  Pyongyang is a much bigger question mark. If the  Soviet
Union  was “a riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma,”
as Winston Churchill put it, Kim’s North Korea is a distant
planet beyond the reach of our most probing telescopes.  There are some limits to the Myanmar-North Korea
comparison. Myanmar, even in its darkest days, was never as
surreal as North Korea. Consider  reports  that Pyongyang is
doling out harsh terms in labor camps to those who didn’t mourn
with conviction for  Kim Jong Il ’s death last month.  Yet it’s not naive to consider some of the forces at work.  One is how geopolitics is closing in on Asia’s despots in
sudden and unpredictable ways. The Arab Spring squeezed North
Korea’s finances more than is acknowledged. Muammar Qaddafi’s
 Libya  was a steady customer for North Korea’s missiles.  Syria 
has long been a key market for the Hermit Kingdom, along with
other now-embattled governments in the  Middle East  and North
Africa. Add to that the signs of liberalization by resource-rich
Myanmar.  Cash Crunch  As Barack Obama’s White House extends a hand, the
administration anticipates a quick end to Myanmar’s military
ties to North Korea. That’s one more customer who won’t be
stuffing Kim Jong Un’s pockets and giving him the wherewithal to
placate a military leadership accustomed to living the high life
and dedicated to preventing a North Korean Spring.  Then there’s  China ’s patronage.  China (CNGDPYOY)  has grown tired of
supporting its unpredictable and thankless neighbor. When the
Kim family lobs missiles at  South Korea  and in the direction of
Tokyo, China’s phones are the first to ring. China has bigger
worries on its plate -- averting a financial overheating, for
example -- than taming Kim’s ill-timed dramas.  North Korea is surely paying attention to China’s
irritation with Myanmar as it cozies up to the U.S. The
rapprochement reached new highs this week when Senate Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell, a veteran Myanmar critic, visited
Yangon, meeting with Suu Kyi, as did Clinton and billionaire
financier  George Soros  recently. Such visits come three months
after Myanmar suspended China’s construction of a $3.6 billion
dam, raising doubts about Myanmar-China ties.  NBA Enthusiast  How all this is playing in Pyongyang is hard to gauge.
Little is known about Kim, who is thought to be about 28. We do
know he attended school in Bern,  Switzerland , during the 1990s,
has a passion for the  National Basketball Association  and
Michael Jordan and, according to North Korea’s infinitely
creative propaganda machine, began driving at age 3.  Yet Kim has to know the economic ways of his father are
getting less mileage. Blackmailing the world for food and oil
with provocations is a weak strategy in the long run. So is
relying on piracy, currency counterfeiting and weapons sales.
The net is tightening on North Korea’s ability to trade nuclear
technology with Pakistan and  Iran .  The resulting cash shortage may leave just one growth
industry for Kim: diplomacy. Not the usual routine of hollow
pledges and confrontation, but a real opening to the world. Choi Se Woong, a banker who fled the communist North after years of
working for the regime, said that Kim will drop the barriers to
international business for his creaking economy.  Really, where has isolating North Korea gotten the U.S.? If
decades of sanctions didn’t unseat  Fidel Castro  in Cuba, why do
successive U.S. leaders think the strategy will work someday in
North Korea? Although appeasement isn’t the answer, there is
room for a different approach -- one that attacks North Korea
with capitalism rather than the threat of military hostilities.  Watching events unfold in Myanmar, Kim may just be having
radical thoughts. If he is, the world and North Korea would be a
better place.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 