-- Myanmar Feeds Asia Trade With $8.6 Billion Port as U.S. Ties Thaw: Freight
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-01-17T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/myanmar-feeds-asia-trade-with-8-6-billion-port-as-u-s-ties-thaw-freight.html
Myanmar is developing an $8.6
billion port and industrial complex in the nation’s south
intended to feed Asian demand as the U.S. and  Europe  lay out a
path to ease sanctions in place for more than 20 years.  Italian-Thai Development Co. (ITD) , the largest construction
company in Thailand, completed an access road last year from the
Thai border to Dawei, about 250 kilometers (155 miles) west of
Bangkok. The company plans to complete financing this year for
the harbor, which with the industrial zone will cover an area 16
times bigger than Thailand’s largest manufacturing park.  “What makes Dawei interesting is Myanmar itself,” said
Thanet Sorat, who heads a trade facilitation body at the
Federation of Thai Industries, the country’s biggest industry
group. “It was closed for so long and now the government is
more open. Thai companies see many opportunities there due to
cheap labor costs and many natural resources.”  The Dawei initiative highlights Myanmar’s efforts to
connect one of Asia’s poorest nations to a region driving global
growth. Myanmar has freed political prisoners and signed a peace
agreement with rebels, seeking to prompt the U.S. and the
European Union to lift economic  sanctions .  Italian-Thai shares, which fell 22 percent last year, are
poised to recover as the Dawei project advances, Athaporn Arayasantiparb, an analyst with UOB-Kay Hian Securities
(Thailand) Pcl, wrote in a report yesterday.  PTT Pcl (PTT) ,  PTT
Exploration & Production Pcl ,  Hemaraj Land & Development Pcl  and
 Ratchaburi Electricity Generating Holding Pcl (RATCH)  are among other
listed Thai companies set to benefit, he said.  ‘Opening Up’  Siam Cement Pcl (SCC) , Thailand’s fifth-biggest company by market
value, also probably will gain assuming the project proceeds as
planned, said Adithep Vanabriksha, who oversees about $4.5
billion of Thai assets for Aberdeen Asset Management.  “Myanmar’s on the verge of opening up and Thai companies
are likely to benefit given our proximity,” said Bangkok-based
Adithep. “They’re going to need a lot of construction
materials, a lot of cement.”  Myanmar President  Thein Sein  discussed the Dawei project at
a December meeting with Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra,
who sent several cabinet ministers to inspect the site on Jan.
7. Bangkok-based Italian-Thai signed a 60-year concession to
develop Dawei 14 months ago.  Industrial Hub?  Executives from  Bangkok Bank Pcl (BBL) ,  Krung Thai Bank Pcl (KTB)  and
 Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB)  joined the ministers on the visit to
Dawei this month, according to Somchet Thinaphong, managing
director of the Dawei Development Co., an Italian-Thai unit.
Among the potential investors he listed were Malaysia’s
 Petroliam Nasional Bhd. (PET) , known as Petronas, and Japanese
companies  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,  Mitsui & Co.  and  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)   “All our experts and all the technical people from
Thailand and Myanmar believe Dawei can be a new industrial
hub,” Foreign Minister Surapong Tovichakchaikul, who was on the
trip, told reporters on Dec. 21.  Japanese manufacturers are interested in using Dawei to
make parts that can supply factories in Thailand, which
automakers  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  use as a
production base, said Somchet, who is overseeing the project.  Japan  will try to help finance the Dawei port if it can
reach a deal on the former military dictatorship’s “huge”
outstanding debt, Kimihiro Ishikane, a foreign ministry
official, told reporters in Bali on Nov. 16. Myanmar is a
“crucially important” part of Japan’s plans to try and reduce
costs for its companies operating in the region, he said.  ASEAN Landscape  “This is a project that will help change the ASEAN
landscape,” Somchet said, referring to the 10-member
Association of Southeast Asian Nations, which has a market of
almost 600 million people. “We are establishing an industrial
hub where raw materials will flow” to  China , India and Japan.  To be sure, Myanmar has recently put two electricity
projects on hold due to opposition from environmentalists. One
of them is a 4,000-megawatt coal-fired power project in Dawei
that Italian-Thai agreed to build with Ratchaburi. In September,
Thein Sein halted construction of a Chinese-backed $3.6 billion
hydropower station.  The moves underscored the investment risks stemming from
Myanmar’s 14-month-old transition toward democracy, a process on
which the lifting of sanctions is conditioned. The country is
viewed as the most corrupt after  North Korea  and Somalia in
Transparency International’s  Corruption Perceptions Index .  The Dawei project is “still far from reality,” DBS
Vickers Securities ( Thailand ) Co. said in a Jan. 16 report.
“Despite potential to bring economic prosperity to Burma, the
project is still in its infancy and clouded with risks.”  Steel Mill  Italian-Thai is wooing banks to lend $12.5 billion for the
development as well as to invest in an integrated steel mill, an
oil, gas and petrochemical complex and fertilizer plants. It
expects to gain income from selling land and acting as the main
contractor on the project’s infrastructure, including a more
than 100-kilometer road from Dawei to the Thai border.  Thein Sein took power last year after a general election in
2010 that ended half of a century of military rule. In addition
to releasing hundreds of political prisoners and signing the
cease-fire with the country’s largest armed rebel group, he has
sought dialogue with democracy advocate Aung San Suu Kyi.  The U.S. and U.K. have pledged to ease sanctions if he
takes additional steps to reduce political repression and
demonstrates the changes will last.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and
 General Electric Co. (GE)  are among those seeking to invest in
Myanmar after Secretary of State Hillary Clinton last month
completed the highest-level U.S. visit to the nation in more
than five decades.  ‘Strategic Location’  China and India share more than 3,600 kilometers of border
with Myanmar, whose 64 million people earn an average of just
$2.25 per day, according to  International Monetary Fund 
estimates. Both nations have sought increased access to the
resource-rich nation’s reserves of natural gas.  “Myanmar can become a regional hub for some sectors,” Nay
Zin Latt, an adviser to Thein Sein, said in an e-mail. “Our
strategic location will attract investors. Goods and commodities
will move in and out more conveniently with a lower cost, making
us more competitive.”  Gas sales and better freight links with China, India and
the rest of  Southeast Asia  may enable Myanmar to boost gross
domestic product growth, which IMF data shows averaged 4.9
percent per year during 2008 through 2011.  Gas Rich  Natural gas production in Myanmar has almost quadrupled in
the past decade to 12.1 billion cubic meters in 2010. That is
equivalent to about one-eighth the output of China, Asia-
Pacific’s biggest producer, according to the  BP Statistical
Review . Gas sales to neighboring Thailand have made it Myanmar’s
top trading partner.  “The Dawei port will focus on petrochemicals, not
containers,” said Ruth Banomyong, an assistant professor at
Bangkok’s Thammasat University who has studied logistics in the
region for the Asian Development Bank. “It will be more of an
industrial port, with gas and petroleum products.”  Maersk Line  Ltd. will look to do more business in Myanmar
if the nation opens up to the international community, said
Thomas Knudsen, chief executive officer of Asian operations at
Maersk Line, a unit of Copenhagen-based  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) ,
the world’s biggest container shipper.  The deep-sea port will be able to handle more than 200
million tons of cargo when completed, according to Italian-Thai.
That compares with 47 million tons of cargo that passed through
Laem Chabang, Thailand’s biggest port, in 2009, Port Authority
statistics show.  “Clearly the port could start to grow,” Maersk’s Knudsen
said, referring to Dawei. “We’ve seen that in other parts of
the world when you’ve got the combination of a deepwater port
and zones for manufacturing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  