-- ’Snitch’ Is Oddly Classy; ‘Girls’ Guy Times Two: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/-snitch-is-oddly-classy-girls-guy-times-two-movies.html
For a drug-cartel thriller pasted
onto a sentimental family drama, “ Snitch ” is surprisingly
(probably unnecessarily) classy.  It starts with the arrest of an 18-year-old (Rafi Gavron)
who allowed a friend to ship him a big package of ecstasy.
Facing 10 years in jail, he refuses to do what’s been done to
him: set up somebody else in order to save his own skin. He
won’t snitch.  So his distraught father (Dwayne Johnson, aka The Rock), a
straight-arrow workaholic who owns a construction company,
determines to satisfy the ambitious U.S. Attorney (Susan Sarandon) by nabbing a dealer on his own.  Dumb as it sounds, it zips along. Taking a stand against
mandatory minimum sentences seems to have provided the director,
Ric Roman Waugh, and the actors with a sense of purpose.  Jon Bernthal, in particular, gives the movie heart as a
two-strike ex-con who works at the construction company and
consents -- reluctantly -- to introduce his boss to a drug
kingpin.  Only in the last half-hour does “Snitch” lower its aims
and jack up the violence to nitwit level. Then again, few
pictures of its ilk have any aims to lower.  “Snitch,” from Summit Entertainment, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: *** (Seligman)  ‘Red Flag’  For the time being, “Girls” costar Alex Karpovsky is
probably stuck with the cranky barista persona that’s made him a
favorite on that HBO series.  But starring roles in two of his own micro-budget indie
films (released as a double feature in New York by Tribeca Film)
suggest a future that won’t involve lattes or Lena Dunham.  In the comedy “ Red Flag ,” writer/director Karpovsky takes
a page from Larry David by playing an enhanced (one hopes)
version of himself: a dyspeptic, self-obsessed indie filmmaker
schlepping DVDs of his movie through a two-week art-house
screening tour.  Dumped by his girlfriend, Rachel (Caroline White), the
lonely Alex recruits his friend Henry (Onur Tukel) to come along
for company, but first impulsively hooks up with a film-geek fan
(Jennifer Prediger) who doesn’t quite get the concept of a one-
night stand.  Soon enough, the guileless Henry has fallen for the
stalkerish fan (unaware of her night with Alex) and invited her
along, prompting some hilariously cringe-worthy moments in the
rental car, cheap motels and crummy diners that constitute the
low-budget life of a struggling filmmaker.  Karpovsky shot much of this ambling comedy during an art-
house tour of his earlier movie “ Woodpecker .” Even when it
drifts, “Red Flag” feels authentic, from its grim, barely
filled auditoriums to its raw heartache.  ‘Rubberneck’  In “ Rubberneck ,” a creepy, slow-paced psycho-thriller,
Karpovsky flips to the other side of the stalker equation. He
plays Paul, a Boston research scientist obsessed with a coworker
(Jamie Ray Newman) with whom he had a drunken fling.  Co-written by Karpovsky and Garth Donovan, “Rubberneck”
charts Paul’s mental deterioration, the tension stretched well
beyond his breaking point and my patience. A genuine shock leads
to an ending that’s as pat as it is gruesome.  “Red Flag” and “Rubberneck,” from Tribeca Film, are
playing in New York and available via video on demand. Rating:
*** (“Red Flag”) and ** (“Rubberneck”). (Evans)  ‘Inescapable’  Marisa Tomei can’t melt into a foreign accent the way Meryl Streep can. But then Meryl Streep doesn’t have Marisa Tomei’s
way with mascara.  As Fatima, a hardened Syrian woman who hasn’t stopped
fuming for the 20 years since her lover left her, Tomei brings
dark gorgeousness and angry intensity to the Damascus-set
thriller “ Inescapable .”  Alas, she’s not around that much. Most of the screen time
goes to Alexander Siddig, who plays an erstwhile Syrian
intelligence officer who long ago fled the country under a cloud
and risks returning to track down his missing daughter.  He knows how to slip across the border and whom to bribe.
Otherwise, his spooking skills seem to have rusted. He makes an
ugly scene at a mosque; his general tendency to yell, threaten
and brawl doesn’t suit a wanted man who’s trying to lay low.  (And for an anguished father who’s desperate for
information, he takes a weirdly long time to answer a ringing
phone or a knock on the door.)  Though ostensibly a political thriller, “Inescapable”
doesn’t acknowledge any Syrian-specific political problems
beyond the presence of “15 separate secret police agencies”
and a vaguely awful government.  As written and directed by Ruba Nadda, the movie could just
as well be set in Islamabad, Nairobi or any city Westerners find
threatening. (It was filmed, in fact, in Johannesburg.) It would
look about right on a cable channel at 9 p.m.  “Inescapable,” from IFC Films, is playing in New York and
Los Angeles. Rating: ** (Seligman)  (Greg Evans and Craig Seligman are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on art and a Lewis
Lapham podcast.  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 