-- ‘Was Hitler Ill?’, ‘How to Sharpen Pencils’ in Odd Titles
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/-was-hitler-ill-how-to-sharpen-pencils-in-odd-titles.html
“How to Sharpen Pencils,” “Was
Hitler Ill?” and “How Tea Cosies Changed the World” are among
finalists for the annual Diagram Prize for Oddest Book Title.  First awarded in 1978 and organized by the U.K.’s
 Bookseller  trade magazine, the prize seeks to celebrate the
diversity of publishing.  Past winners include “The Joy of Chickens,” “How to
Avoid Huge Ships,” “Greek Rural Postmen and Their Cancellation
Numbers” and “Versailles: The View From  Sweden .”  This year’s finalists -- announced by the Bookseller in an
e-mailed statement -- also include “Lofts of  North America :
Pigeon Lofts,” “Goblinproofing One’s Chicken Coop” and
“God’s Doodle: The Life and Times of the Penis.”  The contending titles were nominated by publishers,
booksellers, authors, agents and librarians. The person who
nominates the winner receives a bottle of “fairly passable”
claret.  “Was Hitler Ill?” by Hans-Joachim Neumann and Henrik
Eberle (Polity Press) is an analysis by a historian and
professor of medicine of the German dictator’s mental condition.
David Rees’s book about pencils, published by Melville House, is
a lengthy illustrated guide for artists and others on how to
achieve a perfect point.  First awarded in 1978, the contest was conceived as a way
to avoid boredom at the Frankfurt Book Fair, Bookseller editors
say. The inaugural prize in 1978 went to “Proceedings of the
Second International Workshop on Nude Mice.”  Genghis Dentists  Since 2000, the prize has been put to a public vote,
allowing “the unwashed masses to decide,” as a past Bookseller
release put it. Since then, winning titles have included
“Living With Crazy Buttocks,” “Cooking With Poo,” “ The
2009-2014 World Outlook for 60-Milligram Containers of Fromage
Frais ,” “ Managing a Dental Practice: The Genghis Khan Way ”
and “If You Want Closure in Your Relationship, Start With Your
Legs.”  The prize has become an institution, generating two bound
collections of winning jackets, including “How to Avoid Huge
Ships: And Other Implausibly Titled Books.”  The winner will be announced on March 22. Information:
 http://www.thebookseller.com/diagram-prize   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food;  New York  and
 London   weekend guides ;  Lewis Lapham  on history and  Lance Esplund 
on New York art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 