-- Abe Visit Affirms Ties With Obama Amid China, N. Korea Tensions
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-02-23T01:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/abe-to-vow-japan-will-fend-off-island-challenge-in-china-dispute.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
and President  Barack Obama  reaffirmed the importance of their
alliance and played down potential differences on trade and
currency as  Japan ’s concerns mount over an assertive  China  and
North Korea.  In a meeting at the White House yesterday, Obama praised
Abe’s efforts to revive Japan’s economy and didn’t mention the
resulting fall in the yen, according to Katsunobu Kato, a
cabinet official present at the meeting. Abe explained Japan’s
plans to boost  defense spending , while emphasizing he had no
intention of escalating a territorial dispute with China.  Tensions have been rising in waters around the uninhabited
islands known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese,
where ships and planes from  Asia ’s two largest economies have
been tailing one another for months. A third nuclear test by
North Korea has also sparked fresh security concerns.  “Japan is one of our closest allies and the U.S-Japan
alliance is the central foundation for our regional security,”
Obama told reporters after the meeting and before a working
lunch.  U.S. officials have repeatedly said that the islands
disputed with China fall under its security treaty with Japan,
even though the U.S. takes no position on ownership of the
islands.  Japanese Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida said Secretary of
State  John Kerry  reiterated this position in a separate meeting
they had later in the day.  ‘Taking Responsibility’  “In view of the increasingly difficult security
environment that surrounds us, Japan intends to carry out its
responsibilities alongside the U.S.,” Abe told a press
conference after the summit. He added that Japan would increase
defense spending and was revamping a five-year defense plan to
strengthen its capabilities.  Abe reiterated Japan’s position that there is no
territorial dispute over the East China Sea islands, which it
controls. Ties with China are important to Japan and he would
welcome talks with Chinese Communist Party Secretary General Xi Jinping, he said.  Tensions over the islands flared in September when Japan
bought three of them from a private owner, sparking violent
protests in China that damaged Japanese businesses. Bilateral
trade fell 3.3 percent last year to $333.7 billion, the first
drop since 2009.  The U.S. and Japan also are focusing on the threat from
 North Korea  following that country’s third nuclear test. At the
White House, Abe said “we just cannot tolerate” North Korea’s
continued testing of missiles and nuclear devices.  Fresh Measures  He and Obama agreed to cooperate on fresh measures,
including financial sanctions, against North Korea, Abe said at
his press conference.  On trade, Obama and Abe released a statement saying that
abolition of all tariffs wasn’t a condition for joining talks on
a regional trade agreement known as the Trans Pacific
Partnership. Abe had made such an understanding a requirement
for entering the talks, and told reporters in Washington that he
wanted to decide on whether to enter the talks as soon as
possible after briefing his ruling  Liberal Democratic Party .  “I told the president that reviving the Japanese economy
is the priority of my cabinet,” Abe said at a press conference.
Abe, who plans bold monetary easing in a bid to escape
deflation, said he and Obama had shared the view that reviving
the Japanese economy would be significant for the U.S. and for
the world.  Seeking Turnaround  Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, is struggling to
escape three quarters of contraction through December and 15
years of falling prices. Abe has pushed the central bank to be
more aggressive in combating deflation, and will replace the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  governor and his two deputies next month.  He said yesterday he planned to confer more with his bank
candidates and consult with his ruling coalition partner and
opposition parties on the central bank nominations next week.  Abe’s plans for loose monetary policy have sparked
criticism from German officials and some in U.S. industry,
including Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s president of the Americas, have
expressed concern about the fall of the yen.  The yen slid to as low as 94.46 per dollar on Feb. 11, a
level unseen since May 2010, and traded at 93.27 as of 5:12 p.m.
in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Washington  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  