-- Abercrombie Slides After Forecasting Quarterly Loss
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-02-22T21:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/abercrombie-profit-triples-as-international-sales-gain.html
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  declined the
most in five months after the teen retailer forecast a loss for
the first quarter, citing concern about the weak economy’s
impact on sales.  The shares fell 4.5 percent to $46.86 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day loss since Sept. 21. Abercrombie,
which has lost 2.3 percent this year, was the  biggest  decliner
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The retailer has been working to improve its fashion
assortment and close underperforming U.S. stores while expanding
overseas. Abercrombie  said  it anticipates a “slight” loss in
earnings per share in the first quarter compared with a 25-cent
loss last year, citing a tough economy and difficulty tied to
cold-weather inventory. It also forecast full-year comparable
sales that will be little changed from the previous 12 months.  Abercrombie was “very concerned around the macroeconomic
situation coming into the first quarter,” Chief Executive
Officer Michael Jeffries said on a conference call today, after
the company reported fourth-quarter results. The retailer will
“see a resumption of healthier sales” in the second quarter,
he said.  For the fiscal year,  New Albany , Ohio-based Abercrombie
anticipates profit of about $3.35 to $3.45 a share, excluding
the effect of share buybacks. Analysts project adjusted earnings
per share for the year of $3.67.  Valuing Inventory  Fourth-quarter net income, calculated using a new system
for valuing inventory, advanced to $157.2 million, or $1.95 a
share, from a restated $45.8 million, or 52 cents, a  year 
earlier, Abercrombie said today in a statement.  Under the previous method of accounting, fourth-quarter net
income rose to $173.2 million, or $2.15 a share, from $19.6
million, or 22 cents, a year earlier.  Sales for the fourth quarter ended Feb. 2 rose 11 percent
to $1.47 billion. The average  estimate  of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was $1.49 billion. International sales rose 34 percent
to $492.2 million and direct-to-consumer sales jumped 26 percent
to $266.4 million.  Abercrombie changed its method of accounting for inventory
in the quarter. Under the old method, the company valued
inventory based on its weighted average cost and initial retail
selling price, then recorded charges to the cost of goods sold
when the selling price was reduced. In the new system, the
company doesn’t reduce the value of inventory unless it expects
to sell the merchandise below its original cost.  Comparable Sales  The company, which saw comparable sales  decline  1 percent
for the year through Feb. 2, has been making strides toward
regaining shoppers and boosting profitability. Abercrombie has
hired a consulting firm to help it reduce costs and is
conducting its first global market research study to “better
understand our customers’ perceptions of us, as well as our key
competitors,” Jeffries said on today’s call.  Abercrombie, which has said it plans to close 180 U.S.
locations through 2015, said today it is shuttering 40 to 50
stores domestically this year, while opening Abercrombie
flagships in Seoul and  Shanghai . The company said it will also
open 20 international Hollister stores.  Store Openings  Activist investor Ralph Whitworth, who last year pressed
Abercrombie to cut back on store openings overseas and reduce
spending, sold his stake in the teen retailer during the fourth
quarter.  Whitworth’s Relational Investors LLC, which held 5.1
 percent  of Abercrombie’s shares as of Sept. 30, no longer owns
the stock, according to a regulatory filing on Feb. 14.  Whitworth had told the company it could be worth $50 a
share if spending came in line with its rivals, a person
familiar with the matter told  Bloomberg News  last year.  The retailer’s top two stakeholders are FMR LLC, the parent
of  Fidelity Investments , with 15 percent of shares, and Citadel
Advisors LLC, with 5.9 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The retailer also boosted its quarterly  dividend  by 14
percent to 20 cents a share, from 17.5 cents. It’s payable March
19 to shareholders of record as of March 4.  Abercrombie, which operates more than 800 namesake and
Hollister stores, had added 2.3 percent this year through
yesterday.  The retailer’s  shares  soared by 34 percent, the most since
its initial public offering in 1996, on Nov. 14, when it boosted
its full-year profit forecast and reported third-quarter results
that beat analysts’ expectations. Abercrombie slid 1.8 percent
last year and 15 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  