-- Thai Stocks to Sustain Rally on Local Buying, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-02-22T03:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/thai-stocks-to-sustain-rally-on-local-buying-credit-suisse-says.html
Thailand ’s  stocks  will extend a
rally that’s sent the benchmark index to a 19-year high, driven
by domestic retail investors and low interest  rates , according
to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The  SET Index (SET)  may rise to 1,712 this year, a 12 percent
advance from yesterday’s close, Dan Fineman and Siriporn Sothikul, analysts at Credit Suisse, wrote in a note today. The
gauge climbed 0.2 percent to 1,532.17 at 10:11 a.m. in Bangkok.  “Surging domestic liquidity should carry the SET to a 19-
year high this year,” according to the report. “ Interest rates 
should remain low, economic data should stay healthy and
valuations for most large caps are not stretched. We do not see
serious risks until the second half.”  The Bank of Thailand maintained its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 2.75 percent on Feb. 20, the lowest  level  since
April 2011, as domestic consumption and exports rebound and
economic growth accelerates. Gross domestic product expanded a
more-than-estimated 18.9 percent in the fourth quarter, the
government said on Feb. 18.  The SET has gained 9.8 percent this year, climbing to its
highest level since January 1994 on Feb. 20. The measure trades
at 13.8 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the
Philippine benchmark index’s 18.5 times,  Indonesia ’s 14.4 times
and Malaysia’s 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Retail Driven  “Evidence of a retail investor-driven, liquidity-fuelled
rally is now manifold,” according to the report. “Local
trading as a percentage of total volumes has surged. Foreign net
buying is among the lowest in  Asia  this year.”  Overseas investors  have bought a net $72.8 million of Thai
stocks this year through yesterday, 95 percent less than the
same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Local institutional  investors  including mutual funds and
insurance companies were net buyers of 11.8 billion baht ($396
million) of local shares in February, the data show.  Rising asset prices and accelerating  inflation  may pose
risks to stocks in the second half of the year, according to the
report.  Property and hotel stocks are the “top short-term
sectors,” the brokerage said, recommending  LPN Development Pcl (LPN) ,
 Asian Property Development Pcl (AP)  and Supalai Pcl for their “cheap
multiples, rapid growth and strong first-half launch
pipelines.”  Central Plaza Hotel Pcl (CENTEL)  and Minor International Pcl offer
“great growth coming off a cyclical trough,” the brokerage
wrote.  Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF)  is the top pick for investors
with “a 12-month view” as declining feed costs and a recovery
in meat prices boosts earnings, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  