-- Syrian Rebels Plan Transitional Government, Seize Nuclear Center
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 2013-02-22T17:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/al-qaeda-linked-groups-carried-out-damascus-bombing-syria-says.html
Syria ’s main opposition group agreed
to set up a transitional government seeking recognition as the
legitimate alternative to President Bashar al-Assad’s rule, as
rebels said they seized control of a nuclear research center.  The Syrian National Coalition will name a premier for the
new administration within 10 days, Haitham El-Maleh, a leading
member of the group, said in a phone interview. He didn’t give
further details.  Syrian rebel fighters seized control of a nuclear research
center at Al Kibar, in the eastern province of Deir Ezzour,
which was reportedly bombed by Israelis in 2007, the opposition
Local Coordination Committees said in an e-mail. At least 85
people were killed today by Assad’s forces, the opposition Local
Coordination Committees said, according to Al Arabiya
television.  The coalition was set up in November at a meeting in Qatar
to unify the forces, including Islamist groups, that have been
fighting for two years to oust Assad. While it has won backing
from the U.S., European allies and Arab League nations, it’s not
clear how much control the group has over rebel forces engaged
on the ground in a conflict that has killed almost 70,000
people, according to United Nations estimates.  Syria’s government and the National Coalition have both
signaled in the past month that they are ready to hold talks,
though there has been no agreement over terms and conditions.  Damascus Attack  The opposition group won’t accept any political solution
that doesn’t involve Assad’s departure, and will insist that the
president and his military and security leaders be tried for
crimes against Syrians,  Egypt ’s state-run Middle East News
Agency reported today, citing a document drafted by the
coalition after a two-day meeting in Cairo.  The government said a bomb attack in Damascus yesterday
that left 53 people dead was carried out by groups linked to al-
Qaeda. The bombing in the densely populated area also injured
235 people, the government said in a letter to the United
Nations that was published by the state-run SANA news agency.
The casualties included children and students, it said.  The opposition Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on
its Facebook page that 61 people were killed in the bombing,
including 17 members of the military. The attack took place in
the vicinity of the Russian Embassy and the ruling Baath Party
headquarters. No Russian diplomats or their families were hurt
in the attack, which damaged the embassy’s windows and doors,
 Russia ’s Foreign Ministry said.  The opposition coalition blamed Assad’s government for the
attack, saying it “never hesitates” to bomb residential areas.  “The Assad regime has opened the doors for anarchy in
Syria in order to justify committing heinous and unprecedented
crimes against the innocent Syrian population,” the group said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  