-- Alcatel Names Combes CEO as France Said to Consider Stake
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-02-22T10:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/alcatel-names-combes-ceo-as-france-said-to-weigh-investment.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA named former
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  executive  Michel Combes  as chief, tapping a
phone-industry veteran with cost-cutting experience as the
French network-equipment maker struggles to return to profit.  The company’s stock rose as much as 3.5 percent after
Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent said Combes, 51, will take over on
April 1. In his more than 20 years in the telecommunications
industry, Combes has reduced expenses at Vodafone and overseen
finances at  France Telecom SA. (FTE)   The French national will replace Ben Verwaayen, who quit
this month after failing to stem losses. Sales are plunging amid
competition from Ericsson AB, Nokia Siemens Networks and Asian
rivals, and Combes will need to find ways to slash costs amid
pressure from the French government, which is also considering
investing in the company, said people with knowledge of the
deliberations.  “Alcatel’s problems remain,” said Mirko Maier, an analyst
at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany . “Combes
will need to look at what NSN has done and improve their effort
to cut costs further, not an easy task to do in  France .”  Nokia Siemens, the joint venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Siemens
AG, returned to profit after a cost-reduction program including
17,000 job cuts. Alcatel-Lucent’s job eliminations thus far have
been less aggressive.  Challenges Ahead  Alcatel-Lucent, which was taken out of France’s CAC 40
index in December, rose as high as 1.18 euros and  traded  at 1.15
euros at 11:05 a.m. in Paris, valuing the company at 2.7 billion
euros ($3.6 billion). The company’s shares have declined for
three consecutive years.  Combes will face the task of stemming losses and turning
around a company which has consumed 700 million euros of cash
annually on average since it was created through the 2006 merger
of Alcatel SA and Lucent Technologies.  “His deep knowledge of the industry as well as his
experience of major business and financial transformation at a
worldwide level will be pivotal in helping the company pursue
its aggressive transformation,” Chairman Philippe Camus said in
a statement.  Combes is set to spend the first months sounding out
stakeholders within and outside Alcatel, and will make decisions
on his plans for the company by the end of May, said Simon Poulter, an Alcatel-Lucent spokesman in Paris.  Monty Support  Camus, who has been at the company since 2008 and is
seeking to renew his mandate at a yearly  shareholders’ meeting 
in May, hired Verwaayen when he joined Alcatel-Lucent in 2008.
The two men took over from  Patricia Russo  and Serge Tchuruk, who
oversaw the merger and couldn’t translate billions of dollars of
research to develop equipment used in the newest generation of
wireless networks into profit.  Still, earnings also failed to recover under Verwaayen,
even as he cut thousands of jobs and sold assets. To support
Combes, Alcatel-Lucent today named former BCE Inc. and Nortel
Networks Corp. executive Jean Monty vice chairman.  Combes was due to take over  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR phone unit
last year and didn’t proceed with the move. The executive had
been recruited by Vodafone’s Vittorio Colao when he took over as
CEO in 2008, and had previously held positions at France Telecom
and French mobile-phone tower company TDF.  Combes’s Moves  At Vodafone, Combes oversaw a 2 billion-pound ($3 billion)
cost-cutting program, reducing headcount and lowering spending
on network gear and logistics. As head of  Europe , Vodafone’s
largest market by revenue, he also changed pricing across
European markets, bringing in data tariffs tied to consumption.  Combes expanded Vodafone’s data and enterprise businesses
across Europe and was renowned for his energy and enthusiasm,
said an official at the Newbury, England-based carrier who asked
not to be identified.  From his days as  France Telecom ’s chief financial officer,
Combes has a reputation for working long hours and was known for
calling in meetings early on Sunday mornings, according to
people who have worked with him and declined to be named because
they aren’t allowed to speak to the press.  French Stake?  France taking a minority stake in Alcatel-Lucent,
potentially through the Fonds Strategique d’Investissement state
vehicle, is among alternatives being considered by the
administration, said a government official, who asked not to be
identified as he wasn’t authorized to be cited by the media.
France is seeking to protect Alcatel-Lucent’s patent portfolio,
partially inherited from  New Jersey ’s storied Bell Labs research
center, which touches on video-conferencing as well as data
compression and transfer.  Other plans that have been considered by officials include
encouraging a merger between Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia Siemens,
or an investment in Alcatel-Lucent’s undersea cable business,
said the people.  Even with the government as a major backer, Alcatel-Lucent
faces an uncertain future in a highly competitive industry.
 China ’s Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  have taken market
share from European competitors, falling short only in the U.S.,
where security concerns prevent them from winning major network
contracts.  Alcatel-Lucent has held exploratory talks on an eventual
merger with Finland’s Nokia Siemens, people familiar with the
discussion said this month. The deal would reduce the number of
major European firms in the sector to two, along with  Sweden ’s
Ericsson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  