-- Alleghany CEO Hicks Likens Central Banks to Medieval Bloodletter
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-02-22T18:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/alleghany-ceo-hicks-likens-central-banks-to-medieval-bloodletter.html
Federal Reserve efforts to boost
liquidity in the banking system haven’t shown proof of helping
the economy and are punishing savers,  Alleghany Corp. (Y)  Chief
Executive Officer Weston Hicks wrote to shareholders.  “Much like Theodoric of York, the medieval barber on
‘Saturday Night Live’ whose solution to every health problem was
more bloodletting, central bankers continue to force liquidity in
the banking system without any objective proof that it is
helping,” Hicks said in a  letter  posted on the New York-based
insurer’s website, referring to the character played by comedian
 Steve Martin  on the U.S. television show. “We do know that it
isn’t helping retirees, pension funds, or insurance companies.”  Hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  and Tad Montross, CEO of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc .’s General Re unit, have also said central
bank monetary policy hurts savers. The Fed, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , has kept interest rates near zero since December
2008 and expanded its  balance sheet  to more than $3 trillion for
the first time through bond purchases.  Bernanke defended the Fed’s  interest-rate  policy in an Oct.
1  speech  in Indianapolis, saying it will spur growth and support
employment. Savers may also own homes, run businesses, have jobs
or hold stocks in their portfolios, meaning they will benefit
from a stronger economy, Bernanke said.  “I know that people who rely on investments that pay a
fixed interest rate, such as certificates of deposit, are
receiving very low returns, a situation that has involved
significant hardship for some,” Bernanke said. “Only a strong
economy can create higher asset values and sustainably good
returns for savers.”  Home Values  Home values in 20 U.S. cities rose 5.5 percent in the 12
months from November 2011, the most in more than six years,
according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property prices.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed to a five-year high on
Feb. 19 and  unemployment  fell below 8 percent last year for the
first time since 2009.  Hicks joined Alleghany in 2002 and helped build the insurer
through investments and  takeovers , including the purchase of
Transatlantic Holdings Inc. last year for more than $3 billion.
The insurer has a market value of more than $6 billion after
posting an annualized return of 8.5 percent in the 10 years ended
Dec. 31, beating the S&P 500’s 7 percent.  Persistent low interest rates will push Alleghany to invest
more in equities, said Hicks, who became CEO in 2004. The
insurer’s fixed-income portfolio was valued at about $16 billion
at the end of December, according to a regulatory filing.  ‘Overvalued’ Bonds  “While the equity market remains expensive by historical
standards, it appears to be less overvalued than the  bond market ,
which now discounts all but the most extreme deflationary
scenarios,” he wrote. “If this environment persists, we would
expect over time to increase our allocation to equity
securities.”  Fed spokesman  David Skidmore  in  Washington  declined to
comment about the letter.  Einhorn said in May that the Fed’s interest-rate policy was
“no longer useful” and risked inflation. Montross, the CEO of
reinsurer Gen Re, said last year that low rates were hurting
insurers and spurring companies to raise the cost of coverage.  Hicks’s criticism overlooks the damage that could be caused
by higher rates, said Josh Feinman, the global chief economist
for DB Advisors, the Deutsche Bank AG asset management unit that
oversees $228 billion, and a former Fed senior economist.  “If you were to raise rates that would really be a
bloodletting,” Feinman said. “The overall economic situation
would be worse if the Fed were prematurely and artificially
trying to jack up rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  