-- Manchester United Plans to Bring Back Ronaldo: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-02-22T11:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/manchester-united-plans-to-bring-back-ronaldo-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Ronaldo Returning?  Manchester United  is trying to bring back  Cristiano Ronaldo 
from Real Madrid for 55 million pounds ($84 million), 25 million
pounds less than the Premier League leader traded him for in
2009, the  Daily Star  reported.  United is working on a deal in which Ronaldo would sign a
personal endorsement contract with team sponsor General Motors
Co.’s  Chevrolet  as early as this year, according to the Star.  Sagna Saga  Defender Bacary Sagna may be the lastest player to leave
Arsenal, the  Guardian  reported.  Sagna, 30, is disappointed at having been offered a one-
year extension to his current contract, which expires after the
2013-14 season, and is privately resigned to departing at the
end of this campaign, the Guardian said.  City Wingmen  Manchester City is interested in signing Borussia
Dortmund’s Marco Reus and Sevilla’s Jesus Navas, who are both
wingers, the  Daily Star  reported.  Reus, 23, is valued at 30 million pounds, while 27-year-old
Navas has a 35 million pounds buy-out clause, the Star said.  No Di Canio  West Ham co-owner  David Gold  says there is no job for
“cult hero” Paolo di Canio at Upton Park,  the Sun  reported.  Gold plans to open talks with current coach  Sam Allardyce 
over a new contract, the Sun said. Di Canio quit as manager of
Swindon this week.  Chelsea Signing  Chelsea has signed Chile Under-20 national team player
Cristian Cuevas for 1.7 million pounds from O’Higgins, the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  The 17-year-old had a trial with the Blues in November,
according to the Mirror.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  