-- Angola Should Cut Fuel Subsidies, Smooth Spending, IMF Says
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-02-22T12:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/angola-should-cut-fuel-subsidies-smooth-spending-imf-says.html
Angola ,  Africa ’s second-biggest oil
producer, should cut fuel subsidies and smooth the cycle of
spending tied to commodity prices, the International Monetary
Fund said.  The country spent about 6.3 percent of economic output on
fuel subsidies in 2011, compared with outlays of 1.7 percent for
education and health that were the lowest in the sub-Sahara
region, according to the IMF.  Fuel subsidies are unfair because they benefit the rich who
drive SUVs more than the poor, Nicholas Staines, the IMF’s
representative in Angola, said in a presentation late yesterday
in the capital, Luanda. He advocated spending the money on
improving the country’s social safety net.  Angola’s parliament approved a budget on Feb. 14 that
incorporated the operations of state oil company Sonangol EP for
the first time. It forecast a deficit of $4.1 billion, based on
an average crude price of $96 a barrel. Angola depends on oil
for about 40 percent of economic output and 70 percent of
government revenue.  Staines said Angola needs a stabilization fund to save
money when oil prices are high. He didn’t say whether the $5
billion sovereign wealth fund that Angola set up in October will
fulfill that task. It’s supposed to function both as a
stabilization fund and to help reconstruction after Angola’s
civil war, which ended in 2002, according to its statutes.  High Costs  Staines said the government is discussing a law that would
set an oil-price level below which ministers would be authorized
to draw on reserves.  He also praised the central bank’s success in reducing
inflation, which slowed to 8.9 percent last month from 13.7
percent in August 2011, while adding that “it can go quite a
bit further.” He said high prices mean that constructing 1
kilometer of road in Angola costs $2 million, compared with $1
million in  Mozambique , another former Portuguese colony.  The IMF loaned Angola about $1.4 billion starting in 2009
to back an overhaul of the economy and greater financial
transparency, after the country was hit by oil prices that fell
to about $33 a barrel.  Companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP
Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA (FP)  pump about 1.8 million barrels of oil a day in
Angola, second only to Nigeria in Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  