-- Asia Currencies Drop This Week on Fed Minutes, Intervention Talk
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-02-22T21:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/asia-currencies-drop-this-week-on-fed-minutes-intervention-talk.html
Asian currencies dropped this week,
led by Malaysia’s ringgit and South Korea’s won, on speculation
the Federal Reserve won’t extend monetary easing and regional
central banks will intervene to curb appreciation.  Policy makers should be ready to vary the pace of $85
billion a month of debt buying, which has boosted the supply of
dollars and spurred inflows to  emerging markets , according to
minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Jan. 29-30
meeting released Feb. 20. The Dollar Index rallied 0.8 percent
that day and 0.5 percent the next. Central bank officials in
South Korea and the  Philippines  said this week they would act to
curb currency swings.  “The Fed’s minutes had quite a big impact and the dollar
has been firmer broadly,” said  Koji Fukaya , president of
currency research and consulting company Office Fukaya in  Tokyo .
“There remains speculation some of the regional central banks
will intervene to halt appreciation in their currencies,” said
the former chief foreign-exchange strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG.  The ringgit dropped 0.8 percent this week to 3.1015 per
dollar in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The won fell 0.6 percent to 1,084.68,  Indonesia ’s rupiah
declined 0.4 percent to 9,709 and the Philippine peso weakened
0.2 percent to 40.685. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index,
which tracks the 10 most-active Asian currencies excluding the
yen, dropped 0.1 percent.  Europe Data  The Malaysian currency had its first weekly decline in
three after a composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in services and manufacturing in the 17-nation euro
area decreased to 47.3 this month from 48.6 in January, data
from London-based Markit Economics showed Feb. 21. That’s less
than a reading of 49 predicted by economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction.  “The weak economic data from  Europe  and concern that the
U.S. will cut its bond purchases are reducing demand for riskier
assets,” said Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a currency strategist at
CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “The Malaysian
currency should continue to trade within the 3.0850 to 3.1150
range in the short term.”  Korean Intervention  The won also completed its first weekly drop in three after
South Korean authorities indicated they will intervene to curb
gains that hurt the nation’s exports.  Japanese policies that have weakened the yen by 12 percent
against the dollar in the past three months are threatening the
competitiveness of Korean companies such as Samsung Electronics
Co. The new President Park Geun Hye may adjust currency trading
rules if needed, her transition team said in a policy report
released Feb. 21.  Authorities “want to show investors and speculators that
it’s not a one-way bet,” said Roy Teo, a currency strategist at
ABN Amro Bank NV in  Singapore . Intervention or measures to
reduce volatility are “quite likely,” he said.  The Philippine peso had its biggest weekly drop this month.
Central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a mobile-phone
message on Feb. 19 that authorities will employ “appropriate
macroprudential measures to address any financial stability
pressures that could result from further surges in capital
inflows.” The peso has gained 4.9 percent in the past year, the
best performer among Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies.  Elsewhere in the region,  Taiwan ’s dollar strengthened 0.3
percent this week to NT$29.658 against the greenback, according
to prices from Taipei Forex Inc.  China ’s  yuan  lost 0.04 percent
to 6.2351, Vietnam’s dong dropped 0.2 percent to 20,885,
 Thailand ’s baht was steady at 29.85 and  India ’s rupee rose 0.1
percent to 54.1850.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  