-- Aso Says Next BOJ Chief Doesn’t Have to Be From Finance Ministry
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-02-22T05:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/aso-says-next-boj-chief-doesn-t-have-to-be-from-finance-ministry.html
Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso
said that the next governor of the  Bank of Japan (8301)  doesn’t have to
be someone with a  finance ministry  background, after an
opposition party said it wouldn’t support such a candidate.  “They don’t have to be from the Ministry of Finance as
long as close communications are maintained,” Aso told
reporters in  Tokyo  today. He reiterated that the candidate
should have good foreign language skills and experience of
managing a large organization.  Investors are assessing the BOJ’s commitment to further
easing to meet a 2 percent inflation target as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe prepares to nominate a new central bank chief next
week. His choice must be approved by the upper house of
parliament where the ruling  Liberal Democratic Party  lacks a
majority, giving sway to opposition parties.  The yen was 0.2 percent lower at 93.28 per dollar at 1:45
p.m. in Tokyo.  Your Party leader  Yoshimi Watanabe  said in an interview on
Feb. 14 that Asian Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda
and former BOJ Deputy Governor Toshiro Muto are unacceptable
choices to succeed Masaaki Shirakawa as central bank governor
because they are both former Ministry of Finance bureaucrats.  “If this becomes a situation of ‘MOF sets currency policy
so the BOJ should keep its mouth shut,’ then there’s a fear the
BOJ won’t carry out bold monetary easing,” said Watanabe, whose
party has 12 legislators in the 242-seat upper chamber.  Watanabe told reporters today that he hopes the next BOJ
governor and two deputy governors are reflationists from outside
the government.  Abe will decide his nominee for a successor to Shirakawa
next week, once he returns from meeting President  Barack Obama 
in Washington, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told
reporters on Feb. 19 in Tokyo. Shirakawa and his two deputies
will step down on Mar. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  