-- Stocks Rebound From Slump as Pound Slides on Moody’s Cut
-- B y   A n d r e w   R u m m e r   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-02-22T21:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/australian-shares-rise-with-aussie-as-copper-platinum-advance.html
Global stocks rebounded from the
worst slump since November as German business confidence rose
more than forecast. Treasuries rose for a third day. The pound
slid following the close of markets in New York after the U.K.
government lost its Aaa rating from Moody’s Investors Service.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  climbed 0.6 percent after
sinking 1.8 percent in the previous two days amid concern the
 Federal Reserve  will scale back stimulus. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index added 0.9 percent, the most in two weeks, and
Germany’s DAX Index jumped 1 percent. The S&P GSCI Index of 24
raw materials halted a four-day slump as nickel and gasoline led
gains. The pound slipped 0.4 percent to $1.5197. The dollar
weakened against 10 of 16 major peers; the euro fell versus 14.  German business confidence increased to a 10-month high in
February, adding to signs that Europe’s largest economy is
gathering strength. In the U.S.,  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  and  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  Co. helped lead gains in stocks after
reporting quarterly results that beat analysts’ estimates. The
 S&P 500  trimmed its first weekly decline of the year.  “A lot of people have been looking for pullbacks in the
market to put money at work in equities,” said Brian Amidei, a
Palm Desert, California-based managing director at HighTower
Advisors. His firm manages about $25 billion. “The market got a
lift from fourth quarter earnings, it will do well this year but
we will have some volatility in between as we’re starting to see
now.”  ‘Too Far’  The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities still capped a
third week of declines, the longest slump since May. China’s
government told local authorities to curb real-estate
speculation, euro-area services and manufacturing shrank in
February and concern grew that the U.S. may curtail stimulus.
Italy’s parliamentary election starts on Sunday.  “The market got a little too far, too fast,” Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which oversees $55 billion, said on
Bloomberg Television’s “First Up” with  Susan Li . “But at the
same time improving economic fundamentals over the course of
2013 and a profit picture that came through earnings looking a
little better than what was expected all bode well for stock
prices to continue to advance.”  The S&P 500 rebounded from a two-day, 1.9 percent drop, its
worst since Nov. 8. Hewlett-Packard, the largest personal-
computer maker, rallied 12 percent for its biggest gain since
2008 after the company’s forecast for fiscal second-quarter
profit also exceeded analyst estimates and Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  reaffirmed a prediction that the company
will resume growth next year.  AIG Climbs  American International Group Inc., the insurer that repaid
a U.S. bailout, gained 3.1 percent after reporting an unexpected
operating profit. AIG plans to rebuild life insurance sales
outside the U.S. after selling operations in Asia and Europe to
help repay its bailout, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche 
said.  AIG replaced Apple Inc. as the top-held stock among hedge
funds in the fourth quarter, according to a report from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., as hedge funds became more bullish on equities
than they have been in six years. Net long exposure to stocks in
hedge funds climbed to 52 percent in the fourth quarter,
matching the 10-year high reached in the first quarter of 2007,
a team led by Goldman Sachs’ Amanda Sneider and  David Kostin 
said in a Feb. 20 report.  Bernanke, Bubbles  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  minimized concerns that the
central bank’s easy monetary policy has spawned economically-
risky asset bubbles in comments at a meeting with dealers and
investors this month, according to three people with knowledge
of the discussions. The people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks were private, said Bernanke made the remarks
at a meeting in early February with the Treasury Borrowing
Advisory Committee. Fed spokeswoman  Michelle Smith  declined to
comment.  The Fed chairman brushed off the risks of asset bubbles in
response to a presentation on the subject from the group, one
person said. Among the concerns raised, according to this
person, were rising farmland prices and the growth of mortgage
real estate investment trusts. Falling yields on speculative-
grade bonds also were mentioned as a potential concern, two
people said.  “The way we look at it, this may well be sowing the seeds
of a bubble in the asset markets,” Larry Kantor, the New York-
based head of research at Barclays Plc, said in a radio
interview with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg Surveillance.” “Every
cycle has its own idiosyncrasies and new things. The new thing
this time is central banks buying assets, really circumventing
the banking system. This whole idea of massive expansion of
central bank balance sheets is the new thing.”  Yields on 10-year U.S. Treasuries declined one basis point
to 1.97 percent, while two-year rates were little changed at
0.25 percent.  European Markets  The pound weakened against all 16 major peers, with the
currencies of Australia and  New Zealand  leading gains. The
U.K.’s domestic- and foreign-currency government bond ratings
were cut by one level to Aa1 from Aaa by Moody’s, which cited
continued weakness in the nation’s growth.  About five shares gained for each that fell in the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , sending the regional benchmark up 1.3 percent
after yesterday’s 1.5 percent plunge. Elan Corp. climbed 4.2
percent in Dublin as the drugmaker said it plans to buy back $1
billion of stock after selling its stake in the Tysabri multiple
sclerosis treatment to  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)   Fuchs Petrolub AG (FPE)  rose
5.9 percent as the German lubricant maker reported earnings that
beat projections.  German Confidence  The Ifo institute in Munich said its  business climate  index
advanced to 107.4 this month from 104.3 in January. Economists
had predicted a reading of 104.9, according to the median of 38
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  “Germany is the anchor of Europe,” Tobias Britsch, who
helps manage about $34 billion as European equities asset
manager at Meriten Investment Management GmbH, said by phone
from Dusseldorf, Germany. “After yesterday, when you saw
investors getting more nervous and all blame was on Italian
elections and on the suggestion the Fed may stop asset
purchases, any pullback is definitely an opportunity to buy.”  Euro Economy  Even so, the European Commission downgraded its outlook for
the euro-area economy today. Gross domestic product in the 17-
nation region will shrink 0.3 percent this year, compared with a
November prediction of 0.1 percent growth, the Brussels-based
commission forecast.  The  European Central Bank  said financial institutions will
return 61.1 billion euros ($80.5 billion) of its second loan
program next week, half the amount estimated by economists.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  was little changed after
the gauge’s biggest drop in seven months yesterday erased this
year’s gains. The Shanghai Composite Index retreated 0.5
percent, capping its worst week in 20 months.  Commodities advanced for the first time in five days, after
the S&P GSCI gauge fell 1.6 percent yesterday, the most since
November. Nickel climbed 2 percent as the relative strength
index slipped to 30 yesterday, the level that indicates to some
analysts who study technical charts that a rebound in prices may
be imminent.  ‘Dramatic Fall’  Oil futures for April delivery added 0.3 percent to $93.13
a barrel in New York, after slumping about 4 percent during the
prior two days.  The euro erased an earlier gain of as much as 0.4 percent
against the dollar. Some 356 financial institutions will hand
back 61.1 billion euros of ECB loans on Feb. 27, the first
opportunity for early repayment of the second Longer Term
Refinancing Operations, the central bank said. The median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for 122.5
billion euros to be repaid.  In addition, nine banks will return 1.7 billion euros
borrowed in the first three-year LTRO. That takes the total
amount of funds repaid early to 212.3 billion euros. The ECB
flooded financial markets with more than 1 trillion euros in
three-year loans a year ago after banks stopped lending to each
other because of Europe’s debt crisis.  Australia’s dollar climbed 0.8 percent to $1.0331.  Glenn
Stevens , governor of the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, said
interest-rate reductions are working. He endorsed the current
level of rates today and said he’d need to be confident the
currency is “seriously overvalued” before considering
intervention to weaken it. New Zealand’s currency advanced 0.5
percent to 83.79 U.S. cents after a report showed credit card
spending rose for a third-straight month in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  