-- Austria to Allow Regulators Early Intervention in Failing Banks
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-02-22T14:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/austria-to-allow-regulators-early-intervention-in-failing-banks.html
Austria ’s bank regulator will be
authorized to order banks to sell assets, raise capital or
restructure liabilities when they begin to run into trouble,
according to a draft law presented by the government.  The Finanzmarktaufsicht regulator, which oversees lenders
in the Alpine republic together with the central bank, will be
able to intervene before a bank actually falls below legally
mandated capital levels, according to the draft released by the
finance ministry today. Lenders would have to draw up advance
plans, or living wills, for how to restructure and wind down
their business in a crisis. The law is scheduled to enter into
force next year if it passes parliament.  “The banking restructuring law increases the crisis
resilience of the Austrian financial market and minimizes the
risk that tax money has to be spent to rescue financial
institutions,” Finance Minister Maria Fekter said in an OTS
statement.  Austria, which lost its top debt rating at Standard &
Poor’s last year mostly because of its banking industry, has
19.8 billion euros ($27 billion) at risk after it nationalized
three lenders on the brink of collapse between 2008 and 2012.
The bank restructuring law, which preempts European Union rules
still under consideration in Brussels, was brought forward after
last year’s nationalization of  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG. (VBPS)   Under the new law, a bank would have to specify measures
needed to restore its financial health if it hits predefined
triggers gauging its weakness. The measures to be prepared
include the quick sale of assets, capital raisings, and debt
restructurings. Separately, banks also have to draft wind-down
plans that allow to continue “critical functions and core
business areas” in case of an insolvency of the lender.  The FMA regulator can also call in shareholder meetings and
propose capital measures and debt restructurings if a bank fails
to present appropriate restructuring or wind-down plans,
according to the law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  