-- Avon CEO McCoy Embraces Technology to Reverse Profit Slump
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-02-22T21:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/avon-ceo-mccoy-embraces-technology-to-reverse-profit-slump.html
Shortly after becoming  Avon Products
Inc.’s (AVP)  chief executive officer last year, Sheri McCoy hit the
road, meeting with thousands of representatives, and even some
former sellers, to hear what the door-to-door cosmetics seller
could do better.  Many of the sales representatives had been through numerous
overhauls already as the New York-based company worked to
reverse years of declining  profits .  “They’d gone through a lot of change, and the question to
me was, ‘Sheri, how is this going to be different?’” McCoy, who
took over as CEO in April, said in an interview yesterday at the
Consumer Analyst Group of New York meeting in  Boca Raton ,
 Florida .  McCoy laid out how this time could be different. Her
strategy includes embracing technology with mobile applications
and putting brochures online, while adding more profitable home
and fashion products to boost  earnings  using the company’s more
than 6 million sales representatives.  “There is clearly an opportunity to improve Avon given how
much of a mess things are, but it will be a long, costly, bumpy
road to reach sustainability,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in an e-mail.  Avon  fell  1.9 percent to $19.96 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 39 percent this year, compared with an
9.4 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer
Staples Index.  Cutting Jobs  Last week, the shares surged the most in almost 40 years
after Avon’s fourth-quarter adjusted profit topped analysts’
estimates.  McCoy replaced  Andrea Jung , whose tenure as CEO since 1999
encompassed slumping earnings, a foreign bribery investigation
and a takeover attempt from Coty Inc.  McCoy is cutting about 1,500 jobs and leaving the  South
Korea  and Vietnam markets as part of a plan to save $400 million
by the end of 2015. The company is also seeking alternatives for
its Silpada jewelry unit.  “It just didn’t make sense, given all the other
priorities,” McCoy said of Silpada.  Those new priorities include an investment of as much as
$200 million in information technology systems by 2016 and
updating and repositioning brands such as its Anew anti-aging
line.  Brand Promoting  One thing she heard consistently during her travels was
that sellers wanted Avon to spend more on promoting and building
the brand. Much of that task had fallen to her predecessor,
Jung, who served as the face of Avon as she touted it as “the
company for women.”  McCoy said she doesn’t plan to follow suit.  “I don’t need to be out in front,” McCoy said. “In fact,
because it’s a socially connected brand, it should be everyone
connecting” with customers.  Still, marketing will be a big focus, including an emphasis
on digital, McCoy said. She has hired a new marketing chief,
Patricia Perez-Ayala, who joined the company in December after
more than 20 years at  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest
consumer-products company and world’s biggest advertiser.  “We have to continue to look at how we make direct selling
more modern in some ways,” including using technology to
amplify the social connections forged by the reps, she said.
“You see this blurring of the channels, and that’s why the
brand is so important because in the end, the consumer is going
to buy on the brand.”  McCoy came to lead the world’s largest direct seller from
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , where she was considered a top contender for
the CEO job.  “I was brought in with a clear focus to turn around the
company,” she said. “And I’m confident we’re going to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  