-- Balthazar Brings Brasserie to U.K., Owner Gets Nervous
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-02-22T00:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/balthazar-brings-brassiere-to-u-k-owner-gets-nervous.html
Keith McNally is the darling of the
New York restaurant scene, feted for establishments such as
Minetta Tavern and Balthazar, which he created in 1997.  He opened an outpost of Balthazar in London this week with
Richard Caring, who owns Caprice Holdings Ltd., which operates
restaurants such as Scott’s, the Ivy and J. Sheekey.  If you want to know the interest Balthazar is creating in
the food business, here’s what French chef Alain Ducasse had to
say when I asked him if he’d open his Benoit in London:  “It’s not impossible, but in London now it’s Balthazar.
McNally changed the perception of brasseries in New York. He
will change it in London. He’s so detailed, it’s an obsession.
He’s a designer of the classic French spirit, a genius, a real
restaurateur. He creates a feeling, a mood. It’s incredible.”  For someone beloved of celebrities, McNally, 61, is
remarkably un-starry. He’s softly spoken, with a self-
deprecating sense of humor. Born in Bethnal Green, East London,
he moved to New York in 1975, yet retains his British accent.  I interviewed McNally in Balthazar on Feb. 20. Here’s a
partial transcript of what he had to say.  Vines: There are high expectations in London. How much
pressure do you feel?  McNally: I’m the sort of person who wilts under pressure.
You know when they talk about someone you’d want to have in your
trench next to you when you’re under pressure? Well, I’m the
sort of person you wouldn’t want. I don’t like pressure but I
always bring it on myself. I know there are expectations.  I worry that I won’t come up with the goods and that
anxiety makes me work harder. I work around the clock to avoid
disappointing people. That’s a problem of mine.  Vines: Have you reproduced the successful formula for New
York or are you trying something different in London?  McNally: I wish I had a formula, but essentially it is very
much like New York. What you can’t transfer is the atmosphere,
or ambience or whatever you call it. I can reproduce a look but
what I like most about Balthazar in New York, I cannot bring
over.  Vines: How do you compare the New York and London
restaurant scenes?  McNally: There seems to have been the equivalent explosion
in food and restaurants here in the last five, six years that
there was in New York 10 to 15 years ago. It’s very vibrant here
and there’s a newness, a rawness to it. Already in New York, the
edges have been softened a bit, whereas here the edges are
sharp.  Vines: How do you get on with Richard Caring?  McNally: I hate to use the word bonded because I don’t
think I’ve bonded with anybody in my life -- it’s an
Americanism, I suppose -- but I got to know Richard and to like
him because we walked across Devon together. I walked from the
south coast to the north coast and Richard came on part of that
walk with me. It’s a sign of getting on with someone if you’re
comfortable not talking with them. We had very good silences.  Vines: In London, when people think of a big brasserie,
they think of the Wolseley. Is that a valid comparison?  McNally: It’s important that all big cities have a meeting
place, a bustling restaurant or brasserie where you can perhaps
see people you like and the food is good and ultimately you feel
that you can engage with the people you’re with. I suppose your
question is: Is there room for two restaurants of that kind?
Balthazar is French and I’m not sure I would call the Wolseley
French. I’d say it’s probably a little bit more relaxed here
than the Wolseley and maybe a bit younger. I go to the Wolseley
a couple of times a week. I really like it.  Vines: Might you open another place in London?  McNally: I was thinking about a pub in Notting Hill but the
burden of opening this has taken its toll. I just feel like
getting this up and running and I think it will take a long
time.  Balthazar, 4-6 Russell Street, Covent Garden, London, WC2B
5HZ. Information:  http://www.balthazarlondon.com/  or +44-20-
3301-1155.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on books; New York and
London  weekend guides ;  Lewis Lapham  on history and  Lance Esplund 
on New York art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  