-- Bartender Schaap Dishes on Cocktails, Tarot: Interview
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/bartender-schaap-dishes-on-cocktails-tarot-interview.html
Rosie Schaap  loves bar culture. For
her, pleasurable drinking is social drinking; she’s not
interested in getting liquored up alone.  The serial regular writes a boozy column for the  New York 
Times Magazine and has recently published a memoir about the
tipplers and tap houses she has loved called “ Drinking With
Men ” (Riverhead, $26.95). She also slings drinks herself one
night a week.  We spoke over a couple of whiskies at Puffy’s Tavern in
Tribeca, a place where she exhibited “pathological bar
behavior” for a year in the ’90s.  Smith: What makes a good regular?  Schaap: The best bar people are those who are actively
interested in others. If you really like bar life it’s because
you like listening to people as much as you like talking. And
common courtesy to your bartender: Would it kill you to say
please?  Smith: I used to be a bartender, too. Where do you work?  Schaap: I work at  South  in Park Slope,  Brooklyn . I love my
poky little Tuesday shift but every now and then it turns out to
be busy. This year both Christmas and New Year’s days fell on
Tuesday.  The busiest by far was the day after  Hurricane Sandy . No
one in the neighborhood could get into work and I was five deep
all day.  Subway Inn  Smith: Did the bars in your book have clean bathrooms?  Schaap: I really appreciate a clean bathroom. Though there
have been filthy bars that I’ve loved, I’ve never been a
regular. Like Mars Bar.  Smith: Or Subway Inn.  Schaap: I kind of love the Subway. One of the great
dissident experiences of my life this past summer was going to
dinner at Le Cirque, which was underwhelming, and then going to
the Subway, which was kind of like a breath of fresh air, even
if it doesn’t smell like one.  Smith: Your dad was the famous sports writer Dick Schaap.
Did you know early on that you wanted to be a writer? You seemed
to put it off and put it off.  Schaap: I always wrote. My father worked very hard -- I
think of him sitting there writing. I think of myself spending
half a day thinking about stuff.  Reading List  Smith: Who are you reading these days?  Schaap: I will read anything by Hilary Mantel, Alice Munro,
William Trevor, Jami Attenberg -- who has new book out called
“The Middlesteins” that’s fantastic. And Kate Christensen,
whose books are always full of drinking.  I still read poetry every day. I have a small circle of
friends and we have an e-mail poetry exchange. Ciaran Carson,
Simon Armitage, Don Paterson are some of my favorite living
poets.  Smith: Do you still read tarot cards?  Schaap: Very rarely. When I was writing the story I thought
I should take the cards out and do it again. Have you ever?  Smith: I like to read them on January first. Last year Miss
Ruby did a reading for me in Biloxi,  Mississippi ; it was really
very funny.  Schaap: Wow, a tarot card reading in the Deep South -- that
sounds like a story right there. I think they are fun and they
share with bartending the idea of how important it is to read a
person.  Current Favorites  Smith: So where do you drink now?  Schaap: I drink at South where I work but I’m not the kind
of regular I used to be.  I’m a big soccer fan and there’s a great soccer bar where I
watch on the weekend, that’s the Black Horse.  I like Walker’s in Tribeca, especially late at night.
There’s a bar on Reade Street called Ward III; they make great
cocktails and don’t have any attitude about it. I love a great
cocktail, but it’s not my everyday go-to.  Smith: I like simple drinks myself.  Schaap: I still love for a special occasion going to
Bemelmans Bar at the Carlyle; they have fantastic martinis. But
most of the time, I want a neighborhood bar where people are
talking and not talking about cocktails.  ( Catherine Smith  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  and  Greg Evans  on
 movies  and Zinta Lundborg’s  NYC weekend .  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Smith in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 