-- BBC’s Savile Known to Prefer Young Girls: Newsnight Host
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-02-22T16:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/bbc-s-savile-known-to-prefer-young-girls-newsnight-host.html
The host of the British Broadcasting
Corp.’s “Newsnight” program said it was well-known that former
“Top of the Pops” presenter Jimmy Savile had a penchant for
young girls.  It was “common gossip that Jimmy Savile liked, you know,
young -- it was always assumed to be girls,” Jeremy Paxman
said, according to transcripts published today by the U.K.’s
publicly funded broadcaster. His interview was part of a probe
that examined why “Newsnight” didn’t air a report in 2011
about allegations of Savile’s sexual abuse.  Savile, who was known for his charity work with children,
is accused of sexually abusing kids in care homes, hospitals and
on  BBC  property. The broadcaster was plunged into crisis after
 ITV Plc (ITV)  aired a report about the allegations against Savile,
which prompted George Entwistle to step down as BBC director
general. After Savile died in 2011 the BBC aired tributes to
him.  In his testimony, Paxman also cited cuts in staff and
resources at the BBC and pointed out that top editors on
“Newsnight” came from a background in radio. He said he felt
those people had more loyalty to the institution of the BBC than
allegiance to the news program.  The two-month “Newsnight” probe, led by former  British
Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  head of news Nick Pollard, said in
December that problems with the BBC’s “rigid” management
structure and sharing information contributed to a breakdown in
decision making.  ‘Unhappy Chapter’  “The BBC has been open and transparent in its handling of
this unhappy chapter in our history,” Tim Davie, the acting
director general, said in a statement today. “It is important
that the BBC now moves forward with the lessons learned and
continues to regain the public’s trust.”  Mark Thompson , another former director general who became
chief executive officer at  New York  Times Co. in November, said
in transcripts that he never worked with Jimmy Savile, nor
received any complaints about him.  While the Pollard review, which interviewed 19 people,
ruled that no undue pressure was put on editors to drop the
investigation into Savile, it cited an inability at the BBC to
deal with the events that followed, noting the “level of chaos
and confusion” was even greater than was clear at the time.  The BBC was sued earlier this month for so-called vicarious
liability by an unidentified victim in relation to Savile’s
actions, and lawyers have said dozens of other lawsuits are
pending. A former police investigator may also have intervened
on behalf of Savile in a 2009 probe into sex-abuse claims,
according to a U.K. watchdog reviewing police failures to
uncover the scandal before Savile’s death.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  