-- Before Vote
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-22T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/before-vote.html
Italian  consumer confidence 
unexpectedly rose this month as households await the outcome of
the Feb. 24-25 election.  The confidence index rose to 86 from a revised 84.7 in
January, the Italian statistics office Istat said in  Rome  today.
Economists had predicted a reading of the index to remain
unchanged at 84.6, according to the median of eight forecasts in
a Bloomberg News survey.  The  Bank of Italy  said on Jan. 18 that it expects household
spending to decline 1.9 percent this year.  Italy ’s economy
contracted the most in almost four years in the quarter through
December as its fourth recession since 2001 deepened.  Both the government and the central bank expect a recovery
in the second half of this year amid increasing exports.
Economists and businessmen are less optimistic about a pick-up
in domestic demand as unemployment tops 11.2 percent.  Final Days  Candidates are set to hold separate press conferences
tonight in a bid to win over voters who are undecided or may not
cast ballots, a group totalling about 30 percent of the
electorate according to polling companies. Final surveys before
a poll ban started Feb. 9 showed Democratic Party head Pier Luigi Bersani’s lead over rival  Silvio Berlusconi  narrowing to
about 6 percentage points in the vote for the lower house of
Parliament.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who’s seeking a second term,
has accused Berlusconi of trying to buy votes with “state
money” by promising to cut taxes and refund almost 4 billion
euros ($5.3 billion) collected last year from a property tax on
first homes.  Comedian Beppe Grillo, whose anti-establishment movement is
appealing to voters weary of political corruption, was polling
third before Monti’s coalition of centrists parties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  