-- Big Four Auditor Dominance Hurts Quality, Regulator Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-02-22T12:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/big-four-auditor-dominance-hurts-quality-regulator-says.html
The Big Four accounting firms’
dominance over corporate audits in Britain will probably lead to
higher prices and lower quality, and prevent clients from
meeting shareholders’ demands, a regulator said.  The situation makes it difficult to compare prices and
switch providers -- 31 percent of the U.K.’s 100 biggest
publicly traded companies have used the same accounting firm for
the past two decades, the Competition Commission said today in
provisional findings from a 16-month probe of the industry.  “Too often auditors’ focus is on meeting the needs of
senior management who are key decision takers on whether to
retain their services,” the Competition Commission said. “This
means that competition focuses on factors that are not aligned
with shareholder demand.”  The inquiry focused on  KPMG  LLP, Deloitte LLP, Ernst &
Young LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the same companies at
the center of a similar European Union effort to increase
competition in the industry. A U.K. government committee
investigating the global financial crisis had called for the
probe of the four accounting firms, which earned 99 percent of
the audit fees paid by the FTSE 100 companies in 2010.  The U.K. commission said it’s considering possible remedies
including requiring companies to seek public bids from auditors
on a regular basis, mandatory rotation of which ones are hired,
and banning “Big-Four only” clauses in loan documents. The
watchdog may also seek to boost the accountability of audit
committees and increase engagement between auditors and
shareholders, it said.  ‘Grossly Underestimated’  The Competition Commission said it will issue a final
report by Oct. 20.  All four companies challenged aspects of the regulator’s
findings in e-mailed statements.  Richard Sexton, the head of public policy at PwC, said the
Competition Commission had “grossly underestimated” the role
that audit committees play in protecting shareholders’
interests. Hywel Ball, the head of assurance at Ernst & Young in
the U.K. and Ireland, said the watchdog hadn’t found any
“excess profits” or collusion between firms.  “We don’t believe the evidence supports the contention
that current market conditions have led to unnecessarily higher
prices, lower quality or less innovation,” said David Barnes, a
managing partner at Deloitte U.K. “We categorically disagree
that auditors typically place the interests of management over
shareholders,” according to the Deloitte statement.  “We believe that audit quality and competition in the U.K.
is strong,” Simon Collins, chairman of KPMG in Britain, said in
a statement. “We fully recognize our duty to shareholders and
the absolute importance of our independence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  