-- Billionaires Buy Prokhorov’s Polyus Stake for $3.62 Billion
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-02-22T13:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/billionaires-buy-prokhorov-s-polyus-stake-for-3-62-billion-1-.html
Two Russian billionaires bought
 Mikhail Prokhorov ’s 37.8 percent stake in  Polyus Gold
International Ltd. (PGIL) , the country’s largest producer of the metal,
for $3.62 billion after winning approval from U.K. regulators.  Zelimkhan Mutsoev, a shareholder in potash producer OAO
Uralkali, purchased 18.5 percent for $1.77 billion and Gavriil Yushvaev, the former owner of dairy and juice maker Wimm-Bill-
Dann, acquired 19.3 percent for $1.85 billion, according to a
statement today from Prokhorov’s holding company Onexim Group.  The buyers were proposed by billionaire Suleiman Kerimov’s
Nafta Moskva investment firm, controlling 40 percent of Polyus,
three people with knowledge of discussions said in January. They
funded the deal with loans from state-run VTB Group, the people
said, asking not to be identified as the matter was private.  “The businessmen avoided having to make a mandatory buyout
to minority shareholders by acquiring the stakes separately,”
Alexander Litvin, a TKB BNP Paribas Investment Partners analyst
in St. Petersburg, said today by phone. Still, “we expect
Polyus dividend payments may increase on this deal.”  Polyus climbed as much as 5 percent in London trading, the
biggest intraday gain in four weeks, and advanced 0.9 percent to
221 pence as of 12:47 p.m.  Violent Crime  Yushvaev, 55, is ranked  Russia ’s 85th richest man by Forbes
with a $1.2 billion fortune. The billionaire served nine years
in a labor camp following a violent crime conviction in 1980,
according to Wimm-Bill-Dann’s prospectus for its initial public
offering. He made most of his wealth selling 19.6 percent of the
dairy company to  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  in 2010 and is the founder of the
Triniti car dealership.  Mutsoev, 53, a Russian parliament deputy since 1999, is
ranked 66th richest in Russia by Forbes. He tied up with Kerimov
in 2010 as OAO Silvinit and Uralkali agreed to merge to form the
world’s largest potash maker. Mutsoev’s 8.37 percent in the
combined company has a value of about $1.86 billion.  Wadge Holdings Ltd., jointly owned with Kerimov and other
Uralkali partners, sold bonds in November to  China ’s CIC
International Co. that are convertible into 12.5 percent of
Uralkali.  Mutsoev made his fortune investing in assets such as the
Pervouralsky pipe plant in the Urals, later sold to ChelPipe.  Prokhorov, a former Russian presidential candidate and the
owner of the Brooklyn Nets basketball team, is shifting from
commodities as he seeks to diversify his holdings. He still
holds 17 percent of United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest
aluminum producer. Onexim may sell its  Quadra Power Generation (TGKD) 
utility to an  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  unit, Interfax said on Feb. 21, citing
people familiar with the matter.  Rostelecom Report  “Polyus Gold has been one of Onexim Group’s major
assets,” Chief Executive Officer Dmitry Razumov said today in a
separate statement. Given “the balance between the company’s
achievements and its potential, we made the decision that the
time had come for Onexim Group to sell and realize its profit.”  The proceeds of the sale will be used for current and
future investment projects, Onexim said. The group has held
talks to buy 10.5 percent of Rostelecom from investor Konstantin Malofeev, Vedomosti reported this week, citing an unidentified
banker and people close to the discussions.  The Polyus Gold stake had a value of about $3.85 billion
based on yesterday’s closing price of 219 pence in  London . The
gold producer rose 15 percent from Jan. 14, after the three
people said Prokhorov had reached an agreement with investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  