-- Bill Gross Says Bonds Advance This Week for Wrong Reason
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-02-22T13:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/bill-gross-says-bonds-advance-this-week-for-wrong-reason.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
gains in Treasuries this week were misguided.  Ten-year securities snapped two days of gains today. They
advanced earlier amid speculation economic growth will slow as
the  Federal Reserve  reduces its stimulus efforts, Gross said.
Several policy makers said at the Fed’s last meeting that
officials should be ready to vary the pace of its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases, according to minutes of the central
bank’s Jan. 29-30 meeting released this week.  “The Treasury market has caught a bid based upon that
potential expectation,” Gross said yesterday in  New York  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with  Trish Regan  and
 Adam Johnson . “I sort of think otherwise. Yields, certainly in
the mortgage market, and the Treasury market, might go up.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  was little changed at 1.98 percent
at 8:31 a.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
data. The price of the 2 percent note due in February 2023 was
at 100 5/32. The yield dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, during the previous two days.  Treasuries returned 0.1 percent this week as of yesterday,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. They have
generated a 0.8 percent loss this year, the data show.  The U.S. central bank buys bonds to pump money into the
economy, and it will probably stick to the policy through 2013,
said Gross, who is based in  Newport Beach ,  California .  Total Return  The $285.6 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  has handed
investors a 7.7 percent gain in the past year, ranking in the
93rd percentile among its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It has lost 0.1 percent in 2013. Pimco is a unit of
Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   Gross boosted holdings of Treasuries in the fund to 30
percent in January from 26 percent in December, according to the
company’s  website . Investors should buy five-year Treasuries and
avoid longer-term bonds, which reflect future inflation, he
wrote on Twitter on Feb. 8.  Discussions among policy makers about changes in stimulus
prompted some concern that “this could hamper economic growth,
so  risk aversion  is back,” said Ralf Umlauf, head of floor
research at Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt . Still it
was “clearly in the minutes that the economy was weak in the
winter quarter, and there’s no inflation pressure, so
economically there’s no reason for the Fed to cut back soon,”
he said.  The 10-year yield will probably climb to 2.20 percent by
year-end, he said.  Slow Growth  Economic growth is slow enough to send yields lower, said
Chungkeun Oh, who invests in Treasuries for  Industrial Bank of
Korea (024110)  in  Seoul . Oh said he bought Treasuries earlier this month
when the 10-year yield was 2.05 percent.  “I’m not so confident in the  U.S. economy ,” he said.
“The market data are negative sometimes.”  Ten-year yields will fall to 1.90 percent by March 31 and
then rise to 2.32 percent by year-end, based on a Bloomberg
survey of financial companies with the most recent projections
given the heaviest weightings.  The Commerce Department will revise its estimate of gross
domestic product in the fourth quarter to 0.5 percent growth
from a 0.1 percent contraction, according to a Bloomberg survey
of economists before the report on Feb. 28. Orders for durable
goods fell in January for the first time since August, a
separate report will show Feb. 27, analysts estimate.  Debt Sales  The Treasury is scheduled to sell $35 billion of two-year
notes on Feb. 25, the same amount of five-year securities the
next day and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Feb. 27.  Indirect bidders, a group that includes foreign central
banks, bought 54.5 percent of the $9 billion of 30-year
inflation-indexed securities sold by the Treasury yesterday.
That compared with 49.1 percent in the previous auction. Overall
demand fell, with the so-called bid-to-cover over ratio dropping
to 2.47 times the amount offered, from 2.82 times.  The securities are intended to provide a hedge against
rising prices.  Pimco’s Gross said central bank efforts to spur growth will
boost costs in the economy and inflation may quicken to 3
percent over the next few years. Consumer prices rose 1.6
percent in January from a year earlier, the Labor Department
reported yesterday.  The yield difference between 10-year notes and similar-
maturity inflation-linked bonds, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices, was at 2.54 percentage points today, up from
2.45 percentage points on Dec. 31. The average for the past five
years is 2.03 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  