-- BOE Plans to Sign Yuan Currency Swap Deal With China
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-02-22T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/boe-plans-to-sign-yuan-swap-line-arrangement-with-china-shortly.html
The  Bank of England  and the  People’s
Bank of China  plan to sign a deal soon on a three-year currency-
swap arrangement as  London  pushes to become an offshore center
for  yuan  trading.  BOE Governor Mervyn King and his PBOC counterpart,  Zhou Xiaochuan , met in Beijing yesterday, and their central banks
will “facilitate” discussions on the yuan-sterling swap, the
BOE in London said in an e-mailed statement.  “The arrangement would be used to finance trade and direct
investment between the two countries and to support domestic
financial stability should market conditions warrant,” the BOE
said. King and Zhou agreed to “work together to sign the final
agreement shortly.”  A role for London as an offshore center for yuan trading
would help it to deepen links with the world’s second-largest
economy. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
welcomed yesterday’s announcement, which he said will “cement”
London as a western hub for the yuan market.  China  already has
currency-swap agreements with countries including Australia,
 South Korea  and  Malaysia .  “It’s very significant for yuan internationalization,”
Nathan Chow, a Hong Kong-based economist at DBS Group Holdings
Ltd., said by telephone. “Unlike Thailand or Mongolia, the U.K.
is an international financial center and a hub for Europe. The
low usage of yuan in global trade is inconsistent with China
being the world’s second-largest economy.”  Cross-Border Yuan  China has allowed businesses to settle foreign trade in
yuan and signed swaps to promote the use of the currency in
international trade and investment. It has also eased rules for
foreign companies to invest in the country using yuan raised
offshore and started direct trading with currencies including
the yen as part of efforts to make the yuan a global currency.  Cross-border trading of yuan expanded four-fold since
August 2010 to almost 200 billion yuan ($32 billion) in October
last year, Euroclear Bank SA said in a statement in December,
citing Hong Kong Monetary Authority figures. China has currency-
swap agreements totaling about 1.8 trillion yuan, the Taipei-
based Chung-Hua Institution for  Economic Research  said in a
report in November.  ‘Thriving’ Market  Yesterday’s “announcement supports Britain’s ambition to
build a thriving renminbi market in London,” Osborne said,
using an alternative name for the Chinese currency. “It is
another sign that in the global race, Britain is seen as open
for business by emerging and established markets alike.”  The Bank of England’s chief cashier, Chris Salmon, said
last month that the U.K. central bank is ready “in principle”
for an agreement with the PBOC. He said the idea of London as a
major yuan center “carries much force.”  “London is growing rapidly as a center for RMB business,”
King said in the statement. The swap line will “support U.K.
domestic financial stability. In the unlikely event that a
generalized shortage of offshore  renminbi  liquidity emerges, the
bank will have the capability to provide renminbi liquidity to
eligible institutions in the U.K.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  