-- Boeing’s Proposed Dreamliner Fix Awaits U.S. FAA Analysis
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-02-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/boeing-offers-787-battery-fixes-in-meeting-with-u-s-faa.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  awaits a response from
the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  after submitting its
plan to fix the 787 Dreamliner’s batteries and get the company’s
most advanced plane back in service.  Boeing Commercial Airplanes President Ray Conner met
yesterday with FAA Administrator Michael Huerta at the agency’s
headquarters in  Washington , according to statements from the
company and the agency. The FAA said it was reviewing Boeing’s
proposal, though the agency and the company didn’t provide
details about what was discussed during the meeting.  “The safety of the flying public is our top priority and
we won’t allow the 787 to return to commercial service until
we’re confident that any proposed solution has addressed the
battery failure risks,” the agency said.  Chicago-based Boeing is offering a battery redesign for the
Dreamliner to satisfy regulators’ safety concerns following its
grounding Jan. 16 as a result of two incidents in which lithium-
ion batteries smoldered and emitted smoke, people with knowledge
of the proposal said.  Boeing’s plan includes adding space and insulation between
the battery’s individual lithium-ion cells, said the people, who
weren’t authorized to discuss the matter and asked not to be
identified. The battery also will have a venting mechanism for
fumes and a case made with heat-resistant glass to contain
fires, the people said.  The company is developing kits so the new batteries can be
swapped in for the old units, and occupy the same space in the
planes, the people said. The new units also may have a system
that lets pilots monitor individual battery cells, they said.  Safety Standards  Any repairs would be subject to FAA approval, and the
agency isn’t expected to act immediately, the people said.  Boeing must show in tests and analysis that the fixes will
ensure that the batteries meet the FAA’s safety standards. No
schedule for those tests has been released.  The battery changes also would need the backing of U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, who has said the 787 won’t
fly again until the U.S. is “1,000 percent sure” it’s safe.  LaHood’s deputy, John Porcari, attended yesterday’s
meeting, according to the FAA statement.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  signaled on Feb. 21 that
it expects the process to take more time than Boeing’s goal of
getting the Dreamliner back into service in March. The airline
said it is removing the model from most of its flight schedule
through June 5. Chicago-based United is the only U.S. carrier
with 787s in its fleet.  The FAA grounded the Dreamliner following a Jan. 7 fire on
a Japan Airlines Co. 787 parked in  Boston  and a battery fault
that triggered an emergency landing in Japan by an  All Nippon
Airways Co. (9202)  plane.  Boeing  rose  0.9 percent to $76.66 at the close in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. That pared the
stock’s decline to 1.3 percent since Jan. 4, the last trading
day before the fire on the  Japan  Airlines plane.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  