-- Boston Snow Threat Lessens as Systems Away From Land
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-02-22T20:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/boston-snow-threat-lessens-as-systems-away-from-land.html
A storm threatening  Boston  with 3 to
6 inches (8 to 15 centimeters) of snow over the weekend isn’t
developing with the power forecasters first expected, said 
Frank Nocera, a  National Weather Service  meteorologist.  A low-pressure system moving north from  Florida  had been
expected to merge off the Atlantic coast with a Midwestern
storm, bringing snow, rain and high winds to  New England , Nocera
said. Forecasters now predict the systems will join farther out
to sea, giving the area a smaller storm to deal with.  “It’s not looking like a big storm, not like we saw two
weeks ago,” Nocera said by telephone from his office in
Taunton, Massachusetts. “The storm is trending weaker and
moving further offshore.”  New York City  will get mainly rain starting tonight into
tomorrow, said Dan Hoffman, a weather service meteorologist in
Upton,  New York .  “You could see some flakes at the beginning and at the
end, but nothing is going to stick,” Hoffman said. “It’s not a
major storm; it’s an inconvenience for the weekend.”  Two weeks ago, a blizzard swept through New England,
killing at least seven people and dropping 24.9 inches of snow
on Boston. The storm in the Midwest is winding down after
bringing more than a foot of snow to parts of the Great Plains
over the past two days, according to the weather service.  Less Snow  Because the new storm is expected to be less powerful and
may be farther out to sea than first predicted, the area of
 heavy snowfall  on land will be much narrower, Nocera said.  As much as 10 inches may fall from the central
 Massachusetts  city of Worcester into southern  New Hampshire ,
according to the weather service. Six to 8 inches are possible
in Boston’s western suburbs.  “Typically there is not much uncertainty this close to the
event,” Nocera said. “The rain-snow line is going to be very
close to the Boston area, and that makes it, for Boston, a tough
forecast.”  Nocera said snow will start falling in the Boston area late
tomorrow and continue through the next day.  A winter storm watch takes effect from Massachusetts
through southern New Hampshire and Maine tomorrow afternoon and
ends by midday the day after, according to the weather service.  Most of the snow will be the result of a storm that has
triggered flood watches and warnings from parts of  Louisiana  to
 South Carolina .  The system that brought 13.5 inches of snow to Hannibal,
 Missouri , contributed to 1,364 canceled flights across the U.S.
in the past two days, according to  FlightAware , a Houston-based
airline tracking company.  Kansas City International Airport was closed yesterday
because of the system. Delays of more than 90 minutes were
reported at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport, the  Federal
Aviation Administration  said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  