-- Bovespa Rises as Fibria Rallies With Global Commodities
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-02-22T21:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/bovespa-index-futures-rise-as-commodity-gain-boosts-export-view.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index snapped its
longest losing streak in nine months as exporters including pulp
producer Suzano Papel & Celulose SA rallied amid optimism the
global economy is poised to improve.  Poultry exporter BRF Brasil Foods SA rose after its board
nominated Abilio Diniz, an executive with decades of experience
in the industry, to be chairman. Paper maker Klabin SA rebounded
from a one-month low after its quarterly profit beat analysts’
estimates. Gafisa SA jumped the most since October, leading
homebuilders higher.  The Bovespa rose 1 percent to 56,697.06 at the close in Sao
Paulo, the first gain in eight days. The gauge has trailed most
major emerging-market stock benchmarks this year amid concern
 Brazil ’s accelerating inflation will sap an economic recovery
that has been stunted by the government’s interventionist
policies in industries including utilities and energy.  While Brazilian inflation, which quickened to a 6.2 percent
annual pace in mid-February, remains a concern, improving
prospects for the global economy may support a stock rebound
this year, said Henrique Kleine, the chief analyst at Magliano
SA brokerage.  This year “will probably be a better year for the world
economy, and as it becomes more clear, investors may start going
back to stocks,” Kleine said in a phone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “The outlook for the Bovespa is positive.”  The MSCI All-Country World index rose 0.7 percent as German
business confidence climbed more than forecast after the Ifo
institute in Munich said its business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, jumped to 107.4 from 104.3 in
January. That’s the biggest increase since July 2010 and the
fourth straight monthly gain. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted an advance to 104.9.  Brasil Foods, Klabin  Forty-eight stocks gained on the Bovespa today while 18
fell. The real was little changed at 1.9727 per  U.S. dollar .
Brazil’s swap rates rose after a report showed consumer prices
increased more than economists forecast in the first half of
February.  Brasil Foods  gained 5.1 percent to 43.61 reais. Naming
Diniz as chairman is “positive” for the company because of his
experience in the retail business, analysts at Banco Bradesco
SA’s brokerage unit including Ricardo Boiati wrote in a note to
clients. Diniz is currently the chairman at  Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar , the country’s biggest
retailer.  Klabin, Latin America’s biggest paper maker, rose 2.1
percent to 13.23 reais, rebounding from a one-month low. The
company posted adjusted net income of 146.5 million reais, above
the average analyst forecast of 126.4 million reais, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OGX, Suzano  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA fell 0.3 percent to
3.59 reais after climbing as much as 8.9 percent earlier.  Valor
Economico  reported that controlling shareholder  Eike Batista  is
in talks to sell a stake in the oil producer, without saying
where it got the information. An OGX press official in  Rio de
Janeiro  declined to comment.  Suzano surged 6.5 percent to 6.57 reais. Bigger rival
 Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3)  rose 4 percent to 22.34 reais. Gafisa jumped
8.4 percent to 4.24 reais, the biggest advance in the index.  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio , which shares control of the
world’s biggest sugar-cane processor, fell 0.5 percent to 45.74
reais after a union official said a strike by dock workers at
the port of Santos disrupted the loading of some ships.  The Bovespa has dropped 10 percent from this year’s high on
Jan. 3, while the  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,
 India  and  China  has declined 3.7 percent in the same period. The
Brazilian stock gauge  trades  at 11 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for the next four quarters, compared with 10.5 for
MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 9.09 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.45 billion reais this year
through Feb. 20, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  