-- Brasil Foods Gains as Diniz Nominated Chairman: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-02-22T16:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/brasil-foods-gains-as-diniz-nominated-chairman-sao-paulo-mover.html
BRF-Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) , the country’s
largest food maker, rose the most in six months after its board
nominated as its chairman Abilio Diniz, the chairman of Cia.
Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar.  Brasil Foods advanced 3.6 percent to 43 reais at 1:23 p.m.
in Sao Paulo after earlier rising 4.6 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Aug. 21. Pao de Acucar, Brazil’s largest
retailer, fell 1.7 percent to 95.68 reais. The benchmark Bovespa
index added 0.3 percent.  The board of Brasil Foods appointed the new members
yesterday and will submit their names to a vote at a
shareholders’ meeting on April 9.  “This is positive news for Brasil Foods, as Mr. Diniz is
extremely experienced in the retail sector,” Ricardo Boiati,
Alan Cardoso and Pedro Bueno, analysts at  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ’s
brokerage unit, wrote in a note to clients published today. They
have a recommendation on the stock equivalent to a buy, with a
12-month target price of 45.10 reais.  While Pao de Acucar is one of Brasil Foods’s largest
customers, the two companies produce some competing products.  Saint-Etienne, France-based  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) ,
which gained control of Pao de Acucar last year, asked Diniz
this week to step down as chairman, citing an “obvious conflict
of interest” that Diniz, 76, denied.  “The shareholders’ agreement states that I am entitled to
the lifetime post of chairman,” Diniz said in a statement.  Brasil Foods has gained 1.9 percent this year while the
Bovespa has slumped 7.6 percent during the same period. Pao de
Acucar has gained 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  