-- Brazil Dockers Halt Cargos From Cargill Soy to Cosan Sugar
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-02-22T17:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/brazil-dockers-halt-cargos-from-cargill-soybeans-to-cosan-sugar.html
Dock workers in  Brazil  held up
loading at Latin America’s biggest port earlier today in a
protest over  job security  as they consider a strike that would
disrupt shipments of everything from sugar to soybeans and corn.  Protests began at Cargill Inc. and Cosan SA Industria &
Comercio terminals in the Port of Santos as part of a six-hour
stoppage in six states, said Miguel Torres, the vice-president
of labor union Forca Sindical. Workers aim to reach an accord
with the government to secure union jobs in a proposed port-
investment bill by March 15 or may go on strike, union leader
Paulo Pereira da Silva told reporters in Brasilia today after a
meeting with Ports Minister Leonidas Cristino.  Brazil is the world’s largest exporter of coffee, sugar and
soybeans, and supplies are now arriving from record harvests.
With chronic truck shortages, clogged roads and scarce railroad
capacity, the government’s port bill seeks to lure investment at
ports that may hire non-union workers. Soybean prices have
rallied 4.8 percent this week in  Chicago , the most since August,
boosting costs for importers including  China , the largest buyer
of farm commodities.  “This bill is changing the rules of the game and will make
life worse for dock workers,” said Torres, whose union
represents 36,009 port workers, or 80 percent of Brazil’s total.  Shipping Delays  About 7 million metric tons of soybean deliveries are being
held up at Brazilian ports, boosting prices, Kuok Khoon Hong,
the chief executive officer of cooking-oil supplier  Wilmar
International Ltd. (WIL) , said today in an interview in  Singapore .
Crushers in China boosted purchases from the U.S. this week on
concern that a strike in Brazil will disrupt shipping,
researcher Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. said today.  Soybean futures for May delivery rose 0.3 percent to
$14.745 a bushel at 10:51 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade,
after reaching a two-week high of $14.97. Arabica-coffee and
orange-juice futures advanced for a third day in  New York .  Brazil ports have a record 192 ships waiting to load 10.8
million metric tons of soybeans, corn, wheat and rice, compared
with 90 ships waiting to load 4.1 million tons a year earlier,
researcher SA Commodities said in a report distributed in Santos
today.  Brazil’s government is weighing changes in its proposed
regulatory framework for ports to avert a strike that could hurt
trade in  Latin America ’s largest economy, Minister Cristino said
in an interview in Brasilia yesterday.  New Meeting  In a meeting with the government today, union leaders
agreed to cancel a second six-hour stoppage scheduled for Feb.
26 and a new meeting was slated for March 1, Cristino told
reporters after the talks in Brasilia.  “We’re not interested in changing the essence of the
measure on ports because it will boost cargo shipments with
lower costs,” Cristino said.  Justice Maria Cristina Peduzzi, vice-president of Brazil’s
Superior Labor Tribunal, known as TST, ordered the workers to
refrain from going on strike and may fine the union 200,000
reais ($101,700) if the go ahead with the stoppage, according to
the court’s website.  Expiring terminal concessions held by Cargill, Cosan,
 Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and Libra Terminais SA will probably
be renewed if the companies boost investments, he said.  Cargill is the U.S.’s biggest agricultural company. Cosan
runs the world’s biggest sugar-cane processor in a joint venture
with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , and ADM is the world’s largest corn
processor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  