-- Brazil’s Prices Rise More Than Expected for Eighth Month
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-02-22T13:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/brazil-s-prices-rise-more-than-expected-for-eighth-month-1-.html
Brazil ’s  inflation  in mid-February
exceeded economists’ forecasts for the eighth consecutive
month, adding pressure on the central bank to raise  interest
rates . Swap rates rose.  Prices as measured by the IPCA-15  price index  rose 0.68
percent from Jan. 16 through Feb. 14, the national statistics
agency said today. The median  estimate  from 38 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a 0.62 percent increase. Annual inflation
accelerated to 6.18 percent from 6.02 percent the previous
month.  Inflation has exceeded the central bank’s 4.5 percent
target for more than two years as Dilma Rousseff’s government
spurred demand by extending tax breaks for  consumer goods  and
pressuring banks to lower lending rates. With inflation running
faster than Chile, Peru, Colombia and Mexico, the bank’s ability
to keep its benchmark  lending rate  at a record low 7.25 percent
to boost growth is being put to the test.  “Today’s number shows inflation is very worrisome, it
remained rather high even with the reduction in electricity
rates,”  Newton Rosa , chief economist at SulAmerica
Investimentos, said by telephone from  Sao Paulo . “Inflation is
distancing itself more and more from the center of the target
and without a doubt could prompt the central bank to act.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 7.73 percent at 9:15 a.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.3 percent to 1.9664 per  U.S. dollar .  ’Showing Resistance’  “It is unrealistic to imagine that inflation will converge
to 4.5 percent in 2013,” central bank director Carlos Hamilton
told reporters yesterday in  Belo Horizonte . “Inflation is
showing resistance in the first half and will tend to fall in
the second half.”  The central bank is signaling a “conditional commitment”
to raise rates if inflation does not fall in the second half of
the year as it expects, Tony Volpon, head of emerging market
research for the Americas at Nomura Securities International
Inc., wrote in a note on Feb. 19  Price increases through mid-February were led by education,
which rose 5.5 percent due to rising tuition at the beginning of
the school year. Food and beverage prices jumped 1.7 percent.  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded 1 percent last
year, the central bank estimates, down from 2.7 percent in 2011
and 7.5 percent in 2012. Economists in the most recent central
bank survey reduced their inflation outlook for this year, to
5.7 percent, after six straight weeks of raising their
forecasts. The analysts forecast the economy will grow 3.08
percent this year and 3.65 percent in 2014.  ’Managed Prices’  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday that
inflation is under control. The government’s reduction of power
rates for consumers that came into effect in January lowered
electricity costs 13.5 percent in the month through mid-February
and provided the largest downward pressure on inflation, 0.45
percentage points, the statistics agency said.  “You can make a lot of adjustments in managed prices like
gasoline prices and electricity rates, but at the end of the day
what matters is the rate of service inflation,”   Pedro Tuesta ,
chief economist at 4Cast Inc., said by telephone from
Washington.  Tuesta estimates services inflation is running at 8.5
percent to 9 percent due to demand created by a strong labor
market and real wage increases. Unemployment fell to a record
4.6 percent in December.  Brazil isn’t lacking in demand and now must address its
supply-side issues, policies for which “take longer to bear
fruit,” central bank president Alexandre Tombini said yesterday
in Urbana,  Illinois .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  