-- Brazil Creates in January Half the Jobs Analysts Estimated
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-02-22T18:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/brazil-creates-in-january-half-the-jobs-analysts-estimated-1-.html
Brazil’s economy in January created
about half the number of jobs that economists had forecast amid
contracting industrial production and faltering growth.  Brazil’s economy created 28,900 government-registered jobs
in January, the Labor Ministry said today in Brasilia.
Economists forecast the creation of 50,000 jobs, according to
the median estimate from 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Last
year in January, 118,895 posts were created.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has worked to
reverse two years of declining growth and tame inflation that
has remained above the midpoint of the central bank’s target for
30 months. The world’s second-biggest emerging market grew 1
percent last year, the slowest pace in three years, according to
the central bank. The economy will grow grow between 3 percent
and 4 percent this year, according to Finance Minister  Guido Mantega .  “Companies are reducing new hirings due to their
frustration about the level of economic activity,” Carlos Kawall, the chief economist at Banco J. Safra SA,  said in a
telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “There is a trend showing a
fall in formal  job creation .”  The Labor Ministry forecasts that Brazil will generate 1.7
million jobs this year, up from 1.3 million last year.  Government-registered job creation number is a balance of
posts created minus job eliminated. Registered jobs, so-called
formal work, assure employees a range of benefits such as
 unemployment insurance , bonuses and retirement payments by the
government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  