-- Brevan Howard Alumnus Edwards to Start Asia Stock Hedge Fund
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2013-02-22T06:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/brevan-howard-alumnus-edwards-to-start-asian-stock-hedge-fund.html
Tristan Edwards, a former trader at
Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, has raised seed investment
for a hedge fund in  Singapore  that will invest in Asian stocks
based on a short-term trading strategy.  Mosaic Asset Management Pte will start running the strategy
on March 1 with about $100 million, part of which is from a
joint venture of Woori Absolute Partners and NewAlpha Asset
Management to invest in startup hedge funds, said Edward Moon,
chief investment officer of Woori Absolute.  Mosaic is setting up after hedge-fund closures in  Asia 
exceeded starts in all but one quarter last year as assets go to
larger, well-established managers, according to Eurekahedge Pte.
The average size at the start for Asian hedge funds in 2012 was
$70 million, Eurekahedge said.  “Being able to leverage the experience of Woori and
NewAlpha is a tremendous asset, particularly in the early stage
of our fund’s growth,” Edwards said in an e-mail.  Mosaic is the first investment for Woori Absolute, a
Singapore-based alternative investment platform of  South Korea ’s
Woori Investment & Securities, and  NewAlpha , a Paris-based
company specializing in seeding emerging managers. The venture
was established in November to meet growing demand to allocate
money to Asian funds.  The partnership currently has $50 million in committed
capital and plans to put a total of $200 million into Asian
startups, Moon said.  Fundraising Struggle  The Mosaic Trading Fund will employ a so-called market
neutral strategy to profit from both rising and falling prices
in Asia’s most liquid stock markets, Moon said.  “After more than two years of difficult trading conditions
in Asia, we are seeing stock correlations coming down, and
liquidity improving,” Edwards said in the e-mail. “This lends
itself well to strategies that focus on stock picking.”  Mosaic is in the process of receiving an allocation from a
North American institutional investor through a managed account,
Woori and NewAlpha said in an e-mailed statement, without naming
the investor.  The Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index gained 9.8 percent
in 2012, the best performance since 2009, according to figures
from the Singapore-based data provider. Total assets under
management reached $127.4 billion, about 28 percent below the
level in 2007, before the global financial crisis, according to
Eurekahedge.  Quality Managers  Edwards spent three years in  London  at Brevan Howard,
Europe’s second-largest hedge fund, where he last served as the
head of execution desk before joining Trafalgar Capital as a
 fund manager  managing the Asian equity portfolio from 2007 to
2010. Prior to that, he worked at Goldman Sachs Asset Management
in  Melbourne  as an equity analyst and a trader.  He is joined by Chief Operating Officer Greg Laughlin, who
used to be a director in the prime services business at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said Moon.  “The quality of managers is rising in Asia,” said Moon in
an interview in Singapore yesterday. “It’s a great time to
identify these managers and select some of the best-of-breeds.”  Mosaic plans to hire more traders to be based in the region
and cover different countries as assets increase, Moon said.
Woori and NewAlpha, which screened more than 160 funds for their
first investment over the past year, will provide assistance
with fundraising in  Europe  as well as in Asia, NewAlpha’s Chief
Executive Officer Antoine Rolland said in the same interview.  “There aren’t many competitors in the region for these
kind of strategy that is trading oriented,” said Rolland,
adding that appetite to invest in Asia is growing in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 