-- Buying Opportunity Seen as History Shows March Loss: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-02-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/buying-opportunity-seen-as-history-shows-march-loss-muni-credit.html
Yields in the $3.7 trillion U.S.
municipal-bond market are the highest in six months and may rise
further in March -- as they have in 14 of the last 20 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors next month will be looking to dispose of munis to
raise cash for tax payments before the April 15 deadline even as
states and localities boost bond sales to  $8.7 billion  over the
next month, Bloomberg data show. That’s 21 percent above their
three-month average.  March selling may push tax-free yields up by as much as
0.15 percentage point, said Michael Pietronico, who manages $875
million of munis as chief executive officer of Miller Tabak
Asset Management in New York. That may create a buying
opportunity, he said, with Bloomberg data going back to 1993
showing there’s a 50 percent chance of interest rates falling
back in April.  “March is the best month to put cash to work,” Pietronico
said in a telephone interview. “You want to be throwing money
at municipal bonds because yields generally move higher” before
falling again “immediately after that.”  Issuers from  California  to Maryland are set to borrow next
month as investors are looking for higher yields after interest
rates on 20-year general-obligations in January fell close to
their  lowest levels  in 47 years, according to a Bond Buyer
index. Total returns for tax-exempt securities in March were
negative 14 times during the past two decades, worse than U.S.
Treasuries and stocks, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data.  Stock Run  Next month, bondholders may try to capture past gains on
their tax-exempt holdings while some will sell tax-exempt assets
and shift the proceeds into the stock market, “which has been
on quite a run over the last couple of months,” said Neil Klein, who helps oversee $1.2 billion of fixed income at Carret
Asset Management in New York.  While the Standard & Poor’s 500 index fell 0.6 percent to
 1,502.42 (SPX)  yesterday, it’s near the highest level since October
2007, Bloomberg data show.  “What we’re expecting for March is a minor rotation from
bonds to cash or from bonds to equities,” Klein said. “There
will be some degree of selling pressure as people look to
capture gains or raise cash to pay taxes.”  The anticipated increase in muni sales will surpass the
amount of payments that investors receive from principal and
interest on their tax-exempt investments that they need to
reinvest, Pietronico said.  Spending Cuts  “The uptick that we will get will outnumber the
redemptions and coupon interest that will hit for the month,”
Pietronico said.  While investors may be poised to sell, the impact may be
muted by the effect of about $1.2 trillion in across-the-board
budget cuts over nine years that are set to begin March 1 unless
President  Barack Obama  and Congress reduce expenses and raise
revenue.  If lawmakers are unable to craft a plan by the deadline,
yields on Treasuries and tax-exempt securities would fall in
anticipation that the spending cuts will slow the U.S. economy,
pushing investors toward safer assets, Pietronico said. That
would help moderate any anticipated selloff next month, he said.  “That could be very much a positive for U.S. Treasury
prices,” Pietronico said. “So there’s a chance that if
Treasuries rally if the spending cuts are enacted, that
municipals can hold their ground” in March.  Yields Rise  Municipal-bond interest rates have increased this year,
along with those on U.S. Treasuries, amid signs that the economy
is improving. Yields on benchmark tax-exempts maturing in 10
years rose about 0.19 percentage point in 2013 to a six-month
high of  1.88 percent  yesterday, Bloomberg data show.  In March, munis have lost value 14 times from 1993 to 2012,
compared with 12 for Treasuries and eight for the S&P 500, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data show.  ‘Moderate Loss’  For tax-exempt debt next month, “the likelihood is that it
will be a moderate loss,” Pietronico said.  Following are pending sales:  MARYLAND plans to borrow $898 million of tax-exempt debt
through competitive bid as soon as March 6, according to
Bloomberg data. Moody’s Investors Service rates the state AAA,
its highest grade. (Added Feb. 22)  CALIFORNIA’S VENTURA COUNTY PUBLIC FINANCING AUTHORITY is
set to issue $300 million of tax-exempt lease revenue bonds as
soon as next week, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will help
finance a replacement wing at the Ventura County Medical Center
and pay down short-term debt, according to bond documents.
Standard & Poor’s rates the sale AA, third-highest. (Added Feb.
22)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  