-- HTC to Fix Mobile Device Security Flaws in FTC Settlement
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-02-22T18:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/htc-to-fix-mobile-device-security-flaws-in-u-s-fcc-settlement.html
HTC America Inc. must develop and
release software patches to fix vulnerabilities found in
millions of smartphones and tablet computers under a settlement
announced today with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.  The vulnerabilities placed sensitive information about
millions of consumers at risk and potentially permitted
malicious applications to send text messages, record audio and
install additional malware without a user’s knowledge or
consent, according to an FTC news  release .  Malware placed on devices could be used to record and
transmit information entered into devices, including financial
account data and calendar entries, or get access to a user’s
location, the commission said.  “We have addressed the identified security vulnerabilities
on the majority of devices in the U.S.,” HTC said in an e-
mailed statement. “We’re working to roll out the remaining
software updates now and recommend customers download them once
available.”  HTC America is the U.S. unit of  HTC Corp. (2498) , a Taoyuan,
Taiwan-based handset maker that was the top maker of smartphones
in the U.S. in the third quarter of 2011 before it lost market
share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co. It dropped off
the list of the world’s five biggest smartphone vendors in the
three months ended December.  The settlement requires HTC America to establish a
comprehensive security program and undergo independent security
assessments every other year for the next 20 years. HTC America
and its partners are in the process of deploying the security
patches required by the settlement, the FTC said.  It also prohibits the company from making false or
misleading statements about consumer data security and privacy
on HTC devices, according to the FTC release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  