-- California Plans $2.7 Billion Issue as Retiree Costs Slow
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-02-22T03:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/california-plans-2-7-billion-issue-as-retiree-costs-slow.html
California  is set to borrow $2.7
billion from the  bond market  after its  credit rating  was raised,
as retiree health-care costs grew less than anticipated.  The most populous U.S. state will sell $2.2 billion of tax-
exempt general-obligation bonds and $310 million in debt subject
to federal taxes, Treasurer Bill Lockyer said yesterday.  California’s rating was raised for the first time since
2006 by  Standard & Poor’s  in January. S&P’s one-step boost to A,
sixth-highest, from A- followed tax increases championed by
Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  and spending reductions that
bolstered the state’s fiscal outlook.  In addition to the new issue, California will remarket $228
million of Build America Bonds March 13, according to Lockyer.
The Build America Bond program gave states and cities a 35
percent federal subsidy on interest as part of an economic
stimulus plan. California and its local governments sold more
than $39 billion of the debt.  Controller John Chiang said yesterday that the amount
California would owe to pay for health and dental care of
retired state workers over the next 30 years rose $1.7 billion
since June 2011 to $63.8 billion.  The liability increase was less than expected because
retirees submitted fewer and less-expensive claims, and because
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , which
manages health insurance for state workers, took steps to lower
costs, Chiang said.  Pensions Pre-Funded  California’s employee pensions are pre-funded, allowing
investment returns to reduce long-term liabilities. The state
finances retiree health benefits as they come due. The pension
plans could save $21.8 billion to $42 billion over 30 years if
California began to put aside money in a trust for the future
liability, Chiang said.  “The current pay-as-we-go model of funding retiree health
benefits is short-sighted and a recipe for undermining the
fiscal health of future generations,” Chiang said. “Today’s
challenge won’t necessarily become tomorrow’s crisis if
policymakers can muster the fiscal discipline to invest now so
that we can pay tens of billions of dollars less later.”  The state will take orders for its new  bond issue  from
individual investors March 12 and March 13. The taxable bonds
will be priced March 13 and the tax-exempt debt will be priced
March 14, said  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for the treasurer.  JPMorgan Securities and Goldman Sachs & Co. will lead the
sale, Dresslar said in a statement.  California tax-exempt bonds due in September 2042 traded
yesterday with an average yield of 3.3 percent, or about 0.3
percentage point above  benchmark  municipal debt, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That spread has narrowed by more than half
since the bonds priced in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  