-- California Democrats Lose Veto-Proof Edge in State Senate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-02-22T21:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/california-democrats-lose-veto-proof-edge-in-state-senate.html
California  Democrats lost their
veto-proof two-thirds control over the state legislature after
the surprise resignation of a senator from the oil-producing
Central Valley region to take a job with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   With two other Senate seats already vacant, the resignation
of Senator Michael Rubio drops the Democrats down to 26 in the
chamber, one vote short of their recently gained supermajority.
Party leaders don’t anticipate losing it for long, though.  Rubio, whose Bakersfield-area district is about 110 miles
(180 kilometers) west of  Los Angeles  and a four-hour drive from
Sacramento, said he was quitting to have more family time and to
join Chevron as manager of California government affairs. Kern
County, which includes Bakersfield, is the state’s top oil-
producing county. While Republicans outnumber Democrats there,
Rubio won his seat with almost 61 percent of the vote in 2010.  “My wife and I have been blessed with two beautiful
daughters, from whom we have learned a great deal,” Rubio, 35,
said in a statement on his website. “Our youngest child, who
has special needs, has given me great perspective as to life’s
priorities and our eldest has reminded me that the most critical
decisions are made at home and not under the Capitol dome.”  Rubio, of Shafter, won a Senate seat after serving as a
Kern County supervisor. Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, has
two weeks to call a special election to replace Rubio.  Supermajority Gained  In the November elections, California’s Democrats gained
enough seats in both chambers of the legislature to give them
the two-thirds control needed to pass tax increases and override
Brown’s vetoes, without any Republican support.  Lawmakers hadn’t used that power before Rubio stepped down,
though it had some Democrats dusting off their most-ambitious
ideas, previously impossible to pursue because of firm
Republican barriers. Among those objectives were altering
Proposition 13, the 1978 initiative that capped property-levy
increases and spurred a national anti-tax revolt.  The Democrats have expected to lose their two-thirds
control at least temporarily as certain lawmakers from both
chambers seek other offices. Two senators left this year when
they were elected to Congress. Democrats have said they expect
to regain their supermajority power because the districts Rubio
and the two others represented are considered safe for their
party’s candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 