-- California Carbon Permits Sell Above Expected Clearing Price
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-02-22T23:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/california-sells-carbon-allowances-for-13-62-each-in-auction.html
California, the second-largest
carbon-polluting state in the U.S. behind  Texas , sold out of
greenhouse-gas allowances put up for auction this week at $13.62
each, more than a dollar above analysts’ expectations.  Units of  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  were
among the companies qualified to buy permits in the Feb. 19
auction, a report posted on the state Air Resources Board’s
 website  shows. Bids ranged from $10.71 to $50.01 per allowance,
each permitting the release of one metric ton of carbon. The
sale was expected to clear at $12.30 a ton, according to a
Bloomberg New Energy Finance analysis.  “It looks clearly like a very healthy auction result, at
least on the surface,” Lenny Hochschild, head of global carbon
trading for broker Evolution Markets in  White Plains , New York,
said by telephone.  California’s carbon cap-and-trade system is the largest of
its kind in the U.S. and the second-biggest carbon market in the
world behind the European Union’s. The state, which cites its
program as an example for the rest of the world to follow, plans
to use it and other emissions-reduction measures to cut
greenhouse-gas pollution to 1990 levels by 2020.  ‘Viable’ Market  The auction results demonstrate “a strong, viable carbon
market,” Derek Walker, associate vice president of U.S. climate
and energy for the New York-based  Environmental Defense Fund ,
said in an e-mailed statement.  “ California  has been a pioneer for thinking big and
putting bold policy into action and today is another glowing
example of that leadership,” Walker said.  The state sold all 12.9 million allowances it offered on
Feb. 19 to be used for compliance this year. It also put up for
sale 9.56 million permits to be used in 2016. Of those advance
allowances, 4.44 million were bought by companies at $10.71
each, the lowest price allowed by the program.  In these auctions, companies submit confidential bids
electronically for a specific number of allowances at specific
prices. The highest bidder is awarded permits first, then the
second and so on until the all of the permits for sale have been
called for. Then all bidders pay the price of the lowest winning
offer.  Futures Gain  Futures based on California carbon allowances for 2013
jumped 80 cents, or 5.7 percent, to $14.90 a ton, data compiled
by the Atlanta-based  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE)  show. A
total of 220 contracts, each representing 1,000 permits, were
traded, the exchange said.  Futures rose to $15 a ton after the state posted the
auction results, up from $14.50 before the release, Hochschild
said from San Francisco. Almost 80 percent of today’s trades
occurred after the results were released at 3 p.m. New York
time, he said.  In the Feb. 19 auction, companies regulated under the
state’s cap-and-trade program bought 88 percent of the 2013
permits, which can be used to cover emissions this year. The air
board received 2.47 bids for every allowance for sale, the
agency’s report shows.  “Obviously, oversubscription of 2.47 times is great,”
Dusty Granet, a broker at BGC Environmental Brokerage Services
LP in  New York , said by telephone. “People are very confident
right now. There’s just a positive sentiment.”  The average bid for an allowance was $14.71 a ton, and the
median was $12.56, the state air board said.  November Auction  The state sold allowances at its first auction on Nov. 14
at $10.09 a ton, just above the $10 floor price.  The most recent auction results suggest that allowances
will “continue to trade at levels well above the auction floor
despite the market being fundamentally overallocated,” Thomas Marcello, a Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst in New York,
said by e-mail. Companies looking to hedge against compliance
costs are supporting this “price premium,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  