-- Canada Dollar Weakens to 8-Month Low as Sales, Inflation Fall
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-02-22T22:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/canada-dollar-slides-to-weakest-since-july-as-sales-prices-drop.html
Canada ’s dollar reached the weakest
level in almost eight months versus its U.S. counterpart as
retail sales dropped in December the most since 2010 and the
inflation rate reached its lowest in more than three years.  The currency, called the loonie for the image of the bird
on the C$1 coin, fell versus most major peers. It sank for a
sixth day versus the U.S. dollar in the longest losing streak
since August 2011 amid bets the Bank of Canada may lower
interest rates before raising them. The loonie lost earlier this
week as commodities slid amid ebbing risk appetite.  “It’s a hugely disappointing number at a sensitive time of
year for retailers,” Adam Button, a Montreal-based currency
analyst at Forexlive.com, said by phone from New York of the
retail data. “The market was soft in the Canadian dollar coming
into this, and this number is certainly going to keep the
momentum going.”  The loonie depreciated 0.3 percent to C$1.0215 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched C$1.0256, the weakest
level since June 29, and lost 1.5 percent on the week. One
Canadian dollar purchases 97.90 U.S. cents.  Futures traders decreased to the lowest level since August
their bets that the Canadian dollar will gain against the U.S.
dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  Net Longs  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
19,379 on Feb. 19, compared with net longs of 26,565 a week
earlier. They reached 68,668 Jan. 18, the most in 2013.  Canada’s currency pared losses as stronger German business
confidence overshadowed a forecast by the European Commission
that the euro area’s economy will shrink in 2013 for a second
year. The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate
index climbed to 107.4 in February, a 10-month high. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index gained 0.9 percent in its first
advance in three days.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the greenback
versus the Canadian dollar reached 7.18 percent, the most since
Oct. 1, before slipping to 6.97. Implied volatility signals the
expected pace of currency swings and is quoted by traders to set
option prices. The five-year average is 11.6 percent.  Bonds Gain  Canada’s government bonds rose, pushing yields on the
benchmark 10-year debt down four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.94 percent. The price of the 2.75 percent
securities due in June 2022 increased 34 cents to C$106.82.  The loonie lost for a third week versus the greenback as
 retail sales  slid 2.1 percent in December to C$38.6 billion
($37.9 billion), following a revised 0.3 percent gain in
November, Statistics Canada data showed today. That brought the
value of retailer receipts to the lowest since September 2011.
The monthly decline was the biggest since April 2010. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a 0.3 percent drop.  Canada’s  consumer-price  index rose 0.5 percent in January
from a year earlier, the lowest gain since October 2009,
Statistics Canada said today from Ottawa. Economists forecast a
0.6 percent rise. The gauge increased 0.8 percent in December.  “Inflation is low and diminishing,” said Button of
Forexlive.com. “It’s growing more and more likely the Bank of
Canada will shift to a neutral bias rather than a hawkish one.”  Rate Bets  Policy makers have held the benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent since September 2010 to support the economy. Trading in
overnight index swaps today showed investors priced in six basis
points of easing by the central bank by its December meeting,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed. A week ago, they had priced
in nine basis points of tightening.  Central-bank Governor Mark Carney reiterated to lawmakers
last week in Ottawa a rate boost is less urgent than previously
anticipated because the weaker-than-expected economy is keeping
inflation below the bank’s 2 percent target. Policy makers said
in January an increase may still be needed over time.  Today’s reports followed data this month showing Canadian
employment unexpectedly fell in January for the first time in
six months and manufacturing sales dropped in December.  Canada’s  gross domestic product  rose 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter after a 0.6 percent increase from July through
September, economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast before
Statistics Canada reports the data March 1. The economy grew 5.8
percent in the third quarter of 2011.  ‘Sharp Retreat’  “We’re at the point where the good economic stories that
were evident earlier are fading,” David Watt, chief economist
at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, said by phone from
Toronto. “There’s a rather sharp retreat after the upswing in
risk sentiment we’ve had for a while.”  The U.S. currency climbed against the Canadian dollar this
week as stocks and commodities slid after minutes of the Federal
Reserve’s last meeting showed several officials said the central
bank should be ready to vary the pace of its monetary stimulus.
The European Commission said today the 17-nation euro region’s
economy will fall 0.3 percent this year, versus a November
prediction of 0.1 percent growth.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose 0.1
percent today, paring its third weekly loss to 2.6 percent.
Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose 0.5 percent,
trimming its weekly gain to 3.3 percent on the week, to $93.26 a
barrel in New York. Raw materials including oil account for
about half of Canada’s export revenue.  Canada’s dollar may have weakened too much, too fast, and
be ready to strengthen, a technical measure indicated. The
currency’s 14-day relative-strength index against the U.S.
dollar fell to 24, its third day below the 30 level some traders
see as a sign an asset may be about to reverse direction.  The loonie has fallen 1.3 percent this year among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar has gained 1.9
percent, and the euro has appreciated 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  