-- Canada’s Economy Struggles as Inflation and Sales Slow
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-02-22T16:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/canada-s-inflation-falls-in-january-to-lowest-since-2009.html
Canada ’s  inflation rate  fell in
January to its lowest since 2009 and retail sales plunged in
December, adding to evidence the country’s economy is struggling
to accelerate from its slowest pace since the 2009 recession.  Consumer prices rose 0.5 percent in January from a year
earlier, the least since October 2009,  Statistics Canada  said
today from Ottawa. Retailers in December  recorded  a 2.1 percent
drop in sales, the biggest decline in almost three years, the
agency said separately.  The data suggest Canada’s economy is growing at the weakest
pace since 2009 as households and businesses pare spending and
the nation’s exporters struggle to sell goods abroad.  Bank of
Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  said last month an increase to his 1
percent policy  interest rate  has become “less imminent”
because the weaker-than-expected economy is keeping inflation
below the 2 percent target.  “All in all, it’s two negative reports that will likely
weigh on expectations of the Bank of Canada’s ability to raise
rates,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS) , by telephone from Toronto.  Canada’s dollar weakened to the lowest since June,
depreciating as much as 0.7 percent to C$1.0256 versus its U.S.
counterpart. It traded at C$1.0237 at 11:19 a.m. in Toronto.
 Government bonds  rose, pulling the yield on benchmark 2-year
debt three basis points lower to 1.08 percent.  Pared Forecasts  The central bank last month pared its forecast for 2013
economic growth to 2 percent from an October prediction of 2.3
percent, and said the economy won’t reach full output until the
second half of 2014.  Today’s retail report is the last major piece of data
before Statistics Canada releases fourth-quarter growth figures
on March 1. The Bank of Canada  projected  output increased by a 1
percent annualized pace in the fourth quarter, up from the 0.6
percent pace recorded in the third quarter, yielding the slowest
six-month performance since 2009.  The central bank’s projections may be optimistic. Royal
Bank of Canada, Scotiabank, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
and Bank of Montreal published reports today forecasting fourth-
quarter growth below the central bank’s estimate.  “Growth in the consumer sector appears to have disappeared
in the fourth-quarter in advance of next Friday’s GDP report,”
 Derek Holt  and Dov Zigler, economists at Scotiabank in Toronto,
wrote in a note to clients.  Larger Decline  The  value  of retailer receipts fell in December to the
lowest since September 2011, with the decline surpassing the 0.3
percent drop  forecast  by economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Automobile and parts sales fell 6.4 percent to C$8.54
billion, the agency said. Purchases at retailers excluding  car
dealerships  fell 0.9 percent. On that basis, economists surveyed
by Bloomberg forecast 0.2 percent growth.  Seven of the 11 retail  categories  tracked by Statistics
Canada recorded declines in December, representing 58 percent of
total retail trade. Electronics and appliance store retailers
reported a 12.1 percent drop in sales. Department stores,
sporting goods retailers and home furnishing outlets also posted
declines.  Today’s reports follow other economic data releases this
month that trailed median forecasts. That includes the lowest
level of housing starts in January since 2009, an unexpected
decline in employment the same month and faster-than-projected
drops in wholesale sales and manufacturing shipments. The
Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for Canada has fallen to its
lowest since August.  Weaker Inflation  Inflation was also weaker than expected. Economists
predicted prices to rise 0.6 percent in January from a year
earlier. The central bank projected the  consumer price index 
would increase by an average 0.9 percent in the first quarter of
this year.  Food inflation slowed to 1.1 percent in January, following
an advance of 1.5 percent in December, the agency said. Costs
for transportation, which include gasoline, fell 0.5 percent
over the 12-month period, after increasing 0.5 percent in
December. Car prices fell 0.8 percent in January from a year
earlier. Canadians paid 1.6 percent less for clothing last month
than a year earlier, the agency said.  On a  monthly basis , prices rose 0.1 percent in January,
slower than the 0.2 percent economists predicted. On a
seasonally adjusted basis, consumer prices fell 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  