-- TCF Financial Most Likely Regional Bank Seller, Deutsche Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-02-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/tcf-financial-most-likely-regional-bank-seller-deutsche-says.html
BankUnited Inc. (BKU) ,  Comerica Inc. (CMA) ,  TCF
Financial Corp. (TCBI) ,  First Republic Bank  and Texas Capital
Bancshares Inc. are the most likely regional lenders to put
themselves up for sale based partially on how much their chief
executive officers stand to make from a deal, a report found.  The CEO would get 9.9 times current compensation at First
Republic in  San Francisco , 7.3 times at Comerica and 5.1 times
at Texas Capital, both based in Dallas, according to a  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)   report  released Feb. 21.  Deutsche Bank analysts led by  Matt O’Connor  said they wrote
the report “with investors wondering when bank M&A activity
will pick up.”  Regional banks are under pressure as new regulations and
capital requirements squeeze earnings, analysts including
Christopher McGratty of KBW Inc. have said, raising the
possibility of a wave of mergers. Conditions are in place for a
rebound in deal activity, Ralph Schlosstein, CEO of  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR) , said Feb. 21 in an interview on Bloomberg
Television.  Even with a payout of only 1.1 times the CEO’s salary, TCF
Financial is the regional lender most likely to be sold this
year due to “uncertainty over CEO succession and a net interest
margin that is likely to be more pressured than peers starting
in 1-2 years,” O’Connor said.  ‘Happy’ Seller  TFC Financial CEO William Cooper, 69, has said he would
sell the Wayzata, Minnesota-based firm if the deal was in the
best interest of shareholders. Cooper stands to make $9.6
million from a sale, according to the report, which was based on
2011 data.  “Somebody comes along and offers a great deal though, we
would be happy to sell the bank,” Cooper said on a Jan. 30
conference call. “That’s always been our philosophy and
continues to be.”  TCF Financial, with 430 branch offices and $18.2 billion in
assets,  reported last month  that fourth-quarter profit increased
43 percent to $23.6 million from a year earlier. Net interest
margin, the difference between what a bank pays for deposits and
charges for loans, climbed 87 basis points to 4.65 percent, the
company said.  “Mr. Cooper has a contract through 2015 and he certainly
expects to fulfill that,” Jason Korstange, a spokesman for TCF
Financial, said in response to the report. “A lot of things can
happen in two years.”  ‘Greater Activity’  Greg Berardi, an outside spokesman for First Republic,
declined to comment on the report, as did BankUnited’s Mary Harris and Texas Capital’s Heather Worley. A spokesman for
Comerica didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and phone call
requesting comment.  Aside from TCF Financial, regional bank consolidation may
take a few years, O’Connor said in the report.  “We expect greater sale activity in the medium and longer-
term,” O’Connor said. “This reflects likely further stock
price appreciation and earnings power” as the economy improves,
he said.  BankUnited CEO John Kanas, 66, stands to make $10.4
million, or 4.3 times his 2011 compensation package, if the
 Miami Lakes , Florida-based lender is sold, according to the
report. The bank decided to remain independent last year after
putting itself up for sale and failing to get an offer that met
the board’s expectations.  Ralph Babb, 64, CEO of Comerica, would make $51.3 million,
according to the report, while  George Jones , head of Texas
Capital Bancshares, would collect $7.3 million, or 5.1 times his
compensation in 2011. James H. Herbert, CEO of First Republic,
would make $36.2 million if his bank was sold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  