-- CFPB-Autos, Ranking Assets, Structured Notes: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-22T13:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/cfpb-autos-ranking-assets-structured-notes-compliance.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau has told at least four banks that it may sue
them over vehicle loans and interest-rate markups by auto
dealers that appear discriminatory, according to three people
briefed on the matter.  The banks received letters from the CFPB last week giving
them 15 days to provide an explanation of the practice, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plans aren’t
public. The letters indicate the bureau believes the banks may
have violated the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, a 1974 law that
bars discrimination in lending.  The letters, sent as vehicle loan originations are on the
rise, demonstrate that the CFPB may be willing to sanction banks
over mark-ups by auto dealers, which were excluded from the
bureau’s supervision in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Law. As the economy
has improved, auto loans climbed to $85.8 billion in the third
quarter of 2012, according to the  Federal Reserve .  CFPB Director  Richard Cordray  said in a conference call
with credit unions on Feb. 5, that auto lending “is within our
jurisdiction,” without referencing any enforcement plans.  Moira Vahey, a CFPB spokeswoman, declined to confirm the
existence of the letters or comment on possible enforcement
matters.  The regulation of auto lending was one of the hardest-
fought provisions of Dodd-Frank. Dealers often provide financing
by giving buyers loans backed by banks and other lenders, a
process known as indirect lending. CFPB has the authority to
supervise banks with more than $10 billion in assets.  The agency also has the authority to issue a regulation
that would allow it to supervise the larger players in the field
of auto lending that aren’t traditional banks.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Big Four Auditing Dominance Hurts Quality, U.K. Regulator Says  The Big Four accounting firms’ dominance over corporate
audits in Britain will probably lead to higher prices, lower
quality and a failure of customers to innovate and meet
shareholders’ demands, a regulator said.  The lack of competition also makes it difficult to compare
prices and switch providers, resulting in 31 percent of the
U.K.’s 100 biggest publicly traded companies using the same
accounting firm for the past two decades, the  Competition
Commission  said today in provisional findings following a 16-
month probe of the industry.  The probe focused on KPMG LLP, Deloitte LLP, Ernst & Young
LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the same companies at the
center of a similar European Union effort to increase
competition in the industry. A U.K. government committee
investigating the global financial crisis had called for a probe
of the four accounting firms, which earned 99 percent of audit
fees paid by the FTSE 100 companies in 2010.  The U.K. Competition Commission said it’s considering
possible remedies including mandatory bidding and rotations
processes.  The Competition Commission said it will issue a final
report by Oct. 20.  Structured Note Value Disclosure Examined by Europe Regulators  Regulators in Europe are discussing whether issuers of
structured notes should be forced to disclose to investors the
value of the securities, which package debt with derivatives.  The European Securities and Markets Authority, set up in
2011 to harmonize regulations for financial markets across the
27-nation European Union, could introduce new rules by 2015,
according to Paris-based spokesman David Cliffe.  Structured notes offer customized bets to investors and are
under scrutiny from regulators in the U.S. and Europe because of
their complexity and lack of transparency. The value of
securities is lower than the issue price to account for costs
including underwriting fees, hedging costs and expenses to
create and market the notes.  Any new European regulations would be included in an update
of Europe’s Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, which is
being reviewed by EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel
Barnier  as part of a wider overhaul of the securities industry.
Mifid II is expected to come into force in 2015, Cliffe said.  In the U.S., the Securities and Exchange Commission plans
to require banks to disclose the estimated initial value of
notes, including how they arrived at prices for the bond and
derivatives components, according to a report from securities
law firm Morrison & Foerster LLP.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bank of America Corp. and  Royal
Bank of Canada (RY)  started publishing their estimates in
prospectuses in anticipation of new rules.  In Europe, any new guidelines for structured notes will be
agreed upon between ESMA and the 27 national financial
regulators in the EU, and would apply equally across the
continent, Cliffe said.  EU Bank Watchdog to Rank Assets by Liquidity for Basel Rules  Europe’s top banking regulator will start ranking financial
assets in order of liquidity as it implements international
rules to protect banks from a sudden loss of short-term funding.  The  European Banking Authority  will create a “scorecard”
of asset liquidity, the agency said in an e-mailed statement, as
part of requirements that banks hold a buffer of assets, known
as the Liquidity Coverage Ratio, they can quickly sell to
survive a 30-day credit squeeze.  Central bankers from around the world, who make up the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, agreed on Jan. 6 to give
banks more time and the right to use more types of securities to
meet the liquidity ratio. The LCR is part of an overhaul of
global financial rules, known as Basel III, intended to prevent
a repeat of the financial crisis that followed the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, is
pressing for an agreement to have the liquidity rule take full
effect on Jan. 1, 2018, a year ahead of a deadline set last
month by the global central bank chiefs. Global regulators had
previously planned to implement the requirement fully as early
as 2015.  The EBA will seek to come up with a definition of
liquidity, “recognize that some asset classes are more liquid
than others, and define which assets should be subject to a cap
on their usage in the buffer,” the agency said in a
consultation document on its website.  Compliance Action  Swiss Franc Rates Added to EU’s Interbank Collusion Probes  European Union antitrust regulators are investigating
collusion among banks and brokers to manipulate benchmark
lending rates denominated in Swiss francs, building on earlier
probes linked to the yen and the euro, EU Competition
Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said today.  Deutsche Bank AG,  Barclays Plc (RBS) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  have all said they were questioned by
the EU over benchmark  interest rates . Almunia has said that he’s
investigating possible rate-fixing for Libor, Euribor and the
Tokyo index Tibor that may have affected derivatives. He said
today that the Euribor probe is linked to the euro and declined
to comment further on currencies linked to the other rates.  The Libor probes are an “absolute priority” for the EU,
Almunia said today. Any fines from EU regulators will cover all
the companies involved at once, he said. That differs from other
financial regulators that have settled with banks separately.
 Barclays (BARC) ,  UBS (UBSN)  AG and RBS have been fined more than $2.5 billion
by U.S. and U.K. financial regulators for manipulating the
London interbank offered rate and more than a dozen more firms
are being investigated.  UBS has received conditional immunity from U.S. and Swiss
antitrust regulators for cooperating with investigations. The
bank said it sought immunity for probes on yen Libor, Euroyen
Tibor and Swiss franc Libor.  The EU can levy fines of as much of 10 percent of a
company’s yearly global revenue for each cartel in which they
participate.  For more, click here.  SNS Reaal Wins Temporary Approval From EU for Dutch Rescue  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  won temporary approval from European Union
regulators for recapitalizations and a bridge loan from the
Dutch government, which took control of the country’s fourth-
largest lender on Feb. 1.  A restructuring plan for SNS Reaal must be sent to the
 European Commission  within six months before the Brussels-based
authority gives final approval for the aid, the EU said in an e-
mailed statement today. The EU will examine a 300 million-euro
($396 million) recapitalization and a 1.1 billion-euro bridge
loan for SNS Reaal and a 1.9 billion-euro recapitalization for
its SNS Bank unit.  Mexico Agency Rejects Telecom Accord From Phone Regulator  Mexico’s phone regulator must study whether to force phone
companies to lease the parts of their network that connect
directly to the homes and businesses of customers, a concept
known as “local-loop unbundling,” the nation’s regulatory
review agency said.  The  Federal Regulatory Improvement Commission  rejected a
proposal from the Federal Telecommunications Commission to
regulate the way phone companies connect to each other, a
document known as the Interconnection Framework Accord. The
phone regulator must provide an analysis of costs and benefits
of local-loop unbundling to win approval for the regulation, the
regulatory review agency said in a  letter  on its website.  The phone regulator said last month it aimed to publish the
regulation in early February, assuming it got approval from the
regulatory improvement commission. The government has said
 America Movil SAB (AMX)  must sign the document to win approval for its
Telmex unit to offer pay-TV service in Mexico.  EU to Prioritize Collective Redress, Close Antitrust Probe  European Union Competition  Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
said regulators may draft rules on collective redress to allow
group lawsuits ahead of legislating on private damages actions
for victims of cartels to seek compensation.  Separately, Almunia said regulators will close an antitrust
probe into banks’ online payment program after the group
abandoned work on e-payments standards.  Courts  NCAA Sues Pennsylvania Over $60 Million Sandusky Abuse Fine  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association  filed a
lawsuit accusing Pennsylvania of trying to confiscate a $60
million sanction imposed against  Pennsylvania State University 
in the Jerry Sandusky child-abuse case.  A new law that lets the state control the use of the funds
violates the U.S. Constitution and can’t be enforced, the NCAA
said in a complaint filed Feb. 20 in federal court in
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. The bill, passed this month and
enacted yesterday, applies to all large fines levied against
state-supported institutions.  Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett’s office is reviewing the
complaint, spokeswoman Janet Kelley said in an e-mail.  Corbett supported and signed the law “because he believes
it is important to keep this money in Pennsylvania,” Kelley
said in the e-mail. “He believes it makes sense and is the
right thing to do.”  Corbett sued the Indianapolis-based NCAA in January,
challenging the fine levied against the school for its failure
to prevent sexual abuse by Sandusky, a former Penn State
assistant football coach who was convicted of molesting 10 boys.
The governor accused the NCAA of using the Sandusky offenses as
a “pretext” to impose unprecedented sanctions in violation of
antitrust laws.  The NCAA countered in papers filed this month that Corbett
has no standing to bring the case and is seeking to undo an
agreement “freely entered into” by Penn State.  The Pennsylvania Institution of Higher Education Consent
Decree Endowment Act attempts to “negate a valid contract”
between the NCAA and Penn State, the sports association said in
court papers. The act, which says that fines levied from a
school become property of the state, “amounts to a taking of
private property without just compensation,” the NCAA said.  The governing body is asking a judge to declare the law
unconstitutional and bar its enforcement.  The case is NCAA v. Corbett, 13-00457, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  Interviews/Speeches  EU and U.K. Plans to Split Banks ‘Problematical,’ Goodhart Says  European and U.K. proposals to separate lenders’ investment
banking and retail divisions are “problematical,” said  Charles
Goodhart , a former member of the Bank of England’s Monetary
Policy Committee.  “The degree to which the Liikanen proposals are being
watered down is simply a trend in that direction,” Goodhart
said in a speech in London. If the U.K. implements its own plan
to split banks, “we will largely be doing it on our own,”
Goodhart said.  LME Stands to Gain as EU Seeks OTC Derivative Transparency  The London Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest industrial-
metals marketplace, stands to gain as the European Union seeks
greater transparency for over-the-counter derivatives, its
deputy chief executive officer said.  Diarmuid O’Hegarty made the remarks yesterday at a press
conference. The LME held a separate briefing on the EU’s
European Market Infrastructure Regulation for its members, which
include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   EMIR  mandates  clearing of OTC derivatives, as well as
reporting of all derivative contracts to a so-called trade
repository. Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for
all trades made by their members to reduce risk from an
individual default. The LME is starting its own clearing
business with a goal of going into operation next year.  Regulators around the world are seeking to push more
trading onto clearinghouses in reaction to the 2008 financial
crisis. Investors bought and sold contracts worth $14.5 trillion
last year on the LME, where copper, aluminum, nickel, tin, zinc
and lead are traded.  Rules including EMIR will increase the costs of running
metals businesses, according to O’Hegarty. He said the new
regulations will amount to “a benefit” in case of an event
similar to the 2011 collapse of futures brokerage  MF Global
Inc. (MFGLQ) , which reported a $1.6 billion shortfall in customer funds.  Increased rulemaking was not aimed specifically at the
metals market, and regulators have yet to provide definitions
for OTC derivative contracts, O’Hegarty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  