-- Charoen’s Fraser & Neave Takeover Was Years in the Making
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-02-22T10:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/charoen-s-fraser-neave-takeover-was-years-in-the-making.html
Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi’s $11.2 billion takeover of  Singapore ’s  Fraser
& Neave Ltd. (FNN) , clinched after a rival bid was dropped at the last
minute, was more than three years in the making.  Charoen debated an investment in the 130-year-old
conglomerate as early as mid-2009 as he considered expanding
outside  Thailand , said four people with knowledge of the matter
who asked not to be identified because the talks were private. A
decision was put on hold amid doubts that pivotal F&N
shareholders, including  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) , would be
willing to sell, the people said.  The deal gained momentum again in late 2011, when Charoen
learned that F&N was considering a restructuring that might
boost its value, said the people. Charoen and representatives
including son-in-law Chotipat Bijananda and son Thapana, then
persuaded OCBC to sell its 22 percent stake in F&N, setting the
stage for the seven-month takeover saga that pitted him against
Dutch brewer  Heineken (HEIA)  NV and a Singapore property tycoon. The
transaction closed on Feb. 18.  Charoen’s takeover of F&N, whose businesses range from milk
to shopping malls, burnished the reputation of Thailand’s
richest man, worth $11.8 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . Charoen, born and raised in Bangkok’s
Chinatown district, has seen his wealth swell by $3 billion this
year alone -- more than any other Asian billionaire -- as shares
of his publicly traded companies rose, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Stealth Moves  “He’s the man of the moment,” said Goh Han Peng, a
Singapore-based analyst at DMG & Partners Securities Pte.
“Charoen played his hand very well in the fight for F&N, often
leaving the market to guess on his intentions and out-
maneuvering the competition through stealth moves.”  Discussions on how to win OCBC’s stake in F&N intensified
in mid-2012 with multiple meetings taking place in Charoen’s
Bangkok home and at Singapore’s Intercontinental Hotel, the
people said.  Charoen’s advisers were concerned that F&N might split its
property and beverage businesses, increasing its market value
and complicating a stake purchase. They pushed for quick action,
according to the people, deciding in May to approach OCBC about
its shares at a board meeting of  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , which
Charoen also controls.  OCBC Meetings  On June 20 at 2:30 p.m. Chotipat and Thapana met with OCBC
Chief Financial Officer Darren Tan at the bank’s Singapore
headquarters to give him an offer document, said two people with
knowledge of the meeting. A few days later Charoen met Cheong
Choong Kong, OCBC’s chairman, Chief Executive Officer Samuel
Tsien and Fang Ai Lian, chairman of the bank’s insurance unit,
to convince them to sell, this person said.  Somthawin Patanavanich, a spokeswoman for TCC Assets Ltd.,
Charoen’s company, didn’t answer a call to her office or respond
to an e-mail. Koh Ching Ching, a spokeswoman for OCBC, declined
to comment on the meeting.  After weeks of talks, OCBC and two affiliates announced on
July 18 an agreement to sell their combined 22 percent stake in
F&N to ThaiBev for S$2.78 billion ($2.2 billion), or S$8.88 per
share -- a 12 percent premium to the previous day’s closing
price. An entity linked to Charoen also bought the companies’
shares in  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB) , at the time 40 percent
owned by F&N.  The battle for F&N revealed quirks in Charoen’s
personality, including a penchant for lucky numbers -- the
figure 8 is seen as auspicious among Thailand’s Chinese
community -- and an attention to detail that went as far as
dictating the exact timing of presenting the offer to OCBC,
people close to the process said. They described the billionaire
as low-key and favoring the same uniform: a white shirt and
dress trousers.  Heineken Contest  The APB deal set the billionaire on crossing paths with
Heineken, which was seeking control of the maker of Tiger beer.
Charoen’s involvement ultimately forced Heineken, the world’s
third-biggest brewer, to raise its offer for the rest of APB by
6 percent to S$5.6 billion, a deal that closed in November.  On Sept. 13, Charoen bid S$9 billion for the rest of F&N.  That was countered in November when a group led by  Overseas
Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE) , a Singapore-based property company, made
a S$9.08 per share offer for F&N, topping the Thai tycoon’s bid.
OUE Executive Chairman Stephen Riady is a son of Mochtar Riady,
who controls  Indonesia ’s Lippo Group, with businesses ranging
from real estate and financial services to food across Asia. OUE
enlisted Kirin Holding Co., the Japanese brewer that held 15
percent of F&N, for its offer.  Bangkok Flight  As F&N shares kept trading above both offers, the deal
remained in limbo until January as TCC and OUE repeatedly
extended their bids without raising them. The impasse lasted
until midnight on Jan. 18, when Charoen boosted his offer to
S$9.55 a share and said he bought an additional 6.3 percent of
F&N -- just three days before an auction to be directed by the
city-state’s financial regulator was scheduled to start.  With a deadline for an OUE counterbid approaching, Charoen
advisers flew to Bangkok from Singapore to plot a response, the
people said. Only when they landed in the Thai capital did they
learn that OUE had refrained from raising its offer, clearing
the path for Charoen’s takeover.  Morgan Stanley, DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,  Malayan Banking
Bhd (MAY) , HSBC Holdings Plc and  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  worked for
Charoen on the deal, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. advised F&N.  “This was undoubtedly one of the most fascinating deals to
have worked on given the innumerable complexities,” said David Aronovitch, Morgan Stanley’s co-head of investment banking for
Southeast Asia, who was among the firm’s lead bankers on the
transaction  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  