-- China Decade From Having Global Carmaker, Bernstein Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-22T04:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/china-is-10-years-from-having-global-automaker-bernstein-says.html
Chinese automakers are about a
decade away from being globally competitive and will have to
increase their spending on research and development to close the
gap, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Carmakers such as  General Motors Co. (GM) , Volkswagen AG and
Toyota Motor Corp. are outspending Chinese brands on research
and development and lead in engineering, said  Max Warburton , an
auto analyst at Bernstein, which has a neutral rating on China’s
auto industry. The Chinese have the will and money to make their
auto industry world class, he said.  “The Chinese are 80 percent of the way there, 20 percent
doesn’t sound very hard, but it’s probably the most complex bits
to get right,” Warburton, who is based in Singapore, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “They’ll be spending until they make
it work and eventually they’ll end up with Chinese carmakers on
the world stage.”  China’s brands are losing share in their home market as
foreign manufacturers increase local production and introduce
lower-priced models. The country’s automakers spend less than 2
percent of revenue on research and product development, or about
half the global average, according to the  China  Association of
Automobile Manufacturers.  Of the more than one hundred Chinese automakers,  SAIC Motor
Corp. (600104)  stands the best chance of becoming a world-class
manufacturer as it has learned a “huge amount” from its joint
venture partner General Motors and has more experienced
engineers compared with the rest, Warburton said.  The Bernstein team was also “positively surprised” by the
progress made by smaller, independent Chinese automakers such as
 Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175) , Warburton said. A teardown of
Geely’s EC7 model showed that the Hangzhou, China-based company
had a clear grip of engine technology and called it “almost
competitive” with global automakers.  Bernstein has outperform ratings on Brilliance China
Automotive Holdings Ltd. and  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. (489)  and market
perform for Great Wall Motor Co. and Guangzhou Automobile Group
Co.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  