-- China-Costa Rica Economic Zone Under Discussion, Minister Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-22T12:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/china-costa-rica-economic-zone-under-discussion-minister-says.html
Costa Rica and China are discussing
establishing an economic zone in the Central American country as
an export platform for Chinese companies, Trade Minister Anabel
Gonzalez said.  Costa Rica and  China Development Bank  are developing a
feasibility study for the “Special Chinese Economic Zone,”
Gonzalez, a candidate to succeed  Pascal Lamy  as director-general
of the  World Trade Organization , said in an interview in Beijing
today.  China’s outbound non-financial investment rose 29 percent
to a record $77.2 billion last year, Ministry of Commerce data
show, underscoring government efforts to encourage overseas
expansion to gain access to technology and resources. A special
economic zone for Chinese companies in Costa Rica would be the
first in  Latin America , Gonzalez said.  “We’d like to see more Chinese investment in Costa Rica,”
said Gonzalez, 49. “We think there are, of course, great
Chinese companies out there that could benefit from Costa Rica’s
strong value proposition in the area of investment and very
strong human resources, strategic location, a very good business
environment and a strong transportation network to export to the
Americas.”  Chinese companies will invest as much as $2 trillion
overseas in the decade through 2020, a report by New York-based
Rhodium Group estimated last year. So far China’s investment in
Costa Rica has been “relatively small,” Gonzalez said.  Gonzalez is competing with candidates including New
Zealand’s trade minister Tim Groser and  Ghana ’s former trade
minister Alan John Kyerematen to succeed the WTO’s Lamy, who
retires in August.  Gonzalez said the time is right for the next head of the
WTO to come from a developing nation and that she would work to
help developing nations in  Africa  and elsewhere that aren’t
integrated into the global economy.  “I would like to work very closely with these countries to
make sure that the WTO can support inclusive growth for all
members,” Gonzalez said.  She also said “there’s a need to revitalize the
organization, in particular its negotiating function.”  --Kevin Hamlin. Editors: Scott Lanman, Richard Jarvie  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  