-- China Overnight Rate Completes Weekly Gain as PBOC Drains Funds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-22T08:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/china-overnight-rate-set-for-weekly-gain-as-pboc-drains-funds.html
China ’s overnight money-market rate
had its first weekly gain in three on speculation the central
bank’s record withdrawal of funds will increase borrowing costs.  The People’s Bank of China drained a net 910 billion  yuan 
($146 billion) of capital from the financial system this week,
the most since Bloomberg started compiling the  data  in 2008. The
monetary authority sold repurchase contracts for the first time
since June on Feb. 19, withdrawing funds from banks after they
lent the most money in two years in January.  “Banks have turned cautious about lending to each other
since PBOC resumed repo sales,” said Song Qiuhong, a bond
analyst at Foshan Shunde Rural Commercial Bank Co. in Foshan, a
city in the southern province of Guangdong. “Money rates may
rise more next week when banks start hoarding cash to meet
month-end  capital requirements .”  The one-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, climbed 34 basis points this week to 2.21
percent as of 4:31 p.m. in Shanghai, according to a weighted
average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.
The rate jumped 18 basis points today, the biggest increase
since Feb. 6.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose eight basis
points this week to 3.21 percent, the highest since Jan. 23,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate gained five
basis points today.  The yield on the 2.81 percent government bonds due January
2014 fell one basis point this week to 2.69 percent, according
to the Interbank Funding Center. The yield was steady today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in  Shanghai  at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  