-- Gutierrez Leaves Citigroup for Republican Immigration Role
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-02-22T15:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/citigroup-s-gutierrez-leaves-to-take-republican-immigration-role.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Carlos Gutierrez,
the vice chairman of its institutional clients group, resigned
to become chairman of Republicans for Immigration Reform.  Gutierrez, 59, who led the Commerce Department under
President  George W. Bush , helped to found the super-political
action committee last year. Born in Havana, Gutierrez joined New
York-based Citigroup in December 2010 and worked in a division
that includes the lender’s trading, investment-banking and
corporate lending operations.  “Carlos has long been a passionate, critical voice in the
discussion on immigration reform,” Jamie Forese and Ned Kelly,
who oversee the unit, wrote today in an employee memo obtained
by  Bloomberg News . “Carlos has become a trusted adviser,
providing Citi and our clients with his unique global
perspectives on a myriad of issues facing the world economy.”  Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney lost to
President Barack Obama in November because the “far right” of
the party has taken it to a place where it doesn’t belong,
Gutierrez said that month, according to a transcript of a CNN
interview. Romney received only 27 percent of the fast-growing
Hispanic vote in the election after calling for the “self-
deportation” of Hispanics in the U.S. illegally.  Gutierrez spent almost 30 years at  Kellogg Co. (K) , the biggest
U.S. cereal maker. He joined the Battle Creek, Michigan-based
company in 1975 as a sales representative and rose to president
and chief executive officer in 1999, becoming the youngest CEO
in its almost 100-year history, Citigroup said in 2010. He was
named board chairman in April 2000.  The Washington Post reported Gutierrez’s plan to resign
earlier today on its political blog, the Fix.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  