-- City’s Suit for Golden Chain From Grave Fails in Berlin
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-02-22T13:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/city-s-suit-for-golden-chain-from-grave-fails-in-berlin.html
A Berlin court rejected a suit by
the city of Wismar seeking the handover of a 400-year-old gilded
chain unearthed in 1965 from an East German graveyard, where it
lay hidden from the Soviet authorities.  Borghild Niemann, now a retired librarian, crept into the
graveyard almost 50 years ago with her father to recover the
hidden chain and smuggled it back into  West Germany . She says
the treasure should belong to a business association in the
Baltic port of Wismar to which her father later donated it, and
not to the city of Wismar which is claiming it.  The city government of Wismar filed suit against her,
arguing that under Soviet military law the chain should have
been handed in to the occupiers and demanding it be transferred
to public ownership. Judge Juergen Beier ruled that the statute
of limitations renders the city’s suit invalid at Berlin’s
regional court today.  “I am very happy,” Niemann said at court after the
decision. “I still think it is mad that I had to go to court.”  The gold-plated silver chain, called the Papagoyenkette
because of its parrot pendant, was the insignia of a merchants’
guild founded in the Middle Ages in the Hanseatic League port of
Wismar. Its value is primarily symbolic and historic, according
to Niemann’s lawyer, Ulf Bischof of Bischof & Paetow
Rechtsanwaelte in Berlin. He estimated it would fetch more than
10,000 euros ($13,230) if sold commercially.  Shooting Parrots  Crafted by a local goldsmith in the early 17th century, the
chain was awarded to the winner of a shooting competition where
the targets were wooden parrots.  The Kaufmanns-Compagnie Wismar guild is known to have
existed at least as early as 1379. It survived until 1945, when
the Soviet military authorities ordered its dissolution and
expropriation.  “This is a success for all German families who managed to
salvage property from eastern  Germany ,” Bischof said.
“Otherwise they could have been subject to lawsuits from East
German local authorities upholding Soviet-era expropriation.”  The parrot chain was saved from confiscation by a guild
member who buried it in his family grave, sealed in a tin, in
1945, according to court documents obtained by  Bloomberg News .  As an 18-year-old, Niemann accompanied her father Robert
Haeussler across the border to dig up the chain, she said. They
worked by nightfall, in fear of being caught by the East German
authorities.  “I kept watch and my father dug with a pitchfork,”
Niemann said. “He pulled up the tin. The parrot chain was
black, like a lump of earth, wrapped in a moldy cloth.”  Border Crossing  From Wismar, they took the train back across the border to
western Germany with their smuggled booty, Niemann said. She
wore the chain around her neck, under a jacket, and said she was
“terrified.” Her father had the pendant on his keyring in his
pocket. They were not searched by East German border guards.  The parrot and chain remained in a safe in the family home
until the fall of the  Berlin Wall  in 1989, after which Haeussler
moved back to Wismar. He tried to re-establish the merchants’
guild and failed because of a shortage of surviving members.
Haeussler continued to dedicate his life to Wismar. In 2000 --
at the age of 88 -- he was elected to the city council.  In 2008, Haeussler donated the Papagoyenkette to the
 Wismarer Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft e.V.,  a local business
association, on condition that it be worn on festive occasions,
remain in Wismar forever and revert to the  city museum  if the
association is ever dissolved.  When the city raised doubts about the legality of
Haeussler’s grave-digging operation, the Wismarer
Wirtschaftsgemeinschaft reversed the donation, handing the chain
back to his daughter after Haeussler’s death.  Niemann is determined that the chain should belong to
Wismar’s business community and not the city authorities.  “The chain belongs to the city of Wismar, but not on the
mayor’s chest,” she said. “It’s important to me that alongside
the city council, we keep the traditions of a civil society.”  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food;  Mark Beech 
on books;  New York  and London  weekend guides ;  Lewis Lapham  on
history and  Lance Esplund  on New York art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 