-- Colorado After Aurora Shows Hurdles to Gunbuyer Checks
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-02-22T02:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/colorado-after-aurora-shows-hurdles-to-gunbuyer-checks.html
Colorado ’s largest maker of high-
capacity ammunition magazines expresses its view of a gun-
control push in the legislature this way: A red slash crosses
out “Colorado” in the corporate logo on its Facebook  page  and
replaces it with a question mark.  As Democratic lawmakers in its home state press to limit
the capacity of magazines and impose other restrictions,  Magpul
Industries Corp.  and a firm that supplies it,  Alfred
Manufacturing Inc. , are threatening to take hundreds of jobs
elsewhere.  The legislation’s “sweeping and arbitrary ban on magazines
will also make it effectively impossible for this Colorado
company to remain here,” wrote Richard Fitzpatrick, a former
Marine who founded Magpul in his basement in 1999, and Doug
Smith, the company’s chief operating officer, in an open letter
to Governor John Hickenlooper and lawmakers that appeared as a
full-page ad in the Denver Post on Feb. 17.  The threats place Colorado lawmakers and Hickenlooper, a
Democrat, at the center of a debate in Congress and statehouses
nationwide: balancing calls to curb gun violence that followed
mass shootings in Newtown,  Connecticut , and Aurora, Colorado,
with the Second Amendment right to bear arms.  Gun-control legislation is being considered in at least 10
other states including  Arizona , Connecticut,  Illinois ,  Maryland ,
 Missouri , New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Virginia and
 Vermont . Connecticut’s Democratic governor, Dannel Malloy,
called yesterday for broadening the state’s ban on assault
weapons to include the type of rifle used in the killing of 20
children and six adults at Newtown’s Sandy Hook Elementary
School.  Mass Shootings  Colorado’s Hickenlooper said recent mass shootings, coupled
with the 1999 massacre at Columbine High School in his state,
are changing public opinions about guns.  “The tragedies at Columbine and Aurora really bring into
sharp focus some of the differences in peoples’ attitudes,”
Hickenlooper said at a forum this week sponsored by the Denver
Post and the Counterterrorism Education Learning Lab, a Denver-
based nonprofit group that promotes discussion of security
issues. “I think because of the horrific nature of those
shootings it’s put Colorado at the front of this debate.”  In an interview, Hickenlooper said he planned to talk to
executives at Magpul Industries about their concerns.  The Colorado legislature is considering  measures  that
include limiting ammunition magazines to 15 rounds (eight rounds
for shotguns) and requiring  background checks  for all firearm
purchases. The package passed the Democrat-controlled House on
Feb. 18.  Democratic Majority  The package is expected to be introduced next week in the
Senate, where its prospects are less certain. Democrats hold a
20-15 majority and need 18 votes to pass the bills. Some
Democrats have expressed concern about the high-capacity
magazine bill, saying they don’t want to drive businesses and
jobs out of the state.  Magpul, based in Erie, about 28 miles (45 kilometers) north
of Denver, provides work for plastics molders like Alfred
Manufacturing, said Greg Alfred, chief executive of the 65-year-
old company, in a Feb. 15 letter to Hickenlooper. Magpul’s
business helped Alfred grow to 150 employees today from 40 in
2008, he said.  “If HB 1224 passes, we will plain and simply have no
choice but to relocate part or all of our operations to another
state,” Alfred said.  Limiting Capacity  Limiting the capacity of magazines for firearms such as
those used in the Newtown and Aurora shootings has been a focus
of gun-control efforts in numerous states.  In Congress, Senator Frank Lautenberg, a New Jersey
Democrat, introduced legislation on Jan. 22 to ban the
manufacture and sale of magazines holding more than 10 rounds.
The measure echoes a House bill sponsored by Representative
Carolyn McCarthy, a Democrat from New York, and may be the
Democrats’ best chance to pass legislation on weapons hardware.  Magpul’s opposition has helped focus much of the debate in
Colorado on magazine limits.  “We’ve had a total of 34 massacres and out of the 34 that
have taken place in our nation, 28 of them have something in
common,” said state Representative Rhonda Fields at a forum
this week. Fields, a Democrat whose district includes Aurora,
was the House sponsor of the bill to put limits on magazines.  “They all had a high-capacity magazine clip in common,”
Fields said. Lives were saved when the shooters paused to reload
and “someone was able to tackle that person,” she said.  Massacre Use  High-capacity magazines were used in massacres at Virginia
Tech in 2007, Fort Hood in 2009 and Sandy Hook Elementary
School. James Holmes, accused of killing 12 people and wounding
58 in the Aurora movie theater shooting, was equipped with a
100-round magazine, police have said.  The gun-control debate is eclipsing other issues in
Colorado. About a third of residents own at least one firearm, a
legacy of the state’s frontier heritage.  About 80 percent of Coloradans agree that private gun sales
should go through a licensed dealer and be subject to a
background check, and 61 percent approve of a ban on high-
capacity magazines, according to a telephone  survey  of 905
voters by Keating Research Inc., Dec. 17-20. The margin for
error was plus or minus 3.3 percentage points.  Colorado law currently requires a background check when
purchasing weapons at a gun show or through a licensed dealer.
Checks on gun show sales were overwhelmingly approved by voters
after the Columbine massacre.  Intense Lobbying  Lobbying intensified on both sides of the gun debate after
Democratic leaders indicated in January that they’d introduce a
package of bills. Gun-rights supporters sponsored ads on local
radio stations, while  Mayors Against Illegal Guns , affiliated
with New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, put at least four
lobbyists to work in the state capital, according to filings
with the Secretary of State. Bloomberg is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  “Every time I open my e-mail, I have 50 or 60 on this
issue -- it just goes on,” said state Senator Lois Tochtrop, a
Thornton Democrat. “The vast majority of them are against not
only the high-powered magazines, but all the legislation coming
forward.”  Tochtrop said several Democrats were concerned about
Magpul’s threat to leave the state, and she hasn’t decided how
she’ll vote on the magazine bill.  “I hate to see a business leave the state on legislation
that is going to be very hard to enforce,” she said.  Gunmakers are also threatening to leave other states if
curbs on firearms are approved. In Maryland, where Democratic
Governor Martin O’Malley wants to ban semi-automatic weapons and
high-capacity magazines, Accokeek-based  Beretta U.S.A. Corp. 
said it’s being courted by other states at a legislative hearing
this month.  Texas Beckons  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and South Carolina Representative
Jeff Duncan, both Republicans, recently invited Magpul to
relocate to their states, Representative Cory Gardner, a
Colorado Republican, said in a statement on Feb. 20.  Colorado’s gun industry contributed 4,765 jobs, an economic
impact of $590.7 million, and $43 million in state tax revenue
in 2012, according to data compiled by the Newtown, Connecticut-
based  National Shooting Sports Foundation , an industry group.  These jobs included positions in manufacturing, which
employed 133,400 in December, and retail trade, where 244,500
worked in the same period, according to the state’s Labor
Department.  While the firearms industry’s contribution to the state’s
$264 billion private-sector gross domestic product is small, it
has a multiplier effect of two -- meaning it creates a job
somewhere else for each person it employs -- that helped prop up
Colorado’s struggling manufacturing sector, said  Gary Horvath , a
Broomfield-based economist.  “The key thing here is that all jobs are important,” he
said. “You would hate to see the state lose anyone,
particularly given the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
Jtaylor48@bloomberg 