-- Colombia Cuts Rate to 3.75% to Boost Slowest Growth in Andes
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-02-22T20:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/colombia-cuts-rate-to-3-75-to-boost-slowest-growth-in-andes.html
Colombia’s central bank cut interest
rates for the sixth time since June, as policy makers try to
revive the slowest growth in the Andean region amid below-target
inflation.  Banco de la Republica, led by bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe, cut its  benchmark rate  by a quarter point to 3.75
percent, as forecast by 26 of 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
One analyst forecast no change, while one forecast a half-point
cut. The decision was unanimous, Uribe said.  Policy makers have lowered borrowing costs 1.5 percentage
point since June, as the economy expanded at its slowest pace in
four years, and annual inflation fell below target. The central
bank will probably also cut by a quarter point in March, as
growth shows little sign of rebounding, said Juan David Ballen
of Alianza Valores SA brokerage, the analyst with the most
accurate track record of calling central bank decisions in
Bloomberg surveys. Board members today also cited a coal strike
and  Venezuela ’s devaluation in their decision.  “Economic growth in the first quarter will be affected by
the lower number of working days in the period, and for supply
shocks in exports of coal and for the risk of lower demand from
Venezuela,” policy makers said in their statement that
accompanied their decision.  No ‘Clear Indication’  Workers at Cerrejon, Colombia’s largest coal mine, walked
off the job Feb. 7 for higher pay and health benefits, while
Colombia’s second-largest producer, Drummond Inc. had its
loading license suspended Feb. 6 after it dumped coal into the
Caribbean Jan. 13. Coal is Colombia’s No. 1 export after oil.  President Hugo Chavez’s government devalued the bolivar 32
percent to 6.3 bolivars per dollar starting Feb. 13. Trade
between the neighboring Andean nations has been recovering since
plunging in 2008-2010.  “The data still don’t show a clear indication of
improvement in construction licenses, industry, financial
services or mining,” Ballen said in a telephone interview
before the rate decision. “These have been decelerating over
the last three quarters, and we still don’t see signs that this
trend is changing.”  Annual inflation eased to 2 percent last month, taking it
to the lower bound of policy makers’ 2 percent to 4 percent
target range. Uribe said Feb. 8 that the central bank wants to
get the annual pace of consumer price increases back up to the 3
percent midpoint of the range. Colombia and  Chile  are Latin
America’s only major economies with below-target inflation.  ‘Room for Cuts’  The central bank may now pause to gauge the effect of the
150 basis points of cuts, said Daniel Lozano, head analyst at
brokerage Serfinco SA.  “In terms of inflation there’s still room for cuts, but
the economy is going to start feeling the effect of the past
reductions,” said Daniel Lozano, head analyst at brokerage
Serfinco SA.  Serfinco expects Colombia to hold the rate at 3.75 percent
until the end of 2013.  The economy expanded  2.1 percent  in the third quarter from
a year earlier, the weakest growth since 2008. The central bank
says gross domestic product probably rose 3.3 percent to 3.9
percent last year, down from 5.9 percent in 2011. GDP will rise
2.5 percent to 4.5 percent this year, according to the central
bank’s forecast.  At its January meeting, the central bank said it would
boost dollar purchases to at least $30 million a day and will
buy at least $3 billion between February and May. Finance
Minister Mauricio Cardenas has said repeatedly that he wants to
weaken the peso to 1,950 per U.S. dollar.  Board, Peso  Today’s decision was taken by five board members, instead
of the usual seven, after Fernando Tenjo and Juan Jose Echavarria left the bank in January.  President Juan Manuel Santos yesterday named Deputy Finance
Minister Ana Fernanda Maiguashca and Adolfo Meisel, head of the
central bank’s regional branch in Cartagena, to replace the
outgoing pair.  Yields on the government’s 10 percent peso debt due in 2024
have fallen 69 basis points, or 0.69 percentage point, in 2013
to 4.97 percent, as traders trimmed bets on rate cuts.  The peso has declined 1.8 percent this year as the
government and central bank announced increased dollar purchases
to stem a rally that sent the peso to a 17-month intraday high
on Jan. 2.  In trading today, the currency closed little changed at
1,798.99 per dollar from 1799.20 yesterday.  Cardenas today said that the peso will continue on a
weakening trend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  