-- Colombian Yields Decline on Bets for More Cuts; Peso Depreciates
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-02-22T15:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/colombian-yields-decline-on-bets-for-more-cuts-peso-depreciates.html
Colombian bond yields fell to a
record on mounting speculation that policy makers will extend
interest rate cuts after President  Juan Manuel Santos  named two
new central bank board members.  Yields on the government’s benchmark peso-denominated bonds
due in 2024 dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 4.97 percent at 10:17 a.m. in Bogota, the lowest level since
they were issued in 2009.  Santos announced yesterday that he named Deputy Finance
Minister Ana Fernanda Maiguashca and Adolfo Meisel, who heads
the central bank’s branch in Cartagena, to the seven-member
board that sets  interest rates . The new members will begin
voting at the bank’s March policy meeting, sitting out today’s
vote. The remaining five members will reduce the benchmark
lending rate by 0.25 percentage point to 3.75 percent, according
to a majority of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The market has interpreted the namings as a confirmation
today’s cut won’t be the last,” John Jairo Ramirez, a fixed-
income analyst at Bolsa y Renta brokerage, said in a phone
interview from Medellin.  Maiguashca said in a Feb. 12 interview that the central
bank should pursue a range of goals instead of focusing
exclusively on inflation.  ‘Orthodox’ Economist  Meisel said in an interview in Javeriana radio today that
he is an “orthodox” economist who believes in markets and also
in state intervention.  “Meisel is seen as dovish as he might be the government’s
card to help contain the peso’s gains,” said Ramirez. “Coming
from the government, Maiguashca might start out dovish but I
think in the longer run she’ll take a more hawkish stance given
her background in financial regulation.”  Banco de la Republica has lowered the overnight lending
rate 1.25 percentage points since June to 4 percent as economic
growth waned and consumer prices rose at the slowest pace in
almost three years.  The peso depreciated 0.2 percent to 1,802.23 per  U.S.
dollar . It has declined 1.9 percent this year as the government
and central bank announced increased dollar purchases to stem a
rally that sent the peso to a 17-month intraday high on Jan. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  