-- Credit Structured Notes Drawing Pension Fund Investors, BNP Says
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-02-22T10:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/credit-structured-notes-drawing-pension-fund-investors-bnp-says.html
Pension funds are among new
investors in  Europe  buying structured notes tied to the debt of
companies and governments, according to  BNP Paribas SA. (BNP)   France’s largest bank sold about 20 million euros ($26.7
million) of credit-linked notes to pension funds this year, said
Denis Gardrat, the head of European credit structuring at BNP
Paribas in London. The securities have traditionally been bought
by private banks, he said.  Credit-linked notes, which tend to have higher yields and
tailored maturities that may not be available in the  bond
market , are drawing interest from new investors as companies
from the riskiest to the most creditworthy pay close to  record-
low  rates for debt.  “Cash bond investors who have traditionally shied away
from synthetic credit products are turning to alternatives, such
as credit-linked notes, for the first time,” said Charles Kermisch, a director of European credit and liquidity operations
Credit Suisse Group AG in  London .  The securities, though suited to so-called buy-and-hold
investors such as private wealth managers, are too illiquid for
larger asset managers that trade more actively, said Wolfgang Kuhn, the London-based head of pan-European fixed income at
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which oversees the equivalent of
$314.3 billion.  The notes also provide access to the credit derivatives
market for pension investors, said Petteri Vaarnanen, head of
fixed income at Espoo, Finland-based Tapiola Mutual Pension
Insurance Co. “CLNs offer flexibility, and you can create
bespoke structures where specific needs can be taken into
account,” he said.  Credit-linked notes have been popular among private banks
and wealthy individuals who may not be able to buy derivatives
such as credit-default swaps. Investors suffer losses in the
event of a default by the bank issuing the securities or the
linked entity, whether a company or sovereign.  Banks led by  Germany ’s DZ Bank AG and Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg sold $6.6 billion of credit-linked notes this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  