-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Decline; Whirlpool Sells $500 Million Debt
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-02-22T21:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-german-business-confidence-climbs.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined for the first time in three days as business
confidence in  Germany  soared to a 10-month high.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 2
basis points to a mid-price of 86.4 basis points at 4:11 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The Ifo institute’s German business climate index, which
jumped the most since July 2010, helped bolster confidence that
the euro-area economy is recovering, easing investor concern
that a global slowdown will constrain companies’ ability to
repay debt. Investors now are awaiting the outcome of Italian
elections starting Feb. 24 in which Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
austerity policies have drawn opposition from candidates
including former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi .  “German data is a big cause of some cheer in the market,
and there is some tepid optimism ahead of the Italian
elections,” Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC, which
oversees about $250 million, said in a telephone interview.
“Investors are hoping that Berlusconi will not take control of
the senate, which may affect austerity measures.”  Bond Sales  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  Sales of corporate bonds in the U.S. are decelerating after
a record start to the year, as investor demand is curbed by the
prospect of rising interest rates.  Offerings this month of $74.5 billion compare with $128.1
billion in the corresponding period of January and $108.5
billion in the first 22 days of February 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell from an almost two-week high, declining 11.1
basis points to 435.9 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s largest appliance maker,
raised $500 million in a bond offering that included its first
30-year debt in almost three decades.  The company issued equal $250 million portions of 3.7
percent, 10-year debt that yields 175 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries and 5.15 percent securities due in
2043 that pay 200 more than benchmarks, Bloomberg data show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt narrowed 0.2 basis point to 503.1 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s . A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  