-- Cypriots Weigh Economy, Terms for Bailout in Feb. 24 Election
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2013-02-22T13:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/cypriots-weigh-economy-terms-for-bailout-in-feb-24-election.html
Following is a summary of key facts
about Cyprus, which holds the final round of elections for a new
president on Feb. 24. The president will be called upon to sign
an international bailout agreement aimed at preventing a
financial collapse in Cyprus.  Nicos Anastasiades, leader of Cyprus’s main opposition Disy
party, will compete against Communist party-backed Stavros Malas
after no candidate secured an absolute majority in the Feb. 17
contest.  Candidates:  * Anastasiades, 66, is a lawyer and lawmaker and received
45.5 percent of the vote on Feb. 17. Disy is a member of the
European  People’s Party  as is German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
 Christian Democratic Union .  * Malas, 45, was a health minister from Aug. 2011 to Oct.
2012 in the government of current President Demetris Christofias. He is backed by Christofias’s Progressive Party of
the Working People. Holder of a degree in genetics from
 University College London , Malas was a researcher for seven
years at the Medical Research Council of  Imperial College
London . He received 26.9 percent of the vote on Feb. 17.  *The last opinion polls before the Feb. 17 vote indicated
Anastasiades would beat Malas in a second round face-off between
the two. Publishing of new opinion polls in Cyprus is prohibited
from a week before the first round vote.  *Polls close at 6 p.m. local time (4 p.m. in  London ) and
exit polls are scheduled for the same time.  Stance on bailout terms:  *Both presidential candidates support Cyprus’s request to
receive international aid after the nation’s banks sought state
aid. Banks, such as  Bank of Cyprus Plc  and  Cyprus Popular Bank
Pcl (CPB) , lost 4.5 billion euros ($6 billion) in  Greece ’s debt
restructuring last year, part of a second international rescue
for that country. The amount corresponds to around 25 percent of
Cypriot output, while no other European Union member state
suffered a loss of even 1 percent, according to Cyprus Finance
Minister Vassos Shiarly.  On state asset Sales:  *Current President Christofias’s opposition to selling
state-owned and semi-public companies to restore debt
sustainability has held up an international rescue for Cyprus.
Anastasiades has said state asset sales are something he could
agree to only if necessary. Malas opposes privatizations.  On gas:  *Anastasiades and Malas say future state revenue from
natural gas deposits should be used for developing the
hydrocarbon industry, investing for future generations and
repaying Cyprus’s debt, in line with recommendations from euro
area ministers and the  International Monetary Fund , which will
provide Cyprus with an international rescue.  Cyprus facts:  *Cyprus is the third-smallest economy in the euro area.  *The island has been divided since 1974 when  Turkey  invaded
following a coup aimed at joining the nation with Greece.  *It’s still divided today between internationally-
recognized Republic Of Cyprus and self-declared Turkish Republic
of  Northern Cyprus , recognized only by Turkey.  *The  United Nations  controls the buffer zone between the
two parts of island.  *Cyprus joined the EU in 2004 after a UN plan to reunite
the island was rejected by a majority of Greek Cypriots in a
referendum. EU benefits and obligations are only applied in the
Republic of Cyprus.  *Cyprus and Malta adopted the euro in 2008 becoming the
14th and 15th members.  *The government forecasts the economy will contract 3.5
percent this year and 1.3 percent in 2014. The government
forecasts unemployment will peak at 14.2 percent next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  