-- Danica Patrick’s Daytona Finish Means More to Nascar Than Start
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/danica-patrick-s-daytona-finish-means-more-to-nascar-than-start.html
Danica Patrick’s pole position for
tomorrow’s Daytona 500 has brought the world’s top stock-car
racing circuit plenty of attention. She needs to win the race to
give the sport a boost.  “These last few years have not been the best,”  Jim Andrews , senior vice president of content strategy at IEG, a
sponsorship consultant, said in a telephone interview.  Patrick becoming the first woman to post the fastest
qualifying time for one of Nascar’s top-series races won’t be
enough to offset declining attendance and television ratings
that have reached a plateau, Andrews said.  “If she wins, that may be enough, but there’s a big
difference between winning the pole and winning the race,” he
said. “It’s a small step. If we’re really going to see her
emerge as a superstar in racing and attract new fans, you’ve got
to start with an actual race win first.”  Patrick, 30, took the first starting position for the race
by posting the fastest qualifying lap of 45.817 seconds on Feb.
17 on the 2 1/2-mile track at Daytona International Speedway in
 Daytona Beach ,  Florida .  It’s the best qualifying position for a woman in Sprint Cup
history, eclipsing a pair of ninth-place starts by Janet Guthrie
in 1977. Guthrie started 18th in the 1980 Daytona 500, the
previous best start for a woman at the stock-car league’s
marquee event, dubbed “The Great American Race.”  Nascar has enjoyed a massive amount of publicity already
because of Patrick, said Steve Phelps, the sport’s chief
marketing officer.  “It’s been fantastic,” he said through a spokesman. “It
takes us outside of sports and brings us to other areas as
well.”  Pole Position  Patrick previously earned a pole position in Nascar’s
second-tier Nationwide Series, as did Shawna Robinson in 1994.
She is the only woman to lead the Indianapolis 500 and the only
one to win an IndyCar Series event, for open-wheel racers.  In 10 previous Sprint Cup races, Patrick’s best finish is
17th. She has one top-five finish in 58 career starts on the
Nationwide Series.  The native of Roscoe,  Illinois , made her first Daytona 500
start last year, qualifying 29th and finishing 38th after her
car was damaged in a second-lap crash. Patrick also claimed the
pole position for last year’s Nationwide Series season-opening
race at Daytona and finished 38th.  That experience will serve her well, Andy Petree, a former
Nascar driver and crew chief who now works as an analyst for
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN, said on a media conference call.  “She’s got a big advantage here,” Petree said. “I think
this is one of her best tracks to really shine and to have a
legitimate shot at winning. To say she’s a favorite, I wouldn’t
say that, but she is on the pole, she’s got a chance to win.”  Longshot Bet  Patrick is a long shot, according to Las Vegas oddsmakers.  She has 40-1 odds of winning the season-opening race,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book. Twenty other
drivers in the 43-car field have better odds of winning than
Patrick, who made 10 starts in Sprint Cup events a year ago in
her full-time Nascar debut.  Patrick said that inspires her.  “When pressure’s on, when the spotlight is on, I do feel
like it ultimately ends up becoming some of my better moments,
better races, better results,” she said.  The last driver to win the Daytona 500 from the pole
position was Dale Jarrett in 2000. Jeff Gordon also won it from
the pole in 1999 and qualified second alongside Patrick for this
year’s race.  Gordon’s Support  Patrick has earned respect among many veteran drivers.  “For me it’s not about the color of your skin or your
gender, it’s about your abilities,” Gordon, 41, a four-time Cup
Series champion, told reporters in Daytona. “You have to prove
that. Danica’s a talented race car driver. I love people that
are willing to take chances and challenge themselves.”  Fans and reporters haven’t focused only on her driving
skills.  Patrick is dating another driver, Ricky Stenhouse Jr. At a
Feb. 14 media event, the first 19 questions posed to Patrick
were about their relationship, even after she said she would
only answer race-related questions. Patrick, who filed for
divorce from her husband, Paul Hospenthal, in January, answered
them all.  “I feel happy,” Patrick told reporters. “I am enjoying
my life. It makes me smile to talk about him.”  When it comes to selling souvenirs, Patrick is making
Nascar smile.  Patrick Merchandise  Sales of Patrick-related merchandise on Nascar’s website
ranked eighth in 2012 and were up 100 percent from 2011,
according to figures provided by the circuit. It declined to
provide sales numbers. Since winning the pole position, Patrick
products on Fanatics.com, a retailer of licensed sports
merchandise, are up more than sixfold compared with sales for
the month of January, the company said, also declining to
provide figures.  Even with the increase in memorabilia sales, Patrick’s
fulltime move to Nascar from IndyCar Series racing in 2011
hasn’t been enough to boost flagging attendance figures.  Ticket revenue at Daytona-based  International Speedway (ISCA) 
Corp., Nascar’s largest track operator, was $136 million in
2012, down 6 percent from 2011 and 42 percent from a high of
$236 million in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company’s revenue has declined for five straight years.  Since 2008, seating capacity at its tracks has been reduced
by 16 percent to meet demand and project “favorable optics” on
television, the company said in January. Dan Houser,
International Speedway’s chief financial officer, said on a Jan.
24 conference call that the decline was mostly due to the
economy.  ‘Great Boost’  Regardless of ticket sales and attendance, Patrick’s
competitors said they know when they see history in the making
and are happy to be part of it.  “It’s obviously a big moment, a great boost for the
sport,” Gordon said. “It’s awesome. I’m glad I didn’t win the
pole, we would have messed that story all up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  