-- Danica Patrick Racing Helps GM Spur Urgency: Cars
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-02-22T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/danica-patrick-racing-helps-gm-spur-urgency-cars.html
When the Daytona 500 starts this
weekend with  Danica Patrick  in the pole position driving her
 Chevrolet  SS,  General Motors Co. (GM)  will be seeking something more
than a winner’s trophy: adding a greater sense of urgency to GM.  Mark Reuss , GM’s North America president since December
2009, is seeding the automaker’s racing operations with
engineers who spend time helping Chevy and Cadillac racing
teams, eventually rotating back into product development. Race
on Sunday, engineer better cars on Monday.  “Every week you’ve got to go put what you did on the track
and try to win,” Reuss said in an interview last weekend at
Florida’s Daytona International Speedway, where GM revealed the
production version of the new rear-wheel-drive Chevy SS.
“That’s an urgency that we need in this company.”  The SS is one of about 20 vehicles GM is introducing in the
U.S. this year as it seeks to freshen showrooms that have grown
stale since the company’s 2009 bankruptcy reorganization. GM’s
U.S. market share fell to an 88-year-low in 2012 as  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  rebounded from 2011 production problems with 19 new or
refreshed vehicles.  GM needs personnel who aren’t wedded to traditional long-
term product development cycles,  Dave Sullivan , an analyst with
AutoPacific Inc., said in a telephone interview.  “They need people who can address issues in more rapid
fashion than they have in the past,” he said. “Vehicles like
the Malibu could benefit from that kind of mentality.”  Honda, Ford  GM isn’t alone in looking to racing to better its product
development staff.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Ford (F)  Motor Co. and other
automakers have long been active in racing. Ford traces its
motor sports roots to a  1901 race  won by  Henry Ford . Honda
founder Soichiro Honda would say, “If Honda does not race,
there is no Honda.”  GM founder Billy Durant used his association with a racecar
driver named Louis-Joseph Chevrolet to create the Chevrolet
Motor Car Co. in 1911, which eventually became part of General
Motors.  What’s new is the interest by Reuss, an engineer by
training and a longtime racing enthusiast, in making sure GM
executives see the experience as a career boost and rotating
potential high-performers in and out of the racing teams for
leadership development.  GM’s racing effort has traditionally been under the
company’s marketing operations and separated from product
development. GM used its ties to popular drivers such as Jimmie Johnson, Jeff Gordon and Patrick, a former IndyCar star, to
promote product.  ‘Bad Stigma’  “It didn’t used to be an incentive because once people
went there, they never came back,” Reuss said. “They couldn’t
leave because they were the ‘race person.’ So it had a bad
stigma to it.”  Reuss said he wanted to change that and, within the past
year or so, has started an effort to rotate people through the
program.  Twenty-four-year GM veteran Chris Berube was assigned to
the automaker’s IndyCar racing effort last March after working
as the lead development engineer on the Cadillac CTS-V and ATS
cars.  “The CTS-V program, the ATS program, those are three
years, four years long,” he said. “That’s like four seasons
wrapped in one. You tend to need to make decisions probably with
less information in racing and more on gut feeling and
experience, but you also get the answer right away whether it
was the right decision or not. I’d like to take that back to the
production side.”  Honda’s Experience  Honda, among the most active manufacturers in auto and
motorcycle racing, doesn’t compete in Nascar, instead focusing
on IndyCar and American Le Mans circuits in the U.S., said T.E.
McHale, a spokesman for Honda’s motor sports group.  “For most companies, racing is largely a marketing
exercise,” he said. “For Honda, it’s a way to develop our
people and to learn how to make better products.”  GM provides program management for the racing programs,
Mark Kent, director of racing for Chevrolet and Cadillac, said.  “A lot of these engineers we’re bringing in for the most
part are managing the racing programs; they’re broadening their
management skills,” he said. “Through all of that, it’s a
great proving ground to train young engineers because they get
that sense of urgency.”  The GM engineering rotation is in place in some series
where the company participates while not yet extended to Nascar,
where racecars are based on GM, Ford and Toyota production
models. GM says it probably will add Nascar to the program.  At  Daytona Beach , Reuss revealed the new SS that he intends
to sell in U.S. showrooms as a so-called halo car to attract
people to the Chevrolet brand.  Aussie Manufactured  The SS, which is based upon a platform from GM’s Holden
unit, will be built in  Australia  and is expected to have 415
horsepower and get 415 pound-feet of torque, accelerating from
zero to 60 miles (97 kilometers) per hour in about 5 seconds,
the company said.  The SS will join a redesigned Corvette in showrooms this
year along a new Silverado pickup and Impala sedan.  GM’s U.S. sales of cars and light trucks rose 3.7 percent
last year, less than the industrywide gain of 13 percent. As a
result, GM’s share of the U.S. market slid to 17.9 percent, the
lowest since 1924.  Reuss’s racing enthusiasm includes being licensed for Grand
American Road Racing and showing video he has taken at the
Nurburgring racetrack in  Germany  with the Cadillac ATS.  Daytona Scene  Last weekend, he climbed down onto the Daytona speedway as
racecars prepared to start the Sprint Unlimited race, part of
the buildup to the Feb. 24 Daytona 500. Wearing a Corvette
racing jacket, Reuss walked through the crowd and under the rope
line to greet the drivers. He paused for a photo with Chevy
driver Dale Earnhardt Jr. and shook hands with Richard Childress, one of the Nascar team owners who races Chevys.
Before the race, Reuss talked about how he looked forward to
watching the race trackside and feeling the exhilaration of the
start.  “We’re going to take everything out of this that I can
possibly get out of it -- branding, engineers, people,” Reuss
said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Daytona Beach,  Florida , at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  