-- Djibouti Ruling Party Seen Maintaining Grip on Power in Vote
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-02-22T10:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/djibouti-ruling-party-seen-maintaining-grip-on-power-in-vote-1-.html
Djibouti’s ruling party will
probably retain its majority in parliamentary elections today,
while electoral law changes may give the opposition a greater
say in the nation’s affairs, said analysts including Aly Verjee
of the Rift Valley Institute.  Lawmakers in November approved a proposal to make 20
percent of the country’s 65 parliamentary seats electable on a
proportional representation basis. That may benefit the six
opposition parties that have unified under the banner of the
Union for National Salvation, or USN, Verjee said in an e-mailed
response to questions on Feb. 20.  “Despite weakness in the opposition parties the new
electoral formula should result in some parliamentary
representation for other parties,” he said. “The ruling
coalition will likely retain a large majority.”  Djibouti, which hosts the largest U.S. and French military
bases in  Africa , has a $1.1 billion economy that relies on
services related to its strategic location on the Red Sea, one
of the world’s busiest shipping lanes. The nation’s port
provides the only access to the sea for neighboring  Ethiopia ,
Africa’s second-most populous nation.  35-Year Rule  President Ismail Omar Guelleh’s People’s Rally for Progress
party has ruled the Horn of Africa nation since it gained
independence from  France  in 1977. Guelleh changed the
constitution in 2010 to allow him to extend his rule to a third
term. A year later he won presidential elections with 80 percent
of the vote following a campaign marked by opposition protests
to demand conditions be put in place for a fair vote.  Polls opened at 6:30 a.m. and will close at 6 p.m., with
initial results expected tonight, Daher Ahmed Farah, a spokesman
for the USN, said in a phone interview from the Djibouti
capital, Djibouti City. He said the opposition had witnessed
irregularities at polling stations.  “We have already seen some fraud,” Farah said. “Many
soldiers are illegally voting for the regime several times.”  Minister of Interior and Decentralization Yacin Elmi Bouh
wasn’t immediately available when Bloomberg called his mobile
phone seeking comment today, while a phone call to Foreign
Minister Mahmoud Ali Youssouf didn’t connect.  Djibouti, with a population of about 906,000 people, is
smaller than the U.S. state of  Massachusetts . Economic growth in
Djibouti may accelerate to 5 percent in 2013 from 4.8 percent
the year before, boosted by trade links with Ethiopia, increased
port activity, construction and foreign investment, according to
the International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  