-- DNA Privacy Gets First U.S. Supreme Court Test in Rape Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-02-22T11:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/dna-privacy-gets-first-u-s-supreme-court-test-in-rape-case.html
When Alonzo King was arrested for
assault in 2009 after pointing a shotgun at several people,
authorities had no reason to think he was also a rapist.  Then officials swabbed his cheek at the Wicomico County,
 Maryland , booking facility and ran his DNA through a nationwide
database. The check linked King to an unsolved 2003 rape.  Now King’s conviction for the rape is set for argument next
week at the U.S.  Supreme Court , which will consider whether
Maryland is violating the Constitution by collecting DNA samples
from people arrested for serious crimes before they’re
convicted. The court’s ruling, due by June, will be its first on
the privacy of genetic information and will determine the fate
of laws in at least 25 states that allow DNA collection at
arrest.  “If the Supreme Court rules in favor of Maryland in this
case, there will be no real limits on when the government can
collect DNA,” said Jennifer Lynch, a lawyer with the San
Francisco-based Electronic Frontier Foundation, which opposes
the collection laws. She said that would be a “huge privacy
invasion.”  Maryland argued in court  papers  that DNA gives police an
invaluable investigative tool -- the “gold standard of forensic
identification.” Backers of the practice point to cases where
DNA collection upon arrest might have prevented additional
crimes.  Student Murdered  One of those advocates is Jayann Sepich, whose daughter,
Katie, was raped and murdered in August 2003, when she was a 22-
year-old graduate student at New  Mexico  State University. Police
weren’t able to identify the killer, Gabriel Adrian Avila, until
December 2006, after he was convicted and imprisoned for
breaking into a house with a knife in an unrelated crime.  Jayann Sepich says Avila’s DNA could have been collected in
November 2003, when he was arrested for the break-in. While
Avila was convicted in 2004, he was released on bail before
beginning his sentence and fled to Mexico. Not until Avila was
arrested again in 2006 was his DNA tested, connecting him to
Katie Sepich’s murder.  “We got a bad guy and put him in prison,” said Sepich.
“We could have done it three years sooner.”  Sepich now works full-time to  advocate  for DNA laws. She
helped persuade the New Mexico legislature to enact what became
known as Katie’s Law, allowing for collection from anyone
arrested for a violent felony.  Effective Use  Privacy advocates say there are more effective ways to get
DNA to solve crimes that don’t raise constitutional concerns.  Police currently collect DNA evidence from only a fraction
of crime scenes, says Erin Murphy, a professor at  New York 
University School of Law who specializes in forensic evidence.
One study found that physical evidence, including DNA, was
collected and submitted for testing in only 32 percent of U.S.
rape cases and even less frequently in burglaries, robberies and
assaults.  “We could have the biggest database in the world, and if
we don’t have crime-scene samples of good quality to compare
them to, we’re not going to solve crimes,” Murphy said.  States could also add to their databases legally by
collecting more samples from those who have been convicted of
crimes, losing some of their rights, Murphy said. Court records
indicate King had at least six prior convictions. The state
could have collected his DNA by using his convictions, rather
than the arrest, as the legal basis, she said.  “It’s not the case that we’ve maxed out at what we can
achieve with convicted offenders,” Murphy said.  Maryland Law  Until 2008, Maryland collected DNA samples only from people
who were convicted of a felony. The state amended its law in
2008 to include anyone arrested for a crime of violence or
burglary.  After taking a sample, Maryland ships it to a laboratory to
create a profile -- a string of numbers almost always unique to
that person. The state then submits the profile to CODIS, a
national database maintained by the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation. The database allows comparison of the new profile
to unknown DNA on file.  Maryland’s highest court threw out King’s rape conviction
last year, saying the state had violated the Fourth Amendment
ban on unreasonable searches. The court pointed to the “vast
genetic treasure map” the state would be acquiring for each
person arrested.  Identification Only  Maryland says it uses the DNA it collects only for
identification purposes. The state also points to safeguards in
the law, including requirements that samples be destroyed, with
the records expunged, if a judge throws out the charges or the
person is acquitted.  The Obama administration is backing Maryland in the case,
which will be heard Feb. 26, likening DNA collection to
fingerprinting -- a practice that is now routine procedure at
intake centers, even though the Supreme Court has never ruled on
its constitutionality.  “A DNA profile is only a list of numbers,” U.S. Solicitor
General Donald Verrilli argued in court  papers . “Like a
traditional fingerprint, it exposes nothing about a person’s
physical characteristics, propensities or medical conditions.”  That’s not the case, according to two genetic scientists
backing King at the Supreme Court, Robert Nussbaum of the
University of California San Francisco Medical Center and Sara
H. Katsanis of  Duke University . DNA profiles can already
disclose family relationships and indicate the prospect of some
medical conditions, such as Down syndrome, they say in court
papers.  In the future, “advances in technology present risks that
DNA profiling will become even more intrusive and will reveal
more personal information about individuals,” Nussbaum and
Katsanis argued.  Reasonable Search  King’s Supreme Court lawyer, Kannon Shanmugam, says
Maryland and the Obama administration are seeking to short-
circuit the usual requirement that police have reason to suspect
a particular person before conducting a search.  While the Supreme Court has carved out exceptions to that
rule -- giving officers more leeway to search parolees and
letting police frisk a person for weapons at the time of arrest
-- none of those exceptions apply to DNA, Shanmugam says.  “If the state’s reasoning in this case were accepted, it
would be difficult if not impossible to resist the conclusion
that taking DNA from ordinary citizens would be permissible,”
said Shanmugam, a Washington lawyer at Williams & Connolly LLP.  Recent Supreme Court history suggests that argument may get
a skeptical hearing. The court last year upheld the use of strip
searches of newly arrested people, dividing 5-4 along
ideological lines. And Chief Justice  John Roberts  may have
dropped a hint about his leanings the Maryland DNA case in July,
when he ruled that the state could continue collecting samples
until the Supreme Court resolves the case.  “Collecting DNA from individuals arrested for violent
felonies provides a valuable tool for investigating unsolved
crimes,” Roberts wrote, “thereby helping to remove violent
offenders from the general population.”  The case is Maryland v. King, 12-207.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  