-- Do-It-Yourself Tests Enable Cancer Diagnosis in Bathroom
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-02-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/do-it-yourself-tests-enable-cancer-diagnosis-in-bathroom.html
Mode Diagnostics Ltd.  wants to bring
the medical laboratory into your bathroom -- with a mobile
phone-size device that can detect signs of cancer right before
your eyes.  The do-it-yourself test market, estimated at $2 billion to
$3 billion globally, is expanding 20 percent a year as new
checks for colon and prostate cancer, HIV, chlamydia, stomach
ulcer, sperm count and drug abuse take their place on pharmacy
shelves alongside standards such as blood-sugar monitors for
diabetics and pregnancy tests, according to Alan Hirzel, a
London-based partner at consulting company  Bain & Co .  Behind the growth is a shift in behavior as consumers
become more aware of the signs and symptoms of disease and scour
websites for tools to diagnose themselves. That trend may
benefit Mode and boost shares of  IP Group Plc (IPO) , which owns 45.7
percent of the closely held Scottish company.  “Up until this point, medicine and health have been either
treatment at the hospital or at the physician’s office,” Mode
Chief Executive Officer Paul J. Heaney said in an interview.
“The third place is now the home.”  Mode expects to begin selling its colon-cancer test, the
first in a series of do-it-yourself medical checks it’s
developing, directly to patients for about 25 pounds ($38)
through online retailers such as Amazon.com Inc. in the second
half of the year, Heaney said. The company is awaiting European
regulatory permission this year, Heaney said.  Quick Results  The test, which involves inserting a stool sample into a
canister containing a solution, takes less than three minutes to
produce results, while patients may have to wait weeks after
mailing specimens to a laboratory, he said. The company’s
product is an improved digital version that requires fewer steps
than older at-home colon tests. Patients who receive a positive
result need to see their physician for confirmation, Heaney
said.  Heaney expects Mode will receive clearance, allowing the
colon cancer test to be sold in European Union countries by the
end of the year, followed by a decision by the FDA in 12 to 18
months. It is also working on adapting the device’s
electrochemical biosensor for use in chlamydia and other
diseases.  ‘Huge Appetite’  “There is a huge appetite for self-diagnostics” from
people who want discretion or are anxious about hereditary
conditions, Hirzel said in an interview. “It has the potential
to reduce the cost of care and make health care more
effective.”  1st Health Products Ltd., a U.K. provider of self-
diagnostic tests that was taken private last year in a
 management buyout  from  ValiRx Plc (VAL) , sells 10,000 to 12,000 tests
a year, about 16 percent through  websites . Direct sales are
growing about 15 percent, according to Patrick Kirby, a director
and co-owner.  “Hospitals have realized they can’t do everything and
patients are using the Internet,” Kirby said in an interview.
“It will grow if we get the right tests.”  1st Health Products’ top sellers are its tests for
chlamydia, a biological marker that may indicate prostate
cancer, urinary-tract infections, colon polyps that may signal
cancer and commonly abused drugs including cocaine, amphetamines
and cannabis, Kirby said. Prices range from 10 pounds to 15
pounds and most of the tests check for the presence of an
antibody or antigen that causes a color change.  Corporate Customers  Women buy half or more of the company’s tests, including
its prostate-specific antigen screen for a cancer that only
affects men, Kirby said. Customers for the drug screen include a
large bank, which Kirby declined to identify; others are schools
and parents of teens struggling with drug habits.  Mode may pitch products to insurers who want to reduce the
cost of treating life-threatening illnesses discovered at a late
stage, Heaney said. The company has hired a representative in
 China  to establish a presence in that market, he said.  The prospect of more testing and the possibility of an
uptick in false positive results -- which suggest disease that
isn’t ultimately supported by further testing -- may scare away
some payers, said analyst Vadim Alexandre of Daniel Stewart &
Co. in London.  “You don’t want a whole bunch of tests on the market that
are sending people with false positives to clinics,” Alexandre
said.  Still, aging populations and spiraling medical costs are
forcing governments to explore different ways of delivering
health care, made possible with new technology, said Patrick
Flochel, global head of Ernst & Young’s pharmaceutical practice.  “Governments have an interest in financing prevention,”
Flochel said, suggesting that devices like Mode’s may eventually
be reimbursed.  Life-threatening Diagnoses  Regulators require reliability of new screens to be
comparable to old-style laboratory tests, testing companies
said. Mode said its Measure device for  colon cancer  has 98
percent accuracy and 1st Health Products and closely held  Care
Diagnostica  Produktions say their products’ sensitivity in
picking up signs of disease is about 90 percent.  The biggest challenge for at-home tests in  Europe  is
getting customers to pay for them when tests are offered at the
doctors’ office for no additional charge, said Kim Scheuringer,
chief executive officer of Moellersdorf, Austria-based Care
Diagnostica, which sells at-home tests for conditions including
 colon cancer  and chlamydia.  The companies have also had to address the impact that a
positive result may have on a customer who receives a life-
threatening diagnosis at home alone rather than in the presence
of a doctor or a nurse who can counsel them. Home HIV tests are
illegal in the U.K. under a 1992 law that was intended to ensure
accuracy and provide support to patients, according to the
 Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency .  HIV Test  The  Food and Drug Administration  approved the U.S.’s first
rapid at-home saliva test for HIV, OraQuick by  OraSure
Technologies Inc. (OSUR)  of Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania , in July. The
company agreed to provide a 24-hour support hotline and the FDA
 concluded  the screen would identify 44,000 new cases of HIV and
prevent 4,000 transmissions of the virus in its first year of
use.  1st Health Products is seeking to raise $500,000 to $1
million to expand its range of tests and distribution of its
products, Kirby said. His long-term goal is to develop the
company over the next three to four years and then possibly sell
it, he said.  Mode is mulling over proposals from prospective
manufacturers and will need to raise about 5 million pounds this
year to get the product off the ground, Heaney said. It should
quickly become profitable, he said. In addition to IP Group,
which invests in new businesses based at U.K. universities,
Mode’s other investors include the  Scottish Enterprise ,  Parkwalk
Advisors Ltd.  and  Kelvin Capital .  Heaney said a licensing deal or initial public offering may
eventually occur, or the company could be sold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in  London  at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  