-- Health Premium Increases Damped by Greater U.S. Scrutiny
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-02-22T20:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/health-premium-increases-damped-by-greater-u-s-scrutiny.html
The number of requests by health
insurers for double-digit rate increases fell about 41
percentage points since the end of 2009, according to a U.S.
report that cited the success of the health-care overhaul.  The data today by the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services showed one-third of requests last year asked states to
approve premium increases of more than 10 percent. In 2010,
three-quarters of petitions sought double-digit jumps, according
to the report, which compared 15 states in 2012 with 11 in 2010.  The 2010 Affordable Care Act requires companies such as
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the country’s largest health insurer,
to have premium increase requests of 10 percent or more reviewed
by state or federal regulators, a provision the U.S. said has
kept prices in check.  America’s Health Insurance Plans , the main
industry lobbying group, said the Obama administration may be
taking too much credit, citing already changing behaviors by
insurers, hospitals and doctors.  “Health insurance premiums are not set arbitrarily,”
 Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for the Washington-based insurers
group, said in an e-mail. “They are developed using established
actuarial principles that take into account a variety of
factors, including increases in medical costs, changes in the
covered population, and new benefit mandates and regulations.”  Health plans “are partnering with hospitals and doctors”
to change payment in ways that “reward quality and better
health outcomes,” he said. They are also helping patients with
chronic conditions such as diabetes better care for themselves,
and are promoting more preventive care, he said.  Unprecedented Scrutiny  A similar  study  in October by the  Menlo Park , California-
based nonprofit group  Kaiser Family Foundation  found “reasons
to believe that the ACA may have had an effect” on reducing
premium increases. The Obama administration today said the law
meant that for the first time, insurers in all states couldn’t
raise rates without some degree of accountability.  “The Affordable Care Act brings an unprecedented level of
scrutiny and transparency to health insurance rate increases,”
the Health and Human Services Department said in its report. The
law “contributed to a reduction in the rate of increase in
premiums,” it said.  The Obama administration said separately in a regulatory
filing today that full implementation of provisions in the
health law next year that require insurers to cover anyone who
seeks a policy won’t cause large premium increases, as some
insurers have predicted.  Aetna Inc. (AET)  Chief Executive Officer Mark Bertolini warned of “premium rate shock,” while speaking at a
December conference with analysts.  Sick Customers  Starting in January 2014, insurers must cover anyone who
wants to buy a policy, regardless of their health. New
marketplaces called exchanges under construction in every state
are supposed to sell coverage to people who don’t get it through
work. The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates that 27 million
Americans who would otherwise be uninsured will eventually gain
coverage under the law.  Bertolini said in December that new taxes imposed by the
law and its insurance reforms, including the prohibition against
denying coverage to sick people and limits on what plans can
charge old people compared to the young, will cause premiums to
as much as double for some customers.  Overhead Costs  In a final rule issued today enacting the insurance
changes, the government said the law will lower administrative
and overhead costs for insurers because applications will be
easier to process and they won’t have to pay for medical
underwriting, now used to determine whether sick people should
be offered coverage and at what price.  “This, in turn, could contribute to lower premium rates,”
the government said.  Health insurers lost their fight today on the issue of how
much they can charge older customers, called age rating. The
health law prohibits plans from charging older customers more
than three times what they charge younger ones, beginning next
year.  The  insurance industry  has argued this may mean a 29
percent premium increase for 21- to 29-year-olds, who tend to be
healthier and thus cheaper to insure than older people. Insurers
had asked the Obama administration to phase-in the requirement
or delay it, to avoid a sudden spike in young Americans’
premiums on Jan. 1. The government provided no such relief in
its rule.  “This increases the likelihood that younger, healthier
people forgo purchasing insurance until they are sick or
injured,”  Karen Ignagni , president and CEO of Zirkelbach’s
group, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  