-- ECB Says Banks to Repay Less Than Forecast of Second Loan
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-22T14:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/ecb-says-banks-to-repay-61-1-billion-euros-of-second-3-year-loan.html
The  European Central Bank  said banks
will repay only half the amount of emergency loans economists
forecast, indicating financial institutions remain wary of
lending to each other.  Some 356 banks will hand back 61.1 billion euros ($80.5
billion) of the ECB’s second three-year loan on Feb. 27, the
first opportunity for early repayment, the central bank said in
a statement today. That compares with a forecast of 122.5
billion euros in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The euro
fell almost half a cent after the report to $1.3157.  The ECB flooded banks with more than 1 trillion euros in
two three-year loans after money markets froze because of
Europe’s debt crisis. Banks have the option of repaying the
funds after a year. They returned more than forecast of the
first loan in January.  “Expectations after the initial repayment of the first
loan became exaggerated,” said Jan von Gerich, chief fixed-
income analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Helsinki. “The current
number shows much better how the banking sector is doing. We’re
seeing improvements, but it is a slow process.”  ECB Expectation  The ECB expected “quite a substantial” figure today,
council member  Ewald Nowotny  told reporters in Riga. Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure, commenting after the number was
published, said in Lisbon that “this is only the first
instalment of the possible repayment.”  The ECB said nine banks will repay a further 1.7 billion
euros from the  first  three-year Longer Term Refinancing
Operation next week. That takes the total amount of funds repaid
early to 212.3 billion euros, or 21 percent of the overall
amount lent. Banks can continue to repay the loans over coming
weeks.  “The ECB will welcome the repayment as long as banks make
it for the right reasons,” said  Nick Matthews , senior economist
at Nomura International Plc in  London . “If banks are
comfortable that they don’t need the money anymore or can get
funding in the market, it’s alright. The last thing you want,
though, is to see banks rushing to repay only to get into
trouble because they don’t have their funding in place.”  Caution Urged  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has urged financial institutions
to be responsible in determining repayment amounts.  They “must appropriately assess their funding situation,
their ability to provide new loans to the economy and their
resilience to shocks,” he said on Feb. 7. “We will closely
monitor conditions in the money market and their potential
impact on the stance of monetary policy.”  Interest rates  in the futures market surged last month
after banks repaid three-year funds for the first time. The rate
on three-month Euribor futures expiring in December 2013 rose as
high as 0.58 percent on Jan. 28, the most since July. It dropped
to as low as 0.31 percent after today’s data from 0.39 percent
yesterday.  Banks that have returned funds so far include Spanish
lenders Banco Santander SA, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
or BBVA, and  CaixaBank. (CABK)  Belgian, Portuguese and German banks
have also handed money back.  Collateral Change  The ECB approved the temporary use of credit claims as
collateral by seven euro-area member central banks ahead of the
second three-year operation last year. That provided as much as
70 billion euros of additional funding for Italian banks alone,
Fabrizio Saccomanni, director general of the  Bank of Italy , said
at the time.  The move allowed smaller banks in Ireland,  Spain ,  France ,
 Italy , Cyprus,  Austria  and  Portugal  with weaker collateral to
tap ECB funds, von Gerich said. Those banks may not yet be in a
position to take advantage of the improved environment in
financial markets, he said, adding “many banks are still very
reliant on ECB funding.”  The ECB still allows banks to borrow as much money as they
want against eligible collateral for periods of one week, one
month and three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  