-- Economists Warn Fed Risks Losing Control Amid Budget Deficits
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-02-22T15:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/economists-warn-fed-risks-losing-control-amid-budget-deficits.html
Four economists, including a former
Federal Reserve governor who has co-written research with
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, warned that losses from the central
bank’s more than $3 trillion  balance sheet  could lead to the Fed
losing control of monetary policy.  “The combination of a massively expanded central bank
balance sheet and an unsustainable public debt trajectory is a
mix that has the potential to substantially reduce the
flexibility of monetary policy,” the economists write. “This
mix could induce a bias toward slower exit or easier policy, and
be seen as the first step toward fiscal dominance. It could
thereby be the cause of longer-term inflation expectations and
raise the risk of inflation overall.”  The conclusion from economists, including Frederic Mishkin,
a governor at the central bank from 2006 to 2008 and an academic
collaborator with Bernanke before that, will be presented at the
U.S. Monetary Policy Forum in New York. Their paper serves as a
high-profile warning to an audience including Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren , Fed Governor Jerome Powell and St.
Louis Fed President James Bullard.  The central bank is currently purchasing $85 billion a
month of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, following
two previous rounds totaling $2.3 trillion, in an effort to
lower an  unemployment rate  stuck near 7.9 percent. Once the
economy strengthens, the central bank plans to unwind its
balance sheet by raising interest rates and selling many of the
assets acquired over the past four years.  Substantial Losses  The economists say that the Fed could incur substantial
losses that might occur when U.S. deficits are still high and
Congress and the White House have been unable to put fiscal
policy on a sustainable trajectory.  “This unfavorable fiscal arithmetic might tend to push the
Fed toward delaying its exit from the extraordinary easing
measures it has taken in recent years; it could even affect
decisions this year about how much further to expand the Fed’s
holdings of longer-term government securities,” the authors
said. “The Fed could cut its effective drain on the Treasury
significantly by putting off asset sales and delaying policy
rate increases. But such a response would presumably feed rising
inflation expectations.”  The U.S. Monetary Policy Forum is sponsored by the
Initiative on Global Markets at the University of Chicago Booth
School of Business.  In addition to Mishkin, now an economist at Columbia
University, the authors of the paper are David Greenlaw, chief
U.S. fixed income economist for Morgan Stanley; James D. Hamilton, a professor of economics at the University of
California in San Diego; Peter Hooper, chief economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  Bond Yields  Hooper and Greenlaw are both former Fed economists, while
Hamilton’s research on bond yields has been cited by Bernanke as
justification for the Fed’s policies.  The Federal Reserve recently released a paper showing that
the income it has traditionally earned from its policies could
disappear for years as interest rates rise. After paying its
expenses, the central bank returns any surplus to Treasury to
help fund the expenses of the U.S. government. In 2012, the Fed
returned $88.9 billion to taxpayers.  The Congressional Budget Office forecasts that the
government will run deficits averaging nearly $700 billion from
2014 to 2023 in its baseline scenario.  Fiscal Dominance  “The bottom line is that no matter how strong the
commitment of a central bank to an inflation target, fiscal
dominance can override it,” the authors of today’s paper
warned. “Without long-run fiscal sustainability, no central
bank will be able to keep inflation low and stable.”  Fiscal dominance refers to a situation in which a central
bank is forced to purchase government debt and finance deficits
through inflation. If the central bank does not do this,
interest rates will rise and the economy will contract and the
government could even default, leading to a crisis that would
cause an even worse contraction, the authors say. The central
bank “will in effect have little choice,” they write.  The Fed aims for 2 percent inflation in the longer term and
has said an outlook for inflation above 2.5 percent may prompt
it to raise interest rates. The Labor Department said yesterday
that prices rose 1.6 percent in January.  Investors in Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities expect
that price increases will accelerate in coming years. Inflation
will rise 2.5 percent per year, as measured by the  spread 
between nominal and inflation-protected securities.  “While fiscal dominance is not an immediate risk, there
are important elements in the current makeup of U.S. fiscal and
monetary policy that suggest increasing attention will be paid
to this risk in the years ahead,” the authors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  