-- Egypt Too Tense for April Election, ElBaradei Says
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-22T11:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/egypt-too-tense-for-april-election-elbaradei-says.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi’s
order for parliamentary elections to begin 27 April risks
worsening the country’s political crisis, opposition leader
Mohamed ElBaradei said.  The president issued a decree late yesterday under which
the four stages of balloting would end in late June, with the
new assembly holding its first session July 6. Mursi, who faces
a rift with some of his Islamist allies, had expressed hope that
the vote would end unrest that has led to sporadic violence and
thwarted an economic recovery.  “Holding the elections amid the persisting social tension
and fragility of state institutions and before reaching a
national consensus is irresponsible and will inflame the
situation,” ElBaradei, a Nobel laureate who led the
International Atomic Energy Agency, said on Twitter today.
“Mursi’s decision to go for parliamentary elections amid severe
societal polarization and eroding state authority is a recipe
for disaster.”  ElBaradei’s National Salvation Front, the broadest secular
group, has threatened to boycott elections unless voting is
delayed to allow tensions to ease, the economy to recover and
the constitution to be amended to reverse measures it says were
imposed by Islamists. Mursi, backed by the Muslim Brotherhood,
has resisted opposition calls for a national unity government.  IMF Agreement  Two years after the uprising that led to the ouster of
former President  Hosni Mubarak , the continuing tensions have
kept tourists and investors away, and foreign reserves are more
than 60 percent below their end-2010 level. The unrest has
resulted in the slowest pace in economic growth in two decades
and delayed a $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund
agreement. Egypt is in an economic “crisis” from which it
can’t recover without reaching a final accord with the IMF,
Planning and Investment Minister Ashraf El-Arabi said yesterday.  Protesters began gathering in Cairo and Port Said after
several opposition groups called for anti-government
rallies today, saying Mursi and the Brotherhood must be held to
account for crimes against Egyptians. The groups urged the
dismissal of the Mursi-appointed prosecutor-general and the
immediate release of detained political activists.  Organizers said the rallies are first step toward a
nationwide civil-disobedience campaign, drawing on continuing
protests in Alexandria and the Suez Canal cities of Ismailia and
Suez.  Mursi’s critics say the president, who became the country’s
first democratically elected civilian leader in June, has sought
to advance the interests of the Muslim Brotherhood while failing
to revive the economy or address social needs. The Brotherhood
said yesterday it doesn’t interfere in the affairs of the
presidency or other executive bodies.  Mursi also faced criticism from the Salafi Muslim Nour
Party, which has backed the call for a unity coalition, after he
dismissed one of its members as his environmental adviser.  The elections will be the first since the constitutional
court dissolved the lower house of parliament in June, and the
first full parliament seated under Mursi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  