-- Egypt Opposition Slams Mursi Vote Plan; Islamists Back It
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-22T19:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/egypt-opposition-slams-mursi-s-april-election-islamists-back-it.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi’s
call for parliamentary elections starting in April will worsen
the country’s political crisis, opposition leader  Mohamed ElBaradei  said, as Islamist groups backed the plan.  The president issued a decree late yesterday to hold a
four-stage election starting April 27 and ending in late June,
with the new assembly to meet on July 6. Mursi, who faces a rift
with some of his Islamist allies, had expressed hope that the
vote would end unrest that has led to sporadic violence and
thwarted an economic recovery.  “Holding the elections amid the persisting social tension
and fragility of state institutions and before reaching a
national consensus is irresponsible and will inflame the
situation,” ElBaradei, a Nobel laureate who led the
 International Atomic Energy Agency , said on Twitter today.  ElBaradei’s National Salvation Front, the broadest secular
group, has threatened to boycott elections unless voting is
delayed to allow tensions to ease, the economy to recover and
the constitution to be amended to reverse measures it says were
imposed by Islamists. Mursi, backed by the Muslim Brotherhood,
has resisted opposition calls for a national unity government.  Two years after the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak ,
unrest has kept tourists and investors away and left the economy
growing at the slowest pace in two decades.  Egypt  is in
“crisis” and can’t recover without a much-delayed $4.8 billion
International Monetary Fund loan accord, Planning and Investment
Minister Ashraf El-Arabi said yesterday.  ‘National Duty’  Islamist groups backed Mursi’s election decision. Essam El- Erian, deputy head of the Muslim Brotherhood’s political arm,
predicted that Islamists who took more than 70 percent of the
vote in the last parliamentary ballot will win again this time.  The parliament that emerged from that election, which
started in November 2011 and spread over five weeks, as
dissolved by Egypt’s top court in June last year, the same month
Mursi was elected.  The Salafi Nour Party, which has clashed with Mursi
recently after he dismissed one of its members as an adviser,
also expressed support. Elections “can be a way out of the
current political crisis” and participation is a “national
duty,” spokesman Nader Bakkar said by phone today. Nour
finished second last time behind the Brotherhood’s party.  Islamist Coalition  Various groups are in talks to form a “strong Islamist
electoral coalition,” Nasr Abdel Salam, head of the ultra-
conservative Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya’s political party, said by
phone today.  Mursi’s critics say the president, who became the country’s
first democratically elected civilian leader in June, has sought
to advance the interests of the Muslim Brotherhood while failing
to revive the economy or address social needs. Protests against
his rule have frequently led to outbreaks of violence, with more
than 50 people killed in clashes this year.  In Cairo and Port Said, protesters gathered for anti-
government rallies today, urging the dismissal of the Mursi-
appointed prosecutor-general and the immediate release of
detained political activists.  “What election is Mursi talking about?” said Ahmed
Ibrahim, one of thousands of anti-Mursi protesters said by phone
from Port Said today “We don’t want elections before people’s
demands are met. The president has lost his legitimacy.”  Organizers said the rallies are first step toward a
nationwide civil-disobedience campaign, drawing on continuing
protests in Alexandria and the Suez Canal cities of Ismailia and
Suez.  In the Nile Delta province of Al Gharbiya, police fired
shots in the air to disperse protesters who were trying to storm
the headquarters of the province’s  Security Directorate,
according to the official Middle East  News Agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  