-- Elan to Buy Back $1 Billion of Stock After Tysabri Sale
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-02-22T21:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/elan-to-buy-back-1-billion-of-shares-with-tysabri-proceeds-1-.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  plans to buy back $1
billion of stock, equal to 16 percent of the company’s market
value, after selling its stake in the Tysabri multiple sclerosis
drug to  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)   Elan will announce “a number of strategic transactions”
to be made with some of the proceeds when the Tysabri sale
closes or thereafter, the Dublin-based company said in a
statement today. Elan also will refinance its $600 million of
 debt  after the $3.25 billion sale of Tysabri closes, it said.  The stock repurchase may assuage some investors who were
skeptical when the deal was announced Feb. 6 of Elan’s plan to
make acquisitions with some of the proceeds. Elan’s American
depositary receipts fell the most in almost seven months that
day. The company said at the time it would return some proceeds
to shareholders, without giving details.  “They’ve now put some numbers around that,” said Adrian Howd, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London  who recommends
buying Elan shares. “And it looks as if the timing of the use
of the other proceeds, in terms of investments in pipeline and
new product assets, is more progressed than some had thought.”  Elan’s American depositary receipts rose 3 percent to
$10.60 at the close in New York. The ADRs have dropped 11
percent in the past year,  compared with  an 18 percent return for
the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Further Clarity  “Understandably, many market participants are looking
forward to further clarity around how we intend to deploy the
significant upfront payment we will be receiving,” Elan Chief
Executive Officer Kelly Martin said in the statement. “We have
been making significant progress in this regard and are prepared
to move expeditiously, upon close, on the redeployment of
capital.”  Under the agreement, Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen
will hold all rights to Tysabri, and Elan in return will receive
$3.25 billion in cash at closing, on which it will pay little or
no tax. Biogen also will pay royalties to Elan on sales of
Tysabri. The companies previously shared profits equally from
the drug, which generated $1.6 billion in revenue in 2012.  The transaction leaves Elan with not much in the way of
operations. The company last year spun off its early-stage drug
research in a company called Prothena Corp., and in 2011 sold
its Elan Drug Technologies unit to  Alkermes Plc. (ALKS)   Project Stake  Elan has a stake in a research project by Johnson & Johnson
and Pfizer Inc. into treatments for Alzheimer’s disease, but the
most advanced product failed in a clinical trial last year. Elan
also has a drug, ELND005, in clinical trials for agitation or
aggression in Alzheimer’s patients, and for bipolar disorder.  In announcing the Tysabri deal, Martin said the company had
already been reviewing possible assets to buy with the proceeds.
The company benefits from the low Irish corporate tax rate and
has more than $1.5 billion in  accumulated losses  that can be
used as deduction on future income.  “We are enthusiastic about the opportunities that exist
and we expect to be in a position to announce a number of
strategic transactions upon or following the close,” Elan said
in today’s statement.  The company reiterated it expects the deal to close by the
end of the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  