-- Telefonica Grooms Pallete as CEO After Alierta M&A Spree
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-02-22T16:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/telefonica-grooms-pallete-as-ceo-after-alierta-m-a-spree.html
Last summer, Cesar Alierta endured
the toughest stretch of his 12-year tenure as Chief Executive
Officer of  Telefonica SA. (TEF)  Pressure from rating companies and
investors spurred him to swear off dividends and big-ticket
acquisitions. And, at age 67, it was time for Alierta to
consider naming a successor.  In September, Alierta, the longest-serving head of a major
European telecommunications company, promoted Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete to chief operating officer at the Spanish former
phone monopoly. Since then, Pallete -- who had overseen European
operations -- has wielded more decision-making power than his
two predecessors, indicating that he’s being groomed as CEO,
people familiar with the matter said.  Pallete was a driving force behind strategic moves such as
the  dividend halt , the sale of a stake in Telefonica’s German
unit, and aggressive tariff cuts in  Spain  to stem customer
defections, said the people, asking not to be identified
discussing internal deliberations. In the twice-monthly
executive meetings he runs, the 49-year-old is winning support
from directors, managers and major shareholders, they said.  “He would be a great successor when Alierta decides to
step down,” said Nicolas Gouju, who helps manage 80 billion
euros ($105 billion), including Telefonica bonds, at Groupama
Asset Management SA. “The fact that Alvarez-Pallete is taking
more responsibility is very positive for us.”  Brazilian Commute  Madrid-born Pallete studied economics at Complutense
University and joined Telefonica in 1999 as finance manager in
the international division under Alierta’s predecessor, Juan Villalonga. It took him only seven months to rise to the top of
the finance department, and the following year he oversaw the
listing of Telefonica’s wireless division. He remained finance
chief until he was asked to oversee the company’s extensive
 Latin American operations  in 2002.  Seen as down-to-earth, charming and shrewd, Pallete
commuted from  Sao Paulo  to  Madrid  almost weekly to see his
family during nearly 10 years in  Latin America . The occasional
marathon runner is a big fan of Twitter, posting several tweets
daily, mostly about entrepreneurship and technology.  After Pallete tripled revenue in the region over a decade,
Alierta moved him back to run  Europe  in September 2011. Strategy
chief Santiago Fernandez Valbuena, another potential successor
to Alierta, took over Latin America.  Southbound Stock  Europe needed fixing. With the debt crisis in Spain
deepening and unemployment above 20 percent, customers were
leaving for cheaper rivals. Telefonica’s stock, already
languishing at a five-year low, headed further south, and in the
worst monthly drop since at least 2002, the shares plunged 19
percent in May 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That month, Standard & Poor’s cut Telefonica’s  bond rating 
to BBB, two steps above non-investment grade. Moody’s Investors
Service made a similar cut a month later as the Spanish
company’s net debt topped 58 billion euros.  Following the downgrades, the cost of insuring the
company’s bonds using credit-default swaps jumped to an 11-year
high in June, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Since then, it’s
dropped by about half, below  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  but still higher
than  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Royal  KPN NV (KPN) , and  France Telecom SA. (FTE)   Last July, Telefonica suspended dividends to save 10
billion euros and slashed compensation for top executives. In
the same month, it divested a stake in  China Unicom (762)  ( Hong Kong )
Ltd., then in October it sold almost a quarter of Telefonica
Deutschland Holding AG in Europe’s biggest initial public
offering of 2012. Pallete was among the most fervent supporters
of measures to address Telefonica’s debt, according to people
familiar with the board.  Private Meeting  In mid-September, against a backdrop of discord among board
members over how to reduce debt, Alierta called Pallete to his
home and asked him to take over as COO, succeeding Julio Linares, who had been at Telefonica for more than 40 years.  “People like to work for” Pallete, who is more outgoing
than his boss, said former Telefonica board member Maximino Carpio. “If I could still vote, he would be my candidate to
succeed Alierta, whenever that happens.”  Alierta and Pallete aren’t available to be interviewed for
this story, according to a Telefonica spokesman, who declined to
comment on any possible succession planning.  Outperforming Peers  Telefonica shares have outperformed those of Europe’s
former phone monopolies since Pallete’s promotion. While  France
Telecom  has fallen 30 percent since mid-September through
yesterday and KPN was down 57 percent, Telefonica has lost 17
percent. Telefonica, scheduled to report earnings Feb. 28, may
say fourth-quarter  revenue  fell 3 percent to 15.6 billion euros
as sales in Spain shrank and growth in Latin America slowed,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The shares rose 2.5 percent to close at 9.73 euros in
Madrid, giving the company a market value of 44.3 billion euros.  In contrast to the tight rein Alierta maintained on Linares
and his predecessor, Fernando Abril-Martorell, who now runs
Spain’s biggest media company,  Promotora de Informaciones SA ,
the CEO is increasingly handing daily operations to Pallete,
people familiar with the matter said. Alierta, though, still
signs off on major decisions, they added.  To win back customers lost to cable and smaller fixed-line
rivals, Pallete has introduced packages with phone, Internet and
TV for as little as 50 euros a month. In Valencia, where
customer defections were among the fastest, Telefonica dished
out free paella and chocolate.  Picadilly Circus  Pallete already speaks out as Telefonica’s leader. In
January, he took a team of executives to  London  for meetings at
the company’s office near Picadilly Circus, where giant balloons
with the Brazilian, British and Spanish flags loom over informal
gathering spots for engineers. He was flanked by U.K. chief
Ronan Dunne, digital business head Matthew Key, and Eva Castillo, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker who succeeded
Pallete at the European unit.  While the CEO hasn’t indicated any immediate plans to step
down, Manuel Bermejo, a professor at IE Business School in
Madrid, says it may be time for him to consider passing full
control to Pallete or another successor -- even if Alierta has
been a strong leader for Telefonica.  “The naming of Alvarez-Pallete sends a clear signal to the
market,” Bermejo said. “Alierta has enough sense of
responsibility to figure out when he needs to step down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  