-- Tencent Falls After WeChat User Details Sought: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-22T08:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/tencent-falls-after-wechat-user-details-sought-hong-kong-mover.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s
largest Internet company, fell the most in more than two months
in Hong Kong trading after the company sought identification
details for some users of its WeChat instant-message service.  Tencent fell 2.7 percent to HK$264.40 at the close, the
biggest drop since Dec. 3. The  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.5 percent.  The  company  has sought ID card details from official
account WeChat users who send feeds to followers, according to
its website. China passed rules Dec. 28 requiring people to
identify themselves when signing up for Internet and phone
services as the government tightens control over the world’s
largest population of Web users.  “When real-name registration requirements first came,
people were quite worried that it would affect the popularity
and user numbers,” said Ma  Yuan , a Beijing-based analyst at
Bocom International Holdings Co. “This should just be a short-
term effect as user numbers have continued to go up in the past
after similar news.”  Tencent has drawn more than 300 million users since
introducing the WhatsApp-like social-network application about
two years ago.  The Shenzhen-based company, which this month upgraded its
system, now requires official account users who send feeds --
featuring news, opinions or coupons -- to submit copies of their
identification cards, mobile phone numbers, addresses and other
personal information during registration, according to the
website.  Jerry Huang, a director of  investor relations  at Tencent,
didn’t respond to a phone call and an e-mail requesting comment
on the identification requirements.  2011 Rules  Beijing’s local government first announced regulations for
real-name registration on Dec. 16, 2011.  Sina (SINA)  Corp., operator of
the Twitter-like Weibo microblog with more than 500 million
accounts,  plunged  more than 11 percent that day before
recovering as its service continued adding users.  Some of the official account users have a huge influence,
said David Feng Dahui, chief technology officer of medical
website DXY.com who has more than 40,000 followers on his
official WeChat account.  “This was bound to happen,” Feng said. “Tencent would
need to do this even if it’s just to make a gesture.”  Companies including Sina and Tencent have had time to
consider the user-registration requirements since 2011, said
Victoria Mio, a  fund manager  at Robeco Hong Kong Ltd., which
holds shares of Tencent.  “Tencent has already been involved in active content
monitoring to make sure they comply with Chinese laws and
regulations,” Mio said. “For WeChat services, users already
have to provide their mobile numbers -- which in effect
satisfied the real-name registration rule, as mobile operators
have their government IDs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  