-- Menendez Public Rating Drops as Democrats Stick With Him
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-02-22T18:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/menendez-public-rating-drops-as-democrats-stick-with-him.html
New Jersey Senator Robert Menendez’s
job-approval ratings have plunged amid allegations that he
improperly helped a longtime friend and donor, even as fellow
Democrats say they’re standing behind him.  A  Quinnipiac University  poll released yesterday showed that
just 36 percent of New Jersey voters approve of Menendez’s job
performance, a 15-point drop from January. Seventy percent of
those  polled , including 72 percent of independents, said they
had read or heard about the controversy surrounding the 59-year-
old lawmaker’s ties to  Florida  eye doctor Salomon Melgen.  “The Quinnipiac poll says he’s not in good shape,”
Maurice Carroll, director of the polling institute, said of
Menendez, who was elected to a second term in November by almost
20 percentage points. “The political reality is that he has a
lot of time to get in good shape.”  Menendez is facing no pressure from Republicans to step
aside from his new post as chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.  “The people of the state of New Jersey voted for Senator
Menendez,” New Jersey Governor Chris Christie told reporters
yesterday in Sea Bright. “I expect that he’ll do his job in a
conscientious, fair and effective way.”  ‘Hasn’t Wavered’  Menendez retains support from Democrats such as Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, of  Nevada , who told reporters last
week that his confidence in Menendez “hasn’t wavered at all.”  “Members start to get in trouble when people in their own
party start to turn on them, and we haven’t seen that yet,”
said Nathan Gonzales, deputy editor of the Rothenberg Political
Report in Washington. “There are plenty of bad headlines, but I
think Democrats are giving him the benefit of the doubt.”  On Jan. 29, the FBI, along with officials from the
Department of Health and Human Services inspector general’s
office, raided Melgen’s West Palm Beach, Florida, office as part
of a probe into possible Medicare fraud, according to a person
with knowledge of the investigation who asked not to be
identified in discussing the matter.  Federal agents conducted the raid primarily to look into
possible fraudulent billing activities by Melgen’s ophthalmology
business, according to the Miami Herald.  Paul Bresson, a Federal Bureau of Investigation spokesman,
declined to comment on the purpose of the raid or on the
Menendez matter. The person with knowledge of the raid cautioned
that it didn’t mean the action was related to the Menendez
accusations.  Melgen Ties  The raid fueled scrutiny of Menendez’s ties to Melgen, who
donated more than $700,000 last year to the senator’s campaign
and other Senate Democrats, according to the  Washington  Post.
Menendez in 2009 and in 2012 raised concerns with top officials
at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services about the
agency’s finding that the doctor had overbilled the government
by $8.9 million, according to the Washington Post.  A day after the raid, Citizens for Responsibility and
Ethics in Washington, a watchdog group, released  a letter  it
sent in July to the FBI and Justice Department asking them to
investigate allegations raised via e-mail by a tipster. The
tipster claimed Menendez engaged in sexual activities with
underage prostitutes while vacationing with Melgen in the
Dominican Republic.  An e-mail seeking comment sent to the account of the
individual who made the accusations wasn’t returned.  Port Security  According to the Washington Post, FBI agents also are
looking into Menendez’s role in pushing enforcement of a port-
security contract in the Dominican Republic held by a company in
which Melgen is an investor.  Melgen stood to gain a windfall if the contract, which
calls for operating X-ray scanners to screen cargo at the
country’s ports, was enforced, the Post said.  Following the raid, Georgia Senator Johnny Isakson, the top
Republican on the chamber’s six-member Ethics Committee, said
the panel would review the matter.  Senator Richard Durbin of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, said on Feb. 10 on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
that the ethics panel was looking into the matter and that
Menendez had given assurances to Democratic leaders that “there
is no substance to these charges.”  Dominican Republic  Menendez, who has denied any wrongdoing, said he wrote a
$58,500 check last month to reimburse Melgen for two 2010 trips
the lawmaker took to the Dominican Republic on Melgen’s private
jet once the senator’s staff discovered the trips hadn’t been
paid for earlier.  “No one has bought me,” Menendez said in a Feb. 8
interview with Univision, a Spanish-language television station.
“No one. Ever.”  Inquiries he made on Melgen’s behalf were part of “normal
process,” Menendez said in the interview, which the network
translated into English.  “The fact that someone is a donor does not do away with
the right or the opportunity to consider whether something is
correct or incorrect, to ask questions, raise concerns,” he
said.  The senator said accusations that he had sex with underage
prostitutes during trips with Melgen to the Dominican Republic
are “not only absurd -- but completely false.”  Prolific Donor  Melgen, a wealthy eye surgeon born in the Dominican
Republic, has been a prolific donor to and friend of Menendez
for years. According to published reports, Menendez has
accompanied Melgen a number of times to the Dominican Republic,
where Melgen owns a villa in Casa de Campo, an oceanfront gated
golf resort.  As stories concerning the doctor have swirled around
Menendez, the lawmaker has embraced his new role as chairman of
the Foreign Relations Committee. He’s countering the bad
publicity in part by “acting like a senator,” Quinnipiac’s
Carroll said.  This week he traveled to Kabul, for his first visit as head
of the panel. He met with  Afghanistan ’s President Hamid Karzai
on Feb. 19 to call for a transparent national election next year
and discuss the reduction of U.S. forces there, according to a
statement from Menendez’s office in Washington.  Last week, he briefed Senate Democrats about the security
situation in North Korea in a closed-door session before heading
overseas. And on Feb. 13, he helped brief President  Barack Obama 
on the status of bipartisan Senate talks on revamping U.S.
immigration law.  Won’t Back Down  Menendez “is the kind of politician who’s not going to
back down,” said Julian Zelizer, a professor of history and
public affairs at Princeton University in New Jersey.  A son of Cuban immigrants, Menendez has been an outspoken
opponent of easing the trade embargo against Cuba that has been
in place for about 50 years. He fought the easing of travel
restrictions to the island nation pushed by the Obama
administration.  He has helped shape U.S. policy on the effort to force Iran
to abandon its nuclear program. He has also led the push in
Congress for expanded economic sanctions against  Iran , forcing
the Obama administration to accept steps it now embraces.  Still, even without the latest controversy, Menendez would
face a difficult challenge establishing his foreign policy
credentials, said Ross Baker, a political scientist at Rutgers
University in New Brunswick, New Jersey.  The most recent chairmen were Democrats Joe Biden, who left
when he became vice president in 2009, and John Kerry, who was
confirmed as U.S. secretary of state by the Senate last month on
a vote of 94-3.  “It’s a distraction for him, without question,” Baker
said of the recent reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  