-- Espirito Santo Sells Property Loans to Private Equity Funds
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-22T13:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/espirito-santo-sells-property-loans-to-private-equity-funds.html
Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) , Portugal’s
biggest publicly traded bank, is selling some loans from
companies in the real estate and tourism industries that are at
risk of insolvency to private-equity funds.  “The goal is always to turn around these companies,”
Antonio Souto, a board member at Banco Espirito Santo, said in
an interview on Feb. 20. “This is something that is working
quite well as otherwise these businesses would simply become
insolvent and would be totally liquidated.”  ECS Capital  and  Explorer Investments SCR SA  are among
private-equity funds that have acquired loans owed to Portuguese
banks by companies in the tourism and real estate industries,
Souto said. Espirito Santo and other Portuguese lenders are
shareholders in some of these funds, he said.  Portuguese tourism companies, which relied heavily on the
sale of real estate assets to repay their debts, suffered from a
loss of investor confidence in the aftermath of the collapse of
the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and after  Portugal  requested a
bailout in 2011, Souto said.  “What happened is that property sales, which used to be
enough to pay the debt owed by these companies, suddenly
disappeared,” he said. Today, these loans are often sold at a
“significant discount” to these funds, which are managed in a
“completely autonomous” way, he added.  An official at Portuguese lender Banif SGPS SA, said it has
also sold loans to funds.  Antonio de Sousa, the former president of the Association
of Portuguese Banks, is one of the board members of ECS Capital,
which has more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) under
management, according to the fund’s website. ECS Capital and
Explorer weren’t immediately available for comment.  Souto said he doesn’t see a conflict of interest for banks
selling these type of loans to funds in which they hold stakes.  “In fact, this solution has even been praised by our
colleagues in Spain that would have liked to develop solutions
of this nature,” Souto said. He declined to say how much debt
the bank has sold to funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  