-- EU Adds Swiss Franc-Denominated Rates to Antitrust Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-02-22T10:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/eu-adds-swiss-franc-denominated-rates-to-antitrust-probe.html
European Union antitrust regulators
are investigating collusion among banks and brokers to
manipulate benchmark lending rates denominated in Swiss francs,
building on earlier probes linked to the yen and the euro, EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said today.  “We are investigating the  interest rates  used as a
reference for several currencies, including the euro, yen and
Swiss franc,” Almunia said in the text of a speech he gave in
Paris. “We suspect the existence of cartels between certain
actors in the derivative markets -- banks but also brokers.”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Barclays Plc,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  have all said they were quizzed by
the EU over benchmark interest rates. Almunia has said
previously that he’s investigating possible rate-fixing for
Libor, Euribor and the Tokyo index Tibor that may have affected
derivatives. He said today that the Euribor probe is linked to
the euro and declined to comment further on currencies linked to
the other rates.  The Libor probes are an “absolute priority” for the EU,
Almunia said today. Any fines from EU regulators will cover all
the companies involved at once, he said. That differs from other
financial regulators that have settled with banks separately.
 Barclays (BARC) , UBS AG and RBS have been fined more than $2.5 billion
by U.S. and U.K. financial regulators for manipulating the
 London  interbank offered rate and more than a dozen more firms
are being investigated.  Conditional Immunity  UBS has received conditional immunity from U.S. and Swiss
antitrust regulators for cooperating with investigations. The
bank said it sought immunity for probes on yen Libor, Euroyen
Tibor and Swiss franc Libor.  The EU can levy fines of as much of 10 percent of a
company’s yearly global revenue for each cartel in which they
participate. Interest-rate derivatives markets were worth $20
trillion in 2011, Almunia said in July.  “The Libor manipulation scandal as it’s come out has
highlighted some of the most irresponsible behavior of the
financial industry to date,” Almunia said in the speech today.
“It’s important to note that antitrust violations were
officially recognized in the recent deal struck between RBS and
the U.S. authorities.”  Lehmnan Collapse  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler yesterday questioned the long-term viability of
benchmark rates such as Libor, saying they need to be based on
real transactions instead of estimates. Regulators from around
the world are discussing the future of the benchmarks. The CFTC
published a code of conduct in June for how banks should make
daily submissions.  Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, banks stopped lending to one another for periods
of more than a day or two. In the absence of any interbank
transactions, banks increasingly set Libor to suit their own
derivatives positions, according to regulatory filings.  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily by  Thomson
Reuters  Corp. on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association, a
banking industry lobby group, that asks firms to estimate how
much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. The top and bottom
quartiles of quotes are excluded, and those left are averaged
and published for individual currencies before noon in London.  Oversight of Libor will eventually be taken over by the
U.K.’s financial regulator, and dozens of the currencies and
maturities that make up the benchmark axed, under proposals from
Martin Wheatley, the agency’s Managing Director, designed to
revive confidence in the rate.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News ,
competes with Thomson Reuters in providing financial news and
information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  