-- EU Carbon Pares Decline as Denmark Supports Supply-Curb Proposal
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-02-22T17:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/eu-carbon-pares-decline-as-denmark-supports-supply-curb-proposal.html
European Union carbon-dioxide
permits pared a decline as Denmark said it will support the
bloc’s proposal to curb a surplus of allowances in the world’s
biggest cap-and-trade market.  EU emissions permits for December closed 2.1 percent lower
at 5.19 euros ($6.8) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . The contracts earlier slumped as much as 9.4
percent to 4.80 euros after an auction of permits by Germany
failed for the second time this year because bids didn’t meet
the unspecified reference price.  The price of carbon has fallen 22 percent this year as EU
governments and the bloc’s Parliament wrangle over a law change
that would enable delaying the sale of 900 million tons of
allowances as a way to support prices. The European Commission,
the architect of the measure, has said the cost of carbon has
fallen too low to encourage trade in the permits.  “We have chosen to support the commission’s proposal in
order to save the carbon market as it struggles with very low
prices,” Denmark’s Climate Minister Martin Lidegaard said in a
statement published on the ministry’s website today. “We still
demand, however, that the commission set out a plan for making
structural changes to the market.”  The proposed change to the emissions-trading law makes
explicit the commission’s legal right to alter the schedule of
carbon auctions. This would allow the regulator to withhold the
sale of some permits over the next three years, and then return
them to the market in 2019 and 2020 in a strategy called
backloading.  Uncommitted Nations  The plan has more prospective supporters than opponents
among the EU’s 27 governments, though it still needs the backing
from some undecided nations to win the qualified majority, three
EU officials familiar with the matter said last month. The
uncommitted countries include  Germany ,  Hungary , Malta,  Portugal ,
 Greece  and the  Czech Republic .  Backloading also requires the support of the European
Parliament where the biggest political group, the European
 People’s Party , has said most of its members oppose market
intervention.  The Parliament’s  Environment Committee  approved a
compromise version of a draft law change in a non-binding
decision this week. The committee’s chairman Matthias Groote is
yet to decide whether to call a vote next week on pursuing fast-
track talks with  member states  before a plenary discussion.  The EU’s emissions trading system, the world’s biggest
greenhouse-gas program by traded volume, may be oversupplied by
1.5 billion tons by the end of this year without action to curb
the glut,  Jos Delbeke , the European Commission’s director
general for climate, said Feb. 6.  The EU introduced its emissions trading system in 2005 to
help meet greenhouse-gas reduction targets under the 1997  Kyoto
Protocol . The program auctions or allocates for free allowances
to factories and utilities, which must surrender enough permits
to cover their discharges of carbon dioxide or face fines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  