-- EU Carbon Plunges After German Permit Auction Fails Second Time
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-02-22T11:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/eu-carbon-plunges-after-german-permit-auction-fails-second-time.html
European Union carbon permits
dropped as much as 9.4 percent after a sale by  Germany  failed
for a second time this year because bids didn’t reach an
unspecified reference price.  EU allowances for December fell as much as 50 cents to 4.80
euros ($6.34) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London  and were at 5.08 euros at 11:10 a.m. The contracts closed
at a one-month high of 5.30 euros yesterday.  The 4 million tons from the canceled sale will be “evenly
distributed” over the next four weekly auctions, Leipzig,
Germany-based  European Energy Exchange AG , which handled the
auction, said by e-mail.  EU carbon allowances for this year dropped to a record 2.81
euros a ton last month as the region’s slowing economy and a
surplus of the certificates damped demand. The European
Commission has proposed holding back 900 million tons of new
permits over the next three years as one way to support prices.  The EU’s emissions trading system, the world’s biggest
greenhouse-gas program by traded volume, may be oversupplied by
1.5 billion tons by the end of this year,  Jos Delbeke , the
European Commission’s director general for climate, said Feb. 6.  A sale of German permits on Jan. 18 also failed after bids
didn’t reach the reserve price.  The EU introduced its carbon system in 2005 to help meet
emission-reduction targets under the 1997  Kyoto Protocol . The
program auctions or allocates for free allowances to factories
and utilities, which must surrender enough permits to cover
their discharges of carbon dioxide or face fines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  