-- EU Sees Slovenia Recession Extending on Exports, Poor Demand
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-02-22T13:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/eu-sees-slovenia-recession-extending-on-exports-poor-demand.html
Slovenia’s economy, which slipped
back into recession last year, will shrink the most in the
European Union after Greece and Cyprus this year on weakening
investment, a rising jobless rate and faltering domestic
consumption, the European Commission said.  The economy is forecast to decline 2 percent this year
after an estimated 2 percent contraction last year, the
Commission said in a report released today in Brussels. A
recovery of 0.7 percent can be expected next year, depending on
a “swift” resolution of the banking crisis and a successful
restructuring of the over-indebted corporate sector, it said.  Next year, “some stabilization of the  economy  is expected,
although this process will be gradual and subject to risks in
both directions depending on the speed of restructuring and
developments in the banking sector,” the EU’s executive arm
said in the report. The bank recapitalization plan adopted at
the end of last year may be at risk due to “intensified
political uncertainty.”  Slovenia’s ailing banking industry, which last year
reported a pretax loss of 664 million euros ($878 million), has
raised investor concerns the Adriatic nation may be forced to
seek a bailout amid a political crisis that may lead to early
elections.  Deficit Forecasts  The  budget deficit  is forecast to widen to 5.1 percent of
gross domestic product at the end of the year, mostly due to the
conversion of the state’s hybrid loan for Nova Ljubljanska Banka
d.d. into equity. It will total 4.7 percent in 2014, the
commission predicted. Slovenia will breach the 3 percent limit
by the end of the year, according to Olli Rehn, the EU’s
economic and monetary affairs commissioner.  “Deadlines can or may be extended if the recommended
structural fiscal effort have been delivered and if unexpected
growth shortfalls make major impact on public finances,” Rehn
said in Brussels today.  Public debt, estimated at 53.7 percent of GDP at the end of
last year, will rise to 59.5 percent by the end of the year and
to 63.4 percent in 2014, the EU said.  The benchmark SBITOP stock index fell 3.3 percent to 612.49
as of 1:51 p.m. in Ljubljana, its biggest drop since Jan. 14 and
the second-largest in the world today. Slovenia’s dollar-
denominated bond maturing in 2022 was unchanged from yesterday
at 5.15 percent at 1:51 p.m. in Ljubljana, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  