-- European Stocks Snap Three-Week Decline; GN, Rexam Climb
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-02-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/european-stocks-advance-for-week-on-german-confidence.html
European shares  rose for the first
week in four as better-than-expected company earnings and
measures of German confidence outweighed concern that the U.S.
Federal Reserve will scale back its asset-purchase program.  Lafarge SA gained 7.7 percent after saying it will meet a
cost-cutting goal ahead of schedule as earnings beat forecasts.
 Natixis (KN)  SA surged as it said it would make a 2 billion-euro
($2.6 billion) exceptional payment to shareholders. A gauge of
European commodity companies performed the worst of the 19
industry groups on the  Stoxx 600. (SXXP)   The Stoxx 600 climbed 0.4 percent to 288.57 this week. The
measure has advanced 3.2 percent this year as U.S. lawmakers
agreed on a compromise  federal budget  avoiding automatic fiscal
changes that had threatened to push the world’s biggest economy
into recession.  “I expect a bigger correction to come in the next few
weeks, so this is a good opportunity to buy shares as companies
are able to produce good profits, as we’ve seen this week,”
said Thomas Stucki, who helps manage about $3.8 billion as chief
investment officer at Hyposwiss Private Bank AG in Zurich. “An
important support to the stock market is still the lack of
alternatives to equities.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 10 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 increased 0.1 percent and
 France ’s CAC 40 added 1.3 percent.  Germany ’s DAX gained 0.9
percent.  German Confidence  In Germany, investor confidence increased to the highest
level in almost three years in February. The  index  of investor
and analyst expectations climbed to 48.2 from 31.5 in January,
the ZEW Center for European Economic Research said this week.
That exceeded the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey calling for an increase to 35.  Separately, the Ifo institute’s  business climate index  for
Europe’s biggest economy, based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
climbed to 107.4 in February from a revised 104.3 in January.
The median of 38 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey had called
for an increase to 104.9. The latest reading was the highest
since April.  Still, the euro-area economy will shrink for a second year
in 2013, driving unemployment higher as governments, consumers
and companies curb spending, the European Commission said.  Euro-Area GDP  The 17-nation euro region’s gross domestic product will
fall 0.3 percent this year, compared with a November prediction
of 0.1 percent growth, the Brussels-based commission forecast.
Unemployment will climb to 12.2 percent, up from the previous
estimate of 11.8 percent and 11.4 percent last year, it said.  In the U.S., Fed officials debated whether monetary easing
risks exacerbating inflation or fueling asset-price bubbles.
Several participants at the Federal Open Market committee’s Jan.
29-30 meeting “emphasized that the committee should be prepared
to vary the pace of asset purchases, either in response to
changes in the economic outlook or as its evaluation of the
efficacy and costs of such purchases evolves,” according to
minutes released on Feb. 20.  Lafarge (LG)  advanced 7.7 percent. The world’s biggest cement
maker said it’ll meet most of a cost-cutting goal one year early
after fourth-quarter earnings beat analysts’ estimates on rising
sales in  Asia  and  Latin America .  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose to 856 million euros from 798 million euros a
year earlier, the Paris-based company said. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had expected 821.6 million euros.  Natixis Payment  Natixis rallied 18 percent. The investment-bank unit of
France’s second-largest lender by branches said it will make a
payment to shareholders after selling back stakes in its
parent’s banking networks. The distribution amounts to 65 cents
a share, and comes on top of a proposed dividend of 10 cents a
share for 2012.  GN Store Nord A/S (GN)  gained 12 percent after the Danish maker
of headsets reported fourth-quarter sales rose 12 percent to
1.76 billion kroner ($311 million). That beat the average
estimate of 1.68 billion kroner in a Bloomberg survey of 15
analysts. The company also forecast 2013 sales that exceeded
analysts’ estimates.  Rexam Plc (REX)  climbed 7.3 percent this week. The largest maker
of beverage cans said profit before tax was 418 million pounds
($639 million) in 2012, exceeding the 377 million-pound median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Miners Slump  A gauge of European  mining companies  slid 4.8 percent on
concern that Chinese calls for curbs on property development
will crimp demand for commodities.  BHP Billiton Plc (BLT)  and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s largest
miners, slid 6.1 percent and 6.9 percent, respectively.  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  slipped 4.8 percent.  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  plunged 13 percent for the second-worst
performance on the Stoxx 600 this week. America Movil SAB, the
mobile-phone carrier controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , will
take part in a 3 billion-euro KPN share sale, while declining to
participate in a 1 billion-euro sale of so-called hybrid
instruments.  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  tumbled 11 percent after announcing
a dividend cut. The U.K.’s biggest non-life insurer by market
value lowered its payout by 33 percent as its 2012 underwriting
profit was eroded by claims related to wet weather in the U.K.
and earthquakes in  Italy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  