-- Quickening Mexico Inflation Reduces Room for March Rate Cut
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-02-22T16:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/mexico-prices-rise-faster-than-forecast-in-early-february-1-.html
Mexico’s  consumer prices  rose more
than analysts forecast in the first half of February, reducing
room for the central bank to cut rates as early as March.  Prices climbed 0.24 percent, the national statistics agency
said today, lifting  annual inflation  to 3.47 percent as of Feb.
15 from 3.25 percent in January. Analysts had expected prices to
rise 0.19 percent, according to the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. Core inflation, which excludes energy and
agriculture prices, rose 0.24 percent, compared with 0.19
percent forecast by 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Annual inflation rebounded after touching a 15-month low in
January that prompted traders to increase bets the central bank
would cut borrowing costs for the first time since 2009. The
bank said it may cut the overnight rate from a record-low 4.5
percent if inflation keeps falling toward policy makers’ 3
percent target, leading 19 of 20 economists to forecast lower
rates this year in a Feb. 20 Citigroup Inc. survey.  Today’s inflation report “is much higher than expected,
and the market will reduce the probability of a rate cut in
March,” Marco Oviedo, an economist at Barclays Plc, said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. For the rate cut outlook,
the report “poses risks to the central scenario, which is a
lower inflation environment,” he said.  ’Greater Convergence’  The cost of mobile phone service rose 8.4 percent in the
first half of February from two weeks earlier, the statistics
agency said in its report, after prices tumbled in December as
regulators moved to increase competition in the sector. Green
tomato costs rose 14.8 percent, the institute said.  Banco de Mexico may cut rates “if we keep advancing in
this convergence process, and it’s shown that we have inflation
each time closer to 3 percent in a more sustainable way,”
central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said Feb. 13. “We would
like, with time, to see a greater convergence in inflation
toward 3 percent.”  Yields on fixed-rate Mexican government bonds due in 2024
fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.06 percent
at 10:36 a.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on inflation-linked bonds maturing in 2014
fell one basis point to 1.11 percent. The peso was little
changed from yesterday at 12.7442 per dollar. The peso rose 8.4
percent last year, the most among 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  Slowing Growth  While prices rose more than expected, growth indicators
showed signs of slowing economic expansion. January’s
unemployment rate rose more than all 16 economists’ estimates in
a Bloomberg survey to 5.42 percent, the statistics agency said
today. Yesterday the agency reported December retail sales
posted their first contraction since April 2010. December
industrial output also dropped, surprising every economist
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Growth at least in the first half of the year will
moderate. We’ll be seeing a much weaker external demand and this
will eventually translate into domestic demand numbers,” Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB economist Delia Paredes said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “We continue to expect
Banco de Mexico to cut rates in its March 8” meeting.  Analysts see a 50 basis-point rate cut by April, according
to the median estimate in the most recent bi-weekly survey by
Citigroup’s Banamex unit. In the previous poll they forecast a
change in rates in January 2014.  GDP Expansion  Gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in the fourth
quarter from the previous three months, more than the 0.6
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of seven
economists, while the central bank said Feb. 13 that Mexico’s
economic expansion is more likely to slow than speed up and
could be held back if growth stalls in the U.S.  Mexico’s economy will probably expand 3.5 percent this year
and 3.9 percent in 2014, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, after growing 3.9 percent in
2012.  Manuel Sanchez, one of five Banco de Mexico board members,
disagreed with the view of the board’s majority on inflation,
saying in a Feb. 20 report that Mexico still needs a
“vigilant” monetary policy. Sanchez said that annual price
increases haven’t been converging toward the target and
highlighted the seven months that inflation spent above the 4
percent upper end of the central bank’s target range last year.  “Convergence of inflation to the permanent target demands
more than a few months of good results,” Sanchez wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  