-- Fattened Margins Seen Shrinking 40% at Banks: Mortgages
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-02-22T21:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/fattened-margins-seen-shrinking-40-at-banks-mortgages.html
Record mortgage profits that drove
earnings at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are
fading as increased competition keeps the rates banks are
offering on new loans near all-time lows.  The amount that lenders make from packaging each loan into
securities and selling them to investors may be down as much as
40 percent from last quarter, Compass Point Research and Trading
LLC estimates, as banks absorb most of the costs of tumbling
bond prices.  After the four biggest bank lenders reported more than $24
billion of revenue from originations last year as refinancing
soared, mortgage firms are accepting narrower margins as they
seek to sustain demand from a shrinking pool of borrowers. Bond
prices have slumped as the U.S.  housing recovery  contributes to
optimism about the economy and investors start to brace for the
end of the  Federal Reserve ’s debt purchases.  “Gain-on-sale margins are definitely getting squeezed,”
said Rob Hirt, chief executive officer of Walnut Creek,
California-based RPM Mortgage Inc., whose margins are down about
10 percent to 15 percent. “It can depend on the type of
mortgage company you are,” he said. RPM for instance only
grants loans directly to consumers, rather than through brokers
or correspondents.  While the  average rate  for a 30-year fixed mortgage tracked
by  Freddie Mac  has risen 0.25 percentage point from a record low
in November to 3.56 percent this week, that’s less than half of
the 0.54 percentage point-increase to 2.64 percent in a
 Bloomberg index  of yields on the government-backed securities
into which lenders package new loans.  Record Spread  The difference between the two rates, known as the primary-
secondary spread, is a gauge of the profitability of
originations. It reached an all-time high of 1.8 percentage
point in September.  Increases in the annual fees that taxpayer-supported  Fannie
Mae  and Freddie Mac charge to guarantee mortgage bonds of 0.1
percentage point mean the drop in lenders’ margins is even
larger than the narrowing  gap  alone suggests, according to a
report yesterday by Compass Point.  “The profits from mortgage origination will be
pressured,” Kevin Barker, an analyst at the Washington-based
firm, said in a telephone interview.  Firms that may be most damaged by the change include
 Flagstar Bancorp Inc. (FBC) ,  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) 
 PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust (PMT) ,  EverBank Financial Corp. (EVER)  and
 PHH Corp. (PHH) , according to the report.  Historical Levels  Wells Fargo rose 1 percent to $35.82 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York  extending the gain this year to 4.8 percent. EverBank fell
0.6 percent and has declined 2.1  percent since 2012.  Spokesmen for the companies and JPMorgan and Wells Fargo,
the two largest home lenders last year, declined to comment or
didn’t return messages yesterday. Some of their executives have
said they’ve been anticipating a drop in profitability.  “Margins in the fourth quarter remained wide compared to
historical levels,” PennyMac Chief Financial Officer Anne McCallion said during a Feb. 8 earnings call. “That margin will
begin to normalize this year as new competitors enter the market
and refinance activity begins to decline.”  Competition for mortgage originations could take market
share from Wells Fargo and JPMorgan. San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo expanded its operations staff by at least 25 percent in
2012, the company said in November. JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S.
bank  by assets, said last year it had transferred 3,500 people
from servicing to mortgage originations.  ‘Hiring Spree’  The industry was on a “hiring spree” in 2012 as companies
tried to take advantage of the “surprising increase in
 refinance  volumes,” Barker said in the report.  That jump last year created wider margins as lenders
restrained how much they decreased the rates they offered to
consumers as the firms slowly built up staff to handle the
demand, while the Fed helped drive down bond yields by
announcing in September it would buy $40 billion of mortgage
securities each month. Obama administration programs also made
it easier for some borrowers to qualify.  Resistance by banks to dropping rates frustrated U.S.
central bankers including New York Fed President  William Dudley ,
who said in a speech that its efforts to bolster the economy
“had been impeded.” His bank held a special workshop in
December to examine why the primary-secondary spread was so
wide. Since then, the gap has shrunk as bonds tumbled amid signs
the economic recovery is strengthening. A survey of primary
dealers conducted by the New York Fed shows a majority
anticipate an end to mortgage-bond purchases by January.  Converging Rates  A Credit Suisse Group AG measure of the gap that takes into
account increases in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guarantee fees
has since fallen to within 0.15 percentage point of its “long-
term pre-crisis average,” the bank’s analysts led by Mahesh Swaminathan said yesterday in a report.  The two rates have “converged, but perhaps not as the Fed
intended,” they said. The central bank was aiming for lower
loan rates, not to have them remain “sticky” as bond yields
climbed.  While PHH CEO Glen A. Messina described the primary-
secondary spread as a “good indication” of gain-on-sale
margins on a Feb. 7 conference call, it can be imperfect. For
instance, lenders can sell bonds backed by certain mortgages for
more.  Even with margins contracting, they’re “not collapsing,”
and volumes should remain strong,  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR
Capital Markets Corp., said in a Feb. 20 report.  Refinancing Applications  A Mortgage Bankers Association  index  of weekly refinancing
applications, for instance, is down 27.9 percent from a more
than three-year high in September. The current levels of that
measure and one for home-purchase loans suggest originations can
surpass the 2012 total of $1.8 trillion, he said.  FBR estimates there are between $2 trillion and $2.5
trillion in mortgages left to refinance, based on their current
rates.  “We continue to recommend the mortgage banking space and
believe that profitability will remain elevated in 2013,” he
wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  