-- Fed’s Bullard Says ‘Main Message’ Is Policy Will Stay Easy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-22T17:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/fed-s-bullard-says-main-message-is-policy-will-stay-easy-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President James Bullard said his “main message” is that the
central bank’s monetary policy will remain easy for a long time,
while the possibility of tapering the bond-buying program may be
gaining momentum among policy makers.  “Fed policy is very easy, and it’s going to stay easy for
a long time,” Bullard said in an interview today on CNBC
television. “That’s my main message this morning.”  The Federal Open Market Committee in the minutes of its
Jan. 29-30 meeting indicated it may consider slowing the pace of
asset purchases, as officials extended a debate over whether
record monetary easing risks unleashing inflation or fueling
asset-price bubbles. After the minutes were released on Feb. 20,
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed lower than on any trading
session since November, declining 1.2 percent to 1,511.95, as
oil and gold also fell on bets the central bank would curb
stimulus earlier than expected.  The policy making FOMC has pledged to keep the main
 interest rate  near zero as long as joblessness is above 6.5
percent and inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5
percent. The panel hasn’t specified an end-date for its program
of $85 billion in monthly asset purchases, saying only that it
will continue until the labor market improves “substantially.”  ‘Gaining Steam’  “The idea of tapering the program at some point in the
future may be gaining steam on the committee,” Bullard said.
“The committee should acknowledge gradual improvement when we
see it or when we think we see it, and then gradually taper back
the program.”  Bullard, who is a voting member of the FOMC this year, said
he expects the U.S. economy to grow 3 percent in 2013.  “I still think that’s the best prediction for the year,”
he said. Global uncertainty has decreased as  Europe  has
stabilized, and he thinks “we’re still in good shape” moving
forward, Bullard said.  Bullard said he doesn’t expect $85 billion in automatic
spending cuts currently set to take effect March 1, to seriously
damage the economy.  “I think it would only have a minor effect on growth in
2013,” he said. “There has been some anticipation of those
effects already, so it’s not as if the sequester goes into
effect and all the sudden everyone is shocked by this.”  Private Companies  Private companies can see that something is going to
happen, Bullard said.  “I think it gets spread out more than people typically
report,” he said. “They kind of have the idea that as soon as
Congress passes it, it’s going to come as a complete shock to
the private sector, but that isn’t the way things work.”  Bullard said the economy has improved modestly in recent
months. He cited the unemployment rate, which, at 7.9 percent,
is down from 8.3 percent a year ago, and the addition of about
200,000 jobs a month.  “I would consider those encouraging signs, but we’ve got
further to go,” Bullard said.  Bullard said he supports the threshold-based model the
central bank adopted for the first time in December. In the
past, the Fed gave date-based guidance for when it would adjust
policy.  Forward Guidance  “I think the forward guidance is better, I think the asset
purchases are more potent. This is a monetary policy that really
packs a punch,” Bullard said. He said he doesn’t see an
imminent change in the 6.5 percent jobless rate target.  “We just adopted the thresholds, I don’t think we’re going
to change them anytime soon here,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  