-- Fed’s Powell Says Central Bank Could Refrain From Asset Sales
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-02-22T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/fed-s-powell-says-central-bank-could-refrain-from-asset-sales.html
Federal Reserve Governor Jerome Powell said the central bank could revise its plan to eventually
sell the securities acquired during its large-scale asset
purchases, both to avoid causing financial instability and
taking losses on its sales.  “We have the flexibility to normalize the balance sheet
more slowly,” Powell said today in a speech in New York. “For
example, a ‘no asset sale’ plan -- under which assets would
simply run off as they mature -- would push out the date of
normalization by only a year or so. That approach would also
address concerns over potential market disruption.”  Powell responded to a paper from four economists warning
that the Fed may lose control of policy because of potential
losses from its more-than-$3 trillion  balance sheet . The paper’s
authors include Frederic Mishkin, a Columbia University
economist and former Fed governor who has co-written research
with Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, and David Greenlaw, the chief
U.S. fixed income economist at Morgan Stanley.  The central bank is currently purchasing $85 billion a
month of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, following
two previous rounds totaling $2.3 trillion, in an effort to
lower an  unemployment rate  stuck near 7.9 percent in January.
Once the economy strengthens, the central bank plans to unwind
its balance sheet by raising interest rates and selling many of
the assets acquired over the past four years.  Interest Income  The Fed earns interest income from its securities and uses
that income to cover its expenses and pay interest on excess
reserves held in the banking system. Leftover funds are returned
to the Treasury. Last year, these remittances total $88.9
billion.  Choosing to hold their assets until they mature “would
also smooth remittances” to the Treasury, Powell said at the
U.S. Monetary Policy Forum, sponsored by the Initiative on
Global Markets at the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business.  Powell’s remarks are a departure from the Fed’s current
“exit strategy,” adopted in June 2011, which calls for selling
assets from the central bank’s more than $3 trillion balance
sheet to return its balance sheet to a normal size and
composition.  Prior to the financial crisis the Fed did not have large
holdings of mortgage backed securities and as of 2007, the
balance sheet was under $900 billion.  If interest rates rise, bond values would decline and the
central bank’s payments to the Treasury could disappear for
years, according to Fed research. This could lead to a situation
in which the central bank ends up monetizing deficits, according
to Mishkin, Greenlaw and their coauthors.  ‘Extended Period’  Powell said that “an extended period of zero remittances
could certainly bring the Federal Reserve under criticism from
the public and Congress.”  “The question is whether the Federal Reserve would permit
inflation and thereby abandon its post in the face of such
criticism,” Powell said. “There is no reason to expect that to
happen.”  Concerns about a fiscal crisis coinciding with Fed losses
are misplaced, he said.  “The argument has a serious timing problem,” Powell said.
“The Federal Reserve’s balance sheet likely will be normalized
by late this decade, before the federal debt-to-GDP ratio even
increases materially from today’s level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  