-- Fed Dealer Borrowing Hits Almost 1-Year High After FOMC Reading
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-02-22T14:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/fed-dealer-borrowing-hits-almost-1-year-high-after-fomc-reading.html
Primary dealers  borrowed  the most
Treasuries from the Federal Reserve yesterday in almost a year
amid speculation they sought to unwind bets that debt prices
would fall.  Lending of U.S. notes and bonds in the central bank’s daily
 program  rose to $21.57 billion, an increase of 10 percent from
the Feb. 20 level and the highest borrowing by dealers since
March 2012. Total Treasuries lending rose to $22.28 billion,
also the highest since March, according to data on the  New York 
Fed’s website.  Treasuries rallied Feb. 20 after the central bank released
minutes of its policy-making committee meeting Jan. 29-30 that
showed continued debate about how long to undertake open-ended
bond buying to bolster the economy. Minutes from the Dec. 12
meeting, released Jan. 3, had fueled short position, or wagers
that Treasuries would fall, on speculation the central bank may
curtail monetary stimulus sooner that forecast.  “This week’s FOMC minutes were viewed going into them as
having a larger risk to be hawkish or that is negative for the
Treasury market,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist
at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “At least
anecdotally, as well as through some of the surveys, there
seemed to be a reasonable short base going into the minutes. The
fact that the Fed didn’t come out in any particularly hawkish
way led to a bit of a rally.”  Yield Path  The Treasury 10-year note yield reached close to the
highest in 10 months on Feb. 20. The yield, which touched 2.05
percent, fell to 1.97 percent today in part as the minutes
provided a less clear signal on the Fed’s exit plan.  Fed officials “emphasized that the committee should be
prepared to vary the pace of asset purchases, either in response
to changes in the economic outlook or as its evaluation of the
efficacy and costs of such purchases evolved,” according to the
January minutes.  Primary dealers expect the Fed to reduce the pace of asset
purchases by the beginning of 2014, with a majority anticipating
an end to mortgage-bond purchases by January, a survey showed.
The median respondent in the survey by the Fed Bank of New York
saw the central bank buying $20 billion in Treasuries per month
and no mortgage securities in January 2014, according to the
survey conducted before the FOMC meeting.  The central bank is buying $85 billion in Treasury and
mortgage debt a month as part of its third round of quantitative
easing, aimed to keep long-term  interest rates  low to bolster
growth.  ’Short Base’  “There was a short base that kind of got squeezed out with
them expecting the minutes to follow those from the December
FOMC, which had gone into a little bit more detail about the
Fed’s balance sheet than people had anticipated,” said Todd Colvin, a senior vice president at futures broker R.J. O’Brien &
Associates in  Chicago . “These minutes were kind of a tug of
war. They had sort of a more dovish tone than expected and you
saw the market get squeezed.”  Last week, Treasury sold $32 billion of three-year notes,
$24 billion 10-year notes and $16 billion of 30-year bonds.
After the Treasury completes sales of new debt, dealers
typically look to cover shorts build up before the auctions,
which they’re required to bid on.  The Fed offers  Treasury securities  held in its System Open
Market Account, or SOMA, for loan on an overnight basis to
dealers against Treasury general collateral. Dealers bid in a
multiple-price auction held every day at noon New York time.  When securities are hard to obtain in the outright or
repurchase agreement market, dealers can go to the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  to borrow the debt through its SOMA
Securities  Lending Program . Demand for specific securities
typically rises when dealers have to cover so-called short
positions, or bets Treasury prices will decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  