-- Fed Officials Reject Warning Losses May Weaken FOMC Clout
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-02-22T20:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/fed-officials-reject-warning-losses-may-weaken-fomc-clout.html
Two  Federal Reserve policy makers 
rejected a warning from economists that potential losses on the
Fed’s $3.1 trillion balance sheet may undermine central bank
control of monetary policy.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said today “this
discussion does not do justice to the policy trade-offs” of the
Fed’s large-scale asset purchases, referring to a paper written
by four economists, including Frederic Mishkin, a former Fed
governor and co-author with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . Fed
Governor Jerome Powell dismissed a suggestion policy makers
won’t act to curb inflation.  The Fed’s hold on policy may weaken should possible losses
on its balance sheet coincide with high U.S. budget deficits and
an inability of Congress and the White House to put fiscal
policy on a sustainable path, according to the economists’ paper
presented at the U.S. Monetary Policy Forum in New York. The
audience included at least eight policy makers on the  Federal
Open Market Committee .  “The combination of a massively expanded central bank
balance sheet and an unsustainable public debt trajectory is a
mix that has the potential to substantially reduce the
flexibility of monetary policy,” the economists said. “This
mix could induce a bias toward slower exit or easier policy, and
be seen as the first step toward fiscal dominance. It could
thereby be the cause of longer-term inflation expectations and
raise the risk of inflation overall.”  One source of risk is possible criticism from Congress,
Mishkin said during the conference.  Fed Attacked  “We are in a period where the attacks on the  Federal
Reserve System  are the worst I’ve seen in my 40 years as a
monetary policy economist,” he said. Concern about any
evaporation of Fed profits could “come up big time in
Congress.”  The Fed is currently purchasing $85 billion a month of
Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, following two
previous rounds totaling $2.3 trillion, in an effort to lower an
 unemployment rate  stuck near 7.9 percent. Once the economy
strengthens, the central bank plans to unwind its balance sheet
by raising  interest rates  and selling many of the assets
acquired over the past four years.  Rosengren said the economists’ paper on the large-scale
asset purchases “highlights a potential problem” that the
Fed’s remittances to the  U.S. Treasury  may fall.  Full Employment  Still, “the LSAP program improves the broader fiscal
outlook by lowering interest rates and providing more economic
growth,” while also helping the Fed promote full employment and
hit its 2 percent inflation target, he said. “We do well to
also consider these benefits, and the costs of inaction, when
evaluating policy.”  A model used by the Boston Fed estimates that an additional
$750 billion in asset purchases would reduce long-term interest
rates by 0.2 percentage point to 0.25 percentage point,
resulting in a $260 billion gain to economic output, Rosengren
said. The model also estimates the stimulus would lower the
jobless rate, he said.  Policy makers and economists at the conference debated
whether the central bank should be concerned about the prospect
of losses.  The Fed would sell assets as a stronger economy generated
higher  tax revenue , said  Julia Coronado , a former Fed economist
and chief economist for North America at BNP Paribas in New
York. “What a beautiful world that will be.”  ‘Beautiful World’  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said he’s “not so
sure it’s a beautiful world.”  Paying billions in interest on excess reserves at a time
the Fed is paying nothing to the Treasury “sounds like a recipe
for political problems,” he said.  Powell said in a paper that policy makers “have the
flexibility to normalize the balance sheet more slowly.”  “For example, a ‘no asset sale’ plan -- under which assets
would simply run off as they mature -- would push out the date
of normalization by only a year or so,” he said. “That
approach would also address concerns over potential market
disruption.’  Powell’s remarks are a departure from the Fed’s current
“exit strategy,” adopted in June 2011, which calls for selling
assets to return the balance sheet to a normal size and
composition.  “Unfavorable fiscal arithmetic might tend to push the Fed
toward delaying its exit from the extraordinary easing measures
it has taken in recent years; it could even affect decisions
this year about how much further to expand the Fed’s holdings of
longer-term  government securities ,” the economists said.  ‘Effective Drain’  “The Fed could cut its effective drain on the Treasury
significantly by putting off asset sales and delaying policy
rate increases,” they said. “But such a response would
presumably feed rising inflation expectations.”  Powell said the central bank may come under fire after a
period of not turning a surplus over to Treasury.  The Fed recently released a paper showing that the income
it has traditionally earned from its policies could disappear
for years as interest rates rise. After paying its expenses, the
central bank returns any surplus to Treasury to help fund the
expenses of the U.S. government. In 2012, the Fed returned $88.9
billion to taxpayers.  “An extended period of zero remittances could certainly
bring the  Federal Reserve  under criticism from the public and
Congress,” Powell said.  Abandon Post  “The question is whether the Federal Reserve would permit
inflation and thereby abandon its post in the face of such
criticism,” he said. “There is no reason to expect that to
happen.”  The U.S. Monetary Policy Forum is sponsored by the
Initiative on Global Markets at the University of Chicago Booth
School of Business.  In addition to Mishkin, now an economist at  Columbia
University , the authors of the paper are David Greenlaw, chief
U.S. fixed income economist for Morgan Stanley; James D. Hamilton, a professor of economics at the  University of
California  in  San Diego ; Peter Hooper, chief economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  Hooper and Greenlaw are both former Fed economists, while
Hamilton’s research on bond yields has been cited by Bernanke as
justification for the Fed’s policies.  The audience at the conference included Fed governor  Jeremy Stein , the New York Fed’s William C. Dudley,  Narayana Kocherlakota  of Minneapolis,  John Williams  of  San Francisco  and
 Dennis Lockhart  of Atlanta.  Stocks Rise  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to
1,512.14 at 3:01 p.m. in New York, while the yield on the 10-
year Treasury note slid one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.97 percent.  The  Congressional Budget Office  forecasts that the
government will run deficits averaging nearly $700 billion from
2014 to 2023 in its baseline scenario.  “The bottom line is that no matter how strong the
commitment of a central bank to an inflation target, fiscal
dominance can override it,” the economists said in their paper.
“Without long-run fiscal sustainability, no central bank will
be able to keep inflation low and stable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  