-- Finmeccanica Removes Helicopter Head After Graft Probe Fells CEO
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-22T07:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/finmeccanica-removes-helicopter-head-after-graft-probe-fells-ceo.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  delayed publication
of its annual earnings and replaced some executives, including
the head of the helicopter unit at the heart of a bribery probe
that felled Chief Executive Officer Giuseppe Orsi this month.  Financial results, due March 12, may be delayed until
April, the company said in a statement late yesterday. The Rome-
based company also added members to its so-called surveillance
board and tightened its internal audit operations to improve
oversight over activities.  “Finmeccanica is determined to continue with the
implementation of the restructuring plan of the group, in
particular in some areas of activity, in order to achieve a
significant and sustainable recovery of profitability and the
ability to generate  cash flow ,” the company said.  Italy’s largest aerospace and defense company has been
shaken by the arrest this month of Orsi on alleged fraud and  tax
evasion  related to the sale of 12 AW101 helicopter to  India .
Orsi, who denies the charges, has since been stripped of his CEO
role, which was handed Chief Operating Officer Alessandro Pansa
and resigned the chairman title.  Finmeccanica previously announced the goal of raising 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) through disposals to reduce debt of
around 4.8 billion euros. The strategy is again under review
even as the process continues to sell the Ansaldo Energia
business, with offers now in hand, it said. The “portfolio of
activities” is under review, which may led to the
“deconsolidation of assets” to cut debt, Finmeccanica said.  Helicopter Head  Bruno Spagnolini, the head of AgustaWestland who is under
house arrest, has been replaced with Daniele Romiti,
Finmeccanica said. Other personnel changes include the
appointment of Luigi Pasquali as head of the Telespazio space
business, replacing Carlo Gualdaroni, and Alessandro Franzoni,
who is taking over the torpedo-building Whitehead Sistemi
Subacquei unit from Renzo Lunardi.  At a meeting yesterday, the board was presented with a plan
for structural changes in the main aerospace, defense and
security operations to cut costs. Among those are efforts to
streamline European defense electronic activities, including job
cuts, as three business units are folded into one.  Finmeccanica also may delay its annual general meeting to
approve full year results. The gathering will take place by June
29, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  