-- Fox Seeks to Block Dish TV’s New ‘On the Go’ Features
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-02-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/fox-seeks-to-block-dish-tv-s-new-on-the-go-features.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting unit
asked for a court order to block new “on-the-go” features of
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH) ’s Hopper set-top boxes that allow consumers
to watch live and recorded TV shows on smartphones and tablets.  Fox sought a preliminary injunction yesterday in federal
court in Los Angeles. Fox alleges the new services breach its
license agreement with Dish and infringe the network’s
copyrights.  “Paying Dish for a satellite television subscription does
not buy anyone the right to receive Fox’s live broadcast signal
over the Internet or to make copies of Fox programs to watch ‘on
the go,’ because Dish does not have the right to offer these
services to its subscribers in the first place,” Fox said in
the filing.  Fox last year failed to persuade a federal judge to block
Dish’s AutoHop service that lets viewers automatically skip the
ads in recorded primetime television shows. The network appealed
that decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco,
which hasn’t ruled on the issue.  The new features in the second-generation Hopper set-top
box send live broadcast signals over the Internet to
subscribers’ personal computers and mobile devices and also
allow subscribers to copy recorded programs from the digital
video recorder to their iPads, Fox said.  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish
Network, didn’t immediately return a call yesterday after
regular business hours seeking comment on Fox’s filing.  A hearing on Fox’s request is set for March 22, according
to yesterday’s filing.  The case is Fox Broadcasting Co. v. Dish Network LLC,
12-04529, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California 
(Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  