-- France Seen Growing 0.1% by EU, Short of Hollande’s Estimate
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-02-22T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/france-seen-growing-0-1-by-eu-short-of-hollande-s-estimate.html
French growth  this year will fall
short of the government’s goal and the country won’t meet its
budget-deficit target, the European Commission predicted.  France ’s  gross domestic produc t will expand 0.1 percent, the
commission said, compared with the government’s 0.8 percent
forecast. This year’s deficit will be 3.7 percent of GDP and not
the 3 percent target set by the government, it said.  French President Francois Hollande and Finance Minister
Pierre Moscovici have telegraphed in recent weeks that the euro
area’s second-largest economy would miss its targets, blaming
slowing economies elsewhere in  Europe . Moscovici has said he’s
opposed to further tax increases to hit nominal deficit targets,
saying it’s more important to focus on structural measures that
ignore swings in economic activity.  “If we have a deeper recession, we’ll have an even tougher
time hitting our targets,” Moscovici told journalists Feb. 18
in Paris. “We should not add austerity to the recession that’s
already out there.”  The French government has said it will present its own
updated forecasts in late March or April.  French growth will still be better than the euro area as a
whole, which is expected to shrink 0.3 percent.  The French economy was flat last year and will grow 1.2
percent in 2014 with unchanged policies, the Commission said.  Rising Unemployment  Unemployment will rise to 10.7 percent of the workforce
this year and to 11.0 percent next year from 10.3 percent in
2012, the Commission said. Hollande is confronting joblessness
at a 15-year high as companies from carmaker  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) 
to Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co seek to close factories.  Hollande’s 2013 budget included 20 billion euros of tax
increases spread evenly between companies and individuals,
including higher taxes on wealth, capital gains and inheritance.
A two-year 75 percent surcharge on income over 1 million euros
($1.35 million) was ruled unconstitutional by the country’s top
administrative court.  Hollande has called on government departments to tighten
their belts after pledging to cut public spending by 60 billion
euros over five years.  Moscovici says those measures have cut France’s structural
deficit by two percentage points of GDP.  French government debt will climb to 93.4 percent of
economic output from 90.3 percent, the Commission forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  