-- G4S Drops on HSBC Concern About Margin Pressures: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-02-22T10:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/g4s-drops-on-hsbc-concern-about-margin-pressures-london-mover.html
G4S Plc (GFS)  fell the most in almost four
months after HSBC downgraded the world’s largest security
company on concern profitability is under pressure, just three
days after the stock recovered from a Summer Olympics debacle.  The  shares  declined as much as 4.9 percent, the biggest
drop since Nov. 8, and were down 1.9 percent at 10:33 a.m.,
paring the gain this year to 11 percent. G4S was the worst
performer in the FTSE 100 Index and the volume of shares traded
was about 15 percent more than the three-month daily average.  “The market is disproportionately focused on G4S’ U.K.
public sector travails,” Alex Magni, an HSBC analyst, said in a
note cutting G4S to  underweight  from neutral. “Instead we think
margin pressure is a bigger concern.”  The U.K. stripped the Crawley, England-based company of a
contract to operate the Wolds prison in November and excluded it
from a contest to manage several other facilities in the wake of
its failure to supply enough security staff for the London
Olympics. That forced the government to draft in extra troops to
augment protection for athletes and spectators.  G4S declined 17 percent in four days in July after the
company said it couldn’t handle its Olympics responsibilities.
On Feb. 19 the shares closed higher than the pre-crisis price
for the first time.  G4S fired two executives in September as a result of the
Olympics fiasco and said 10 days ago it would incur a loss of 70
million pounds on the contract, with additional costs of about
18 million pounds of donations together with sponsorship and
marketing costs. That was less than expected.  Margin Pressure  U.K. public sector work accounts for only 10 percent of the
company’s revenue, Magni said. “A much bigger risk is
building” in weak pricing for the provision of security
services, he said.  “Margins are under greater pressure,” particularly in
Britain, “where manned security rates have fallen well behind
minimum wage trends,” he said. “We do see latent risk in other
developed markets where real wages for basic services have been
negative for several years.”  G4S would need a “distinct improvement” in hourly billing
rates to recuperate its margins, said Magni.  G4S garners more than half of its revenue outside  Europe 
and has been looking to expand into higher-growth markets, where
about one-third of company profit is generated, according to
Chief Executive Officer Nick Buckles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  