-- German Business Sentiment May Reach Eight-Month High
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-22T07:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/german-business-sentiment-may-reach-eight-month-high-in-february.html
German business confidence probably
rose to an eight-month high in February, adding to signs that
 Europe ’s largest economy is gathering strength.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will climb to 104.9 from 104.2 in
January, according to the median of 38 forecasts in a  Bloomberg
News survey . That would be the fourth straight gain. Ifo
releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  The Bundesbank said this week it expects the economy to
return to growth in the current quarter after contracting 0.6
percent in the final three months of last year. Investor
confidence jumped to the highest in almost three years in
February and the benchmark  DAX share index  has advanced 10
percent in the past three months.  “Early indicators signal that the German economy is on a
relatively reliable upward trend and that momentum is
returning,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in
Hanover. “We might see respectable growth in the first
quarter.”  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations probably rose to
101.4 from 100.5 in January, while a gauge of the current
situation may have climbed to 108.5 from 108, the survey shows.  Germany ’s fourth-quarter contraction was caused by a 2
percent drop in exports and a 0.7 percent decline in company
investment, the Federal Statistics Office said in a detailed
breakdown of gross domestic product today.  Euro-Area Contraction  With Italy and Spain, the euro region’s third- and fourth-
largest members, mired in recessions, the European Central Bank
predicts the 17-nation economy will contract 0.3 percent this
year. That compares with a Bundesbank forecast for 0.4 percent
growth in Germany.  Euro-area services and manufacturing contracted at a faster
pace than economists forecast in February, a report from London-
based  Markit Economics  showed yesterday.  European Union car sales fell to the lowest level for a
January in at least 23 years, the Brussels-based European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association said this week. MAN SE,
the commercial-vehicle maker controlled by Germany’s Volkswagen
AG, said on Feb. 8 it may slow investments and will work to cut
spending as the region’s economic weakness hampers earnings.  ‘Remarkable’ Improvement  Still, there are signs that the German economy is
strengthening. Factory orders rose 0.8 percent in December,
industrial production climbed for the first time in five months
and exports rose. Unemployment fell for a second month in
January, lowering the  jobless rate  to 6.8 percent.  Germany’s outlook “has improved relatively quickly and in
remarkable fashion in the past three months,” the Bundesbank
said in its monthly report this week. “For the first quarter of
2013 an expansion of overall economic output can be expected
from today’s perspective. For the remainder of the year, a
gradual economic recovery is on the cards.”  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest maker of
cement, on Feb. 7 reported fourth-quarter profit and sales that
beat analysts’ estimates.  SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of business-
management software, last month forecast a gain in full-year
earnings of at least 12 percent.  “Hard data, especially industrial production, will catch
up with expectations in the coming months,” said Anatoli Annenkov, senior economist at Societe Generale in  London . “I’m
confident about a rebound in the first quarter. But the
lingering question for thereafter is how weak the development in
Italy and Spain will be and how much it will drag down the
German economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  