-- German Notes Gain as Banks Pay Back Fewer ECB Loans
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-02-22T16:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/german-10-year-bunds-are-little-changed-after-gdp-shrinks.html
German notes rose, pushing two-year
yields to a five-week low, as the  European Central Bank  said
financial institutions will repay less emergency loans than
forecast, suggesting they remain wary of lending to each other.  Austrian and Dutch two-year securities also gained after
the ECB announced 356 banks will hand back 61.1 billion euros
($80.4 billion) next week. The median forecast of economists in
a Bloomberg News survey was for 122.5 billion euros. Italian and
Spanish bonds advanced after an Ifo institute report showed
business confidence in Germany, Europe’s largest economy, jumped
to a 10-month high in February. Italy’s two-year notes rose for
the first time in six days.  “The number was lower than the market was expecting and
that’s that making German notes rally,” said Mohit Kumar, head
of  Europe  and U.K. rates strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .
“It shows there is more excess liquidity in the system and that
means monetary policy is accommodative and core rates will stay
low.”  Germany’s two-year yield fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 0.12 percent at 4:33 p.m. London time, the
lowest level since Jan. 17. The price of the 0.25 percent
security due March 2015 rose 0.095, or 95 euro cents per 1,000-
euro face amount, to 100.26.  The 10-year bund yield was little changed at 1.57 percent
after climbing three basis points to 1.60 percent.  Core Rates  Volatility on Dutch bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets, followed by those of Belgium and  Germany , according to
measures of 10-year debt, the spread between two-year and 10-
year securities and credit-default swaps.  Austria’s two-year yield declined four basis points to 0.15
percent and the rate on similar-maturity Dutch notes slipped six
basis points to 0.21 percent.  Futures traders decreased bets that interbank borrowing
costs will rise after the ECB’s announcement.  The implied yield on the three-month Euribor futures
contract expiring in December dropped as much as eight basis
points to 0.31 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the lowest rate since Jan. 11.  Three-month Euribor, the rate at which European banks say
they see each other lending in euros, was at 0.218 percent
today, according to data from the European Banking Federation.
That’s the least since Jan. 25.  Business Sentiment  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 107.4.
That’s the fourth straight gain and the highest since April,
fueling speculation that the euro-region crisis is easing.  Italy’s 10-year yield fell five basis points to 4.45
percent. The rate on similar-maturity Spanish bonds also dropped
five basis points, to 5.15 percent.  “The Ifo is good news,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior
fixed-income strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan. “The focus
is also on the Italian elections. There’s a bit of a rally in
Italian and Spanish bonds, which to me signals investors have
positioned themselves for the different scenarios and are
waiting to see what the outcome is.”  Italian two-year notes snapped their longest losing streak
since October as election candidates prepared to hold separate
press conferences tonight in a bid to win over voters before the
Feb. 24-25 elections.  The two-year yield fell four basis points to 1.68 percent,
still heading for a 10-basis point weekly increase.  German bunds handed investors a loss of 1.2 percent this
year through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Italian bonds returned 0.6 percent and Spanish debt
2.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  