-- German Fourth-Quarter Slump Caused by Exports, Investment
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-02-22T07:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/german-fourth-quarter-slump-caused-by-exports-investment-1-.html
Germany ’s economic contraction in
the fourth quarter was driven by a drop in exports and
investment as the sovereign debt crisis damped euro-area demand,
a breakdown of the data shows.  Exports fell 2 percent from the third quarter and company
investment in plant and machinery declined 0.7 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Gross
domestic product dropped 0.6 percent, the office said,
confirming an initial estimate on Feb. 14. From a year earlier,
the economy grew 0.4 percent when adjusted for working days.  Europe ’s largest economy should avoid recession and return
to growth this quarter as industrial production picks up, the
Bundesbank said on Feb. 18. While unemployment at a two-decade
low and exports to  emerging markets  are helping Germany to
weather the euro-area recession, uncertainty over Europe’s path
out of the debt crisis could still weigh on the recovery.  “We should return to growth in the first quarter and
investment should resume its upward trend in the course of this
year,” said Lothar Hessler, an economist at HSBC Trinkaus &
Burkhardt AG in Dusseldorf, who expects the economy to expand
0.6 percent in 2013. “The risks to this outlook are a possible
re-eruption of the European crisis after elections in  Italy , or
continued uncertainty about the U.S. fiscal cliff.”  Household spending rose 0.1 percent in the fourth quarter
and public spending increased 0.4 percent, today’s report
showed. Domestic demand added 0.2 percentage point to GDP, while
net trade subtracted 0.8 percentage point.  Euro-Area Recession  The recession in the 17-nation euro area deepened in the
fourth quarter, with GDP falling by a more-than-forecast 0.6
percent, damping demand for German goods in the country’s
largest export market.  While measures of economic confidence in Europe have risen,
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has said he expects
further weakness in the region’s economy in the first half of
the year followed by a “very gradual” recovery.  The ECB forecasts a 0.3 percent contraction for the euro
area this year, while the Bundesbank predicts 0.4 percent growth
in Germany.  German business confidence probably rose to an eight-month
high this month, adding to signs of gathering economic momentum.
That report is due from the Ifo institute in Munich at 10 a.m.
today.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG, Germany’s biggest cable
television operator, said on Feb. 20 it would boost investment
in its network by 300 million euros ($396 million) over two
years as sales beat expectations.  “The German economy is beginning to move again,” said
Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “Exports
should grow this year, although perhaps not by much. But a
backlog in investment caused by the debt crisis could begin to
be cleared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  