-- GM South Korean Unit to Spend $7.3 Billion to Expand
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-02-22T19:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/gm-south-korean-unit-to-spend-7-3-billion-to-expand.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
second-largest automaker, announced plans to invest 8 trillion
won ($7.3 billion) over five years to expand in South Korea,
saying the market remains important to the company.  The GM Korea unit will boost manufacturing facilities and
double the size of its design center this year making it the
company’s third-largest after the U.S. and  Brazil , the Detroit-
based automaker said in a statement today.  “GM Korea will continue to play a major role in our global
growth plans,” Tim Lee, GM international operations head, said
in the statement. The investment “reinforces our commitment to
GM Korea,” he said.  The automaker is increasing investment at the unit from 1
trillion won a year as it starts building new models to compete
with a resurgent  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  The maker of the Prius
regained the top spot in global sales from GM last year.  GM reported a third straight year of profit in 2012, led by
sales in the U.S. and  China , while losses in  Europe  more than
doubled. The company is counting on Asia for growth outside the
U.S. as it expects European demand will fall further this year.  GM vehicles produced in South Korea are exported to 150
markets on six continents, the company said in October. The
South Korean operations have helped bolster GM’s product lineup
in China and the rest of Asia with smaller cars such as the
Cruze.  Global Sales  The investment in Asia comes as GM competes with Toyota
City, Japan-based Toyota and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  for the title of No.
1 global vehicle seller.  Toyota overtook GM last year to again become the best-
selling automaker in the world. The U.S. automaker finished No.
2, outselling VW by more than 130,000 deliveries. The Wolfsburg,
Germany-based automaker, aided by growth in Asia, aims to become
the world’s biggest by 2018.  GM clung to its lead as the best-selling foreign automaker
in China last year even as VW’s sales rose 24.5 percent to 2.81
million, which unlike GM includes Hong Kong in its tally. China
sales of GM and its joint-venture partners rose 11 percent to a
record 2.84 million last year compared to 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  