-- Goldman Has No ‘Direct Access’ to Data on Heinz Account
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-02-22T18:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/goldman-has-no-direct-access-to-data-on-heinz-account-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  doesn’t
have “direct access” to information about the beneficial owner
behind transactions in an account in which the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission said suspicious trading of  H.J. Heinz
Co. (HNZ)  occurred, the bank told the regulator.  The SEC on Feb. 15 sued “unknown” traders over suspicious
trading of Heinz’s options through what the regulator said was
an account at Goldman Sachs. The SEC will ask a federal judge in
 Manhattan  at a hearing set for today to freeze the account’s
assets until the case is resolved. The New York-based bank told
the agency the account holder is a Zurich private-wealth client,
the SEC said in a court filing.  “Goldman informed me that it does not have direct access
to information about the beneficial owner or owners behind any
particular transaction or position” in the account, SEC senior
counsel Megan Bergstrom wrote.  The trades at issue in the SEC’s lawsuit came a day before
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and 3G Capital Inc.
announced a $23 billion takeover of Pittsburgh-based Heinz, the
agency said in its complaint. Using a Zurich-based account that
involved call-option contracts, the unidentified traders’
unrealized profit was more than $1.7 million, according to the
SEC.  The SEC has also asked Swiss authorities for assistance in
the effort to identify the traders. Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority, known as Finma, will cooperate with the
SEC’s request “within the framework of our mandate,” Christina
Buergi, a spokeswoman for Finma, said in a phone interview.
Buergi said the request had been made “recently” and declined
to comment further.  Initial Conference  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff scheduled an initial
conference in the case today. Rakoff temporarily froze the
assets in the account on Feb. 15 at the SEC’s request and also
issued an order prohibiting the defendants from destroying or
disposing records of any kind related to the transaction.  The SEC on Feb. 20 asked Rakoff to keep the assets frozen
until the case is resolved, saying there is a “serious risk
that the substantial proceeds from the defendants trading will
leave the jurisdiction of the U.S. courts in the next few days
and may never be recovered,” according to a court filing.  Rakoff said any traders who object to a permanent asset
freeze must appear before him today to explain why he shouldn’t
grant the SEC’s request.  The unidentified traders are “foreign traders and trade
through a foreign account,” the SEC said.  Trade Blotter  The commission provided a redacted copy of a trade blotter
for the account described as “a Goldman Sachs omnibus firm
customer facilitation account,” which shows that from Sept. 1
through Feb. 13, the only trading in Heinz occurred on the day
before the takeover of the ketchup maker.  The SEC described the account as “GS Bank IC Buy Open
Listed Options, GS & CO C/O Zurich Office.”  Since the Heinz takeover announcement, the traders’ option
purchases have settled and can be liquidated at any time, the
SEC said. SEC staff attorney  David Brown  said that on Feb. 15,
he informed Goldman Sachs representatives about the agency’s
plans and also asked the bank to “use whatever means they
have” to contact the traders.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in  New York  said this
week that it’s also investigating the matter and is working with
the SEC.  The defendants, using the Goldman Sachs account, invested
almost $90,000 in option positions the day before the deal was
announced, the SEC said. As a result, their position increased
to more than $1.8 million, a rise of almost 2,000 percent.  Omnibus Account  The SEC said that the traders had advance material
nonpublic information about the impending deal when they used an
omnibus account in Zurich to buy 2,533 out-of-the-money June
call options, which had a strike price of $65 on Feb. 13. Shares
closed that day at $60.48.  The purchase of the options, which expire on June 22, was
highly unusual, the SEC said. On Feb. 12, only 14 were
purchased, regulators said, while on Feb. 11, no such options
were bought. Since Nov. 14, no more than 61 such contracts had
been purchased on any other single day, the commission said.  Trading in the options gives the right to buy the
underlying shares and profit when the stock rises. The timing
and size of the trades were deemed highly suspicious by the SEC
because the accounts through which the traders purchased the
options had no history of trading Heinz securities in the last
six months.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Certain Unknown Traders in Securities of H.J. Heinz Co., 13-
cv-1080, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  