-- Microsoft, VF, CIAA, Nolo, RIAA : Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-02-22T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/microsoft-vf-ciaa-nolo-riaa-intellectual-property.html
The top lawyers for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , saying software patents are important drivers
of U.S. innovation and economic growth, pressed Congress
yesterday to reject calls to limit that legal protection.  Companies including Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. have said
too many software patents are being used primarily to generate
lawsuits instead of contributing to new products and services.
Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, and Oracle say
discussions of ways to curtail litigation shouldn’t become an
excuse to limit the ability to patent software.  “My biggest concern, and the concern of many other
software companies, is that there’s going to be a move to
somehow reduce or diminish protection for software,” Oracle
General Counsel Dorian Daley said in an interview in  Washington .  Daley and her counterpart at Microsoft,  Brad Smith , joined
software and manufacturing executives meeting yesterday with
lawmakers and congressional staff members to defend patents for
computer programs.  “We have a patent system that has important strengths but
it also has some significant weaknesses,” Smith said in the
same interview.  Any new legislation should be directed at ways to reduce
litigation rather than undermining software patents, said  Robert
Holleyman , president of Washington-based  BSA  - The Software
Alliance.  One proposal Google, Microsoft and Oracle agree on is to
make the loser in a patent lawsuit pay the winner’s legal costs,
a move they say would discourage lawsuits by patent owners with
dubious claims.  Large technology companies are united in their ire at
owners of software patents who sue dozens or even hundreds of
companies claiming to have invented aspects of technologies
including online shopping, Internet mapping and tracking
delivery vehicles.  Of the more than 5,600 patent-infringement lawsuits filed
in the U.S. last year, more than 12 percent were filed by just
10 companies over software, according to Bloomberg Law data.  The issue has drawn the attention of President  Barack Obama , who on Feb. 14 said patent legislation he signed in 2011
“hasn’t captured all the problems” of the patent system, such
as the litigation by patent owners derisively called “trolls.”  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit, which
specializes in  patent law , is considering a case that could
determine when computer programs are eligible for legal
protection.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is holding meetings on
possible changes to the way it handles applications for software
programs, and is considering rules requiring more disclosure
about the “real party in interest” in patents and
applications.  Apple-Samsung Judge Says Companies Must Narrow Patent Suit  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co. must narrow their
patent-infringement lawsuit case scheduled for trial in 2014, a
judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh in  San Jose ,  California ,
told lawyers from both companies yesterday that they must
“focus and streamline” their cases to 25 patent claims, or
elements of the patents at issue, and 25 accused products.  Koh made the request from the bench in the latest of two
related patent cases. The lawsuit was filed last year and covers
technology in newer smartphones made by both companies,
including Samsung’s Galaxy S III and Apple’s iPhone 5.  “We’ll keep narrowing and narrowing,” Koh said. “You’ve
already been litigating this thing for a year; you must know
something about what’s your best case.”  In a filing last week, Cupertino, California-based Apple
included Samsung’s Galaxy Note smartphones and tablet computer
in the case. Samsung claimed “all generations” of Apple’s
iPhone and iPads infringe at least three of its patents,
according to its filing.  Koh last month rejected Apple’s request to add additional
damages to the first patent-infringement case between the two
companies in San Jose. In that case, a jury awarded Apple $1.05
billion, finding the Suwon, South Korea-based company infringed
six of the iPhone maker’s mobile-device patents.  Last year’s case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
Ltd., 11-cv-1846, the case scheduled for trial next year is
Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-cv-630, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  VF’s 7 For All Mankind Loses Trademark Lawsuit at EU Top Court  Jeans maker 7 For All Mankind lost a final bid to get the
European Union trademark rights to its name after the EU’s top
court ruled in favor of an Italian backpack manufacturer.  The EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg yesterday dismissed
an appeal by the company to get trademark rights across the 27-
nation bloc for “Seven For All Mankind.” The ruling can’t be
appealed.  The  VF Corp. (VFC)  unit previously won the rights to the name in
2010 when the bloc’s trademark authority in Alicante,  Spain ,
rejected a challenge by Italian company Seven SpA. The agency
said there was no likelihood of confusion with the Italian
company’s trademarks for the word Seven. A lower EU court later
overturned that decision.  The EU General Court in 2011 ruled that “there is a
certain overall similarity between the marks at issue” because
the presence of the word Seven in the names “is not
insignificant.”  That court, the region’s second-highest, “did not commit
the error of law alleged by the applicant,” the Court of
Justice ruled, dismissing all points of appeal that were raised.  7 For All Mankind first applied in 2005 for the EU
trademark to cover products such as jewelry, belts, suitcases
and backpacks. Representatives for VF in Greensboro,  North
Carolina , didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment
on the decision, or answer calls before regular office hours.  The case is: C-655/11 P, Seven for all mankind v. Seven.  CIAA Files Infringement Suit in Advance of Hoops Tournament  The  Central Intercollegiate Athletic Association , the 101-
year-old athletic conference composed of traditionally African-
American colleges, sued multiple defendants for trademark
infringement.  The Washington-based CIAA filed the suit in federal court
in  Charlotte , North Carolina, on Feb. 14, less than two weeks
before its  annual basketball tournament  is to be held in
Charlotte beginning Feb. 25.  Multiple entities are making unauthorized use of the
association’s marks to trade off its fame, according to the
complaint. The conference complained of infringing Internet
domain names, party planners’ and concert promoters’
unauthorized use of CIAA trademarks, and the sale of counterfeit
merchandise such as athletic gear and souvenirs.  Sellers of the fake merchandise move it from city to city,
using itinerant peddlers “without offices, identification,
licenses or addresses,” according to court papers.  During the tournament, local law enforcement officers are
dedicated to on-site safety and security and don’t have the
priority or the time to deal with counterfeiters as a criminal
matter, the CIAA said. As a result, the conference said an order
permitting seizure of unauthorized merchandise is needed.  Additionally, the conference asked for an order barring
future infringement of its marks, awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs, money damages, and the transfer of infringing
Internet domain names.  The case is Central Intercollegiate Athletic Association V.
Allure Life Entertainment Group LLC, 3:13-cv-98, U.S. District
Court, Western District of North Carolina (Charlotte).  Student Facebook Page Taken Down as School Says Mark Infringed  Following a request from school officials, students at  Sam
Houston State University  took down a page on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
social media site where students could use a Web-survey tool to
make any confession they wanted to make, the Houstonian
newspaper  reported .  Kris Ruiz, marketing director at the school, said trademark
concerns prompted the request for removal of the “SHSU
Confessions” page, according to the newspaper.  University policy is to respond to apparent violations
rather than seek them out, Ruiz said, according to the
Houstonian.  A new page with the same function was put up on Facebook as
“Prison City Confessions,” according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Internet Brands Unit Sued Over Divorce Handbook License  Internet Brands Inc.’s  Nolo  unit was sued for copyright
infringement by a competing provider of self-help legal
information.  Pennsylvania  Full Court Press Inc. claims Nolo had a
license for a limited period of time to publish and sell an
electronic edition of a book it produced. Nolo continued to sell
the product after the license expired in 2004, according to the
complaint filed Feb. 20 in federal court in Philadelphia.  Full Court Press said it lost sales and was otherwise
damaged as a result of Nolo’s conduct. The company asked the
court to order removal of its book -- “No-Fault Divorce in
Pennsylvania: A Guide to the Law, With Forms for Filing Your Own
Divorce” -- from all Nolo computers and for awards of money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  Internet Brands, based in El Segundo, California, didn’t
respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment on the
suit.  The case is Pennsylvania Full Court Press Inc. v. Nolo
Inc., 2:13-cv-00918, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  RIAA Says Takedown Requests Not Stopping Infringement  The  Recording Industry Association of America , the leader
among copyright owners requesting that  Google Inc. (GOOG)  take down
search results linking to allegedly infringing content, says the
company’s efforts haven’t had the desired effect.  In a  report released yesterday , Washington-based RIAA said
it analyzed the websites listed as “serial infringers” in
Google’s Copyright Transparency Report and found that they
“still managed to appear on page 1 of the search results over
98 percent of the time in the searches conducted.”  Authorized download sites such as Apple Inc.’s iTunes,
Amazon.com Inc. and eMusic only appeared in the top 10 results
for little more than half of the searches, the music-industry
trade group said in the report.  “In other words, whatever Google has done to its search
algorithms to change the ranking of infringing sites, it doesn’t
appear to be working,” RIAA said. More study of Google’s
response is needed, the group said.  According to  Google’s report , in the past month, RIAA was
the leading copyright owner reporting allegedly infringing
sites, listing almost 2.36 million URLs.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, said that in
the last six months of 2011,  it took down 97 percent of the
search results  specified in takedown requests made during that
period.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  