-- Microsoft Joins Apple, Facebook as Target of Cyberattack
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/microsoft-experienced-cyberattacks-similar-to-apple.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the largest
software maker, said a small number of its computers were
infected by malicious software in a cyberattack similar to those
experienced by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   There’s no evidence that customers were affected, Microsoft
said in a  blog post  yesterday. Some of the techniques were
similar to those documented by others, and the investigation is
ongoing, Microsoft said.  The incident follows recent attacks that hit more than 40
companies, including microblogging service Twitter Inc., and
were linked to an Eastern European hacker gang trying to steal
company secrets,  Bloomberg News  reported Feb. 20, citing two
people familiar with the matter.  “This type of cyberattack is no surprise to Microsoft and
other companies that must grapple with determined and persistent
adversaries,” the company said in the blog post.  In the Apple breach, some the company’s internal Mac
computers were infected by malware spread through an iPhone-
developer website, according to the people familiar with law
enforcement’s investigations. Apple said it had no evidence that
any data was stolen.  Facebook, operator of the largest social network with more
than 1 billion members, said Feb. 16 that some of its employees’
laptops were infected after visiting a mobile developer’s site.
Twitter, the microblogging site with more than 200 million
active users, said Feb. 2 that hackers may have accessed
information on 250,000 users.  Security professionals call the recent incidents
“waterhole attacks,” since the hackers were targeting a
desirable class of victims -- in this case, software developers
congregating at a communal gathering place, like a waterhole in
the desert -- rather than specific companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  