-- IGT Proxy Fight Exposes Slot Machines’ Loss of Pull
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-22T21:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/igt-proxy-fight-exposes-slot-machines-loss-of-pull.html
International Game Technology (IGT) 
Chairman Philip Satre, locked in a fight over board seats, said
the world’s largest slot-machine maker has to invest online
because young people don’t gamble as much as their parents.  “They won’t sit at a machine for two hours or three
hours,” Satre, 63, said in an interview. “It is to me one of
the biggest single challenges for the gaming industry, having
products that are relevant to this new generation.”  IGT’s slot-machine business and its move into online games
are the focus of a battle coming to a head at the March 5 annual
meeting. Jason Ader, a  New York  money manager and former casino
analyst, has proposed three nominees to the eight-person board,
including ex-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charles Mathewson. Among their gripes: IGT has neglected its core
business and wasted money on online acquisitions.  Baby boomers , who make up the core player constituency for
Las Vegas-based IGT, are gambling less than they used to, Satre
said. Younger patrons, meanwhile, spend more money on
restaurants, nightclubs and shows, even in casinos, he said.
 Nevada  and  New Jersey  are among the states moving to legalize
online gambling by residents.  Satre, who was CEO of Harrah’s Entertainment until 2003,
said the acquisitions of online companies provided needed
technology. IGT spent as much as $500 million last year for
Double Down Interactive, a maker of casino-like games for
Facebook.com. It paid about $115 million in 2011 for Entraction
Holdings AB, a European online gambling business.  Forty-six of IGT’s casino-industry customers are offering
Double Down’s social games on their websites, according to IGT.  Younger Players  “This is an incredible opportunity for us to take our
content that we’ve developed for our bricks and mortar casinos
and move it into another space,” Satre said. The goal is to
excite younger players through online play and get them to spend
more on slots when they do come to casinos, he said.  Proxy adviser Glass Lewis & Co. today recommended investors
back one of the Ader group’s nominees, Daniel Silvers, and
rejected Mathewson and Ray Brooks, according to statements from
the two sides. Institutional Shareholder Services backed Silvers
on Feb. 19, while Egan-Jones Proxy Services backed all of the
company’s nominees.  In public filings and on the website rescueigt.com, Ader’s
group has argued that IGT management, led by CEO Patti Hart, who
took over in April 2009, has neglected  slot machines  and
overspent on acquisitions.  Core Business  “IGT’s core business has historically been relatively
straightforward -- it designs, manufactures and distributes slot
machines and systems to casino operators,” Ader’s group said in
a presentation to stockholders released this month.  Innovations, such as slots that spit out paper vouchers
instead of coins, helped IGT double  North America  machine sales
in the first half of the 2000s, according to the presentation.  The stock is down about 30 percent from an October 2009
 high  under Hart, compared with a 37 percent increase for the  S&P
500 Index  over that time. The dissidents say the stock has
underperformed the market since the Double Down acquisition.  IGT rose 0.4 percent to $15.89 at the close in New York. It
has gained 12 percent this year,  beating  the S&P 500’s 6.3
percent advance.  Large casino companies aren’t replacing machines as fast as
they used to. Total sales of slot machines in North America fell
to 61,979 in 2010 from a recent peak of 136,619 in 2004,
according to Eilers Research LLC, based in Anaheim Hills,
 California . Last year’s sales totaled 90,447.  Major Customer  James Murren, chairman and chief executive of  MGM Resorts
International (MGM) , the largest operator on the  Las Vegas Strip  and
an IGT customer, said his company has been looking for ways to
extend the life of existing models.  “We’re not going to discard a machine after five years,”
Murren said in an interview. “It’s a symptom of a broader
issue, which is the manufacturing industry is rapidly changing.
The traditional model of selling boxes to operators is
obsolete.”  Mathewson, 83, who served as IGT’s chairman until 2003,
doesn’t dispute the company’s need to invest in online games.
Management could have done so more cheaply by developing know-
how in-house, he said in an interview.  IGT shut down the online poker business of Entraction in
September, a year after buying the company. While Mathewson says
that indicates management hadn’t done enough research on the
business, Satre counters that the company is keeping some of the
talent, which will be redeployed.  Satre also said management is taking steps to rebuild its
share of the North American slot machine business, which shrank
to 29 percent in 2010 from 66 percent seven years earlier,
according to Eilers. IGT’s share last year was 36 percent.  “This company was in a precipitous decline in performance
and it wasn’t just the recession,” Satre said.  The company has also seen an increase in customers
identifying IGT as producing the highest winnings per machine.  “We have regained share in our core products,” Satre
said. “We built up our studios. We brought in talent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  