-- Miles Says BOE Should Probably Loosen Policy to Bolster Recovery
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/miles-says-boe-should-probably-loosen-policy-to-bolster-recovery.html
Bank of England  policy maker  David Miles  said the central bank should probably increase stimulus
and look at new measures to boost Britain’s economic recovery.  “A good case can be made for more expansion,” Miles said
in a speech late yesterday in Bath,  England , adding that asset
purchases are not the only possible stimulus. “If there are
monetary-policy tools that are more reliably effective in
boosting demand, they should be used.”  Miles, along with Governor  Mervyn King  and  Paul Fisher , was
in the minority on the Monetary Policy Committee on Feb. 7 when
he voted to increase quantitative easing by 25 billion pounds
($38 billion). As Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , who will
succeed King in four months, spurs debate about policy options,
the MPC discussed steps from  interest-rate cuts  to measures to
boost credit at their meeting this month.  In his speech, Miles used a model to calculate what the
“optimal policy” for the U.K. should be given several
variables. His “base calibration” suggests that it should 16
percent more expansionary, or the equivalent of about 60 billion
pounds of bond purchases if implemented through QE.  Forecast Horizon  Under this policy, “toward the end of the forecast
horizon, the expected rate of inflation is somewhat higher than
at unchanged policy and slightly above the target level, and the
output gap is negative, so, the economy is likely to be
operating a bit above capacity,” Miles said.  In one scenario in his model in which the economy is
running below capacity by more than expected, policy makers may
need to increase QE by as much as 175 billion pounds, Miles
said. The central bank has bought 375 billion pounds of gilts
since it began its QE program in March 2009.  Britain’s economy shrank 0.3 percent in the  fourth quarter 
and King has forecast a “slow” recovery. Against that
backdrop, the MPC has said it’s right to “look through” the
protracted period of  inflation  above the BOE’s 2 percent target.  In response to audience questions, Miles said that while he
hopes the central bank can begin to normalize policy “not too
far down the road,” officials shouldn’t start to think about
that until the economic recovery has “some legs.”  In his speech at the University of Bath, Miles said that
the central bank’s current policy remit is “not restrictive”
and “allows inflation to deviate from target if this avoids
excessive fluctuations in output.”  Target Return  “There are no explicit guidelines for the period when
inflation needs to return to target,” he said. “But the MPC
needs to justify that its strategy is consistent with the spirit
of the remit.”  Miles said that inflation, which was at 2.7 percent in
January, “may go a bit higher” in the near term. Still,
“output and productivity remain far below trend; growth over
the past year or so has been close to zero.”  While U.K. inflation expectations haven’t moved
“dramatically,” policy makers must explain why price gains
have deviated so far from target and convince people that they
haven’t “lost sight” of their goal, Miles said in response to
audience questions. He added that consumers should be able to
increase spending this year as a squeeze on real incomes eases.  On productivity, Miles said the decline “has been a
reflection of very weak growth.”  “Starting from the specific situation in which we are
today, where productivity appears to have collapsed following
the decline in demand, I believe that some of the productivity
loss is cyclical,” he said. It “could be regained if demand
and output were to pick up again in the near future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  