-- Illinois Bid for Rehearing of Gun-Carry Appeal Rejected
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-22T19:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/illinois-bid-for-rehearing-of-gun-carry-appeal-rejected.html
Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan lost a bid for a rehearing of a federal appeals court
decision to void a state law prohibiting people from carrying
loaded guns outside their homes or usual places of business.  A three-judge panel of the Chicago-based U.S. Court of
Appeals struck down the state law in a 2-1 ruling issued Dec.
11. With nine of the court’s 10 active members voting, the
tribunal today rejected Madigan’s request for so-called en banc
reconsideration 5-4.  The December decision reversed two lower-court rulings
upholding the law, the only one of its kind in the U.S. The
panel delayed enforcement of its decision for 180 days to give
the state Legislature time to draft a replacement measure
consistent with public safety and the U.S. Constitution.  Writing for the court’s four dissenting members today, U.S.
Circuit Judge David Hamilton said the prior decision exceeded in
scope the U.S. Supreme Court’s 2008 ruling in District of
Columbia v. Heller that individuals have a right to bear arms.  “The Supreme Court has not yet decided whether the post-
Heller individual right to keep and bear arms at home under the
Second Amendment extends beyond the home,” Hamilton wrote,
echoing arguments Madigan made in her request for
reconsideration.  ‘Bear Arms’  The U.S. Constitution’s Second Amendment reads in full, “A
well regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free
state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not
be infringed.”  The December ruling was the first by a federal appeals
court to invalidate legislation that restricted the carrying of
firearms in public, according to today’s dissent.  The majority ruling written by U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner in December “leaves the state a good deal of
constitutional room for reasonable public safety measures
concerning public carrying of firearms,” Hamilton said.  Joining him in dissent were U.S. Circuit Judge Ann Claire Williams, who also dissented from the original ruling, along
with Ilana Diamond Rovner and Diane Wood.  The dissenting judges “provided a clear framework to guide
the Legislature in drafting a new law,” Maura Possley, a
spokeswoman for Madigan, said in an e-mailed statement.  “With the 180-day deadline still in place, it is critical
that the Legislature continue to work to enact a law that will
protect public safety,” she said.  The five judges who opposed the rehearing issued no
separate opinion today. Judge Michael Kanne didn’t participate
in the decision, according to a footnote in the nine-page
document.  The cases are Moore v. Madigan, 12-1269 and Shepard v.
Madigan, 12-1788, U.S.  Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  