-- India’s HDFC Bank Plans Dollar Bond Sale as CIFI Cancels Issue
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2013-02-22T08:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/india-s-hdfc-bank-plans-dollar-bond-sale-as-cifi-cancels-issue.html
HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) ,  India ’s largest
lender by market value, plans dollar-denominated debt as Asia-
Pacific sales rose to a three-week high. CIFI Holdings Group
Co., a Hong Kong-listed developer, canceled its note issue.  HDFC hired Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Standard Chartered Plc to arrange a series of
fixed-income meetings from Feb. 25, a person familiar with the
matter said today. CIFI decided not to proceed with its sale of
five-year dollar bonds due to unfavorable market conditions,
four people familiar with the matter said, asking not to be
identified because the details are private.  Dollar bond sales in the region reached $4.4 billion this
week, more than two times the $1.9 billion sold in the last five
business days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yield premiums 
on debt in the U.S. currency were 259 basis points more than
Treasuries Feb. 21, near a 20-month low of 245 basis-points
reached Jan. 7, JPMorgan indexes show.  “I think investors are cautiously bullish and are looking
for investment-grade paper,” Clifford Lee, the head of fixed-
income at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said by telephone. “There
will be strong demand for paper if the issue is in a segment
where there’s liquidity,” and a company’s financials are
“fundamentally strong,” he said.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 108.5 as of 2:22
p.m. in  Hong Kong , according to  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  prices.  CIFI Mismatch  CIFI, which is based in  Shanghai  and develops homes and
offices in  China , scrapped its bonds as the nation’s new home
prices rose in 53 of the 70 cities the government tracks in
January. Premier  Wen Jiabao  told cities that have had
“excessively fast” price gains to “promptly” impose home-
purchase restrictions if they’ve not done so already, according
to a Feb. 20 statement after a State Council meeting he headed.  The developer had been considering pricing five-year bonds
in the low-to-mid 11 percent range, according to another person
familiar with the matter and data compiled by Bloomberg.  “CIFI’s bonds suffered from a mismatch in terms of the
company’s expectations on pricing and what the market was
willing to pay,” said Brayan Lai, an analyst in emerging-market
credit trading at Jefferies Group Inc. in Singapore. “Headline
risks in the real estate sector probably mean that the market
needs to see a price premium.”  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index decreased 0.25 of a basis
point to 125 as of 15:01 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices
show. The benchmark is headed for its first weekly rise since
the week ended Dec. 7, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Australia index advanced 2 basis points
to 116 basis points as of 11:04 a.m. in Sydney, according to
National Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The benchmark is on track
to increase 2.3 basis points this week and set for its biggest
weekly rise since the five-day period ended Nov. 16, according
to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  