-- Indian Rupee Set for Third Weekly Drop on U.S. Stimulus Concern
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-02-22T04:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/indian-rupee-set-for-third-weekly-drop-on-u-s-stimulus-concern.html
India ’s rupee headed for a third
weekly drop on concern U.S. policy makers will slow debt
purchases that boosted the supply of dollars and contributed to
inflows to  emerging markets .  The currency fell to a one-month low yesterday after
minutes from the Federal Reserve’s last meeting issued Feb. 20
showed several officials prefer varying the pace of buying bonds.
Investors should consider purchasing the rupee as India’s
economic fundamentals are improving, according to Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. Inflation slowed to a three-year low of 6.62
percent in January and the  Reserve Bank  of India cut  interest
rates  last month for the first time since April.  “Markets overreacted to the minutes and should reassess
that view in the coming days,” analysts at BBH, including New
York-based  Marc Chandler , wrote in an e-mail to clients today.
“The RBI is easing, inflation is starting to fall, growth
should start to pick up and so the rupee should strengthen back
towards 53.”  The currency declined 0.4 percent this week to 54.4425 per
dollar as of 9:32 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It rose 0.1 percent today after falling to 54.6300
yesterday, the weakest level since Jan. 17. The currency is
unlikely to drop past 55 a dollar, according to BBH. The Dollar
Index, which tracks the greenback against six major trading
partners, retreated from a five-month high touched yesterday.  The rupee’s one-month implied volatility, a gauge of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
39 basis points, or 0.39 percentage point, to 9.44 percent this
week. The rate climbed four basis points today.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.55 per
dollar, compared with 55.60 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.40 versus 55.52. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  