-- India Seen Raising Cooking Oil Import Taxes to Guard Growers
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-02-22T10:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/india-seen-raising-cooking-oil-import-taxes-to-protect-growers.html
India , the largest cooking oil
consumer after  China , will probably increase taxes on imports to
shield oilseed farmers from cheap palm supplies from  Indonesia 
and Malaysia, according to a trade group. Futures declined.  The government may raise the tariff on unprocessed oils to
10 percent from 2.5 percent in the  federal budget  next week,
while the tax on refined varieties could increase to 20 percent
from 7.5 percent, B.V. Mehta, executive director of the Solvent
Extractors’ Association of India, said in a phone interview.  India will present its annual budget on Feb. 28 and Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram is seeking to raise revenue,
partly by increasing taxes on commodities. Tariffs on gold
imports may rise for a second time this year to curb a record
current-account deficit, according to the All India Gem &
Jewellery Trade Federation. Imports of palm and soybean oils
surged to a record last month as refiners boosted purchases
before the government imposed a tax on Jan. 17.  “If the government increases duties there may be a
temporary setback to imports and palm product prices may drop in
Indonesia and Malaysia,” said Prasoon Mathur, an analyst with
Religare Commodities Ltd. “Even if local supplies are
comfortable, India will still keep importing palm products as
there is a price advantage.”  D.S. Malik, spokesman at the  finance ministry  in New Delhi,
declined to comment on possible tax changes yesterday.  Record Stockpiles  Domestic inventories of vegetable oils surged to a record
1.75 million metric tons after  imports climbed  27 percent to
2.77 million tons in the three months ended Jan. 31, the
extractors’ association said Feb. 14.  The government may refrain from raising taxes because of
concern about inflation, said Religare’s Mathur. While wholesale
 inflation  eased to a 38-month low of 6.62 percent in January,
the increase in consumer prices accelerated to 10.79 percent,
one of the highest levels in major economies.  The contract for May delivery fell 0.2 percent to close at
2,532 ringgit ($817) a ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange
today, widening soybean oil’s  premium  over palm to $326.57. 
That was on a day when crop futures climbed at least 0.3 
percent in  Chicago .  Malaysia cut taxes on crude exports to zero in January and
February to clear record stockpiles that reached 2.63 million
tons in December. The duty will be 4.5 percent in March after an
increase in global prices, according to the customs. Indonesia
may keep the  rate  unchanged at 9 percent next month, the
Indonesian Palm Oil Association said Feb. 19.  Oilseed Prices  Indonesia and Malaysia are the top producers of palm, which
accounted for about 79 percent of Indian cooking oil imports in
January. Palm and soy are the most consumed edible oils.  “Local oilseed prices have fallen and they will go down
further if imports increase,” said extractors association’s
Mehta. “Farmers will lose interest in growing oilseeds. The
government should immediately increase the taxes.”  Oilseeds output in India will drop to 29.5 million tons in
the year ending June 30 from 29.8 million tons a year earlier,
the farm ministry said Feb. 8. Mustard futures fell 22 percent
on the National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai
in the past six months as soybeans lost 16 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  