-- Billionaires Vie to Open Banks as India Eases Rules After Decade
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-02-22T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/india-allows-companies-to-set-up-banks-for-first-time-in-decade.html
Indian billionaires including Kumar Mangalam Birla are vying to set up banks in the world’s second-
most populated nation after rules were eased to allow companies
into the business and tap rural savings.  The Reserve Bank of  India  sought applications from
companies with a 10-year track record and “sound credentials
and integrity” to apply for licenses by July 1, according to a
statement yesterday. Foreign ownership in the banks, which
should have an equity capital of 5 billion rupees ($92 million),
will be capped at 49 percent, according to the statement.
Companies will have to set up 25 percent of their branches in
villages and small towns.  New banks will help Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who
resumed opening up the $1.8 trillion economy in September, to
tap savings in rural areas and revive growth from the slowest
pace in a decade. Only 35 percent of India’s adult population
has accounts with lenders and other financial institutions,
according to the World Bank. The global average is 50 percent.  “The only purpose of the banking system is to increase the
flow of money into the system,” Shachindra Nath, group chief
executive officer at Religare Enterprises Ltd., said in an
interview to Bloomberg TV India. “It’s genuine for the
government and RBI to expect that newcomers bring that in.”  Religare, controlled by billionaire brothers Malvinder and
 Shivinder Singh , said it will seek the permit. Birla’s Aditya
Birla Group is “eligible and will be applying” for the
licenses, said Ajay Srinivasan, chief executive of the group’s
financial services business. State-run companies will also be
allowed to set up banks, according to the rules.  ‘New Frontier’  “With the economy growing, rural India is emerging as the
new frontier,” Ajit Mittal, a director at Indiabulls Group,
said in a telephone interview. “Setting up branches there will
be a good proposition for groups with requisite skill sets.”  Billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance Capital Ltd. (RCAPT)  plans to
apply for the permits, Chief Executive Officer Sam Ghosh said.
 Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd. (MMFS) , a unit of India’s
largest tractor maker, is also keen to set up a bank, said
Managing Director Ramesh Iyer.  Still, the licenses are unlikely to be issued until late
2014 or early 2015, said A.S.V. Krishnan, a Mumbai-based analyst
at Ambit Capital Pvt.  India has 26 state-run banks, accounting for 76 percent of
outstanding loans as of March 31,  according  to the central bank.
The country’s 20 private lenders, led by  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , held
19 percent of the loan market, while 40 foreign banks accounted
for the rest.  Loan Growth  Banks operating in India collectively have 49.6 trillion
rupees in outstanding  loans  as of Oct. 31, data compiled by the
RBI shows. In an Oct. 30 statement, the Reserve Bank projected
loan growth of 16 percent and deposit growth of 15 percent for
the financial year ending March 31.  Bank loans, excluding advances made to state agencies for
food procurement, expanded 16 percent in the year to Jan. 25,
according to the RBI.  India’s economy will expand 5 percent in the year ending
March 31, the least in a decade, government  data  shows. Singh in
September eased rules for foreign direct investment in retail
and airlines. He also raised fuel prices to reduce the
government’s subsidy burden.  The RBI established guidelines that would open up the
nation’s banking system to more private-sector firms in 1993
amid reforms that included liberalizing interest rates and
setting standards for measuring non-performing loans. Based on
those guidelines, the central bank granted licenses to 10
lenders, including ICICI,  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  and  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB)   Revised Rules  It revised those rules in 2001 and gave permits to  Kotak
Mahindra Bank Ltd. (KMB)  and Yes Bank Ltd. over the following three
years. In August 2010, the RBI said it would issue new
guidelines for licensing more banks and began seeking feedback
from existing lenders and industry groups.  “The Indian banking industry can do with a little bit more
competition,” Uday Kotak, managing director of Kotak Mahindra
Bank, said in an interview last month. Regulators need to ensure
that “some of the issues faced in other sectors, which have led
to a perception of cronyism, do not get repeated when banking
licenses are issued.”  Firms will have to set up a wholly owned, non-operative
financial holding company and undergo a so-called fit and proper
test to win permits. The holding company will own 40 percent of
the bank, which will have to be reduced to 15 percent in 12
years, according to the statement. The lender will have to sell
shares within three years of starting business.  ‘Only Differentiator’  The holding company will not be allowed to lend to firms
owned by the founder. The rules also don’t allow the company to
invest in any financial firms owned by the holding company.  New banks will need to maintain a 13 percent capital
adequacy ratio for three years, compared with the 10 percent
mandated by the regulator when it set guidelines for new lenders
in 2001.  “In India, there isn’t a lot of difference in the strategy
and business model of banks because these are as per the
guidelines of the regulator,” Shinjini Kumar, a director at
PricewaterhouseCoopers, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV
India. “The only differentiator is the corporate governance and
credibility of the entity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  