-- ING Groep Names Belgian Head Hamers CEO to Succeed Hommen
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-02-22T14:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/ing-names-belgian-head-hamers-ceo-from-october-to-succeed-hommen.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, promoted Ralph Hamers to chief
executive officer, replacing Jan Hommen, the former chairman who
led the firm through the aftermath of a government bailout.  The Dutch national, 46, has led the company’s Belgian and
Luxembourg banking unit since 2011 and will take the top job in
October. Hommen, whose four-year term as CEO ends on May 13,
will have his contract extended by four months to “ensure a
smooth leadership transition,” the Amsterdam-based company said
in a statement today.  Hamers will become responsible for completing a European
Union-imposed restructuring plan that will see ING sell its
global insurance and investment-management operations before the
end of 2018 and repay the remainder of the Dutch government’s 10
billion euros ($13.2 billion) in bailout money by May 2015.
He’ll also have to show investors what is next.  “His job will be to map out a strategy for what ING Bank
will be following the restructuring,” said Jan Willem Weidema,
an Amsterdam-based analyst at ABN Amro Bank NV, who has a buy
rating on shares. “He’ll have to build a very clear profile for
the European retail bank ING’s going to be.”  Hamers joined the company in 1991 and has run ING’s Dutch
banking unit and its global commercial lending division.  Shares Rise  ING  shares  rose 2.3 percent to 6.32 euros at 3:29 p.m. in
Amsterdam, giving the company a market value of 24 billion
euros. That’s a gain of more than 50 percent since Jan. 23,
2009, the last trading day before Hommen took the top job.  “Hamers, while a surprising candidate, seems well suited
for the job,” said Matthias De Wit, a Brussels-based analyst at
Petercam SA with a hold rating on the shares. “He’s proven to
be a capable and experienced manager and has a lot of experience
in risk management.”  Hommen, 69, became CEO after chairing ING’s supervisory
board. He took over from Michel Tilmant after the company’s 2008
bailout and has disposed of assets from  Latin America  to  Asia ,
including the sale of ING Direct USA to  Capital One Financial
Corp. (COF)   Restructuring Plan  He has repaid the Netherlands 7.8 billion euros of the
bailout so far, as well as 2.4 billion euros in interest and
premiums. Hommen has announced at least 15,000 job cuts since
January 2009. More than 25 divestments with 20 billion euros in
proceeds reduced the firm’s workforce by another 30,000
employees to 85,000, according to a presentation on Feb. 13.  Hommen won an extension from the EU on the restructuring
plan in November after arguing markets, in  Europe  in particular,
were too depressed to find enough buyers for assets.  During the fourth quarter he completed the sale of ING’s
Malaysian insurance unit and its Canadian online bank, while
agreeing to sell the U.K. online unit to Barclays Plc.  Beyond the Benelux region, ING has banking businesses in
countries including  Poland ,  Romania ,  Turkey ,  Thailand , India and
China. Its online bank, ING Direct, is active in Spain,
Australia, France, Italy, Germany and  Austria .  Hommen had served on ING’s supervisory board from June
2005, and was chief financial officer of  Royal Philips
Electronics NV (PHIA)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  prior to that.  Waived Bonus  As CEO, he received an annual base salary of 1.35 million
euros and hasn’t received any bonuses. In 2011, he waived a 1.25
million-euro bonus and a 2 percent raise after ING’s
remuneration plan sparked criticism. Since then, the Netherlands
has adopted legislation prohibiting so-called variable
remuneration for board members of banks that receive state aid.  ING spokeswoman Victorina de Boer said no decisions have
been taken yet on Hamers’s future pay package. She declined to
comment on his current salary.  Hamers holds a Master of Science degree in business
econometrics from Tilburg University in the Netherlands. Under
his leadership of the Belgian bank, ING became the first lender
to offer banking by smart phone in the country, he said in an
 interview  with ING.World, the firm’s magazine for shareholders,
in November. The Belgian bank has added 400,000 new customers
since 2008, he said.  Hamers will join ING’s executive board if shareholders
agree as well as the management boards of the banking unit and
the combined European and Asian insurance operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  