-- Italy Court Rejects Challenge to State Bailout of Paschi
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-02-22T12:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/italy-court-rejects-challenge-to-state-bailout-of-monte-paschi.html
An Italian court rejected a legal
challenge to  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  receiving 3.9
billion euros ($5.2 billion) in state aid.  The regional administrative court in  Rome  threw out the
claim by consumer group Codacons that the  Bank of Italy  and
other regulators didn’t adequately monitor the Siena-based
lender’s activities, the court said in a ruling published on  its
website . Alleged damage by the bailout is still an eventuality,
the court said.  As part of the suit Codacons sought access to a central
bank technical opinion on Monte Paschi drafted last month and
not released to the public. The document was filed to the court
in a sealed envelope. The central bank said two weeks ago
Codacons’s assertions were “inadmissible and unfounded.”  “Blocking aid would have hurt  Italy ’s credibility,”
 Alessandro Frigerio , a  fund manager  at RMJ Sgr in Milan, said by
telephone before the ruling was announced. “We have never seen
a government procedure, backed by the central bank, obstructed
by a tribunal.”  Codacons may appeal the ruling at the Council of State or
may file a new claim at the administrative court after the bonds
are issued, Codacons President Carlo Rienzi said by phone.  Shares Gain  Monte Paschi rose as much as 3.5 percent, and was up 1.9
percent to 22.62 cents at 12:26 p.m. in Milan.  The Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index , which was up 1.1
percent today, has risen 23 percent in the last six months,
compared with Paschi’s 5 percent decline.  Monte Paschi, engulfed by investigations of its former
managers, said on Feb. 6 it will take a 730 million-euro hit to
its assets after reviewing structured deals from 2008 and 2009
that hid losses. In one transaction that wasn’t fully disclosed,
the bank made a money-losing bet on Italian  government bonds  in
a structured deal disguised as a loan,  Bloomberg News  reported
on Jan. 17. Accounting irregularities also prompted a criminal
probe targeting previous management.  The bank is seeking financial aid from the government to
bolster its balance sheet after failing to meet  capital
requirements  set by the European Banking Authority. The company
is also selling assets and reducing risk and costs in a three-
year plan to restore liquidity.  Under the government’s rescue plan, Monte Paschi will sell
securities, dubbed “Monti bonds” after the prime minister’s
surname, to the government with a 9 percent coupon that may rise
to as much as 15 percent. According to the decree approved by
Monti’s Cabinet in December, the payment is set to be completed
by March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  