-- LivingSocial Falls to a Quarter of 2011 Value in Latest Funding
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-02-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/livingsocial-falls-to-a-quarter-of-2011-value-in-latest-funding.html
LivingSocial Inc. was worth about
$1.5 billion in a recent financing round, less than a quarter
its value as recently as 14 months ago, evidence of dwindling
demand for the daily coupons that make up most of its sales.  Investors put $110 million into the company and received
7.5 percent of its equity, Chief Executive Officer Tim O’Shaughnessy wrote in a memo yesterday, obtained by Bloomberg.
That’s a drop from December 2011, when LivingSocial raised funds
at a valuation of about $6 billion, a person said at the time.  Fading demand for online daily deals has slowed growth and
forced LivingSocial to raise funding in a so-called down round,
whereby a company gets a lower valuation than in previous
fundraisings. As is common with such rounds, LivingSocial
included terms designed to ensure the most recent investors make
their money back in case of a sale.  “Like most standard preferred-stock deals, this one comes
with a liquidation preference where the latest money in will be
the first to be paid out in a liquidity event, like an
acquisition,” Charley Moore, executive chairman and founder of
San Francisco-based online legal-services firm Rocket Lawyer
Inc., wrote in an e-mail.  Investors participating in the recent funding include
existing LivingSocial backers  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and Revolution
Partners LLC, according to a person with knowledge of the matter
who asked not to be identified because the funding was not
announced publicly.  The company also agreed to pay some backers an annual
dividend of about 3 percent of their investment, O’Shaughnessy
wrote.  Like Groupon  LivingSocial’s decline mirrors the plight of  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) ,
the leading daily-deal site, which has dropped 71 percent since
its November 2011 initial public offering. The Chicago-based
coupon provider has a market capitalization of $3.8 billion.  In November, LivingSocial cut about 400 of its 4,500
employees after a review of operations. The company at the time
also approved 100 new hires and increased spending in certain
areas to target growth.  Amazon last year reported a charge of $169 million related
to its stake in LivingSocial. The online retailer had invested
$175 million in the coupon service in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  