-- J.C. Penney Can Raise Billions Under Revised Credit Line
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-02-22T22:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/j-c-penney-can-raise-billions-under-revised-credit-line.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the retailer backed
by hedge-fund manager  William Ackman , got clearance from lenders
to sell billions of dollars in stock and  debt  if needed as it
struggles to complete a turnaround.  Under changes to the company’s primary credit line, its
banks affirmed that J.C. Penney can sell convertible preferred
stock without triggering repayment provisions under the lending
agreement, according to a Feb. 12 regulatory filing. The
revisions also permit the department store chain to  obtain  as
much as $1.75 billion in new loans by pledging real estate and
other fixed assets as collateral, said Judah Frogel, an analyst
at Covenant Review LLC in  New York .  The retailer has posted five consecutive quarters of  losses 
as Chief Executive Officer Ronald Johnson’s seeks to transform
the chain by creating in-store boutiques and reducing reliance
on coupons and sales events. The Plano, Texas-based company
moved to block efforts by a group of bondholders to declare a
default over a provision in the original  credit line .  “If you consider the fact that J.C. Penney has been losing
money heavily and its strategy is based on revamping the stores
over a three-year period, there is a need for cash,” said
Bernard Sosnick, an analyst at New York-based Gilford
Securities.  Ackman is on J.C. Penney’s board and his  Pershing Square 
Management LP ranks as the retailer’s largest stockholder
through its 18 percent stake. The revised credit agreement
permits New York-based Pershing Square to increase its holdings.  J.C. Penney rose 4.3 percent to $22.47 in New York, after
climbing as much as 7.2 percent. The stock jumped 6.7 percent
yesterday.  ‘Lot More’  J.C. Penney originally entered into the credit accord in
January 2012, when it had a limit of $1.5 billion secured by
inventory and receivables, an arrangement typically referred to
as an asset-based loan. The retailer increased the credit line
to $1.75 billion on Jan. 31.  J.C. Penney has yet to borrow any money under the credit
line, provided by a syndicate of banks including units of
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp.  “These guys say they are just adding $100 million,” said
Frogel of Covenant Review, a New York-based provider of research
on debt covenants. “But they are actually doing a lot more.”  Joey Thomas, a J.C. Penney spokesman, said in e-mailed
statement that the amended agreement “further strengthened the
company’s liquidity position as we continue to execute our
strategic plan.”  Declining Value  J.C. Penney has lost almost half its  stock-market value  in
the past year, making it the fourth-worst performer among
companies in the U.S. benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500  Index. (SPX)  The
decline has weighed down the returns of Pershing Square’s funds,
which had about 9 percent of their capital invested in J.C.
Penney as of November, according to a letter Ackman sent to
clients at the end of that month.  The retailer’s cash and equivalents fell to $525 million at
the end of the third quarter from $888 million three months
earlier, the company said in a Nov. 9 earnings presentation. Ken
Hannah, J.C. Penney’s chief financial officer, said at the time
the company would end the fiscal year with $1 billion in cash.
The total will probably be closer to $700 million, according to
 Rick Snyder , an  analyst  at New York-based Maxim Group LLC.  A copy of the amended borrowing agreement filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Feb. 12 shows new
terms that, among other things, give J.C. Penney leeway to raise
money through a stock sale underwritten by a financial
institution. The amended filing affirms that this type of equity
offering won’t trigger change of control provisions in the
credit line that authorize lenders to force repayment of any
outstanding borrowings if J.C. Penney is acquired.  ‘Equity Interests’  The revised agreement says “any preferred equity
interests” that are convertible into common stock won’t be
counted in tabulations of the company’s total debt burden. It
includes new language on a “rights offering” in which J.C.
Penney gives existing stockholders the opportunity to purchase
“additional equity interests.”  Pershing Square and  Steven Roth ’s  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  both
invested in J.C. Penney in October 2008 and have consulted each
other on their respective stakes. The revised agreement exempts
Pershing Square and Vornado from terms in the credit line that
say a change of control occurs when any outside investor
acquires more than 42.5 percent of the company’s “aggregate
equity value.”  Shareholder Agreements  Under existing shareholder agreements with J.C. Penney,
Pershing Square and Vornado can acquire respective “economic”
stakes equaling 26.1 percent and 15.4 percent of shares
outstanding through the use of derivatives such as total return
swaps.  Ackman, a member of J.C. Penney’s board, and Roy Katzovicz,
the chief legal officer at Pershing Square, both declined to
comment. Wendi Kopsick, a Vornado spokeswoman, said the New
York-based real estate company “has no plans to increase its
position” in J.C. Penney.  J.C. Penney and its bankers also amended the agreement to
permit the retailer to borrow an additional $1.75 billion that
is secured by a first lien on the company’s fixed assets, such
as real estate or intellectual property, according to Frogel.
The revised agreement also allows J.C. Penney to give other
creditors a second lien on the inventory and receivables backing
the credit line provided by the banks.  The store inventory is the subject of a Jan. 29 notice of
default the department store chain received from  Brown Rudnick 
LLP, a  law firm  that says it represents investors holding more
than 50 percent of J.C. Penney’s 7.4 percent debentures that
mature in 2037.  Icahn Feud  Brown Rudnick asserts the bondholders have a claim to the
collateral as well, according to a complaint J.C. Penney filed
in Delaware Chancery Court on Feb. 4. J.C. Penney is asking the
court to bar the trustee for the bondholders from declaring an
event of default, claiming the debentures are secured by
“principal property,” which the chain defines as stores and
warehouses, not their inventory.  The timing of the bondholders’ claim suggests  Carl Icahn ,
the billionaire investor engaged in a public spat with Ackman
over Pershing Square’s bet against  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) , may be behind
the bondholders group, the financial website Zero Hedge reported
earlier this month. Bondholders didn’t complain about the credit
agreement, which has been in place for a year, until after Icahn
and Ackman last month revived their decade-old feud on national
television.  Icahn, who spent more than seven years fighting Ackman in
court over a $4.5 million claim, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview on Jan. 24 that he doesn’t “like” or “respect” the
hedge-fund manager. A day later, Icahn engaged in an on-air
dispute with Ackman on CNBC and subsequently issued a statement
saying his foe was taking “inordinate risks” through a bet
against Herbalife, the marketer of weight-loss and nutritional
supplements.  Not ‘Afraid’  Icahn didn’t reply to requests from  Bloomberg News  for
comment on J.C. Penney.  Best known as an activist investor, Icahn has previously
bought the distressed bonds of companies such as  Revlon Inc. (REV) ,
the cosmetics manufacturer controlled by  Ronald Perelman .  In obtaining the right to use its fixed assets and
inventory for additional borrowings, J.C. Penney is showing it’s
not “afraid” of the bondholders’ default claims, Frogel said.
“The fact that the company built this flexibility into the
asset-based loan only goes to further draw the line in the
sand,” he said.  Thomas, the J.C. Penney spokesman, said in a second e-
mailed statement that the company’s Feb. 12 announcement is
“independent and unrelated” to the default notice received
from bondholders. James Stoll, the Brown Rudnick attorney
representing the bondholders, said in a telephone interview that
he didn’t think that responding to the default notice “was the
intent of the credit agreement” revisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  