-- J&J Hip Designer Says He Gave Complaints to Marketers
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/j-j-hip-designer-says-he-gave-complaints-to-marketers.html
A California surgeon who designed
 Johnson & Johnson’s (JNJ)  recalled metal hips testified that he gave
complaints about the devices to the marketing department and
never knew of the group designated to probe such matters.  The surgeon, Thomas Schmalzried, also told jurors in state
court in  Los Angeles  yesterday that he made $3.6 million in
royalties on the ASR hip. Since 2000, DePuy has paid him $20
million, mostly for work on other devices, Schmalzried said.  Schmalzried, who led the ASR surgeon design team, was
testifying at the first of 10,000 lawsuits alleging defects in
the device to go to trial. Analysts say the lawsuits could cost
the company billions of dollars to resolve. DePuy employees
earlier testified that company policy required that all
complaints go to the vigilance and complaint department.  Asked on cross-examination if he sent surgeon complaints
about hip failures there, he said: “They don’t have a vigilance
department.”  He also was asked about Paul Arnott, the head of that
department, who testified earlier in the trial.  “I can’t put a face with that name,” Schmalzried said.  J&J, the world’s  largest  seller of health-care products,
recalled the hips in August 2010 when their failure rate reached
12 percent in the U.K. Since then, the failure rate hit 40
percent in  Australia .  Defense Witness  The company called Schmalzried as a defense witness at a
trial over a lawsuit by Loren Kransky, a retired prison guard.
The company denies Kransky’s claims that it designed the ASR
defectively or that it led to dangerous levels of metal ions.
J&J, based in  New Brunswick , New Jersey, says it properly warned
of the risks.  Schmalzried, who made a royalty on almost every hip sold,
said he worked to educate surgeons on the proper way to insert
cobalt-and-chromium device. Surgeons put a metal cup in the hip
and a ball atop the femur that rotated in the cup.  “The practical problem we faced was getting the cup
inserted in the right position,” he said. “There was no cup
that was not performing that was in proper position.”  He said the cup worked best when placed at no more than a
45 degree angle, which reduced the amount of wear that produced
metal ions in the tissue and bloodstream.  “If you don’t put it in good, it’s not going to work
good,” he said. “No matter whose device it is.”  Jurors have heard that some leading surgeons in the U.S.
and  Europe  complained about the ASR’s design and failure rate.
Schmalzried said he met with some of those doctors.  ‘Good Position’  “I was in a very good position to try and help them if
they were having issues,” he said.  Schmalzried, who implants as many as 250 hips annually,
said he had put in 39 ASR devices through 2007 without failures.
He has now put in 66 ASR hips and replaced at least 15, a
failure rate of 23 percent, he said.  “It’s your expectation that number is probably going to go
up?” Kransky’s attorney  Michael Kelly  asked on cross-
examination.  “Probably,” Schmalzried said.  Schmalzried said the marketing department was his “primary
conduit” for information about problems other surgeons were
having with the ASR. He said that any time he learned a patient
had an implant replaced through a revision surgery, he told the
marketing department.  “It wasn’t their job to be doing the vigilance work, was
it?” Kelly asked. “Marketing had nothing to do with
vigilance?”  “I disagree with that,” Schmalzried said.  Schmalzried said he no longer implants metal-on-metal hips,
citing “the evolution of available alternatives,” new
technology, and stronger and more durable polyethylene cups.  The case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maurice Possley in Los Angeles Superior Court at
 mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 