-- Japan Says Object, Stuck Valve Cause of Boeing 787 Leak
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-02-22T06:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/japan-says-object-stuck-valve-cause-of-boeing-787-leak.html
Japan Airlines Co. (9201) ’s fuel leak on a
 Boeing Co. (BA)  787 plane at  Boston  last month was probably caused by
a foreign object that caused a valve to temporarily open.  Either a valve to prevent fuel flowing backward in the left
tank, or a valve between the main and left tanks was temporarily
open, causing the overflow,  Japan ’s transport ministry said in a
statement today.  The ministry said checks should be made on the central pump
to prevent a similar problem happening again, according to the
statement. About 40 gallons of fuel spilled onto the ground from
a Japan Airlines 787 when it was taxiing for takeoff at Logan
International Airport on Jan. 8.  “We estimate that an object about 1.5 millimeters (0.06
inch) in size was in the tank,” Tatsuyuki Shimazu, a chief
airworthiness engineer at Japan’s Civil Aviation Bureau, told
reporters in  Tokyo  today. “We haven’t been able to determine
what that was.”  A separate fuel leak on a Japan Airlines 787 at Tokyo’s
Narita airport the following week was caused after a microswitch
was painted with an insulating coating that wasn’t needed and a
hair from a brush had stuck to it, causing it to lock, Shimazu
said.  To avoid a repeat incident Japan has agreed with Boeing on
measures to prevent the U.K.-made switch from being incorrectly
painted again, and to improve the system that alerts the cabin
when the valve is open, according to the government.  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) , the biggest operator of 787 jets,
Japan Airlines, and six other operators have canceled thousands
of planned Dreamliner flights since two separate lithium-ion
battery incidents last month, which led to a fire on a parked
Japan Airlines plane and the emergency landing of an ANA plane.  “Our main priority is to solve the problems and then
return to service,” Taro Namba, a spokesman for Japan Airlines,
said by telephone from Tokyo today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  