-- Japan Atomic Said to Seek Rollover of 104 Billion Yen Loans
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-02-22T04:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/japan-atomic-said-to-seek-rollover-of-104-billion-yen-loans.html
Japan  Atomic Power Co., a wholesale
nuclear power generator owned by regional utilities, is in talks
with banks to roll over 104 billion yen ($1.1 billion) loans due
in April, two people familiar with the matter said.  The company is seeking guarantees for the loans from  Kansai
Electric Power Co. (9503) , Chubu Electric Power Co., Tohoku Electric
Power Co. and  Hokuriku Electric Power Co. (9505) , one of the people
said, declining to be identified because the information is
private. Agreements among the involved parties may be reached by
mid-March, the person said.  All of Japan Atomic’s reactors are offline with no date set
for restart after the Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011.  Kansai
Electric  has said it is spending hundreds of billions of yen to
improve safety of atomic plants and meet requirements to be set
by the Nuclear Regulation Authority in July.  Japan Atomic borrowed 104 billion yen from banks last
April, most of which was planned for safety improvements at its
Tsuruga and Tokai Dai-Ni nuclear plants, spokesman Mitsuru
Marutani said by phone today. Options under consideration
include a rollover of the loans, he said, declining to
elaborate.  The facility comprises 29 billion yen from the state-run
 Development Bank  of Japan and 75 billion yen from 11 lenders
including Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in April last year,
according to the company’s  statement  to Japan’s finance
ministry. The loans, both due on April 26, were guaranteed by
Kansai Electric, Chubu Electric, Tohoku Electric and Hokuriku
Electric, the filing shows.  Spokesmen of the four power companies said they weren’t
able to immediately comment on the matter when contacted by
phone today.  Safety Outlays  Kansai Electric, the Japanese utility most reliant on
nuclear power, may have to spend at least 285 billion yen to
improve safety of its nuclear stations, President Makoto Yagi
said last month. Japan’s ten nuclear operators are facing a
combined safety cost of about 1 trillion yen to meet the
regulator’s rules, the Nikkei newspaper reported earlier this
month.  The Asahi newspaper reported earlier today that Japan
Atomic plans to seek the rollover and the loan guarantees. The
report said Japan’s nine power utilities will buy part of Japan
Atomic’s stake in Japan Nuclear Fuel Ltd. for as much as 30
billion yen to help the company’s finances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  