-- JD Group Warns South Africa Consumer Spending to Remain Weak
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-02-22T15:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/jd-group-warns-south-africa-consumer-spending-to-remain-weak.html
JD Group Ltd. (JDG) , a South African
furniture retailer and financial services provider, said high
unemployment and an oversupply of unsecured lending is causing
consumers to spend less on durable goods.  “With our target market under pressure, it’s been very
difficult for furniture sales,” Chief Financial Officer Bennie
van Rooy said in a phone interview today. “Customers are
protecting their day-to-day expenses, which means they are
spending less on items such as furniture and defaulting more on
repayments.”  JD Group’s net income rose 3.5 percent to 502 million rand
($56.6 million) in the six months through December, the
Johannesburg-based company said in a statement yesterday. Its
furniture business had no sales growth in December, although
sales improved in January, showing “mid-single digit sales
growth,” van Rooy said.  South African  retail sales  growth weakened in December as
high unemployment and rising inflation curbed consumer demand.
Inflation rose to 5.7 percent in the month.  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , Africa’s largest food retailer,
said on Feb. 19 that increases in the price of fuel and power in
 South Africa  coupled with labor unrest will hold back  consumer
spending  in the first six months of 2013. Retailers  Truworths
International Ltd. (TRU)  and Edcon Holdings Pty Ltd. also warned of a
weak consumer environment this week.  Ability to Afford  “Our credit acceptance rate fell to 65 percent, from 68
percent last year,” JD Group’s Van Rooy said. “This is an
indication of consumers’ ability to afford our average loan size
of 7,000 rand.”  The company said yesterday that Chief Executive Officer
Grattan Kirk resigned, to be replaced by David Sussman. Kirk
will continue to work with JD Group’s retail division “wrapping
up” projects that were started during his tenure as CEO, Van
Rooy said.  JD Group rose 1 percent to 41.50 rand by the close in
Johannesburg, compared with a 0.9 percent drop in the 11-member
FTSE/JSE  Africa  General Retailers Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  