-- Julius Baer Most Hurt by Kickbacks Ban, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-02-22T16:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/julius-baer-most-hurt-by-kickbacks-removal-morgan-stanley-says.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  would
probably be the most affected by the elimination of retrocession
fees, or kickbacks, that are paid to banks in  Switzerland  for
selling fund products, Morgan Stanley analysts said.  A complete removal of retrocessions for all wealth
management clients would cut total revenue by about 6 percent
and pretax profit by 12 percent at Zurich-based Julius Baer,
analysts Hubert Lam, Huw van Steenis and Bruce Hamilton said in
a note yesterday. The impact at  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  would be equal to about 2 percent of group revenues and 6
percent to 7 percent of pretax profits for each, they estimated.  “We are taking note of the developments around
retrocessions and that’s a topic we’re taking seriously,”
 Julius Baer  Chief Executive Officer Boris Collardi told
investors at a presentation on Feb. 4. He said it was too early
to say how changes will affect pricing.  Jan Vonder Muehll, a spokesman for the bank, declined to
comment further today.  A Swiss court ruled last year that banks can’t book
retrocession fees on products sold to clients who have their
wealth managed on a discretionary basis. Discretionary mandates
make up about 10 percent of wealth-management assets at Credit
Suisse, about 13 percent at UBS and about 15 percent at Julius
Baer, according to the Morgan Stanley report.  UBS is Switzerland’s biggest bank, while Credit Suisse
ranks second. Julius Baer is the country’s third-largest wealth
manager.  Repricing Services  In the long term, the introduction of the second Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid II, or another form of
regulation may ban retrocessions altogether “given the ongoing
push for reforms on investor protection,” the analysts said.  Banks may be able to reprice their services to mitigate the
effect from lost retrocession fees, the analysts wrote, adding
that uncertainty over the issue may keep revenue margins “under
pressure for longer.” They have an overweight recommendation on
Credit Suisse and UBS and equal-weight on Julius Baer.  Julius Baer took a “small provision” as part of 10.2
million francs ($10.9 million) set aside for various legal risks
in 2012 as it assessed the situation concerning the court
decision on retrocessions, Chief Financial Officer Dieter Enkelmann said on Feb. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  