-- K&L Gates Posts 2012 Results on Website in Bid for Transparency
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-02-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/k-l-gates-posts-2012-results-on-website-in-bid-for-transparency.html
K&L Gates LLP posted its
comprehensive financial information on its website, a move that
K&L’s chairman described in an internal e-mail as a bid for
transparency and  law firm  consultants said is unusual.  Among the disclosures, the firm’s revenue dropped slightly
to a little more than $1.06 billion from the previous year, the
firm had no outstanding bank debt and it ended 2012 with more
than $220 million in cash, according to the  statement  posted
yesterday on the website.  Chairman Peter Kalis, whose Pittsburgh-based firm has more
than 2000 attorneys, addressed the disclosures in an e-mail to
the firm’s lawyers obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Although our firm’s financial performance is fully
transparent to our partners, we wish to extend that transparency
to all of our lawyers, including associates, and to include
categories of information that industry publications have
ignored,” Kalis said in the e-mail.  Kalis didn’t immediately respond to a reporter’s e-mail
seeking comment on the internal e-mail. Earlier, when asked by
 Bloomberg News  about the posting on the website, Kalis referred
to the implosion of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the New York law firm
that once had 1,300 lawyers before seeking bankruptcy in May.  “Our industry and profession were shamed by Dewey,” Kalis
said in an e-mail. “This is our modest attempt to fight back
and lead by example.”  ‘Institutional Stability’  In the firm-wide e-mail, Kalis said that information such
as “debt loads, unfunded retirement obligations,
undercapitalization, illiquidity and the like” are often not
made public even though these “indicia go right to the heart of
institutional stability.”  The firm opened offices in Milan and  Seoul  last year and
merged with the Australian firm Middletons Lawyers in January,
according to its website statement. The firm said its “annual
retirement obligation expense” as a percentage of revenue is
0.3 percent.  Net income per partner was reported as $899,960 for “fully
participating equity partners” and $636,920 for all partners.
The highest-paid partners make 7.9 times as much as first-year
partners, according to the statement,  Ward Bower, a principal with Altman Weil Inc., a consulting
firm specializing in the legal profession, said he was surprised
at the amount of information released.  ‘Dewey Hangover’  “I would suspect that anyone in a big law firm has been
asked questions by clients, potential lateral hires and
potential merger partners about what these numbers look like,”
he said yesterday in a phone interview. “There’s a sense of a
Dewey hangover that continues even into 2013.”  Peter Zeughauser, another law firm consultant, said with
most firms treating balance sheets as confidential information,
sharing “is usually done more discreetly,” typically with a
non-disclosure agreement. Zeughauser said in a phone interview
that he doubts many other firms will follow the lead of K&L
Gates.  Bower said K&L Gates may be comfortable with heightened
disclosure because that is already a fact of law firm life for
British firms.  “The big  London  firms, as part of British law, must file
financial statements, including both income statement and
balance sheet,” he said. “K&L Gates, with a pretty good size
office in London, is probably more comfortable than a typical
American firm would be.”  The firm’s website statement was reported earlier on the
Wall Street Journal’s Law Blog.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  