-- Natural Gas Gains on Outlook for Bursts of Cold U.S. Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-02-22T20:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/natural-gas-gains-as-cold-u-s-weather-spurs-heating-fuel-demand.html
Natural gas futures advanced in  New
York , capping the first weekly increase since mid-January, on
speculation that a cold end to the U.S. heating season will
boost demand.  Gas rose 1.4 percent as MDA Weather Services said freezing
weather will sweep through the central U.S. next week and into
the East over the next 11 to 15 days, while the West turns
warmer. Bursts of cold this winter have helped reduce U.S.
inventories that rose to an all-time high in November.  “We finally got some cold weather and we are burning
gas,” said Tom Saal, senior vice president of energy trading at
FCStone Latin America LLC in Miami. “We are running out of
winter. You are getting some reaction to the cold weather.”  Natural gas for March delivery increased 4.5 cents to
$3.291 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , settling higher for the third time in four
days. Trading volume was 31 percent below the 100-day average at
2:44 p.m. The futures rose 4.4 percent this week, posting the
first gain in five weeks. Gas is up 25 percent from a year ago.  March $3.30 calls were the most active gas options in
electronic trading. They were up 1.1 cents at 2.4 cents per
million Btu on volume of 1,252 contracts as of 2:57 p.m. Calls
accounted for 58 percent of options volume.  The low temperature in Indianapolis on March 1 may be 23
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 5 Celsius), 5 below the usual reading,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .
 New York City ’s low may be 11 below normal at 22 degrees on
March 7.  About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating.  Goldman Report  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said gas prices may recover to
$3.75 per million Btu in the second quarter as a more seasonal
end to winter, increased structural demand and stable production
reduce the need for fuel-switching at  power plants , according to
Johan Spetz, a London-based analyst with the firm.  Barring any large weather surprises in March, this winter
will probably end up being about 3 percent milder than normal,
compared with the previous winter that was 15 percent milder,
Spetz said in a note to clients dated yesterday. The colder
weather this winter translates into 700 billion cubic feet of
additional heating demand for gas, “which is key to reducing
the reliance on price-induced coal-to-gas substitution this
year,” he said.  The previous winter was the fourth-warmest on U.S. record,
cutting demand, boosting a stockpile surplus and sending futures
to a 10-year intraday low of $1.902 per million Btu in April.  Power Plants  Electricity generators burned a record 25 billion cubic
feet of gas a day last year as they switched from costlier coal
and an unusually hot summer spurred power usage, Energy
Information Administration data show. Demand this year will drop
1.85 billion to 23.15 billion a day amid higher  gas prices , the
Energy Department’s statistical unit said in its Feb. 12  Short-
Term Energy Outlook .  Spetz expects fuel-switching demand from power plants to
drop by 2.5 billion cubic feet a day this year.  A decline in hydroelectric generation in the Pacific
Northwest may boost daily gas demand from April through
September by 200 million to 250 million cubic feet, Biliana
Pehlivanova, a New York-based analyst with Barclays Plc, said in
a note to clients today. This should “reduce the need for coal-
to-gas displacement,” she said.  Hydro Power  Water supplies  at The Dalles Dam on the Columbia River in
 Oregon , a regional proxy for hydropower, will be 10 percent
below the 30-year average in the second and third quarters,
according to the Northwest River Forecast Center. Water levels
exceeded the norm by 34 percent in 2012 and by 43 percent in
2011, Pehlivanova said.  U.S. gas stockpiles totaled 2.4 trillion cubic feet during
the week ended Feb. 15, widening a  supply surplus  versus the
five-year average to 18 percent from 16 percent the previous
week. A  deficit  versus year-earlier levels narrowed to 9.2
percent last week from 9.7 percent.  Inventories may end the heating season in March at about 2
trillion cubic feet, down from 2.477 trillion the same time last
year but above the five-year average of 1.726 trillion, EIA data
show. Supplies had risen to a record 3.929 trillion on Nov. 2.  The number of  rigs drilling  for gas rose by 7 this week to
428, the first increase four weeks, Baker Hughes Inc. data today
showed.  The rig count is down 40 percent from a year ago.  U.S. marketed gas production will rise 1.1 percent this
year to a record 70.02 billion cubic feet a day this year on
gains from shale deposits such as the Marcellus in the
Northeast, the EIA said.  Cold weather over the next two weeks “will not be enough
to dent the storage picture,”  Mike Fitzpatrick , editor of the
Energy OverView newsletter in New York, wrote today. He said gas
prices may dip below $3, though for now there appears to be
support at $3.10, the 200-day moving average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  