-- Natural Gas May Decline Amid Milder Weather, Survey Shows
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-02-22T19:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/natural-gas-may-fall-as-milder-weather-cuts-demand-survey-shows.html
Natural gas futures may decline next
week as moderating weather curtails consumption of the heating
fuel, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Seven of 12 analysts, or 58 percent, forecast that gas
futures will fall on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through
March 1. Three, or 25 percent, said futures will rise and two
predicted that prices will stay the same. Last week, 50 percent
of participants said  gas prices  would advance.  Temperatures across the eastern U.S. will be seasonal next
week with above-normal readings in parts of  New England ,
according to MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . Gas
prices have slumped 3.1 percent this year as above-normal
temperatures cut fuel demand and boosted a stockpile surplus.  “We are getting closer and closer to the end of the
season, the spring warm-up and longer days, so demand should be
diminished somewhat,” said Gordy Elliott, a risk-management
specialist at INTL FCStone Inc. in  St. Louis Park , Minnesota.
“We’ve probably got two or three weeks of withdrawals, but that
still leaves us with adequate natural gas supplies.”  The low temperature in  New York City  on Feb. 26 will be 36
degrees Fahrenheit (2 Celsius), 5 above normal, and Columbus,
Ohio, may be 4 higher than the usual reading at 31 degrees,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania.  About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating.  Supply Report  Gas stockpiles  totaled 2.4 trillion cubic feet in the week
ended Feb. 15, 18 percent above the five-year average for the
period, the Energy Department’s Energy Information
Administration said yesterday. The  supply gap  widened from 16
percent the previous week.  Natural gas for March delivery rose 13.8 cents, or 4.4
percent, to $3.291 per million British thermal units this week
in  New York , settling higher for the first time since Jan. 18.
The futures are up 25 percent from a year ago.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  3       7     2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  