-- NBA Warriors Wear Sleeves as Basketball Enters Fashion Frontier
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-02-22T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/nba-warriors-wear-sleeves-as-basketball-enters-fashion-frontier.html
Allan Houston, who joined the
 National Basketball Association  as it moved away from short
shorts, says the latest uniform change might lead to another
sports fashion statement.  The  Golden State Warriors  tonight will debut what they are
calling the NBA’s first modern short-sleeve jersey when they
host the  San Antonio Spurs , spurning the sleeveless outfits
almost universally worn throughout basketball.  “It’s going to be all or nothing,” said Houston, the  New
York Knicks ’ assistant general manager who retired as a player
after 12 seasons in 2005. “People are going to really embrace
it or be like, ‘Man, I don’t want any part of it.’”  The Oakland, California-based Warriors will sport the new
jerseys made by  Adidas AG (ADS)  twice more this season. Players and
sports marketing analysts said short sleeves could be anything
from a style game-changer to simply a sales stunt.  Wearing  above-the-knee shorts , Houston entered the NBA with
the  Detroit Pistons  in 1993, the same season as Chris Webber,
who helped make popular a longer-legged look with the  University
of Michigan  team known as the Fab Five. It wasn’t long before
the  Chicago Bulls ’  Michael Jordan  started wearing longer shorts
and other teams followed, Houston said.  “The younger guys set the trends and set the market,”
Houston said in an interview. “If they embrace it and everybody
likes it, then it could catch.”  The yellow shirts, form-fitting around the arms, have blue
Warriors lettering and striping at the neck and down the sides.
A white image of the  San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge  is on the
front.  Other Teams  The short-sleeved jerseys, constructed of tight-fitting
stretchy fabric, will be provided by Adidas to some college
teams and the McDonald’s All-America Game for top high-school
players.  “Having a short-sleeved fan jersey makes more sense than
the current design,” said William Sutton, a sports-marketing
consultant to the Orlando Magic and  Phoenix Suns  of the NBA and
founding director of the sport and entertainment masters of
business administration program at the  University of South
Florida . “There is room for a new jersey style, although the
fans would probably want a less form-fitting version.”  The Warriors’ jerseys, both with and without sleeves, are
available on the team’s website for $110. Adidas, the NBA’s
official uniform supplier since 2006, is in talks with other
teams in the league about short-sleeved tops, though it won’t
say which ones, said spokeswoman Madeline Breskin.  Alternate Jerseys  The short-sleeved tops probably will end up as alternates,
which are frequently used by teams in all four major U.S. sports
to generate merchandise sales, said John Horan, founder of
Sporting Goods Intelligence, a Glen Mills, Pennsylvania-based
company that follows the industry.  “Whether it’s going to create a sea change in the way
people look at basketball uniforms, I wouldn’t see it being
that,” Horan said in a telephone interview.  Though short-sleeved jerseys have been uncommon, they are
not unheard of in the NBA, college and the high school game. The
 Boston Celtics  of the 1940s wore short sleeves; Hall of Fame
player and coach Lenny Wilkens was among those who donned them
at  Providence College  in the late 1950s, and the  University of
Evansville  in  Indiana  used tops with sleeves for much of the
last half-century, most recently as throwback uniforms.  Proviso East  Knicks guard Iman Shumpert said in an interview last week
that he’s always been a “no-sleeve guy” and had yet to see the
Warriors’ new tops. A native of Oak Park,  Illinois , the only
team Shumpert said he ever saw wear short sleeves was  Proviso
East High School  in nearby Maywood, Illinois.  “This is the first year we’re not wearing the sleeves
actually, and we got a lot of flak about that,” Anthony Crespo,
the assistant principal of athletics at Proviso East, said in a
telephone interview. “We’ve had them since we played our first
game in 1910.”  A new contract with  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s Jordan Brand, which doesn’t
offer short sleeves, and young players’ interest in a different
look led to the change, Crespo said.  Rick Welts, the Warriors’ president and chief operating
officer, said at a news conference to unveil the new jerseys
that the Warriors were a natural to be the first to wear them
because “innovation is ingrained in our culture” since Joe Lacob and  Peter Guber  bought the team in 2010.  Practice Shirts  Harrison Barnes, the Warriors forward who tested the new
jersey for Adidas and modeled it at an introductory news
conference, said he’s among players who wear T-shirts during
practice.  “It fits like a glove and doesn’t restrict your shooting
at all,” said Barnes, a rookie averaging 9.1 points per game.  Houston, a two-time All-Star, averaged 17.3 points per game
and his 1,305 3-pointers rank 28th in NBA history. He smiled
when asked if players might worry about how the short-sleeved
jerseys will affect their shooting touch.  “If you’re a shooter and you’re worried about your shirt,
then you’re not a shooter,” Houston said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  