-- Negro League Baseball Economics Depended on One Industry
-- B y   D a n i e l   L e v i n s o n   W i l k
-- 2013-02-22T15:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/negro-league-baseball-economics-depended-on-one-industry.html
In an era when baseball contracts
can run into the tens of millions of dollars, it’s worth
revisiting the early years of the Negro Leagues, when some
players could only make ends meet by moonlighting at service
jobs, many as hotel waiters.  Because therein lies a curious story about black
entrepreneurship in the age of Jim Crow.  The Cuban Giants, the first successful professional black
ball club, came together in the summer of 1885 at the Argyle
Hotel in Babylon, New York. Headwaiter Frank P. Thompson hired
black ball-playing waiters as an entertainment for resort
guests. Many of the players had already built reputations as
outstanding athletes. Thompson ran the team with S.K. Govern,
who had previously worked in hotels and managed a black semipro
club.  Soon after, Thompson and Govern made contact with the
growing Flagler hotel empire in  Florida , which installed the
Cuban Giants as waiters and entertainment in St. Augustine
during the winter season and gave them a base for barnstorming
the South.  This conferred an advantage over competing teams like the
 New York Gorhams  -- if you didn’t work in a hotel, you missed
the extra income, and Jim Crow laws made it hard to find a place
to stay (the annals of Negro League history are full of stories
about the difficulty of finding food and shelter on the road).  In-House Teams  Other black teams used hotels similarly, staying and
sometimes working a shift in white resort hotels and playing
games for white spectators on the hotel grounds. In particular,
Rube Foster’s  Chicago  American Giants and Nat C. Strong’s
Lincoln Giants spent winter seasons as the in-house teams of the
Royal Poinciana and the Breakers -- both in Palm Beach, Florida
-- where players worked as waiters, bellhops and cooks. The two
teams played exhibition games during the week, and reserved
Sundays for games against each other.  White hotel owners welcomed these collaborations. Baseball
games filled periods of the day when waiters might otherwise sit
idle, and although double duty probably affected employees’
performance as both athletes and waiters, the late 19th century
wasn’t an era in which many bosses cared about the effects of
overwork on productivity. Games also offered free publicity to
hotels through sports coverage in the news media. Perhaps most
importantly, black baseball offered a novel entertainment that
drew guests to resort hotels.  Black baseball entrepreneurs, meanwhile, used these hotels
to subsidize their infant industry. The hotels provided food,
shelter and a cash income during the resort season, helping
teams remain solvent through the rest of the year. Playing for
white audiences also encouraged white interest in black
baseball, and fed a psychological need that many historians have
noted -- Negro League ballplayers wanted to give white fans the
opportunity to compare them to white players.  Most importantly, hotels offered entrepreneurs and players
access to patrons. Sometimes, meeting the right guest could make
a season’s work in a hotel worthwhile. In their 1885 summer
season at the Argyle Hotel, Thompson and Govern met a white
investor named Walter Cook who bought the team and gave it a
home base in Trenton, New Jersey, which allowed the club to tour
the northeast, playing black and white professional and semi-pro
clubs, and colleges like Yale, Princeton, Amherst and the
University of Pennsylvania. Without such connections, it might
have been many more years before black baseball could support
professional teams.  Strategic Partnership  Individual black players also used hotel jobs to make
professional contacts. In 1901, second baseman Charles Grant of
the Columbia Giants quit his team in Chicago, moved to  Arkansas ,
and got a job as a bellhop at the hotel where John J. McGraw
brought the Baltimore Orioles for training camp. McGraw saw
Grant playing around the hotel grounds with other workers, and
tried to pass him off as a Cherokee named Chief Tokohama. Had
others not seen through the ruse, Grant might have crossed the
color line 46 years before Jackie Robinson.  In today’s atmosphere of racial integration, it’s hard to
imagine a time when black entrepreneurs and athletes had to wait
tables at resort hotels to make ends meet. But those hotels
played a role in breaking down the color line. The strategic
partnership that Negro League teams forged with the hotel
industry helped nurture a level of athletic excellence that,
decades down the road, white baseball managers, players and fans
finally had to acknowledge.  (Daniel Levinson Wilk is an assistant professor of American
History at the Fashion Institute of Technology. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Daniel Levinson Wilk at
 daniel_levinsonwilk@fitnyc.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  