-- Neptune Orient Predicts Better Performance After Cutting Costs
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-02-22T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/neptune-orient-loss-widens-as-weak-europe-damps-cargo-trade.html
Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL) ,  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest container-shipping company, said cost cuts and
new ships will help it post a “better performance” this year
after reporting its third  annual loss  in four years.  “The company will start 2013 with a better cost base as a
result of a modern fleet,” the Singapore-based company said in
a  statement  yesterday. Barring unforeseen circumstances, the
company expects a better performance than in 2012.”  With trade slumping on the Asia-Europe route because of
weak economies and rising unemployment, Neptune Orient --
selling its headquarters, shedding assets and disposing older
vessels -- pared costs by $504 million last year, according to
the statement. The company joined A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, owner
of the world’s biggest container-shipping line, in forecasting
an optimistic outlook for this year.  Maersk Line, which reported earnings yesterday, also
reduced its fleet and slowed vessel speeds last year to curb
overcapacity as falling worldwide consumer demand stints cargo
volume and hurts freight charges. Maersk Line said profit this
year will be higher than the $461 million reached in 2012 as the
company cuts costs and container demand-growth accelerates.  “General market conditions in 2012 remained challenging,”
Group Chief Executive Officer Ng Yat Chung said in the statement.
“But thanks to our focus on increasing efficiencies throughout
the group, we are in a better competitive position than before.
We are starting 2013 on a stronger footing than a year before.”  Severe Oversupply  The net loss in the three months ended Dec. 28 was $98
million, compared with the average $12.6 million loss forecast
of five  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. A year
earlier, the company had a $320.4 million loss, according to a
 statement  the shipping liner sent to the Singapore stock
exchange yesterday.  The company, which had a loss in seven of the past eight
quarters, had a full-year net loss of $419 million.  “The container shipping industry continues to face severe
oversupply,” Neptune Orient said in the statement.  APL Ltd., Neptune Orient’s container-shipping arm, moved
802,000 forty-foot equivalent cargo boxes in the quarter, 3
percent lower than a year earlier, because of trade between  Asia 
and Europe.  The euro-area economy will shrink for a second year in 2013,
driving unemployment higher as governments, consumers and
companies curb spending, the European Commission said yesterday.
The 17-nation euro zone’s gross domestic product will fall 0.3
percent this year, compared with a November prediction of 0.1
percent growth, the Brussels-based commission forecast.  Selling Headquarters  Neptune Orient, whose business include container shipping,
terminals and logistics operations, gained 0.4 percent to close
at S$1.225 yesterday before the earnings announcement. The stock
has advanced 7 percent this year, compared with a 3.8 percent
increase in the benchmark Straits Times Index.  The company is selling its headquarters to fund “strategic
investments,” it said in October, without elaborating. The ship
operator is also adding larger and more fuel efficient ships to
compete amid rising competition.  APL Ltd. earned an average revenue per box of $2,419, a 3
percent increase. The unit filled 92 percent of capacity in the
three-month period, unchanged from a year earlier.  Spot rates to haul a 20-foot container to  Europe  from Asia
rose 5.2 percent to $1,218 in the fourth quarter, according to
the Shanghai Shipping Exchange. Those to the U.S. west coast
dropped 19 percent to $1,112. Lines need at least $1,200 to make
money, according to shipbroker ICAP.  APL operated 129 vessels with a combined capacity of
587,000 20-foot boxes as of Dec. 28, Neptune Orient said. It has
received 10 ships last year, another 15 in 2013 and nine in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  