-- Novartis Is Negotiating Consulting Agreement With Vasella
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-02-22T14:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/novartis-is-negotiating-consulting-agreement-with-vasella.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  is negotiating a
consulting agreement with outgoing Chairman  Daniel Vasella , the
company’s top lawyer said three days after the drugmaker
scrapped an accord to pay Vasella as much as $78 million for not
competing with Novartis after he steps down today.  The outcome of the consulting talks will be made public,
General Counsel Felix Ehrat said at the company’s annual
shareholder meeting today in  Basel ,  Switzerland . Vasella, 59,
won’t be paid for his role as honorary chairman, though will
have an office, administrative support and security, Ehrat said.  Shareholders questioned Vice Chairman Ulrich Lehner and
Novartis executives today about the non-compete agreement, which
caused an uproar in Switzerland last week, two weeks before
voters cast ballots in a March 3 referendum to limit executive
pay. The company announced that the agreement existed, without
disclosing financial details. The blog Inside Paradeplatz
revealed the amount involved on Feb. 15, and the company
subsequently confirmed it.  Without the leak, “then no one would have known about the
gigantic sums you were talking about,” Dominique Biedermann,
executive director of  Ethos , a foundation that advises
institutional investors on corporate governance issues, said at
today’s meeting. “That leaves a very bad impression of how the
board of directors works here. We had the impression none of you
have the courage to stand up to” Vasella.  ‘Fierce Reproaches’  Vasella had offered to donate the payment to charity. The
agreement called for him to receive as much as 12 million Swiss
francs ($12.9 million) annually for six years.  “The heated reactions and fierce reproaches against me for
the much-discussed non-compete agreement have certainly left
their mark on me,” Vasella told shareholders today. “They show
two things: I made two avoidable mistakes. The first one was to
negotiate the non-compete agreement in the first place, and the
second one was that waiving the payment and donating it to
charity would be regarded as positive.  ‘‘I carry responsibility and that is why I accept public
criticism.’’  Vice Chairman Ulrich Lehner defended the decision to award
the pay for not competing.  ‘‘We are still convinced it was essential to include a non-
compete in the contract and provide appropriate compensation,’’
he said today.  Shareholders, in a non-binding vote, approved a new
compensation system at Novartis. Biedermann had urged a vote
against the system, saying the pay for Chief Executive Officer
 Joe Jimenez  is too high. The CEO’s compensation in 2012 was 13.2
million francs.  They also elected Joerg Reinhardt, a former Novartis
executive who later ran the health-care business at  Bayer AG (BAYN) , to
succeed Vasella on Aug. 1. Lehner will serve as chairman until
then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  