-- Nude Satyrs, Stuffed Goat Sex Can’t Save ‘1993’ Show
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/nude-satyrs-stuffed-goat-sex-can-t-save-1993-show.html
Paul McCarthy ’s animated, life size-
mannequin tableau “Cultural Gothic” at first suggests a benign
department store window display. It actually depicts a boy
having sexual intercourse with a stuffed goat, as his father
approvingly looks on.  In Cheryl Donegan’s video, “Head,” there’s a green
plastic bottle spewing what looks like milk.  Two nude satyrs wrestle in the back of a moving limousine
in Matthew Barney’s film “Drawing Restraint 7.”  And the looped video in a Lutz Bacher piece has footage
from William Kennedy Smith’s rape trial -- he repeats the
mantra: “Uh, I did have my penis ... inside her.”  They are all part of “NYC 1993: Experimental Jet Set,
Trash and No Star,” the New Museum’s huge, five-floor show
named after an album by Sonic Youth.  The curators reason that 1993 marks the year when issues we
are still dealing with today, from gay rights and gun control to
multiculturalism and identity politics, took center stage. It
was also when many of the art stars represented here, including
Matthew Barney, John Currin and Paul McCarthy, were emerging on
the  New York  scene.  It begins on the fifth floor with 12 video monitors that
act as a monthly visual timeline of the news and events from
that year.  Sexual Identity  The provocative and politically-charged art on view
addresses the same subjects: the AIDS crisis, violence,
feminism, sexual and racial identity.  Only a few works rise above agitprop. Affecting yet dismal
is Nari Ward’s low-lit sculpture and soundwork “Amazing
Grace.” It comprises an oval assemblage of some 300 discarded
baby strollers harnessed together by old fire hoses. It’s
installed next door in the annex.  Also worthwhile are straightforward documentary photographs
of  Cleveland ,  Ohio , by  John Miller , and of Sarajevo by  Annie Leibovitz , including a portrait of Susan Sontag amid rubble and
a child’s downed bicycle in a skid-mark of blood.  These images catapult us back to the realities of 1993.  On a different note, Robert Gober’s sculpture “Prison
Window” is a teasing little slice of sunny hope embedded high
on a gallery wall.  Light Bulbs  A large, spare multi-artist installation on the fourth
floor offers temporary oasis. Felix Gonzalez-Torres’s wraparound
photographic mural depicting two birds in flight provides
backdrop for his dangling strings of light bulbs.  Kristin Oppenheim’s luscious audio work “Sail on Sailor”
helps to aerate the overpowering smell of Rudolf Stingel’s
orange wall-to-wall carpet.  It’s the most imaginative and effectively orchestrated area
of this generally uninspired and unoriginal exhibition.  “NYC 1993” could have been a fresh reexamination of a
turbulent period. Instead, it is primarily a rehash of the
narrow-minded 1993  Whitney Biennial . Text-laden and
installation-heavy, that Biennial was aesthetically vapid and
most of the working artists I respect chose to boycott it.  This show, as a self-proclaimed “time capsule,” is an
exhibition built on hindsight, yet it’s flying blind.  “NYC 1993: Experimental Jet Set, Trash and No Star” runs
through May 26 at the New Museum, 235 Bowery. Information: +1-
212-219-1222;  http://www.newmuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s  podcast  and Zinta
Lundborg’s NYC  Weekend Best .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 