-- Obama Cyber Order Gives U.S. Lamakers Cover on Standards
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-02-22T03:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/obama-cyber-order-gives-u-s-lamakers-cover-on-standards.html
President  Barack Obama ’s order to
boost U.S. cybersecurity amid reports of widespread Chinese
hacking provides cover to lawmakers who oppose government 
regulation to improve computer defenses.  While the president portrayed his move as countering
Congress’s inaction, his cybersecurity standards for companies
operating vital national infrastructure are voluntary, not
mandatory as called for by an Obama-backed Senate bill that
failed last year. Still, the order may let Democrats and
Republicans declare standards a moot point.  “The executive order takes pressure off the Senate and
will allow us to get agreement on a voluntary information
sharing bill that will solve 90 percent of the most
sophisticated cyber threats that we face,” House Intelligence
Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican, said in
an interview. “The executive order tones down the political
rhetoric that was caught up in election year politics.”  A report this week from computer security firm Mandiant
Corp. that pointed to the Chinese army as the source of hacking
attacks on U.S. companies hasn’t changed minds in Washington on
cybersecurity approaches, said Jacob Olcott, a principal at Good
Harbor Consulting, an Arlington, Virginia-based security risk
company. Republicans led by Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona 
blocked the Senate bill last year, saying it would burden
companies with regulations.  On Pause  “The debate about critical infrastructure regulation seems
to be on pause for the foreseeable future,” said Olcott, former
counsel to Senate Commerce Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a
West Virginia Democrat. The fact that such requirements are off
the table “when everybody knows there’s a real threat out there
should say a lot.”  The Mandiant report didn’t tell lawmakers anything they
didn’t already know, Representative Michael McCaul, a Texas
Republican and chairman of the House  Homeland Security 
Committee, said in an interview.  “The report reveals a page in a phone book of threats,”
McCaul said. “What I’m interested in is a bill that can pass
through the Senate and get signed by the White House.”  Rogers and the House Intelligence Committee’s top Democrat,
C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland , reintroduced a
proposal Feb. 13 to give legal protection for companies that
share cyber threat information with each other and the
government. The bill passed the House last April and failed to
advance in the Senate after Obama threatened a veto, saying the
measure didn’t go far enough to boost computer defenses and
failed to protect privacy of consumer data.  ‘Move Forward’  No effort has been made to reintroduce the Obama-backed
Senate bill that failed. That effort was led by  Joe Lieberman ,
the Connecticut Independent who has since retired.  Obama’s order, issued Feb. 12 as he began his  State of the
Union  speech, directs the government to develop voluntary
standards for companies operating infrastructure such as power
grids and air-traffic-control systems. It instructs U.S.
agencies to consider putting the standards into existing rules.  Senator Tom Carper, the Delaware Democrat who succeeded
Lieberman as chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee, said Congress should approve
legislation to “complement” the executive order without
specifying what actions should be taken.  Obama’s order was important because vital U.S. services are
under attack and the nation can’t afford to delay, Carper said
in an e-mail.  “Developing and passing legislation of this nature does
take time, but I am hopeful that we can move forward with a
hearing on this important topic in the near future,” he said.  ‘Blind Spots’  While not commenting on specific bills, administration
officials have pressed for legislation to encourage companies to
share cyber threat information with the government, something
they say only Congress can do.  “The government is often unaware of malicious activity
targeting our critical infrastructure,” General Keith Alexander, director of the National Security Agency and U.S.
Cyber Command, said at a Feb. 13 event at the Commerce
Department. These “blind spots” prevent the government from
protecting companies and the nation, he said.  The administration supports “targeted liability
protections” to protect companies that share cyber threat
information with the government and each other, and take part in
voluntary standards, Michael Daniel, the White House
cybersecurity coordinator, said Feb. 15 at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington.  Privacy Concerns  Caitlin Hayden, a White House spokeswoman, said yesterday
in an e-mail that any cybersecurity measure advanced by Congress
must also incorporate privacy and civil-liberties protections
that define the types of information that can be shared and
ensuring adequate oversight.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  and other groups oppose
the Rogers-Ruppersberger bill, saying it doesn’t have adequate
safeguards for consumer privacy and could allow sensitive
personal information to be passed to the National Security
Agency and other military agencies.  “There’s no need to rush into something like CISPA,”
Michelle Richardson, ACLU legislative counsel, said in an
interview, referring to the Rogers bill by its title, the Cyber
Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business
lobby, believes the executive orders give companies and
lawmakers “a chance to see what works and what doesn’t without
the need for new mandates,” Ann Beauchesne, the Chamber’s vice
president of national security and emergency preparedness, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The Chamber lobbied against the Obama-backed Senate bill
and supports the Rogers-Ruppersberger legislation.  “Congress must continue to work on bipartisan legislation
that would put timely, reliable, and actionable information into
the hands of business owners and operators so that they can
better protect their systems and assets against cyber attacks,”
Beauchesne said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  