-- Omers Posts 10% Return for 2012 on Private Investments
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-02-22T18:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/omers-posts-10-return-for-2012-on-private-investments.html
Ontario Municipal Employees
Retirement System, a pension fund manager in  Canada ’s most-
populous province, posted a 10 percent return on investments
last year, led by private equity and real estate.  Net investment income rose to C$5.2 billion ($5.1 billion)
from C$1.36 billion in 2011, the Toronto-based fund manager
said. Omers, as the fund is known, managed C$60.8 billion in
assets as of Dec. 31, up from C$55.1 billion a year earlier,
Omers said today in a statement.  “We’ve had a reasonably good year in terms of our
returns,” Michael Nobrega, chief executive officer, told
reporters in Toronto.  Omers benefited from higher returns from its holdings in
real estate, private equity and infrastructure, as well as
investments in stocks and bonds. The fund beat the 9.4 percent
median return of Canadian pension funds for 2012, based on a
Jan. 29 report by Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Investor Services
unit.  Returns from private equity were 19 percent, while its
Oxford Properties real-estate unit had a 17 percent return.
Infrastructure investments returned 13 percent, according to the
statement.  Omers Capital Markets, which oversees investments in
stocks, bonds and other debt investments, had a 7.5 percent
return, the fund manager said. Canada’s benchmark  S&P/TSX
Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 4 percent while the MSCI World Index rose
13 percent in 2012.  Oil-and-Gas  Omers Strategic Investments, which focuses on venture
capital and Western Canadian energy assets, lost 10 percent
after its holdings in  Alberta ’s oil-and-gas sector fell with
declining energy prices.  Nobrega sees “tremendous” opportunities for Omers to
pursue takeovers of junior oil-and-gas companies as those firms
face difficulties financing existing assets and projects amid
lower oil prices.  “We’ve had more opportunities in the last two weeks than
we’ve had in three years,” Nobrega said. “There are
opportunities for the acquisition of oil-and-gas properties,
both in Saskatchewan and in Alberta.”  Omers said its deficit increased to C$9.9 billion in 2012
from C$7.3 billion a year earlier. Omers manages pensions for
429,000 retired and active municipal employees in Ontario.  Toronto Casino  Omers isn’t associated with any casino company seeking to
bring a gambling center to Canada’s most-populous city, Nobrega
said. Omers owns the Metro Toronto Convention Centre, one of the
potential locations cited for such a facility.  “We will not invest in a casino, we will not own the
casino,” Nobrega said. “If somehow it comes to the Metro
Convention Centre, it’s simply a piece of land allocated to a
casino operator whom we have done a deal with.”  Nobrega said he doesn’t think Toronto would approve a
casino.  Nobrega also said he’s frustrated by government legislation
that oversees Canadian pension funds, particularly a rule that
limits the pension managers from holding more than 30 percent of
the votes to elect company directors.  “Everybody preaches that the pension funds in Canada do a
very good job internationally, but we are governed by
legislation that is totally inadequate,” Nobrega said.  Omers has been lobbying for 10 years to change the so-
called 30 percent rule, Nobrega said.  “We’re uncompetitive because we’re not governed by the
same rules, and we have to twist ourselves like a pretzel to
make sure we can make international investments,” Nobrega said.
“It’s very, very difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  