-- Honda’s North American Corporate Unit Shifting to Ohio
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-02-23T00:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/honda-s-north-american-corporate-unit-shifting-to-ohio.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) , the first Japanese
automaker to build cars in the U.S., is consolidating corporate
operations for North America in  Ohio  and setting up a regional
support services unit there to boost efficiency.  Honda North America Inc., now based in Torrance,
 California , will move to Marysville, Ohio, effective April 1,
the company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. About 50
employees, including senior executives from Torrance, will
relocate to Marysville as a result, said Jeffrey Smith, a
spokesman for the Tokyo-based carmaker. Torrance will remain
Honda’s U.S. sales and marketing base, he said.  “Honda has been giving North America more and more
responsibility for designing and developing vehicles, and this
is part of that,” said Michael Robinet, managing director of
IHS Automotive. “It’s certainly a move to improve efficiency
since you’ll have the people responsible for product
development, engineering and manufacturing all in one place.”  Honda,  Japan ’s third-largest automaker, counts North
America as its biggest global market and largest source of
profit and sales. The company’s Marysville factory was the first
Japanese auto-assembly plant in the U.S., beginning auto
production in 1982.  The company also has set a goal of becoming a net exporter
of cars and trucks from North America as production operations
in the region grow.  Improving Speed  “These organizational changes will improve the speed of
decision-making and the efficiency of our business operations,”
 Tetsuo Iwamura , Honda’s executive vice president and chief
operating officer for North America, said in a statement.
Iwamura will split his time among Marysville, Torrance and
 Tokyo , Smith said.  Along with his regional duties, Iwamura, 61, will also
become Honda’s chief operating officer for global automobile
operations and risk management officer from April 1, the company
said. Fumihiko Ike, chief financial officer and senior managing
officer, will become chairman from April 1, Honda said.  The company is creating Honda North America Services LLC in
Marysville to coordinate support functions for Honda’s units in
the region. Hidenobu Iwata, head of production for North
America, will lead the services unit.  The changes won’t result in additional employment at this
time, Smith said.  Honda also said yesterday it’s promoting long-serving U.S.
and Canadian managers. From April 1, Bob Nelson becomes
president of the Greensburg, Indiana, auto plant, which produces
Civic small cars; Jon Minto will lead Honda Engineering North
America, which makes the company’s manufacturing equipment; and
Dan Smith will be president of Honda’s Alliston, Ontario, auto
plant, which assembles the Civic and the CR-V sport-utility
vehicle.  Honda’s American depositary receipts rose 1.9 percent to
$37.56 at the close yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  