-- H.K. Doubles Stamp Duty on All Properties on Bubble Risks
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-02-22T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/hong-kong-doubles-stamp-duty-on-all-properties-on-bubble-concern.html
Hong Kong  doubled the  sales tax  on
property costing more than HK$2 million ($258,000) and targeted
commercial real estate for the first time as bubble risks spread
from apartments to parking spaces, shops and hotels.  The stamp duty will increase to 8.5 percent of the purchase
price for all properties, Hong Kong Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said at a briefing yesterday. The Hong Kong Monetary
Authority also tightened mortgage terms for commercial
properties and parking spaces.  The government widened its property curbs to cover
commercial transactions after earlier this week hundreds of
people turned up to buy hotel rooms being sold by  Li Ka-shing ’s
 Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. (1)  in the city, prompting a warning
from the government.  Home prices  have doubled in the past four
years on near-record low  mortgage rates , an influx of mainland
Chinese buyers and a lack of new supply.  “This again shows the government’s determination to curb
prices,” said Thomas Lam, head of research for  Greater China  at
Knight Frank LLP. “It will affect the luxury residential sector
and also investors of buildings and commercial properties. This
will add a lot to their purchasing cost.”  The value of retail shop transactions rose 78 percent from
a year earlier to HK$85 billion in 2012, as curbs on  home prices 
prompted investors to seek other properties, according to
Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held
realtor. That’s the highest since at least 1996, when the
realtor began collecting data.  More Measures  Hong Kong’s curbs come after  Singapore  introduced measures
last month that included an increase in the stamp duty for
homebuyers by between 5 percentage points and 7 percentage
points and a stamp duty for sellers of industrial buildings,
starting at 15 percent if the property is sold within a year.  Under the new rules, Hong Kong property deals below HK$2
million will incur stamp duty of 1.5 percent of the purchase
price, from HK$100. The tax for those over HK$2 million will be
raised to as much as 8.5 percent from 4.25 percent, Tsang said.  The measures take effect today and local permanent
residents who don’t own homes will be exempted.  Buyers of non-residential properties will be required to
pay stamp duties when they sign the purchase agreement, he said.  Prices of offices rose 23 percent in 2012, while those of
retail spaces advanced 39 percent, Tsang said.  Hong Kong has the world’s highest shop rents and is the
world’s second-most expensive place to rent  office space ,
property brokers, including CBRE Group Inc. and Cushman &
Wakefield Inc., have said.  ‘Destructive Power’  “The property market bubble risks have only increased and
not decreased,” Tsang said. “If we allow the risk to continue
to expand, ultimately it will affect the macroeconomic and
financial system’s stability. The destructive power on society
will be considerably large. The price of non-residential
property has also soared.”  The HKMA will require banks to lower the maximum mortgage
loan-to-value ratio on commercial properties by 10 percentage
points,  Norman Chan , chief executive of the authority, said in a
separate briefing yesterday. The monetary authority is also
limiting the maximum mortgage for carpark space to 40 percent of
the value, with a 15 year-cap on the length of the loan.  Concerns that housing is becoming unaffordable has forced
Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying to introduce a raft of measures
since taking over in July as the city’s leader.  Leung’s government in October imposed an extra 15 percent
tax on all home purchases by companies and non-permanent
residents, adding to earlier steps including accelerating new
home sale approvals and tightening banks’ mortgage lending.  Housing Package  Leung said in September he will restrict homebuyers of two
building sites the government plans to sell to local residents,
a week after announcing a 10-point package to rein in prices,
including accelerating new home sale approval and giving
preference to local buyers.  “The government probably senses that property prices are
still going up even after the last round of curbs,” in October,
Simon Lo, Hong Kong-based head of research and consultancy at
Colliers International, said in a phone interview yesterday
before the new measures were announced. “They feel it’s time to
act again.”  Leung said in his policy address last month that the
government will provide land to build 75,000 homes in the next
five years, and the private sector may sell 67,000 in the next
three to four years. The total of 142,000 compares with the
124,000 built in the previous five years.  Biggest Risk  Household debt in the city is near historic high levels,
the HKMA’s Chan said Feb. 4, citing ratios of 58 percent to 59
percent of gross domestic product in the third and fourth
quarters.  Overheating in the housing market is the biggest risk to
financial stability, Chan said, echoing a warning in December
from the  International Monetary Fund .  Hong Kong’s central bank last tightened mortgage lending in
September after saying the U.S. Federal Reserve’s latest
quantitative easing risks pushing up home prices that have
already surpassed their October 1997 peak. That marked the start
of a 70 percent decline to August 2003 as measured by the
Centaline index.  Hong Kong banks’ borrowing costs are tied to the U.S.
because of the currency peg, while the city’s economic growth is
linked to  China .  Affordability Survey  Hong Kong is the world’s most expensive place to buy an
apartment, according to London-based property broker  Savills
Plc. (SVS)   The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP)  has risen 29 percent since
Leung took over as Hong Kong’s leader in July, compared with the
17 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Hong Kong homes cost 13.5 times the gross median household
income, up from 12.6 times a year ago, the most expensive
housing market in an annual affordability survey by Belleville,
Illinois-based consulting company Demographia released last
month. The survey examined housing prices in Australia, Canada,
Hong Kong, Ireland,  New Zealand , the U.K. and the U.S.  A reading of 5.1 or more is considered “severely
unaffordable,” while below 3 is seen as affordable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  