-- Top Canadian Junk Bond Manager Marshall Sees Rally Ending
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-02-22T13:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/top-junk-fund-manager-marshall-sees-rally-ending-canada-credit.html
CI Investments Inc.’s Geof Marshall,
the second-biggest Canadian manager of high-yield debt, said the
four-year rally in below-investment-grade bonds is coming to an
end as companies begin to take on too much risk.  “The high-yield rally is long in the tooth,” Marshall,
who manages $6.8 billion as head of high-yield investments, said
in a Feb. 20 interview at his Toronto office. Investors can
expect “coupon-like returns” this year, he said. The Bank of
America Merrill Lynch High-Yield Index gained 18.8 percent in
2012, beating the returns of investment-grade corporate debt for
the third time in four years.  After using junk bonds to propel his Signature Diversified
Yield mutual fund to the top 10 among Canadian balanced funds
last year, Marshall is cutting holdings of the securities to 35
percent, from 40 percent in the middle of 2012. Following four
years of balance-sheet repair and cost-cutting, many issuers are
shifting their preference back to boosting return on equity,
while the re-emergence of debt-laden takeovers such as  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
and  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ)  will undermine confidence, he said.  “Companies can borrow cheaply, shareholders are clamoring
for returns, so to the extent that high-yield companies can
borrow for growth or to increase dividends, I think you’ll see
more of that,” Marshall said. “The quality of high-yield
issuance probably begins to deteriorate in general.”  Fund Returns  The C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) Signature Diversified
Yield fund returned 12.3 percent in 2012, beating 94 percent of
competitors and placing it seventh among 636 so-called global
neutral balance funds tracked by Morningstar Inc. CI Investments
is the second-biggest Canadian investor in high-yield debt after
Royal Bank of Canada, according to Morningstar.  Silver Lake Management LLC’s proposed plan to take over
computer maker Dell with $13.8 billion of debt marks the biggest
leveraged buyout since the financial crisis.  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  and 3G Capital’s acquisition will saddle ketchup-maker
Heinz with $14.1 billion of borrowings and denuded it of its
investment-grade rating by Fitch Ratings.  “The Heinz and Dell deals are very topical,” Marshall
said. “That’s an example of new high-yield debt that will be in
general lower-quality than the bulk of the market because those
are leveraging transactions as opposed to deleveraging
transactions.”  Junk Skeptics  Marshall joins KKR Financial Holdings LLC, the credit unit
of the private-equity firm run by Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , which cut a portfolio of high-yield debt by 39 percent
in the second half of last year. Loomis Sayles & Co.’s Dan Fuss
said last month that the market for junk bonds is “overbought”
with “ridiculous” valuations.  About $506 billion of dollar-denominated junk bonds are
trading above the price that their issuers may buy them back at
later, limiting potential gains, Morgan Stanley data show.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at Standard &
Poor’s.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian investment-grade companies
rather than that of the federal government narrowed one basis
point yesterday from a day earlier to 126 basis points, or 1.26
percentage points, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. Yields fell to 2.97 percent, from 3 percent on Feb. 20.  Government bonds rose, pushing the yield on the benchmark
 10-year note  down one basis point to 1.97 percent at 8:40 a.m.
in Toronto. The price of the 2.75 percent securities maturing in
June 2022 gained 12 cents to C$106.60.  Sector Returns  In the provincial bond market, the spread to government
benchmarks narrowed one basis point to 73 yesterday. Yields fell
to 2.65 percent, from 2.69 percent, the index data show.  Canadian corporate bonds have returned 0.2 percent this
year compared with a loss of 0.9 percent by Canadian government
bonds and the 1.1 percent decline in provincial debt, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Canadian high-yield debt returned 1.16 percent since
December as of Feb. 20, compared with a gain of 1.51 percent for
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global High-Yield index.  Marshall forecast relative yields would continue to narrow
in April 2012 even as speculation mounted Greece would be
banished from the euro, destabilizing the banking system and
triggering sales of risky debt. Instead, efforts by central
banks around the world to ward off recession kept key borrowing
rates low and spurred unprecedented demand for junk bonds.  Best Performer  Marshall’s Signature High Income Fund was named best global
neutral balanced fund over three, five and 10 years by Lipper
Inc. this month. Marshall runs the fund with Ryan Fitzgerald and
Joe D’Angelo.  “What we’re doing is very gradually letting the high-yield
weight fall” in funds including the High Income fund, where
junk is mixed with other assets, Marshall said. “As we get
inflows, the marginal dollars are being invested in equities as
opposed to credit.”  Apart from equities, Marshall is boosting bets on U.S.
dollar leveraged loans, which pay similar coupons of about 6
percent to U.S. junk bonds and get paid first in bankruptcies.  “The value gap between loans and high-yield bonds is
greatly diminished,” he said.  That gap vanished in September, when U.S. speculative grade
yields fell to one basis point less than a measure of what’s
being paid by senior secured loans, according to  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  Junk bonds paid an average 103 basis points more than
loans over the past three years, JPMorgan data show.  Subordinated Debt  Marshall is also boosting returns by buying subordinated
debt of insurers including Lincoln National Corp., Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. and Lloyds TSB Group. Some of the
securities still trade below face value after steep mark-downs
in the wake of the financial crisis, increasing yields for
investors.  “We’re at the cusp of transitioning from a market that’s
driven by systemic, macro challenges, risk-on, risk-off, to a
market that’s going to be more idiosyncratic,” Marshall said.
“I don’t think the high-yield trade is over per se, I just
think that returns are going to be lower going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  