-- Origin Open to Deal With Competitor in Queensland’s LNG Industry
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-22T01:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/origin-open-to-deal-with-competitor-in-queensland-s-lng-industry.html
Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) , ConocoPhillips’s
partner in a A$24.7 billion ($25 billion) natural gas project in
Australia’s Queensland state, said it’s open to collaborating
with rivals such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   “We’re open to that proposition,” Origin Managing
Director Grant King said yesterday in a phone interview when
asked about the potential for a deal with Shell and PetroChina
Co.-owned Arrow Energy Ltd. “We’re not giving any running
commentary on whether such conversation is occurring. We remain
open to those discussions. It won’t be ruled out on our part.”  Origin,  Santos Ltd. (STO)  and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  are building three
liquefied natural gas plants on the Queensland coast. Shell said
last year that it may delay a decision on whether to go ahead
with the Arrow LNG venture until 2014 amid rising costs in
 Australia  and that it was studying plans to combine its Arrow
gas resources with third parties.  King declined to be more specific about any collaboration
opportunities in Queensland. It may make sense for Arrow “to
consolidate with, or sell gas into one of the existing LNG
terminals” operated by Origin or Santos, according to a Nov. 26
report from Goldman Sachs Australia Pty.  Origin yesterday reported a 7 percent cost increase at the
Australia Pacific LNG project and cut its forecast for full-year
profit for the second time in three months. Standard & Poor’s
cut Origin’s credit rating to BBB from BBB+.  Infrastructure  Origin may sell infrastructure assets, including pipelines,
connected to the Queensland LNG development as an alternative to
selling a stake in the venture, King said. The Sydney-based
company said last year that it was looking to lower its holding
in the project to 30 percent from 37.5 percent.  “At the right value or price we would still dilute our
interest,” King said. “But there are other ways of achieving
the same effect as dilution, for example, liberating our assets
like infrastructure,” he added.  BG, the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas producer, is
working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as it considers selling
pipelines and other equipment at its Queensland project, said
two people with knowledge of the matter.  Origin won’t need to sell shares to fund its project, King
said. China Petrochemical Corp., known as Sinopec Group, owns 25
percent, while Houston-based  ConocoPhillips (COP)  has 37.5 percent.  “We’re confident that at a BBB, we can fund our interest
in APLNG without raising equity,” he said. “We can take right
off the table whether we need to raise equity or in fact dilute
our interest in APLNG as a way of funding the project.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  