-- Lorillard Falls After FDA Tobacco Chief Named: Atlanta Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-02-22T21:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/lorillard-falls-after-fda-tobacco-chief-named-atlanta-mover.html
Lorillard Inc. (LO) , the largest U.S.
maker of menthol cigarettes, fell the most in five months after
the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  named a new chief for its
tobacco unit.  Lorillard slumped 3.8 percent to $41.15 at the close in  New
York , its biggest drop since Sept. 12. The shares gave up almost
half of their gain this year after having risen 10 percent
through yesterday.  Mitchell Zeller, a previous FDA tobacco regulator, takes
over from Larry Deyton as head of the Center for Tobacco
Products March 4,  Margaret Hamburg , the agency’s commissioner,
said yesterday in a memo to employees. The FDA is reviewing
whether to ban menthol, a minty flavoring, under a 2009 law
restricting tobacco marketing and barring cigarette makers from
adding flavors such as clove and strawberry.  Lorillard Chief Executive Officer Murray Kessler has said
menthol cigarettes don’t warrant greater regulation than regular
cigarettes. Robert Bannon, a spokesman for the Greensboro, North
Carolina-based company, declined today to comment on Zeller’s
appointment.  Zeller’s appointment represents “a firm indication of the
FDA’s continued commitment to serious regulatory efforts in this
area,” Patrick Hughes, an analyst with investment advisers
Height Analytics LLC in Washington, said today in a note.  The company said on Feb. 13 that it controlled 38.3 percent
of the U.S. market for menthol cigarettes.  The American Legacy Foundation, an anti-tobacco group
based in  Washington , welcomed the appointment of Zeller, saying
in a statement that the hiring of an “accomplished lawyer,
tobacco control strategist and advocate for public health”
signals the FDA’s commitment to “ending the tobacco epidemic.”  With assistance from Anna Edney in Washington. Editors:
Anita Sharpe, James Callan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  