-- Low Prices Hit Farm Belt as Growers Get More Crop, Less Cash
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-02-22T13:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/low-prices-hit-farm-belt-as-growers-may-get-more-crop-less-cash.html
Prices for the two biggest U.S.
crops will fall this year on record corn and soybean production,
easing food inflation while providing less cash for growers
recovering from drought, the government said.  Corn will plunge 33 percent and soybeans will drop 27
percent,  Joe Glauber , the chief economist at the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture , said yesterday at the agency’s annual outlook
forum. Corn inventories before the 2014 harvest will triple from
this year’s projected figure, the department said today. The
increased supplies mean receipts for the major crops will fall
1.5 percent to $216.3 billion, the USDA said.  The lower prices, which are below a separate USDA 10-year
forecast made earlier this month, are a classic supply response
to the worst drought since the 1930s, Glauber said. After the
dry conditions pushed corn to a record $8.49 a bushel on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade in August, growers are planning to
produce more, driving prices lower as inventories rebuild, he
said. Farmer profit will still reach a record $128.2 billion
this year as supplies are replenished, the USDA said.  “High prices ahead of planting should encourage large corn
and soybean acreages, and, assuming normal yields, stock levels
should rebuild and prices should moderate,” Glauber said.  Planted Acreage  Farmers will plant 96.5 million acres of corn, for a crop
of 14.53 billion bushels, the USDA said. About 77.5 million
acres of soybeans will be sown, for projected output of 3.405
billion bushels; wheat acres will total 56 million, with
production at 2.1 billion bushels, the department said.  Corn  inventories  will reach 2.177 billion bushels by Aug.
31, 2014, the most since 1988, the USDA said, while soybean
supplies will total 250 million bushels, double a year earlier.
Wheat reserves on May 31, 2014, will be 639 million bushels,
down 7.5 percent.  Which crops farmers plant are crucial for  seed-and-
pesticide sellers including  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and  DuPont Co. (DD) , food-
makers such as  General Mills (GIS)  Co., and ethanol producers like
 Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , all of which have their profits
affected by the availability of farm products.  Prices for wheat, the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, after hay,
will drop 11 percent in the year starting June 1, the USDA said,
even as production falls because of lingering drought in the
western and southern Great Plains. Cotton prices will rise 2.8
percent while the area planted with the fiber falls to 10
million acres, the department said today.  Wheat Seedings  Wheat acreage will rise 0.5 percent. Combined with corn and
soybeans, plantings of the three crops may be the most since
1982, Glauber said.  “The record crop forecasts were sobering news and will
cast a negative bias to the corn and soybean markets,”  Richard Feltes , the vice president of research at R.J. O’Brien &
Associates in Chicago, said in an interview at the conference.  Farmers deciding what to plant are guided by concerns
ranging from the prices they expect at harvest and the cost of
fertilizer and other inputs to what the weather is likely to
allow. Corn yields on average about four times as much grain per
acre as wheat, for example, yet wheat needs much less water than
corn.  “You’re balancing soil conditions with what the likely
market is going to be,” Andy Novakovic, a professor of
agricultural economics at  Cornell University  in Ithaca,  New
York , said in an interview. “In some places, the drought isn’t
something farmers have to worry about anymore,” while in
others, growers aren’t even sure their seeds will germinate, he
said.  Adapted Seeds  Outside Mohall,  North Dakota , Jeff Oberholtzer is planning
to double the land he sows with corn this year, to about 600
acres, as seed varieties better adapted to northern conditions
are boosting his yields. With an ethanol plant nearby that will
buy the grain, it’s a sensible crop to grow, even at a lower
price, he said.  “It seems to be a better fit for us, and the soil looks
good,” said Oberholtzer, 29.  Corn prices paid to farmers this year are projected to
average $4.80 a bushel, down from $7.20; soybeans will average
$10.50, down from $14.30, while wheat will fall to $7 a bushel
from $7.90, the USDA said yesterday. Cotton prices are projected
to rise to 73 cents a pound from 71 cents.  Food Prices  The lower prices will be a boon to the livestock industry,
where the cattle herd has dropped to the smallest since 1952
after ranchers sold animals for slaughter to avoid high feed
costs last year, Bob Young, chief economist of the  American Farm
Bureau Federation , the largest U.S. farmer group, said in a
recent interview. Consumers may also be helped later in the
year, as replenished inventories will ease pressure on  food
costs , USDA food economist Richard Volpe said yesterday.  All projections of lower prices and higher supplies are
based on assumptions of normal weather, Glauber and Volpe said.
For many farmers, last year’s drought damage isn’t affecting
this year’s hopes. Jack McCormick’s parched Illinois soil last
year yielded about a quarter of the corn it normally does. This
year, he’s making no changes to his planting.  “If I knew we’d have a drought this year I’d plant less
corn, and if I knew it would be wet I’d plant more, but I don’t
know that,” said McCormick, who will split almost 1,200 acres
near Ellis Grove equally among corn, wheat and soybeans, just as
he did last year, before similar forecasts of a record harvest
were dashed by dryness.  “We have a good rotation,” he said. “We are not going to
change our cropping patterns just because of one year of
drought.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  