-- Paris-to-Frankfurt Forecasters Beat Wall Street Record
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-22T12:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/paris-to-frankfurt-forecasters-beat-wall-street-record.html
Distance from  Wall Street  has proven
an advantage for some overseas economic forecasters who have
been on-target with a more restrained outlook for U.S. growth
than their American counterparts.  Five of the eight most accurate forecasters of the  U.S.
economy  in the two years ended in December were outside the
U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They were led by
Christophe Barraud, of Market Securities-Kyte Group in Paris,
who studied economics in  France  and has never visited the U.S.  “I think that being in France helps me be more
objective,” said Barraud, 26, who earned a doctorate in
economics from the University of Paris-Dauphine. He said he’s
more prone to getting the French economy wrong, and has
“underestimated French economic fundamentals,” reflecting his
countrymen’s pessimism about their own economy. “On the U.S., I
have no bias.”  Other overseas forecasters whose U.S. outlooks have been
among the most accurate include Bernd Weidensteiner and
Christoph Balz, with Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt ; Gregorio De Felice, with  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  in Milan; Rudolf Besch and
Marina Luetje with DekaBank in Frankfurt; and Thomas Lam, with
OSK-DMG in  Singapore .  Overall, non-U.S. economists represented 24 of the 69 who
submitted forecasts to Bloomberg.  Outsider’s Advantage  An outsider’s view may have an advantage over Wall Street,
said New York-based Joshua Shapiro, chief U.S. economist at
Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. He was the most accurate economist
for the two-year period ended Sept. 30, and second-most accurate
in the latest period.  “One of the things that I believe contributes to my
reasonably good forecasting track record over the years is that
I consciously try to read very little of the stuff that is
produced by my counterparts,” he said. “I find that regardless
of how hard one tries, it is very difficult to avoid absorbing
other views and having them color your own.”  “I imagine that the distance that the non-U.S.-based folks
have from Wall Street group-think gives them a decided
advantage, and the good ones make the most of it.”  A base outside the U.S. may allow an economist to
incorporate more international perspective into forecasts, said
Lam, chief economist at OSK-DMG in Singapore. Last year,
 Europe ’s recession and  China ’s slowdown proved to be drags on
U.S.  exports  and influenced U.S. financial markets, he said.  Global Perspective  “It has been a quite difficult global environment,” Lam
said. “U.S. financial conditions are very tied to global
markets. It is quite important to analyzing the forecast from
that perspective.”  The overseas economists say they agree with the view,
championed by Harvard University economists  Carmen Reinhart  and
 Kenneth Rogoff , that financial crises including the 2008 U.S.
crisis are associated with slow recoveries.  The past two years have proven sluggish for the U.S.
economy, with growth averaging 1.8 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The past  recession  lasted 18 months,
ending in June 2009.  International forecasters also say they use methods based
on tracking sales and factory reports and largely ignore public
surveys of confidence.  For this year, Barraud projects the U.S. economy will
expand 1.6 percent, with  unemployment  dropping to 7.7 percent
from 7.9 percent. He said he’s concerned that slowing government
spending, including the automatic budget cuts known as the
sequester scheduled to start March 1, will hold back the
acceleration in growth that Federal Reserve policy makers are
forecasting.  Spending Reductions  “In the short term, the U.S. has to implement structural
reforms and needs to reduce some of its public spending, which
implies lower growth,” he said.  Barraud’s forecast for gross domestic product is less than
the median projection of 1.8 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 73
economists from Feb. 8 to Feb. 13. Estimates range from 1.2
percent to 2.4 percent. The median unemployment  forecast  for the
fourth quarter is 7.5 percent.  The professional forecasters are much less optimistic than
the Fed, where most officials foresaw 2.3 percent to 3 percent
growth, according to outlooks last made in December. The Fed
forecasters projected unemployment between 7.4 percent and 7.7
percent in the fourth quarter.  Unusual Success  The current success of non-U.S. forecasters is unusual. In
the rankings of most accurate forecasters that covered data
through December 2011, just two of the top 10 were based outside
the U.S.  The overseas outperformance is probably a temporary
circumstance, said  Ethan Harris , co-head of global economic
research at Bank of America Corp. in  New York , who formerly
worked at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York . “There is a lot
of randomness in the monthly data releases and sometimes the
best forecasters are simply good at finding some quirks in the
numbers.”  Foreign-based economists’ current rankings may be “a
coincidence, but I guess following this over time will answer
the question,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Plc in New York, who formerly worked at the Fed researching
household finances. Maki was the fifth-most accurate, according
to Bloomberg Rankings.  Sentiment Disconnect  Commerzbank’s Weidensteiner, who with Balz was most
accurate in forecasting personal spending during the past two
years, said his estimates on consumer reports rely on
understanding “there is often a disconnect between actual
spending and sentiment. Last quarter was a case in point with
 consumer spending  picking up while confidence plummeted.”  More generally, Weidensteiner said studying the
“tremendously large” U.S. economy is best done with a bird’s-
eye view, which doesn’t require being on the ground.  “You can’t see the U.S. economy in any case, regardless
whether you sit in Frankfurt,  Germany , or in New York,” he
said. “That is somewhat similar to astronomy. To analyze the
celestial movements of Jupiter, you don’t have to take residence
on that planet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  