-- PayPal Releases Mobile Card Reader Abroad Ahead of Competitors
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-02-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/paypal-releases-mobile-card-reader-abroad-ahead-of-competitors.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit is rolling
out a credit-card reader for small businesses outside the U.S.,
seeking to get a head start on rivals such as Square Inc. and
 Intuit Inc. (INTU)  while increasing its international presence.  The pocket-sized product, which uses so-called Chip and PIN
technology, will arrive in the U.K. this summer, said Hill
Ferguson, vice president of global product at PayPal. The
company introduced the U.S. version, called PayPal Here, in
March last year, aiming to gain the loyalty of cab drivers,
interior designers and other small businesses.  PayPal is competing with card readers from Square and
Intuit, which are available in the U.S. and  Canada . All three
help merchants accept non-cash payments on the go for set
transaction fees, letting sellers avoid shelling out big sums of
money for  credit-card  equipment. PayPal’s new reader gives the
company a way to extend its foothold in e-commerce transactions
to small businesses outside the U.S., where it garnered more
than half its $145 billion in payment volume last year.  “We’re bringing PayPal Here to market in countries where
swiping is not the norm,” Ferguson said in an interview. “It’s
a more complicated product because the hardware has to be
accredited and certified by banks and regulatory agencies. But
the value proposition is the same. We’re helping small
businesses sell more stuff.”  Bluetooth-Enabled  The new device, which took 18 months to develop, is enabled
with Bluetooth wireless technology and pairs with a smartphone
or an iPad, Ferguson said. After merchants use the PayPal Here
application to ring up a sale, the customer puts a credit card
into the reader and types in a personal identification number,
or PIN, which transmits and encrypts payment information.  PayPal hasn’t announced the cost structure of the product,
though it said merchants will incur a fee per transaction with
no contractual commitments or ongoing payments. In the U.S., the
company charges 2.7 percent per transaction on PayPal Here,
slightly less than Square’s rate of 2.75 percent.  PayPal, based in  San Jose ,  California , has declined to say
how many merchants are using its mobile card reader in the U.S.
or how much payment volume the device contributes. Square,
started in 2009, has 3 million merchants using its stamp-sized
swiper and transacted $10 billion in payments on an annualized
basis in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  