-- PBF Sees Crude Oil Trains Boosting East Coast Refinery Profits
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-02-22T16:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/pbf-sees-crude-oil-trains-boosting-east-coast-refinery-profits.html
PBF Energy Inc. (PBF)  is betting that
shipping discounted crude by rail from Canada and  North Dakota 
can make its East Coast refineries profitable on the heels of
several shut-downs in the region.  The refiner can unload 70,000 barrels a day of light crude
and 40,000 heavy oil at its Delaware City, Delaware, plant, and
will add 40,000 barrels a day more of heavy oil unloading
capacity by the end of the year, said Tom Nimbley, chief
executive officer of the Parsippany, New Jersey-based company,
in a fourth-quarter earnings call with analysts yesterday.  PBF, which has the largest share of East Coast refining
capacity at 28 percent, is trying to avoid the fate of other
refiners who have shut or sold plants in the region. The loss of
refining capacity has tightened fuel supplies near the  New York 
Harbor, the delivery point for gasoline and heating oil futures.  “The availability of domestic and Canadian crudes at much
better differentials to our Brent marker should lead to much
better results on the East Coast in 2013, and even better than
that in 2014 when our ability to process Canadian heavy
doubles,” said PBF Chairman Tom O’Malley.  Hess Corp. (HES)  is shutting its 70,000-barrel-a-day fluid
catalytic cracker in Port Reading, New Jersey, by the end of the
month. Sunoco Inc. shut Eagle Point, New Jersey, and  Marcus
Hook ,  Pennsylvania , sites in 2010 and 2011.  Rail Cars  Deutsche Bank AG analyst  Paul Sankey  referred on the call
to those plants as “zombie refineries” and asked whether PBF
executives thought those shuttered plants might reopen with new
access to discounted crude.  O’Malley said he didn’t think they would.  By the end of this year, PBF will have unloading racks in
Delaware City able to take 70,000 barrels a day of light crude
from the Bakken shale formation in North Dakota, 40,000 barrels
a day of bitumen, a tar-like substance from oil-sands formations
in  Alberta , and 40,000 barrels a day of Western Canada Select, a
heavy crude made by diluting bitumen.  The company also has ordered 3,600 coiled and insulated
rail cars to carry the heavy Canadian crude, which is so dense
it needs to be heated before it can be transported from rail car
to refinery.  “On the heavy crude side, we’re convinced that this is a
very, very, very long term trend,” O’Malley said. “The
movement of Canadian heavy crude by rail, particularly if you
can get bitumen into the the complex, and we can, then
that’s something that’s around for the next decade.”  Delaware City  PBF’s 182,200-barrel-a-day Delaware City  refinery  will run
all the heavy crude brought in by train, in addition other heavy
oil shipped on tankers from Mexico and  Venezuela , said Nimbley.
The Bakken crude will be shared by the Delaware plant and a
185,000-barrel-a-day  refinery  in Paulsboro,  New Jersey .  The smaller crude unit at Paulsboro will run all Bakken
crude. The larger crude unit will run about 100,000 barrels a
day of Saudi Arab Light, Nimbley said.  Bakken crude in Clearbrook,  Minnesota , was at a  discount  of
$22.77 a barrel to  Brent crude  yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Nimbley said it cost PBF $12.50 a barrel
to ship Bakken oil by rail to the refinery.  Western Canada Select cost $47.98 a barrel less than Brent
yesterday. The cost to ship heavy Canadian oil by rail is about
$17.50 a barrel, Nimbley said.  The Bakken shipments can replace higher-priced waterborne
imports of light crude from West Africa and the east coast of
 Canada , Nimbley said. In addition to the lower cost, PBF would
expect to see a greater benefit to profit margins because Bakken
is higher-quality crude for PBF’s system, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  