-- Trade-Worker Funds Can’t Recover Madoff Losses Says Court
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-02-22T16:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/pensions-can-t-recover-losses-from-madoff-scheme-court-says.html
Building-trade worker benefit funds
that invested in feeder funds to Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC won’t be able to recover money from the Ponzi
schemer’s estate, a federal appeals court ruled.  The pension, health-care and benefit funds for bricklayers,
construction workers, electrical workers and others don’t
qualify as “customers” of Madoff under the Securities Investor
Protection Act and are not eligible for recovery, the appeals
court in  Manhattan  said today.  The funds invested in Spectrum Select LP and Spectrum
Select II LP, which in turn invested in hedge funds Rye Select
Broad Market Fund LP and Rye Select Broad Market Prime Fund LP,
according to the ruling. The Rye funds funneled capital to
Madoff’s firm, according to the ruling.  “As investors in the Spectrum funds that invested in the
feeder funds, appellants had no direct financial dealings with
BLMIS, and no account information in BLMIS records identified
them as BLMIS investors,” the appellate judges said in the
order.  The worker funds, including the Bricklayers and Allied
Craftsman Local 2 Annuity Fund, the Central  New York  Laborers
Annuity Fund, and the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers Local Union NO. 43 and Electrical Contractors Pension
Fund, appealed from previous rulings by a  bankruptcy court  and
federal district court.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland initially ruled
against the worker funds in June 2011, siding with Madoff estate
trustee Irving H. Picard’s denial of the claims, according to
the appeals court’s order.  The case is In Re: Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
LLC, 12-410,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  