-- Pentagon to Slow Contractor Payments Ahead of U.S. Spending Cuts
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-02-22T18:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/pentagon-to-slow-contractor-payments-ahead-of-u-s-spending-cuts.html
The U.S. Defense Department began
slowing payments to contractors to boost cash reserves before
automatic spending cuts are set to take effect next week.  The Pentagon yesterday revoked a policy requiring faster
payments, discontinuing the practice for “all prime
contractors,” according to a memo by Richard Ginman, director
of defense procurement and acquisition policy.  The move was to prepare for the scheduled March 1 start of
across-the-board budget cuts known as sequestration, said Larry Allen, president of Allen Federal Business Partners, a
consulting firm in McLean, Virginia.  The military “needs to stretch out its money as long as it
can if they know it’s going to be tight,” Allen said in an e-
mail.  The change will provide a one-time increase of several
billion dollars in the Defense Department’s available cash,
Maureen Schumann, a spokeswoman at the Pentagon, said in an e-
mail.  The automatic reductions would slice about $45 billion from
defense programs during the remaining seven months of the fiscal
year and about $500 billion over nine years. They will take
effect unless lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  can agree on
an alternative.  The Pentagon, in response to a directive from the White
House Office of Management and Budget, last year began requiring
contracting officers to make faster payments and instructed
companies, in turn, to speed the flow of cash to subcontractors.
The policy, which was designed to help small businesses, is “no
longer authorized,” Ginman wrote.  Delayed Payments  Under the policy, vendors were being paid in about 15 days
to 18 days, said Alan Chvotkin, executive vice president of the
Arlington, Virginia-based Professional Services Council, which
represents contractors such as  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  and  CACI International
Inc. (CACI)  Average payment times will probably return to about 28 days
now that the department has canceled the policy, he said in a
phone interview.  “There’s increased expense to contractors from delayed
payments,” Chvotkin said in a phone interview. “For some, it
will stretch their own cash position. They may have to borrow
more in the private market.”  Prompt payments are important for small businesses that
don’t have the finances to support a major government project
for a month or longer, according to Molly Brogan, a spokeswoman
at the National Small Business Association.  “This memo is exactly the problem with sequestration and
Congress’s failure to do anything about it to this point,” she
said in an e-mail.  Some small businesses that have contracts directly with the
government will still be eligible for the faster payments, said
Schumann, the Pentagon spokeswoman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  