-- Pepper, Latham, Wachtell, Sedgwick: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-22T11:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/pepper-latham-wachtell-sedgwick-business-of-law.html
Pepper Hamilton LLP, which last year
acquired former FBI head  Louis Freeh ’s law firm, bolstered its
white-collar practice in  New York  with the hiring of Larry Byrne
and Ruth Harlow from Linklaters LLP.  At Linklaters, Byrne held several leadership roles,
including head of the U.S. litigation practice, co-managing
partner of the New York office and co-head of the global U.S.
practice. Byrne, a former prosecutor in the Southern District of
New York and in the criminal division of the Justice Department,
will also become a managing director at Freeh Group
International Solutions, a risk-management firm founded by Freeh
that merged with Pepper Hamilton.  “I have known Larry for many years and worked closely with
him when he served as a federal prosecutor,” Freeh, who was
recently named chairman of Pepper’s executive committee, said in
a statement. “He and Ruth are outstanding additions to
Pepper.”  Byrne’s clients have included Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.,
which was involved in the largest criminal antitrust matter
prosecuted criminally by the U.S., as well as related civil
class-action litigations, according to his Linklaters profile.
He also advised Royal Ahold NV, the international food provider,
on settlements with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
and the  Justice Department .  Harlow, who was counsel at Linklaters, has worked with
Byrne for almost 10 years, Pepper said. Her practice includes
regulatory investigations and commercial litigation, bankruptcy
court adversary proceedings, antitrust actions, and fraud and
breach of fiduciary duty cases.  Harlow led the legal issues team for Deutsche Bank AG in
its defense against over a dozen Enron Corp.-related civil
suits, according to her Linklaters profile. She also was the
lead counsel for the prevailing plaintiffs in the landmark
Supreme Court case Lawrence v. Texas, which overturned the
state’s law making homosexual sodomy a crime.  “We wish Larry and the team well,” Linklaters said in a
statement.  Pepper Hamilton, which along with Freeh was involved in a
report for  Pennsylvania State University  about the school’s sex-
abuse scandal, earlier this week hired two white-collar lawyers
who represent universities and nonprofits in internal
investigations related to sexual misconduct.  Pepper Hamilton has more than 500 lawyers at its U.S.
offices.  Dykema Gossett Los Angeles Real Estate Head Joins Loeb & Loeb  Loeb & Loeb LLP hired Thomas F. Hanley III as a real estate
partner in the  Los Angeles  office. He was formerly a partner at
Dykema Gossett PLLC, where he led the firm’s Los Angeles real
estate practice group.  “Tom brings a wealth of experience and expertise in the
Los Angeles market that will only strengthen our national
platform as we continue to expand, particularly in the areas of
finance, acquisitions and sales,” Raymond A. Sanseverino,
chairman of Loeb & Loeb’s real estate department, said in a
statement.  Hanley focuses his practice on transactional real estate
law, with an emphasis on acquisitions and dispositions, retail
and office leasing, representation of commercial lenders and
other matters.  Hanley is the fourth lateral partner to join Loeb & Loeb’s
real estate department in the past year, the firm said.  Loeb & Loeb has more than 300 attorneys in seven U.S. and
Asian offices.  Former Dow AgroSciences General Counsel Joins Barnes & Thornburg  William W.  Wales , who spent more than 30 years in the legal
department of Dow Chemical Co. and Dow AgroSciences LLC, has
joined Barnes & Thornburg LLP’s Indianapolis office as a partner
in the litigation and corporate departments.  Wales recently retired from Dow AgroSciences as vice
president, general counsel and secretary, the firm said.  At Barnes & Thornburg, Wales will focus his practice on
complex product liability and commercial litigation matters;
commercial transactions, including mergers and acquisitions; and
compliance issues. He also will work with high-technology growth
companies, the firm said.  “Bill has been on the front lines of significant trials
and a key negotiator on intellectual property matters and
corporate transactions,” Joseph G. Eaton, vice chairman of the
firm’s litigation department and co-chairman of the toxic tort
practice group, said in a statement.  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 600 attorneys and other
legal professionals at 12 U.S. offices.  Health Regulatory Lawyer Joins McDermott in Chicago  McDermott Will & Emery LLP announced that health regulatory
lawyer Clare Connor Ranalli joined the health industry advisory
practice group as a partner in its Chicago office. She was
previously with Holland & Knight LLP.  Ranalli is the eighth new lawyer or professional adviser to
join the practice in the past two months, a result, the firm
said of clients facing implementation of the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act.  Ranalli has experience providing regulatory and
transactional advice, particularly in the area of Certificate of
Need regulatory matters, the firm said. CONs are required in a
number of states whenever health care providers seek to expand
facilities, purchase major technologies, or complete merger and
acquisition activities.  McDermott has more than 1,100 lawyers at offices in the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  News  Legal Uncertainty Worries Southeast Asia Investors, Survey Finds  An unpredictable legal environment in  Southeast Asia  is the
top concern of investors, according to an Economist Corporate
Network survey, highlighting the challenge the region faces as
it seeks to integrate by 2015 in an effort to boost growth and
attract more investments.  Governments change their minds about important legislation
with little warning, according to a report based on a survey of
147 companies including Unilever and General Electric Co. “Even
when laws remain unchanged, court decisions and interpretations
of the laws can be highly arbitrary,” the report said.  While  China  remains the manufacturing capital of the world,
companies including Nissan Motor Co. and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  are
expanding in Southeast Asia, lured by the prospect of a  $2.2
trillion market . Nations including the  Philippines  are stepping
up efforts to regain investor confidence after regulatory
reversals and contract disputes in the past prompted Frankfurt-
based Fraport AG to leave the country.  “The region’s diversity and uncertain legal environment
remain major challenges for many multinationals,” said Clive Cook, a senior consultant at law firm Baker & McKenzie LLP that
commissioned the report. Companies are looking for legal
advisers with expertise across different Association of
Southeast Asian Nations markets, he said in a statement.  Economic expansions in Indonesia, the Philippines,  Thailand 
and  Malaysia  exceeded 6 percent last quarter, compared with 1.5
percent for  South Korea  and 3.4 percent for  Taiwan . Foreign
direct investments to the 10-member Asean rose to $116.54
billion in 2011, almost equal to China’s $123.99 billion,
according to the  United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development .  For more, click here.  Deals  Latham, Wachtell Advise Linn and Berry on $2.42 Billion Sale  Latham & Watkins LLP acted as adviser to  Linn Energy LLC (LINE) ,
which buys older oil and natural gas fields, on its agreement to
purchase  Berry Petroleum Co. (BRY)  for $2.42 billion in stock to
increase its proved reserves by 34 percent.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz acted as Berry’s legal
adviser. Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP acted as a legal
adviser to the conflicts committee of Linn’s board. Locke Lord
LLP acted as legal adviser to the conflicts committee of the
 LinnCo (LNCO)  LLC board.  Latham & Watkins advised Linn and LinnCo in the transaction
with a corporate deal team led from the firm’s Houston office by
partners Michael Dillard and Sean Wheeler. Advice was also
provided on tax matters by Latham Houston partner Tim Fenn and
Los Angeles partner Laurence Stein; on  capital markets  by
Houston partner Divakar Gupta, Washington, partner Alexander Cohen, Chicago partner Roderick Branch and Washington partner
Barton Clark; on environmental matters by Houston partner Joel
Mack; on employee benefits matters by Washington partner David
Della Rocca; on antitrust matters by Washington partner Marc Williamson; on government contracts matters by Washington
partner David Hazelton; and on finance matters by Houston
partner Catherine Ozdogan.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by corporate partners Daniel A. Neff and David K. Lam and includes T. Eiko Stange, tax; and
Adam J. Shapiro, executive compensation and benefits.  The Akin Gump lawyers included Houston partner John
Goodgame, Chris LaFollette and Thomas Weir.  The Locke Lord team for the LinnCo board includes lead Don Glendenning, co-chairman of the firm’s corporate and
transactional department and managing partner of the firm’s
Dallas office, on the corporate side. On the tax side of the
transaction, Dallas partners Chris Allison and Andrew Betaque
were involved.  Berry shareholders will get 1.25 shares of publicly traded
LinnCo, a corporation whose only assets are units of Linn
Energy, according to a joint statement. That values Berry at
$46.24 a share, a 20 percent premium to the Feb. 20 closing
price. LinnCo will sell the Berry assets to Linn Energy in
exchange for additional partnership units.  Berry’s reserves are 75 percent oil, which increases Linn’s
exposure to liquids, which are more profitable than natural gas.
The deal is the biggest oil and gas purchase announced this year
and the largest ever for Linn, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Last year, the company announced four deals, valued
at a total of $2.6 billion.  For more, click here.  Firm News  K&L Gates Posts 2012 Results on Website in Bid for Transparency  K&L Gates LLP posted its comprehensive financial
information on its website, a move that K&L’s chairman described
in an internal e-mail as a bid for transparency and law firm
consultants said is unusual.  Among the disclosures, the firm’s revenue dropped slightly
to a little more than $1.06 billion from the previous year, the
firm had no outstanding bank debt and it ended 2012 with more
than $220 million in cash, according to the  statement  posted
yesterday on the website.  Chairman Peter Kalis, whose Pittsburgh-based firm has more
than 2,000 attorneys, addressed the disclosures in an e-mail to
the firm’s lawyers obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “Although our firm’s financial performance is fully
transparent to our partners, we wish to extend that transparency
to all of our lawyers, including associates, and to include
categories of information that industry publications have
ignored,” Kalis said in the e-mail.  Kalis didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on the internal e-mail. Earlier, when asked by Bloomberg
News about the posting on the website, Kalis referred to the
implosion of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the New York law firm that
once had 1,300 lawyers before seeking bankruptcy in May.  “Our industry and profession were shamed by Dewey,” Kalis
said in an e-mail. “This is our modest attempt to fight back
and lead by example.”  In the firm-wide e-mail, Kalis said that information such
as “debt loads, unfunded retirement obligations,
undercapitalization, illiquidity and the like” are often not
made public even though these “indicia go right to the heart of
institutional stability.”  The firm opened offices in Milan and Seoul last year and
merged with the Australian firm Middletons Lawyers in January,
according to the statement on its website. The firm said its
“annual retirement obligation expense” as a percentage of
revenue is 0.3 percent.  Net income per partner was reported as $899,960 for “fully
participating equity partners” and $636,920 for all partners.
The highest-paid partners make 7.9 times as much as first-year
partners, according to the statement,  For more, click here.  Brown Eassa & McLeod Joins Sedgwick in California Offices  Sedgwick LLP said attorneys from the trial and litigation
defense firm Brown Eassa & McLeod LLP will join the firm on
March 1.  Brown Eassa has experience in product liability, class
action, commercial litigation, mass tort, labor and employment,
and environmental matters. Seven partners and their team of
associates will be based in Sedgwick’s  San Francisco  office, and
one partner and one associate will work out of Sedgwick’s Los
Angeles office.  “When we are considering an opportunity to add a group to
our firm, we look for attorneys who share our firm’s core values
of outstanding client service, integrity and creativity, and who
provide the highest quality legal services,” firm Chairman
Michael Tanenbaum said in a statement. “The attorneys at Brown
Eassa possess all these qualities, and we’re excited to have
them join the Sedgwick family.”  The Brown Eassa trial lawyers joining Sedgwick specialize
in complex mass tort and product liability cases, the firm said.  “Sedgwick provides a great opportunity to join a firm with
a national mass tort and product liability litigation practice
with seasoned trial attorneys located throughout the country,”
Brown Eassa managing partner Eugene Brown said in a statement.
“We already share many clients with Sedgwick attorneys. We will
now be able to streamline the services we provide those shared
clients and offer a larger menu of legal services and geographic
bench strength to all of our clients.”  Brown will be joined in San Francisco by partners Robert
Eassa, Bruce McLeod, Delia Isvoranu, Troy McMahan, Amee Mikacich
and Susan Ogdie, along with their team of associates. In Los
Angeles, partner Philip Cosgrove will be joined by an associate.  Sedgwick provides trial, appellate, litigation management,
counseling, risk management and transactional legal services. It
has more than 370 attorneys in 14 U.S. and European offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 