-- Pharma’s 95% Rally Sparking M&A Fever: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-02-22T17:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/pharma-s-95-rally-sparking-m-a-fever-corporate-brazil.html
The two-year acquisition spree
billionaire  Andre Esteves  has orchestrated at  Brazil Pharma SA (BPHA3) 
is sparking a rally that’s almost doubled its stock price and
set a growth model that other drugstore chains are following.  Brazil Pharma, which is controlled by Esteves’s  Grupo BTG
Pactual (BBTG11) , has soared 95 percent to 15.30 reais since its June
2011 initial public offering as the company boosted its revenue
sixfold through a half-dozen acquisitions. The rally dwarfs the
12 percent gain on the BM&FBovespa Small Cap index over that
period and compares with an 8.3 percent loss in Brazil’s
benchmark Bovespa index.  Esteves is exploiting a 31 percent increase in Brazil’s per
capita income in the seven years through 2011 that is fueling a
surge in demand for health care products in  Latin America ’s
biggest economy. His success is helping prompt international and
local companies, including Sao Paulo-based  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3) , to
seek to gain market share by acquiring smaller rivals, according
to  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  and Sao Paulo-based brokerage Coinvalores.  “Brazil Pharma’s strategy and great performance has
attracted attention to this sector not only from national
companies but also from big players in other countries,” Sandra Peres, an analyst at Coinvalores, said in a phone interview.
“With the profit potential and the fact that the retail market
is still so fragmented into small stores, the consolidation
process presents a lot of opportunities.”  Product Mix  The 4,700 stores operated by 31 Brazilian drugstore chains
had combined revenue of 25.1 billion reais ($12.7 billion) last
year, which was a 16 percent increase from 2011, according to
the industry association Abrafarma.  While drugstores have benefited from increased sales of
prescription medication, revenue growth also is coming from
complementary items that are becoming a more important part of
the product mix, said Ricardo Boiati, an analyst at Bradesco.
Demand for toiletries, cosmetics and perfumes in Brazil more
than doubled from 2006 to 2011, according to data compiled by
London-based research firm Euromonitor International.  “Brand-name drugs are the retailers’ main product and will
continue to be, but the mix is being more diversified with
generic drugs and personal care items,” Boiati said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “Drugstores are becoming more like
 convenience stores , and sales should keep the rhythm of
growth.”  Revenue Increase  Boiati has a buy recommendation for Brazil Pharma, with a
12-month price target of 16.30 reais. On a scale of 1 to 5, with
5 being the most positive, the consensus of analyst ratings for
the company’s shares is 4.4, compared with an average of 3.5 for
the Bovespa’s members, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil Pharma increased its revenue 520 percent in the 12
months through the third quarter of 2012, more than any other
drugstore chain in the world, to 744 million reais, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Raia Drogasil SA, Brazil’s biggest
drug retailer by market value, posted a 36 percent increase in
sales during the same period to 1.4 billion reais.  There were 10 mergers among Brazilian drugstores and
pharmacy services providers in 2011 and 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That was the most in any two-year period
on record and compares with 195 worldwide.  Drogasil SA’s 2.1 billion-real takeover of Raia SA was the
biggest transaction during the period. Brazil Pharma’s 471.6
million-real purchase of Grupo Big Ben was the second largest.  CVS-Onofre  The pace of consolidation is continuing this year as  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the largest prescription drug provider in the
U.S., said Feb. 6 it bought Brazilian chain Onofre in its first
purchase abroad. It didn’t disclose the financial terms of the
deal.  Drugmaker Ache is in talks to sell a stake, said two people
familiar with the talks who asked not to be identified because
they are private. Hypermarcas, the consumer products company
that gets 53 percent of its revenue from prescription and over-
the-counter drugs, is in discussions to buy the stake with BTG
Pactual, said one of the people. Distributor  Profarma
Distribuidora de Produtos Farmaceuticos SA  said Feb. 14 that
it’s raising cash for acquisitions.  Officials at Hypermarcas and BTG declined to comment. Ache
said in an e-mailed response to questions that the company isn’t
up for sale. It provided no further comment.  ‘Very Complicated’  As the the industry consolidates, the main risk to the
companies that are expanding through acquisitions is the
fragmented system of laws and regulations that apply to
drugstores and pharmacy services providers throughout Brazil,
said Geraldo Monteiro, executive director of wholesale
distributors association Abradilan.  “Aside from federal laws, each state has its own standards
and cities create their own rules as well,” Monteiro said in a
phone interview. “For instance, drug retailers in  Sao Paulo  can
sell cereal bars, but no kind of food product is allowed in
drugstores in the state of Goias. It’s very complicated for a
chain that has operations spread into several parts of Brazil to
manage all the details.”  Brazil Pharma’s ability to assimilate the smaller companies
it has purchased has made it a standout in the industry,
according to Peres at Coinvalores. “It’s one of the things
competitors are trying to replicate,” she said.  The pharmacy chain’s management has sought to standardize
the appearance of the stores while respecting the differences in
culture and regulations in different regions, according to
Otavio Lyra, Brazil Pharma’s investors relations manager.  “The recent interest of other companies in our market is
just the last development in the consolidation trend,” Lyra
said. “It’s only natural, considering that sales have been
growing at a 10 percent rate annually for more than a decade in
 Brazil . Not even the economic crisis affected the industry’s
performance, because remedies will always be a basic need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  