-- Philippine Peso Forwards Rise Most in Month on Upgrade Optimism
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-02-22T02:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/philippine-peso-forwards-rise-most-in-month-on-upgrade-optimism.html
Philippine peso one-month forwards
rallied the most this month, paring a weekly drop, on optimism
an improving balance of payments boosts the odds of the nation
winning its first investment-grade  credit rating .  The peso,  Asia ’s best-performing currency of the past year,
is set to defy policy makers’ efforts to curb its gains as the
advance is cooling inflation and the nation will exit junk
rating, according to Schroder Investment Management Ltd. and
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. The country had a balance of payments
surplus of $2 billion in January, compared with $640 million the
month before, the central bank reported Feb. 19.  “We’re still quite positive on the peso because the
underlying driver hasn’t really changed at all,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , an economist in Singapore at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. “You have the fundamentals and the expectation of an
upgrade. The balance of payments is supportive of that thesis.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.3 percent to
40.73 per dollar as of 10:30 a.m. in  Manila , reducing this
week’s decline to 0.3 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The contracts traded at a 0.03 percent premium to the spot rate,
which fell 0.1 percent today and 0.4 percent for the week,
according to prices from from Tullett Prebon Plc.  The peso’s drop this week was due to “the air of
uncertainty on whether macroprudential measures may be imposed
to moderate flows,” said Tanuwidjaja.  Central Bank  The central bank will maintain a strategic presence in the
foreign-exchange market and adopt prudential measures to ensure
the  exchange rate  is aligned with fundamentals, Governor Amando
Tetangco said in a speech in Manila on Feb. 15.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas restricted the use of currency
forwards in December to curb speculation and the cut the
 interest rate  on its special-deposit accounts in January. The
peso advanced 4.8 percent against the dollar in the past year.  One-month implied volatility in the peso, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
dropped 30 basis points, or 0.30 percentage point, to 3.9
percent this week and is unchanged today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 6.125 percent bonds due October 2037 fell
one basis point this week to 4.88 percent, according to prices
from Tradition Financial Services. The rate rose one basis point
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  