-- Pistorius on Bail as He Prepares to Fight Murder Charge
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-02-23T16:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/pistorius-on-bail-as-he-prepares-to-fight-murder-charge.html
Oscar Pistorius, the South African
double-amputee track star, was released on bail of 1 million
rand ($113,000) before his trial for the murder of girlfriend
Reeva Steenkamp.  Pistorius, 26, was allowed yesterday to leave the Brooklyn
police station in Pretoria where he’d been held since the Feb.
14 shooting. Magistrate Desmond Nair told the athlete to pay
100,000 rand in cash and surrender his passports and firearms.
Pistorius must report to the police station every Monday and
Friday. His next court appearance is June 4.  “We are acutely aware of the fact that this is only the
beginning of a long road to prove that, as we know, Oscar never
intended to harm Reeva, let alone cause her death,” Arnold
Pistorius, the athlete’s uncle, said in a statement e-mailed
today. “We realise that the law must run its course, and we
would not have it any other way.”  During the four-day hearing, the prosecution disputed the
athlete’s evidence that he thought Steenkamp, 29, was a burglar
when he shot her in a locked bathroom at his Pretoria home.
Prosecutor Gerrie Nel said the couple had been arguing before
the shooting and the alleged murder was premeditated, a charge
that carries a maximum sentence of life in prison if Pistorius
is convicted.  Granted Bail  Pistorius’s family yelled out “yes” in unison when Nair
granted bail after two hours of summarizing the arguments made
at the hearing. The athlete, known as “ Blade Runner ” because
of his prosthetic running blades, showed little emotion before
being removed from the court yesterday. His brother, Carl, led
about 25 family members in prayer in a circle in the front row
of the courtroom gallery after bail was granted.  Nair said he didn’t think Pistorius is a flight risk and
the state didn’t provide enough proof in arguing he had a
propensity to violence and would attempt to influence witnesses.  “I come to the conclusion the accused has made a case to
be released on bail,” he said.  The judge said Hilton Botha, the lead police investigator
in the case, made a series of errors, including possibly
contaminating the crime scene, not checking for other mobile
phones owned by Pistorius and misidentifying substances found at
his home as testosterone.  Still, this “doesn’t mean the state’s case isn’t strong,”
Nair said.  Top Detective  Botha was removed from the case two days ago after
prosecutors said they’ve reinstated attempted-murder charges
against him for an incident in 2011 when he allegedly shot at a
minibus taxi. The police appointed their top detective, Vinesh
Moonoo, to replace Botha on the Pistorius case.  Nair also said he had “difficulties” with some of the
defense’s account. He said he found it hard to understand why
Pistorius didn’t try to find out where his girlfriend was when
he believed there was an intruder in the house, and why he
didn’t call out to the person behind the closed bathroom door
before shooting.  Oscar Pistorius must “suffer” if he’s not telling the
truth about how Reeva died, Barry Steenkamp, her father, said in
an interview published today in the Johannesburg-based newspaper
Beeld.  “Pistorius will have to live with his conscience if he
allows his legal team to lie on his behalf,” he said in the
interview.  Gold Medals  The state is still “confident” of its case and the
granting of bail doesn’t mean an acquittal, Medupe Simasiku,
spokesman for the National Prosecuting Authority, told reporters
at the court yesterday.  Pistorius, who was born without fibulas and had both legs
amputated below the knee at 11 months old, won six Paralympic
gold medals. He became the first amputee runner to compete at an
Olympic Games in London last year and was included on Time
magazine’s list of the world’s 100 most-influential people.  Since the shooting, sponsors such as  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s
largest sporting-goods company,  Luxottica Group SpA (LUX) ’s Oakley and
Clarins SA’s Thierry Mugler perfume brand have distanced
themselves from Pistorius.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  