-- Polyus Gold Advances as Prokhorov Sells Stake: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-02-22T16:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/polyus-gold-advances-as-prokhorov-sells-stake-moscow-mover.html
Polyus Gold International Ltd (PGIL) 
climbed after Brooklyn Nets owner  Mikhail Prokhorov  sold 37.8
percent in the gold producer to two fellow Russian billionaires
for $3.62 billion.  Polyus gained as much as 5 percent and closed 0.3 percent
higher at 219.75 pence in London trading. The company’s Moscow
traded unit advanced 3.4 percent.  The U.K. Takeover Panel approved Zelimkhan Mutsoev, a
shareholder in potash producer OAO Uralkali, and Gavriil Yushvaev, a former owner of dairy and juice maker Wimm-Bill-
Dann, as buyers of the stake, according to a statement today
from Prokhorov investment vehicle Onexim Group.  The two businessmen were proposed for the deal by Nafta
Moskva, the investment firm controlled by billionaire Suleiman Kerimov who holds 40 percent of Polyus, three people with
knowledge of the situation said in January, declining to be
identified as the matter was private.  “Although the deal was expected, Prokhorov’s exit is
positive as now Kerimov will most likely define Polyus’ strategy
and operations will be more effective,” Valentina Bogomolova,
an analyst at Uralsib Capital, said by phone from Moscow.  Diversify Interests  Prokhorov, a Russian presidential candidate in last year’s
election won by Vladimir Putin, is switching out of commodities
as he seeks to diversify his business interests. Onexim may sell
its Quadra Power Generation utility to an OAO Gazprom unit, the
Russian news agency Interfax said Feb. 21, citing people
familiar with the situation.  Kerimov paid $1.3 billion for 37 percent of Polyus in a
2009 deal with billionaire Vladimir Potanin, the Vedomosti
newspaper said at the time.  Mutsoev’s Lizarazu Ltd. bought 18.5 percent of Polyus Gold
for $1.77 billion and Yushvaev’s Receza Ltd. bought 19.3 percent
for $1.85 billion, according to Onexim’s statement. The gold
producer has risen 15 percent since Jan. 14, after the three
people said Prokhorov reached an agreement with investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  