-- Puerto Rico Set to Boost Worst-Funded Pension Sans Debt
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-02-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/puerto-rico-set-to-boost-worst-funded-pension-sans-debt.html
Puerto Rican lawmakers must beef up
the government’s underfunded pension, which has less than 7
percent of needed assets, and may get their chance by next week,
according to a legislative leader.  A bill to raise contributions and cut some payments may be
submitted by Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 41, before the
end of next week, said Representative Rafael Hernandez, the
Treasury Committee chairman in  House of Representatives . Another
bill would tap the local gaming industry for funds, he said,
while there are no plans to use debt to put cash in the pension.  To show the three U.S. credit-rating companies “that we
are serious about fixing the problem and we’re going to do
something real, not just cosmetic,” Garcia Padilla must act
before month’s end, Hernandez said yesterday. He said the
measures will boost funding for the $1.7 billion pension system
without selling bonds, a tactic used in the past.  “There is no time to lose and the governor is acutely
aware,” Javier Ferrer, president of the Government Development
Bank for Puerto Rico, the island’s fiscal agent, said by
telephone from  San Juan . He wouldn’t say when the governor will
submit his plan, only that it would be unveiled “shortly.”  Puerto Rico’s retirement system had 6.8 percent of the
assets needed to cover $25.5 billion in projected obligations to
current and future retirees, according to the most recent
actuarial report. By comparison,  Illinois  had about 43 percent
of needed assets, the lowest funding ratio among states, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. U.S. public pensions have a
collective deficit estimated to be as much as $3.6 trillion.  Changes Needed  The commonwealth must make changes in its pension system
before it can borrow more money, Ferrer said. Jesus Manuel
Ortiz, a spokesman for Garcia Padilla, referred inquiries about
the pension, which covers more than 200,000 workers and
retirees, to Ferrer, an appointee of the governor.  Puerto Rico  had almost $3 billion of pension-obligation
bonds and $9.8 billion of general-obligation debt as of March
31, 2012, according to the commonwealth. Hernandez and Ferrer
both said there are no plans to sell more pension debt.  “Absolutely not,” Ferrer said when asked about such a
sale. “We won’t be issuing POBs as a solution to the crisis.”  The commonwealth needs to reduce its obligations rather
than taking on more debt, said Hernandez, a member of the
governor’s Popular Democratic Party. Elected last year, Garcia
Padilla took office Jan. 2.  Not Borrowing  “We owe so much money so the solution can’t be borrowing
more,” Hernandez said. “It can’t be that.”  Fitch Ratings  may cut Puerto Rico’s BBB+ rating, the third-
lowest investment grade, according to a report yesterday from
the credit-scoring company. The commonwealth’s deficit for the
fiscal year ending in June “appears to be well above the $1.1
billion originally forecast,” Karen Krop, a Fitch analyst, said
in the report.  Fitch put Puerto Rico’s debt on watch for a possible
downgrade and may act early next month, following meetings with
commonwealth officials, Krop said in the report.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Puerto Rico Baa3, its
lowest investment grade, and gives the island a negative
outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  has the commonwealth one level higher
at BBB, also with a negative outlook.  Widening Spread  A Puerto Rico general-obligation bond maturing in July 2041
traded Feb. 20 with an average yield of 5.09 percent, 2.1
percentage points higher than a benchmark index, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That yield difference was 2 percentage points
when the bonds first priced March 7, 2012.  The pension legislation will include two bills that would
produce a combined $300 million of savings and additional
revenue each year, Hernandez said.  One measure would boost employee contributions to the
system to about 10 percent and possibly increase the  retirement
age  or the length of service needed to qualify for retirement,
he said. Another change would reduce summer and holiday bonuses
for lower-income retirees and eliminate them for those with
higher incomes, he said.  Another measure would focus on raising new revenue from the
commonwealth’s gaming industry. There are  slot machines  in
restaurants and bars that aren’t regulated as casino slots are,
Hernandez said.  “We’re looking at the whole gambling system of the island,
the casinos, the lottery,” he said. Hernandez also cited “an
underground market” of slot machines that don’t produce revenue
for the commonwealth.  Ferrer declined to confirm the $300 million of potential
savings and added contributions, changes in retirement rules and
payments or the projected additional revenue from gaming.  “This is a key item that needs to be solved to address
Puerto Rico’s fiscal situation,” Ferrer said. “There are no
easy solutions given the condition of the retirement system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 