-- Ralls Allowed to Seek Explanation for Wind Farm Decision
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/ralls-allowed-to-proceed-with-part-of-windfarm-case-against-u-s-.html
Ralls Corp. can continue arguing
that President  Barack Obama  should explain his order for it to
sell a wind farm project in  Oregon  on national security grounds
even though it can’t challenge his authority to require a sale,
a federal judge decided.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in Washington ruled
yesterday that “a due process claim that raises purely legal
questions about the process” can proceed.  Jackson threw out the bulk of Ralls’s lawsuit against the
Obama administration, which focused on whether the president
exceeded his power by ordering the company, an affiliate of
 China ’s Sany Group Co., to sell the wind farm assets.  “The statute expressly authorizes the president to do what
he deems necessary to accomplish or implement the prohibition --
not merely to issue it,” Jackson wrote.  Jackson said that even though Ralls is entitled to continue
making its case for an explanation for the forced sale, she may
decide that “the opportunities provided to the plaintiff here
comported with due process, or the plaintiff is not entitled to
the reasons.”  Presidential Order  Tim Xia, a spokesman for Ralls, said the ruling kept alive
“Ralls’ primary claim that the presidential order violated
constitutional due process. We look forward to litigating this
matter on the merits and vindicating the rule of law.”  The U.S. Treasury Department coordinates the multi-agency
 Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States , or CFIUS,
that initially barred the wind farm project.  “We are reviewing the decision,” Holly Shulman, a
Treasury spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We continue to
believe the lawsuit has no merit, and we will continue to defend
the case vigorously.”  Obama’s Sept. 28 order requiring Ralls to divest the wind
farm assets was the first time in 22 years a president has
blocked a transaction on national security grounds.  Ralls was seeking to place Sany-made wind turbines at the
Oregon installations after purchasing land and other rights in
early 2012. The assets include four locations, three of which
are near, and one is within, restricted Navy airspace, according
to the Treasury Department.  The case is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign Investment
in the U.S., 1:12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  