-- Rand Gains for Second Day as Commodity Prices Rally on Stimulus
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-02-22T14:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/rand-gains-for-second-day-as-commodity-prices-rally-on-stimulus.html
The rand gained for a second day,
paring its weekly decline, as commodity prices rallied after
concern waned the U.S. Federal Reserve may curtail stimulus
measures that have boosted demand for high-yielding assets.  South Africa’s currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 8.8618
per dollar by 3:55 a.m. in Johannesburg, cutting its loss this
week to less than 0.1 percent. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent
bonds due December 2026 slid two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, 7.23 percent. The yield dropped nine basis
points this week.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  minimized concerns that the
central bank’s easy monetary policy has spawned economically
risky asset bubbles. His comments were published after several
U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers said the central bank should
be ready to vary the pace of its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases, according to minutes of their meeting released
yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of raw materials
advanced.  “The effects of the Fed minutes that appeared to spook
investors yesterday are reversing to some extent today with all
the commodity currencies making back some ground,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM Analytics, said
in e-mailed comments. “The implication for the rand is that
there has been an improvement in sentiment.”  The GSCI gauge gained as much as 0.7 percent before trading
0.3 percent higher. Metals and other mining commodities
accounted for 53 percent of  South Africa ’s exports in 2012,
according to government data.  Asset Bubbles  Bernanke brushed off the risks of asset bubbles in response
to a presentation on the subject from a group of investors and
dealers this month, according to three people with knowledge of
the discussions. Among the concerns raised, according to one
person, were rising farmland prices and the growth of mortgage
real estate investment trusts. Falling yields on speculative-
grade bonds also were mentioned as a potential concern, two
people said.  The rand stayed stronger after German business confidence
increased to a 10-month high in February, adding to signs that
 Europe ’s largest economy is gathering strength. The euro area is
South Africa’s biggest trading partner, buying about 24 percent
of the nation’s exports, according to government data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  