-- Record Sugar Output in India’s Top Grower Seen Curbing Imports
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-22T05:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/record-sugar-output-in-india-s-top-grower-seen-curbing-imports.html
Sugar output in  India ’s biggest
producer may surge to a record next year even as a drought
threatens planting in some areas, helping the country avert
large imports, a producers’ group said.  Production in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh may climb
at least 13 percent to 9 million metric tons in the year
beginning Oct. 1, from an estimated 8 million tons this season,
said C.B Patodia, president of the Uttar Pradesh Sugar Mills
Association. Farmers are set to boost planting by about 12
percent because of record cane prices, he said.  A bigger  harvest  in Uttar Pradesh may make up for a decline
in output from Maharashtra and Karnataka states, where water
shortages have cut cane planting. While India’s production next
year may drop from 24.3 million tons this year, a bigger
inventory will help India meet demand without imports, Patodia
said. Futures have slumped to the lowest in 2 1/2 years in New
York on speculation of a global surplus for a third year.  “Output will not be lower than demand,” Patodia said in
an interview in New Delhi. “What is the need to import when we
will have an opening balance of 8 million tons to 8.5 million
tons next season?”  Demand is estimated at 22.5 million tons this year,
according to  Indian Sugar Mills Association . Exports have come
to a halt after the slump in global prices and a rally in local
rates to a 20-month high in August. Refiners have contracted to
 import  about 919,000 tons of raw sugar since Oct. 1, according
to the association known as ISMA.  Import Parity  “Millers and traders will be happy to import if they get
sugar cheaper outside,” said Subhranil Dey, senior research
analyst at New Delhi-based SMC Comtrade Ltd. “Export and import
will depend on price parity and also the policy decision of the
government.”  Raw sugar for May delivery on ICE Futures U.S. in New York
fell 1.3 percent to 17.90 cents a pound yesterday. Futures fell
to 17.67 cents on Feb. 15, the lowest since August 2010.  Farmers in central and eastern regions of Uttar Pradesh may
increase the area under the crop by as much as 25 percent after
cane prices were increased this year, Patodia said. The state
government raised the cane price 17 percent to 280 rupees
($5.13) per 100 kilograms for the 2012-2013 season. Mills in
India must pay at least the government-set price. The area
totaled 2.43 million hectares (6 million acres) in 2012-2013,
according to ISMA.  “Farmers are shifting from rice to sugar cane as the
government has provided subsidy on farm inputs such as seeds,
harvesters,” Avdhesh Mishra, president of the Cane Committees’
Association, said by phone from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh.
Mishra, who’s been growing cane for the last 25 years, said he
plans to increase planting from 6 hectares to 7.5 hectares.  “The only problem is that we are not getting sufficient
quantity of seeds which will improve yield and recovery,”
Mishra said. 