-- Rehn Says Cyprus Aid Should Safeguard Financial Stability
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-02-22T15:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/rehn-says-cyprus-aid-should-safeguard-financial-stability.html
The European Union needs to
safeguard financial stability as it designs a rescue package for
Cyprus and its banks, European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said.  “The European Commission is not in favor of haircuts,”
Rehn said in an interview today in Brussels, referring to
imposing losses on creditors. “We are in favor of a solution
that takes into account the concerns of financial stability.”  Help for Cyprus also will need to reduce the nation’s debt
burden to sustainable levels, Rehn said. Talks with European
authorities, which have been ongoing for nine months, may wrap
up during March, he said.  Cyprus has been stuck in bailout negotiations since it
became the fifth euro nation to seek aid in June. The
Mediterranean island, which is in the process of electing a new
president, needs a bailout of as much as 17.5 billion euros ($23
billion), 10 billion euros of which would be for its banks,
Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly indicated in November.  Euro-area finance ministers have kept all options open,
including  imposing losses on depositors in the Cypriot banks.
Rehn declined to comment on specifics. “I don’t want to go into
the discussion of the likely content of the package on Cyprus,”
he said.  Any lifeline to Cypriot banks probably will need to pass
through the government, as the euro area is still weighing how
and whether the European Stability Mechanism can lend directly
to banks. Such aid also will only be possible once the  European
Central Bank  assumes its new role as supervisor for banks in the
17-nation euro zone and other willing nations.  Bank Plan  Rehn said the EU will consider the lessons learned from the
U.S. financial crisis as it moves ahead with the further plans
to create an agency to shut down or restructure failing banks.
He said it was too soon to say whether the EU will create a
central fund or rely on national resources.  “This is a work in progress, and I’m sure that we will
find a way to ensure that we have a credible backstop once the
European Resolution Authority will be set up,” Rehn said.
“There are different ways and means of achieving that.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and former
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  have both offered input
as the EU studies how the U.S. handles failing banks, Rehn said.
He said the EU will need to adapt financial repair methods to
its situation, while also absorbing useful advice.  “If you face a financial crisis and you face loss of
confidence then you’d better have a big bazooka, in order to
show that you are ready to do whatever it takes,” Rehn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  