-- Republicans Join Democrats to Back Ending Donor Anonymity
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-02-22T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/republicans-join-democrats-to-back-ending-donor-anonymity.html
As spending by outside groups
financed by anonymous donors has escalated in election
campaigns, some Republican lawmakers are rethinking opposition
to legislation requiring organizations that run political
advertisements to identify who’s paying for them.  “I saw really for the first time how funding directed in a
very anonymous way can so significantly influence an election,”
said Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, re-elected in 2010 as a
write-in after losing the Republican primary to a Tea Party-
backed opponent.  Murkowski and Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, are
drafting legislation to require disclosure of political donors.
In the House, Republican Representative Walter Jones of North
Carolina said he is talking with colleagues about a similar
effort. Murkowski and Jones voted to thwart previous disclosure
legislation.  Their new efforts follow a 2012 election in which the
spending edge enjoyed by outside groups backing Republicans
failed to win the party the White House or control of the
Senate, and as Democratic-leaning secret-money groups spent
millions themselves on attack ads.  “While there is a fundamental constitutional freedom of
speech to write that check, there is a discomfort without any
transparency,” Murkowski said.  The congressional discussions are taking place at the same
time the Securities and Exchange Commission is considering
whether to require publicly traded companies to disclose their
contributions to outside political groups.  Court Case  The greater role played by such groups in U.S. politics
follows the  Supreme Court ’s January 2010 decision in the
Citizens United case that relaxed limits on political
contributions by corporations and unions. The ruling also
sparked an explosion of political ads financed by nonprofit
groups that aren’t legally required to reveal their donors.  Jones called transparency crucial to improving public
opinion of Congress. A Jan. 30-Feb. 4 poll by Hamden,
Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University  showed 72 percent of
Americans disapproving of the job performance by Republicans in
Congress -- a figure that included 51 percent who are members of
the party.  Jones said “one of the most serious problems” causing
such negative views is “a perception of special-interest
influence on policy decisions.”  Republicans have been reticent to call for disclosure by
nonprofits, which include the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Not one
Senate Republican was willing to support bringing the bill up
for debate in 2010 and again in 2012.  Spending Totals  Groups not disclosing donors spent at least $314 million in
the 2012 campaign, up from $126 million in 2010, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks campaign spending.  The groups include Crossroads GPS, started with the help of
Republican strategist  Karl Rove ; Americans for Prosperity,
financed in part by billionaire energy executives Charles and
 David Koch ; and Priorities USA, co-founded by  Bill Burton , a
veteran of President  Barack Obama ’s White House.  While Republican-leaning organizations spent more than 80
percent of the money outside groups funneled into the 2012
campaign, Democrats are trying to catch up, offering another
reason for working out a bipartisan bill, said  Craig Holman , who
lobbies on campaign-finance issues for  Public Citizen . Obama
recently converted his campaign committee to a nonprofit group
that can raise unlimited donations from anonymous donors, though
the president has promised to identify its contributors.  ‘Dark Money’  “Republicans can see already that the Democrats are
quickly learning how to emulate this whole dark-money scandal,”
said Holman, whose Washington-based advocacy group backs
increased disclosure. “It’s a game that everyone’s learning how
to play. It’s going to be very ugly if we don’t rein it in.”  Lawmakers are increasingly concerned that they will face a
barrage of negative ads shortly before an election from groups
whose identities and positions are unknown, said  Meredith McGehee , policy director for the Campaign Legal Center, a
Washington-based group that backs greater disclosure.  “What happens now is many incumbents look at this and say,
‘I could be cruising along and come October, a group I don’t
know about could spend millions of dollars against me,’”
McGehee said.  With all 55 senators in the chamber’s Democratic caucus
likely to support disclosure legislation, proponents would need
five Republicans to overcome an anticipated filibuster by
Republican Senate Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , a longtime
opponent of regulating political giving.  Punishment Concern  McConnell, in a July 2012  opinion piece  in  USA Today , said
the effort for a disclosure bill was “an attempt to identify
and punish political enemies, or at the very least, intimidate
others from participating in the process.”  Anonymity “is an important part of our ability to take
unpopular causes,” said former FEC Chairman Bradley Smith,
chairman of the Alexandria, Virginia-based Center for
Competitive Politics, which opposes campaign spending limits.  “This is a hard-won civil right,” he said, expressing
concern that contributors could face threats or harm if their
names were publicly disclosed.  Opponents of disclosure also say that spending by secret-
money groups accounted for less than 5 percent of the  $7 billion 
that Federal Election Commission Chairwoman Ellen Weintraub
estimated was spent on the 2012 elections.  No Exemptions  To attract Republicans to her push for disclosure,
Murkowski said the legislation she and Wyden are crafting would
affect all groups. The 2010 bill she opposed exempted some
organizations from its requirements -- including the  National
Rifle Association  -- and didn’t cover some spending by unions.  “I do believe it is possible to gain that bipartisan
support as long as it is viewed as fair,” Murkowski said.  Democratic Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse  of Rhode Island,
chief sponsor of disclosure legislation in the last Congress,
also wants a bill that can attract Republican support, according
to his spokesman, Seth Larson.  Representative Chris  Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat who
has introduced a disclosure bill, said Senate passage of
legislation could pressure the House to do likewise.  “We need the dam to break on this,” Van Hollen said.
“That will probably start in the Senate.”  Obama, silent on the issue in this year’s  State of the
Union  speech, would sign a bill requiring groups running
political ads to identify their contributors, said  Eric Schultz ,
a White House spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 