-- Risk of Military Strike Wanes as Iran Talks Resume
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-02-22T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/risk-of-military-strike-wanes-as-iran-talks-resume.html
     Feb. 22 (Bloomberg) - There’s scant hope for a breakthrough
next week when negotiators from the U.S. and five other nations
meet Iranians for long-awaited talks over the Islamic Republic’s
nuclear ambitions, according to current and former Western and
Iranian officials.  While a sanctions campaign by the U.S. and European Union
has hurt the Persian Gulf state’s economy and reduced its oil
revenues, the penalties have yet to persuade Iran to bow to
international demands to curtail its atomic program.  The sanctions continue to bite, yet the tension that hung
over  Iran’s nuclear program  last year -- when  Israel ’s leaders
raised the threat of a military strike and pressed the U.S. to
do the same -- has dissipated. More than a dozen Western
diplomats and analysts said in interviews that the focus now is
on seeking confidence-building gestures to make possible future
step-by-step agreements.  “I am not optimistic” about the outlook for a deal  “but
I am hopeful that, at a bare minimum, they will keep them going
and they will set a date and place for the next meeting,”
Thomas Pickering, a former undersecretary of state for political
affairs and former U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations , said
in an interview yesterday.  Pickering echoed the sentiments of other former and current
U.S. and European officials who said the fundamental obstacle is
deep-seated mutual distrust. Talks between Iran and its
negotiating partners -- the U.S.,  France , Britain,  Germany ,
China and  Russia  -- resume Feb. 26 in Almaty,  Kazakhstan , after
an eight-month lapse.  ‘Serious Doubts’  “On our side, we have very serious doubts about their
disinterest in nuclear weapons; on their side, they have very
serious doubts about our disinterest in regime change,” said
Pickering, who has been involved in Iran policy for decades.  Iran insists its nuclear program is for civilian energy and
medical research. The U.S., the EU, and other members of the
United Nations Security Council suspect Iran has a covert atomic
weapons program.  The U.S. and the European Union are engaged in a dual-track
approach to Iran -- pursuing nuclear talks while pressing
sanctions to try to force Iran to make a deal. A U.S. proposal
for a one-on-one meeting with Iran on the sidelines of the
Almaty talks remains on the table, according to two U.S.
officials who asked not to be named in discussing the offer.  “Sanctions, while they have had powerful effects on the
Iranian economy, have not apparently affected the regime’s
nuclear calculus,” said Michael Singh, a former senior director
for Mideast and Iran policy at the White House under then-
President  George W. Bush .  ‘Status Quo’  So far, “the regime prefers the status quo,” and Iranian
leaders are “risk-averse at the moment” because of their own
presidential election scheduled for June, said Singh, managing
director of the  Washington  Institute for Near East Policy.  At the same time, some of last year’s anxiety about a
possible military strike on Iran’s nuclear facilities has abated
because Iran has been careful not to cross red lines set by
Israel. Iran has converted some of its medium-enriched uranium
into fuel plates for its medical reactor, making it harder to
convert that material into bomb-grade fuel.  Even so, Iran is expanding its nuclear program with the
installation of more advanced centrifuges, which will multiply
its enrichment capability, the UN’s International Atomic Energy
Agency reported yesterday.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said after the
IAEA report that Iran is “closer than ever to attaining
enriched material for a nuclear weapon” and is advancing toward
Israel’s “red line,” according to a text message from his
office.  Regime Change  One weakness of the dual-track policy under President
 Barack Obama , critics say, is that with every new sanction the
U.S. heralds, Iran suspects the U.S. is not seeking not a deal,
but rather is trying to bring down the Iranian regime.  The only way to break the impasse “is to be serious about
diplomacy,” which is “difficult, time-consuming, and could
take years,” said  Vali Nasr , dean of the Johns Hopkins
University’s School of Advanced International Studies in
Washington and a former senior adviser at the State Department
under then-Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  The U.S. needs to negotiate “in a concrete way” toward
eventually lifting  oil  sanctions and permitting Iran to conduct
low-level, 5 percent enrichment solely for  power plants , under
appropriate safeguards, Nasr, who’s also a Bloomberg View
columnist, said in an interview. “If you’re really serious,
everyone knows what this deal looks like.”  Sweetened Offer  From the international community’s point of view, Iran has
been unwilling to make meaningful concessions. From Iran’s view,
the U.S. and its allies want to dictate terms and refuse to
recognize what Iran calls its legal right to conduct  uranium
enrichment  for a civilian nuclear program.  Even a slightly sweetened offer from the U.S. and its
allies may have little chance. Iranian officials have said they
don’t see easing peripheral sanctions, such as those on gold and
civilian aircraft parts, as a fair trade for agreeing to give up
enrichment of uranium at 20 percent levels. While Iran says it’s
making medium-enriched uranium for medical research, that
stockpile may be more easily converted into weapons-grade fuel
than 5 percent uranium used in power reactors.  “There remains a mismatch between what the two sides are
demanding and what they are willing to put on the table,” said
 Trita Parsi , author of “A Single Roll of the Dice: Obama’s
Diplomacy With Iran” and head of the National Iranian American
Council. Sanctions have had the opposite of their intended
effect and caused Iran to harden its position rather than
concede, he said.  ‘Basic Rights’  Iran’s ambassador to the UN,  Mohammad Khazaee , criticized
the dual-track policy as “contradictory” and said sanctions
undermine rather than encourage diplomacy.  “For some in the U.S., pressure has become an end in
itself,” he said in a speech in  New York  Feb. 20. “As long as
the U.S. leaders choose to base their policy towards Iran on ‘my
way or the highway,’ they should rest assured that Iran would
not compromise on its basic rights under pressure or threat.”  Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  complained in
a Feb. 16 speech that world powers only want the Islamic
Republic to bend to their will. “What’s the point of such
negotiations?” he said. “This won’t lead anywhere.”  Sanctions proponents, such as  Mark Dubowitz , the executive
director of the Washington-based Foundation for Defense of
Democracies, say that even more pressure is needed.  It’s not surprising Iran is in no mood for compromise,
because the country is “closing in on an undetectable nuclear
breakout” point at which it could produce enough weapons-grade 
fuel before being detected by UN inspectors or Western 
intelligence services, Dubowitz said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  