-- Roche, ImmunoGen Win Approval for Breast-Cancer Therapy
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-02-22T21:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/roche-immunogen-win-approval-for-breast-cancer-therapy.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and  ImmunoGen Inc. (IMGN) 
won U.S. approval for a breast cancer therapy that’s designed to
narrowly target the disease.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the treatment for
people with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer, the agency
said in a  statement  today. The therapy, previously named T-DM1,
will be sold as Kadcyla. It combines Roche’s anti-cancer drug
Herceptin with Waltham, Massachusetts-based ImmunoGen’s
technology that helps the medication carry chemotherapy directly
into malignant cells while bypassing healthy ones.  ImmunoGen said it will receive a $10.5 million payment for
U.S. approval. The medicine is supposed to be more effective
with fewer side effects than other therapies. It has the
potential to be “one of the biggest biotech drugs,” generating
worldwide sales of more than $5 billion, Simos Simeonidis, an
analyst with Cowen and Co. in  New York , wrote in a Jan. 25 note
to clients.  “It’s in a way a super-Herceptin,” Sandra Horning, the
head of global oncology at Basel, Switzerland-based Roche, said
in a phone interview. “We see great potential for this molecule
starting in the metastatic setting but with the potential to
move into early  breast cancer  as well.”  ImmunoGen rose 1.9 percent to $14.57 at the close of New
York trading. time. The shares increased 11 percent in the past
12 months.  Herceptin First  Patients much first attempt treatment with Roche’s
Herceptin before taking Kadcyla, the FDA said. Kadcyla will cost
$9,800 a month with an estimated cost of $94,000 for a course of
the treatment based on patients taking it for 9.6 months,
according to a statement from Genentech Inc., the unit of Roche
that developed the drug.  Kadcyla will be available to people in the U.S. within two
weeks, South San Francisco, California-based Genentech said.  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of tumor medicines, is
also testing T-DM1 as a first-line treatment for women with
metastatic, or spreading, breast cancer. Herceptin  generated 
almost $6.3 billion in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ImmunoGen Royalties  ImmunoGen said it will receive royalties from 3 percent to
5 percent. Worldwide royalties may generate $350 million for
ImmunoGen in 2025, Simeonidis wrote.  About 12 percent of women in the U.S. will develop invasive
breast cancer, according to the  American Cancer Society . About
232,340 new cases of the disease will be diagnosed in women this
year and about 39,620 women will die from breast cancer,
according to the  National Cancer Institute .  Kadcyla will carry a boxed warning that it can cause liver
and heart toxicity and death. Pregnancy status also should be
verified prior to starting the treatment because it can cause
severe life-threatening birth defects, the FDA said.  A clinical study of 991 patients taking Kadcyla or
GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Tykerb, approved in 2007, showed patients
taking Kadcyla lived a median 9.6 months without their disease
progressing compared with 6.4 months for patients taking Tykerb,
the FDA said.  Blocks Growth  T-DM1 is known as an antibody-drug conjugate. The antibody
Herceptin and the chemotherapy DM1 target HER2-positive cancer
cells. T-DM1 blocks the cancer cells from growing and destroys
them by releasing the DM1.  “I hear so much coming from the physician community that
they can’t wait to get their hands on this,” Daniel Junius,
president and chief executive officer of ImmunoGen, said in an
interview.  T-DM1 “opens up a whole new paradigm” as the first
approval of an antibody-drug conjugate in a solid tumor, Junius
said.  There are 10 antibody-drug conjugates in clinical trials
using ImmunoGen’s technology, including the additional work on
T-DM1. Three of the drug candidates are proprietary and wholly
owned by ImmunoGen and being developed to treat lung and ovarian
cancers and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Roche is testing eight
antibody-drug conjugates in early-stage trials and has 25 such
molecules in its pipeline, Horning said.  ImmunoGen has partnerships with companies including Paris-
based Sanofi and Amgen Inc., based in  Thousand Oaks ,  California .
The company plans to be selective about its technology and look
to maintain more control over  drug development , Junius said.  “Nobody’s perfect but I’d rather make my own mistakes,”
Junius said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  