-- Rockefeller Center Owner Tishman Wants More Deals With Vanke
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-22T03:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/rockefeller-center-owner-tishman-wants-more-deals-with-vanke.html
Tishman Speyer Properties LP, the
owner of New York’s Rockefeller Center, wants more deals with
 China Vanke Co. (000002)  after partnering with the nation’s biggest
developer on its first foray into the U.S. real estate market.  The companies are planning two residential towers in San
Francisco that will cost $620 million and have 655 units, making
it one of the largest condominium projects in the city,
according to Rob Speyer, Tishman’s president and co-chief
executive officer. Vanke will invest $175 million, Tishman will
put in $75 million and $370 million will be financed by bank
loans, said Speyer.  The cross-border tieup comes as Chinese developers like
Vanke venture abroad to diversify their portfolios amid tighter
government control of property markets, while U.S. builders are
eyeing opportunities in the world’s second-largest economy.
Tishman also plans to expand in  China ’s commercial and housing
sectors, beyond the four cities it’s already in, Speyer said.  “We are very excited for this first project, and I would
hope it will lead to other projects with Vanke over time,”
Speyer said in a telephone interview on Feb. 20 from New York.
“Real estate is not immune to globalization, and there are
opportunities for all of us to benefit from the industry whether
it’d be in China or U.S.”  The San Francisco project at 201 Folsom St. will feature
connected high-rises of 37 and 42 stories. The project, across
the street from Tishman’s already completed The Infinity condo
towers, is expected to be ready for occupancy by the end of 2016,
Speyer said.  The site is located in San Francisco’s South of Market
district, the most desired office sub-market for technology
companies, including Yelp Inc., Salesforce.com Inc. and Google
Inc.  Tech Boom  Vanke signed the deal on Feb. 12, Chairman Wang Shi wrote
on his microblog on Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like Weibo service,
which was confirmed by Vanke, based in the southern Chinese city
of Shenzhen.  “It was a process over a couple of years getting to know
each other,” Speyer said. “When we decided to bring in a
partner for our new San Francisco project, given their interest
in launching a U.S. business, it was a natural fit.”  San Francisco housing values have been surging, buoyed by
three years of growth in the technology industry. The median
price of a home sold in San Francisco county jumped 16 percent
last month from a year earlier to $699,000, according to
research firm DataQuick.  Vanke set up international units to expand overseas after
it acquired Hong Kong developer Winsor Properties Holdings Ltd.
in May. The developer plans to shift trading of its foreign-
currency shares from Shenzhen to Hong Kong to access a bigger
pool of global investors.  Shares of Vanke have surged 38 percent in the past year and
were unchanged in Shenzhen trading today at 11.31  yuan .  U.S. Expansion  Among other Chinese developers expanding overseas,  Xinyuan
Real Estate Co. (XIN)  in September took control of a lot slated for
more than 200 units of housing near New York’s Brooklyn
waterfront for $54.2 million. The deal was the first of its kind
by a Chinese firm in the U.S., the Beijing-based company said.  Closely held Tishman, based in New York, last year raised
1.2 billion yuan ($192 million) from Chinese investors for a
real estate fund that will develop a two-tower, mixed-use
project in the country’s eastern city of Suzhou. It also has
developments in Shanghai, in the western city of Chengdu and in
Tianjin in the country’s north.  The Beijing central government this week told local
authorities to “decisively” curb real estate speculation and
take steps to rein in the property market after prices rose the
most in two years last month, according to a statement Feb. 20
after a State Council meeting headed by Premier Wen Jiabao.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  