-- Romanian Leu Advances After Government Exceeds Debt Sale Plan
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-02-22T15:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/romanian-leu-advances-after-government-exceeds-debt-sale-plan.html
The leu strengthened, erasing its
losses earlier this week, after the Romanian government exceeded
its debt issuance target for the third consecutive month.  The leu posted the best performance among emerging  Europe ,
Middle East and Africa currencies tracked by Bloomberg this year
as foreign investors piled into the nation’s local debt. It
weakened less than its peers yesterday when riskier assets were
sold off on bets the Federal Reserve may slow the pace of its
purchases of U.S. mortgage-backed securities and Treasuries.
 Romania  reopened its five-year bond, borrowing 800 million lei
($241.3 million) at a record low yield yesterday.  “Despite the ebbing risk sentiment, the leu held up well
and yesterday’s local debt auction received very decent
support,” analysts at  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale (BRD)  SA, including
Roxana Hulea wrote in a note today. “We believe the tender was
supported by some interest from foreigners, reflected in the
evolution of the leu.”  The leu strengthened 0.1 percent to 4.3815 per euro by 4:55
p.m. in Bucharest, wiping out a 0.1 percent loss in the first
four days of this week. The currency has gained 1.5 percent this
year.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said some of
Romania’s debt is eligible for entry to their emerging-market
bond indexes from March.  Romania raised 4.03 billion lei in leu-denominated debt in
February, more than the 3.7 billion lei planned, after raising a
record 11.4 billion lei last month.  Bond Auction  The Finance Ministry sold bonds yesterday at an average
yield of 5.65 percent, the lowest level since at least June
2007. Demand totaled 1.6 billion lei, according to the central
bank’s data.  Romania’s October 2015, January 2016 and July 2017 bonds
currently meet the criteria for index inclusion as they
demonstrate the highest degree of liquidity, according to
JPMorgan.  Many participants at the Jan. 29-30 meeting of the U.S.’s
Federal Open Market Committee “expressed some concerns about
potential costs and risks arising from further asset
purchases,” with some noting that added buying “could foster
market behavior that could undermine financial stability,”
according to the minutes released by the Fed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  