-- Rosengren Says Fed's QE Improves Fiscal Outlook
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-02-22T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/rosengren-says-fed-s-qe-improves-fiscal-outlook.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the Fed’s large-scale asset
purchases help the nation’s fiscal outlook, which should be
reflected in an analysis of remittances to the  U.S. Treasury .  “The LSAP program improves the broader fiscal outlook by
lowering interest rates and providing more economic growth,”
while also helping the Fed promote full employment and hit its 2
percent inflation target, Rosengren said in New York. “We do
well to also consider these benefits, and the costs of inaction,
when evaluating policy.”  Rosengren spoke in response to a paper by four economists,
including former Fed governor  Frederic Mishkin , warning that the
Fed could lose control of monetary policy because of potential
losses from its more-than-$3 trillion balance sheet. The paper
is being presented today at the U.S. Monetary Policy Forum in
 New York .  The paper “highlights a potential problem -- that if
monetary policy is successful in returning us quickly to full
employment, or if  interest rates  rise for other reasons such as
reaching a tipping point, remittances to the Treasury would be
impacted,” Rosengren said in the text of his remarks.
“Unfortunately, this discussion does not do justice to the
policy trade-offs.”  The Fed is currently purchasing $85 billion of Treasuries
and mortgage-backed securities a month to try to bring down
joblessness of 7.9 percent. It previously bought $2.3 trillion
of assets in two earlier quantitative-easing programs. The
economists wrote that the Fed could face substantial losses
concurrent with high U.S. deficits and a failure by Congress and
the White House to put fiscal policy on a sustainable path.  Taxpayer Money  The Fed recently released a paper showing that the income
it has traditionally earned from its policies could disappear
for years as  interest rates  rise. After paying its expenses, the
 central bank  returns any surplus to the Treasury to help fund
the expenses of the U.S. government. In 2012, the Fed returned
$88.9 billion to taxpayers.  A model used by the Boston Fed estimates that an additional
$750 billion in asset purchases would reduce long-term interest
rates by 0.2 percentage point to 0.25 percentage point,
resulting in a $260 billion gain to economic output, Rosengren
said. The model also estimates the stimulus would lower the
jobless rate, he said.  Fed bond buying reduces interest rates and thus the cost of
financing fiscal deficits, Rosengren said. Without the stimulus,
the central bank would also be further from attaining its goals
of full employment and price stability, he said.  Growth Path  “If an extended period of high unemployment causes more
workers to drop out of the  labor force  and places many new
workers on a permanently lower income growth path -- as many
studies have shown -- then failing to undertake LSAPs can have
much broader impacts on fiscal and economic policies,”
Rosengren said.  The U.S. Monetary Policy Forum is sponsored by the
Initiative on Global Markets at the University of Chicago Booth
School of Business.  In addition to Mishkin, now an economist at  Columbia
University , the authors of the paper are David Greenlaw, chief
U.S. fixed income economist for Morgan Stanley; James D. Hamilton, a professor of economics at the  University of
California  in  San Diego ; and  Peter Hooper , chief economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomnberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
NI FED
NI CEN
NI BON
NI GBN
NI INTERNET
NI INF
NI FIN
NI SCR
NI BNK
NI TRE 