-- Royal Bank Joins TD Bracing for Loan Slowdown
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-02-22T21:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/royal-bank-joins-td-bracing-for-loan-slowdown.html
Canada’s banks, recognized as the
world’s strongest after a year of record profits and rising
share prices, will begin to show the effects of a slackening in
domestic consumer lending when they report first-quarter results
next week.  “The Canadian banks did very well through all of this
mess,” said John Kinsey, who helps manage about C$1 billion
($981 million) at Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto, including
bank shares. “Now this is kind of a reality check.”  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , which is trading near an all-time
high,  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and the country’s four other main
lenders are expected to post a 6.9 percent increase in per-share
profit excluding some items for the quarter ended Jan. 31,
according to Darko Mihelic, an analyst at Cormark Securities
Inc. in Toronto.  Canadian banks will probably underperform their U.S. peers,
which are starting to see signs of retail banking tailwinds,
said John Aiken, an analyst at Barclays Plc. Barclays cut its
rating for  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  to underweight
from equal weight, and  National Bank of Canada  to equal weight
from overweight, due to greater reliance on domestic retail
banking. The firm raised the rating for  Bank of Nova Scotia  to
overweight and for Royal Bank to equal weight from underweight.  ‘World’s Soundest’  The nation’s banks, ranked the world’s soundest by the
World Economic Forum for five straight years, face a consumer-
lending slowdown as Canadians struggle with record debt levels
and a cooling housing market. Finance Minister Jim Flaherty
reduced maximum amortization periods for mortgages last year to
rein in borrowing. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney has
repeatedly warned about carrying too much debt.  The eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks
Industry Index  has risen  11 percent in the last 12 months,
outpacing the little-changed Canadian benchmark S&P/TSX
Composite Index while underperforming the 22 percent advance of
the 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  in the U.S. Royal Bank has been
the best performer among Canada’s six-biggest lenders, reaching
a record high of C$64.49 on Feb. 20.  Canada’s four biggest banks rose at 4 p.m. in Toronto, led
by the 0.7 percent increase of  Bank of Nova Scotia .  Household debt reached a record 165 percent of disposable
income in the third quarter of 2012. The Bank of Canada’s
December Financial System Review called “the high level of
household indebtedness” and elevating housing prices the
greatest domestic risk to the economy. New home construction
plunged 19 percent in January from December to the lowest since
the end of 2009, according to Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp.  Credit Cards  The reduction in loan growth has already surfaced in the
banks’ credit-card portfolios. Growth of personal credit-card
loans from chartered banks has stalled, dipping by about 2
percent between November 2011 and December 2012, after
increasing by more than 35 percent in the four years ended
October 2011.  “The anticipated consumer volume slowdown is a Canadian-
specific phenomena, after several years of strong growth,”
Aiken said in a Feb. 20 note. “Although the Canadian banks’
valuations should receive support from their dividend yields, we
see little impetus for multiple expansion in a slowing earnings
growth environment.”  “We’re entering a different era of banking growth in
 Canada ,” said John MacKinlay, financial services consulting
leader with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in Toronto. “The
consumer is largely tapped out in terms of their ability to take
on more credit, and they’ve driven so much of the growth over
the past four years.”  Investment Banking  The banks should be able to compensate for the consumer
retrenchment with increased earnings from investment banking,
Mihelic said.  “Even with the slow-growth environment and consumer
deleveraging happening, there’s still plenty of offsets for the
Canadian banks,” Mihelic said in a Feb. 19 telephone interview.  In addition, the country’s five largest lenders are
expected to announce increases to their quarterly dividends over
the next two weeks, according to Bloomberg Dividend Projections,
which had a 92 percent accuracy level in the fourth quarter of
2012. The last time the same five lenders boosted their payouts
was the third quarter of 2012.  National Bank,  Laurentian Bank of Canada (LB)  and  Canadian
Western Bank (CWB) , the smallest of the country’s eight publicly
traded banks, are expected to maintain their current dividends,
according to the Bloomberg projection.  Quarterly Earnings  Rina Cortese, a spokeswoman for Royal Bank, declined to
comment, as did National Bank’s Claude Breton and Toronto-
Dominion’s Stephen Knight. Spokesmen for the other lenders
didn’t immediately return phone calls seeking comment.  Bank of Montreal , the country’s fourth-largest bank by
assets, is the first to report results on Feb. 26. The Toronto-
based lender is expected to have profit before one-time items of
C$1.47 a share, according to the  average estimate  of 16 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s up 3.8 percent from a year ago,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Four of Canada’s six largest lenders are scheduled to
report results Feb. 28. Royal Bank, the country’s largest by
assets, will increase adjusted profit by 5.7 percent to C$1.32 a
share, according to the  average estimate  of 15 analysts.
Toronto-Dominion, the second-largest, will have a 4.1 percent
profit increase to C$1.94 a share, a  survey  of 15 analysts
found.  Canadian Imperial and  National Bank (NA) , respectively the
fifth- and sixth-largest banks, are also scheduled to report
earnings Feb. 28. CIBC’s profit is  estimated  to rise 6.2 percent
on an adjusted basis to C$2.09 a share and National Bank’s
profit will climb 1.1 percent to C$2.02 a share, according to
the  average estimate  of 14 analysts.  Bank of Nova Scotia , Canada’s third-largest lender, is
estimated to have profit of C$1.26 a share, a 9.1 percent
increase from the year-earlier period, when it reports results
March 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  