-- Russia Bond Yield Rises Most in Week Since May on Lower Crude
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-02-22T16:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/russia-bond-yield-rises-most-in-week-since-may-on-lower-crude.html
Russia ’s ruble bonds due 2027 fell
for a second day, driving the yield to its biggest weekly
increase since May amid lower prices for oil, the country’s main
export earner.  The yield on the OFZ notes rose five basis points to 7.27
percent by 7 p.m. in Moscow, bringing the weekly increase to 21
basis points. That widened the premium investors demand to hold
the bonds compared with debt due June 2015 to 126 basis points,
or 1.26 percentage point, the most since July 12. The yield on
the shorter maturity notes was unchanged in the week at 6
percent, one basis point short of a record low.  Brent crude  has slumped 3.6 percent since this year’s peak
of $118 on Feb. 14 and traded up 0.2 percent today at $113.78 a
barrel. Oil and gas account for about half of Russia’s
government revenue. The longer maturity OFZ is popular with
investors and, being more liquid, it suffers most when markets
weaken and oil drops, according to Leonid Ignatiev, head of
fixed income research at BCS Financial Group.  “We’re seeing an outflow,” Ivan Guminov, a  money manager 
at Ronin Trust, said by e-mail today. “Speculators are selling,
and it’s exactly the 2027 bond they’re selling,”  Investors are also avoiding the notes after Euroclear Bank
SA said Feb. 19 that delivery-versus-payment operations with the
debt will be delayed “for a few days,” Ignatiev said by phone.
Euroclear started direct settlement of government ruble debt
this month.  “The curve will steepen further and reach its maximum peak
in May,” he said. “From June, or July at worst, we’ll see a
turnaround.”  Ruble, Taxes  Annual inflation will slow to 6.5 percent by the end of the
year from 7.1 percent in January, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast.  Bond yields jumped and the ruble tumbled on Feb. 21 after
the release of Federal Reserve meeting minutes sparked concern
the U.S. may curtail stimulus, while a gauge of euro-area
services and manufacturing industries missed estimates, curbing
demand for riskier emerging-market assets.  The ruble strengthened 0.2 percent against the dollar to
30.4105, paring the loss for the week to 0.9%. The ruble added
0.3 percent to 34.7336 against Bank Rossii’s dollar-euro basket
for a weekly loss of 0.1 percent.  The local currency got support from exporters who bought
the ruble after two days of declines to pay mineral extraction
taxes next week, said Igor Akinshin, a currency trader at  Alfa
Bank  in Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  