-- Russian House to Raise 5 Billion Rubles in Asset Sales
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-02-22T14:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/russian-house-to-raise-5-billion-rubles-in-asset-sales.html
OAO Russian Auction House, partly
owned by the nation’s biggest lender  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , plans to
raise at least 5 billion rubles ($165 million) in state-asset
sales for the government, Director Andrei Stepanenko said.  The St. Petersburg-based sales organizer agreed with the
Russian State Property Committee on Feb. 18 to sell stakes in 36
companies, Stepanenko said. The first auctions may be announced
in May, Stepanenko said in an interview today.  “Most of the assets are attractive enough,” said
Stepanenko. “The Auction House is holding talks with potential
bidders including control stakes owners.”  Russia plans to push ahead with a record $10 billion of
asset sales this year as it seeks to stem capital flight and
pare back the state’s hold over the economy, First Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said last month. The government failed to
reach a similar goal last year.  Russia will fall short of its targets for proceeds from
asset sales in 2012 and 2013 as high energy revenue discourages
efforts to weaken the state’s hold on the economy, Julia Tsepliaeva, head of research at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in Moscow, said
on Dec. 7 in an e-mailed note.  The Auction House will prepare sales including 13.11
percent of OAO  Ulyanovsk Automobile Plant (UAZA) , 25.5 percent of OAO
 Murmansk Shipping (MUSH) , 20 percent of OAO Northern Shipping, 25.5
percent of OAO  Sakhalinsky Sea Shipping (SHLS)  and 25.5 percent of OAO
Anapa Airport.  The Stocks of Ulyanovsk Automobile Plant and Sakhalin
Shipping could be sold in the first phase, he said.  Russia may earn 100 billion rubles in state-asset sales in
2013, Russian Economy Minister Andrey Belousov said today in
Berlin, RIA Novosti reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in  St. Petersburg  at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  