-- S&P 500 Caps First Weekly Drop in 2013 on Stimulus Debate
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-02-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/s-p-500-caps-first-weekly-drop-in-2013-on-stimulus-debate.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
capped its first weekly decline of the year, after reaching the
highest level since October 2007, amid increasing concern the
 Federal Reserve  will curtail its stimulus program.  Equities rebounded on the last day of the week as German
business confidence rose more than estimated. Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. and U.S. Steel Corp. sank at least 7.3
percent to pace declines in raw-material companies. Abercrombie
& Fitch Co. tumbled 8 percent as it forecast a first-quarter
 loss .  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the largest personal-computer maker,
surged 14 percent after forecasting profit that beat estimates.  The S&P 500 slid 0.3 percent for the holiday-shortened week
to 1,515.60. The index snapped a  seven-week  advance, the longest
stretch since January 2011. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
advanced 18.81 points, or 0.1 percent, to 14,000.57.  “When things seem to go in straight lines, it makes me
wonder how long the good times can keep rolling,” said Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee about $217 billion as chief
portfolio strategist at  Wells Fargo Advantage (EAD)  Funds, in
Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin. “The Fed didn’t tell us anything we
didn’t already know, but sometimes it doesn’t take a lot to push
prices around.”  Equities fell as several policy makers said the central
bank should be ready to vary the pace of their $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases, according to minutes of the Fed’s latest
meeting. Concern about the debate over the risks and benefits of
further quantitative easing helped give the  S&P 500  its biggest
two-day decline since November during the week.  Spending Cuts  Next week’s March 1 deadline to avoid automatic U.S.
spending cuts may get investors’ attention. It marks another
fiscal showdown between President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Republicans. If Congress doesn’t act, federal spending will be
reduced by $85 billion in the final seven months of this fiscal
year and by $1.2 trillion over the next nine years.  The S&P 500 has gained 6.3 percent this year as U.S.
lawmakers agreed on a compromise on taxes in January and amid
better-than-estimated corporate earnings. About 73 percent of
the S&P 500 companies that have released quarterly  results  beat
profit estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
index trades at 14.97 times reported earnings, below the average
since  1954 (SPX)  of 16.4.  “The support for the market remains,”  John Carey ,  fund
manager  with Boston-based Pioneer Investment Management, said in
a telephone interview. His firm oversees $200 billion. “There’s
been a fairly good stream of earnings. There’s certainly nothing
to scare anyone.”  Biggest Losses  Measures of commodity and consumer discretionary companies
had the biggest losses in the S&P 500 among  10 industries  in the
week, slumping at least 1.4 percent. The Morgan Stanley Cyclical
Index of companies most-tied to economic growth retreated 1.7
percent, the most since November.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
measures the cost of using options as insurance against declines
in the S&P 500, surged 14 percent to 14.17. The gauge, which had
the biggest weekly advance this year, rose after sliding to the
lowest level since April 2007 on Feb. 19.  Abercrombie (ANF)  tumbled 8 percent, the most since August, to
$46.86. The retailer said it anticipates a “slight” loss in
earnings per share in the first quarter, citing a tough economy
and difficulty tied to cold-weather inventory.  ‘Very Concerned’  The company is “very concerned around the macroeconomic
situation coming into the first quarter,” Chief Executive
Officer Michael Jeffries said. Abercrombie will “see a
resumption of healthier sales” in the second quarter, he said.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  declined 2 percent to $450.81. Foxconn
Technology Group, the maker of products including the iPhone,
froze hiring across China, fueling concern that the move
reflects diminished demand for consumer electronics. Bruce Liu,
a spokesman for Taipei-based Foxconn, said the company halted
recruitment until the end of March after more workers returned
from the Lunar New Year break than a year earlier.  Apple has retreated 36 percent from a  record high  in
September, compared with a 3.7 percent gain for the S&P 500.  A measure of homebuilders in S&P indexes slumped 6 percent,
the biggest decline since September. Toll Brothers Inc., the
largest U.S. luxury-home builder, tumbled 6.7 percent to $34.59
after reporting fiscal first-quarter earnings that trailed
analyst estimates and projecting narrower margins.  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  sank 11 percent to $35. The biggest maker of
navigation devices forecast 2013 sales and profit that  missed 
estimates as consumers switch to smartphones for maps and
directions.  Missing Estimates  VeriFone Systems Inc. plunged 42 percent, the most since
November 2008, to $18.92. The maker of credit-card terminals
forecast second-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates
amid weak economic conditions in Europe.  Hewlett-Packard added 14 percent, the most since March
2009, to $19.20. The company is using job cuts to bolster profit
as demand for printers and personal computers slumps and
companies curtail purchases of higher-margin hardware and
software. Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  said she feels
“pretty good” about fiscal 2013 and reaffirmed a prediction
that the company will resume growth next year, evidence of
progress on a five-year turnaround plan even as competitive
pressures linger.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  rose 0.9 percent to $799.71. The operator of
the world’s largest Web-search engine surpassed $800 for the
first time as mobile computing bolsters growth.  More Advertisers  The company is benefiting as more advertisers place
promotions on its website, buoyed by the growing number of users
who access the service on smartphones and tablets. Google
grabbed 67 percent of the search market in the U.S. in January,
while rivals  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and Microsoft Corp. had less than 30
percent combined, according to  ComScore Inc.   “This is just such a great business, and they so clearly
dominate it,” said  Martin Pyykkonen , an analyst at  Wedge
Partners  in Greenwood Village, Colorado. “Google has got this
knight-in-shining-armor that nobody can kind of penetrate.”  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  rose 1.8 percent to $34.18. The
largest maker of analog chips increased its quarterly  dividend 
by 33 percent and said it added $5 billion to its stock
repurchase program.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  gained 1.6 percent to $70.40. Fourth-
quarter profit topped analysts’ estimates and the company raised
its dividend, overshadowing concerns that tax increases would
hurt earnings this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  