-- Sanofi Gets EU Backing for New Attempt at 6-in-1 Child Vaccine
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-02-22T12:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/sanofi-gets-eu-backing-for-new-attempt-at-6-in-1-child-vaccine.html
Sanofi (SAN)  won European Union regulatory
backing for its six-in-one children’s vaccine, the French
drugmaker’s second attempt at such a product and part of a plan
to grow in a market dominated by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   The vaccine, designed to protect children against diseases
that include whooping cough and hepatitis B, was recommended by
the  European Medicines Agency ’s Committee for Medicinal Products
for Human Use, Sanofi said in a statement today. The  European
Commission , the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, usually follows
the panel’s recommendation.  Sanofi’s new vaccine will compete with Glaxo’s  Infanrix
Hexa , one of several Infanrix products sold by the U.K.
competitor. Infanrix garnered 775 million pounds ($1.2 billion)
in total worldwide sales last year. The EMA had in 2005
suspended the marketing authorization for Hexavac, a previous
Sanofi version of such a shot, over doubts on the protection
provided by its hepatitis B component.  “Right now, Glaxo has a monopoly in this area,” Eric Le Berrigaud, an analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co. in Paris, said in a
telephone interview before the CHMP opinion was announced.  Fully Liquid  Shares in Sanofi traded 1.6 percent higher at 72.35 euros
at 1:07 p.m. in Paris, where the drugmaker is based.  Sanofi’s new product is the only fully liquid and ready-to-
use six-in-one children’s vaccine, meaning it doesn’t need to be
reconstituted before injection, making the shot easier for
doctors than the Glaxo one, according to Paris-based Sanofi. In
clinical studies, it was compared to different vaccines already
on the market, including Infanrix Hexa, and showed a “similar
high immunogenicity profile for all antigens,” Sanofi Pasteur,
the French drugmaker’s vaccine division, said in e-mailed
comments yesterday.  In  Europe , the new vaccine will be sold under two different
brand names, Sanofi Pasteur said. In western Europe, it will be
marketed by Sanofi Pasteur MSD, a joint venture between  Merck &
Co. (MRK)  and Sanofi Pasteur, under the brand name Hexyon. In eastern
Europe it will be marketed only by Sanofi Pasteur, under the
brand name Hexacima, the company said.  The new vaccine is expected to be a “key growth driver”
for Sanofi Pasteur this year, Olivier Charmeil, the division’s
head, said during a Feb. 7 conference call with analysts.  The new vaccine also protects against diphtheria, tetanus,
poliomyelitis and invasive infections caused by Haemophilus
influenzae type b, or HIB. HIB is a bacterium that can cause a
wide range of diseases in infants, including meningitis and
pneumonia.  Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  is
developing new products to make up for lost sales from generic
competition to some of Sanofi’s top-selling medicines, such as
the blood-thinner Plavix and Avapro, a treatment for
hypertension. Excluding the new children’s vaccine, Sanofi
obtained nine regulatory approvals over the past year, for
medicines such as Zaltrap, to treat cancer, and Aubagio, a
treatment for multiple sclerosis, the company said Feb. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  