-- Scott Thomas Broods, Oscar Gems, Duchamp: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-02-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/scott-thomas-broods-oscar-gems-duchamp-london-weekend.html
Kristin  Scott Thomas  is back in
 London  playing a jaded wife whose former housemate drops by.  In Harold Pinter’s “Old Times,” Scott Thomas’s character
Kate and her husband Deeley (Rufus Sewell) welcome Anna (Lia
Williams), who remembers what a fun girl Kate once was. Soon it
appears Anna and Deeley might have met before. Or they might
not. The play becomes a rumination on how human memory reshapes
the past.  The actresses swap roles on different nights; Scott Thomas
is convincing either way. At the Harold Pinter Theatre, Panton
Street, SW1Y 4DN. Information:  http://www.oldtimestheplay.com .  If you want a bite to eat before or after, Spuntino is a
short walk away. This casual, no-bookings venue is open till
midnight. The menu is inspired by hangouts in  New York , and
focuses on simple dishes such as macaroni and cheese. Spuntino
belongs to the owners of nearby Polpo. Information:
 http://www.spuntino.co.uk/ . (There’s no telephone line.)  Saturday  When is a urinal not a urinal?  When it’s signed by that great con(-ceptual) artist Marcel Duchamp, whose anything-is-art credo influenced generations of
creatives. Four in particular --  Robert Rauschenberg ,  Jasper Johns , John Cage, Merce Cunningham -- now get a Barbican show.  Next to major Duchamp works are Johns’s branded ale and
coffee cans, sculpted in bronze; and Rauschenberg “combines,”
featuring a fork, a boot, or a flashlight. Bringing it all to
life are the two Disklavier pianos that play Cage music in a
loop, and the contemporary dancers who sporadically perform
Cunningham on a central stage.  There’s also a parallel slate of shows, talks and films,
including Bob Wilson in John Cage’s “Lecture on Nothing” (Feb.
25) and Beckett’s play “Watt” (Feb. 26-March 16). “The Bride
and the Bachelors” ends June 9. Information:
 http://www.barbican.org.uk  or +44-845-121-6823.  The Jugged Hare, across the street from the Barbican, is a
busy pub with a popular dining room. The menu is meat-centered
and there’s a spit on which dishes such as venison haunch with
wild boar stuffing are prepared. It’s wise to book ahead.
Information:  http://www.thejuggedhare.com/  or +44-20-7614-0134.  Saturday Night  The annual NME awards tour is required listening for rock
fans keen to hear some of the most promising acts before they
make it big.  This year’s lineup is headlined by the Scottish act Django
Django, whose debut album won praise for fusing African sounds
with folk harmonies. The lineup also includes Miles Kane, Palma
Violets and Peace.  O2 Academy Brixton, 211 Stockwell Road, SW9 9SL.
Information: 44-844-477-2000,  http://www.o2academybrixton.co.uk/   Rock fans may also enjoy balladeer Richard Hawley, who
plays The Troxy (490 Commercial Road, E1 0HX) or the urban
rhymes of Example at Earls Court (Warwick Rd, SW5 9TA).  Sunday  On the day the Oscars get rolled out, you can check out one
nominee that deserved to win.  Max Ophuls’s freshly restored “Madame de…” (1953) is about
a bored countess who sells the diamond earrings her husband gave
her to fund an extravagant lifestyle. The jewels spark a chain
of events that soon see the countess fall for another guy.  The statuette (one of two given for costume design in 1955)
went to “Sabrina” instead.  At the British Film Institute:  http://www.bfi.org.uk .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food;  Mark Beech 
on books; New York and London  weekend guides ;  Lewis Lapham  on
history and  Lance Esplund  on New York art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 