-- SEC Enforcement Chief Sees Priority Shift From Crisis Cases
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-02-22T20:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/sec-enforcement-chief-sees-priority-shifting-from-crisis-cases.html
George Canellos, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission’s acting enforcement chief, said his
unit is at an “inflection point” in redefining priorities
previously focused on conduct related to the 2008 credit crisis.  Investigators are now looking at the conduct of gatekeepers
such as accountants and board members, new and evolving market
technologies, and activity in the private-equity industry in an
environment of low  interest rates , Canellos said today during a
panel discussion at a securities law conference in  Washington .  The SEC overhauled the enforcement division in 2010,
creating specialized units to focus on areas such as structured
products that helped fuel market turmoil in 2008 after the U.S.
housing market collapsed. An enforcement advisory committee has
been set up to evaluate new priorities, according to David Bergers, the enforcement division’s acting deputy director.  “We can’t remain static,” Bergers said in the discussion
at the Practising Law Institute’s “SEC Speaks” event.  The advisory panel’s primary goal is to make it easier for
SEC attorneys to investigate and litigate cases, Bergers said.
The agency is more aggressively seeking to enforce subpoenas
when companies delay requests for documents, he said.  The enforcement unit is working on a tool that can help
predict accounting fraud by mining information in public filings
and identifying outliers in discretionary accruals, according to
Bergers.  Shaping Conduct  Canellos said the division is examining use of so-called
21a reports that enable the SEC to lay out the findings of an
investigation even if the agency isn’t able to file an
enforcement action. Those reports are “vital” for the SEC to
shape industry conduct, he said.  SEC officials also highlighted work on insider-trading
cases, including an asset freeze filed Feb. 15 against unknown
traders who reaped $1.7 million by purchasing  H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ) 
stock options before a $23 billion takeover of the ketchup maker
was announced. The SEC got the asset freeze within two days of
the trades.  Investigators will continue to monitor for well-timed bets
ahead of merger and acquisition announcements, said Sanjay Wadhwa, a senior attorney in the SEC’s  New York  office.  “As the global M&A market rebounds and kicks into gear, I
dare say you will see more of these actions coming out of the
SEC,” said Wadhwa, who also spoke on the panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  