-- SEC Wins Asset Freeze After Heinz Traders Fail to Appear
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/sec-wins-asset-freeze-after-heinz-traders-don-t-appear-in-court.html
A U.S. judge froze a  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  account that regulators say was used to make
suspicious trades in H.J. Heinz Co., after unknown traders
failed to appear in court to defend their claims to the assets.  When the unidentified traders didn’t show up at a hearing
yesterday in  Manhattan , U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said he
would grant the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
request to freeze the Goldman Sachs account in Zurich until the
case is resolved.  “They can hide, but their assets can’t run,” Rakoff
announced, saying he had granted the SEC’s request and signed
the freeze order.  The agency said in its complaint that the trades came a day
before  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and 3G Capital
Inc. announced the $23 billion takeover of Pittsburgh-based
Heinz, which Heinz said is the largest in the  food industry . The
suspicious trading involved call-option contracts, the SEC said.  Goldman Sachs told the regulator it doesn’t have “direct
access” to information about the beneficial owner behind
transactions in the account. The New York-based bank told the
agency the account holder is a Zurich private-wealth client, the
SEC said in a court filing. Goldman has said it’s cooperating
with authorities.  ‘Omnibus Account’  The SEC on Feb. 15 sued “unknown” traders who used an
“omnibus account” and invested almost $90,000 in Heinz option
positions the day before the deal was announced. As a result,
their position increased to more than $1.8 million, a rise of
almost 2,000 percent in one day.  The SEC, which obtained a preliminary freeze on the funds
from Rakoff on Feb. 15, said that the traders had material
nonpublic information about the impending deal when they bought
2,533  call options , which had a strike price of $65 on Feb. 13.
Shares closed that day at $60.48.  Heinz shares jumped 20 percent to $72.50 on Feb. 14,
following the announcement that Berkshire Hathaway and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital had agreed to buy Heinz.  As a result of the takeover announcement, the price of the
June call options jumped to a close of $7.33 on Feb. 14 from 40
cents the day before, an increase of more than 1,700 percent.  Missed Deadline  Rakoff, who on Feb. 15 put a temporary freeze on the assets
in the Goldman Sachs account, directed anyone connected to the
trades to appear before him at 2 p.m. yesterday to explain why
the assets shouldn’t be permanently restrained. After the
judge’s clerk inquired if anyone was present on behalf of the
unknown traders, the judge took the bench.  “It appears that the defendants known as ’Certain Unknown
Traders in the Securities of  H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ) ’ have chosen to
remain unknown, at least in terms of any appearance today in
court,” Rakoff said. “The matter is called. It’s now 2:22 and
no one has appeared.”  Charles Riely, a lawyer for the SEC, said that neither the
unidentified traders nor their representatives have contacted
the agency since the suit was filed.  “So, there appears to be no opposition to the proposed
order that would freeze on a more permanent basis pending
further proceedings of the amount in question and also prohibits
the destruction of records,” Rakoff said. “I find that the
relief was very well warranted and so I have signed the propose
order.”  Two Months  Rakoff told the SEC’s lawyers yesterday that they must tell
him if and when they learn the identities of the defendants. He
directed them to report to him every two months and ordered the
commission to make its next report to him by May 1.  Trading in the options gives the right to buy the
underlying shares and profit when the stock rises. The timing
and size of the trades were deemed highly suspicious by the SEC
as the accounts used had no history of trading Heinz securities
in the previous six months and the only trading in the account
involving Heinz occurred the day before the takeover was
announced.  The purchase of the options for June was also rare: on Feb.
12, only 14 were bought, regulators said, while on Feb. 11, none
were. Since Nov. 14, no more than 61 such contracts had been
purchased on any other single day, the commission said.  ‘Swiss Accounts’  The SEC said the unidentified traders are “either in
 Switzerland  or trading through Swiss accounts,” and argued that
an emergency application to freeze the assets was necessary to
prevent the individuals from moving their “realized and
unrealized profits of nearly $1.8 million overseas and out of
this court’s reach.”  The SEC provided a redacted copy of a trade blotter for
what it described as “a Goldman Sachs omnibus firm customer
facilitation account” showing that from Sept. 1 through Feb.
13, the only trading in Heinz occurred on the day before the
takeover announcement.  The SEC described the account as “GS Bank IC Buy Open
Listed Options, GS & CO C/O Zurich Office.”  The SEC has asked Swiss authorities for assistance in
identifying the traders. The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
Authority will cooperate with the SEC’s request “within the
framework of our mandate,” Christina Buergi, a spokeswoman for
the authority, said in a phone interview. Buergi said the
request had been made “recently” and declined to comment
further.  FBI Probe  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in  New York  said this
week that it’s also investigating the matter and is working with
the SEC.  The SEC wants the assets frozen until the case is resolved
because there is a “serious risk that the substantial proceeds
from the defendants’ trading will leave the jurisdiction of the
U.S. courts in the next few days and may never be recovered,”
according to a court filing.  The SEC said the Heinz case is similar to other insider-
trading cases in which the agency has obtained a preliminary
asset freeze based on “circumstantial evidence.” The
commission said federal judges in New York as well as the
Manhattan-based  U.S. Court of Appeals  have upheld the legality
of its actions.  The SEC has been increasing its focus on  insider trading  by
overseas buyers of U.S.-traded securities. As of December, the
agency had filed three times as many emergency asset-freeze
requests in such cases since 2010 as in the prior two years. The
regulator cited suspect trading patterns, typically before
mergers or other market-moving news.  Brazil Deal  One SEC case involved another deal connected to 3G Capital.
In November, a Brazilian ex-banker and his firm agreed to pay
$5.1 million to settle SEC claims that he made illegal trades
ahead of 3G’s 2010 acquisition of Burger King Holdings Inc.  Igor Cornelsen learned about the impending merger from a
Wells Fargo & Co. broker, whose client had invested with 3G and
knew about the acquisition, the SEC alleged.  Neither 3G nor any of its employees has been accused of
wrongdoing in the Heinz matter.  Sometimes the accountholders do come forward. Last year,
the SEC filed a suit in federal court in Manhattan seeking to
freeze proceeds of the trades in Carlyss, Louisiana-based Global
Industries.  The SEC said the unidentified owners of an account at
Vienna-based  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  bought 685,840
shares of Global Industries days before a Sept. 12, 2011,
announcement that the company would be acquired by  Technip SA (TEC) ,
 Europe ’s second-largest oil services business.  Shares Sold  The account earned $1.7 million when shares were sold after
the deal was announced, according to the SEC. The agency said it
didn’t know who owned the account when it filed the lawsuit.  About 10 months after the SEC won a judge’s order freezing
the funds, Ergoport Experts Ltd. responded to the SEC’s lawsuit,
identifying itself in court papers as a unit of an entity called
Interhold Ltd. Ergoport, which according to Robert Heim, a
lawyer for the company in New York, managed at least $40
million, said it made the trades, denied acting on inside tips
and continues to seek to recover the $5.3 million.  A federal judge in Manhattan agreed to stay the SEC’s case
pending a criminal insider-trading probe by  Brooklyn , New York,
U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Certain Unknown Traders in Securities of H.J. Heinz Co., 13-
cv-1080, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in New York federal court at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  