-- Sempra Plans Mexican IPO Marking Energy Industry’s Bolsa Debut
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-02-22T23:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/sempra-plans-mexican-ipo-marking-energy-industry-s-bolsa-debut.html
Sempra Energy (SRE) , a U.S. gas
distributor, sought permission to sell shares of its local unit
in  Mexico , the first offering for an energy company in a nation
poised to break state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos’s monopoly on
fuel delivery.  Bolsa Mexicana (BOLSAA)  de Valores SAB, the Mexican exchange
operator, announced Sempra’s request in a statement today.
Sempra Mexico sent a separate regulatory filing to the exchange
yesterday saying the company had approved a measure that would
allow it to sell shares.  Sempra sold 5.2 billion pesos ($409 million) of bonds in
Mexico last week, the biggest local issuance this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pemex, as the oil
producer is known, last month announced a joint venture with
Sempra to build the first phase of a natural- gas pipeline  in
Northern Mexico. Sempra also won a contract in October with
state power utility Comision Federal de Electricidad, or CFE, to
build a gas pipeline and operate it for 25 years.  “This is a company that has been betting on Mexico for
many years,” David Shields, a Mexico City-based independent
energy analyst and publisher of Energia magazine, said in a
phone interview. The share sale “is a signal that Sempra now
sees Mexico not only as a destination for gas distribution but
also as a funding source,” he said.  Mexican Investment  Sempra is planning to invest $1.15 billion in Mexico “in
the coming years,”  Carlos Ruiz , head of Sempra’s Mexico unit,
said in a Jan. 18 statement on the company’s website.  Mexican president Enrique Pena Nieto and the heads of the
three largest political parties on Dec. 2 signed the Pact for
Mexico, calling for the passage of an energy bill that opens
some Pemex activities, such as refining and fuel distribution,
to competition.  Doug Kline, a spokesman for San Diego-based Sempra,
declined to comment on the share sale filing.  The CFE pipeline contract will connect gas supplies from
 Arizona  to the port of Guaymas in northwestern Mexico. Once the
project is completed the pipeline will have capacity for 760
million cubic feet a day. Investment in the CFE project may be
$630 million to $730 million, according to a  presentation  from
Pemex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net  