-- Shanghai Will Punish Electronics Maker for Polluting River
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-22T07:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/shanghai-to-punish-computer-parts-maker-for-polluting-river.html
Shanghai ’s government said it will
punish a Taiwanese tablet maker affiliated with  Pegatron Corp. (4938) 
for polluting a river in the city’s Songjiang district.  RiTeng Computer Accessory Co. discharged waste through a
rain pipe into a local river, the Songjiang environmental
protection bureau said in a Feb. 17  statement  on its website.
The pollution was reported during the Lunar New Year holiday,
the government said. Shares of  Casetek Holdings Ltd. (5264)  pared
losses after the Taipei-based parent of RiTeng said today the
one-time incident wasn’t related to production procedures and
will have a limited impact.  Workers at the Shanghai factory didn’t follow proper waste-
water management procedures while conducting a cleanup, Jonathan Chang, chief financial officer of Casetek, told Bloomberg News
by telephone today. The company hasn’t been notified of the
penalty and expects the fine won’t exceed 300,000  yuan 
($48,000), he said.  Chemical spills and industrial waste pollution in  China 
have fueled criticism of the government’s environmental controls
and spurred protests in some cities. Shanghai Mayor Yang Xiong
has said the environment is among issues the municipality plans
to tackle over the next five years.  Casetek closed 0.7 percent lower at NT$144 in Taipei after
dropping by the 6.9 percent daily limit. Volume was almost
triple that of yesterday and the highest since the shares began
trading last month.  “Any penalty on Casetek will be limited,” Angela Hsiang,
an analyst at KGI Securities Co., said in a report today. “The
dip in the share price brings an investment opportunity” as the
company’s current valuation is lower than its peers, she said.  A 2011 explosion at a RiTeng factory in Shanghai injured
employees and resulted in damage to some equipment, according to
a filing by Pegatron to the Taiwan stock exchange.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  