-- Singapore Police Says Man Aiding in Match-Fixing Probe
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-02-22T11:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/singapore-police-says-man-aiding-in-match-fixing-probe.html
Singapore  police said a Singaporean
man is helping authorities in their probe into international
soccer match-fixing.  Dan Tan Seet Eng is assisting Singapore authorities in
their investigations, the police said in an e-mailed statement.
Tan couldn’t be reached for comment as his contact details
aren’t available in Singapore’s public telephone directory.  Europol,  Europe ’s law enforcement agency, said Feb. 4 a
Singapore-based operation tried to fix more than 380 games,
including  World Cup  and European Championship qualifiers, to
generate more than 8 million euros ($10.6 million) in profit. An
18-month investigation, Operation VETO, found 425 match
officials, club executives, players and criminals in 15
countries worked to cheat.  Interpol, the International Criminal Police Organization,
yesterday arrested Admir Suljic, a soccer match-fixing suspect
wanted by Italian authorities. The arrest followed “close
cooperation between Italian and Singaporean police,” Interpol
said in an e-mailed statement.  Singapore police said it informed the National Crime Bureau
Rome of the travel plans of a person wanted by Italian
authorities probing match-fixing. The person, who wasn’t
identified by Singapore police, had since been arrested.  Singapore is sending four senior officers to Interpol’s
headquarters in Lyon,  France , to join its Global Anti-Match-
Fixing task force, the police said in a separate e-mailed
statement yesterday.  “Singapore is committed to eradicating match-fixing as a
transnational crime and protect the integrity of the sport and
will pursue such cases vigorously with a view to bringing
perpetrators to justice,” the police said. The Interpol mission
“will enable us to build a concrete case, not just against
individuals, but also against the syndicates involved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  