-- Singapore Seeks to Repeat Biomedical Success in Space Industry
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-22T05:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/singapore-seeks-to-repeat-biomedical-success-in-space-industry.html
Singapore , which is planning to send
a citizen into space in 2015, said it hopes its foray into space
technology will become as important a growth driver as its
biomedical industry.  The country can leverage its electronics sector to help
develop a satellite industry, Ow Foong Pheng, permanent
secretary at the Ministry of Trade and Industry, told reporters
today. The biomedical industry overtook electronics last year as
the biggest contributor to manufacturing, a government  report 
today showed.  Singapore has lifted a decades-old ban on casinos and
promoted industries such as pharmaceutical manufacturing,
biotechnology research and wealth management to reduce the
economy’s reliance on electronics exports. The government said
yesterday it has set up an Office for Space Technology and
Industry to oversee the sector’s development as it seeks a share
of the $290 billion global space market.  “We see an opportunity in the satellites industry cluster,
riding mainly on our established capabilities that we have in
the electronics integration, certain strengths that we have,”
Ow said. “It would be good if it grows” to what the biomedical
industry has become for Singapore, she said.  Biomedical output rose almost four-fold last decade, to
S$23.3 billion ($19 billion) in 2010 from S$6 billion in 2000,
according to the  Economic Development Board . Since 2001, dozens
of foreign drug makers and biomedical companies, including
GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Novartis AG and Pfizer Inc., have set up
factories in Singapore. The industry made up 25.5 percent of
manufacturing last year, overtaking electronics at 25 percent.  “The growth of Singapore’s space industry will generate
positive spillovers to other existing industries in Singapore,”
S. Iswaran, second minister of trade, said yesterday.
“Industries such as transport engineering, precision engineering,
electronics and info communications and media could benefit from
this growth.”  Singapore is planning a space flight with one of its
citizens piloting a vessel 20 kilometers above earth on its
National Day on Aug. 9, 2015, the Straits Times newspaper
reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  