-- Six Nuclear Waste Tanks Leaking at Washington State Site
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/six-nuclear-waste-tanks-leaking-at-washington-state-site.html
Six tanks holding radioactive waste
at the U.S. Energy Department’s Hanford site in  Washington  are
leaking, more than reported earlier, Governor Jay Inslee said.  He learned of the new number, five more than identified as
leaky a week ago, in a meeting yesterday with Energy Secretary
Steven Chu in Washington, D.C., Inslee, 62, said in a statement.  “This is disturbing news for all Washingtonians,” the
Democratic governor said. “One week ago, Secretary Chu told me
there was one tank leaking. But he told me today that his
department did not adequately analyze data it had that would
have shown other tanks that are leaking.”  While Inslee said there’s no immediate health threat from
the leaky tanks, which are more than five miles from the
Columbia River, the disclosure marks the latest setback in a
decades-long cleanup effort. Last week, Inslee said that an
underground storage tank at Hanford was losing as much as 300
gallons of radioactive sludge a year.  The leaky tanks are among 177 buried at Hanford, about 200
miles (320 kilometers) southeast of  Seattle . The vessels contain
56 million gallons of the most dangerous waste, according to a
U.S. Government Accountability Office  report . The 586-square-
mile site was used to produce plutonium for nuclear weapons.  Democratic Senator  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon , across the Columbia
from Washington, will ask the GAO to review the monitoring and
maintenance of the Hanford tanks, according to Keith Chu, a
spokesman. The agency is the investigative arm of Congress.  Federal Failure  “This is the latest example of the U.S. Department of
Energy’s failure to adequately resolve the significant threat
posed by the nuclear waste at Hanford,” Washington Attorney
General  Bob Ferguson  said in a statement. “Our office continues
to explore all legal options.”  Chu’s revelation “certainly raises serious questions about
the integrity of all 149 single-shell tanks with radioactive
liquid and sludge at Hanford,” Inslee said. All six of the
leaky vessels are the single-shell type, he said.  The Energy Department is considering ways to speed the
removal of material from the aging containers, Inslee said.  Chu “has assured me he will do all he can to address the
issue of the leaking tanks,” Inslee said. “He also assured me
there will be immediate additional monitoring of the single-wall
tanks.”  The department is working with the state “and other key
stakeholders to address the issues associated with these
tanks,” Lindsey Geisler, an agency spokeswoman, said in a
statement.  Hanford decontamination has been stymied by delays and
technical issues, causing the projected cost to triple to $13.4
billion since 2000, the GAO said in December. Hanford was the
site of the world’s first large-scale reactor, developed as part
of the Manhattan Project that produced the first atomic bombs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  