-- Slovenia Opposition Seeks to Topple Cabinet and Avoid Early Vote
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-02-22T11:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/slovenia-opposition-seeks-to-topple-cabinet-and-avoid-early-vote.html
Slovenia’s largest opposition party,
whose public support is tumbling, plans to ask lawmakers to back
its candidate for premier next month to avert early elections as
it seeks to topple the minority government.  The Positive Slovenia party wants to ask the 90-member
Parliament to simultaneously vote in March on ousting Prime
Minister  Janez Jansa  and choosing Alenka Bratusek to lead a new
majority government cobbled together with former coalition
partners who have quit the Cabinet over corruption allegations
against Jansa. Stocks fell the most in more than two months.  Slovenia’s political leaders are scrambling to avoid an
early vote as the largest parties are engulfed in scandal. Jansa
and former Positive Slovenia leader Zoran Jankovic were both
accused by the anti-corruption agency of hiding private assets
as the nation tries to avoid a financial bailout and emerge from
recession with no finance minister at the helm.  “The government is in a state of disarray,” Timothy Ash,
an  emerging markets  economist at Standard Bank Plc in  London 
said in a report today. Positive Slovenia is “most eager to
avoid early elections.”  The benchmark  SBITOP stock index  fell 3.2 percent to 611.72
as of 12:11 p.m. in Ljubljana its biggest drop since Dec. 19 and
the second-largest in the world today. Slovenia’s dollar-
denominated bond maturing in 2022 was unchanged from yesterday
at 5.15 percent at 12:03 in Ljubljana, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Key Decisions’  While its leaders jockey for power, the Adriatic nation
that was the first post-communist country to adopt the euro,
needs to continue efforts to fix its ailing banking industry.
Slovenia faces a 2 percent decline in gross domestic product
this year and has to ratify neighboring  Croatia ’s bid to join
the European Union on July 1.  “Really key decisions need to be taken” such as
“Croatia’s European Union accession and issues around the
crisis in the banking sector,” Ash said.  The Pensioners Party is quitting the governing coalition
today, leaving Jansa short of the 46 votes needed to pass
legislation. Positive Slovenia would need a majority in
parliament to topple Jansa’s government as well as to form the
new administration.  The banking industry, struggling under the burden of bad
loans, reported a pretax loss of 664 million euros for 2012,
according to the country’s central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  