-- SNS Reaal Wins Temporary Approval From EU for Dutch Rescue
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-22T17:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/sns-reaal-wins-temporary-approval-from-eu-for-dutch-rescue.html
SNS Reaal NV (SR)  won temporary approval
from European Union regulators for recapitalizations and a
bridge loan from the Dutch government, which took control of the
country’s fourth-largest lender earlier this month.  A restructuring plan for SNS Reaal must be sent to the
European Commission within six months before the Brussels-based
authority gives final approval for the aid, the EU said in an e-
mailed statement today. The EU will examine a 300 million-euro
($395 million) recapitalization and a 1.1 billion-euro bridge
loan for SNS Reaal and a 1.9 billion-euro recapitalization for
its SNS Bank unit.  “The intervention by the Dutch state leads to far-reaching
and appropriate burden sharing by shareholders and hybrid
capital holders,” the EU said in the statement. “Through the
nationalization all capital holders of SNS Reaal and SNS Bank --
including hybrid capital holders -- are fully participating in
the losses of SNS Reaal.”  The EU must examine large government payments to banks to
ensure they don’t receive an unfair advantage over rivals. It
has required banks to sell assets or set limits on executive
bonuses, acquisitions and dividends to compensate for harm to
competition in return for final approval for state help.  Today’s decision allows the Dutch government to proceed
with the capital injections and the bridge loan, Ben Feiertag, a
spokesman for the Dutch  finance ministry  said in an e-mail.  Restructuring Plan  Roland Kroes, a spokesman for SNS Reaal, said the bank had
“taken note of the announcement and will get started on the
restructuring plan.”  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem took control of
SNS Reaal on Feb. 1, after real estate losses brought the bank
to the brink of collapse. The nationalization included shares
and subordinated bonds in SNS Reaal and SNS Bank. The bailout of
SNS Reaal will cost taxpayers 3.7 billion euros in write-offs
and capital injections, and the government is also providing 6.1
billion euros in loans and guarantees.  Dijsselbloem, sworn in on Nov. 5, became the first finance
minister to use powers granted under legislation introduced last
year allowing the  Dutch central bank  to transfer assets and
liabilities in a troubled bank. A decision that is allowable
when there is a grave and immediate threat to the stability of
the financial system.  Investors are appealing in Dutch courts the government’s
expropriation, claiming it is disproportionate and relies too
heavily on one assessment of the company’s real estate loans.  The nationalization comes less than five years after the
Netherlands bought Fortis’s Dutch banking and insurance units
and its stake in ABN Amro Holding NV for 16.8 billion euros when
the company ran out of short-term funding, customers withdrew
deposits and investors lost confidence. The government also
provided aid to  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch financial-
services company, and  Aegon NV (AGN)  at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  