-- Soybeans Held at Brazil Ports Boost Prices in China, Wilmar Says
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-02-22T09:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/soybeans-held-at-brazil-ports-boost-prices-in-china-wilmar-says.html
Soybean deliveries of about 7
million metric tons are held up at ports in Brazil, poised to be
this year’s largest exporter, pushing up prices in  China ,  Wilmar
International Ltd. (WIL)  said.  “Everybody is having delays,” Kuok Khoon Hong, chief
executive officer of China’s largest supplier of cooking oils,
said in an interview today in  Singapore , where the company is
based. “That’s why prices in China are very strong, because of
the bottlenecks. About 7 million tons are waiting.”  Crushers in China, the world’s biggest buyer, boosted
purchases from the U.S. this week on concern that a possible
strike in Brazil by dock workers will disrupt shipping,
researcher Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. said today. Before the
stoppage call, Oil World said Feb. 12 that about 100 ships are
bottlenecked at ports and are facing wait times up to 50 days to
load. Futures in Dalian reached a three-month high and prices in
 Chicago  headed for their best run in 10 months.  “China seems to be buying from the U.S. again, and
purchases are being diverted from Brazil because of the port
backlogs,” Joyce Liu, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte, said
by phone from Singapore. “U.S. supplies are already tight.”  Brazilian dock workers plan a six-hour stoppage today to
protest against a proposed regulation allowing privately owned
terminals to hire workers who are not members of OGMO, an
organization that manages the workforce at public ports. Buyers
in China may have ordered 400,000 tons to 500,000 tons after
they returned from last week’s Lunar New Year holiday, said
Monica Tu, a soybean analyst at Shanghai JC.  Futures Rally  Soybeans on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange  climbed as much
as 2.6 percent to 4,918  yuan  ($788) a ton today to the highest
level since Nov. 7. The contract for September delivery closed
at 4,857 yuan, up 1.3 percent, as trading volume jumped almost
four-fold. On the Chicago Board of Trade, futures for delivery
in May rose for a fifth straight day, the longest rally for the
most-active contract since April 30, and were at $14.9175 a
bushel by 5:35 p.m. Singapore time.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday the
nation’s exporters reported selling 130,450 tons of soybeans,
without identifying the importing country. The USDA expects
Brazil’s output to reach a record, while increasing demand cuts
U.S inventories to a nine-year low.  The harvest in  Brazil  will surge 26 percent to a record
83.5 million tons this year, surpassing the crop in the drought-
hit U.S. and making the South American nation the world’s
largest grower and shipper this year, USDA data show.  Brazil may have trouble delivering its record crop as the
government implemented regulations on maximum working hours and
mandatory breaks for truck drivers, Oil World said in a Feb. 12
report. Truck shortages also may boost transportation costs by
as much as 40 percent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  