-- Spanish Shares Offer Value on BBVA Revenue, BNP Says
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-02-22T08:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/spanish-shares-offer-value-on-bbva-revenue-bnp-says.html
Spanish stocks, this year’s worst-
performing developed market, are an attractive investment as
overseas revenue insulates companies such as  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  from the euro-area
recession, BNP Paribas Investment Partners said.  “Of all the markets we’re most overweight on, from a
country point of view, it’s Spain,” said Daniel Hemmant, senior
portfolio manager of European equities at BNP Paribas, which
manages 502 billion euros ($664 billion). “If you look at the
two largest Spanish lenders, they’ve got significant overseas
earnings. We own a number of companies that are listed in Spain,
which are very international in nature and have maybe 10 percent
of revenue coming from Spain.”  Spain’s benchmark  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  declined 1.9 percent this
year through yesterday’s close, the biggest drop among 24
developed markets tracked by Bloomberg, as the country’s
regulator lifted a short-selling ban and Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy denied corruption allegations. That compares with a gain
of 1.9 percent for the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index and a 9.7 percent
rally for  Greece ’s ASE Index.  Valuations on the IBEX 35 have  fallen  to 11.1 times
estimated earnings from 23.5 times in November, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spanish lenders are setting aside provisions ordered by the
government to cover real-estate losses stemming from the
country’s property-market crash. The process has favored larger
banks that can rely on revenue from businesses outside Spain,
Hemmant said.  Bad Loans  “Those two banks in particular generate enough
profitability to be able to write down whatever more bad loans
come through,” Hemmant said at a press briefing in London
yesterday, referring to Santander and BBVA. “It’s just a
question of over what period they’ll do it. We’re a long way
into the provisioning cycle. Optimistically, maybe we saw the
trough last year.”  BBVA earned at least 70 percent of revenue in 2012 from
 markets outside Spain , including  Mexico  and the U.S., according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Santander got 53 percent of sales
from Latin America and 11 percent from the U.K.  In Europe, equities have more room for growth as bank
earnings recover even as gross domestic product drops, according
to Hemmant. The euro region’s economy is forecast to contract
for the first three quarters of 2013, according to projections
from 32 economists compiled by Bloomberg.  The 46 members of the  Stoxx 600 Banks Index (SX7P)  will report a
combined 16.15 euros a share in profit in 2013, after posting
per-share losses of 4.09 euros last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Banks spent the last four to five years writing down the
bad loans and we’re getting to the end of that process,” he
said. “Even if you’re not optimistic about European GDP growth,
the reality is that bank earnings are inevitably going to start
picking up just as provisions normalize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  