-- Swedish Confidence Rises on Optimism Europe Exiting Crisis
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-02-22T09:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/swedish-confidence-rises-on-optimism-europe-exiting-crisis-1-.html
Swedish  consumer confidence  improved
for a second month in February as stock markets rose and the
labor market showed signs of stabilizing, damping speculation of
more interest rate reductions.  The  consumer confidence  index rose to minus 1 from minus
2.9 the previous month, the Stockholm-based National  Institute
of Economic Research  said today. That was in line with a median
estimate in a survey of eight economists. A  manufacturing
confidence  index rose to minus 11 from a revised minus 17,
beating the minus 15 estimate.  There are “rays of light in the Swedish  economy ” even as
growth “is still weaker than normal,” NIER said in a
statement. “Manufacturing confidence and the private service
sector made a positive contribution” to the economic tendency
indicator which rose to 94.7 in February from 89.9, “while the
results from the  construction industry  and the retail trade were
neutral,” the group said.  Most forecasters estimate the economy will revive this year
amid confidence that  Europe  has surfaced from the worst of its
fiscal turmoil. Sweden’s central bank last week left its main
rate unchanged at 1 percent, following four reductions in a year
to support the  export-dependent  economy. The Riksbank’s next
rate decision is on April 16.  “Our call for an April rate cut has become a bit more
uncertain,” said Olle Holmgren, an analyst at SEB AB in
Stockholm, in a client note. “The better sentiment will make
the Riksbank confident that its forecast of better growth in
2013 is on track.”  Krona Climbs  Sweden’s krona strengthened 0.1 percent to 8.4566 per euro
as of 10:50 a.m. in Stockholm. Two-year government note yields
rose two basis points to 1.10 percent.  Sweden ’s central bank last week predicted economic growth
in the Nordic country will pick up to 1.2 percent this year and
2.7 percent in 2014, from 0.9 percent last year. Sweden’s  OMX30
stock index  has risen 8.3 percent this year.  “The survey showed a broad based improvement from low
levels,” Mats Hyden, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said in a
client note. “ Order flows  from the export market have stopped
falling, and the view of order books look somewhat less
negative,” while “in the household sector, a less negative
view of the Swedish economy contributed positively.”  Seasonally adjusted unemployment  held at 8 percent last
month, as the pace of job cuts subsided. Still, a report
yesterday on the euro area’s services and manufacturing
industries indicated Europe’s economy remained in recession at
the start of the year.  “The unexpected decline in euro-zone PMI yesterday is a
reminder that the headwinds from international growth are likely
to continue,” Holmgren said. “Still, growth is likely to
continue to be weaker than the trend which means that
unemployment is likely to rise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  