-- Stocks in Switzerland Advance; Roche, SGS Shares Climb
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-02-22T16:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/swiss-stocks-advance-as-julius-baer-transocean-climb.html
Swiss stocks  advanced, posting their
second consecutive weekly gain, as a better-than-forecast German
business confidence report outweighed a European Commission
forecast that the euro area’s economy will contract in 2013.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s largest maker of cancer
drugs, and  SGS SA (SGSN) , the world’s biggest product inspector, posted
the best performances on the equity benchmark.  Tecan (TECN)  Group AG
dropped the most in four months after UBS AG downgraded the
maker of laboratory equipment.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.7 percent to 7,554.38 at the
close of trading in Zurich, taking its advance this week to 0.7
percent. The benchmark measure has jumped  11 percent  this year
as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise  federal budget  and the
Swiss franc depreciated against the euro. The broader Swiss
Performance Index rose 0.6 percent today.  “We’ve seen enormous gains on stock markets in the past
few months and markets are extremely optimistic,” said Oliver Dettmann, an investment strategist at Wellershoff & Partners
Ltd. in Zurich. “Any slightly positive economic data supports
the positive sentiment. Stocks are still relatively attractively
valued compared with bonds, but it’s not like they’re extremely
cheap on a standalone basis.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 18 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The European Commission predicted that the gross domestic
product of the 17 nations in the euro area will shrink 0.3
percent this year. In November, the Brussels-based executive arm
of the European Union projected growth of 0.1 percent.  German Confidence  German business confidence rose to a 10-month high in
February. The Ifo institute in Munich said its  business-climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 107.4
from 104.3 in January. That was its fourth straight gain.
Economists had predicted confidence would rise to 104.9,
according to the  median of 38 forecasts  in a Bloomberg survey.  The European Central Bank said financial institutions will
repay 61 billion euros ($80 billion) of its three-year loans
next week, half the amount that economists had forecast. The
lenders will return the money on Feb. 27, which is their first
opportunity to do so under the second tranche of the central
bank’s Longer Term Refinancing Operation.  Roche added 1.5 percent to 212.20 Swiss francs. Roche and
ImmunoGen Inc. won U.S. approval for a breast cancer therapy
that’s designed to narrowly target the disease.  SGS climbed 1.6 percent to 2,363 francs, its highest price
since at least October 1989.  Straumann Rises  Straumann Holding AG (STMN)  increased 4.3 percent to 130.40 francs
after Barclays Plc raised its price estimate for the world’s
biggest maker of dental implants by 5.8 percent to 127 francs.  “Straumann is now at a point where it is comfortable with
a dual-brand strategy, but only under the right circumstances in
the right markets,” Alexander Kleban, an analyst at Barclays,
wrote in a report today. “We see this as a net positive as it
is likely to appease investors with significant concerns over
deterioration in the premium market.”  Tecan dropped 2.7 percent to 85.45 francs after UBS
downgraded the stock to neutral from buy.  “Whilst we now believe the valuation discount has been
partially removed, we cannot yet justify lowering our weighted
average cost of capital further to increase our price target and
maintain a buy rating,” Ian Douglas-Pennant, an analyst at UBS,
wrote in a note to clients today.  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  retreated 1.4 percent to 518 francs,
posting the worst performance on the SMI and dropping for a
second day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  