-- U.K. Loses Top Aaa Rating From Moody’s as Growth Weakens
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-02-22T22:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/u-k-loses-top-aaa-rating-from-moody-s-as-growth-outlook-weakens.html
Britain lost its top  credit rating 
by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the continuing
weakness in the nation’s growth outlook and the challenges that
presents to the government’s fiscal consolidation program.  The rating on the U.K. was lowered one level to Aa1 from
Aaa and the outlook on the nation’s debt changed to stable,
Moody’s said in a statement today. With the U.K.’s high and
rising debt burden, a deterioration in the government’s balance
sheet is unlikely to be reversed before 2016, Moody’s said in
the statement.  The cut will increase political pressure on Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne , with the opposition  Labour Party 
calling on him to scale back his fiscal squeeze as the economic
recovery struggles to gain traction. Still, investors often
ignore such actions, evidenced by the drop in French 10-year
bond yields following a downgrade last year and a rally in
Treasuries after the U.S. lost its top rating at  Standard &
Poor’s  in 2011.  “Tonight we have a stark reminder of the debt problems
facing our country -- and the clearest possible warning to
anyone who thinks we can run away from dealing with those
problems,” Osborne said in a statement in  London . “Far from
weakening our resolve to deliver our economic recovery plan,
this decision redoubles it.”  Pound Slumps  The pound slumped after the downgrade in the last half hour
of trading in  New York , dropping 0.6 percent to $1.5163.
Sterling has depreciated 5.6 percent this year, the second-worst
performer after the yen among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  “They have drawn a line in the sand that if we don’t put
forth a formidable plan we don’t deserve a triple-A rating,”
said  Joseph Balestrino , senior fixed-income strategist for
Pittsburgh-based Federated Investors Inc., which oversees $51.4
billion of assets.  Britain’s debt as a percentage of gross domestic product
will climb to 98 percent next year from 90 percent last year and
95.4 percent in 2013, the European Commission said in its winter
forecast today.  Osborne’s austerity policies will squeeze the  budget deficit 
to 6 percent next year from 10.2 percent in 2010, when his
Conservatives took over in an unprecendented coalition with the
Liberal Democrats, according to the predictions by the
commission.  ‘Shock Absorption’  “Because of the combination of weak growth outlook,
substantial fiscal challenges, high and rising debt burden, and
the deterioration in shock absorption capacity, we see that the
credit worthiness of the U.K. has deteriorated to a level that
is more commensurate with Aa1 rating,”  Sarah Carlson , a senior
credit officer at Moody’s in London, said in a telephone
interview.  Osborne said in his autumn statement on Dec. 5 that he’s no
longer likely to meet his target to begin cutting the burden of
government debt in 2015-16 after his fiscal watchdog cut its
growth forecasts. Standard & Poor’s put the U.K.’s rating on a
negative outlook a week later.  Fitch Ratings  Fitch Ratings  said on the day of the budget that missing
the debt target “weakens the credibility of the U.K.’s fiscal
framework.” It will conduct a further formal review of the
rating in 2013 incorporating the budget, due March 20. Fitch
lowered its outlook on the U.K. to negative from outlook in
March 2012. Moody’s lowered its outlook the previous month.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by S&P. That’s worse than the
longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more than 300
changes since 1974.  “Ultimately it’s a fairly minor action and shouldn’t
result in a massive bond market response,” said  Eric Lascelles ,
chief economist for RBC Asset Management in Toronto. “This is
an era where developed countries are being downgraded on a
regular  basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  