-- New York Flight Delays of 90 Minutes Seen From FAA Cuts
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-23T03:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/u-s-budget-cuts-will-delay-flights-90-minutes-lahood.html
Flights at major airports in cities
including New York, Chicago and  San Francisco  could be delayed
as long as 90 minutes if automatic U.S. spending cuts take
effect on March 1, Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  will furlough air-
traffic controllers beginning April 1, LaHood said yesterday.
More than 230 towers at smaller airports, including some with
regional-airline flights, may be closed, according to a  posting 
on the FAA website.  LaHood outlined the consequences of budget cuts that could
inconvenience millions of travelers at a White House briefing
where he criticized congressional Republicans who are in a
showdown with President  Barack Obama  and Democrats over reducing
the deficit. Without at least a stop-gap agreement by March 1,
$1.2 trillion in across-the-board spending cuts, known as
sequestration, will take effect at U.S. agencies.  “I think Republicans need to step up here,” said LaHood,
a former Republican congressman from  Illinois . “This requires
compromise. This requires Republicans stepping forward with some
ideas about how to keep essential services of government running
at the level that people have been accustomed to.”  Under the sequestration plan, half the reductions would
come from defense and half from other agencies. In addition to
air-traffic restrictions, cuts may result in delays in
production permits for oil and gas drilling, shorter opening
hours at national parks, and the closing of meat plants the
Agriculture Department wouldn’t be able to inspect.  Exaggerating Impact  The  federal budget  reductions would threaten recovering
state economies, Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin said.  “We’re in an economic recovery, let’s not blow it,”
Shumlin, chairman of the Democratic Governor’s Association, said
at a news conference in  Washington .  LaHood stressed potential hardships for airlines and their
passengers.  “It’s going to be very painful for the flying public,”
LaHood said. “This is going to have an enormous impact.”  LaHood is creating needless alarm when it’s not clear that
furloughs will be necessary, House Transportation Committee
Chairman Bill Shuster of  Pennsylvania  and other senior
congressional Republicans said in a statement.  “Prematurely outlining the potential impacts before
identifying other savings is not helpful,” according to the
statement from Shuster, New Jersey Representative Frank LoBiondo
and South Dakota Senator  John Thune .  Potential Disruptions  “Today’s exaggerations are not backed up by any real
financial data,” the lawmakers said. “The agency is well
positioned to absorb spending reductions without compromising
the safety or efficiency of the National Airspace System.”  LaHood said his staff was providing information on the
agency’s projections to Airlines for America, the Washington-
based trade group representing carriers including  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)   “Once airlines see the potential impact of these
furloughs, we expect that they will change their schedules and
cancel flights,” LaHood said.  The department started talks yesterday with air-traffic
controller unions about plans for reducing operating hours at
some towers and closing others, LaHood said.  “Safety is always the top priority of air traffic
controllers, but the reality is this -- safety will be preserved
at the expense of operations across the country,” Paul Rinaldi,
president of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association
union, said in a statement.  ‘Airports Next’  “Once towers are closed, the airports they serve may be
next,” Rinaldi said. “We believe the delay estimates provided
by the FAA are conservative and the potential for disruptions
could be much higher.”  The FAA could eliminate overnight shifts at 72 towers and
regional radar rooms, according to  a list  posted by the agency.
Locations on that roster include the main airport in
California’s capital, Sacramento; DuPage Airport in West
Chicago, Illinois; and Boeing Field/King County International in
Seattle.  Fifty-four of the 72 already met FAA guidelines for closing
during those periods because of low traffic, according to agency
data compiled by Bloomberg. The FAA has been thwarted in
previous attempts to close towers and radar rooms at little-used
airports by pressure from members of Congress,  Bloomberg News 
reported last year.  Ripple Effect  The tower at Tri-State Milton J. Ferguson Field in
Huntington,  West Virginia , was among the air-traffic facilities
listed by the FAA for possible closing. The tower is staffed
around the clock while having too few flights to be open at
night under U.S. guidelines.  LaHood said the government won’t compromise safety as
cutbacks take effect. Having fewer controllers on duty at major
airports will ripple across the country, forcing airlines to
adjust schedules, he said.  “It’s not possible to continue the same schedules with
less people,” he said.  The FAA, the agency with the most employees at the
Transportation Department, will absorb about $600 million of the
department’s $1 billion automatic cut, LaHood said.  Passengers in smaller U.S. cities will suffer from shift
reductions or even airport closings,  Roger Cohen , president of
the Regional Airline Association, said in a statement. Regional
carriers provide the only service to 470 U.S. airports, and
about half of all U.S. flights, Cohen said.  Playing ‘Chicken’  “The government is playing an irresponsible game of
chicken, with no winners,” Cohen said. “The traveling and
shipping public will be the losers.”  Spokesmen Trebor Banstetter of Delta, Mike Trevino of  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  and Christen David of  United Airlines 
referred calls seeking comment to Airlines for America.  “Air transportation is a key driver of our economy, and
should not be used as a political football,” Airlines for
America said in a statement. Airlines and the FAA “will be
meeting soon to plan for any potential cutbacks,” it said.  One of the airports that may be scheduled to close
overnight, Manchester-Boston Regional Airport in  New Hampshire ,
has 17 scheduled  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  flights a day. It’s too
early to assess the impact at individual airports, said Brandy King, a spokeswoman for the Dallas-based company.  “We are currently working to determine the government’s
contingency plans and, as you know, federal leaders may
ultimately avoid sequestration altogether,” King said.  United, Delta and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  also serve
Manchester with daily flights.  Uncontrolled Airfield  Golden Triangle Regional Airport in Columbus,  Mississippi ,
has three daily flights by Delta Connection, a regional partner
for Atlanta-based Delta, said Mike Hainsey, the facility’s
executive director.  The flights would continue if the control tower is closed
in what’s known as an “uncontrolled airfield,” he said. Pilots
operating without a control tower use the airport’s designated
radio frequency to announce their movements on the ground and in
the air, and are on their own to stay alert for other planes.  “We understand budget issues, but we’re concerned about
the impact,” Hainsey said. “The control tower gives us an
additional margin of safety.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  