-- U.S. Joins Armstrong Ex-Teammate’s False Claims Lawsuit
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-23T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/u-s-joins-armstrong-ex-teammate-landis-in-whistleblower-suit.html
The U.S. joined a lawsuit against
 Lance Armstrong  brought by ex-teammate Floyd Landis that accuses
the former champion cyclist of defrauding the government by
using banned drugs while riding for the U.S.  Postal Service .  The Justice Department yesterday joined the False Claims
Act lawsuit. Landis alleges that Armstrong, his team manager
 Johan Bruyneel  and team owner Tailwind Sports Corp. defrauded
the U.S. government based on years of using banned substances in
violation of the U.S. Postal Service’s sponsorship agreements.  “The Postal Service contract with Tailwind required the
team to enter cycling races, wear the Postal Service logo, and
follow the rules banning performance enhancing substances --
rules that Lance Armstrong has now admitted he violated,”
Stuart F. Delery, chief of the  Justice Department ’s civil
division, said in a statement.  The government joins only about 25 percent of privately
filed whistle-blower cases, and when it does, a recovery is
likely, said John Phillips of Phillips & Cohen LLP in
 Washington , who has litigated False Claims Act cases since 1986.
U.S. participation adds credibility because it means the
allegations survived a thorough vetting by the department and
shows “they believe in the case and want to pursue it.”  Record Recoveries  The Justice Department recovered a record $3.3 billion in
suits filed by whistle-blowers in the 2012 fiscal year, the
department said in December. When they win a False Claims Act
case the U.S. joined, whistle-blowers can get from 15 percent to
25 percent of the recovery, which can be three times the
government’s damages.  The U.S. Postal Service paid $31 million in sponsorship
fees to Armstrong’s team between 2001 and 2004, the Justice
Department said. Armstrong, who was stripped of his seven  Tour
de France  titles last year, won the cycling race in each of
those years. He was the team’s lead rider from 1999 to 2004.  Armstrong’s lawyers had been in talks with the Justice
Department over a possible settlement deal, his attorney, Robert Luskin, said yesterday. Those negotiations fell apart.  “Lance and his representatives worked constructively over
these last weeks with federal lawyers to resolve this case
fairly, but those talks failed because we disagree about whether
the Postal Service was damaged,” Luskin of Patton Boggs LLP in
Washington, said in a statement. “The Postal Service’s own
studies show that the service benefited tremendously from its
sponsorship -- benefits totaling more than $100 million.”  ‘Banned Substances’  The lawsuit, unsealed yesterday, alleges Armstrong and his
teammates knowingly caused U.S. Postal Service team agreements
to be violated by “regularly employing banned substances to
enhance their performance,” the Justice Department said in its
release.  A record seven-time Tour de France winner from 1999 to
2005, Armstrong was stripped of the titles by the U.S. Anti-
Doping Agency in August. The cyclist acknowledged in a
television interview with  Oprah Winfrey  last month that he used
a “cocktail” of testosterone, erythropoietin and blood
transfusions throughout his career.  A compilation of the 41-year-old American cyclist’s
earnings by  Bloomberg News , using public documents, interviews,
court testimony and marketers’ comments, showed part of
Armstrong’s business ventures and profit centers. Armstrong made
more than $218 million during a career he told Winfrey was “one
big lie.”  Prize Money  Armstrong also faces a lawsuit seeking the return of $12
million in prize money a promoter paid the cyclist for three of
those championships.  SCA Promotions Inc. paid Armstrong the bonuses after he won
the 2002, 2003 and 2004 bicycle races, believing his
representations that he had won each contest fairly, according
to a complaint filed Feb. 7 in Texas state court in  Dallas . SCA
is suing to get the money back. Armstrong had previously denied
doping allegations under oath, according to SCA’s complaint.  The department said it is only joining Landis’s lawsuit
against Armstrong, Buryneel and Tailwind. It won’t intervene
against other defendants named by Landis.  Landis in August admitted defrauding donors to his legal
defense fund by falsely claiming that he hadn’t used
performance-enhancing drugs during his professional cycling
career as part of a deferred prosecution agreement filed in
federal court in  San Diego .  Wire Fraud  He’s charged with one count of wire fraud for which he
could be sentenced to as much as 20 years in prison under the
terms the agreement with the Justice Department. Federal
prosecutors could continue prosecuting Landis if he fails to
make restitution of more than $475,000.  “I had come to a point in my life where I decided that I
had to tell the truth for the sake of my conscience,” Landis
said yesterday in a statement issued by his lawyer, Paul Scott.
“I’m still dealing with the consequences of that decision to
this day but it’s better than living a lie.”  The case is U.S., ex rel.  Floyd Landis  v. Tailwind Sports
Corp., 10-cv-00976, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  