-- U.S. Approves $6.8 Trillion in Pension Funds for Cleared Swaps
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-02-22T15:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/u-s-approves-6-8-trillion-in-pension-funds-for-cleared-swaps.html
The U.S. Labor Department said $6.8
trillion in pension funds can be invested in cleared swap
transactions as long as certain conditions are met.  The market for privately negotiated derivatives, with $639
trillion in notional value as of June, is being regulated for
the first time in its three-decade history, requiring most
trades to be backed by a clearinghouse where banks and brokers
act as intermediaries. The Labor Department already allows
pension funds to be invested in futures contracts under similar
guidelines, said Supurna VedBrat, co-head of market structure
and electronic trading at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   “We needed clarity that similar exemptive relief was
available for swap clearing,” VedBrat said in a telephone
interview. With swap clearing becoming mandatory starting March
11 under Commodity Futures Trading Commission rules, getting
clarity before then “has been very helpful to the industry,”
said VedBrat, whose firm is the world’s largest money manager,
overseeing $3.79 trillion in assets.  The role of clearing was expanded by the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act based on the track record of clearinghouses during the
credit crisis. The idea took hold after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. failed in 2008 and LCH.Clearnet Ltd., the world’s largest
interest-rate swap clearinghouse, settled $9 trillion of the
derivatives held by the New York-based investment bank.  Two Weeks  LCH needed only about two weeks and 35 percent of the
collateral Lehman had posted, Dan Maguire, head of U.S.
operations at LCH’s SwapClear service, said last year.  Clearinghouses cut risk by collecting collateral known as
initial margin at the start of each transaction, monitoring
daily price moves and making traders put up more cash as losses
occur. Traders have to deal through clearing members, typically
the biggest banks and brokerages. Unlike privately traded, or
over-the-counter derivatives, prices for cleared trades are set
every day and publicly disclosed.  Pension investments are governed by the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act, or Erisa. It sets fiduciary standards that
plan managers must follow, among other requirements.  The Labor Department  said  on its website Feb. 7 that
default procedures and other clearinghouse rules don’t breach
Erisa fiduciary standards if they are spelled out in preliminary
clearing agreements. Margin payments don’t constitute plan
assets and clearing members don’t have a fiduciary duty while
closing out a pension-fund customer account that has defaulted,
the Labor Department also said.  Added Protection  The conclusion is important because it means an asset
manager such as BlackRock won’t have to tailor investment
strategies for funds that contain money governed by Erisa and
those that don’t, VedBrat said. It also allows access to the
added protection of clearing to pension investments, she said.  “We wanted to make sure this option was available to Erisa
funds just as it’s available to our other clients,” VedBrat
said.  The market for swaps, in which investors trade payments for
as long as 30 years, is measured by notional value to calculate
money flows and doesn’t represent cash that has changed hands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 