-- UBS to Trade Equity Swaps in China in Structured-Product Push
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-02-22T03:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/ubs-to-trade-equity-swaps-in-china-in-structured-product-push.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  won regulatory approval in
 China  to trade derivatives involving local equities, paving the
way for the bank to offer onshore structured products directly
tracking stocks.  Chinese regulators last month decided to allow UBS to trade
total return swaps, Thomas Fang, the bank’s managing director
for equities derivatives sales for  Asia , said in a phone
interview. The bank will use the derivatives to create
structured products tied to local stocks, with plans to boost
the size of its staff in the country for the business, Fang
said. The China Securities Regulatory Commission’s press office
didn’t immediately respond to a faxed request for confirmation.  Authorities in the world’s second-biggest economy are
seeking to develop more sophisticated financial instruments,
including structured investments known as wealth management
products. The country announced a plan in December to start
trial over-the-counter trading for domestic brokerages. The
pilot program can include structured products, according to
lawyers involved in the market.  In an equity swap agreement, one party pays the counterpart
fixed or floating rates in exchange for gains in the reference
asset. The derivatives can be used to create products that
leverage returns on underlying stocks, Hong Kong-based Fang
said.  UBS and other foreign banks in China have sold structured
notes and similar products tied to overseas assets to local
banks that repackage them into their own wealth management
investments. For its own products, the Swiss bank will initially
offer structured trusts or funds, Fang said.  Outstanding wealth management products issued by Chinese
banks may have surged to 13 trillion  yuan  ($2.1 trillion) by the
end of 2012 from 8.5 trillion yuan a year earlier,  Fitch Ratings 
estimated in a December report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  