-- Tullow Drills for Ethiopia’s First Oil in Kenyan Extension
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-02-22T17:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/tullow-drills-for-ethiopia-s-first-oil-in-kenyan-extension-1-.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K. explorer
that found Kenya’s first crude a year ago, is about to find out
whether the resources extend into neighboring  Ethiopia , a nation
dependent on agriculture that’s yet to discover any petroleum.  Tullow,  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI)  and  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  plan to
complete their Sabisa well in western Ethiopia’s  South Omo Block 
this quarter.  “The first discovery would be big news,” said Martin Mbogo, Tullow’s manager for Kenya, where its Ngamia well struck
oil in March. “That would be historical for Ethiopia.”  Tullow, a London-based explorer, is targeting East Africa’s
 Tertiary Rift , a geological fault that’s yielded oil in Uganda
as well as Kenya. For the company, an Ethiopian find may prove a
new oil province. For the country, evidence of crude could help
the government curb energy imports and diversify an economy that
relied on coffee for about a quarter of export earnings in 2011.  “We are importing every drop of oil and gas,” Ethiopian
Mines Minister Sinknesh Ejigu said last week. “We want to
change this game.”  Licenses won by Tullow and Africa Oil in  Kenya  and Ethiopia
cover an area almost as large as the North Sea. Only 11 wells
have been drilled there so far, compared with more than 2,400
wells in the sea. While gas has been found in eastern Ethiopia,
the partners are focusing on the western Omo region in the hope
it will prove the extension of the petroleum system from Kenya.  ‘Huge Well’  “The structure is almost identical to what we see at
Ngamia,” Africa Oil Vice President of Business Development
James Phillips said in an interview in Addis Ababa. “This is a
huge well for Ethiopia. This is really a key well.”  The country needs energy to support economic growth. The
East African nation still  ranks  211th in terms of gross domestic
product per capita, behind  Mozambique  and ahead of  Togo ,
according to Central Intelligence Agency data.  “A hit at the well would effectively bookend the string-
of-pearls play from Ngamia to Sabisa,” Brian Gallagher, a
London-based analyst at Investec Bank Plc, wrote in a report
this month. “Sabisa represents a trigger well with the
potential to open up a new basin.”  The government has a right to 10 percent of the South Omo
Block should the companies discover oil, Gallagher said. The
Sabisa well is targeting about 140 million barrels of oil
resources, he said, citing Tullow estimates.  Africa Oil’s Phillips, who served as chief operating
officer until Sept. 9, declined to comment on the progress of
the well, citing disclosure regulations.  The Omo region is a “strange” area, he said. “A place
like Omo is frankly the end of the Earth. It hasn’t had any
attention from oil and gas exploration ever.”  Omo Wetlands  The project partners are in talks with Kenya and Ethiopia
to allow their contractor,  China ’s BGP Inc., to conduct seismic
studies in the border area covering the Omo River wetlands. The
border is currently closed and it takes days to transport
equipment on dirt roads to cross at the nearest checkpoint.  “It could be one of most prospective, interesting areas,”
Phillips said. “It’s going to be a tricky area to work,” which
is similar to the Mississippi River delta in  Louisiana .  The Kenya-Ethiopia frontier basin may hold as much as 10
billion barrels of oil and gas resources, Nomura Holdings Inc.
said in a January note. Tullow and Africa Oil plan to drill
about 11 wells in the area this year, of which three will be in
Ethiopia.  The area is “10 times bigger than Tullow’s Uganda
acreage,” Nomura said. The South Omo block is “one of the
golden blocks of the Tertiary Rift,” the brokerage said.  Tullow advanced 1.8 percent to 1,241 pence in London
trading, while Africa Oil climbed 1.7 percent to 47.80 kronor in
 Stockholm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  