-- Hungary Risks Foreign Bond Dominance Unraveling, Fidelity Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-22T14:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/hungary-risks-foreign-bond-dominance-unraveling-fidelity-says.html
Hungary  risks a “mass exit” from
its debt and currency markets because of the danger that foreign
investors’ dominant bond position may start unraveling,  Fidelity
Investments  said.  Hungary’s government may need to reconsider its decision to
try to finance itself without International Monetary Fund aid as
the Cabinet struggles to get the economy out of recession
without accepting the IMF’s policy prescriptions, said R. Aran
Gordon, who helps manage $1.2 billion in emerging-market debt at
Fidelity Worldwide Investment in  London .  “One fact that is somewhat concerning is that, of
Hungary’s local debt, 46 percent is owned by foreign
investors,” Gordon said in an interview in Budapest late
yesterday. “Should things unravel further, and local debt
becomes less attractive, therein lies a potential problem
because of the potential for a mass exit.”  International investors  held  4.85 trillion forint ($21.8
billion) in forint-denominated bonds and bills as of today,
compared with a record 5.08 trillion forint at the end of last
year, according to data from the Debt Management Agency on
Bloomberg. The forint was little changed at 292.78 per euro by
3:17 p.m. in Budapest, having weakened 0.5 percent so far this
year after an 8.1 percent rally in 2012.  Yields on Hungary’s 10-year forint-denominated bonds fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.244 percent.
The yield fell to a seven-year low of 5.99 percent on Jan. 3.,
compared with 10.8 percent a year earlier.  Fidelity is “underweight” on Hungary’s debt and “short
to neutral” on the forint, Gordon said. Fidelity has also moved
to underweight from overweight on  Poland , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  