-- Urbi Leads Mexican Homebuilder Stock Plunge on Fitch Warning
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-22T23:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/urbi-leads-mexican-homebuilder-stock-plunge-on-fitch-warning-1-.html
Mexican  homebuilders   Urbi (URBI*) 
Desarrollos Urbanos SAB and Corp.  Geo (GEOB)  SAB plunged after  Fitch
Ratings  said it may cut their credit ratings, adding to concern
the companies will struggle to adapt to new housing policies.  Urbi, the nation’s third-largest publicly traded
homebuilder, tumbled 17 percent to 4.14 pesos at the close in
Mexico City, the lowest closing price since the shares started
trading in 2004. Geo, the second-biggest homebuilder, fell 13
percent to 10.06 pesos, the lowest since November 2008.  Fitch placed the ratings of Urbi and Geo along with their
larger competitor Desarrolladora Homex SAB on rating-watch
negative today, citing pressure on cash flows, an increase in
lending for the purchase of used homes and a lack of clarity on
government support for the industry. Mexicali-based Urbi has a
Fitch  rating  of B, five levels below investment grade.  “Cash-flow pressure during 2013 could exacerbate their
needs to access capital markets during a period in which
investor sentiment toward the sector has waned,” Jose Vertiz, a
Fitch director, wrote in the report. “Unless policies are
developed in the near future that will help these companies
lower their inventory levels and sell their unusable land,
rating downgrades are likely.”  Mexico City-based Geo and Culiacan-based Homex are rated
BB- by Fitch, three levels below investment grade. Homex shares
fell 4 percent to 24.77 pesos.  Land Reserves  Prices on Urbi’s dollar-denominated bonds due 2022 fell to
81 cents on the dollar, sending yields up 0.48 percentage point
to 13.46 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Declines like these tell you that there’s little
confidence in these companies,”  Gerardo Copca , an analyst at
Metanalisis SA, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  Homebuilders have struggled to adapt to industry changes as
the Mexican government shifted housing subsidies to prioritize
more capital-intensive apartment construction. It has also de-
emphasized subsidies for construction in the countryside, where
homebuilders have many properties.  The companies have been saddled with land reserves built
before the government’s new policy was implemented, Fitch said
in the report.  “The new housing plan from the government might make some
of these reserves less usable in the short term, so their value
should be somewhat different from what is presently in the books
of the company,” said  Carlos Hermosillo , an analyst with Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB in Mexico City. “That’s a cause of
concern for the market.”  Exceed Limits  Investors also are fretting that fourth-quarter results due
to be release next week will be disappointing, Hermosillo said.  Urbi investors relations office Antonio Jorge said in a
Feb. 13 telephone interview that the builder had renegotiated or
gotten waivers on bank debt covenants it was on the verge of
violating “since it was probable that the company was going to
exceed these limits in the context of a weaker-than-expected
quarter.”  Urbi has the lowest weighting on the benchmark IPC index of
35 Mexican stocks. Geo and Homex are the second- and third-
lowest weighted on the gauge, respectively.  Javier Gayol, an analyst with Corporativo GBM SAB, said the
risk of getting replaced on the index is adding to the stocks’
woes since membership is partially determined by market
capitalization.  “Today’s drop is a bad sign,” he said. “If these share
drops persist, they’ll be out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Verbrigghe in  New York  at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  