-- Mayan Nobel Menchu Says She Talked to Chavez Spirits
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-02-22T19:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/venezuela-says-chavez-s-health-status-is-not-favorable-.html
Nobel Prize winner Rigoberta Menchu
said she has been in contact with President  Hugo Chavez ’s spirit
and that the ailing Venezuelan leader’s ancestors are protecting
him in his fight against cancer.  “We’ve been in communication with Chavez’s spirit, and we
have very positive signs,” Menchu, a Guatemalan who won the
Nobel Peace Price in 1992, said in Caracas during a national TV
and radio broadcast. “We’ve spoken with his ancestors, and they
are protecting him.”  Chavez, who is being treated for an undisclosed type of
cancer at a Caracas military hospital, is continuing to have
breathing troubles that have worsened, Foreign Minister Elias Jaua said today in comments made in  Equatorial Guinea  and
broadcast on state television. The former paratrooper isn’t
suffering significant adverse effects from the treatment of his
“base illness,” Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said
yesterday, adding that he was in contact with his family and
political team.  “Menchu has brought blessings, energy, spiritual strength
and love from the Mayan people to our Comandante,” Vice-
President  Nicolas Maduro  said as he introduced Menchu before she
spoke. “When she found out that Chavez was here in  Venezuela ,
she immediately came.”  ‘Base Illness’  Chavez returned to Caracas on Feb. 18 after more than two
months of treatment in Cuba. Apart from photos released last
week and Twitter messages sent by Chavez upon arrival, he hasn’t
been seen or heard from since traveling to  Havana  for his fourth
cancer surgery in 20 months. No images of his arrival or
hospital stay have been released by the government.  “The respiratory insufficiency that arose during the post-
operative phase persists, and the tendency hasn’t been
favorable,” Villegas said yesterday. “The treatment for the
base illness is continuing without any significant adverse
effects.”  He said on Feb. 15 that Chavez is suffering from a
“delicate” respiratory infection that has left him speechless
and requires the use of a tracheal tube.  “Chavez is maintaining his faith in Christ,” Villegas
said. “He has the maximum will to live and discipline in his
health treatment.”  ‘Difficult Moments’  Chavez has endured the “most difficult moments of his
life,” Bolivian President  Evo Morales , who didn’t get to see
his close ally during a visit to Caracas this week, said Nov. 20
in  New York .  “Yesterday they announced a respiratory complication, and
even though the respiratory deficit has increased in the last
hours, the continued treatment for the base illness is being
positively tolerated by the patient,” Jaua said today, adding
that Maduro would not attend the Africa - South American Summit
in Equatorial Guinea this weekend because he had work to do with
Chavez in Venezuela.  Chavez’s deteriorating health triggered a 32 percent rally
on Venezuelan dollar bonds over the past year as investors
boosted bets he’ll be unable to complete another term, opening
the door for a new regime that will introduce more market-
friendly policies.  Venezuela’s bonds had the third-best performance among
 emerging markets  in the past 12 months, after the  Ivory Coast 
and Belize, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s EMBIG index.  “I’m here as an ancient Mayan ancestral guide,” Menchu, a
campaigner for indigenous rights, said, adding that she would
send Chavez a Mayan calendar. “I’m sure that Chavez has already
received the cosmic energy and strength from Mother Earth.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  