-- Vietnam Premier Approves 2013-2020 Economic Restructuring Plan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-22T11:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/vietnam-premier-approves-2013-2020-economic-restructuring-plan.html
Vietnam ’s Prime Minister Nguyen Tan
Dung approved a master plan to restructure the economy, overhaul
banks and speed up share sales of state-owned companies to
bolster growth that is at its lowest since 1999.  Authorities will focus on resolving bad debt and  cross-
ownership in banks and boost transparency in the next two years,
according to a statement posted on the government’s website late
yesterday. They will revamp state-owned companies to focus on
core business and accelerate share sales, it said.  Vietnam is struggling to boost an  economy  that expanded at
the slowest pace in 13 years in 2012 as a slump in bank lending
crimped domestic demand, adding pressure on the government to
revamp the financial system.  Growth has slowed due to falling
productivity linked to inefficiencies in state-owned companies,
banks and public investments, the  World Bank  said in December.  The master plan, to be implemented through 2020, aims to
enhance the country’s competitiveness and growth, according to
the statement. The government will pursue “cautious, flexible”
monetary policies to curb inflation, maintain  macroeconomic
stability and ensure reasonable growth, it said.  The government has forecast 5.5 percent growth this year,
and the pace could be faster, central bank Governor Nguyen Van
Binh said in an interview with Thoi Bao Kinh Te Saigon, or
Saigon Times, yesterday. The monetary authority may consider
interest-rate cuts to spur expansion if price gains are
contained, he said.  “If year-end  inflation  is likely to meet our 6 percent
target, the central bank will consider cutting  interest rates ,”
Binh said according to a separate transcript posted on the
government website.  The central bank will propose to the prime minister a plan
for a debt asset management company with guidance from the
Politburo, Binh said. The monetary authority aims to keep the
dong stable without fixing the rate, he told the Saigon Times.
Any adjustments to the dollar-dong  exchange rate  would be no
more than 3 percent over the course of the year, the paper said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net 
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  