-- Walker Says Trim Entitlement Plans to Cut Deficit (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-02-22T21:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/walker-says-trim-entitlement-plans-to-cut-deficit-transcript-.html
Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker 
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that Congress
should reduce the budget deficit by paring back spending on
Social Security and Medicare instead of relying on across-the-
board spending cuts scheduled to begin on March 1.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Wisconsin Governor Scott
Walker, who’s also the vice chairman of the  Republican Governors
Association . Governor, thank you for being with us.  SCOTT WALKER: Good to be back.  HUNT: The budget sequester takes place in less than a week.
What’s the impact on Wisconsin?  WALKER: It’s significant in every state, but us being a
state that doesn’t have a whole lot of military bases or other
functions like that, it doesn’t have quite the impact that, say,
a  Virginia , just across the Potomac here, would be. But it’s
significant.  Obviously, we’re concerned, but we’re also concerned about
any alternative to that might have a negative impact on not just
our nation, but particularly my state’s economy, and so we’re
watching very closely.  HUNT: What would you like to see Congress do instead of the
sequester? Should they -- should any package include, say,
Medicare cuts or  Social Security  or more revenue?  WALKER: Well, I think, long term, there’s got to be some
sort of entitlement reform. It’s what we’re talking about in our
states. Long term, if there’s going to be meaningful deficit
reduction, you’ve got to tackle in some way reforms in our
entitlements. We’ve already had -  HUNT: If you did that, would you be willing to go along
with any more revenues, too?  WALKER: Well, I mean, they already had a big push on it.
One of my concerns -- and we saw what happened already -- that
the Wall Street Journal just last week was talking about
spending being down because of the payroll tax increase. I’m
very concerned -- I mentioned it to the president and others --
even in December that anything that takes more money out of the
economy could have a negative impact on revenues.  HUNT: So no revenues, in other words?  WALKER: Yeah, I just -- I get long term why that’s part of
the discussion, but in the short term, we’re still having a
fragile recovery.  HUNT: Well, let me get that right, that you don’t want any
revenues in the short term, but maybe in the long term as part
of a package that included entitlements?  WALKER: Well, we look at it all. But I think the biggest
concern right now is do no harm. We’ve got a slow, but steady
improvement in the economy. We see it in my state and other
states. The last thing we need is to slow that down, to put a
wet blanket on it.  HUNT: So maybe postpone any sequesters for a couple years?  WALKER: Oh, I think you -- you’ve still got to start
tackling some of these entitlement reforms now. There’s no doubt
about that. I don’t think that has a negative impact on the
economy. Politically, it may be a challenge for some folks in
this town, but it’s something that has to be done.  HUNT: Governor, you have talked about the need for
Republicans to be more relevant. Now, we know what that means on
the state level, with you and other Republican governors. What
does it mean in  Washington ? What should the Washington -- the
Republicans here in Washington do to be more relevant? Is it
P.R. or is it substance?  WALKER: Well, I think in talking about things. Well, one,
they’ve got to stay focused on issues that are -- that are
relevant. But I think even when they talk about things like the
sequester, even using terms like that, the fiscal cliff, the
debt ceiling, all those things are things that are a big deal
here in our nation’s capital, but when I talk to moms and dads
and grandmas and grandpas across the country, particularly in my
state, that’s not what they’re talking about.  To me, when you talk about entitlement reform, particularly
things that affect some of the big issues out there, people say,
oh, politically, there’s damage to that, I say, I don’t believe
that, because what I know with my parents, with their grandkids,
my two sons and my two nieces, what do most grandparents care
the most about? It’s not Social Security. It’s not Medicare or
Medicaid. It’s their grandchildren.  HUNT: Are there any policy changes you’d like to see from
congressional Republicans that they -- any new ideas?  WALKER: Well, I think the other big thing that needs to be
talked about -- we talk a lot about frugality. Obviously, the
fiscal problems in this state -- or in this country are
tremendous, but I think one of the challenges -- we don’t talk
enough about growth.  What positive vision, what optimistic vision do we have
that’s going to help the country grow, particularly when it
comes to entrepreneurs? When we talk about new growth, new
start-ups, expanding businesses, not big corporations, but
companies, entrepreneurs like those that we’ve had generations
ago, what is going to happen that’s going to change to make it
easier for them to create jobs -  HUNT: Does that suggest more tax cuts?  WALKER: Well, I think tax cuts are a part of it. I think
streamlining the regulatory process so what we enforce is about
common sense, not about excessive bureaucratic red tape. I
certainly see it in the EPA, but we see it in other federal
agencies.  For a lot of entrepreneurs, a lot of young people starting
out with new big, bold ideas, one of their biggest challenges
isn’t just the  tax code , because a lot of them don’t have a
taxable liability for years. It’s complying with all the
regulations at the state, the local, and certainly at the
federal level. Make it easier for people to be entrepreneurs,
we’d be better off, and that’s where the net new jobs are going
to come from.  HUNT: Governor, you talked about entitlements a moment ago,
which are the fastest-growing part of the  federal budget . On the
other hand, discretionary domestic spending is now at the lowest
levels, the percentage of the economy, since the Eisenhower
administration. Have we cut enough out of discretionary? And
should we stop cutting that and focus on the others?  WALKER: Well, I still think it’s a big area. When I did our
reforms, you know, two years ago in my state government, I had
about a $3.6 billion  budget deficit . We knew that the vast --the
majority of our budget was aid to local governments, so it’s not
apples-to-apples, but it’s a similar scenario to what we face
here.  HUNT: Should we still be cutting health research or
education or law enforcement or  Border Patrol ?  WALKER: Well, that’s -- I guess that’s where I’m getting.
My point is that the entitlements are really a big area.  HUNT: I see.  WALKER: You’ve got to slow that down. You can keep, you
know, working on the edges, but in the end, if you don’t address
these big issues, you’re going to have less and less available
for these other areas, and they really aren’t the driving force.
They aren’t the virus that eats up more and more on the budget.  HUNT: So you should not go after the -- not go after
discretionary, but go after entitlements? Is that a fair
summation?  WALKER: Well, yeah, I mean, I think there’s always room to
look at -- and I found it in state governments, the same thing’s
true in the federal government -- there’s always room to look at
any level of federal  government spending , because I think
there’s plenty examples we can find of waste in the federal
government. But that alone isn’t going to be enough to get our
nation back on good fiscal standing. You’ve got to look at the
big issues on top of it.  HUNT: Governor, you mentioned Medicaid a moment ago. As you
know, a number of your Republican colleagues, Governor Scott in
 Florida , Governor Kasich in  Ohio , Governor Snyder in  Michigan ,
and others have decided even though they oppose Obamacare to
participate in the federally funded expansion of Medicaid. You
chose not to. Critics say that is going to cost your state some
money and some poor people won’t be covered.  WALKER: Well, a couple different things. You know, some
governors early on said no, maybe some would say from a knee-
jerk standpoint. Others, like the ones you mentioned, said yes.
We chose a different option, as Wisconsin often has in the past.
We chose a different path. In fact, last week, the Wall Street
Journal editorialized about how this maybe was a better path
than some of the others across the country.  Our plan will allow us to reduce the number of uninsured in
my state by 224,580. At the same time, I reduce the number of
people on Medicaid by 87,000 and move them into the private
market and the exchanges and add 82,000 people who previously
who live in poverty weren’t covered, because of a cap my
predecessor put on that. Why? Because I believe that Medicaid
should be for what it was designed for, which is covering people
living in poverty, but it shouldn’t be a permanent entitlement.
It shouldn’t be something where we permanently have people
dependent on the government.  HUNT: You mentioned 224,000, and if you participate in the
program, that would have been 252,000, according to some data,
so that’s more.  WALKER: Right -- well, but it’s -- but it’s a slight
difference. And in return, we’re able to move more people off of
Medicaid onto the expansion plan that would have only been a
slight fraction more -  HUNT: And you don’t think poor people are going to get
hurt?  WALKER: No, actually, I think they’ll benefit, because in
the end, there will be fewer people that are uninsured today.
There will be fewer people on Medicaid. It means more people
will move into the private insurance market and exchanges. And
for someone just living above poverty in my state, it means
they’ll be eligible for a premium of just $19 -- as little as
$19 a month.  HUNT: Final question.  Karl Rove  has praised you as one of
America’s most remarkable political talents. Do you think his
Conservative Victory Fund plans, which is basically to try to
defeat what he thinks are unelectable Republicans in primaries,
places like  Iowa , is that a good idea?  WALKER: Well, I think the better idea, the big idea that
I’m trying to push to my Republican friends across the country
is to stop being focused on the other side and what’s wrong with
them, but being optimistic, being relevant, and ultimately being
courageous and being willing to act on it.  HUNT: So would you like to see Karl Rove redirect his
energies from what he said he’s going to do?  WALKER: Well, I think the idea is, instead of not --instead
of trying to push candidates out, what we should be doing is
finding candidates who embrace those ideas, who offer a
positive, optimistic, relevant alternative to what we’re getting
out of the White House and out of Democrats elsewhere around the
country -  HUNT: And that’s the advice you’d give Mr. Rove?  WALKER: Absolutely.  HUNT: OK.  Governor Walker , thank you so much for being with
us. And Go Pack next fall.  WALKER: Amen to that.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 