-- Walker Says Entitlements Should Be Cut to Reduce Deficit
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-02-23T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/walker-says-entitlement-programs-should-be-cut-to-reduce-deficit.html
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  said
Congress should reduce the  budget deficit  by paring back
spending on Social Security and Medicare instead of relying on
across-the-board spending cuts scheduled to begin on March 1.  “Long-term, there’s got to be some sort of entitlement
reform,” Walker, 45, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend. “You’ve still got to start tackling some of these
entitlement reforms now.”  President  Barack Obama  and Congressional leaders are locked
in a disagreement over the  U.S. budget deficit . If Congress
doesn’t act, federal spending will be reduced by $85 billion in
the final seven months of this fiscal year and by $1.2 trillion
over the next nine years. Half of the cuts would come from
defense and half from domestic spending. The reductions were
designed to be so unpalatable that lawmakers would come up with
a way to replace them.  The federal government shouldn’t raise taxes again because
that could exert a drag on the still-recovering  U.S. economy ,
said Walker, who won election in 2010, when his party gained the
majority in the U.S. House. In January, Congress passed
legislation allowing levies on top earners’ income, as well as
workers’ payroll taxes, to increase as scheduled.  “Anything that takes more money out of the economy could
have a negative impact on revenues,” Walker said. “I get long-
term why that’s part of the discussion, but in the short term,
we’re still having a fragile recovery.”  Entitlement Programs  The governor said entitlement programs, such as Medicare
and  Social Security , are expanding the  federal budget  deficit.
Cutting entitlements won’t hurt the economy, he said.  “I don’t think that has a negative impact on the
economy,” he said. “Politically, it may be a challenge for
some folks in this town, but it’s something that has to be
done.”  Republicans in Congress need to spend more time discussing
issues that are important to voters, rather than whether to
increase the nation’s borrowing limit or the mandatory budget
cuts, known as sequestration, Walker said. They should discuss
how to spur the economy by cutting taxes and easing regulations,
he said.  “We talk a lot about frugality,” he said. “We don’t talk
enough about growth.”  Medicaid Expansion  While Republican governors of states including Florida,
Ohio and  Michigan  have opted to expand Medicaid for the poor
under Obama’s health-care plan, Walker declined to do so.  He decided to turn down the federal money, which would
cover the cost for the first three years, in favor of changing
the state’s health-care program so that more residents will buy
subsidized insurance. He said it will reduce the number of
uninsured residents of his state by 225,000, a slightly smaller
drop than would be achieved by expanding Medicaid.  “Medicaid should be for what it was designed for, which is
covering people living in poverty, but it shouldn’t be a
permanent entitlement,” he said. “It shouldn’t be something
where we permanently have people dependent on the government.”  Walker took issue with Republican strategist  Karl Rove ’s
plans to back Republican primary candidates who have a greater
chance of winning in the general election.  Republicans should focus on finding candidates who offer a
“positive” alternative to Democratic policies, he said.  “The big idea that I’m trying to push to my Republican
friends across the country is to stop being focused on the other
side and what’s wrong with them, but being optimistic, being
relevant, and ultimately being courageous and being willing to
act on it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  