-- Won Posts First Weekly Decline in Three on Intervention Concern
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-02-22T08:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/won-set-for-first-weekly-drop-in-three-on-probable-intervention.html
The won completed its first weekly
drop in three after South Korean authorities indicated they will
intervene to curb gains that hurt the nation’s exports.  Japanese policies that have weakened the yen by 12 percent
against the dollar in the past three months are threatening the
competitiveness of Korean companies such as Samsung Electronics
Co. Incoming President Park Geun Hye may adjust currency trading
rules if needed, her transition team said in a policy report
yesterday. Currency stability is needed to protect local
companies and the nation will “pre-emptively, effectively”
respond to the foreign-exchange risk, according to an e-mailed
statement from her spokesman Park Sun Kyoo earlier this week.  Authorities “want to show investors and speculators that
it’s not a one-way bet,” said Roy Teo, a currency strategist at
ABN Amro Bank NV in  Singapore . Intervention or measures to
reduce volatility are “quite likely,” he said.  The won dropped 0.6 percent this week to 1,084.68 per
dollar in  Seoul  and touched 1,089.80 earlier, the weakest level
since Feb. 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency rose 0.1 percent today.  South Korea must control currency volatility and
speculative investment in the won must be curbed, central bank
Governor Kim Choong Soo said on Feb. 20. Samsung Electronics
said last month that currency gains could reduce its operating
profit by 3 trillion won ($2.8 billion) this year.  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270)  reported a 51 percent slump in operating profit on Jan. 25
and said it expects a difficult year.  One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
climbed 35 basis points from a week ago to 7.35 percent. It
dropped eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, today.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due September 2017 fell four basis points to 2.8 percent this
week and was unchanged today, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  