-- World’s Richest Lose $21 Billion as Icahn’s Fortune Drops
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2013-02-22T22:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/world-s-richest-lose-21-billion-as-icahn-s-fortune-drops.html
The 100 wealthiest people on the
planet shed $21.3 billion from their collective net worth as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted its first weekly decline so
far this year.  Activist investor  Carl Icahn , the world’s 34th-richest
person, was one of the week’s biggest losers, dropping $1.3
billion as shares of  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP)  sank 15.6 percent.
He’s worth $20.4 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index.  “The market was looking for an excuse to take a few chips
off the table,” said James McDonald, chief investment
strategist at  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS)  in Chicago, which manages
$759 billion. “The excuse was the minutes from the Fed, but
investors realize the Fed’s picture really hasn’t changed that
significantly. Today, there was good German confidence data.”  The S&P rose 0.88 percent yesterday, trimming a decline
triggered by concerns that the Federal Reserve will scale back
stimulus. The index rebounded from two days of losses after
German business confidence rose more than forecast, adding to
signs that Europe’s largest economy is gathering strength.  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest man, saw his net worth
fall by almost $700 million as  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, Latin
America’s biggest mobile-phone company by market value, fell 2.2
percent, capping its third straight weekly drop. Slim, 73, has a
net worth of $73.4 billion.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder Bill Gates, 57, is the world’s
second-richest person with a $66 billion fortune, down $260
million for the week. Amancio Ortega, the 76-year-old founder of
 Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s biggest clothing retailer and owner of
the Zara clothing chain, is No. 3 with a net worth of $56.1
billion. He lost $1.3 billion.  Suspicious Trades  Trailing Ortega is Warren Buffett, 82, who’s valued at
$54.2 billion. A federal judge froze a Swiss account that the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission says was used to carry
out suspicious trades in H.J. Heinz Co. shares shortly before
Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G
Capital Inc. announced they’d agreed to buy the company. The SEC
on Feb. 15 sued the “unknown” traders over suspicious
purchases of Heinz options through the account.  Lemann, 73, is Brazil’s richest individual. He has a net
worth of $19.9 billion, down $20 million for the week.  Tax Loophole  Hedge fund manager John Paulson, 57, is No. 93 on
Bloomberg’s ranking with a net worth of $11.2 billion. Last
year, executives at his firm sent about $450 million to a
reinsurance company that they’d set up in Bermuda. By June, the
island company, which has no employees and sells far less
reinsurance than the industry norm, had sent all the cash back
to New York, to be invested in Paulson & Co. funds. The little-
known tax loophole allows them to reduce their personal income
taxes and delay paying the bill for years.  The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York and listed in U.S.
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  