-- Yen Joins Aussie as Most Hit by Yield Rise for Societe Generale
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-02-22T01:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/yen-joins-aussie-as-most-hit-by-yield-rise-for-societe-generale.html
The yen, Australian dollar and
Mexican peso are the currencies most vulnerable to an increase
in U.S. bond yields and the dollar, according to an analysis by
 Societe Generale  SA.  Chile’s peso, the Norwegian krone and the Russian ruble
will be the most resilient, strategists including New York-based
Michael Haigh and London-based Kit Juckes said in a Feb. 21
report. Treasury 10-year  yields  reached a 10-month high on Feb.
14 and are predicted to increase 34 basis points by year-end
from today’s level amid signs the  Federal Reserve  may be
considering slowing its asset-purchase program. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  “One of the major themes for the coming year will be a
reversion to a rather more normal state of affairs, when U.S.
economic recovery leads to speculation about when the Fed will
stop buying bonds and start to normalize monetary policy,” the
analysts wrote. “When that happens, good news will drive
Treasury yields higher and the dollar will rally.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback versus the currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, yesterday touched 81.508, the highest since Sept. 5.  Treasury 10-year yields were at 1.98 percent and reached
2.06 percent on Feb. 14, the most since April 10.  Several Fed policy makers said the central bank should be
ready to vary the pace of its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases amid a debate over the risks and benefits of further
quantitative easing, minutes of last month’s meeting released
Feb. 20 showed.  U.S. Jobs  U.S.  unemployment  may drop to 6.5 percent by the middle of
next year from 7.9 percent in January and prompt policy makers
to raise benchmark  interest rate  from near zero, Bank of St.
Louis President  James Bullard  said yesterday.  Japan ’s policy shift under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has
probably changed the yen’s previous relationship to U.S. yields,
where the currency was among those least affected by increases,
Societe Generale said. Japan’s foreign-exchange and monetary
policies are weakening the yen, resulting in a vulnerability to
U.S. rate increases, it said.  The yen has dropped 10 percent against the greenback since
Abe won elections on Dec. 16 and traded at 93.22 per dollar at
9:45 a.m. in  Tokyo .  Mexico’s peso may suffer because the nation is vulnerable
to a flight of capital given that volatile  portfolio  inflows
account for most of the foreign funds in the country in the past
few months, Societe Generale estimates. Chile and  Brazil , on the
other hand, benefit from having more stable foreign direct
investments, the bank said.  Aussie Vulnerable  Australia ’s dollar will suffer on multiple fronts as
monetary policy and capital flows will both work against the
currency along with higher U.S. yields, Societe Generale’s
analysis showed.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said today
sustained strength in the so-called Aussie, which has remained
above parity with the greenback since June, spurred policy
makers to lower borrowing costs. The governor said he was
surprised the currency hasn’t fallen more.  The Australian dollar weakened 0.2 percent this week to
$1.0280 and has declined 1.1 percent this year. Mexico’s peso
has fallen 0.4 percent since Feb. 15 to 12.7442 per dollar.  Societe Generale analyzed nine currency pairs which are
linked to commodities either through their exports or imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  