-- Yingli Fourth-Quarter Shipments Surge as Solar Prices Slump
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-02-22T16:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/yingli-fourth-quarter-shipments-surge-as-solar-prices-slump-1-.html
  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) ,
the Chinese company that may become the biggest solar
manufacturer, said shipments of panels surged at more than
double its expected pace in the fourth quarter as prices fell.  Yingli expects fourth-quarter shipments to increase 40
percent from the third quarter, compared with an earlier
forecast of a “low teen” gain, the Baoding, China-based
company said in a statement today.  Solar manufacturers are contending with prices that  slumped 
12 percent in the fourth quarter. That’s driving up sales while
cutting into margins and eroding profits, according to Aaron Chew, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in  New York .  “The only reason we’re seeing demand upside is because of
lower pricing,” Chew said in an interview. “Demand upside
means nothing if it doesn’t yield higher prices and thus
margins.”  Chew rates Yingli a hold and said he expects “little
upside until profitability outlook improves.”  Yingli’s shipments for the year will be about 2.3
gigawatts, according to the statement. That puts it on track to
surpass Suntech Power Holdings Co., the top panel producer in
2011, which lowered its 2012 shipment  forecast  in August to 1.8
gigawatts to 2 gigawatts.  Yingli also will take a charge in the quarter to write down
inventory, contributing to gross margin of minus 8 percent to
minus 8.5 percent, according to the statement. Its margin was
minus 23 percent in the third quarter, the first time it
reported a negative margin since the company was listed on the
New York Stock Exchange in 2007.  Positive Margins  Yingli Chief Financial Officer Bryan Li said last month
gross margin may rise to 20 percent this year if market
conditions improve.  JA Solar Holdings Co. (JASO)  said Feb. 20 that shipments in the
fourth quarter will be 480 megawatts to 500 megawatts, up from
its prior forecast of 380 megawatts to 420 megawatts. The
Shanghai-based company didn’t forecast its margin for the
quarter.  Yingli is scheduled to report fourth-quarter and full-year
2012 results on March 4. JA Solar hasn’t set a date for its
earnings report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  