-- Hyperinflation Sparked by Lack of Faith Not QE: Cutting Research
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2013-02-22T00:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/hyperinflation-sparked-by-lack-of-faith-not-qe-cutting-research.html
Anyone concerned that central banks’
printing of money for quantitative easing may cause
hyperinflation, have no fear. It takes more than that.  Hyperinflation isn’t simply a monetary phenomenon, James Montier, a strategist at Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co. LLC,
wrote in a paper this month. Sudden sharp reductions in supply
that hurt potential output play a prominent role in periods of
hyperinflation by creating excess demand, he said.  “To say that the printing of money by central banks to
finance government deficits creates hyperinflations is far too
simplistic,” Montier wrote. “History teaches us that a massive
supply shock, often coupled with external debts denominated in a
foreign currency, is required, and that social unrest and
distributive conflict help to transmit the shock more broadly.”  Montier, a collector of bank notes from past
hyperinflations, said those conditions probably mean that the
U.S., the U.K. and  Japan  are safe from a bout of out-of-control
inflation. On the other hand, a breakup of the euro could
trigger an episode, London-based Montier said.  “If simply ‘printing money’ really did lead to
hyperinflations, then we should expect to see hyperinflations
all of the time,” he wrote. “Yet, rather than two-a-penny,
hyperinflations are thankfully rare events, representing
occasions when populations lose complete faith in their
currencies.”  * * *  The wealth effect may not be what it used to be.  So say economists Neal Soss and Henry Mo of  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  in  New York . In a Feb. 13 research note entitled
“Honey, I Shrunk the Wealth Effect,” they argue that the
impact of rising stock and housing prices on consumption in the
U.S. has diminished since last decade’s financial crisis.  Household  net worth  climbed to an almost five-year high in
the third quarter of last year as equity and home prices
increased, Federal Reserve data show. Under the wealth effect
hypothesis, the higher asset prices should boost consumption as
people become more comfortable with their finances, leading them
to spend more and save less.  Soss and Mo found that changes in housing wealth have a
bigger impact on consumption than do fluctuations in stock
market wealth. That’s in line with the conclusions of other
researchers, including  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , developers
of a series of house price indexes bearing their names.  Their more “novel” finding, according to the Credit
Suisse economists, was that “wealth effects appear to have
shrunk since the 2007-2008 financial crisis, and more so for
housing wealth than for stock market wealth.”  They offered a number of potential explanations for the
change. Homeowners may be more reluctant to count on higher  real
estate values  after the housing bust showed that prices can go
down as well as up. Many also remain “underwater” on their
mortgages -- owing more on the loans that the house is worth --
even after the recent rebound in prices.  The results of their research have implications for the Fed
and its efforts to  pump up  the economy, Soss and Mo wrote in
their report. The central bank “will need to ‘engineer’” even
larger bull markets in  house prices  and  stock prices  for any
given desired pick-up in economic growth.  “The great financial crisis is proving to have a long
tail,” they concluded.  * * *  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  says he’ll do
“whatever it takes” to save the euro. That doesn’t mean
 Germany  necessarily should do the same, according to  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The German government needs to assess at what point the
costs of a breakup become smaller than the net present value of
future payments needed to keep the monetary union together,
Goldman economists  Dirk Schumacher  and Matthieu Droumaguet said
in a Feb. 14 report.  “At some point, the economic costs of keeping the monetary
union together could become so high that they would outweigh any
possible political benefit,” wrote Frankfurt-based Schumacher
and London-based Droumaguet. They didn’t recommend what course
of action Germany should pursue.  In a breakup, the German economy would fall into a deep
recession as its new currency appreciates once independent from
the peripheral economies. Industrial production would decline
more than 40 percent, the economists said in their report. In
addition, the government and companies would face substantial
writedowns as their euro-area assets held in weakening non-
German currencies outside Germany lose value.  The economists estimate Germany’s current direct exposure
via various financial support facilities that have been created
over the past couple of years to be 730 billion euros ($964
billion).  * * *  At the same time, Germany is finding that last decade’s
structural overhaul of its economy is working.  An  International Monetary Fund   working paper  found the 2005
implementation of labor law changes known as Hartz IV was
successful in reducing the country’s long-run  unemployment rate 
by 1.4 percentage points.  The changes achieved the main goal of shrinking non-
cyclical unemployment by increasing the incentive to search for
work, said Tom Krebs of the IMF and Martin Scheffel of the Swiss
Federal institute of Technology Zurich.  “The story about the ‘sick man of  Europe ’ had turned into
a story about the ‘German labor market miracle,’” the authors
wrote.  The changes are named after then-Volkswagen AG personnel
chief Peter Hartz, who led a government panel that recommended
many of them. They reduced entitlement duration and benefit
levels for most households, in what was a “radical overhaul of
the German unemployment benefit system,” the authors said.  Long-term unemployed households were the biggest losers in
the changes as cuts to their jobless benefits were quite large,
while short-term unemployed recipients had smaller losses.  “The Hartz IV reform achieved its main goal, namely to
reduce the structural  unemployment rate  by increasing the
incentive of the unemployed to search for new jobs,” Krebs and
Scheffel said.  * * *  A woman’s bargaining power in a marriage and the assets she
brings into her new life can influence the amount of nutrition
consumed by her children, especially daughters, a World Bank
 working paper  showed.  Using data from  Bangladesh , one of the world’s poorest
countries, the study showed a female child’s calorie adequacy
ratio tends to climb with a wife’s assets. It declines when the
husband’s holdings increase, said Aminur Rahman of the World
Bank’s International Finance Corp.  “My findings imply that for any given level of economic
development and  household income , gender disparity could be
potentially reduced through increased women’s bargaining power
within the household achieved through various legal and policy
changes that grant women more control over resources,” Rahman
wrote.  The results of the study are also consistent with others
that show more control of resources by women leads to an
improvement in children’s health and education, and to their own
well-being, he said.  “However, the change in a woman’s bargaining power may
affect marriages and perhaps divorces,” Rahman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ,
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  