-- Zambia Banks Attracting Interest From Global Buyers
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-02-22T15:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/zambia-banks-attracting-interest-from-global-buyers.html
Zambian lenders are potential
acquisition targets for foreign banks seeking to expand in
 Africa ’s largest copper producing nation, central bank Governor
Michael Gondwe said.  “Some of them are from our neighboring countries,” Gondwe
said in an interview yesterday in Lusaka, the capital. “There
is still interest for people from outside to invest in the
banking industry of this country.”  Zambia has 18 registered lenders, including the local units
of South Africa’s  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , and London-based
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , according to the central bank’s  website .
In 2011, the southern African nation reversed the sale of
Finance Bank Zambia Ltd. to Johannesburg-based  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)   Gondwe declined to identify the banks which are potential
takeover targets. Shares in  Zambia National Commercial Bank Plc (ZANACO) ,
or Zanaco, have gained 22 percent on the Lusaka Stock Exchange
this month. The bank gained 4.6 percent to close at 0.23 kwacha
a share, the highest since it listed in 2008. Rabobank
International, based in Amsterdam, holds a 46 percent stake in
the lender, while the government owns 25 percent.  Potential buyers have expressed interest in local banks
this year, Gondwe said. Any buyers of a local bank would have to
comply with capitalization rules, he said. Foreign-owned banks
have until the end of this year to raise their capital to 520
million kwacha ($98 million), while local banks must hold 104
million kwacha.  Local lenders that can’t satisfy those rules may look for
partners or buyers, Mataka Nkhoma, general manager at African
Alliance Securities Zambia, said by phone from Lusaka. “This
minimum capitalization has really changed the terrain,” he
said. “It’s a bit of a shake-up.”  Smaller banks such as Investrust Ltd. and Cavmont Capital
Bank Ltd. may be likely targets, Nkhoma said. First Alliance
Bank Zambia Ltd.’s owners have also said they are
“comfortable” with exiting or finding partners, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  