-- Zombie Towers Among Air-Traffic Sites on FAA Closing List
-- B y   B e r n a r d   K o h n   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-22T20:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-22/zombie-towers-among-air-traffic-sites-on-faa-closing-list.html
(Corrects Ryan’s committee in last paragraph.)  A West Virginia airport tower
staffed around the clock while having too few flights to be open
at night under U.S. guidelines is among facilities that could be
shuttered under automatic budget cuts.  The tower at Tri-State Milton J. Ferguson Field in
Huntington is among 238 air-traffic facilities the Federal
Aviation Administration today listed for possible closing under
budget cuts known as the sequester.  The FAA also said it may eliminate night shifts at 72
towers and regional radar rooms. Fifty-four of those already met
guidance for closing during those periods because of low
traffic, according to agency data compiled by Bloomberg.  The FAA has been thwarted in previous attempts to close
towers and radar rooms at little-used airports, including
Huntington, because of pressure from members of Congress,
 Bloomberg News  reported last year.  The agency would save $10 million a year by ending night
shifts at the 102 U.S. air-traffic towers and radar rooms that
operate overnight without the traffic to justify it, Bloomberg
reported.  Among the towers that may lose overnight staffing under the
FAA plan is facility at Willow Run Airport, near  Detroit , which
keeps two controllers on duty despite averaging about one flight
an hour during periods after midnight.  Rahall, Ryan  Huntington’s airport is in the district of Representative
Nick Rahall, senior Democrat on the House transportation
committee, which oversees the FAA. Rahall said in an interview
last year he encouraged the agency to keep the tower open.  The FAA in 2011 backed off a plan to end overnight staffing
at Willow Run after pressure from lawmakers led by Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, according to FAA correspondence
compiled by Bloomberg.  Under FAA policy, airport towers can be closed during
periods when they average fewer than four flight operations an
hour. Huntington’s airport didn’t have a single period during
the average day in which it had more than four flights an hour,
according to data compiled by the FAA for a one-year period
ending in June 2011.  Today’s list of small and mid-sized towers the FAA has
targeted for closing includes one at the Southern  Wisconsin 
Regional Airport in Janesville, Wisconsin, hometown of
Republican Representative  Paul Ryan , chairman of the House
Budget Committee. Ryan was the running mate of  Mitt Romney , the
Republican candidate President  Barack Obama  defeated in
November’s election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bernard Kohn in Washington at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  