-- ‘Les Mis’ Director Lauds Jackman, Recalls ’King’s Speech’
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-01-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/-les-mis-director-lauds-jackman-recalls-king-s-speech-.html
Tom Hooper’s last movie was about a
man who got help from a speech coach. His new movie features a
cast that had help from a voice coach.  Hooper, who won a best-director Oscar in 2011 for “The
King’s Speech” -- the story of Queen Elizabeth II’s stuttering
dad -- now presents “Les Miserables,” featuring a stellar cast
with mixed melodic abilities. While male lead Hugh Jackman is
solid as the ex-convict Jean Valjean, Russell Crowe is musically
underwhelming as his adversary Javert, and he’s not alone.  Hooper and I meet in the homely, rust-colored suite of a
 London  hotel. The Oxford-educated filmmaker, 40, looks preppy in
his blue velvet blazer. He’s as reserved as when we last met,
just before his Oscar. I ask why he cast non-singers.  “I auditioned hundreds and hundreds of people, and the
difficulty is being able to hold a film camera in close-up,” he
says. “There’s a good reason why film stars are film stars,
which is, they have an extraordinary magnetism on camera which a
lot of people that are not film stars simply don’t have.”  Hooper tried to enhance the recordings using software, but
“there was always a loss,” so he left “the raw vocal.”  Australian-born Jackman was his first and only choice for
Valjean. “If Hugh didn’t exist, I would not have made the
film,” says Hooper, listing Jackman’s tenor voice, his career
in movies and musicals, his physical stamina, and his “grace
and kindness.”  Crowe Power  As the policeman Javert, he needed “someone who the
audience could believe might vanquish this guy. If you really
think about it, Russell’s one of the few actors who has that
kind of power.”  Crowe was apparently a delight on shoot. “He was so
enthusiastic. He said when we met that he hadn’t been as excited
about doing a film since ‘A Beautiful Mind.’”  As the story was set in  France , Hooper felt no pressure to
cast British leads. Besides, he’s half Australian. (His
Australian mother was the one who first brought an unknown play
called “The King’s Speech” to his attention.)  Throughout, there was “this constant voice in my ear” --
that of “Les Miserables” composer Claude-Michel Schoenberg --
pushing for more feeling. “The French are passionate!” the
composer told Hooper. “They’re not like you buttoned-up
English, they’re not all so scared to show emotion!”  The filmmaker scarcely needed coaxing. Having touched
audiences with “The King’s Speech,” he was determined to
“stay in that emotional zone.”  Emotional Reserve  I point out the irony in someone so reserved being so keen
to tackle sentiments.  “I’m English,” he says with a nervous laugh. Then comes a
quiet confession: The Valjean death scene in his own movie still
makes him cry.  “Why am I crying?” he wonders aloud. “My father, who’s
alive and well, will one day face this, and it’s hard not to
think about it when you’re watching it.”  Before filming started, he remembered his father’s own
words. “He said I want to master the art of dying well,”
recalls Hooper, “in a way that causes you and your brother and
sister as little pain as possible, and I want to have left you
as happy as possible.” It might as well be Valjean speaking.  Victor Hugo’s novel “looks death square on: It doesn’t
flinch from it,” says Hooper. “Death in modern films is quite
often either a narrative device or a kind of comic-strip thing
that happens.”  Penniless Prostitution  There’s certainly no shortage of emotionality in the movie.
In one harrowing scene, penniless Fantine (Anne Hathaway), who
has sold her hair and a few teeth, resigns herself to a life of
prostitution as she sings “I Dreamed a Dream.” In a single
three-minute take, she works her voice from a soft murmur into a
belting crescendo, and gradually falls to pieces.  The filmmaker sees “extraordinary parallels” between
“Les Miserables” and recent events such as the  Occupy Wall
Street  movement and the Arab spring.  “We live in a moment when images of revolution are
commonplace on TV,” he says. “That anger about economic
inequality is huge.”  Has the income gap widened between himself and the world’s
poor since “The King’s Speech,” which grossed $414 million
worldwide? “Marginally,” he says. “When you make an
independent movie as a fledgling director, you don’t see much of
that.”  Life has been all work and no play ever since. “I have had
no down time,” he says. “It’s basically been, how few hours
can you sleep and work productively?”  “Not all films are like that,” he concludes. “But this
one was insane.”  “Les Miserables” opens Friday in the U.K. and Ireland. It
has opened in the U.S.: for a review, click here.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  James
Russell  on architecture and  Mike Di Paola  on conservation.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 