-- Abu Dhabi Developers Aldar, Sorouh Said to Agree on Merger Terms
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-01-08T16:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/abu-dhabi-developers-aldar-sorouh-said-to-agree-on-merger-terms.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh Real
Estate Co. (SOROUH) , Abu Dhabi’s two biggest developers, agreed on merger
terms and are expected to announce a deal in about two weeks,
according to two people with knowledge of the transaction.  The agreement in principal between the two developers now
awaits approvals from a committee monitoring the transaction as
well as the United Arab Emirates’ market regulator, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. The companies, in which the government owns stakes,
will merge through an exchange of shares and it’s expected the
deal will be completed in about three months, according to one
of the people.  Aldar’s Deputy Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Al Mubarak
declined to comment when contacted today. A spokesman for Sorouh
also declined to comment on the story, which was reported by
Reuters earlier today.  Shares of both companies surged. Sorouh gained 14 percent,
the biggest jump since Bloomberg started tracking the shares in
December 2005, to 1.58 dirhams at the close in  Abu Dhabi . Aldar
climbed 14 percent, the most since September 2005, to 1.59
dirhams. The  ADX Real Estate Index (ADRE)  increased 13 percent, the
most on record, helping lift the  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  0.6 percent.  The developers have played an integral part in Abu Dhabi’s
drive to turn itself into a tourism and business hub. The
companies said in March that they were studying a possible
combination with the blessing of the emirate’s government. Abu
Dhabi bailed out Aldar in 2011 after  house prices  in the emirate
slumped about 50 percent during the global financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  