-- Macquarie Urged by UBS to Dump Securities, Capital Units
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-09T01:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/macquarie-urged-by-ubs-to-dump-securities-capital-businesses.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  would gain from
selling or closing its underwriting and loss-making securities
businesses, according to  UBS AG (UBSN) , which upgraded its rating on
 Australia ’s largest investment bank to buy from neutral.  Closing the two units, which were responsible for
Macquarie’s 2012 profit falling to an eight-year low, or moving
to a capital-light advisory model that excludes backing share
and bond sales, would raise its valuation to A$40.42 a share,
UBS said, from A$30.87 now. Macquarie  shares  were unchanged at
A$35.62 at 11:48 a.m. in Sydney trading, giving it a market
value of A$12.2 billion ($12.8 billion).  Ongoing losses after bonuses “across its equities and
investment banking businesses will inevitably force Macquarie’s
management and board to reassess its strategy,” UBS analysts
including Jonathan Mott and  Chris Williams  said in a note to
investors released today. They expect the two units to lose
A$306 million in the year to March 2013 and not return to profit
in the foreseeable future.  Macquarie -- which also has funds management, lending and
leasing, banking and  fixed income , currencies and commodities
trading businesses --  has joined banks including UBS and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in cutting jobs to save on costs as trading and
mergers and acquisitions dwindled,  Europe ’s debt crisis roiled
markets and  China ’s economic growth slowed. In Australia,
announced mergers and acquisitions fell in 2012 to the lowest
since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Lisa Jamieson, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Macquarie,
declined to comment on the report.  Unit Losses  Macquarie Securities, which focuses on equity trading,
reported a loss of A$64 million in the six months to Sept. 30,
wider than the A$19 million loss a year earlier. Its investment
bank, which advised A$36 billion worth of transactions in the
period, boosted profit to A$10 million from A$8 million a year
earlier.  Chief Executive  Nicholas Moore , under pressure to revive
profit growth, said in an interview on Oct. 26 while the two
units continue to be impacted by subdued market conditions.
“there is more confidence out there than there was 12 months
ago.”  Macquarie has not fully acknowledged the structural changes
in the industry, the analysts said. UBS has announced 10,000 job
cuts and a retreat from capital-intensive trading business,
while Nomura Holdings Inc. is targeting $1 billion in savings by
scaling back its global ambitions.  Lazard Model  The UBS analysts said Macquarie should at the very least
exit its North American, Europe, Middle East and Africa equities
and investment banking business where it is not big enough to
compete and focus on adopting a financial advisory and asset
management model similar to  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   Lazard, the largest independent advisory firm, spun off its
equity, broking and fixed-income brokerage business to closely-
held LFCM Holdings in 2005 leaving it with less capital
intensive businesses.  Macquarie has been shrinking its equity trading and
investment banking units to concentrate on stable businesses
such as funds management, corporate lending, leasing, wealth and
banking. Those businesses together contributed 63 percent of its
operating income in the first half, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg from company statements.  Equity trading and investment banking accounted for 32
percent of the 1,625 job reductions in the 12 months to
September, filings showed.  Macquarie funds managed A$337 billion in assets, its
leasing business owned an aircraft portfolio valued at A$3.2
billion and its wealth and banking unit has relationships with
about 1 million Australians as of September 2012, according to
the filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  