-- African Oil Flows Seen Shifting to Asia as U.S. Imports Drop
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-01-08T08:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/african-oil-flows-seen-shifting-to-asia-as-u-s-imports-drop.html
Oil shipped to  China  from West Africa
will rise again in 2013, hastening a shift in trade flows to
Asia from the Atlantic region as U.S. crude imports fall
further, according to Arctic Securities ASA.  China will boost imports of West African crude by 18
percent in 2013, above last year’s 16 percent gain, according to
the Oslo-based investment bank. That will offset a predicted
drop in U.S. seaborne imports, lifting global ton-mile demand
for oil tankers by an estimated 3.4 percent even as the amount
of crude carried at sea remains stable and the fleet expands,
Arctic said. Ton-mile demand is gauged by multiplying cargo size
and distance traveled.  “That is a pretty strong number, which will help balance
out my expected supply growth of 3 percent, hence a marginal
upturn in the market,” Arctic analyst Erik Nikolai Stavseth
said in an e-mailed response to questions Jan. 3. U.S. seaborne
oil imports will fall a further 200,000 barrels a day this year
to 6.2 million barrels daily, he said.  Arctic’s calculations cover the three largest oil-tanker
varieties, tallying 1,992 vessels. Very large crude carriers,
each able to hold 2 million barrels, are the biggest oil-
transporting ships.  Shipments of crude in tankers to China will rise 6 percent
to 5.6 million barrels a day in 2013, according to the bank.
Imports of Latin American oil will increase 12 percent, stronger
than last year’s 8 percent, helping to reduce the country’s
dependence on Persian Gulf crude to 52 percent of shipments from
58 percent in the prior year, Arctic estimated.  Continuing Change  “Crude flows from the Americas to Asia and West Africa to
Asia on VLCCs have tracked up sharply by 40 percent, a shift we
expect to continue as Arabian Gulf volumes are not enough to
satisfy Asian thirst,” Arctic said in a Jan. 2 report.  U.S. imports of crude fell to 8.7 million barrels a day in
2012 from 8.9 million in the prior year, the lowest since 1998,
according to data from Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest
shipbroker. The figure includes oil shipped on tankers and over
land via pipelines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  