-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Decline on Stock Outflows; Bonds Steady
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-01-08T08:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/taiwan-dollar-advances-as-export-outlook-improves-bonds-steady.html
Taiwan dollar forwards dropped after
global funds cut holdings of the island’s stocks for a third
day, as earnings results from  HTC Corp. (2498)  missed estimates.
 Government bonds  were little changed.  Global funds sold $236 million more Taiwanese stocks than
they sold today, according to exchange data. HTC Corp.,  Asia ’s
second-largest smartphone maker, posted operating income that
was lower than analysts’ estimates yesterday as a lack of new
models caused a loss of market share. The island’s overseas
sales rose 9 percent from a year earlier in December, following
a 0.9 percent increase in November, data showed yesterday.  “HTC’s earnings show global demand for consumer
electronics hasn’t really picked up yet,” said Ma Tieying, a
Singapore-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. “The
central bank will probably maintain a stable currency going
forward.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards weakened 0.1 percent to
NT$29.015 per dollar as of 4:10 p.m. in Taipei, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts are at a 0.4 percent
premium to the spot rate, which was little changed at NT$29.127,
based on Taipei Forex Inc. prices. Ma forecasts the currency
will strengthen to NT$28.7 by the end of March.  The monetary authority has bought the greenback to counter
appreciation in the island’s currency on most days in the past
nine months, according to traders who asked not to be
identified. The central bank’s mandate is to keep relative
exchange-rate stability and to intervene in the event of
abnormal moves, Governor Perng Fai-Nan said Dec. 19.  One-month implied volatility in the  Taiwan dollar , a gauge
of expected moves in exchange rates used to price options,
slipped 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, to 3 percent.  The yield on the 1.125 percent bonds due September 2022 was
little changed at 1.169 percent, according to Gretai Securities
Market. The  overnight interbank lending  rate was steady at 0.386
percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  