-- Albanian Man Gets 15 Years for Trying to Join Jihadists
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-08T22:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/albanian-man-gets-15-years-for-trying-to-join-jihadists-1-.html
An Albanian man who lived in  New York 
was sentenced to 15 years in prison for attempting to support an
Islamic terrorist group.  Agron Hasbajrami, 28, who was arrested in 2011 while on his
way to join jihadists in  Pakistan , was sentenced today by U.S.
District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn, New York, federal
court.  “There are crimes that involve successful efforts to
engage in terrorism. You were nipped in the bud,” Gleeson told
the defendant.  Prosecutors allege that Hasbajrami communicated with a
Pakistan-based extremist between April and Aug. 28, 2011, whose
group was involved in attacks on American soldiers in
 Afghanistan . Hasbajrami sent the individual about $1,000 and
discussed plans for joining the group, saying he had a desire to
“marry with the girls in paradise,” according to a Nov. 21
memorandum filed by the government.  A source cooperating with the U.S. learned from Hasbajrami
that he was continuing to pursue his plans to join the group,
prosecutors said in the memo. He was arrested Sept. 6, 2011, at
New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport on his way to
 Turkey  en route to Pakistan, according to the government.  Educated Man  Hasbajrami pleaded guilty in April to one count of
attempting to provide material support to terrorists.  Hasbajrami’s parents and his uncle described the defendant
in letters to the court as an educated man who cared about
people in need.  “I guarantee you that my nephew Agron Hasbajrami cannot be
a person that represents danger to the society,” his uncle
Rasim Hoxha, an Albanian government employee, said in a letter,
according to an English translation filed with the court.
“Since his childhood until today he has never fought in life
with any person.”  His parents, Ahmet and Meriban Hasbajrami, said in a
translated letter that coming to America was a “dream” for
their son, who lived in  Brooklyn  and worked in an architect’s
studio.  “We are shocked by the accusation that bears over him and
are of the belief that our son would not have knowingly and
consciously done any acts that would threaten security in the
USA,” they said in the translated version of their letter.  During the hearing today, Hasbajrami stood before the judge
in khaki jailhouse garb and delivered a statement slowly in
English, expressing regret that couldn’t explain himself as well
as he could in Albanian.  ‘Have Failed’  “I used to dream that someday I could become someone that
could change the world for better. But I have failed,” he said.
“I hope you can find it in your heart to give me a break today
and I will never forget you.”  As part of his guilty plea, Hasbajrami reached a deal with
prosecutors under which he would be subject to no more than 15
years in prison. Assistant U.S. Attorney Seth DuCharme said the
maximum in that range is appropriate because “there is a strong
need to deter others, of whom there are many” from similar
behavior.  “People need to understand that if they support terrorism
there are severe consequences,” DuCharme told the judge.  Gleeson said he might have imposed a harsher penalty if not
for the plea deal. Hasbajrami, who was in the U.S. legally, is
expected to be deported following his sentence.  Naseer Extradition  The sentencing comes a day after the appearance in Brooklyn
federal court of terrorism suspect Abid Naseer, who was
extradited from the U.K. Naseer is accused of a communicating
with a Pakistan-based facilitator about a potential attack in
Manchester,  England . The same facilitator also communicated with
defendants in a separate case over an alleged plot to bomb New
York City subways, the U.S. government said. Neither attack was
carried out.  The case is U.S. v. Hasbajrami, 1:11-cr-00623, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  