-- Alcoa Profit Seen Recovering on Aluminum Price Gains
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-01-08T15:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/alcoa-profit-seen-recovering-after-output-cuts-as-aluminum-gains.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, is set to record the strongest annual earnings growth
in three years as the price of the commodity rebounds and after
the company closed its most inefficient smelters.  Alcoa will today report fourth-quarter profit after one-
time items of 6 cents a share, according to the average of 19
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, compared with a year-
earlier loss of 3 cents. Earnings in 2013 will more than double
to 65 cents a share while the aluminum price will rise 6.4
percent, the estimates show.  “They’re moving in the right direction,” said Paul Massoud, a Washington-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
Inc. who recommends buying the shares. “When you look at the
operational side of things, they’ve done very well.”  Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  closed 12 percent
of Alcoa’s aluminum production capacity and sold a hydropower
plant in  Tennessee  in 2012. Those cost-cutting efforts combined
with higher commodity prices may help the company avoid a
downgrade to junk by Moody’s Investors Services Inc., which said
Dec. 18 it was reviewing its rating on Alcoa’s $8.3 billion of
debt.  Typically the first company in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  to report earnings, New York-based Alcoa is scheduled to
announce results after the close of trading.  The shares , which
were unchanged at $9.10 as of 9:55 a.m. in  New York , have
declined 0.6 percent in the past 12 months while the index rose
7.9 percent.  New Era  Libby Archell, a spokeswoman for Alcoa, declined to comment
on the results ahead of the announcement.  Alcoa completed the shutdown of its Portovesme smelter in
 Italy  in the fourth quarter while its $10.8 billion joint
venture in  Saudi Arabia  produced its first metal. The Saudi
plant combines all the stages of aluminum production, from
bauxite mining through to sheet rolling, and will be Alcoa’s
lowest-cost factory, according to the company.  The closing and startup marks “the end of one era and the
beginning of a new one,” said Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at
Richmond, Virginia-based Davenport & Co. who recommends buying
the shares.  Portovesme was among the 531,000 tons of smelting capacity
Alcoa closed last year. The company achieved $838 million in
productivity gains in the first nine months of 2012, compared
with a full-year target of $800 million, Chief Financial Officer
Chuck McLane said Nov. 7.  U.S. Plant  Alcoa announced in 2010 a $4.1 billion target for growing
revenue from its global rolled products and engineered solutions
segments by 2013. It also plans to increase margins on earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization at those
units, whose  customers  include Boeing Co. and  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  In
July, Alcoa broke ground on a $90 million plant in Lafayette,
 Indiana , to make aluminum alloys used in aircraft.  “They’ve been going through a process where they’ve been
expanding revenue from both mid- and downstream,” Stifel’s
Massoud said, referring to Alcoa’s divisions that make rolled
aluminum and engineered products. “They should get to their
goals by the end of this year.”  Bets that Alcoa shares will fall have dropped to a nine-
month low. The short interest slid to 3.5 percent of shares
outstanding on Jan. 3, near the least since April and down from
a high of 9.1 percent in August, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Markit, a London-based research firm.  Rising Prices  Aluminum for immediate delivery on the London Metal
Exchange averaged $2,021 in 2012. The metal will average $2,150
this year according to the median of 20 analysts’ estimates. The
price is seen rising to $2,292 in 2014 and $2,400 in 2015, the
estimates show, which would help Alcoa’s bottom line.  “If they ever get the wind at their back from rising LME
prices, the Street could have a very nice upside surprise on
their hands,” Davenport’s O’Carroll said. “The question is
when and to what degree.”  Aluminum is still some way off its previous highs. The LME
price for delivery in three months -- the most commonly traded
contract on the bourse -- peaked at $3,317 a ton in 2008, the
highest in at least 21 years, before plunging during the
financial crisis.  Global demand will rise 6.3 percent this year, according to
Barclays Plc. Aluminum production kept climbing last year, led
by a 9 percent gain in  China , according to 2011 data from the
 U.S. Geological Survey , the most recent year available.  Record Inventories  “Aluminum is probably one of the strongest in terms of
demand growth; the problem is the production growth,” said
David Lipschitz, an analyst at Credit Agricole Securities USA
Inc. in New York who recommends selling the shares. “In 2013,
you’re probably talking another 9 or 10 percent growth, which
offsets the demand growth.”  Global inventories of aluminum held in warehouses monitored
by the LME reached a record 5.2 million metric tons in December.
Global stockpiles will expand to a record of 8.67 million tons
in 2013 as production exceeds demand by 1.66 million tons,
Barclays analysts led by London-based  Gayle Berry  wrote in a
report Dec. 14.  That supply-demand picture continues to hang over the
aluminum market and Alcoa. Moody’s placed Alcoa’s Baa3 senior
unsecured rating, the lowest investment-grade level, under
review for downgrade last month, citing the “challenging
headwinds” faced by the company.  The recovery in the aluminum industry is “slow and
uneven” and the price of the metal will stay at 85 to 95 cents
a pound, or $1,874 to $2,094 at ton, for the next several
quarters, Moody’s said.  Price Recovery  Still, the LME three-month price averaged 3.5 percent
higher in the fourth quarter compared with July through
September.  “In the last three months we’ve had a nice recovery in the
aluminum price,” said  Jorge Beristain , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in Greenwich,  Connecticut , who recommends holding Alcoa
shares. The improvement should boost Alcoa’s Ebitda, he said.  “The price change should generate $80 to $90 million of
positive sequential momentum,” Beristain said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  