-- Alcoa Sales Top Estimates on Aluminum Prices
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-01-08T23:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/alcoa-sales-top-estimates-on-higher-than-expected-aluminum-price.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, reported fourth-quarter sales that exceeded analysts’
estimates after the company sold the commodity at a higher-than-
expected average price.  Sales fell to $5.9 billion from $5.99 billion, beating the
$5.6 billion average of 11 estimates. Net income of $242
million, or 21 cents a share, compared with a loss of $191
million, or 18 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based company
said today in a statement. Profit excluding a gain on the sale
of a power plant and other one-time items was 6 cents a share,
matching the average of 20  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The metal price helped out,” said Kuni Chen, an analyst
at CRT Capital Group in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who recommends
buying the shares. “They’re meeting their revenue growth goals
in the downstream.”  Aluminum prices are rising as demand in China and the U.S.
increases while record amounts are being shut away in warehouses
as part of financing deals. Alcoa, which said today that global
aluminum demand growth will accelerate to 7 percent in 2013, is
trying to avoid a downgrade to junk by Moody’s Investors
Services. The ratings company said Dec. 18 it was reviewing its
rating on the company’s debt.  Alcoa rose 0.8 percent to $9.17 at 6:39 p.m. in New York
after the close of regular trading. The shares have declined 0.7
percent in the past 12 months while the Dow Jones Industrial
Average rose 7.6 percent. Alcoa is the first company in the
index to report earnings.  China Strength  The company’s average realized aluminum price in the
quarter was $2,325 a ton. Paul Massoud, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in  Washington , expected Alcoa to receive $2,250
per ton for primary aluminum.  The average price of aluminum for immediate delivery on the
London Metal Exchange rose 3.9 percent to $1,999 a metric ton in
the quarter, compared with the previous period, when the price
touched a 34-month low. The metal will average $2,150 this year,
according to the median of 20 analysts’ estimates. The price is
seen rising to $2,292 in 2014 and $2,400 in 2015, the estimates
show.  “Aluminum prices have gone in their favor in the last
quarter,”  Jorge Beristain , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
Stamford, Connecticut, said by telephone yesterday. “It’s got
everything to do with the fact that the Chinese economy
strengthened in the fourth quarter.”  SEC Talks  Kleinfeld said today on a conference call that China, the
world’s largest aluminum user, will see demand growth accelerate
to 11 percent this year from 9 percent.  Alcoa reported after-tax operating income of $316 million
in its primary-metals division, which smelts aluminum, compared
with a loss of $32 million a year earlier. The company said
today it delivered $1.3 billion in overhead and productivity
improvements last year. Alcoa said its goal was $850 million of
such savings.  “That’s clearly a good number and well ahead of what they
were forecasting earlier this year,” Chen said by telephone.  U.S. aluminum demand increased 4.5 percent in 2012 and 8
percent in  China , Lloyd O’Carroll, a Richmond, Virginia-based
analyst at Davenport & Co., wrote in a Dec. 19 report.  Alcoa also said today that it’s in talks with the
Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission
to reach a resolution over their investigations into the
company’s involvement with Aluminium Bahrain.  Alcoa in October said it settled a four-year-old
racketeering lawsuit brought by Aluminium Bahrain. The state-
owned smelter, also known as Alba, filed a civil suit in 2008
alleging that Alcoa bribed officials in Bahrain in order to
charge more for alumina.  Alcoa said at the time it will pay Alba $85 million in two
cash installments and agree to a long-term sales agreement,
without admitting liability. Alba said in October that the
settlement had a total value of $447 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  