-- Allergan Seeks Sale of Obesity Business by First Quarter
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-01-08T21:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/allergan-seeks-sale-of-obesity-business-by-first-quarter.html
-  Allergan Inc. (AGN) , the maker of the
Botox wrinkle treatment, has attracted interest for its weight-
loss unit and wants to sell the business by the end of the first
quarter, Chief Executive Officer David Pyott said.  Allergan said in October it would consider a sale of the
obesity business, including the Lap-Band device, as revenue
declined and concerns rose about the weight-loss procedure.  “There’s a lot of interest, some strategic companies, but
especially in terms of numbers, private equity players,” Pyott
said yesterday in an interview at the annual health-care
conference sponsored by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in  San Francisco .
“Sometime in the first quarter this will come to pass.”  Allergan in November said it would buy a unit of SkinMedica
Inc. for $350 million to expand its skin-care business. Botox,
with about $1.6 billion in 2011 sales, is the  Irvine ,
California-based company’s best seller.  Revenue for the obesity intervention unit will be about
$160 million in 2012, the company said in a statement in
October. Sales declined from $203.1 million last year and a peak
of $296 million in 2008, the company reported.  Questions about the durability of  weight loss  with the Lap-
Band device and the risks that accompany it may have hampered
sales. Almost half of patients getting gastric banding had the
device subsequently removed, often because of erosion, according
to a Belgian study published in 2011. The company dropped its
plans to market the Lap-Band for teenagers at the beginning of
2012 amid congressional criticism and lawsuits.  General Surgery  Allergan has struggled to find efficient ways to sell the
Lap-Band, essentially its only product in the general surgery
market. While the company considered going deeper into the
surgical mix with new offerings, those have even lower gross
margins, Pyott said last October in announcing the decision to
sell the business.  The company rose less than 1 percent to $98.86 at the close
of  New York  trading. The shares have gained 14 percent in the
past 12 months.  Pyott declined yesterday to say which bank is running the
auction of the obesity business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  