-- Amgen Agrees to Deal with Bind to Develop Cancer Drugs
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-01-08T21:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/amgen-agrees-to-deal-with-bind-to-develop-cancer-drugs.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s biggest
biotechnology company, will spend as much as $180.5 million for
the right to develop cancer drugs using nanotechnology from
closely held Bind Biosciences.  The two companies will share preclinical development of the
drugs, which will target and block enzymes associated with
cancer. The medicine was developed by Amgen, based in  Thousand
Oaks , California. It will be delivered using technology
developed by Bind, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and
founded by  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  professor
Robert Langer and Omid Farokhzad, an associate professor at
 Harvard Medical School .  The Bind  technology  is meant to selectively target the
cancer cells, making it easier to deliver more potent doses of
the drug there without poisoning healthy tissue. Once the
particles locate the cancer tissue, they can release the Amgen
drug. That may lead to fewer side-effects, according to Bind.
Both companies will share the preclinical work, and Amgen will
handle clinical development.  “Bind’s technology is well aligned with Amgen’s focus on
the development of highly targeted and selective oncology
therapeutics,” said Joseph P. Miletich, senior vice president
of research and development at Amgen, in a statement. “We look
forward to collaborating with the Bind scientific team to
leverage this technology to address unmet medical needs of
cancer patients.”  Bind will receive upfront and development milestone
payments of $46.5 million, with an additional $134 million for
regulatory and sales milestones. If the product is
commercialized, Bind will receive royalties.  Amgen fell less than 1 percent to $88.15 at the close of
 New York  trading. The shares have gained 36 percent in the 12
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  