-- AMR Sees ‘Reasonable Possibility’ of Shareholder Value
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-01-09T22:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/amr-sees-reasonable-possibility-of-shareholder-value.html
     Jan. 9 (Bloomberg) -- AMR Corp., the bankrupt parent of
 American Airlines , says its value has “significantly
appreciated” and there may be a recovery for shareholders, who
generally receive nothing in bankruptcy cases.  AMR, which is considering a merger with  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC) , rose 44 percent to $1.30 at 4 p.m. in New York. It was the
highest value since Nov. 28, 2011, the day before the carrier
sought  bankruptcy protection . The shares trade over the counter.  “Depending upon the ultimate strategic alternative adopted
and pursued, there exists a reasonable possibility that there
may be value for AMR equity holders,” AMR attorney  Harvey Miller  wrote in a Jan. 3 letter to the Office of the U.S.
Trustee, which monitors bankruptcy proceedings. The document was
filed yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due in
October 2014 climbed 3.9 percent to 96.25 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The bonds traded at
17.75 cents after AMR filed for Chapter 11.  US Airways  has been pursuing a merger with Fort Worth,
Texas-based AMR since shortly after the larger carrier filed for
bankruptcy. AMR has a board meeting scheduled for today at which
it had hoped to be ready to decide whether to go ahead with a
tie-up, people familiar with the matter said in December.  Within Weeks  Bruce Hicks , an American spokesman, declined to comment on
the specifics of the airline’s board meeting, beyond citing
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton ’s comment in a Jan. 3 message
to employees that “we expect to bring this to a conclusion
within a matter of weeks.”  “The U.S. Trustee could conceivably appoint an equity
committee, although this late in the bankruptcy process, it
would be quite rare,”  Helane Becker , an analyst with New York-
based Dahlman Rose & Co., said in a report today.  A combination of American, the third-largest U.S. carrier,
and No. 5 US Airways, based in Tempe, Arizona, would create the
world’s largest airline.  US Airways fell 0.2 percent to $15.13.  Miller, of law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, wrote in
the letter that AMR previously opposed the formation of an
equity committee in the bankruptcy case to represent
shareholders because “there did not appear to be a substantial
likelihood” that they would receive “any meaningful
distribution.”  Miller didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail or phone
message seeking comment on the letter after normal business
hours yesterday.  “Since January of 2012, the debtors have made remarkable
progress in stabilizing their businesses and improving their
prospects,” he wrote.  The case is in re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  