-- Man’s GLG Hires Pimco, World Bank Staff as Two Executives Depart
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-01-08T13:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/man-s-glg-hires-pimco-world-bank-staff-as-two-executives-depart.html
Man Group Plc’s (EMG)  GLG hedge-fund
division hired a Pacific Investment Management Co. trader and a
senior adviser at the  World Bank  as it expands products focused
on bonds,  emerging markets  and macro-economic trends.  Pimco’s Kumaran Damodaran joins GLG as a portfolio manager
trading emerging-market fixed income, London-based Man Group
said in a statement today. The World Bank’s Brian Pinto was
hired as a senior macro-economist who will also focus on
emerging markets, GLG said. Man Group also named two co-heads of
a newly combined macro and fixed-income arm at GLG.  Man Group is shaking up GLG’s staff after its $1.6 billion
acquisition of the London-based hedge-fund manager in 2010
failed to boost the company’s share price. Man Group has fallen
about 70 percent over the past two years after losses at its
biggest hedge fund, the AHL computer-driven strategy, lost money
and clients pulled money.  Bart Turtelboom and Karim Abdel-Motaal, who led emerging-
market hedge funds at GLG, will be leaving the firm at the end
of the month as part of the changes, said David Waller, a
spokesman for Man Group. GLG hired Turtelboom and Abdel-Motaal
in 2008 from  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Sudi Mariappa and Jamil Baz will jointly lead the new macro
and fixed-income group, Man said today. Mariappa joined GLG in
October after heading an $80 billion fixed-income unit at
 Newport Beach , California-based Pimco, Man Group said. Baz, who
manages GLG’s Atlas Macro hedge fund, joined the firm in 2008
from Pimco.  The company also announced that Richard Bateson, a
strategist at AHL, has moved over to GLG as a senior
quantitative analyst.  Shares of Man Group, the world’s biggest publicly traded
hedge-fund firm, rose 3.05 pence, or 3.5 percent, to 90.65 pence
as of 12:26 p.m. in  London , giving the company a market value of
1.7 billion pounds ($2.7 billion). The shares are up 24 percent
since the company announced on Dec. 10 that Emmanuel Roman would
replace  Peter Clarke  as chief executive officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  