-- Manchester United Targeting Chelsea’s Lampard: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-08T10:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/manchester-united-targeting-chelsea-s-lampard-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Lampard Chase  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  wants to sign
Chelsea player  Frank Lampard  in the summer, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported.  Lampard, 34, will be able to leave the London club at the
end of the season on a free transfer. Ferguson has been “a
long-term admirer,” of the former England player, the paper
said.  United is also targeting Borussia Dortmund forward  Robert
Lewandowski  for a summer transfer, with the club willing to pay
as much as 16 million pounds ($26 million).  Taison Off?  Chelsea may lose out on signing Brazilian midfielder Taison
in a deal worth 11 million pounds after three other clubs
entered the race for the Metalist Kharkiv player, the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  Although Metalist had already agreed on a deal with
Chelsea, the club is now asking for more money after Manchester
City, Benfica and Shakhtar Donetsk showed their interest.  QPR Lose Out on Remy  Queens Park Rangers manager  Harry Redknapp ’s attempt to
sign Marseille’s Loic Remy has failed as  Newcastle United  looks
to bring the player in, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Redknapp tried to sign Remy when he was managing Tottenham
Hotspur, and offered to send Shaun Wright-Phillips to the French
team as part of the deal.  The Frenchman is “reluctant” to join QPR and prefers to
move to Newcastle, even though the London club was offering
better terms, the paper said.  Biglia to Arsenal?  Arsenal may pay as much as 8 million pounds for
Anderlecht’s Argentina international Lucas Biglia to strengthen
the club’s midfield, the  Independent  reported.  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  last weekend said he wants to
sign “one of two players,” in the January transfer window.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  