-- Anthony-Garnett Clash Ends in Arena Basement After Loss
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-01-08T15:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/anthony-garnett-clash-ends-in-arena-basement-after-knicks-loss.html
Carmelo Anthony of the  New York
Knicks  and  Kevin Garnett  of the Boston Celtics took their on-
court battle into the bowels of Madison Square Garden after last
night’s  National Basketball Association  game.  Video posted on the Comcast New England website shows
Anthony, in a coat and red knit hat, waiting near the Celtics’
team bus after Boston’s 102-96 victory.  The Knicks’ All-Star forward had clashed on court with
Garnett during the game, and ESPN cited two people with
knowledge of the situation saying police and Garden security
were called into the arena’s tunnel afterward.  The NBA is investigating the situation, Stu Jackson, the
league’s executive in charge of discipline, said in an e-mail.  Officer Markowski in the New York Police Department’s
public-information office said in a telephone interview today
that she was unaware of the confrontation. She declined to
provide her first name citing NYPD policy. An e-mail to the
department seeking comment on the case wasn’t immediately
returned.  The 30-second video posted on Comcast shows Anthony, 28,
waiting outside the Celtics team bus, as Knicks coach  Mike Woodson  speaks with him. This came after Anthony followed the
Celtics to their locker room following the game and yelled at
Garnett, according to ESPN.  Woodson declined to comment on the altercation after the
game and Anthony didn’t speak with reporters, ESPN said.  The post-game confrontation was a continuation of physical
play from the fourth quarter, when both All-Stars were issued
technical fouls after trading elbows under the Celtics’ basket.
The two also exchanged words following the play.  Celtics Streak  The Celtics got 23 points from  Paul Pierce  and 19 from
Garnett as they won their third straight game.  Boston evened its record at 17-17 while playing without
 Rajon Rondo , an All-Star point guard who received a one-game ban
from the NBA for making contact with a referee two days ago.  J.R. Smith led the Knicks with 24 points, while Anthony had
20 on 6-of-26 shooting.  New York, which leads the Eastern Conference’s  Atlantic
Division  with a 23-11 record, was limited to 41 percent shooting
and had a two-game winning streak snapped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  