-- Arabtec Surges to 2-Month High on Louvre Contract: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-01-08T12:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/arabtec-surges-to-2-month-high-on-louvre-contract-dubai-mover.html
Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  surged to the
highest level in more than two months after the United Arab
Emirates’ biggest construction company by market value won a
contract to build Abu Dhabi’s branch of the Louvre museum.  The shares rose 5.3 percent to 2.58 dirhams, the highest
since Oct. 31, at the close in Dubai. The stock was the second-
biggest gainer on Dubai’s benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , which
climbed 2.1 percent to 1,727.29, the highest since March 5. A
venture of Arabtec, Constructora San Jose SA and Oger Abu Dhabi
won a 2.4 billion-dirham ($653 million) contract from
government-owned Tourism Development & Investment Co and
construction will start immediately, Arabtec said today.  “The new award could imply strengthening ties between
Arabtec and its new shareholders linked to the Emirate of  Abu
Dhabi ,” said Jan Pawel Hasman, a Cairo-based analyst at EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE. The ties “bode well for the company’s
opportunities in securing government-sponsored contracts in the
future, giving it an edge over local peers,” he said.  Arabtec shares surged 48 percent last year as Abu Dhabi
government-controlled Aabar Investments PJSC raised its stake in
the builder to 21.6 percent. Abu Dhabi, holder of most of the
U.A.E.’s oil reserves, said last year it plans to resume stalled
projects including branches of the Louvre and Guggenheim museums
that were suspended after the global credit crisis brought a
property boom in the U.A.E to a halt.  Worth the Risk  Arabtec’s rally in 2012 outpaced a 20 percent gain in
Dubai’s benchmark index and an advance of 46 percent for real
estate developer  Emaar Properties PJSC. (EMAAR)   Still, the company may post an 18 percent drop in full-year
profit to 214 million dirhams, according to the  mean estimate  of
11 analysts on Bloomberg. Four analysts recommend investors buy
Arabtec shares, while  10 say sell,  according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The profitability of these contracts remains the main
question mark and we could see some pressure on the company’s
margins going forward,” Hasman said, adding that exposure to
seizable awards may require more financing. “Nonetheless,
sustained revenue growth generated by these contracts could be a
sufficient justification for taking such risks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  