-- Harmony Drops for Fourth Day on Mine Closing: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2013-01-08T15:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/harmony-drops-for-fourth-day-on-mine-closing-johannesburg-mover.html
Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  fell for a
fourth day in Johannesburg trading, dropping to the lowest in a
month, after Africa’s third-largest producer of the metal said
it may fire workers and close its biggest mine.  The stock declined 3.1 percent to 66.82 rand by the close
in Johannesburg, taking losses since Jan. 2 to 12 percent. More
than 1.2 million shares changed hands, 86 percent of the three-
month daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company started talks with unions that may result in
the closure of the Kusasalethu mine in Carletonville, west of
Johannesburg, it said in a statement yesterday. About 6,000
workers including contractors at the mine could lose their jobs,
the Johannesburg-based company said. Kusasalethu, which has been
temporarily closed since Dec. 20, reached 22 percent of its
output target for the quarter through December. The company cut
its full-year production guidance to 1.2 million ounces from 1.3
million ounces.  “The fall is justified; it’s a big chunk of their earnings
they could lose if they do close that mine,” Jacques Potgieter,
head of trading at Tradition Financial Services, said in a phone
interview from Johannesburg today. “Unless it comes back on
stream again, there no reason for investors to buy. Investors
steer clear of uncertainty.”  The company hopes to resume production at Kusasalethu by
July, Chief Executive Officer Graham Briggs said at a
presentation in Johannesburg yesterday. About 200 workers will
perform maintenance on the mine during a 60-day review process
which may lead to the closure of Kusasalethu.  The gold miner’s  30-day historical volatility , a measure of
stock swings, rose to 33.73 from 28.84 on Jan. 3. The FTSE/JSE
 Africa  All Share Index’s 30-day volatility gauge was at 9.03
from 9.13 on Jan. 3. A higher reading means an asset’s price can
have bigger moves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  