-- ATK Falls 3% on Rating Cut Citing Shooting: Washington Mover
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2013-01-08T21:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/atk-falls-3-on-rating-cut-citing-shooting-washington-mover-1-.html
Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) , the world’s
largest ammunition maker, fell the most in almost five months
after Cowen & Co. downgraded the shares partly due to potential
fallout from the mass shooting in Connecticut.  The Arlington, Virginia-based company known as ATK declined
2.9 percent to close at $63.30 in  New York  for the biggest drop
since Aug. 10. The shares earlier slid as much as 4.5 percent.  Cowen analyst Gautam Khanna today downgraded ATK to neutral
from outperform. ATK  outperformed  the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index in the fourth quarter of 2012, reaching levels similar to
large-cap defense firms and “limiting relative upside,” Khanna
wrote.  He also cited a risk to earnings following last month’s
mass shooting at an elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut.
The Dec. 14 massacre left 28 dead, including the gunman, his
mother and 20 children.  President  Barack Obama ’s pledge to review gun-control
regulations in the wake of the shooting is a “long-term
perceived risk” to ATK’s civil ammunition business, Khanna
wrote today in a note to clients.  The company sells ammunition to the U.S. military, law
enforcement agencies and sporting outlets. It lists  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and outdoor retailer  Cabela’s Inc. (CAB)  as key customers
in its security and sporting segment, which accounted for 22
percent of the ATK’s $4.61 billion in fiscal 2012 revenue,
according to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings.  Cerberus Capital Management LP, the New York-based
investment firm, said it will seek to sell Freedom Group Inc.,
the largest U.S. gunmaker, after one of its rifles was used in
the  Connecticut  shooting.  Cerberus made the announcement hours after California
Treasurer Bill Lockyer said he would propose that the state’s
public pension funds, the two largest in the U.S., divest
investments in firearm manufacturers that make guns prohibited
under state law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  