-- Australia Feels the Heat of Climate Change
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2013-01-08T17:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/australia-feels-heat-of-climate-change.html
Just a few months after U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Republican nominee
 Mitt Romney  airbrushed  climate change  off the public agenda in the presidential
campaign,  Australia  is providing a sober reminder that political inertia can be
felt a world away. More than 100 wildfires are raging across the driest inhabited continent, and
the country registered a national average temperature of 40.33 degrees Celsius
(104.6 degrees Fahrenheit), the hottest day in more than a century. But while
naysayers continue to question the difference between weather and climate,
scientists in Australia are now displaying signs of "debate fatigue" as policy
makers fail to deliver on the goal of restricting global warming to 2 degrees
Celsius. "Those of us who spend our days trawling -- and contributing to -- the
scientific literature on  climate change  are becoming increasingly gloomy about
the future of human civilization," said Liz Hanna, an environmental-health
scientist and epidemiologist at the  Australian National University , to the
 Sydney Morning Herald . "We are well past the time of niceties, of avoiding the
dire nature of what is unfolding, and politely trying not to scare the
public." Her words are ominous but fall short of the grim forecast of Frank Fenner,
the deceased virologist and founder of the Centre for Resources and Environment
Studies at the same university. Fenner, who played a leading role in eradicating
smallpox, said in a newspaper  interview  in 2010 that global warming had already
gone too far for our species and that humans would become extinct, possibly
within 100 years. Other scientists are less pessimistic, but still contend that policy makers
don't have time to waste. "Our oceans are hotter, the tropics are hotter, so any attempt to disentangle
climate change from what we see in terms of weather doesn't make much sense,"
 David Jones  of Australia's Bureau of Meteorology said in an interview with the
Sydney Morning Herald. The world has always had hurricanes like Sandy and heat waves like the one
now taking place in Australia, but when scientists get tired of blowing the
whistle on the increased regularity of extreme weather events, it will be too
late, even for the skeptics. (David Henry is a Frankfurt-based editor for Bloomberg View.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .