-- Australia Posts Widest Trade Gap Since ’08 on Record Imports
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-08T02:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/australia-trade-gap-widens-more-than-forecast-as-imports-gain.html
Australia’s trade deficit widened in
November to the most since 2008 as transport equipment helped
drive imports to a record, while overseas shipments of iron ore
gained in the mining-driven economy.  Imports outpaced exports by A$2.64 billion ($2.77 billion),
compared with a revised A$2.44 billion shortfall in October, the
Bureau of Statistics said in a report in Sydney today. That was
the widest since March 2008 and exceeded the median  estimate  in
a Bloomberg survey for a A$2.3 billion gap.  The data underscore central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s
decision to reduce  interest rates  four times last year as
commodity prices retreated. Policy makers are trying to revive
demand outside of a resources boom that may crest in the first
half of 2013, while a higher currency is fueling imports.  “People are happy to use the high Aussie dollar to spend
where it’s affordable,” said Ben Jarman, a Sydney-based
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. who noted a jump in imported
cars. “Exports seem to be stabilizing.”  Exports rose 1 percent to A$24.7 billion, led by a 6
percent gain in metal ores and minerals, today’s report showed.
Imports advanced 2 percent to A$27.3 billion on a 6 percent
increase in fuels and lubricants, the report showed.  Coal shipments abroad dropped 2 percent, the report showed,
while transport equipment imports surged 57 percent.  Commodity Prices  “Key commodity prices for  Australia  remain significantly
lower than earlier in the year, though trends have been more
mixed over the past few months,” Stevens said in a statement
after cutting the overnight cash rate target a quarter
percentage point to 3 percent last month. “The terms of trade
have declined by about 15 percent since the peak, to a level
that is still historically high.”  Prices of the nation’s key export, iron ore, have rebounded
since reaching a three-year low on Sept. 5 after  China  announced
spending on new subways and roads.  The Australian dollar declined after the report, buying
$1.0493 at 12:50 p.m. in Sydney compared with $1.0513 before the
data were released. The yield on 10-year Australian government
debt fell to 3.41 percent from 3.43 percent yesterday.  Australia’s economy has been driven by a resource bonanza
for  iron ore , coal and natural gas that is bringing record
investment in projects. The nation’s unemployment rate, at 5.2
percent in November, is lower than 7.8 percent in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  