-- Aussie Dollar Declines on Widening Trade Deficit, Lower Equities
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-01-08T05:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/australian-n-z-dollars-slide-against-yen-on-technical-signals.html
The Australian dollar fell for the
first time in three days after the nation reported the biggest
trade deficit in more than four years.  New Zealand ’s dollar weakened after Asian equities slid by
the most in two weeks, reducing demand for higher-yielding
assets. Both nations’ dollars also weakened against the yen on
speculation recent losses for  Japan ’s currency were excessive.  “The big trade deficit reported in  Australia  and lower
equity markets are driving a risk-off sentiment,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest lender. “That’s pushing the
Australian dollar lower.”  Australia’s currency fell 0.2 percent to $1.0478 as of 4:46
p.m. in Sydney and declined 0.6 percent to 91.70 yen. New
Zealand’s dollar weakened 0.2 percent to 83.57 U.S. cents and
0.5 percent to 73.13 yen.  Australia’s imports outpaced exports by A$2.64 billion
($2.77 billion) in November, the biggest  trade shortfall  since
March 2008, from a revised A$2.44 billion deficit the prior
month, data compiled by the statistics bureau showed today.  Traders see about a 60 percent chance the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia will lower the benchmark  interest rate  from 3 percent
this quarter, according to Bloomberg data on overnight index
swaps. This compares with a less than 20 percent probability
that New Zealand’s central bank will reduce borrowing costs from
2.5 percent.  Consumer Spending  The  New Zealand dollar  remained higher against the
Australian currency, following a two-day advance, after data
showed consumer demand rose in the smaller nation. Spending on
credit and debt cards rose 0.5 percent last month from November,
said Paymark, which processes three-quarters of all card
transactions, in an e-mailed statement today.  The New Zealand dollar traded at NZ$1.2538 per Aussie after
gaining 0.7 percent in the past two days to NZ$1.2548 yesterday.  “The Aussie-kiwi will continue to trend lower,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at Westpac Banking Corp. “The
outlook for New Zealand’s fundamentals is pretty good,” while
Australia’s “economy domestically perhaps has a slightly less
rosy outlook.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares declined 0.6 percent
today, falling for a second day.  Both the Aussie and kiwi dollars weakened against the yen
as technical indicators signaled the South Pacific nations’
currencies had risen too rapidly.  The Aussie’s 14-day relative-strength index climbed to 77
against the yen yesterday, while the kiwi’s indicator advanced
to 75. Readings above 70 indicate an asset price may have risen
too rapidly and be poised to reverse course.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  