-- Mayopoulos Says Buyback Demands Mostly Resolved After BofA Deal
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-01-08T16:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/mayopoulos-says-buyback-demands-mostly-resolved-after-bofa-deal.html
Fannie Mae  is about three quarters of
the way through its effort to force banks to buy back failed
loans originated at the housing bubble’s peak, its Chief
Executive Officer Timothy Mayopoulos said today.  The company’s $11.7 billion settlement with  Bank of
America , announced yesterday, takes care of a significant
portion of its outstanding buyback requests, Mayopoulos said at
a Bloomberg Government breakfast in  Washington .  “With the resolution of Bank of America, I think you’ll
see our total repurchase demand volume down substantially,”
Mayopoulos said. “You’ll see that many of those resources we
were devoting to legacy issues over the last few years can now
be put to other uses.”  Washington-based  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  has flagged underwriting flaws
in about 3 percent of loans originated from 2005 to 2008 that it
purchased and packaged into bonds on which it guaranteed
interest and principal. In addition to Bank of America, the
company has asked   JP Morgan Chase & Co., (JPM)   Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
Citigroup Inc. and others to buy back defaulted mortgages.  The government-owned company, which buys mortgages from
lenders to provide market liquidity, can require that they be
bought back of it finds the loans didn’t meet underwriting
standards.  Fannie Mae had outstanding repurchase requests totaling
$16.2 billion in the third quarter of 2012, according to
regulatory filings. Of that, $10.8 billion involved requests
pending at Bank of America.  Bank of America will make a $3.6 billion cash payment,
spend $6.75 billion to buy back residential loans sold to Fannie
Mae, and pay $1.3 billion in fees for taking too long to assist
or foreclose on overdue borrowers, in the deal announced
yesterday.  Taxpayer Subsidies  Fannie Mae, based in Washington, and its fellow government-
sponsored enterprise, McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac , have
received $190 billion in aid from taxpayers since they were
taken into U.S. conservatorship in 2008 when investments in
risky loans pushed them to the brink of insolvency. The
companies have paid a combined $50 billion in dividends back to
the  U.S. Treasury .  The company’s finances have now turned around, Mayopoulos
said. Fannie Mae reported $9.7 billion in net income in the
first three quarters of 2012, more than it has ever reported in
for a full year, Mayopoulos said.  Republicans and Democrats in Congress and President  Barack Obama  have called for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to be wound
down and replaced. The company’s recent performance should cause
lawmakers to consider the earnings potential for taxpayers,
Mayopoulos said.  “The improvement in the company’s financial condition and
our ability to return value to taxpayers I’m hopeful will cause
people to sit back and reflect on some of the positives that the
GSEs bring forward,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  