-- BAE Butts Into Lockheed’s $3 Billion F-16 Servicing Work
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-01-08T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/bae-butts-into-lockheed-s-3-billion-f-16-servicing-work.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  is encroaching on a
$3 billion market for F-16 upgrades dominated by  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) , which makes the fighter jets.  BAE last year beat the Pentagon’s biggest contractor for a
deal to refurbish about 130 of  South Korea ’s jets. It was the
first time a company other than Lockheed has won such work
through the U.S. Foreign Military Sales program, according to
Dave Herr, president of BAE’s support solutions business.  Now, London-based BAE wants to boost international sales by
taking even more of Lockheed’s F-16 business. “We’re looking at
potentially where to take this next,” Herr said in a phone
interview. “It’s a big opportunity for us.”  Shrinking defense budgets in the U.S. and  Europe  and a lack
of affordable new fighter jets have heightened competition for
aircraft upgrades, said Kevin Brancato, a Washington-based
defense analyst at Bloomberg Government. For Lockheed, this
means defending its turf from rivals that may soon include
Boeing Co., the Pentagon’s No. 2 contractor.  With more than 2,200 F-16s sold outside the U.S. to
countries including  Egypt ,  Turkey ,  Greece ,  Thailand  and  Chile ,
refurbishing the jets offers lucrative opportunities for
competitors to take market share away from Lockheed, Brancato
said.  “Demonstrated performance is what sells, and here BAE is
getting its test,” Brancato said in a phone interview. “They
have a very good chance of winning further business, presumably
because they’re underbidding what Lockheed is offering.”  F-35 Jet  Lockheed may be focusing so much on the F-35 jet, the
Pentagon’s most expensive weapons program, that it let its guard
down on the F-16 work, said  Richard Aboulafia , a defense and
aerospace analyst with Teal Group, a consulting firm based in
Fairfax, Virginia.  “Lockheed Martin has left itself uniquely vulnerable,”
Aboulafia said in a phone interview. “The only thing worse than
cannibalizing your own market is having someone else do it for
you, which is kind of what’s going on here.”  The Bethesda, Maryland-based company may be concerned that
refurbishing older jets could cut into its future market for the
F-35, he said.  The $396 billion F-35 program is behind schedule and
suffering from escalating costs, potentially providing an
opening for contractors offering cheaper upgrade packages to
existing military jets.  F-16 Upgrades  Lockheed is “committed to meeting the sustainment and
modernization needs of F-16 operators around the world for
decades to come,” Benjamin Boling, a company spokesman, said in
an e-mail.  The development of the F-35 doesn’t have any bearing on the
contractor’s commitment to providing F-16 upgrades to its
customers, Boling said.  “While the F-16 remains the most capable and cost
effective 4th generation fighter available today, nothing can
match the 5th generation capabilities that the F-35 offers,” he
said. “The 4th generation and 5th generation markets are
inherently different at this point.”  Lockheed has made more than 1,100 upgrades to F-16s, Boling
said. In September, it won a $1.85 billion deal with the U.S.
Air Force to upgrade 145 of  Taiwan ’s F-16 jets.  The U.S. military has purchased 2,256 F-16s, and other
nations have acquired 2,271, Boling said.  Boeing Competition  Another competitor may soon emerge.  Boeing (BA)  is interested in international F-16 upgrade
opportunities, said Ellen Buhr, a company spokesman.  The Chicago-based contractor has experience with the
aircraft through its work on a program to convert retired F-16s
to drones used for military target practice. It “would welcome
the chance to apply that knowledge to F-16 upgrade efforts,”
Buhr said.  Because budgets for new programs are being reduced in many
countries, “customers are increasingly seeking to extend their
use of current aircraft,” she said. “That opens the door to
upgrade opportunities.”  BAE’s Herr said his company is also looking at “a range of
potential opportunities” to upgrade other aircraft and ships
for international customers.  Some of the F-16s date to the 1980s. The upgrades are
designed to prolong the jets’ lives and to provide more modern
electronics and software packages. BAE provides about 40 percent
of the electronics and other mission equipment used in F-16s as
a subcontractor to Lockheed.  Air Force  BAE isn’t pursuing work with the U.S.  Air Force  to upgrade
its fleet because the service has indicated it intends to stick
with Lockheed, Neil Franz, a BAE spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  The value of the South Korea agreement hasn’t been
disclosed by BAE because the contract is still being finalized.
It was announced in July by the country’s defense acquisition
agency, which said it would seek U.S. government approval of the
deal.  The company has talked with other nations about F-16
upgrades, Herr said, though he declined to identify them. Work
refurbishing the jets for countries other than the U.S. is
valued at as much as $3 billion, BAE estimates.  “We are engaging with a number of other countries and
learning more about their needs,” Herr said. “It’s clear that
more and more nations are voicing an interest and a desire for
another choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  