-- Barge Owners Say Drought May Wipe Out Mississippi Gains
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-01-08T16:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/barge-owners-say-drought-may-wipe-out-mississippi-gains.html
Barge operators on the  Mississippi 
River say the worst drought in 80 years may put at risk gains
from emergency dredging and rock removal aimed at keeping the
nation’s busiest waterway open at least for this month.  “The only way that we could maintain a navigable channel
would be releases from the Missouri River system” if
Mississippi conditions worsen, Scott Noble, a senior vice
president for Ingram Barge Co., said yesterday at a meeting in
southern  Illinois . That option is “probably not very likely,”
he said later in an interview.  Shipping company officials joined the U.S. Coast Guard, the
Army Corps of Engineers and lawmakers including Senator Richard Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, yesterday in Thebes, a hamlet on
the eastern bank of the Mississippi where rocks pose the
greatest hazard to river traffic. Emergency dredging and
excavation work will keep the river navigable for most towboats
at least through this month, Corps of Engineers officials said.  The Mississippi River in a typical January carries as much
as $2.8 billion in cargo, including grain, coal and crude oil,
according to the American Waterways Operators, an Arlington,
Virginia-based industry group. The worst drought since the 1930s
has exposed submerged rock formations and shrunk the river to
levels that may become too shallow for navigation.  Assurances Sought  “We are not out of the woods, and further assurances are
needed to provide industry with certainty that is needed for
sound business and transportation planning beyond January,” Tom
Allegretti, chief executive officer of the waterways group, said
today in a statement. River depths less than 9 feet may impede
tow boats needed to move barges, the operators have said.  The Army’s engineers declined to forecast navigation
conditions for next month or beyond. While precipitation
typically increases during the U.S. spring, the past isn’t
always an accurate indication of the future, said officials
including Noble of Nashville, Tennessee-based Ingram.  “We’re not sure what to expect anymore, and that’s why
we’re probably being a little more cautious and a little more
anxious,” Noble said.  The Mississippi River has dropped to about half its normal
level for early January, according to data from the Corps.  Options Assessed  AEP River Operations LLC, which owns barges and tow boats
that ply the river, has a customer that next month plans to move
cargo from New Orleans to  Chicago , and closing the waterway
might force the shipment onto rail, a more costly option, Martin
Hettel, senior manager of bulk sales at the St. Louis-based
company, said at the briefing.  “Right now we can’t tell them” how their goods will need
to be moved, said Hettel, who declined to name the company or
the product. A decision must be made by Jan. 20-25, “when they
load the vessel,” he said.  Just north of Thebes, about 128 miles (206 kilometers)
south of St. Louis, dredging boats operating from 6 a.m. to 10
p.m. cluster the river, which the drought has turned into a
creek. Tractors on board the vessels scoop mud from the
riverbed. Exposed bedrock pokes through the surface of the
river, creeping up its banks.  A single tow boat with cargo-laden barges, waiting to pass
through the work site, is visible beyond the dredging vessels.
Other boats wait to negotiate a bend in the river, said Mike
Petersen, a Corps spokesman. At night, the river is open for
barges, said Thebes Mayor John Kennedy, a Lowe’s Co. manager.  ‘Pretty Smoothly’  “It seems like it’s running pretty smoothly in the
evenings,” though he’s never seen the river as low as it is
currently, Kennedy said in an interview.  Commodity exporters including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  of
Decatur, Illinois, and St. Louis-based  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the
largest U.S. coal producer, ship on the river. A disruption
might upend U.S. exports, which the Obama administration plans
to double by 2014 from 2009 levels.  Shippers were at odds with the Corps last week after a
National Weather Service forecast showed the river may drop
below 9 feet this week, and become hazardous for most towboats
by the middle of the month. The Mississippi River at Thebes is
now at 11 feet, a reading that will be unchanged at least
through this month because contractors will deepen the channel
by at least 2 feet this week, Major General John Peabody,
commander of the Corps’ Mississippi Valley region, said
yesterday.  10.5 Feet  That means barges, which have been carrying less cargo due
to shallow waters, can begin increasing their loads again.  At St. Louis, the river was a bit less than 10.5 feet deep
yesterday, still higher than the 9 feet needed.  In normal conditions, a tow boat needs 12 feet of water to
operate and can haul 25 barges, each weighing about 2,000 tons,
according to Noble. A 10-foot channel reduces the load to about
15 barges of 1,500 tons each. Noble said in 9 feet of water,
there are eight or nine barges per towboat at about 1,300 tons
each, or 35 percent less than in typical conditions.  The drought has heightened awareness of the need to upgrade
the infrastructure of the nation’s waterways, said Noble. “We
can only put this off for so long,” he said.  AEP River Operations is carrying about 45 percent of its
typical capacity, Hettel said. Operators have limited loads to
avoid having barges scraping the river bottom.  Thebes Channel  “When you start talking about loading barges even lighter,
at what point in time does it just not make economic sense to
load?” Hettel said. The answer, he said, depends on river
conditions. With a deeper channel at Thebes, the company will be
able to move as much as 350,000 tons of additional cargo
downriver from St. Louis in the coming weeks, he said.  Officials aren’t declaring their mission as accomplished.  “The mission is really never accomplished with the
river,” said Representative William Enyart, a first-term
Illinois Democrat, who is optimistic. “I think we’re going to
weather this storm,” he said in an interview on the riverbank.  President  Barack Obama  has been closely monitoring the
river situation, according to Durbin.  “The message I got from the White House is they’ve ruled
out nothing,” he said at the Thebes courthouse, an antebellum
structure where an Obama idol, Abraham Lincoln, is said to have
practiced law. “Everything is on the table.”  Not all options are available. Durbin said a release from
the Missouri River, which shippers have sought for months, would
likely trigger a legal challenge from officials in states that
rely on the tributary for drinking and irrigation supplies. .  The current work is “going to be adequate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  