-- Rothschild Resigns From Barrick Board as Bumi Showdown Looms
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-01-09T21:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/barrick-says-nathaniel-rothschild-resigned-from-board.html
Nathaniel Rothschild , the financier
seeking to take control of  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , resigned as a director of
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  ahead of a February showdown with the
Indonesian coal producer.  Rothschild had been on the board of Barrick, the world’s
biggest gold producer, since April 2010. His resignation, which
took effect Jan. 7, was due to “other time commitments,”
Toronto-based Barrick said yesterday in a statement. Rothschild
declined to comment.  Rothschild, who holds 14.7 percent of the voting rights at
Bumi, is seeking to replace the company’s chief executive
officer and most of its board with his own nominees, with
himself returning as an executive director. Bumi agreed Jan. 6
to his request for a shareholder meeting to throw open 12 of its
14 board seats at an unspecified date next month.  Bumi was founded by Rothschild and the Bakrie Group, a
family-owned empire with investments in  palm oil  to property, in
a $3 billion deal in 2010 that grouped stakes in two Indonesian
coal producers. Its market value has since slumped to 723
million pounds ($1.6 billion) as boardroom infighting and
financial probes prompted moves by both parties to unwind their
collaboration, and Rothschild has sought support for a plan to
remove the Bakries as shareholders of Bumi.  Board Memberships  Rothschild currently has three remaining board memberships,
including at oil and natural gas investing company  Genel Energy
Plc (GENL) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He’s also trustee
of Berma Trust SA and chairman of resources developer JNR Ltd.  Rothschild attended all five of Barrick’s regular board
meetings in 2011 and all four of its special meetings, according
to Barrick’s proxy filing last year.  Barrick  rose  0.2 percent to C$33.20 at the close in
Toronto. The company announced yesterday that it ended talks
over the sale of its African unit to China National Gold Group
Corp. without reaching an agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  