-- Barrick Gold Ends Chinese Talks to Sell African Unit
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-01-08T21:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/barrick-gold-ends-talks-with-china-national-to-sell-african-unit.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the biggest
producer of the precious metal, ended talks over the sale of its
1.44 billion-pound ($2.32 billion) African unit to China
National Gold Group Corp. without reaching an agreement.  Barrick still sees “a lot of value” in the assets held by
its  African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG)  subsidiary, Toronto-based Barrick’s
Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky said yesterday in a phone
interview. Shares of African Barrick fell 21 percent in  London 
yesterday.  African Barrick “does have some opportunities to enhance
that value, and when we looked at that versus ultimately what
China National Gold was talking about, it just wasn’t the right
fit,” Sokalsky said. “We would have liked to have done this
transaction, but it wasn’t about doing this at any cost.”  Sokalsky declined to comment on the specific issues that
led to the end of the talks. Discussions had stalled because of
differences over taxes and legacy issues, Chinese newspaper 21st
Century Business Herald reported yesterday, citing CNG Chairman
Sun Zhaoxue.  The deal would have been the largest gold-company takeover
involving a Chinese company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Barrick said in August that CNG was in preliminary
discussions about buying African Barrick Gold, which would have
given the state-owned Chinese company four mines in  Tanzania .  “This is a big asset, it’s a significant transaction for
anyone, it’s a public company and ultimately over time multiple
things came into the equation,” Sokalsky said. “It just didn’t
make sense for both of us to transact, to ultimately complete a
transaction.”  Rising Costs  Wu Zhanming, the vice president of CNG’s overseas
investment unit, didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone.  African Barrick slumped to 352.1 pence at the close in
London yesterday, the steepest decline since the shares were
first sold in 2010. Barrick  fell  1.3 percent to C$33.14 in
Toronto.  Sokalsky, who replaced Aaron Regent as CEO in June, is
reviewing Barrick’s assets in an effort to improve returns and
cash flow as costs rise. The company has received approaches
from companies interested in some of its other assets, he said
yesterday.  “If there are opportunities to divest assets that are
worth more to someone else than us, we will absolutely take a
look at that,” Sokalsky said. Barrick doesn’t “have anything
to talk about at the moment.”  Illegal Miners  While Barrick will consider new approaches for African
Barrick if it gets them, the company won’t actively solicit
third parties for a sale of the business, Sokalsky said.  Since being spun off by Barrick, African Barrick has
struggled to meet production targets amid operational setbacks
and disruption caused by illegal miners. Selling African Barrick
would have lowered Barrick’s production costs, Brian Yu, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  San Francisco , said in an Aug. 16
note.  In October, African Barrick raised its 2013 forecast for
average costs to $900 to $950 per ounce of gold from a July
projection of $790 to $860.  Barrick “will continue to look for ways to realize value
from the block,” Numis Securities Ltd. in London said in a note
to investors. “However, the news will come as a disappointment
to some who saw it as a potential exit from this under-
performing stock.”  Fewer Deals  Acquisitions in the gold industry have declined as slowing
global growth tightened available credit. There were 175
completed deals worth $6.8 billion in 2012, the lowest in at
least five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There are probably other companies interested in buying
African Barrick, said  David West , a Vancouver-based analyst at
Salman Partners Inc. He didn’t name potential buyers.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see another offshore entity
maybe take a run at it,” West said in a telephone interview.
“This stuff goes on all the time. I’m sure there are a lot more
misses in terms of M&A activity than hits and this is just one
of those misses.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  