-- Barrick to Lead Wave of Gold-Mining Asset Sales in 2013
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-01-08T17:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/barrick-seen-leading-gold-asset-sales-in-2013-corporate-canada.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and its global
competitors are poised to sell assets this year as the companies
seek to reverse two years of share-price declines.  Barrick, the largest producer of the precious metal, held
talks to sell its majority stake in  African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG) ,
which runs the company’s highest-cost mines, before announcing
today the negotiations had ended. CEO Jamie Sokalsky is
reviewing the company’s other assets, and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) ,
the world’s second-biggest gold miner, and  Canada ’s  Kinross Gold
Corp. (K)  are among other producers that may sell assets, according
to Dahlman Rose & Co.  “Every single one of the companies in this industry is
looking for ways to create value, whether it be a spin out, or
being taken over, or a restructuring,”  David Christensen , who
oversees about $450 million as CEO of  San Mateo , California-
based ASA Ltd., said in a Dec. 11 phone interview.  The possibility of increased sales represents an about-face
for an industry that spent $69.7 billion on 410 takeovers and
joint ventures in the last five years, as companies competed to
boost output and reserves. Now gold miners including Barrick say
they’re focused on returns instead of growth after equities
lagged behind gains by the metal for the sixth straight year.  Barrick has received approaches from companies interested
in some of its assets and is continually reviewing its entire
portfolio, Sokalsky said today in an interview.  ‘Being Approached’  “We are being approached by companies, other buyers,” he
said. “If there are opportunities to divest assets that are
worth more to someone else than us, we will absolutely take a
look at that.”  “There are many people that see our assets as quite
attractive,” Sokalsky said. Barrick doesn’t “have anything to
talk about at the moment.”  Selling high-cost or lower-return assets is a way producers
can show investors they’re serious about making better
decisions, said Ari Levy, a  money manager  at TD Securities Inc.
in Toronto.  “That’s one of the steps that the Street is going to be
looking for to see that these companies really are invoking
increased capital discipline,” Levy, who co-manages the TD
Precious Metals Fund and the TD Resource Fund, said by phone
Dec. 20. “The market is absolutely in a ‘show me’ phase.”  Australian Assets  Barrick and Newmont may consider selling or spinning off
Australian assets, where rising labor costs and a stronger local
currency have pressured profit margins, said Adam Graf, a New
York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose. It may also make sense for
 Greenwood Village , Colorado-based Newmont to sell its holdings
in the Yanacocha mine and delayed Conga project in  Peru  and
reinvest the money elsewhere, he said last week in a phone
interview.  “All the major companies have older assets that have
become high-cost, either because they are seeing grade declines
or because they are sitting in countries where the currencies
have appreciated,” Graf said. The other category for potential
sales would be earlier-stage projects or mines that haven’t met
companies’ expectations, he said.  Gold companies announced $1.73 billion of asset sales,
joint ventures and spinoffs bigger than $100 million last year,
77 percent more than in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  South Africa  Among other potential deals, Newmont said Dec. 17 it’s in
negotiations to sell its stalled Hope Bay project in northern
Canada.  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , based in Johannesburg, said in
November it will spin off all except one of its South African
assets after a wave of strikes and above-inflation pay
increases.  Some of Gold Fields’ competitors may consider following
suit this year, Christensen said.  “The South African companies remain the prime candidates
for creating value in that respect,” he said. “The combination
of their local and international asset base makes it an easy
split.”  Some recent deals suggest that investors support asset
sales. Barrick rose 8.9 percent in the week after it disclosed
the African Barrick talks, while  AuRico Gold Inc. (AUQ) , a Toronto-
based producer, soared 21 percent Oct. 10 after announcing a
sale of Mexican assets to billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s Minera
Frisco SAB. AuRico said Dec. 17 it used the proceeds to pay down
debt and would buy back as much as $300 million of its own
shares.  ‘Tough Choices’  Kinross, Canada’s biggest gold miner after Barrick and
Goldcorp Inc., was also among sellers last year. AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. paid the Toronto-based company $220 million in June
for 50 percent of a Brazilian gold mine.  J. Paul Rollinson, who was promoted to replace Tye Burt as
CEO of Kinross on Aug. 1, said later that month he was reviewing
costs and that the new approach may lead to some “tough
choices.” The sale of non-core assets is a possible source of
capital, Kinross said in a Nov. 7 filing.  “The senior management of most of the industry has turned
over in the course of the last 12 to 18 months,” Christensen
said. “That in itself shows an impetus and a drive by the
boards of directors saying that something needs to change.”  CEOs Replaced  Barrick said June 6 it fired Aaron Regent as CEO after it
was “disappointed” by its share price. Newmont last month
named Gary Goldberg, the company’s chief operating officer, to
replace CEO  Richard O’Brien  on March 1.  Barrick fell 24 percent  last year  in Toronto, its biggest
drop since 1997, and 13 percent in 2011. Newmont declined 23
percent in 2012 in  New York , its biggest decline since 2000, and
2.3 percent in 2011. Meanwhile, gold futures have increased for
12 straight years on the Comex in New York, including 7 percent
last year and 10 percent in 2011.  Gold-mining equities have lagged behind gains in the metal
as investors bought exchange-traded bullion funds for exposure
to rising gold prices. Last year, the  S&P/TSX Global Gold Index (SPTSGD) 
of 55 companies fell 16 percent.  At the same time, producers have disappointed investors
with operational slip-ups, cost increases and project delays.
Barrick raised the cost estimate for Pascua-Lama, its project on
the Chile-Argentina border, twice last year, to as much as $8.5
billion, and said it now expects initial output at the mine in
mid-2014 instead of mid-2013.  Spokesman for Barrick, Newmont and Kinross declined to
comment on whether their companies are considering further asset
sales.  Size and Scale  The advantages of size and scale in mining meant that
consolidation has been a predominant theme in the industry over
the past decade. Glencore International Plc’s $33 billion bid
for Xstrata Plc was last year’s biggest takeover worldwide and
would make the combined company the fourth-largest miner after
BHP Billiton Ltd., Rio Tinto Group and Vale SA.  The principle that bigger is better still applies for gold
miners, said Sadiq Adatia, chief investment officer at Sun Life
Global Investments in Toronto.  “You need to see more mergers, it’s an economy-of-scale
game,” Adatia said in an interview on Dec. 20. Gold mines tend
to be in riskier, less politically stable regions, where
operators need to develop social goodwill and relationships with
governments, he said.  “Smaller companies can’t do it, they don’t have the
horsepower,” Adatia said.  Companies will have to take a closer look at all their
assets, TD’s Levy said, and “try to figure out what realistic
returns they can get from them.”  “You can’t love everything that you have,” Levy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  