-- Beiersdorf Rises as Nomura Increases Stock-Price Estimate
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-01-08T10:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/beiersdorf-rises-as-nomura-increases-stock-price-estimate.html
Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  gained the most in more
than two months as strategy changes to boost sales and cut costs
at the maker of Nivea skin cream prompted Nomura Holdings Inc.
analysts to raise their stock-price estimate by 20 percent.  Beiersdorf  jumped  as much as 2.8 percent to 62.56 euros,
the biggest intraday increase since Nov. 2. With volume at 52
percent of the three-month daily average, the stock was trading
up 2.8 percent as of 11:22 a.m. in  Frankfurt , the  biggest gain 
on Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index. (DAX)   Chief Executive Officer Stefan Heidenreich, who joined
Hamburg-based Beiersdorf a year ago from Swiss food company Hero
AG, presided over a  41 percent jump  in the company’s stock price
last year with the so-called Blue Agenda plan that included more
product development in  emerging markets  and revised packaging.
Under his leadership, Beiersdorf has twice raised its forecast
for sales, which had stagnated since 2008.  “Beiersdorf will finally be firing on all cylinders in
2013,” analysts at Nomura, including Guillaume Delmas and  David Hayes  in  London , wrote in a report today. Heidenreich’s
strategic priorities “should enable Beiersdorf to fully realize
the consumer division -- and the Nivea brand’s -- potential.”  Dropping Rihanna  The reorganization, which included restoring the product’s
familiar round blue logo, helped boost Nivea sales 5.4 percent
in the first nine months of 2012. The CEO also dropped pop
singer Rihanna, whom Nivea had used in advertising since 2011,
as the brand’s celebrity endorser.  Nomura estimates Beiersdorf’s stock price will rise to 72
euros a share, versus an earlier estimate of 60 euros. The
analysts reiterated their buy  recommendation  on the stock.  “We have been encouraged by Stefan Heidenreich’s initial
decisions, which we believe have helped to accelerate the
cultural change at Beiersdorf,” Delmas and Hayes wrote.
“Although these first decisions seem to be paying off already,
we think that there is still more to be done.”  Beiersdorf opened a research and development center in
Wuhan,  China , in May and a similar establishment, due to start
operating in 2014, is under construction in  Mexico .  The “renewed focus” on product innovation is “a clear
signal that Beiersdorf’s consumer divisions is now committed to
increasing its innovation rate,” the Nomura analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  