-- Berlusconi Agrees With Voters Disgusted by His Party’s Scandals
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-01-08T11:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/berlusconi-agrees-with-voters-disgusted-by-his-party-s-scandals.html
Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, who was convicted of tax fraud in October, said he
agreed with voters disgusted by politicians linked to corruption
scandals.  “I think exactly like they do,” Berlusconi, 76, said in
an interview on Canale 5, a television station owned by his
 Mediaset SpA. (MS)  “I have never been a politician. I have always
been an anti-politician.”  Berlusconi is seeking to distance himself from scandals at
his party as he battles his own criminal charges of tax fraud,
abuse of power and engaging a minor in prostitution. With
elections next month, Berlusconi must convince voters he is
untainted by the investigations that toppled People of Liberty
governments in Lombardy and Lazio last year. Franco Fiorito, the
former party head in Lazio, was arrested and charged with
embezzlement.  “The voters who were disgusted by what they saw in
politics with the Fioritos etcetera, etcetera, who scandalously
took advantage of public funds for the themselves, convinced
Italians that these politics, these parties, these political
leaders don’t work,” Berlusconi said.  Berlusconi, the most successful Italian politician of the
last two decades, has suffered in opinion polls since he
resigned the premiership in November 2011. To win his fourth
general election, Berlusconi’s People of Liberty, or PDL, would
have to overcome a public approval deficit to its traditional
rival, the Democratic Party headed by Pier Luigi Bersani.  Appealing Conviction  The PDL along with its ally, the Northern League, and some
smaller parties would win 28.8 percent of the vote if elections
were held today, according to a poll by Tecne for SKY TG24. The
Democratic Party and its allies led in the poll with support of
40 percent. Prime Minister Mario Monti and his supporters had
14.3 percent.  In October, Berlusconi was convicted of tax fraud and
sentenced to four years in prison. The billionaire media mogul
remains free as he appeals the sentence, which is tied to film-
rights dealings at Milan-based Mediaset. Berlusconi is standing
trial in the prostitution and abuse of power cases and has
denied the charges.  Carlo Taormina, a lawyer for Fiorito, has said his client
was simply managing an expense organization that was put into
place before he took office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  