-- Billionaire Bulgheronis Sue Repsol to Defend YPF Pact
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-01-08T21:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/billionaire-bulgheronis-sue-repsol-to-defend-ypf-accord.html
Argentina’s Bridas Group, the oil
producer controlled by billionaire Bulgheroni brothers and China
National Offshore Oil Corp., is suing Repsol SA to prevent it
from blocking a $1.5 billion shale-gas project.  The group’s Virgin Islands-based Bridas International and
Bridas Energy Holdings units filed the lawsuit against Madrid-
based Repsol on Jan. 3 in  New York  State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan , saying the Spanish oil producer sent them letters
threatening to seek to block the deal with  YPF SA (YPFD) , according to
court documents.  Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
government seized YPF, the country’s biggest oil producer, from
Repsol in April. Last month Repsol sued  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  in a
federal court in Manhattan, claiming the U.S. oil producer
improperly obtained rights to develop Argentine shale and
natural gas resources.  “Bridas’s suit has no merit, it is trying to delay the
inevitable when it comes to our legal action,” Kristian Rix, a
Repsol spokesman, said in a telephone interview from Madrid.
This lawsuit has made Repsol “take notice” and they expect to
take legal action in the coming days. Mario Calafell, a
spokesman for the Bulgheroni brothers, wasn’t immediately
available to take phone calls, his assistant said.  Bridas Agreement  Bridas wants a court order stating that the question of
YPF’s ownership is for  Argentina ’s court to decide, according to
the lawsuit.  YPF and Bridas agreed on Dec. 28 to invest $1.5 billion to
develop shale oil reserves in Patagonia. The partnership plans
to drill 130 wells. Bridas has promised to provide as much as
$500 million in financing for YPF, “to be repaid in 10 years,”
according to the court documents filed in New York.  YPF has granted Bridas access to Argentina’s official
currency market for the “payments of imports, debt and interest
repayment and dividends to Bridas’s satisfaction,” according to
the documents. To stem capital outflows, Fernandez last year
banned most purchases of foreign currency by individuals.  Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a YPF spokesman, didn’t reply to
phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Bridas International SA v.  Repsol SA (REP) ,
650018/2013, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Laya in New York at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  