-- BofA Escaping Countrywide Helps Moynihan Build: Mortgages
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-01-08T21:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/bofa-escaping-countrywide-helps-moynihan-build-mortgages.html
Bank of America Corp . yesterday
struck deals to settle lending  complaints , sell rights to
service $300 billion of mortgages and repair relations with
regulators. For Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , it
offers his best chance to rebuild the home lending business.  The firm reached an $11.7 billion agreement designed to
resolve most disputes with Fannie Mae two years after Moynihan
said the bank “largely addressed” the liabilities. It sold the
rights to service about 2 million mortgages, and with 9 other
banks, will pay $8.5 billion to end reviews of foreclosure-abuse
claims stemming from a 2011 deal with regulators.  “Resolving legacy issues allows the bank to shift
attention from non-revenue-generating activities to focusing on
growing business,” said Kevin Choquette, an analyst at Scotia
Capital Inc. in Toronto. “You’re going from defense to
offense.”  The Fannie Mae settlement covers most claims from the
bank’s single biggest mortgage adversary, which had purchased
$1.4 trillion in loans from Bank of America and Countrywide
Financial Corp. It’s the latest effort by Moynihan to cap the
damage caused by his predecessor’s 2008 takeover of Countrywide
as the U.S.  housing market  imploded. The firm has tallied almost
$50 billion in costs tied to covering refunds and litigation
from faulty mortgages and foreclosures.  ‘A Mess’  “There’s a lot here that Brian Moynihan had to fix,” Paul Miller, an FBR Capital Markets Corp. analyst, said in an
interview on Bloomberg TV. “I don’t blame any of this on the
current management team. They were given a mess. And they are
working their way through it as best as they possibly can.”  Bank of America’s mortgage originations plunged 37 percent
to $21.3 billion in the third quarter of 2012 from a year
earlier, according to newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance, as the
bank slumped to fourth from first when it acquired Countrywide.
The bank’s reduced role has benefited  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the two biggest originators, which have
enjoyed wider profit margins.  The settlement paves the way for the bank to have a
“regular relationship” with Fannie Mae, after the government-
backed agency last year cut the company off from funding for new
loans, Vipul Jain, an analyst at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , wrote in a
report yesterday.  Bank of America also sold the rights to service $215
billion of home loans to  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  and
$93 billion to  Walter Investment Management Corp. (WAC)  The number of
delinquent loans that Bank of America services will drop by 30
percent, according to Jain.  ‘Legacy Issues’  “As Bank of America clears out the legacy issues, we
expect the focus of the firm to shift back from distressed
servicing to traditional servicing and mortgage lending,” he
wrote.  The moves should help reduce  mortgage rates , which jumped
0.16 percentage point last week to 3.54 percent, by increasing
competition, according to Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by
Mahesh Swaminathan. Bank of America’s issuance share should also
increase, including with Fannie Mae, they wrote.  “We are focused on growing customer share, rather than
market share, and since repositioning our mortgage origination
business, we have seen steady growth,” said  Dan Frahm , a Bank
of America spokesman.  Credit Swaps  Bond and stock investors have shown increased confidence in
the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets. The cost to protect its
debt from default using credit swaps has shrunk to the lowest
since April 2010 and is about the third the level of a year ago.
 Bank of America  fell 0.9 percent as of 4:04 p.m. in New York to
$11.98, paring its gain in the past 12 months to 94 percent.  In the settlement announced yesterday, Bank of America will
make a $3.6 billion cash payment, spend $6.75 billion to buy
back residential loans sold to Fannie Mae, and pay $1.3 billion
in fees for taking too long to assist or foreclose on overdue
borrowers, according to separate statements. Even after these
costs and an additional $2.5 billion for expenses that include
litigation and a separate regulatory settlement, the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based lender said the  fourth quarter  was
“modestly” profitable.  In a separate settlement, 10 of the largest U.S. mortgage
servicers, including Bank of America, agreed to pay a combined
$8.5 billion of  foreclosure  abuse claims from the 2011 deal with
regulators, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and
Federal Reserve said in a statement yesterday.  Bank of America accounted for about $2.9 billion of the
settlement, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
costs. That makes it the largest single participant. About $1.1
billion of the expenses are in cash payments and $1.8 billion
comes in the form of assistance for distressed homeowners.  Faster Payments  The agreement is intended to speed up payments to borrowers
who otherwise would have continued to wait under the case-by-
case review. Eligible borrowers are expected to get payments of
as much as to $125,000, depending on how badly their foreclosure
was handled, the regulators said.  Bank of America does quality checks on mortgages three
times, Moynihan said Dec. 14 in response to questions after a
speech at the Brookings Institution in  Washington .  “We have to make sure the loan we originate is ironclad,”
Moynihan said. “It’s frustrating to me because we can’t get our
loans closed fast enough for our customers.”  While Bank of America has probably dealt with the bulk of
its troubles from Countrywide, it’s battling bond insurer  MBIA
Inc. (MBI)  and other buyers of mortgages demanding refunds.  Unresolved demands that Bank of America repurchase
mortgages rose 12 percent to $25.5 billion as of Sept. 30,
fueled by disputes with Fannie Mae and private investors, the
firm said.  “Cleaning up Fannie Mae is one step in the right
direction, and it’s a good move,” said FBR’s Miller. “We
thought this would be dragged out many years, or at least
another two.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  