-- Kookmin Bank Offers Dollar Debt After Busiest Day in 10 Months
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-08T08:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/bond-risk-falls-in-australia-japan-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Kookmin Bank and  CSI Properties Ltd. (497) 
plan to sell dollar-denominated debt after the busiest day for
offerings by Asia-Pacific issuers in the U.S. currency in more
than 10 months. Bond risk rose in Asia.  Kookmin Bank plans to sell three-year notes at 105 basis
points to 115 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, a person familiar with the matter said, asking not
to be identified because the terms aren’t set. Estate Sky Ltd.,
a unit of Hong Kong-listed developer CSI Properties, is
marketing five-year bonds at about 6.5 percent, a separate
person said. Asia-Pacific companies sold $5.93 billion of U.S.
dollar notes yesterday, the most since $8.5 billion of offerings
on Feb. 21, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Westpac Banking Corp. led issuance from the region
yesterday, followed by Toyota Motor Credit Corp. and Shimao
Property Holdings Ltd. Average premiums on dollar-denominated
bonds from  Asia  held at 250 basis points more than government
debt yesterday, matching a 17-month  low  reached on Oct. 19,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co indexes. The cost of insuring
Asian corporate and sovereign bonds from non-payment is on track
for its first daily increase this year, according to credit-
default swap traders.  “Spreads are so tight and we continue to see fund inflows
so it makes sense for companies to come,” said Agnes Wong, a
Hong-Kong based credit strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “A
lot of the issuers are printing at historically tight spreads
which provides them with very cheap funding.”  Zoomlion Heavy  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose one basis point to 102.5 basis
points as of 1:43 p.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show.  Thai Oil Pcl has hired Barclays Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc and
Standard Chartered Plc to arrange a series of fixed-income
investor meetings in Asia,  Europe  and the U.S. from Jan. 10 to
discuss a possible dollar bond, according to a person familiar
with the matter. A unit of Hainan Airlines Co. has obtained
approval to sell as much as $500 million of seven-year bonds,
according to a statement posted to the Shanghai stock exchange.  Yields on two bonds sold by Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science
and Technology Co. meanwhile rose, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The construction machinery maker halted share trading
after a Ming Pao Daily report which cited an anonymous letter
questioning Zoomlion’s sales figures, Shen Ke, the company
secretary, said in a phone interview.  Prudential Plc is considering a yield of about 6 percent
for a perpetual bond that can be bought back by the company
after five years, a person with knowledge of the sale said.  Risk Indexes  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 0.5 of a basis point
to 112.5 basis points as of 4:37 p.m. in Sydney, according to
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index declined 1.5 basis points to
142.5 as of 2:28 p.m. in  Tokyo , Deutsche Bank AG prices show.
The gauge is set for its lowest level since March 19, according
to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  