-- Brazilian Stocks Drop as Eletrobras Leads Power Utilities Lower
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-01-08T20:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/bovespa-index-futures-fluctuate-amid-brazil-stimulus-speculation.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index fell the most in
six weeks as utilities tumbled amid concern that  Brazil  may
ration electricity because of low reservoir levels at hydropower
dams.  State-controlled  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  was the
worst performer on the gauge after O Estado de S.Paulo reported
the government is considering the risk of energy rationing,
citing a person with the federal administration it didn’t name.
Iron-ore producer MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA and cosmetics
maker Natura Cosmeticos SA tumbled after each separately
disclosed charges from Brazil’s tax authority.  The Bovespa lost 1.3 percent to 61,127.84, extending its
decline since Jan. 3 to 3.5 percent. Forty-five stocks fell on
the measure today while 20 advanced. Trading volume for the
Bovespa’s members was 25 percent higher today than the average
over the past ten days, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
real slid 0.7 percent to 2.0415 per dollar.  “The risk of electricity rationing is something we can’t
rule out right now,” Roberto Altenhofen, an analyst at Sao
Paulo-based consulting firm Empiricus Research, said in a phone
interview. “It depends on factors that are very hard to
predict, such as weather conditions.”  Brazil “sees no risk of electricity rationing,” Deputy
Energy Minister  Marcio Zimmermann  told reporters in Brasilia
today. Reservoirs in northeastern Brazil on average were 32
percent full last month, less than the 34 percent minimum the
government considers safe for the region’s dams, according to
data on the national power grid operator’s  website .  Eletrobras, MMX  Preferred shares of Eletrobras, as Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras is known, tumbled 9.4 percent to 9.69 reais, the
lowest since Dec. 13.  MMX, the iron-ore producer controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , slumped 3.6 percent to 4.29 reais after saying in a
regulatory filing that Brazilian authorities ordered it to pay
3.76 billion reais for overdue taxes. The company said it will
appeal the claim.  Natura dropped 4.7 percent to 55.20 reais. The company said
it will appeal a tax authority order to pay 627.9 million reais.  Banco Santander Brasil SA, the Brazilian unit of  Spain ’s
biggest bank, gained 1.9 percent to 15.07 reais after Banco BTG
Pactual SA raised its recommendation to the equivalent to hold.  The Bovespa earlier gained as much as 0.5 percent after
Valor Economico reported that Brazil may cut taxes this year to
shore up growth, citing an interview with Finance Minister  Guido
Mantega .  The  Finance Ministry  declined to comment on Valor’s report
when contacted by  Bloomberg News .  Embraer Drops  Embraer SA, the world’s fourth-largest plane builder,
retreated 4.2 percent to 13.77 reais, its biggest one-day drop
in more than one month after JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered its
recommendation to the equivalent of sell.  “The stock does not fully account for a decline in
commercial deliveries,” analysts including Joseph Nadol wrote
in an e-mailed note to clients. Embraer will deliver 60 regional
jets from its E-Jet family this year, down from a previous
forecast of 80, according to JPMorgan’s report.  The Bovespa entered a  bull market  on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern that economic growth might
miss expectations and borrowing costs at a record low in Brazil
boosted equity demand. The index has since pared its gain to 17
percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity index  trades  at 11.2 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters, which
compares with a ratio of 10.9 for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 7.51 billion reais in stocks in  Sao
Paulo  today. That compares with a daily average of 7.25
billion reais in 2012, according to data compiled by the
 exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  