-- Bowie Has 66th Birthday Single, First Album in Decade
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-01-08T11:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/bowie-releases-66th-birthday-single-plans-first-album-in-decade.html
David Bowie today broke years of
silence to release a surprise single on his 66th birthday and
announce his first studio album in a decade.  The song, “Where Are We Now,” was mentioned in a Twitter
post and put on the front page of the singer’s  website . It can
be downloaded from iTunes.  It will be followed by “The Next Day” album, which comes
out in March. It will be his first studio collection of new
material since “Reality” in 2003.  The star came to fame with songs such as “Space Oddity,”
“Starman” and “Life on Mars.” His No. 1 hits include “Fame”
and “Let’s Dance.”  He has not sung live for some years. Bowie suffered chest
pain while performing in  Germany  in 2004 and later said it was a
minor heart attack.  The new song and album is produced by Tony Visconti,
Bowie’s New York neighbor and long-time collaborator.  The single returns to Bowie’s time in Berlin, where he made
some of his finest music in the 1970s. He lists some of his
favorite places with the melancholy repeated line “just walking
the dead.”  The song’s video, directed by Tony Oursler, has a puppet
with Bowie’s face on top. He looks older and sad, almost
fighting back tears at one point.  Tour Hope  Fans took to Twitter to praise the new single and express
the hope that Bowie may follow it with a tour. His last live
performances were in 2006, when he joined David Gilmour at
 London ’s Royal Albert Hall and followed that with a charity show
in New York.  After that he curated the 2007 High Line Festival, worked
with Tom Waits and released “A Reality Tour,” a CD of the 2003
shows. Still, he has rarely been seen in public and his
spokesman has denied reports of further ill-health.  Bowie has also released “Live Santa Monica ’72” and box
sets of some of his best albums such as “Station to Station” and
“The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders From Mars.”  Bowie has been living in semi-retirement with his wife,
Iman, and daughter, Alexandria. He turned down Danny Boyle’s
request to headline the Olympic opening ceremony last year. He
also denied that he was involved in curating an exhibition
devoted to him that opens at London’s  Victoria & Albert  Museum
on March 23.  Information:  http://www.davidbowie.com/the-next-day   The album is out March 8 in  Australia , March 12 in the U.S.
and March 11 for the rest of the world.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  James
Russell  on architecture and  Mike Di Paola  on conservation.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 