-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise on Energy Price Concern: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-01-08T21:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/brazil-swap-rates-increase-on-faster-inflation-real-strengthens.html
Brazil  swap rates climbed to a two-
week high on concern the government won’t reach its target for
energy price cuts, forcing policy makers to boost borrowing
costs to curb inflation.  Swap rates on contracts due January 2015 rose nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 7.79 percent, the highest
level since Dec. 21 on a closing basis. The real weakened 0.7
percent to 2.0415 per dollar, the biggest decline in a month, as
investors awaiting fourth-quarter earnings reports sought refuge
in dollar assets.  Brazil’s government is weighing the risks of energy
rationing as reservoirs at the country’s hydroelectric dams fall
to multiyear lows, newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo reported
today, citing an unidentified person within the federal
administration. Central bank policy makers, who left the
benchmark borrowing rate at a record low 7.25 percent at their
last meeting, will announce the next decision on Jan. 16.  “If things get worse with regards to energy, swap rates
could rise because the problem of supply contraction could lead
to higher prices,”  Vladimir Caramaschi , the chief strategist at
 Credit Agricole Brasil SA (ACA) , said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The
inflation scenario worsens if reservoirs continue shrinking.”  The Getulio Vargas Foundation said today its IPC-S gauge,
which monitors prices in Brazil’s seven biggest cities, rose
0.77 percent in the 30 days ending Jan. 7, exceeding the 0.71
percent median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Surprising’ Inflation  “Inflation numbers continue surprising on the upside and
are one of the principal risks for 2013,” Caramaschi said.  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  is among power companies
that fell today amid concern a spell of dry weather in parts of
the country has drained hydropower reservoirs to the point where
energy rationing may be needed.  Brazil “sees no risk of electricity rationing,” Deputy
Energy Minister  Marcio Zimmermann  told reporters in Brasilia
today. The government’s target to cut electricity costs by 20
percent will still be met, even as the low water levels force
the nation to run more-expensive thermal plants to meet demand,
Zimmermann said.  Oil rose, trading near the highest level in almost four
months in  New York  on estimates that U.S. refiners boosted crude
use and amid signs of an economic recovery in  Europe .  Currency Swaps  A gauge of euro-region executive and consumer sentiment
rose to 87 last month, exceeding the 86.3 median of 24 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey.  Brazil’s central bank swung in 2012 between selling
currency swaps to prevent the real from falling too quickly and
offering reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping
the real from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  The real has gained since Dec. 20, when Carlos Hamilton,
the central bank’s director for economic policy, said officials
consider an exchange rate of 2.05 per dollar as more
“adequate” when creating economic forecasts than 2.10.  The annual rate of consumer price increases as measured by
the IPCA gauge has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of the
central bank’s target range for 27 consecutive months. Inflation
unexpectedly accelerated to 5.53 percent in November from 5.45
percent the month before, the statistics agency reported Dec. 7.
The government will release figures for last month on Jan. 10.  About 100 economists in a weekly survey published yesterday
raised their median forecast for the IPCA to rise 5.49 percent
in 2013 from 5.47 percent the week before.  The low reservoirs and rising inflation expectations are
among factors that suggest the real’s appreciation “may be met
with less official resistance than it was in August,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a local markets strategist at RBS Securities
Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an e-mailed report.  From August through October, the bank sold reverse currency
swaps to keep the real weaker than 2 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in em São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  