-- Brennan Chosen for CIA After Role in Bin Laden Operation
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-01-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/brennan-chosen-for-cia-after-role-in-bin-laden-operation.html
Four years in President  Barack Obama ’s White House and a role in overseeing the killing of
 Osama bin Laden  have helped CIA Director-nominee  John Brennan 
overcome a political taint from agency use of interrogation
methods that once doomed his prospects for the job.  Republican lawmakers focused instead yesterday on national
security leaks as likely questions for Brennan’s confirmation
hearings while human-rights advocates concentrated on the Obama
administration’s use of drone attacks for targeted killings
after his nomination was announced.  Brennan’s senior post in the CIA under President  George W. Bush  was so politically damaging four years ago that he withdrew
from consideration for the director’s job after objections from
some Democrats. Human-rights groups had voiced concern that he
supported, or failed to stop, harsh questioning techniques such
as waterboarding, which simulates drowning.  Chosen instead to be White House counterterrorism adviser,
Brennan has been at Obama’s side for some of the most dramatic
moments of his presidency. That has included a key role in
planning the operation to kill or capture bin Laden and
overseeing fixes to security failures exposed by an airliner
bombing attempt on Christmas Day in 2009.  Obama praised Brennan at a White House ceremony yesterday
as “one of our nation’s most skilled and respected intelligence
professionals.”  ‘Personal Bond’  Brennan and Obama have “a real personal bond and trust,”
said Michael Leiter, director of the government’s National
Counterterrorism Center from 2007 to 2011. “Over the past four
years, they have worked together incredibly closely and they
have talked probably every day.”  Paul Pillar , a former deputy director of the Central
Intelligence Agency’s counterterrorism center, compared
Brennan’s path under Obama to the trajectory of former Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates ’s career.  Gates withdrew his nomination to be CIA director in 1987
after controversy over his role at the agency during the Iran-
Contra scandal. In 1991, after serving on President  George H.W. Bush ’s White House staff, he was nominated again for the CIA
post and confirmed.  “The issues hadn’t gone away,” said Pillar, now a senior
fellow at  Georgetown University ’s Center for Security Studies in
Washington. “It’s just that time had passed. It’s similar with
this one.”  Brennan, 57, left the CIA in 2005 after a 25-year career
that included stints in its covert-action and analytic units. He
would replace retired Army General David Petraeus, who resigned
as director in November, citing an extramarital affair.  Leaks Questioned  Republican lawmakers stressed national security leaks in
their misgivings with Brennan. Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , the
No. 2 Senate Republican leader, expressed concern in a statement
that Brennan hasn’t been “exonerated” yet as a source of the
leaks.  “John Brennan has not been absolved of responsibility for
the slew of high-level security leaks that have characterized
this White House,” Cornyn said. “This investigation needs to
be resolved before his nomination can move forward.”  Cornyn and other Republicans have cited leaks they say
appeared geared toward burnishing Obama’s national-security
credentials. Among unauthorized disclosures were that the U.S.
and  Israel  created the Stuxnet computer virus that damaged
 Iran ’s nuclear centrifuges; that Obama personally approves
targets for drone attacks; and that a plot by al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula to bomb a U.S.-bound airliner was foiled
because intelligence officials had infiltrated the terror group.  ‘Offensive’ Notion  “Brennan will need to answer questions about his role in
recent disclosures of classified information before I can
support his nomination,” Senator  Dan Coats , an Indiana
Republican and member of the Senate intelligence committee, said
in a prepared statement.  Obama has denied that White House officials leaked
classified information, calling the notion that they would do so
“offensive.” Attorney General Eric Holder has named two
prosecutors to investigate the leaks.  Brennan’s record as deputy executive director of the CIA
under President George W. Bush and the agency’s use of harsh
interrogation techniques remain a concern for at least some
senators.  Arizona  Republican Senator  John McCain , who was tortured as
a prisoner of war in  Vietnam , said in a statement that he
planned to examine what role Brennan may have had “in the so-
called enhanced interrogation programs while serving at the CIA
during the last administration, as well as his public defense of
those programs.”  Rendition Defense  Brennan defended the CIA’s rendition program, in which
suspected terrorists were sent for questioning to nations that
in some cases practiced torture, as an “absolutely vital tool”
in a 2005 interview on PBS television’s “Newshour.”  He said in a 2007 interview on  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s “The Early
Show” that the CIA’s “enhanced interrogation tactics” had
“saved lives.” Still, in the same interview he said that
waterboarding is “inconsistent with American values, and it’s
something that should be prohibited.”  Vincent Cannistraro, a former CIA officer and National
Security Council official who once worked for Brennan, said his
former boss was never in favor of waterboarding or other extreme
measures, never pushed for them and argued internally that they
were ineffective and prone to producing inaccurate intelligence.  Tom Malinowski, Washington director of  Human Rights Watch ,
said that while his group won’t take a position on Brennan’s
confirmation, it will be urging senators to use the debate to
draw out more specifics about Brennan’s view of the future of
the drone program to kill terrorist suspects. The group wants to
see the program turned over to the military.  Complicated Figure  “We would expect and hope that the Senate asks him
substantive questions, especially about the legal basis for the
drone program and whether he thinks the CIA should retain its
lead role in managing that program,” Malinowski said. Brennan
may be supportive of transferring much, if not all, of the
program to the Pentagon, he said.  Malinowski said Brennan is seen as a complicated figure
because he’s regarded as an influential member of the
administration who has sided with human-rights groups on other
issues. Among other things, he said, Brennan was supportive of
holding civilian trials in the U.S. for the Sept. 11 defendants.  “On a lot of issues, he’s been very much actually on the
side of the angels, in my point of view,” he said.  The Arabic-speaking Brennan is highly regarded by past and
future colleagues at the CIA, who said he possesses a rare
combination of experience, intellect and independence.  “He is a real believer that the job of an intelligence
officer is to describe things the way they are, not the way
people want them to be, and then to let the policy makers decide
what to do,” Cannistraro said. “He’s methodical, and he looks
at everything.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  