-- Top Underwriters Led by BTG See Equities Sales Doubling
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-01-08T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/btg-pactual-sees-equity-sales-doubling-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian equity sales are poised to
double this year as falling interest rates and optimism the
global economy will rebound spur demand for shares, said Grupo
BTG Pactual and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the nation’s two top
stock underwriters.  Companies may sell as much as $16 billion in shares in
2013, said BTG Pactual, which took the No. 1 spot last year from
2011’s leader, Banco Itau BBA SA. Equity sales in  Brazil  tumbled
32 percent in 2012 to a seven-year low of $8.21 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Enthusiasm for Brazilian shares may rise as  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis recedes and slowdowns in China and Brazil
ease, said Fabio Nazari, head of equity capital markets and a
partner at BTG Pactual. Brazil’s central bank cut  benchmark
borrowing costs  5.25 percentage points since August 2011, which
may also make stocks a more attractive investment than bonds.  “We have a lot of big initial public equity offerings in
the pipeline, and international investors are full of short-term
cash to invest right now,” Nazari said in an interview
yesterday at BTG’s headquarters in Sao Paulo.  Brazil’s equity issuance shrank last year even as global
share sales rose 7.5 percent to $478.4 billion, the data show.  “The end of 2012 was a turning point in the stock markets
as a lot of uncertainties have gone away and the U.S. budget
impasse is getting close to being resolved,” Hans Lin, co-head
of investment banking at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
Brazil, said in an interview in Sao Paulo. “Falling interest
rates in Brazil will also help since they will make local
investors seek higher returns buying shares.”  $1.32 Billion  BTG handled $1.32 billion in 22 transactions, not including
its own $1.47 billion initial offering in April. The bank also
ranked first by the number of transactions, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The consumer, retail and infrastructure sectors will be
among the most active and we can start to see stock sales as
early as this month,” Nazari said.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America became the
second-biggest equity underwriter with $1.29 billion handled in
12 transactions, including the $432.4 million deal by health-
insurance broker Qualicorp SA in November. Sao Paulo-based Itau
BBA, the wholesale arm of  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , fell to
fourth place, underwriting $873.4 million in 13 transactions.  Itau declined to comment on its stock-underwriting
business, according to an official who asked not to be named in
keeping with company policy.  ‘Normal’ Fees  The shrinking market reduced fees for banks, which earned
$149 million from equity capital markets underwriting in 2012,
half the previous year’s total, according to Dealogic, the
London-based information and consulting service.  “Fees will slowly grow to a normal level of about $500
million a year,” Lin said.  Bank of America earned $25 million in equity underwriting
fees in 2012, up from $23 million in 2011. It rose to second
place in Dealogic’s fee ranking, from fourth in 2011. BTG earned
the most fees for the year, at $35 million.  Bank of America rose to second from sixth in Bloomberg’s
underwriting rankings after naming Lin and Roberto Correa Barbuti co-heads of the investment-banking unit in Brazil in
November 2011. Barbuti, who was hired by Bank of America in
August 2011, was previously head of Banco Santander Brasil SA’s
brokerage. Additional hiring came in August 2012, when Bank of
America picked up four bankers from Morgan Stanley.  Economic Rebound  Economic growth in Brazil, the world’s largest emerging
market after  China , probably decreased to 0.98 percent last year
from 2.7 percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent in 2010, according to
the median estimate in a Jan. 7 central bank survey of about 100
analysts. This year it will grow 3.26 percent, the analysts
said.  Six Brazil companies withdrew or postponed IPOs last year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Brazilian companies including
CPFL Energias Renovaveis SA and Seabras Servicos de Petroleo SA
postponed or canceled share sales last year as economic growth
slowed and concern increased that government regulations and
intervention in the economy would contribute to losses on Brazil
investments.  Two offerings completed in Brazil last year -- from car-
rental company Cia. de Locacao das Americas and furniture-maker
Unicasa Industria de Moveis SA -- were priced below the lower
end of the companies’ targets. Locamerica, as Cia. De Locacao is
known, fell as much as 28 percent in the two months after the
IPO, and has gained 19 percent since then.  Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock index entered a bull
market on Jan. 3 after rising 21 percent from last year’s low on
June 5. Stocks got a boost from borrowing costs at a record low
in Brazil and central-bank stimulus around the world, which
eased concern that growth might be below economists’ forecasts.  ‘Top Challenge’  “The top challenge for Brazil in 2013 will be how to
attract the attention of the international investor with a still
tiny growth of 3 percent in a world in which the United States
will have a better economic performance,” said Ricardo Lacerda,
chief executive officer of BR Partners, the Brazilian investment
bank founded by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executives.
“New equity issuance in the country is very dependent on
foreign investor demand,” he said in a telephone interview.  That demand will be tested this year by Banco do Brasil SA,
the state-controlled lender that’s planning what would be the
largest IPO in Brazil in three years, a 5 billion-reais deal for
its pension and insurance unit. The bank expects the offering
sometime in the first half of 2013, Alexandre Abreu, vice
president of the bank’s retail business, said in a telephone
interview on Nov. 26.  Tupy, Votorantim  Tupy SA, the largest foundry in Latin America, is preparing
an equity offering of 1 billion reais for this year, three
people with direct knowledge of the matter said last month.  Votorantim Cimentos SA, the biggest cement producer in
Brazil, is preparing an IPO of at least $3 billion, according to
three people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Votorantim hired Banco Itau BBA and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
manage the deal and will include additional banks, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plan hasn’t
been made public. The IPO will take place sometime this year,
they said.  “Such a move is not Votorantim’s actual plan,” the
company said in an e-mailed statement on Dec. 19. Tupy and Banco
do Brasil declined to comment on sale plans.  A total of 13 share offerings totaling 623 million reais
are being reviewed by the Brazilian securities regulator, known
as CVM, which has to approve the deals.  “The Brazilian equity markets will have a better year
during 2013 because the government is still giving signs it will
retreat from its intervention in many sectors like banks,” BR
Partners’ Lacerda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  