-- Buffett Railroad Sees Crude Cargo Climbing 40%
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-01-08T13:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/buffett-railroad-sees-crude-cargo-climbing-40-.html
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  LLC, the
railroad owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , will
boost crude-oil shipments by 40 percent this year, helping blunt
a decline in coal cargo, Chief Executive Officer  Matt Rose  said.  BNSF will spend “a couple hundred million dollars” on
capital improvements to haul more petroleum to refineries from
the Bakken shale formation in the northwestern U.S., Rose said
in a telephone interview. Crude oil shipments will grow to
700,000 barrels daily by the end of this year, he said.  Crude from the Bakken, which is putting the U.S. on course
to become the world’s biggest oil producer by 2020, is helping
the second-biggest U.S. railroad buck an industrywide slump in
commodity cargoes.  Fort Worth , Texas-based BNSF’s raw material
volumes were little changed in 2012 as competitors posted
declines, based on Association of American Railroads data.  “We’re the 1,000-pound gorilla in the oil markets,” said
Rose, 53, who has been CEO for 12 years. “Crude by rail is
going to be really strong for us. It’s been a real benefit to us
to replace some of that lost coal business.”  BNSF, which Buffett took over three years ago in a $26.5
billion deal, saw coal shipments fall 6.2 percent last year,
compared with an average drop among North America’s seven
largest railroads of 9.8 percent, railroad association data
show. Chemicals carloads grew 26 percent, the most among peers.  The railroad carried more coal than its bigger rival,  Union
Pacific Corp. (UNP) , every year from 2007 through 2012, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Both companies’ networks are
centered west of the  Mississippi River .  Tank Cars  BNSF isn’t the only piece of Berkshire’s empire benefiting
from increasing output of shale oil produced by hydraulic
fracturing. Union Tank Car Co. is already working at full
capacity to produce rolling containers that carry the fuel in
trains.  Rose is exploiting what he once projected would be a
fleeting opportunity as the U.S. grows its oil production by the
most since the first commercial well was drilled in 1859. Now he
sees a “longer-term picture” moving petroleum by freight train
because his network is more flexible than a pipeline can be.  BNSF is working with customers to build new loading
facilities connected to its 32,000-mile (51,500-kilometer) rail
network and plans to deliver crude to refineries in California,
Oregon and Washington, Rose said.  It’s in talks with  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)  and  CSX Corp. (CSX)  to
carry crude to East Coast customers including Delta Air Lines
Inc.’s refinery in Trainer,  Pennsylvania , near Philadelphia,
Rose said.  Crude Refineries  CSX is negotiating with western and Canadian railroads to
allow shipments of crude oil east to “a number of refineries
and terminals,” Lauren Rueger, a spokeswoman for the company,
said in an e-mail. Robin Chapman, a spokesman for Norfolk
Southern, said he couldn’t immediately comment.  “When you look at the flexibility of where this crude can
go, this can be a very long-term business venture,” Rose said.
“We’re out there right now working with a plethora of customers
creating destination plants that allow this crude to get in
markets where, five years ago, it would have been unthinkable
that we’d be bringing crude into a place like Philadelphia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  