-- California Asks Federal Judges to Cancel Inmate Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-01-08T19:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/california-asks-federal-judges-to-cancel-inmate-cuts.html
California  asked a panel of federal
judges to cancel a court-ordered reduction of the state’s prison
population, saying shortcomings involving inmate health care and
overcrowding have been rectified.  Governor  Jerry Brown ’s administration said in papers filed
yesterday that improvements to inmate-care programs and prison
hospital construction, as well as shifting of low-level,
nonviolent felons to county jails and use of alternatives to
incarceration such as electronic monitoring, make the reduction
unnecessary and unsafe.  Federal judges stripped California of control of its prison
health-care system in 2006 after inmates filed a legal challenge
to its quality. The judges then ordered the state to cut its
prison population to 137 percent of capacity from 175 percent,
saying overcrowding was a cause of the inadequate care. The U.S.
Supreme Court upheld that order in May 2011.  “The overcrowding and health-care conditions cited by this
court to support its population reduction order are now a
distant memory,” the state said in yesterday’s filing. “Given
the superior health-care system that now exists, continued
enforcement of the population reduction order would be
inequitable, violate principles of federalism, and jeopardize
public safety.”  Since 2006, California has cut its inmate population by
43,000. Half of that cut, Brown said, is a result of his program
to shift control of low-level felons to individual counties.
Still, California’s prisons remain at about 150 percent
capacity, above the ceiling set by the courts.  Private Prisons  Brown, who was California’s attorney general when the
federal courts took over, also today signed an executive order
declaring an end to a state of emergency former Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  declared in 2006 because of prison overcrowding.
That allows him to phase out California’s use of out-of-state
private prisons such as those run by  Corrections Corp. of
America , which now house almost 9,000 of California’s inmates.  Brown was forced to comply under protest with a court
deadline yesterday for the state to detail how it would further
reduce the inmate count. He called the state’s prison health
care “gold-plated” and vowed to take his plea to the U.S.
Supreme Court if necessary.  Design Problems  “We have gone from having serious constitutional problems
to having one of the finest prison systems in the U.S.,” Brown
told reporters in Sacramento today. “We don’t have a prison
overcrowding problem anymore. It’s simply a design problem. It’s
time we return control of prison health-care back to
California.”  The cases are Coleman v. Brown, 90-520, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of California ( Sacramento ); and Plata v.
Brown, 01-1351, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  