-- Cameron Defeats Opposition in Vote on Welfare Cap
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-01-08T19:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/cameron-faces-opposition-in-vote-on-welfare-cap.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
defeated opposition plans to block legislation for a cap on
welfare payments after threats of a parliamentary rebellion and
a warning that the changes will hurt the poor the most.  The  Welfare Benefits Up-Rating Bill , which passed a second
reading in the House of Commons in  London  today by 324-268, is
 intended to limit increases  in so-called social-security
payments to 1 percent for two fiscal years starting in April
2014. The  Institute for Fiscal Studies   said yesterday  that 2.5
million workless households out of 2.8 million getting help will
be worse off by an average of 215 pounds ($345) in the second
year. Consumer-price inflation was 2.7 percent in November.  Sarah Teather, a former education minister from Cameron’s
Liberal Democrat coalition partner, said she would vote against
the plans. She condemned the government proposals as “petty
games,” citing rhetoric from ministers that pits “strivers
versus skivers.” Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  has pledged to help the “strivers” who go out
to work while people on benefits stay home with the curtains
closed.  “The bill is about picking up the pieces, sorting out the
deficit and being a responsible government,” Work and Pensions
Secretary Iain Duncan Smith told the House of Commons in a
debate ahead of the vote. “The reality is that we are reforming
the welfare system to make it better and easier for people who
are in part-time work to have improved incomes.”  Austerity Program  Osborne extended his austerity program by another year in
his autumn statement last month as the government struggles to
find ways to save money. While about a third of  government
spending  goes on welfare, most of that is used to pay state
pensions. Jobless benefits account for about 2.6 percent of all
expenditure, while support for those in work accounts for about
20 percent, according to the IFS.  “We are learning today who is being asked to pick up the
bill for this catastrophic economic failure,” said  Liam Byrne ,
who speaks for the opposition  Labour Party  on welfare. “It is
not Britain’s millionaires who are picking up the tab, it is
Britain’s working families. The measures in the bill are a
strivers’ tax, pure and simple.”  Political Rhetoric  Political parties in recent weeks have hardened their
rhetoric against welfare amid polling evidence that such
policies are  popular with voters . Last week, the Labour Party
called for a compulsory jobs guarantee for the long-term
unemployed, making state welfare payments dependent on paid
employment.  “Ministers think that the benefits up-rating cap will
bring them a political dividend that is as effective at
delivering votes as it in reducing the living standards of
millions of people on low to middle incomes,” Frances O’Grady,
the new general secretary of the  Trades Union Congress , said in
an e-mailed statement. “Support for the measure depends on
voter ignorance. Those with the most inaccurate view of the
current system are the most likely to support change.”  Duncan Smith denied the government was treating retirees as
a “protected species,” saying the long-term cost of pensions
will fall sharply as a result of changes now under way.  “Fairness to pensioners is to give them time and make sure
you support their income, and at same time reform the way they
save,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  