-- Carlyle Sets Rate on $2.9 Billion of Loans for DuPont Unit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2013-01-08T20:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/carlyle-sets-rate-on-2-9-billion-of-loans-for-dupont-unit-1-.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-
largest private-equity firm, set the  interest rate  it will pay
on $2.9 billion of loans it’s seeking to back its purchase of
 DuPont Co. (DD) ’s auto-paint unit, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction.  A $2.3 billion seven-year term loan will pay interest at
4.25 percentage points more than the London interbank offered
rate, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private. Libor, a rate banks say they can
borrow in dollars from each other, will have a 1.25 percent
floor.  The debt is expected to be sold to investors at 99 cents on
the dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the company
and boosting the yield to investors.  A $200 million euro denominated term portion is expected to
pay interest 25 basis points higher than the larger, dollar-
denominated term piece, according to the person.  Term-loan  lenders are being offered one-year soft-call
protection of 101 cents, meaning the company would have to pay 1
cent more than face value to refinance the debt during the first
year, said the person.  The financing also includes a $400 million, five-year
revolving line of credit that will pay interest at 4 percentage
points more than Libor, with a 100 basis-point fee being paid
up-front, the person said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
points. Funds under the revolver can be obtained in more than
one currency.  Commitment Deadline  Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Morgan Stanley, UBS AG, Jefferies Group Inc.
and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. are arranging the debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors have until
Jan. 17 at 5 p.m. in  New York  to let the banks know whether they
will participate in the deal, the person said.  Leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, will be 5.6 times total, the data
show. The debt is rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service and B+
by  Standard & Poor’s .  Carlyle Group  is acquiring the business from Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont for $4.9 billion and the transaction
expected to close during the first quarter, according to an Aug.
30 company statement.  The deal is poised to be the largest buyout financing to be
raised in the U.S. since Kinetic Concepts Inc. obtained a $2.45
billion loan in November 2011 for its purchase by Apax Partners
Inc., Bloomberg data show.  More than $639 billion of loans were obtained by
speculative-grade rated companies in the U.S. in 2012,
surpassing levels from the previous year by about 8 percent. [bn:PRSN=2064489]   Randall Whitestone [], a spokesman for Carlyle Group, and
 Michael Hanretta , a spokesman for DuPont, declined to comment.  Blackstone Group LP is the world’s largest private-equity
firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chapin Wright at 
 cwright4@bloomberg.net  