-- Chile Peso Falls as Slowing Inflation Spurs Intervention Concern
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-01-08T17:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/chile-peso-falls-as-slowing-inflation-spurs-intervention-concern.html
Chile ’s peso depreciated as a report
that showed inflation at the slowest pace since 2010 fueled
speculation the central bank may intervene to stem the
currency’s gains.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 472.14 per U.S. dollar at the
close of trading in Santiago after earlier touching a three-
month high of 469.10. It has strengthened 1.5 percent this year,
the best performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices  were unchanged in December from November
and  annual inflation  slowed to 1.5 percent. Data published
yesterday by the central bank showed that the economy grew 5.51
percent in the 12 months through November and the country’s
trade surplus unexpectedly reached a 20-month high in December.  “Inflation reinforced the idea that local fundamentals are
solid,” said Alejandro Araya, a currency trader at Banco
Santander Chile in Santiago. “The idea that the central bank
will have to adjust rates is ever closer and the dollar keeps
falling. The question is at what point does the central bank
intervene. Below 470 pesos per dollar the risk-return changes
because of the chance of intervention.”  The central bank last intervened in the currency market in
2011, buying $12 billion of U.S. dollars to weaken the peso.  Finance Minister Felipe Larrain today said the government
was monitoring the exchange rate and shared exporters’ concerns
about the strength of the currency.  “Based on economic fundamentals, the peso should have been
at this level for a while,” said Andres de la Cerda, a trader
at Bice Inversiones in Santiago. “The big question is what the
central bank will do.”  One-year breakeven inflation rose seven basis points today
to a seven-week high of 2.8 percent. The two-year rate was
little changed at 2.79 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  