-- China to Encourage Dividend Payouts to Lure Investors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-08T07:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/china-to-require-30-company-dividend-payout-to-lure-investors.html
Chinese companies trading on the
 Shanghai Stock Exchange  will be encouraged to pay at least 30
percent of their annual profits to shareholders as the bourse
seeks to lure more investors to equities.  Companies that fail to do so will need to disclose the
reason in annual reports, the Shanghai exchange, the nation’s
main bourse, said in a dividend-payment guideline on its  website 
yesterday. There was no mention of penalties in the statement.  “This is the first time the Shanghai exchange has issued
such a guideline on dividend payments,” said Wu Kan, a
Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which
oversees $285 million. “This makes dividend payments for
companies more implementable and is positive for the market.”  Guo Shuqing, chairman of the China Securities Regulatory
Commission, has encouraged dividend payments, tightened rules on
delisting companies and cut trading costs to boost the appeal of
 Asia ’s third-largest stock market. The CSI 300 Index of the 300
biggest companies on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges
entered a  bull market  yesterday after rallying 20 percent from
last year’s low on signs economic growth is picking up.  “Only the establishment of an efficient and stable
dividend-payment mechanism for listed companies can attract
long-term institutional investors seeking steady dividend
returns and reasonable  capital gains ,” the exchange said in the
statement. “That’ll make the valuations of the market
reasonable and stable.”  Dividend Tax  The average  dividend yield  of the 994 companies in Shanghai
Composite Index is 2.5 percent, compared with 2.7 for the MSCI
Emerging-Markets Index. The Shanghai index lost 0.4 percent to
2,276.07 at the close. The measure rebounded 17 percent through
yesterday from an almost four-year low set on Dec. 3.  The Shanghai index trades at 12.6 times  reported earnings ,
compared with a record low of 10.8 in December, according to
daily data compiled by Bloomberg since 2006.  As of the end of 2011, 347 companies in the Shanghai
exchange paid dividends for three consecutive years, accounting
for 40 percent of the companies that have gone public for at
least three years, the Shanghai exchange said in the statement.  China announced last year it would cut the stock dividend
tax by half for individuals who hold shares for at least one
year to encourage long-term investment.  The  tax rate  would be lowered to 5 percent starting this
year, the Ministry of Finance said in November. The rate was
doubled to 20 percent for those who hold shares for one month or
less and kept unchanged at 10 percent for those who held
equities between one month to one year.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from William Bi in Beijing.
Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  