-- China Insurance Watchdog to Veto Ping An Sale, Morning Post Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-01-08T23:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/china-insurance-watchdog-to-veto-ping-an-sale-morning-post-says.html
China’s insurance regulator is set to
reject Charoen Pokphand Group’s proposed $9.4 billion purchase
of  HSBC Holding Plc (5) ’s stake in  Ping An Insurance Group Co. (2318)  on
concerns the group may not be able to fund the acquisition, the
South China Morning Post reported.  The China Insurance Regulatory Commission has doubts CP
Group can afford the purchase and is “increasingly concerned”
about whether the Thai company is the real buyer, the Hong Kong-
based newspaper said today, citing unidentified people close to
the CIRC.  Charoen Pokphand should “do more to explain where and how
it will get the money” for the purchase, especially if the
government-owned  China Development Bank , or CDB, isn’t providing
the funding, the Post said, citing one of the people. The
deadline for the CIRC’s approval is Feb. 1, the Post said.  Ping An’s Shenzhen-based spokesman Sheng Ruisheng didn’t
answer a call to his mobile phone, while calls to Charoen
Pokphand’s corporate communications department went unanswered
before office hours. Gareth Hewett, a spokesman for HSBC in  Hong
Kong , declined to comment.  Ping An fell by the most in more than five months in Hong
Kong trading yesterday, dropping 4 percent to HK$68.15,  after a
media report said the CDB halted loans for Charoen Pokphand’s
purchase. The company’s American depositary receipts  fell  4.6
percent to $17.31 in U.S. over-the-counter trading yesterday.
Each ADR represents two common shares.  Unhappy Regulator  HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank by market value, said Dec. 5 it
agreed to sell its 15.6 percent stake in Ping An to Thai
billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont as it moves to revive profit and
boost capital. Caixin reported last month that about two-thirds
of the first payment of the deal came from Chinese investors and
that Ping An’s management may have helped finance the Chinese
backers, which both the insurer and Charoen Pokphand denied at
the time.  CIRC Vice Chairman Chen Wenhui said he wasn’t happy with
“how the game was played,” in reference to the deal, the  South
China Morning Post  reported today, citing one of the people
close to the regulator.  CDB, a policy lender, halted the loans after issuing a risk
warning in December and notified the CIRC, Caixin reported
yesterday. The Post had a similar story yesterday.  The deal is “in normal approval process,” Ping An’s Sheng
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday, without elaborating, in
response to an inquiry about the story on CDB’s withdrawal of
funding. Sheng earlier called Caixin’s report last month
“irresponsible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  