-- China B Shares Rise for 15th Day, Longest Streak: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-01-08T06:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/china-b-shares-rise-for-15th-day-longest-streak-shanghai-mover.html
China’s B shares  rallied for a 15th
day, the longest stretch of gains in two decades, on speculation
more companies will move their listings to Hong Kong in an
effort to lure investors and boost their valuations.  The Shanghai B-Share Stock Price Index of foreign-currency
traded shares gained 3.9 percent to 265.86 as of 1:31 p.m. local
time, poised for the highest close since Aug. 17, 2011. The 15-
day, 18-percent rally would be the longest since February 1992.
The index is up 31 percent from a July low.  Livzon Pharmaceutical Group Inc. (200513)  may convert its Shenzhen-
listed B shares into Hong Kong-listed H shares,  China  Business
News reported today, citing an unidentified person. This follows
a Dec. 26 report from Credit Suisse Group AG that said  China
Vanke (000002) , the largest property developer, may be planning to move
its B-share listing to Hong Kong. The company has suspended
stock trading since Dec. 26 because of “important matters,”
according to a statement to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange.  “With expectations that more B-shares are converting into
H-shares, investors are buying these stocks, as they are cheap
now and may gain in value in the future when they are
converted,” said Xu Shengjun, an analyst at Jianghai Securities
Co. in  Shanghai .  The Shanghai B-shares index trades at 7.7 times estimated
earnings, compared with 9.8 for the A-shares index and 8.9 for
the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Hong Kong-listed
Chinese stocks.  Vanke and Livzon would be joining China International
Marine Containers Group Co., the first Chinese company to leave
the B share market for the Hong Kong bourse where the daily
trading volume is more than 3,000 times larger, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Moving to Hong Kong would give these
companies direct access to global investors as funding channels
remain restricted on the Chinese mainland.  Valuation Discrepancy  “Because of the valuation discrepancy, B shares will
either move over to H shares to get a revaluation, and the rest
will eventually disappear,” Hao Hong, Hong Kong-based China
strategist at Bank of Communications Co., wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Because of the thin volume, it’s
difficult to buy B shares. Any small move has resulted in limit
up situation, especially recently.”  Hong said there are “30-odd” B-share companies that are
qualified to move their shares to Hong Kong. There are a
combined 106 companies listed in the Shanghai and Shenzhen B-
share indexes.  China’s B-share markets were set up in 1992 to give local
companies a way to raise funds from foreign investors, who were
banned from buying securities denominated in  yuan . Foreigners
and Chinese individuals are allowed to trade B shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  