-- China’s Imports May Boost Rice in Lean Years, Shanghai JC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-08T09:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/china-s-imports-may-boost-rice-in-lean-years-shanghai-jc-says.html
Rice imports by  China , the world’s
largest producer, may cause a shortage and spark a rally in
prices in lean production years, said Li Qiang, managing
director at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.  China quadrupled imports in 2012 to become the second-
largest importer, from the 18th biggest in 2011, amid record
production, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Dec. 11. The
country imported 2.6 million metric tons of rice in 2012,
compared with 575,000 tons a year earlier, and will import 2
million tons this year, the USDA said.  Rising imports by China, the largest consumer, may bolster
prices even as world inventories tracked by the UN’s Food &
Agriculture Organization swell to a record with the biggest
global crop ever. While rice, the staple for half the world, has
risen 3.1 percent in  Chicago  in the past year, it is 18 percent
below a three-year high in September 2011. Most purchases by
China, which typically imports from  Thailand , were of Vietnamese
origin this year.  “Rice demand and supply in China needs to be closely
monitored in the future to see if such a rising trend of imports
will persist,” Li said. “That could present a challenge,
especially when problems such as weather or pests reduce output
in the neighboring countries.”  The country may import less this year because the central
and provincial governments boosted spending on subsidies to
farmers in an effort to ensure self-sufficiency, Li said.  China produced 143 million tons of milled rice last year,
while consumption reached 144 million tons, according to the
USDA. While there’s no shortage in China, processors increased
imports to profit from the difference between domestic and
overseas rates, Bai Peipei, an analyst at Beijing Shennong Kexin
Agribusiness Consulting Co., said on Dec. 12.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  