-- China to Hold 2-Year Trial for Private Mobile Service Providers
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-01-08T09:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/china-to-hold-2-year-trial-for-private-mobile-service-providers.html
China will conduct a trial for
private companies to offer repackaged mobile services to users
that will end the monopoly of state-controlled carriers in the
country’s phone services industry.  The Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology  has
proposed a two-year trial to allow Chinese non-state owned
companies to purchase mobile network bandwidth from existing
operators and rebrand the services to end users, it said in a
posting on its website today. The ministry is seeking public
feedback on the proposal till Feb. 6.  China Mobile Communications Corp., the nation’s largest
wireless carrier, and all other phone and broadband Internet
carriers in the world’s biggest mobile-phone market by users are
state owned. The government will encourage and introduce private
capital to boost competition and service quality in the
telecommunications industry, the ministry said on its website.  “This new measure is a moderate attempt to break the
monopoly,” said Eric Qiu, an analyst at Guosen Securities Co.
Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “China has talked about opening up its
telecommunications sector and breaking the monopoly for a long
time, but there haven’t been many detailed policies.”  China’s State Council, the country’s highest government
body, said in May 2010 it would encourage private investment in
the telecommunications industry and promote competition.  Foreign investment in the country’s phone and broadband
Internet carriers is limited to minority holdings in publicly
traded units listed in Hong Kong.  China Mobile Communications, which had a total of 707
million mobile subscribers at the end of November, is the parent
of Hong Kong-listed  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  China United Network
Communications Group, parent of Hong Kong-listed  China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd. (762) , was second with 236 million mobile users,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Telecommunications Corp., parent of Hong Kong-listed
 China Telecom Corp. (728) , had 158 million wireless users.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  