-- China’s Stock Index Falls on Valuation Concerns; B Shares Rally
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-08T07:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/china-s-stock-futures-rise-vanke-may-advance-on-sales-outlook.html
China ’s benchmark stock index fell
for the first time in five days on speculation a rally that
drove valuations to a seven-month high was excessive. A gauge of
foreign-currency traded shares rallied for a 15th day, the
longest streak in two decades.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048)  and China Merchants Property
Development Co. led declines for a gauge of developers, the best
performer in  Shanghai  last year, on concern gains in  home prices 
will lead to new property curbs. Ping An Insurance (Group) Co.
plunged 3.7 percent after Caixin Online reported China
Development Bank halted a loan to Charoen Pokphand Foods PCL for
its purchase of stake in the insurer. Health-care and consumer-
staples companies climbed after underperforming during a bull-
market rally for the CSI 300 Index over the past month.  “The market is seeing some profit-taking after a nice run-
up,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “There’s some
sector rotation going on with laggards playing catch-up.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.4 percent to 2,276.07
at the close, even as about two stocks rose for each one that
fell. The measure has rebounded 16 percent from an almost four-
year low on Dec. 3 on signs economic growth is picking up.  The Shanghai Composite trades at 12.6 times reported
earnings, the highest level since June, according to daily data
compiled by Bloomberg since 2006. The 14-day relative strength
 measure , measuring how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped
during a specified time period, was at 77.7 yesterday. Readings
above 70 indicate a price may be poised to fall, according to
some traders.  Property Stocks  The CSI 300 slid 0.4 percent to 2,525,33 today after
entering a  bull market  yesterday with a 20 percent climb from
its 2012 low on Dec. 3. A gain of 20 percent or more signals a
bull market to some investors. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  slid 1.9 percent today. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) 
fell 0.9 percent in  New York  yesterday.  A gauge of property stocks in the Shanghai index slumped
1.2 percent, the most among five industry groups. The property
measure jumped 38 percent last year, compared with a 3.2 percent
gain for the Shanghai Composite.  Poly Real Estate, China’s second-largest developer by
market value, fell 1.2 percent to 13.78 yuan. Merchants Property
sank 2.2 percent to 29.99 yuan. Gemdale Corp., the fourth
biggest, dropped 1.7 percent to 7.11  yuan .  Gain in home prices in December may trigger new property
curbs, Dai Fang, an analyst at Zheshang Securities Co., said by
phone today. In its more than two-year effort to rein in prices,
the central government raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements, imposed a property tax for the first time in
Shanghai and Chongqing, increased building of low-cost social
housing, and placed home-purchase restrictions in about 40
cities.  Ping An  Ping An, the second-biggest Chinese insurer, slumped 1.76
yuan to 45.46 yuan. China Development Bank halted a HK$44
billion loan to Charoen Pokphand for its purchase of a stake in
Ping An, Caixin Online reported, citing an unidentified person
from the bank.  A  China Development Bank  spokesman didn’t answer office and
mobile phone calls seeking comment. Suthana Hongthong, an
assistant vice president for Charoen Pokphand, declined to
comment on the report while Dhanin Chearavanont, the company’s
chairman, was not immediately available to comment.  SAIC Motor Corp., the biggest automaker, lost 2.5 percent
to 16.91 yuan. The stock rose to its highest close since July
2011 on Dec. 31. Jiangsu Yueda Investment Co., which makes cars
with Kia Motors Corp., slid 2.6 percent to 11.44 yuan.  B Shares  Shanghai’s B-share index jumped 2.6 percent today in a 15-
day rally that’s the longest ever according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s up 29 percent from a July low.  Livzon Pharmaceutical Group Inc. may convert its Shenzhen-
listed B shares into Hong Kong-listed H shares, China Business
News reported today, citing an unidentified person.  “With expectations that more B-shares are converting into
H-shares, investors are buying these stocks, as they are cheap
now and may gain in value in the future when they are
converted,” said Xu Shengjun, an analyst at Jianghai Securities
Co. in Shanghai.  Chinese stocks have rallied over the past month on
speculation the government will introduce more  measures (SHSZ300)  to
bolster an equities market that was the worst performer among
so-called BRIC nations last year. The  Shanghai Stock Exchange 
said yesterday it’s encouraging listed companies to pay cash
dividends of at least 30 percent of their net profits.  “This is the first time the Shanghai exchange has issued
such a guideline on dividend payments,” said Dazhong
Insurance’s Wu. “This makes dividend payments for companies
more implementable and is positive for the market.”  Laggards Advance  Average trading volumes in the Shanghai Composite were up
29 percent from the 30-day average. Thirty-day  volatility  was at
20.2, compared with last year’s average of 17.1.  Measures of health-care and consumer staples stocks
advanced 2.3 percent and 2.4 percent respectively, the most
among the CSI 300’s industry groups.  A gauge of technology stocks rose 1.9 percent, led by a 4.7
percent gain for NavInfo Co. China ordered all new heavy trucks
and some new towing trucks in nine regions to install navigation
systems that have both the Beidou satellite positioning system
and U.S.’s Global Positioning System, according to a statement
on the Ministry of Transport’s website.  Health-care, consumer staples and technology stocks climbed
10 percent, 11 percent and 12 percent respectively from Dec. 3
through yesterday, compared with the 20 percent gain for the CSI
300. Only the utilities gauge performed worse.  Kangmei Pharmaceutical Co. (600518)  jumped 5.1 percent to 14.10 yuan
while Hualan Biological Engineering Inc. gained 3.1 percent to
23.30 yuan. Kweichow Moutai Co., China’s biggest producer of
baijiu liquor by market value, rose 3.2 percent to 210.84 yuan.
Wuliangye Yibin Co., the second largest, climbed 2.1 percent to
28.13 yuan.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  