-- Chuck Hagel Is No Susan Rice
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-01-08T16:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/chuck-hagel-is-no-susan-rice.html
President  Barack Obama , it turns out,
is a floater of names.  Last fall, the name of United Nations Ambassador  Susan Rice 
was mentioned for secretary of state. We know how well that
worked out. Then last month we began to hear the name of former
Republican Senator Chuck Hagel for secretary of defense. This
nomination is likely to end far more successfully.  Rice was torn apart by senators who wanted to use the
attack on the U.S. special mission in Benghazi, Libya, to damage
the president, as well as by those who wanted the job to go to a
male rival they liked better. (Actually, the membership of both
groups is the same: Republicans  John McCain  of Arizona and
 Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina .) Although the Benghazi report
held Rice blameless, she was gone by the time it came out.  You would think that the president, fresh from that
beating, would have kept the name of his nominee for secretary
of defense to himself. Not at all. Obama left Hagel twisting in
the wind for weeks as opposition to his nomination grew.  This time, however, a barrage of criticism didn’t hold
Obama back. Hagel’s announcement ceremony took place as
scheduled yesterday. He had stuck it out, and now the full force
and firepower of the White House will kick in. It’s a little
odd, given how the president famously doesn’t like to fight.  Bipartisan Opposition  Obama may think that Republicans will be less militant in
defense of their foreign-policy worldview than they were in
defense of millionaires. Yet so far, they have set the alarm to
 DEFCON 1  for Hagel’s nomination. Opposing it are hawks who
resented Hagel’s votes  on Iraq  (he voted for the war initially,
though he gave a skeptical speech, and then against the troop
surge), and the pro-Israeli lobby, which resents him for a lot
of reasons, especially his suggestion that the U.S. talk to
Hamas.  Then there is the other side of the aisle: Because Hagel is
not a Democrat, Democratic support for him is not a given.
Those who count votes say there could be a dozen Democratic
votes against Hagel. Democrats who don’t like him have one main
question: Why is the newly re-elected president nominating a
Republican for one of the top four Cabinet posts? More to the
point, now that Democrats have stolen a march on Republicans on
national-security issues, why is Obama turning to a Republican
for defense? Obama might still be pining for bipartisanship, but
congressional Democrats aren’t.  One aspect of the opposition that appears to be truly
bipartisan is from gay groups. Way back in the dark ages of
1998, Hagel called James C. Hormel, who eventually became
ambassador to Luxembourg, “ openly aggressively gay ” and
criticized his nomination.  But that is a sin that Hagel has since apologized for, and
Hormel has accepted the apology. “While the timing appears self-
serving,”  Hormel said , “the words themselves are unequivocal.”  Obama wants Hagel to help him chart a new course. The
president may have needed former Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
and outgoing Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  -- the hawk from
the previous administration and the hawk from his previous
campaign -- to bolster his military cred in his first term. Now
he has cred to spare, what with his drone program and the
killing of  Osama bin Laden .  What Obama needs to be able to do is talk back to the
generals. Hagel can help him do that, and that’s why Republicans
are so upset. Hagel’s flip on Iraq disturbed their comfortable
certainty. Letting Army General David Petraeus have his way with
the surge gave Republicans a fig leaf with which to claim
victory there. It bought them time to get out without admitting
defeat.  Bipartisan Support  Like other politicians who have actually been to war  --
such as former Democratic Senator  Jim Webb  and former Republican
Secretary of State  Colin Powell , who are fellow Vietnam veterans
-- Hagel knows war is hell, not a talking point on a Sunday-
morning show. He has the shrapnel to prove it. Not all veterans
share his views, of course; McCain came out of Vietnam as a
hawk. It will be easier for McCain to get his way on Iran
without Hagel at the Pentagon standing in his way.  This is why the usual institutional deference doesn’t apply
to Hagel. The cautious  John Kerry , the Democratic senator Obama
has nominated for secretary of state, will sail through because
a Democrat doesn’t threaten the Republican foreign-policy
establishment in the same way an infidel Republican does. Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  predicted a lot of “tough
questions” for Hagel and said he would “wait and see.” Graham
said he was disposed to oppose Hagel, as did Senator  Ted Cruz  of
Texas. Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas called the nomination of
Hagel the “worst possible message we could send to our friend
Israel.”  This doesn’t mean Hagel is doomed. Although his brow is
always furrowed, he’s a low-key, likeable guy, unless he happens
to endanger your shaky intellectual firmament.  Senate Democrats 
will surely get Hagel to 51 votes, if not 60. Senator  Jack Reed 
of Rhode Island, highly regarded by both parties, is on board.
 Barney Frank , the openly gay former member of the House from
Massachusetts who is likely to become an openly gay interim
senator, was initially critical but now says he favors Hagel.  In truth, Hagel isn’t that far out of the mainstream. He
has gathered his own bipartisan posse consisting of old foreign-
policy hands such as Brent Scowcroft -- and why not? Hagel is a
decorated war hero and a former two-term senator who served with
distinction. If he hadn’t cited  the influence of  the “Jewish
lobby” in intimidating many on  Capitol Hill , his votes for full
funding of Israeli aid would get more notice.  It may be hard for his fellow Republicans to see all this.
They are too busy defending their mistaken hawkishness from all
enemies, foreign and domestic.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 