-- Cigna CEO Cordani Says Death-Benefits Unit Ready to Go
-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-01-09T14:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/cigna-ceo-cordani-says-death-benefits-unit-ready-to-go.html
  Cigna Corp. (CI) , the third-biggest U.S.
health insurer, is ready to get rid of its death-benefits unit
and may make a deal as soon as this year, Chief Executive
Officer David Cordani said.  The insurer has spent the last 18 months restructuring the
business and may unload it this year if “the right market
conditions unfold,” Cordani said in an interview at the
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  health-care conference in San Francisco.  The unit, closed to new business since 2001, has been a
drag on Cigna’s stock because of the risk inherent in policies
whose costs shift based on fluctuating  interest rates , said
Brian Wright, a Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. analyst in  New York .
While Wright said the insurer may have to pay someone to take
the business, Cordani said the unit, which has 475,000 annuity
contracts and $1.7 billion in reserves, may lure buyers with an
appetite for risk.  “It will run out for another decade and a half, so someone
who wants to run it out, it’s an attractive proposition,” he
said in the interview on Jan. 7.  Cigna has transferred its Variable-Annuity Death Benefits
unit to a separate entity and adopted hedging strategies that
make its financial impact more predictable, the CEO said. The
Bloomfield, Connecticut-based company is now ready to take “the
final step” with options that include selling the business, he
said.  Price Bounce  The  insurer  rose less than 1 percent to $54.54 at 9:49 a.m.
in New York trading. The shares had gained 25 percent in the 12
months through yesterday. Even if Cigna has to pay to get rid of
the unit, its stock price probably would benefit, Wright, the
Monness Crespi analyst, said in a phone interview.  “People have been hoping for a release from those
liabilities for quite some time,” he said. While Cigna has been
talking about moving the business for years, “if he’s making
the comment that they’re entering the final stages, that does
sound promising.”  The unit still generates investment income and might be
attractive to a reinsurance company or hedge fund, said  Ana Gupte , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York. While
she declined to speculate on a potential price, “the assumption
has been that David would have to pay somebody to take the
liability,” she said by telephone.  “It would be a bit of a hit to Cigna’s balance sheet but
the liability would go away,” she said.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , based in  Minnetonka , Minnesota, is
the biggest health insurer based on market capitalization,
followed by Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  and then Cigna.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Skillman at 
 bskillman1@bloomberg.net  