-- Colleges Resist Free Online Courses, Undercutting Promise
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2013-01-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/colleges-resist-free-online-courses-undercutting-promise.html
U.S. colleges are resisting adding
free online courses because academic leaders say the much-
publicized approach is unlikely to make money and could confuse
the public about their degrees, a study says.  Only 2.6 percent of U.S. institutions offer such courses
and an additional 9.4 percent plan to, according to a survey to 
be released today by Babson College in Wellesley,  Massachusetts .
 Harvard University ,  Stanford University  and the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology are among institutions participating in 
MOOCS, or massive open online courses.  Colleges, teaming up with online educational providers such
as Coursera Inc. and EdX, say the free courses have the
potential to revolutionize higher education by lowering costs
and providing access to top U.S. professors. While institutions
explore how to charge fees and grant course credit, Jeff Seaman,
co-director of the Babson Survey Research Group, says the report
shows there is skepticism among some academics.  “It’s clearly not ready for prime time,” Seaman said in a
telephone interview. “People are saying this could make a real
difference, but they’re not convinced there’s a sustainable
business model.”  The new survey marks the 10th year that Babson has
conducted a survey of U.S online education. With help from the
 College Board , a New York-based higher-education nonprofit group
which counts universities among its members, Babson received
responses from 2,800 colleges that enroll more than 80 percent
of students.  Pearson, Sloan  Pearson PLC (PSON) , the London-based based education and
publishing company, which provides online services, and the
Sloan Consortium, a nonprofit group promoting online higher
education, sponsored the survey.  Online courses already have a firm foothold in the academic
world. About 6.7 million students took at least one online
course during the fall 2011 term, about 9 percent more than the
previous year and more than four times the number in 2002.
Almost a third of college students take at least one course
online.  More than three quarters of academic leaders rate the
learning outcomes of online education as the same or superior to
those in face-to-face classes. Yet, fewer than a third of chief
academic officers said faculty members “accept the value and
legitimacy of online education,” according to the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 