-- Consumer Credit Rose in November on U.S. Auto, Student Loans
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-01-08T21:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/consumer-credit-rose-in-november-on-u-s-auto-student-loans-1-.html
Consumer credit  in the U.S. increased
more than forecast in November, led by borrowing for student
loans and automobiles.  The $16 billion gain followed a $14.1 billion advance in
October, Federal Reserve figures showed today in  Washington . The
median  forecast  of 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a $12.8 billion November rise.  With sustained gains in the labor market, reflected by
December’s 155,000 increase in payrolls, and strong demand for
student loans and  cars , economists expect consumer credit to
continue to grow in the early months of 2013. The ability to
borrow, combined with an improved labor market, signals consumer
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy,
will bolster the expansion.  “We’ve seen four straight months now of very significant
increases in overall consumer credit,” Thomas Simons, a money
market economist at Jefferies Group Inc. in New York, said in a
phone interview. “I would expect that’s going to continue.”  Stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down
for a second straight day, as investors awaited the start of the
corporate earnings season. The 500 Index declined 0.3 percent to
1,457.14 at the close in New York.  Survey Results  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey for consumer credit
ranged from gains of $5 billion to $20 billion. The October
increase was previously reported as $14.2 billion.  The report doesn’t track debt secured by real estate, such
as home equity lines of credit and home mortgages.  Non-revolving debt , such as that for college tuition or
auto purchases, climbed $15.2 billion in November, the most
since June, after increasing $10.6 billion in October.  Borrowing probably continued to grow last month.  General
Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC posted
December U.S. vehicle sales gains that exceeded analysts’
estimates, completing a year of growth that helped propel the
country’s economy.  U.S. deliveries of cars and light trucks climbed 10 percent
for Chrysler, 4.9 percent for GM and 1.6 percent for Ford,
according to company statements. The demand in the last two
months of the year was boosted by customers who delayed their
shopping due to Sandy or rushed to stores after their old
vehicles got damaged by the superstorm.  Student Loans  Lending by the federal government, which is mainly for
educational loans, increased by $4.9 billion in November before
adjusting for seasonal variations, today’s report showed.  Revolving debt, which includes credit cards, rose by $816.9
million in November, after a $3.44 billion increase the prior
month.  Households may resort more to credit cards in coming months
after the payroll tax rose as a part of the Jan. 1 deal to avoid
the fiscal cliff, according to Michael Englund, chief economist
of Action Economics LLC in Boulder,  Colorado . The levy climbed
to 6.2 percent of income from 4.2 percent.  “People might be caught by surprise in January, when they
see how much smaller their take-home pay is, and we might see
some fuel for the consumer-credit number,” Englund said in a
phone interview. “The likely pattern is that we will see some
run-up in consumer credit for three or four months.”  Congress passed a budget deal including the two-percentage-
point payroll tax increase earlier this month as a way to avoid
the larger tax increases and spending cuts known as the fiscal
cliff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  