-- Cop Says Waste in News Corp. Probe Led to Tabloid Phone Call
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-01-08T16:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/cop-says-waste-in-news-corp-probe-led-to-tabloid-phone-call.html
The London police detective accused
of trying to sell details of a probe into phone hacking at  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid said she was driven by anger
over the investigation’s use of counter-terrorism resources.  April Casburn, 53, told jurors on the second day of her
criminal trial that she called the News of the World’s news desk
on Sept. 11, 2010, with a tip about the perceived waste at the
 Metropolitan Police Service  because she felt the hacking probe
was diverting money away from saving lives.  “I felt very strongly that we shouldn’t be doing
hacking,” Casburn, a detective chief inspector with the Met,
said in testimony today. “Our function was to prevent terrorist
attacks and I was particularly worried that the behavior of my
colleagues was such that they thought it was a bit of a jolly --
they thought it was all going to be a bit of fun, getting to
travel, getting to see famous people.”  Casburn, who was charged last year with misconduct in
public office, is the first person on trial since the start of
three police investigations into wrongdoing at News Corp.’s U.K.
newspapers, including the interception of voice mail messages
for celebrities such as actors Hugh Grant and Angelina Jolie.
More than 80 people have been arrested.  News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch closed the News of the
World in July 2011 to help quell public anger over the phone-
hacking scandal, while the bribery probe has focused on his Sun
tabloid, Britain’s best-selling daily newspaper.  Six Suspects  Casburn, who led a unit probing the financing of terrorism,
called the News of the World to reveal that a new phone-hacking
probe had started and six potential suspects were linked to the
tabloid, prosecutor Mark Bryant-Heron said in court yesterday.  The investigation was prompted by news articles suggesting
an earlier phone-hacking probe of the News of the World in 2006
had failed to uncover the extent of the illegal practice.  Casburn admits making the call and says she didn’t seek a
bribe. The News of the World didn’t print the information or
take her up on her alleged offer to trade secrets for cash.  “What you are doing here is whetting the News of the
World’s appetite,” Bryant-Heron told Casburn today. “You
anticipated an ongoing corrupt relationship didn’t you?”  Casburn replied that “I did not want money, I had no need
for money.”  Dean Haydon, the police detective who led the 2010 probe
into News Corp., said today Casburn wasn’t authorized to release
information about the probe, even if some details had become
public in newspaper articles citing unnamed sources.  Police Leaks  “Clearly there were police leaks or journalists jumping to
conclusions,” Hayden testified. “The important thing for me,
leading this investigation, is that I wanted to be in the
driving seat for what we did, how we did it, and when we did
it.”  One of the suspects Casburn discussed was Andy Coulson, the
tabloid’s former editor who was then the chief press aide to
Prime Minister David Cameron. Coulson resigned from Cameron’s
staff in 2011 and was later charged in the phone-hacking and
bribery probes.  Casburn only gave the names of two of the six suspects, and
all of them had been identified by journalists in articles about
the scandal, her lawyer, Patrick Gibbs, said today.  Two days before the phone call, “all of these six names
appeared to be, in one form or another, repeatedly referred to
in the public domain,” Gibbs said.  At the time, Casburn was under stress and being bullied at
work in a male-dominated environment, Gibbs said. Casburn said
the situation made her feel the best option for airing her
concerns was to go to the press.  The phone call “clearly wasn’t a good idea, but I still
feel that sometimes this is the only course of action open to
someone,” Casburn said. She broke into tears during her
testimony today, saying she was worried she would lose custody
of her child as a result of the criminal charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  