-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Rise; BofA Sells $6 Billion in Bonds
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-01-08T22:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-as-european-economic-confidence-rises.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
advanced for the first time in three days as the corporate-
earnings season began.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 0.7
basis point to a mid-price of 85.6 basis points at 4:39 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure was as low as 84.3 basis points earlier as an
index of economic confidence in the euro region rose for a
second month to 87 in December from 85.7, the European
Commission in Brussels said today, exceeding the 86.3 median of
24 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  kicked off
the earnings season after the market close, reporting earnings
of 6 cents per share, excluding a gain on the sale of a power
plant and other one-time items, matching the  average  of 20
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “A lot of eyes will be on Alcoa,” Mark Pibl, head of
credit strategy at Cortview Capital Securities LLC, said in a
telephone interview from New York. “It’s not so much about what
fourth-quarter earnings are, but more about what the year ahead
is going to look like; that’s what we’re listening for, and that
starts today.”  Sales of the largest U.S. aluminum producer fell to $5.9
billion in the last quarter, beating the $5.6 billion average of
11 estimates. Alcoa’s conference call about the results was
scheduled for 5 p.m. New York time.  Earnings Growth  Analysts are predicting a 2.9 percent growth in fourth-
quarter earnings per share for companies in the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Profit in
financial companies is expected to rise 17.9 percent in the
quarter, the data show.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bank of America Corp. , the second-biggest U.S. lender by
assets, sold $6 billion of bonds in a three-part offering. The
lender issued $1 billion of 1.25 percent, three-year debt to
yield 95 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, $2
billion of 2 percent, five-year securities at a relative yield
of 125 basis points and $3 billion of 3.3 percent, 10-year notes
to yield 150 basis points more than benchmarks, Bloomberg data
show.  High Yield  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt was 1 basis
point wider at 4.86 percentage points today, with the spreads on
the bonds of  utility companies  advancing 12 basis points to 9.44
percentage points, Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk
debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower
than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 3.4 basis points to 443.8 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of  Yum!
Brands Inc. (YUM)  rose 4.3 basis points to 70.2 basis points as of
3:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  The owner of the Taco Bell and KFC chains said fourth-
quarter same-store sales fell 6 percent in  China , more than the
previous estimate of a 4 percent decline, after a government
probe into one of its former suppliers hurt demand. KFC sales in
the country in the last two weeks of December had a
“significant impact” from “adverse publicity associated with
a government review of China poultry supply,” the Louisville,
Kentucky-based Yum said in a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  