-- Credit Distortions Push Structured-Note Sales Higher in Europe
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-01-08T12:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/credit-distortions-push-structured-note-sales-higher-in-europe.html
Distortions between bonds and
derivatives that  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. say
will be a feature of European markets in 2013 helped push sales
of debt-linked structured notes to a four-year high last year.  Germany ’s  DZ Bank  AG and Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg
together with UBS AG of Switzerland led sales of $42.7 billion
in Europe and  Asia  in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compared with $40.2 billion the previous year,
and was the most since $55.1 billion of issuance in 2008.  Investors are piling into corporate bonds searching for
higher-yielding alternatives to  government securities , pushing
yields on company debt to record lows. The cost of insuring
against company defaults in the  derivatives market  hasn’t fallen
at the same speed, so investors get more from selling credit-
default swaps than from buying bonds, a so-called positive
basis.  “A big positive basis makes credit-linked notes a very
attractive substitute for bonds,” said Rainer Overbeck, head of
structured credit trading at DZ Bank in  Frankfurt . The lender
sold the most debt-linked structured securities in 2012, at $9.9
billion, Bloomberg data show.  When the cost of default protection exceeds the extra yield
investors demand to hold a company’s bonds over the swap rate,
or the z-spread, investors can profit by buying credit-linked
notes that lock in the difference, said Overbeck.  Daimler Notes  Daimler AG (DAI) , the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks, was
the most popular corporate reference credit for the notes last
year. Banks sold 16 securities worth $972 million tied to the
company’s debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Daimler exceeded the z-
spread on the company’s $2 billion of debt coming due in
November 2013, which is the main reference bond for the notes,
by 166.1 basis points on Sept. 27, the most since at least the
beginning of 2006, Bloomberg data show. The difference is now
111.42 basis points.  Steelmaker  ArcelorMittal is  the company whose debt was most
frequently tied to by structured notes in 2012, with 62 notes
worth $554 million, Bloomberg data show. The basis between its
five-year default swaps and its $1.49 billion of debt coming due
in June 2018, the main reference bond for the notes, reached the
most in three years on May 17 at 182.3 basis points, Bloomberg
data show. It’s now negative 61.8 basis points.  Shell Basis  The cost of contracts protecting debt from default exceeded
a measure of yields on about 400 investment-grade bonds from
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to Paris-based yogurt-maker  Danone (BN)  SA by
an average of 31.6 basis points in December, up from 24.9 in
September, according to data compiled by Morgan Stanley. That
compares with an all-time low of minus 116 basis points in 2008
and an average of 12.8 in January 2012. The data refer to
corporates that are members of Markit Group Ltd.’s iBoxx indexes
and also have an investment-grade rating and a liquid CDS
contract.  “The positive bond-CDS basis prevalent in European
investment-grade companies continues to make the switch from
cash bonds to CDS attractive,” said Denis Gardrat, the head of
European credit structuring at BNP Paribas in  London .  BNP Paribas, JPMorgan and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are among
banks recommending positive-basis trades in 2013.  Record-low yields on corporate bonds, which have helped
create a positive basis for many European corporates, may cause
investors to turn their backs on credit this year, said Gardrat.  Corporate bond yields plunged to a record 1.91 percent on
Dec. 31 from 4.4 percent at the start of 2012, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporate Index shows. Yields have since
risen to 2.01 percent.  Credit-linked notes tend to have higher yields and tailored
maturities that may not be available in the  bond market , and as
such the securities will prove popular among investors searching
for yield, said Nordine Farsi, head of structured credit trading
at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in London.  Investors in credit-linked notes suffer losses if the bank
issuing the securities or the reference entity defaults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  