-- Cumulus Hedge Fund Jumped 39% in December on German Power Wagers
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-01-08T12:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/cumulus-hedge-fund-jumped-39-in-december-on-german-power-wagers.html
Cumulus Energy Fund, a European gas
and power hedge fund with $176 million under management, surged
39 percent in December after correctly predicting a slump in
 German electricity  prices.  The increase in its Class A U.S. dollar shares led to a
2012 gain of 24 percent and a 400 percent return since inception
in 2006, according to a letter sent to investors and obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  “The main driver was a very large gain from German power,
where extremely bearish weather caused a complete collapse in
spot prices over the Christmas period,” London-based Chief
Investment Officer Peter Brewer wrote in the letter. “This was
supported by gains in all other markets (especially U.K. natural
gas and Nordic power), with the sole exception of coal hedges.”  German power for 2013 delivery, the European benchmark,
slumped 4.3 percent in December, the biggest monthly decline
since October 2010, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. It dropped to a record 44 euros a megawatt-hour on
Dec. 27 as day-ahead prices turned negative.  Germany  seeks to generate more than a third of its
electricity from renewables as the country exits nuclear energy.
Utilities including EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE)  may prefer to pay users
rather than halt fossil fuel-fed plants when turbines and solar
cells push power supply above demand.  Brewer didn’t immediately answer calls to his office and
mobile phone.  Cumulus Energy Fund was bought last year by City Financial
Investment Co., a London-based asset manager that also owns
Cumulus Fahrenheit Fund, a weather derivatives fund focused on
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  