-- Cuomo Seeks to Tighten New York Assault-Rifle Ban After Newtown
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-01-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/cuomo-seeks-to-tighten-new-york-assault-rifle-ban-after-newtown.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  will
propose stricter gun regulations after U.S. shooting massacres
in 2012 renewed calls for tighter firearms control.  The 55-year-old Democrat, who will outline his third-year
agenda in the State of the State speech tomorrow, has said in a
series of interviews and public appearances that he’ll seek to
tighten the state’s 2000 ban on assault rifles. The law has
“more holes than Swiss cheese,” Cuomo said in a December radio
interview.  Shootings that left 40 people dead in Aurora,  Colorado ;
Newtown,  Connecticut ; and Webster, New York; were all conducted
with the same assault-style firearm: the .223-caliber AR-15
semi-automatic rifle. Since 2011, Bushmaster Firearms
International has manufactured a version of the weapon in Ilion,
 New York , about 80 miles (128 kilometers) west of Albany.  “The public is outraged by the extreme lethality of these
weapons and will be happy to know the assault-weapons ban is
corrected and made stronger,” said Jackie Hilly, head of New
Yorkers Against Gun Violence, a Manhattan-based group that
supports laws restricting firearms ownership. “It’s responsible
of the governor to take action. The public’s attention is really
focused on it.”  New York’s ban prohibits semi-automatic rifles only if they
have specific combinations of additions, such as a pistol grip
and a flash suppressor. Cuomo said yesterday at a news briefing
in Albany that he wants to ban all firearms defined as a “rifle
with a high-capacity magazine that has the indicia of an assault
weapon.”  Republican Partners  The governor will need the cooperation of Republicans, who
control the Senate and have been reluctant to allow votes on gun
regulation. He is also seeking to push for other measures
traditionally blocked by the opposing party, such as raising the
minimum wage and public funding of political campaigns.  Cuomo has been negotiating with lawmakers over regulations
since the Dec. 14 shooting at a Newtown elementary school
that left 20 children dead. He’s seeking to make New York
the first state to respond with greater firearms control after
the massacre.  To do that, the governor risks angering the state’s gun
industry, which employs more than 4,000  New Yorkers  who earn a
collective $169 million annually, according to a 2012 report
from the National Shooting Sports Foundation. The Newtown-based
group represents more than 7,000 manufacturers, distributors,
firearm retailers and shooting ranges.  Guns, Sandy  “The big role of government is you respond to the need at
the time,” Cuomo said at a Jan. 3 cabinet meeting in Albany.
“This state has tremendous needs that are being presented at
this time. The issue of gun violence, the aftermath of Hurricane
Sandy, these are just the issues of the day.”  In his address tomorrow, Cuomo has said he’ll propose plans
that may include requiring gas stations to have back-up
generators and improved flood mitigation after  Hurricane Sandy 
struck Oct. 29, flooding  New York City ’s subway system and
disrupting the fuel supply after tens of thousands were left
without power for more than two weeks.  He’s also considering a plan to overhaul the state’s
utility system, in part by increasing the fines regulators can
levy on power companies and selling the Long Island Power
Authority to a private company. LIPA was blamed for a slow
response when Sandy knocked out power to 90 percent of its
customers.  Another initiative, still being drafted, recommends gated
storm barriers between  Brooklyn  and  Staten Island , and building
dunes and oyster reefs to better prevent flooding, according to
a person familiar with the report who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly about the plan before it’s announced.  Breakaway Democrats  In his first two years, Cuomo has proved he can strike
deals with Republicans, working with them to pass a bill
legalizing same-sex marriage and to cut more than $12 billion in
budget deficits.  This year, though, the power structure has changed. A group
of five breakaway Democrats has joined with Republicans to
control the chamber. The Independent Democratic Conference
shares Cuomo’s priorities and will have a say on what bills come
up for a vote, said Bronx Senator Jeff Klein, the group’s
leader.  Klein met with Cuomo Jan. 4 to discuss the gun-control
measure Cuomo plans to introduce. The governor’s proposal would
do “everything possible” to ban assault weapons as well as
high-capacity magazines, and help ensure that people with
mental-health issues don’t possess guns, Klein told reporters
after the meeting. State law doesn’t allow magazines with more
than 10 rounds to be sold unless they were made before 1994.  Skelos Bill  The bill would be “the strongest assault-weapons ban in
the country,” Klein said.  In a statement e-mailed Jan. 5, Senator Dean Skelos, the
Long Island Republican who leads the party in the chamber,
proposed a gun bill that would increase penalties for those
convicted of a crime who use guns to commit felonies. It would
also enhance penalties for those who kill first responders, a
recognition of the Christmas Eve shooting in Webster, a
Rochester suburb.  William Spengler ambushed firefighters responding to a
blaze he started, killing two. The 62-year-old had spent 17
years in prison after beating his grandmother to death with a
hammer.  Cuomo said today that Skelos’s measure “misses the mark”
because it doesn’t ban assault weapons. If lawmakers won’t agree
on the gun-control proposal, Cuomo said he’ll do what he’s done
the last two years: use his bully pulpit.  “We take the priorities in the State of the State and then
we communicate with the people of the state,” Cuomo said. “If
you build support among the people, politicians follow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  