-- Debenhams Clashes With Next Over Promotions as Margin Goal Cut
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-08T10:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/debenhams-beats-sales-estimates-cuts-margin-target-on-discounts.html
Debenhams Plc (DEB) , the second-largest
U.K. department-store chain, opposed a claim by competitor  Next
Plc (NXT)  that Christmas discounting was less than last year as it cut
its forecast for full-year margin growth.  Next, the U.K.’s second-largest clothing retailer, was
wrong to say last week that stores offered fewer promotions over
the holiday, Debenhams Chief Executive Officer Michael Sharp
said on a conference call today, adding that Christmas was the
most competitive in his 37 years in the business.  “I think they need to get out a bit more is the honest
answer,” Sharp said on the call. “I know that the high street
was more promotional because I was out every day at the
Christmas period in all my competitors’ shops. It’s quite plain
that the market was more promotional than last year, all our
major competitors were doing non-like-for-like promotional
activity and Next are wrong, factually incorrect.”  Debenhams said today that gross margin will widen 0.1
percentage point this fiscal year, down from a previous target
for a 0.2 percentage-point increase, as it offered more
discounts to gain shoppers at the busiest time of the year. Next
said last week that full-year profit would at least be at the
higher end of its forecast after Christmas sales beat estimates.  Debenhams stock fell as much as 6.8 percent to 109.2 pence,
the most since August 2011. The reduced margin guidance for the
year through August is equivalent to 3 million pounds ($4.8
million) of profit and nullifies a stronger sales performance,
Seymour Pierce analyst  Kate Calvert  said in a note.  Sales Gain  Debenhams said revenue at stores open at least a year rose
2.9 percent in the 18 weeks ended Jan. 5, led by a 39 percent
increase in online sales. The overall increase beat the 2.3
percent median estimate of 11 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  December sales were a record for the retailer, rising 5
percent on a same-store basis in the five weeks ended Jan. 5.  In addition to  planned holiday events  such as a six-day
“Christmas Spectacular,” Debenhams offered “wow” promotions
such as 50 percent off the price of particular products for one
day only. The policy worked as the retailer increased its market
share in womenswear, health and beauty, Sharp said.  The  British Retail Consortium  said today that the overall
level of holiday discounting was about the same as the previous
year, though the depth of promotions was shallower as retailers
planned more cautiously and had less inventory.  Debenhams said the growth of online sales means warehousing
and distribution costs for the year will rise to about 3.5
percent of sales, up from a previous forecast of 3.2 percent.  Sharp said he doesn’t anticipate “a significant change in
 consumer confidence  in the remainder of the year.”  U.K. shopper sentiment fell in December as optimism about
the outlook for the economy plunged, according to GfK NOP Ltd.,
while food and fuel inflation is weighing on household budgets.  Debenhams was down 6.2 percent at 109.8 pence as of 9:54
a.m. in  London  trading. Next  gained  0.1 percent to 3,895 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at   sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  