-- Don’t Call Them Students. They’re Entrepreneurs.
-- B y   M a r k   B a u e r l e i n
-- 2013-01-08T23:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/don-t-call-them-students-they-re-entrepreneurs-.html
Many years ago, when a new dean at my
university referred to the faculty as “content providers,” my
colleagues and I rolled our eyes. It was the latest  hokey  label
for an old profession.  There was “sage on the stage” (the distant lecturer on the
podium), “guide on the side” (the collaborative, student-
centered instructor) and, in the laptop classroom in which the
teacher meanders behind the students, the “ peer at the rear .”  Like all catchphrases and buzzwords, they served a short-
hand purpose. But ponder them, and you could discern far-
reaching  trends  in U.S. education.  Students, too, are redefined. The terms have varied --
“learners,” “critical thinkers,” “meaning makers,” “problem
solvers.” The hot one now seems to be “entrepreneur” or
“student-entrepreneur,” at least at the college level.  Entrepreneurship programs have exploded on U.S. campuses,
and administrators love to talk about them. They aren’t just for
business students. Kansas State University’s Center for
Advancement of Entrepreneurship  declares , “The mission of our
award-winning center is to promote entrepreneurship among all
academic disciplines,” while at  Arizona State University , “The
Edson Student Entrepreneur Initiative provides funding,
mentorship and office space to teams of students within all
university disciplines.”  Competitive Rankings  Princeton’s Keller Center eLab  boasts , “students will work
together in a supportive community of fellow entrepreneurs,” and
the University of Michigan’s Center for Entrepreneurship  pledges 
to “connect our student entrepreneurs to our extensive mentor
network and invite mentors into the classroom.”  It’s not always about money, either, as this Bloomberg
Businessweek article  observed : “Every spring, the  Clinton Global
Initiative  University meeting brings together some of the
world’s most promising student entrepreneurs, who come to the
group’s annual meeting with ideas they hope will bring about
social change.”  Such programs are now common enough to have their own
 rankings : Princeton Review and Entrepreneur Magazine compile an
annual list of the 25 best undergraduate entrepreneurship units
in the country.  The benefits of having more entrepreneurial thinking on
campus are obvious, both for individual students, who are
 running up debt  and facing uncertain employment, and for the
U.S. economy, which increasingly relies on innovation to
maintain its global position. But the expansion of
entrepreneurship centers and the redefinition of students are
happening so swiftly and eagerly that one wonders where the
education ends and the hype begins.  The advantages of the entrepreneurship label are
considerable. It’s an improvement over “customers,” a term that
 popped up  in the late 1990s and recast higher education as a
service industry. “Customer” sounds too passive for the 21st
century, now that digital tools have given teenagers so much
capacity to create and distribute their own words, photos,
videos and songs.  “Entrepreneur” also reaches well beyond “learners,” which
ties students to a set content, the books they read and labs
they complete, while “entrepreneur” anticipates each student
stepping forward to form and share something wholly new. Student
entrepreneurs aren’t just learning -- they’re doing.  In the mouths of administrators and on  school websites ,
“student-entrepreneur” is more than a descriptive term. It is an
endowment and a marketing strategy with a target audience: the
high-school student who is starting the application process.  Zuckerberg Model  Colleges  compete  feverishly for more applicants and higher
selectivity in admissions, a crucial component of the U.S. News
& World Report ranking. The honorable title “entrepreneur”
doesn’t say, “You are an industrious, inventive, smart youth”;
it promises, “Here at our campus, you will be an industrious,
inventive, smart youth.”  How exciting! For 13-plus years, high-achieving 18-year-
olds have been students, shuffled from class to class in a
regimented school day, dutifully completing tasks set by
teachers, learning pat content on a syllabus. In college, they
evolve into entrepreneurs who may freely pursue their own
interests, be creative and experimental, and make lots of money,
too!  The students’ role model isn’t LeBron James or Albert Einstein or Hillary Clinton. It’s  Mark Zuckerberg , the student
who turned a floating idea into Facebook Inc., or the guys who
founded Instagram Inc., or Sean Parker.  Colleges that have no entrepreneurship message appear to
applicants as old-fashioned and unappreciative. If Duke and
Emory universities have something and Vanderbilt doesn’t, high-
school counselors and the Fiske Guide notice, as do ambitious
parents. The message spreads. “How Liberal Arts Colleges Are
Failing America” was the headline on an  Atlantic article  last
September on the regrettable absence of entrepreneurship at many
schools.  The only casualty in this forward-looking, product-
creating, money-making, social-change enterprise is the old idea
of liberal education from Cicero to a few traditionalists in the
present: the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake. Or, as
Cardinal John Henry Newman put it, “liberal knowledge, which
stands on its own pretensions, which is independent of sequel,
expects no complement, refuses to be informed (as it is called)
by any end, or absorbed into any art, in order duly to present
itself to our contemplation.”  Entrepreneurship seeks precisely the opposite -- ends,
added value, a difference in the world. It’s good that colleges
devise programs that address worldly matters and embrace a
concept that professors like to sneer at.  Yet colleges would do well to incorporate humanistic
learning into this curriculum. Maybe an entrepreneur who has
read Thucydides or Edith Wharton is more prepared, more savvy
and imaginative about new products and solutions than an
unlettered competitor.  (Mark Bauerlein is a  professor  of English at Emory
University and the author of “ The Dumbest Generation .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Bauerlein at  engmb@emory.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 