-- Dubai Shares Surge to Ten-Month High on Real Estate Outlook
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-01-08T14:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/dubai-shares-surge-to-ten-month-high-on-real-estate-outlook.html
Dubai stocks surged to a 10-month
high led by  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  as investors bet economic
growth will boost real estate prices, outweighing the effect of
central bank curbs on home mortgages.  Emaar jumped to the highest level since April 2010 after
the developer of the world’s tallest tower awarded a contract to
Brookfield Multiplex Construction for a hotel in Dubai.  Arabtec
Holding Co. (ARTC)  climbed 5.3 percent as it started constructing the
Louvre Museum’s Abu Dhabi branch. The benchmark  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  gained 2.1 percent to 1,727.29, the highest level since
March 5, at the close in the emirate. About  478 million shares 
were traded in Dubai, almost triple the 12-month daily average.  Dubai’s real estate market is rebounding after the global
credit crisis caused property prices to plunge about 65 percent
over four years. Home prices in prime locations are climbing as
the Dubai government forecasts the economy to expand at the
fastest pace in five years. The market will probably witness “a
broader base recovery” this year even as increasing supply and
restrictions on mortgage lending may slow price increases,  Jones
Lang LaSalle (JLL)  said in a report yesterday.  “Positive news from real estate companies helped push the
market up today,” said Nabil Rantisi, managing director of
brokerage at Abu Dhabi-based Menacorp. “The mortgage issue will
have some impact, but generally the sector still looks positive,
especially because these companies have diversified away from
merely selling properties.”  ‘Sell-Out’  Emaar said today that its five-star hotel project in
Downtown Dubai recorded a “sell out” response from investors.
The shares rose 3 percent to 4.12 dirhams. The Dec. 30 decision
of the United Arab Emirates central bank to cap mortgages for
foreigners and nationals at 50 percent and 70 percent of
property values will help drive out speculators, according to
Emaar.  The company with the  heaviest weighting  on Dubai’s index
may post a 15 percent increase in 2012 profit, according to the
mean estimate of 11 analysts on Bloomberg. In the first half of
last year, Emaar’s rental, retail and hospitality businesses
contributed 51 percent to  revenue , while rental and retail
income grew 23 percent.  Shares of Arabtec, the biggest construction company in the
U.A.E. by market value, climbed to 2.58 dirhams, the highest
since Oct. 31. A venture of Arabtec, Constructora San Jose SA
and Oger Abu Dhabi won a 2.4 billion-dirham ($653 million)
contract from government-owned Tourism Development & Investment
Co., Arabtec said today.  Arabtec shares surged 48 percent last year after
government-controlled Aabar Investments PJSC raised its stake in
the builder to 21.6 percent. Abu Dhabi said in 2012 it plans to
resume stalled projects including branches of the Louvre and
Guggenheim museums that were suspended after the property crash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  