-- Johnson Wins in Hawaii, 3rd Straight Weather-Shortened PGA Title
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/dustin-johnson-claims-7th-pga-title-at-tournament-of-champions.html
Dustin Johnson won the Tournament of
Champions in  Hawaii  for his third straight success in a weather-
shortened event on golf’s U.S. PGA Tour.  Johnson shot 5-under-par 68 in the final round yesterday at
the Kapalua Resort’s Plantation Course in Maui to finish at 16-
under-par 203, four strokes ahead of defending champion Steve Stricker, who was second, two shots ahead of Brandt Snedeker.  The tournament was cut to three rounds and ended a day late
because windy conditions canceled play for three straight days.
Johnson has won the past three PGA Tour events that have been
cut to 54 holes -- including the 2011 Barclays Tournament at
Plainfield Country Club in Edison, New Jersey, which was
shortened because of a hurricane, and the AT&T National at
 California ’s Pebble Beach in 2009.  “I don’t know what it is,” Johnson told reporters. “I
guess I’ve just got a good 54-hole vibe.”  Johnson, 28, has now won seven events on the world’s
richest golf circuit and is the first player since Tiger Woods
to win in each of his first six years on tour after leaving
college. He receives $1.12 million for the victory in the
season-opening event, which was contested by 30 of last year’s
tournament winners.  “He’s just going to continue to get better,” Stricker,
who was playing with nerve pain in his thigh, told reporters.
“He’s got a lot of talent.”  Turning Point  A wayward drive at the par-4 13th hole cost Johnson a
double bogey and he left the green nursing a one-shot lead after
Stricker’s birdie attempt to tie him stopped on the lip of the
cup.  Johnson made amends at the next, chipping in for an eagle
at the short par-4 to restore his three-shot advantage as
Stricker made par.  “That definitely was the turning point of the day, because
walking off 13, I was like, ‘Oh no, here it goes again,’”
Johnson said. “But I came right back, focused and hit two great
shots.”  Johnson added birdies at Nos. 15 and 18 to make certain of
the win.  The second event on the 2013 calendar, the $5.7 million
Sony Open, is scheduled to start Jan. 10 in Honolulu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 