-- DZ Bank Joins Standard Chartered to Buck Structured-Note Decline
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-01-08T12:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/dz-bank-joins-standard-chartered-to-buck-structured-note-decline.html
DZ Bank AG,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) 
and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  sold the most structured notes in at least
three years in 2012, bucking the slump to a decade-low suffered
by the rest of the market.  Germany ’s DZ Bank raised $16.6 billion from notes outside
the U.S. last year, compared with $15.1 billion in 2011, while
Britain’s Standard Chartered issued $1.8 billion, $373.6 million
more than the previous year. Sales by UniCredit, Italy’s biggest
bank, rose to $2.8 billion from $2 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg that exclude notes where the principal
returned can vary.  Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , Sweden’s Nordea Bank AB and
 Russia ’s VTB Group also sold more last year than in 2011,
Bloomberg data show.  “The fact that banks like StanChart, Nordea and Erste are
showing higher numbers could be because they’ve made a strategic
decision to enter the market with more force,” said Moritz Seibert, a Munich-based partner at asset-management firm
Aquantum AG and the former U.S. head of equity-derivatives
structuring at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  DZ Bank, which as one of two clearing organizations for
Germany’s cooperative banks provides structured products
directly to more than 900 local lenders, sold and arranged the
most structured notes in 2012, Bloomberg data show. The
Frankfurt-based lender has been the biggest seller of the
securities every year since 2009.  Silvia Conesa, a spokeswoman for DZ Bank in  Frankfurt , said
the bank’s sales growth was due to growing demand from those
cooperative banks.  Emerging Markets  Credit-linked notes tied to emerging-market government
bonds comprised the bulk of Standard Chartered’s sales. The
London-based bank issued $397.7 million of notes tied to South
Korea’s debt and $139.3 million of securities linked to Indian
bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  was the second-biggest
seller of these structured notes in 2012, with $5 billion of
issuance, though that was the bank’s lowest tally in 12 years,
Bloomberg data show. Stuttgart-based Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg sold the smallest amount of structured notes since
2009 at $2.9 billion.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-biggest bank, sold $2.59
billion of notes in 2012, the smallest amount in eight years,
Bloomberg data show. The London-based lender has been among the
top five issuers of structured notes every year since 2006.  Nick Bone, a Deutsche Bank spokesman in London, Silvia Lamberti, a spokeswoman for UniCredit and Jodie Gray of Barclays
declined to comment. Standard Chartered officials didn’t respond
to three e-mailed requests for comment.  Structured notes package debt with derivatives to offer
customized bets to investors while earning fees and raising
money. Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  Buyers of the notes, which include institutional investors
as well as high net-worth individuals, bear the risk both of the
bank selling the securities and the underlying assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in  London  at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  