-- LME Starts User Advisory Group After $2.2 Billion Takeover
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-01-08T15:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/lme-starts-user-advisory-group-after-2-2-billion-takeover-1-.html
The London Metal Exchange, the
world’s biggest metals marketplace, has established a new user
committee to represent the interests and views of
“stakeholders.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Mike Camacho, Mercuria Energy
Trading SA’s Ben Green and Koch Metals Trading Ltd.’s Frans
Pettinga are among 14 members of the group, the LME said in a
statement e-mailed today. John Smillie, of Xstrata Nickel
International, part of Glencore International Plc, will be
chairman and Codelco’s Gonzalo Cuadra will be vice chairman, the
LME said.  The LME was acquired in December by Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd. for 1.388 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) following
a shareholder vote in July. The Asian bourse pledged to
“preserve and enhance the current committee structure” of the
LME and create the group. The group will report directly to the
LME board, according to today’s statement.  LME Chief Executive Officer  Martin Abbott  will also serve
on the group, as will Martin Pratt, chief operating officer of
Triland Metals Ltd. and David Gornall, global head of metals
trading at Natixis SA. Former LME  board  members Sucden Financial
Ltd.’s CEO Michael Overlander, Marex Spectron Group’s Managing
Director Gavin Prentice and Jim Coupland, global head of
industrial metals and bulk commodities trading at  Standard Bank 
Plc, will also belong.  JPMorgan, Triland, Marex and Sucden are four of 11 Category
1 members entitled to trade on the LME floor. Koch, Standard
Bank and Natixis are Category 2 members.  Stefan Boel, a board member of copper producer Aurubis AG,
Nigel Dentoom of LN Metals International Ltd. and Yong Zhao of
China Minmetals Non-Ferrous Metals Co., Ltd. have also been
appointed, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  