-- The U.K. and the EU: Irreconcilable Differences?
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-01-08T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/the-u-k-and-the-eu-irreconcilable-differences-.html
The European Union is a remarkable
achievement that now faces its most threatening crisis. The
reason for both is the same: Its insistence through the years on
combining ambition and ambiguity.  Theoretically dedicated from the outset to “ever-closer
union,” member governments never settled on what that might
mean, or bothered too much about whether their  citizens  would
want it, supposing they knew what it was.  The euro crisis raises this core question of the EU’s final
destination with fresh urgency. I wouldn’t bet against its
leaders finding a way to swerve around this reckoning yet again
-- their ingenuity in evading tough questions seems boundless --
but it’s going to be harder than before.  For one thing, the U.K., ever the reluctant European, is
getting ready to insist on answers. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
has promised a speech later this month that will set out goals
for talks on a new European treaty, together with plans for a
referendum on any subsequent “new settlement.”  Opinion polls in Britain show majorities in favor of
withdrawal. That’s why Cameron, an instinctive pro-European,
talks about repatriating powers already ceded to the European
center in Brussels. He wants the U.K. to stay in, but the
country’s mood is hostile.  Eroding Sovereignty  If the EU’s response to the current crisis is a great leap
forward toward full political union, the U.K. won’t go along.
It’s already chafing under the present dispensation, and would
hardly welcome a new one that further erodes its sovereignty and
hollows out its domestic political institutions.  Fiscal union is now widely seen as a logical requirement
for the preservation of the single currency. (What a shame the
euro’s designers didn’t think of this before.) The logic is
questionable, in fact, but Britain needn’t accept it, because
the U.K. wisely chose not to join the system in the first place.  The nine other members of the EU that don’t use the euro
are in the same position. You could say they’re already halfway
out of the union. The question is whether semidetachment will
continue to be possible.  Britain’s uncompromising euroskeptics believe their country
should never have joined in the first place and want nothing
more to do with the project. British pro-Europeans say that
leaving the EU is unthinkable; some even say it’s wrong to
suggest repatriating powers already transferred to Brussels, as
though stepping back violates some immutable law.  Both these extremes are wrong. The U.K. would be crazy to
ignore (or try to ignore) the rest of Europe: It has a
compelling economic and geopolitical interest in the
partnership. Equally, though, the terms of that partnership
should be up for debate, and they should be revisable in both
directions.  In the end, outright withdrawal from the EU would be an
unfortunate outcome, but shouldn’t be dismissed as an
unthinkable one. Everything depends on the details of the new
settlement. The agreement Britain should press for -- and that
 France ,  Germany  and other  core countries  should accept in their
own interests -- is an officially acknowledged, properly worked-
out, permanent two-tier union.  Europe’s present constitutional design, if you can call it
that, upholds the principle of one size fits all -- one European
Union, one EU body of law -- then violates that principle in
practice. Many countries have various “opt-outs” from EU laws.
Britain, for example, has opted out of the euro.  Constitutional Anomalies  In each case, however, the opt-outs are constitutional
anomalies: They typically create complications that have to be
addressed through ad hoc adjustments. In maintaining the
presumption of one EU, one law, subsequent treaty revisions have
to work around these complications.  The result is a constitutional fog that leaves everybody
complaining and steady pressure for a closer union for all,
regardless of what citizens may want.  Until  Europe ’s economic crash, the thinking was that one
day all EU members would adopt the euro, even Britain. If
countries that haven’t already joined the currency aren’t having
second thoughts about that idea, they should be.  The new settlement needs to break with the idea of Europe’s
manifest destiny. It should sanctify the idea of an inner EU of
countries in the euro system, and an outer EU of countries that
may never choose to adopt the single currency.  The inner countries can then debate closer political union
-- as an end in itself, to facilitate the working of the single
currency or both. The outer countries, not driven by the demands
of euro membership, can jointly or severally choose looser
political ties. They would be constrained, under common EU law,
by the demands of the single market, though not by the heavy
additional demands of euro membership.  This is a radical departure from the model that has guided
European integration up to now. Yet it is no more than an
acknowledgement of facts on the ground.  The European project is in trouble because the model -- of
a single, ever-closer union -- has moved so far away from the
reality of what people want and economies can stand. The answer
is to formally embrace a  two-tier design , not as a stop-gap
measure as current doctrine dictates, but as a permanent
constitutional settlement.  If Britain makes this case in the right spirit, it will
probably find allies across the EU. Suppose, however, it loses
the argument and eventually has to choose between remaining as
part of a closer political union or leaving the EU altogether.
What then?  Under those circumstances, Britain’s exit would be
desirable for all concerned. The U.K. shouldn’t get in the way
of countries that wish to dissolve what remains of their
national sovereignty and press on to create a United States of
Europe.  Similar Relationship  Outside the EU, it could remain part of Europe’s common
market as a non-EU member of the  European Economic Area  (like
 Norway ), or it could negotiate a bilateral trade agreement with
the EU (like  Switzerland ). In that event, it would be choosing a
relationship similar to the one  Canada  has with the U.S.  On balance, a closer partnership with Europe than Canada’s
with the U.S. is still in Britain’s interests. As a member of
the EU -- and a big, influential one -- the U.K. has a voice in
shaping European policy, even if it can’t always get its way.
That’s a big plus. A friendly separation, though, would hardly
be the end of the world.  Unthinkable? Canadians seem to find the Canadian
alternative viable. Divorce shouldn’t be out of the question.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  