-- Health Care Recedes as Grads’ Top Job Demand: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-01-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/health-care-recedes-as-grads-top-job-demand-bgov-barometer.html
Recent college graduates no longer
rank health coverage above all other benefits when looking for
employment, according to a new survey that shows how the 2010
Affordable Care Act is changing priorities for first-time job
seekers.  The BGOV Barometer shows that annual wage increases were
the most sought-after benefit among new graduates on the job
hunt last year. Retirement benefits and tuition reimbursement
were next, pushing company-paid health coverage to fourth place
from the top rank for the first time in a six-year-old survey by
the  National Association of Colleges and Employers .  “Health care was far and away number one every year up
until this year,” said Edwin Koc, director of strategic and
foundation research at the Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based group
of corporate recruiters and campus career directors that has
been polling students and graduates since 2007. “It was a big
surprise.”  The 2010 Affordable Care Act, which allows parents to keep
adult children younger than 26 on their health plans, probably
contributed to the change in priorities, Koc said. In 2011, the
law helped reduce the number of uninsured Americans, the first
annual decline since 2007.  About 540,000 more young people were insured in 2011,
reducing the proportion of uninsured to 15.7 percent of the U.S.
population from 16.3 percent the prior year, the Census Bureau
 reported  in September. About 48.6 million people lacked medical
coverage in 2011, down from 49.9 million in 2010.  The proportion of uninsured 19- to 25-year-old U.S.
residents fell to 27.7 percent, a 2.1 percentage-point decline
from a year earlier, according to the Census report.  2,000 Colleges  The NACE survey is distributed to students at about 2,000
colleges. Between February and April last year, the web-based,
multiple-choice poll had more than 59,000 participants,
including 15,715 college seniors. The data on employment
benefits was based on responses from graduates who had applied
for a job at the time they took the survey.  While salary has always ranked high on students’ lists of
priorities, Koc detects an attitude shift that began with the
class of 2011.  “They want security and they’ve always wanted security,
but I don’t think that they trust that they can get security in
the workforce today,” he said. “The experience with the
recession has caused them to think very carefully about what a
job means and where they might go and what they want to be able
to do. They want to develop their careers as a much more
important aspect of that first job than just getting money.”  Tuition Reimbursement  Koc pointed to the rising importance of tuition
reimbursement for job hunters. In 2010, tuition reimbursement
ranked seventh on the priority list, behind dental insurance.
For the past two years it’s been in third place.  With 13.7 percent of 20 to 24 year olds  out of work  and
national  unemployment  at 7.8 percent, a diploma and a parent’s
insurance policy aren’t enough to give young job seekers
leverage to demand higher salaries, Koc said. It could mean,
though, that would-be employers should pay attention to the
rising importance of priorities such as training.  “I don’t think employers have invested as fully in
training as they maybe should have,” Koc said. “Employers have
always been worried about the lack of skills. Now it’s the
students, their new employees, that are also worried about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  