-- Heart-Block Test Could Bring Volcano, St. Jude $2 Billion
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-01-09T21:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/heart-block-test-could-bring-volcano-st-jude-2-billion-gain.html
Volcano Corp. (VOLC) ’s test that shows which
patients need heart stents could lead to a $2 billion market
within a decade as more doctors use it to improve care, Chief
Executive Officer Scott Huennekens said.  Volcano, based in  San Diego , and  St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) ,
based in St. Paul,  Minnesota , are the only two companies that
sell the technology, known as fractional flow reserve, or FFR.
Volcano and St. Jude are both expanding in a “duopoly market,”
Huennekens said yesterday during a presentation at the  JPMorgan
& Chase Co.  health-care conference in  San Francisco .  “Will FFR continue to grow? It’s in its infancy,”
Huennekens said. “We have an over $2 billion market opportunity
here. We are just getting started.”  Volcano rose 4.2 percent to $25.37 at 4:29 p.m. in  New York 
trading, the biggest gain since Oct. 22. St. Jude increased less
than 1 percent to $37.30.  Millions of people get  stents  to prop open clogged arteries
each year that can lead to heart attacks. The tiny mesh tubes
were the leading treatment for people with blockages prior to
2006, generating $5.3 billion a year. Since then, sales dipped
20 percent after studies showed the $3,500 devices can cause
clots and aren’t better than less-costly drug therapy at
extending life for most patients.  Now doctors are starting to turn to tests from Volcano and
St. Jude that have been little used over the three decades
they’ve been on the market. The technology precisely measures
arterial pressure, raising the odds of a good outcome by 30
percent when used to fashion a treatment strategy, according to
studies. That allows doctors to provide a new level of certainty
to both payers and patients.  Pressure On  “There is pressure now in the U.S. and  Europe  to provide
proof the patient needs to be stented,” Huennekens said in a
Nov. 30 telephone interview. “Without proof, there may not be
reimbursement. We are swimming with the flow of market
dynamics.”  The market for the tests was expected to hit $200 million
in 2012, Huennekens said. The company says it may grow 10-fold
to $2 billion annually within a decade if it works in arteries
throughout the body.  In the fourth quarter, Volcano’s revenue jumped 11 percent
to $102.5 million.  The growth stems largely from a 42 percent
jump in sales of pressure wires and products used during FFR
tests, the company said in a Jan. 7 statement.  The rising demand may also have an unexpected consequence
for Volcano, the smaller of the two companies with about $1.2
billion in market value, said Danielle Antalffy, an analyst at
Leerink Swann & Co. in New York.  Growing Use  Growing use of the tests, given to roughly 1 in 10 patients
last year, could lead stent makers such as Minneapolis-based
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  or Abbott, of  Abbott Park ,  Illinois , to acquire
San Diego-based Volcano, she said.  “If you think about stent makers, this is something that
would fall right into their wheel house,” she said in a
telephone interview. “None of them have imaging. This would be
highly strategic for them.”  Huennekens, though, said he’s not interested in selling the
company, which has an “alliance” with Medtronic already to
sell cardiology products.  “Our objective and our five-year plan has us growing over
$700 million in revenue,” he said.  For years doctors “eyeballed” the amount of plaque in the
arteries using standard imaging machines to determine whether it
should be stented or ignored. That’s no longer good enough, said
Dean Kereiakes, medical director of the Linder Research Center
at The Christ Hospital in Cincinnati.  New Evidence  “There is physiological evidence that doing the testing is
good medicine,” Kereiakes said. “There is science behind it.
It’s wonderful when those pieces of the puzzle fit together.
There is good science, good medicine and cost savings. What more
could we ask for?”  The test, he said, “teaches me when not to do an
intervention as much as when to do an intervention.”  Still, it’s a big change in philosophy that’s moving slowly
through the cardiology community, doctors say.  “Five or 10 years ago, we thought we had to stent
everything that looked significant,” said  James Blankenship , an
interventional cardiologist in central  Pennsylvania  and
secretary of the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and
Interventions. “Now the impetus to stent every lesion in every
patient has suddenly gone way down.”  The testing technology helps ensure patients get the best
care at the appropriate time, Blankenship said. Insurance
companies and the government’s Medicare program for the elderly
are increasingly bundling treatments, paying once even if
multiple interventions are needed.  ‘Enormous Impetus’  “There is this enormous impetus to not want to pay for a
smorgasbord of things,” Blankenship said. “If you just throw a
stent in when the patient doesn’t need one, you have increased
the cost and lost quality. Given that the risks of this
technology are low and the diagnostic benefits are very large, I
think this is going to go up significantly in the years ahead.”  The test, which generally costs about $800, takes just 20
minutes. Doctors insert a  special wire  into the artery to
measure the pressure building up before and after a blockage.  A measure of 0.80 or lower means that the narrowed arteries
are obstructing the flow and depriving the heart of oxygen-rich
blood. A higher reading means even a clearly visible blockage is
doing no harm.  Nearly one in four people with a blockage greater than 70
percent will have a normal reading, indicating they don’t need
artery-clearing or a stent. A 2009 study showed patients with
heart blockages who were treated based on the results were 30
percent less likely to die, suffer a heart attack or need repeat
treatment in just one year than those getting standard care.  Trial Results  Results from that trial and a second one showing that the
tests identify high-risk patients who need stents are creating a
buzz, said Frank Callaghan, president of the cardiovascular unit
at  St. Paul  Minnesota-based St. Jude, which funded the research.  “It’s all about clinical evidence,” Callaghan said in a
telephone interview. “We have that now to grow the market.”  Stents have had a rough history lately. The 2007 study
known as Courage found most stent patients would have done just
as well with drug therapy. A second review found the devices
could trigger blood clots years after they were implanted.  Then, after reports surfaced in the media of cardiologists
performing unnecessary implants for their own financial gain,
the U.S. opened a probe into improper Medicare billing.  Puzzled Patients  That publicity has opened cardiologists to more questions
from puzzled patients and lawsuits challenging their decisions.  Jack Snyder, a 59-year-old auto shop owner, already had
five stents when symptoms of clogged arteries returned. Though
two arteries were more than 50 percent blocked, only one needed
a stent based on his tests, taken at Christ Hospital in
Cincinnati.  “I guess I really would have liked to walk out of the
hospital with all of the blockages fixed, but I would have to go
to college and study heart trouble to say they didn’t do the
right thing,” Snyder said in a telephone interview. “I do know
that I feel great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  