-- Ecobank May Sell Shares, Bonds to Meet Capoittal Needs
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-01-09T13:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/ecobank-may-sell-shares-bonds-to-meet-capoittal-needs.html
Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) , the
lender that operates in more African countries than any other,
may sell bonds and shares as countries around the continent
raise minimum  capital requirements , its chief executive officer
said.  The company, which is listed in  Ghana ,  Ivory Coast  and
Nigeria, is also considering trading its shares on an exchange
outside Africa, CEO Thierry Tanoh, 49, said yesterday, in his
first interview since taking the position on Jan. 1. He replaced
Arnold Ekpe, who first took over running the Togo-based company
in 1996 and ended his second stint last year.  “We’re starting to see in a lot of countries requirements
by central banks to raise minimum capital requirements,” he
said in Lusaka, Zambia’s capital. “If this continues quite
aggressively we might have to look at raising additional
resources.”  In January last year Zambia boosted capital requirements
for international banks to $100 million from $2.5 million, while
 Zimbabwe  gave banks a deadline last September to boost reserves
10-fold to $100 million. Kenya, Ghana and Gambia have also
boosted requirements in the last two years.  Ecobank may sell shares through a private placement and
sell bonds if it decides it needs additional funds, said Tanoh,
who has worked for the International Finance Corp. as vice
president in charge of Africa,  Latin America  and Western Europe.  The company is still considering whether it needs more
funds and how much it may require, he said.  Congo, Zimbabwe  “It could be a combination of both equity and tier-two
capital,” he said.  Ecobank, which has operations in 33 African nations
including the  Democratic Republic  of Congo and Zimbabwe, is co-
ordinating the exercise at group level, and may raise money at
the parent or subsidiary level, said Tanoh.  Ecobank shares have have gained 8.4 percent in Lagos over
the past year, the second-worst performance on an  index  of the
10 biggest banks traded in Nigeria. The stock rose 1.3 percent
to 11.65 naira as of the close in Lagos.  The lender, which was founded in 1985, might consider
listing on an exchange outside the continent “where there is
liquidity, and there’s a very strong understanding of your
market,” said Tanoh  “We have an ambition to be listed in places where our
stock is properly priced, and which would provide us with the
best alternative to raise capital,” he said, declining to be
more specific.  Ecobank has an agreement with Johannesburg-based  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED)  that allows the two companies to buy 20 percent
stakes in each other.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka via Johanensburg 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  