-- Egypt Pound Drops for 8th Day as IMF Readies Team for Aid Talks
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-01-08T11:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/egypt-pound-drops-for-8th-day-as-imf-readies-team-for-aid-talks.html
Egypt ’s pound weakened for an eighth
day after the central bank sold $60 million at an auction today
as part of a policy to conserve currency reserves while
politicians race to secure International Monetary Fund aid.  The currency, which has depreciated to an all-time low
since the central bank started daily dollar sales Dec. 30, fell
0.5 percent to 6.4819 a dollar as of 1:05 p.m. in Cairo, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The regulator sold the U.S. currency
at a cut-off price of 6.4492, according to an announcement on
Bloomberg. The government’s dollar bonds were little changed.  The IMF will send a team to Cairo “in the coming weeks”
to resume talks on possible support for Egypt,  Masood Ahmed , the
head of  Middle East  and Central Asia department at the
Washington-based lender, said in a statement yesterday after
discussions with President Mohamed Mursi and other officials.
Egypt had delayed the agreement on a $4.8 billion loan last
month after Mursi suspended tax increases linked to the program.  “There is enough IMF shareholder support and interest in
the near-term stability of Egypt that negotiations will likely
reach a timely agreement shortly,” BofA Merrill Lynch
economists Turker Hamzaoglu and Jean-Michel Saliba wrote in a
report yesterday. “We also think authorities are aware of the
precariousness of the situation, the need for a rapid IMF loan
to stem a large, potentially disorderly, devaluation.”  The central bank said last month the dollar auctions, which
cap the amount of the currency each bank can buy daily, seek to
conserve foreign-currency reserves after they reached a
“critical” level. Net international reserves plunged almost 60
percent since the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011 to $15
billion, enough for about three months of imports.  The weighted average bid price at today’s auction was
6.4497 a dollar, the central bank said. The yield on the
government’s 5.75 percent dollar-denominated bonds due April
2020 was little changed at 5.72 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  