-- Egypt Sees IMF Return in Two Weeks as Currency Extends Slide
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2013-01-08T14:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/egypt-sees-imf-return-in-two-weeks-as-currency-extends-slide.html
An International Monetary Fund team
is due to return to  Egypt  in two to three weeks, President
Mohamed Mursi’s spokesman said today, as the country’s currency
resumed its slide against the dollar.  Negotiations will pick up from their previous point and
there will be “no changes” to the economic program the
government has presented to the IMF, presidential spokesman
Yasser Ali told reporters today. He said the IMF won’t impose
conditions.  The loan, for which Egypt had signed a preliminary accord
only to delay the request amid political turmoil last month, is
seen as pivotal in reviving an economy struggling nearly two
years after  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster.  Mursi’s Islamist government faces a challenge in
implementing cost-saving measures ahead of parliamentary
elections later in the year. Such cuts may cost it backing among
a population increasingly impatient with the lack of economic
progress and security after last year’s revolution.  The  budget deficit  is projected to widen to 11.4 percent in
the fiscal year ending in June, from 11.2 percent. The
government says an IMF deal will help open the door for other
aid and investment.  The head of the fund’s  Middle East  and Central Asia
department,  Masood Ahmed , met with Mursi and other top officials
yesterday in Cairo and said the IMF remains “committed to
support Egypt in addressing its increasing economic
challenges.”  Pound Slump  The push to resume negotiations comes after the biggest
slide in the Egyptian pound since the uprising. It has slumped
almost 5 percent in the past two weeks, exceeding the decline
since the start of 2011. The pound extended losses today,
dropping 0.6 percent to 6.4823 a dollar as of 3:20 p.m. in
Cairo.  The central bank, which spent almost 60 percent of its
reserves in the past two years, has introduced dollar auctions
to limit the amount of foreign currency banks can buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  