-- Egypt Lawsuit Seeking to Close Eastern Tobacco Delayed to Feb. 3
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A h m e d   E l - S a y e d
-- 2013-01-08T12:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/egypt-lawsuit-seeking-to-close-eastern-tobacco-delayed-to-feb-3.html
A judicial advisory body will review
on Feb. 3 a lawsuit seeking the closure of Egypt’s monopoly
cigarette maker and a ban on the manufacturing of cigarettes in
the country, said Mohamed Salem, the lawyer who filed the suit.  The lawsuit, filed in March 2012, seeks the withdrawal of
 Eastern Co. (EAST) ’s license to operate and the closure of its plants
on grounds the production of cigarettes and the tobacco used in
water pipes runs counter to the principles of Islamic law, as
stipulated in the new constitution, Salem said by phone today.
It also argues that manufacturing should be halted because
smoking is harmful to the health, he said.  Cairo-based Eastern said in a statement to the Egyptian
Exchange that the hearing was delayed until Feb. 3 to give the
parties time to file documents. Officials at the company weren’t
immediately available for comment.  “I’m not trying to harm the company or affect the stock
market, but at the same time I don’t want anyone else to be
hurt” by cigarettes, said Salem, who smoked for a decade before
quitting two years ago.  Egypt ’s government owns 55 percent of Eastern while a
shareholder associate holds 5 percent, according to the
company’s  website . Public and private companies, banks --
especially investment funds -- and private individuals own the
remaining 40 percent.  The advisory body will make a recommendation to the State
Council courts on whether to proceed with the lawsuit, Salem
said, adding that he filed it in a personal capacity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed Khalilelsayed in Cairo at 
 akhalilelsay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  