-- Egypt Stocks Advance to Two-Month High on IMF Loan Prospects
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-01-08T14:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/egypt-stocks-advance-to-two-month-high-on-imf-loan-prospects.html
Egypt’s shares climbed to the highest
level in more than two months after the  International Monetary
Fund  said it plans to resume talks on a possible loan seen as
crucial to preventing a disorderly  currency devaluation .  The benchmark EGX 30 Index advanced 1.2 percent to
5,804.24, the highest since Oct. 29, at the close in Cairo.
 Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the country’s biggest
publicly traded lender, surged to the highest since Nov. 14.
Private equity firm  Citadel Capital SAE (CCAP)  rose for a seventh day.
The pound, which has weakened to a record after the central bank
introduced an exchange-rate policy seeking to conserve foreign
reserves, slid 0.6 percent to 6.4823 a dollar, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The IMF loan at the moment is viewed as the only short
term catalyst that could lift the pressure off the currency,”
said Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales at Cairo-
based Mega Investments Securities.  The government expects an IMF technical team to arrive in
Cairo within three weeks to resume talks on a $4.8 billion loan,
presidential spokesman Yasser Ali said in a televised interview
today. Egypt delayed the agreement last month amid political
unrest that prompted President Mohamed Mursi to suspend tax
increases related to the program.  ‘Critical Level’  The central bank started daily dollar auctions Dec. 30,
capping the amount each bank can buy after it said currency
reserves fell to a “critical” level. International reserves
plunged almost 60 percent since the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  in
2011 to $15 billion, enough for about three months of imports.  Egyptian officials, including Mursi and Prime Minister
Hisham Qandil have “expressed their firm commitment to
articulate and implement a homegrown macroeconomic program that
enjoys broad support,”  Masood Ahmed , head of the IMF Middle
East and Central Asia Department, said in a statement after
concluding a visit to Cairo yesterday.  Commercial International Bank climbed 2.9 percent to 37.94
pounds. Citadel Capital rose 1.7 percent to 4.23 pounds. The
company plans to invest $4 billion in Egypt and east  Africa  this
year, Chairman Ahmed Heikal said in an interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  