-- Lehman Seeks Order Blocking Government Taxes on Deals
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-01-08T19:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/lehman-seeks-order-blocking-government-taxes-on-deals.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which
is selling assets to pay creditors another $32 billion by 2016,
asked a judge to sign an order barring governments from taking
taxes on any deals it strikes with buyers.  Such an order would “restate” an immunity from taxes that
exists under a court-approved liquidation plan, Lehman said.
Potential buyers want assurances that Lehman’s property
transactions are free from government intervention, according to
a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  The order “will simply and concisely reference and restate
certain aspects of relief previously granted in the plan” and
“eliminate the confusion and hesitation” of potential buyers
and government officials, Lehman said in yesterday’s filing.  Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, is still
liquidating from offices in Manhattan’s Time & Life Building
after officially exiting in March from the biggest bankruptcy in
U.S. history. Since then, it has paid creditors almost
$33 billion, or about 9 cents on the dollar. Lehman has said it
plans total payments of $65 billion, or about 18 cents on the
dollar, in compensation for money lost in its 2008 downfall.  Partly because of the scale of its liquidation, Lehman’s
claim to be immune from taxes will draw a “counter-argument”
from governments seeking revenue, said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy
lawyer with Bingham Greenebaum Doll LLP in Louisville,  Kentucky .  ‘Certainly Object’  “Governments will certainly object as, given the current
economic situation of most state and local governments, tax
dollars are very precious,” he said.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, said she couldn’t
immediately comment on yesterday’s filing.  Objections to Lehman’s request must be filed by Jan. 23. A
hearing is set for Jan. 30 before U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck. Lehman is also asking Peck to free it from sticking to a
fixed schedule for paying creditors.  Among deals that will help to raise another 9 cents on the
dollar for creditors, Lehman agreed to sell apartment owner
Archstone Inc. for $6.5 billion following a court fight with one
of the eventual buyers,  Sam Zell ’s  Equity Residential. (EQR)  Lehman
also has billions of dollars of private-equity investments such
as Formula One, along with loans, mortgages and other properties
that it says aren’t subject to taxes.  Taxes Barred  The court order sought by Lehman would direct any
“federal, state, commonwealth, local, foreign, or other
governmental agency” to accept any action or document tied to
the liquidation without seeking taxes of any kind, Lehman said.  Lehman, run by Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld when
its collapse helped bring on the worst economic slump since the
Great Depression, filed for bankruptcy in September 2008 with
assets of $639 billion. It failed, after an emergency loan from
the federal government and fruitless efforts to find a buyer for
all of its banking operations and assets, because of too much
debt and risky real estate investments, according to a
bankruptcy examiner’s report.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , based in  London , bought North American
brokerage businesses from Lehman, leaving the rest of the U.S.
brokerage still in liquidation separately from its parent.  Now, in “a bold move,” Lehman may be claiming special
treatment that it isn’t entitled to, said  Nancy Rapoport , a
bankruptcy law professor at the  University of Nevada ,  Las Vegas .  ‘Gut Level’  “From a gut level, I don’t like it,” she said. “The
government bent over backward to try and save Lehman, and we
should honor the statutory provisions of the  Bankruptcy Code 
without giving Lehman any more special treatment.”  According to Bowles, Lehman is claiming that any asset
sales or transfers made now are protected under its liquidation
plan, even though Lehman is no longer in bankruptcy. Governments
might argue that the sales are taxable deals occurring long
after the plan won court approval, he said.  “Lehman should not have an unlimited ability to sell or
transfer assets after a bankruptcy plan is confirmed without
paying taxes,” Bowles said.  Lehman, whose creditors include  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and the  New York  Giants football team, paid lawyers and other
advisers $600 million in its last year of bankruptcy, bringing
the total to $1.8 billion since 2008.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  