-- Emerging Stocks Fall a 3rd Day as Power Stocks Hit Brazil
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-01-08T22:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/emerging-stocks-fall-for-third-day-as-technology-shares-slide.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
third day as power producers led declines in Brazilian equities
and markets in  China , South Korea and  Poland  retreated. Russian
shares advanced on their first day of 2013 trading.  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  was the worst performer
on the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, and led a 1.3 percent slide
in the Bovespa index. Industrial and raw materials stocks led
declines on the MSCI gauge, as  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , the world’s fourth-
largest planemaker, slid 4.2 percent in Sao Paulo after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. downgraded the stock.  HTC Corp. (2498)  and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  fell after their earnings disappointed some
investors.  Russia ’s Micex index rallied 2.7 percent during the
day.  The MSCI emerging-markets measure fell 0.5 percent to
1,069.68 in  New York  after jumping 2.2 percent last week in its
steepest surge since November. The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets
exchange-traded fund  also dropped, tumbling 0.9 percent to
$44.25 for the biggest one-day decline since Dec. 21. Brazil is
considering energy rationing amid lower water levels at
hydropower dams, the O Estado de S.Paulo newspaper reported,
citing a government official it didn’t identify.  “In Brazil the utilities sector is pretty weak, and
whenever you have a major name down that much, it’s going to
drag on the benchmark,”  Alec Young ,  a global equity strategist
at S&P Capital IQ, said by phone in New York. “Whether it’s the
Bovespa or the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, it’s been kind of
straight line up for the last few weeks so it’s also a natural
place for some profit-taking.”  Bovespa Sinks  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has advanced 1.4 percent
this month, trailing the 1.8 percent increase in the  MSCI World
Index (MXWO)  of developed-country equities. The emerging-nations gauge
trades at 10.9 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s 13.1 multiple, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An index of emerging-markets industrial stocks dropped 0.8
percent, the most since Dec. 21, while the gauge of materials
companies lost 0.9 percent. Embraer fell the most since Nov. 29
in Sao Paulo after JPMorgan cut the planemaker to underweight,
or the equivalent of sell, from neutral.  Brazil’s Bovespa had its biggest decline in a week as
Eletrobras, as Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras is known, tumbled
9.4 percent, the most in seven weeks.  MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA, the iron-ore producer
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , lost 3.6 percent to the
lowest price since Dec. 17 after saying in a regulatory filing
it was ordered to pay 3.76 billion reais ($1.85 billion) by
Brazilian authorities for overdue taxes. MMX said it will appeal
the claim.  Volatility Drops  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the ETF and
expectations of price swings, rallied for a second day in New
York, adding 1.6 percent to 18.23.  Implied volatility  for three-month options closest to the
iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index has fallen 41 percent in the
past year and reached a record of 18.18 on Jan. 4, as options
dealers charge the lowest prices ever to protect against
declines in emerging market equities. The key gauge of options
prices reached its lowest level ever relative to the SPDR S&P
500 ETF Trust on Dec. 27, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Turkey’s ISE National 100 index slipped 0.1 percent, while
benchmark gauges in Hungary and Poland fell at least 0.4
percent. Dubai’s DFM General Index rose 2.1 percent to the
highest level since March 5.  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  climbed to the highest
level in almost five years in Istanbul, rising 1.3 percent, amid
speculation that Turkey’s biggest mobile-phone company may pay
the first dividend since 2010 this year.  IMF Talks  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index climbed 1.2 percent to the highest
level since Oct. 29 after the  International Monetary Fund  said
it plans to resume talks on a possible loan seen as crucial to
preventing a disorderly  currency devaluation .  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  sank 2.2 percent, trimming this year’s gain
to 2.4 percent. Taiwan’s  Taiex (TWSE)  index fell 0.4 percent, while
South Korea’s Kospi index slid 0.7 percent.  The Kospi 200 Volatility Index, which measures the
volatility of options tied to Kospi 200 Index, fell for a fifth
day, dropping 2.4 percent to the lowest level in the history of
Korea Exchange data going back to 2003.  Ruble Rises  The ruble strengthened 0.6 percent against the dollar and
India’s rupee advanced 0.4 percent. The Indonesian rupiah
tumbled 1.6 percent to a three-year low after the government
said its failure to reach its spending target last year crimped
economic growth.  Russia is “definitely catching up with global markets,”
Martial Godet, head of strategy at BNP Paribas CIB in  London ,
said by phone.  OAO Novolipetsk Steel, a Russian steelmaker, rallied 6.9
percent in Moscow in the first day of trading in the new year.
OAO Mechel, Russia’s biggest coking-coal producer, increased 7.1
percent, the biggest advance since Sept. 14.  Arabtec Holding Co. surged 5.3 percent to the highest level
in more than two months in Dubai after the United Arab Emirates’
biggest construction company by market value won a contract to
build  Abu Dhabi ’s branch of the Louvre museum.  Higher Expectations  Samsung Electronics, the world’s largest maker of mobile
phones and televisions, slid 1.3 percent in Seoul as its 8.8
trillion won ($8.3 billion) operating profit fell short of the
most optimistic analysts’ estimates. HTC, Asia’s second-largest
smartphone maker, slid 4 percent in Taipei. Its fourth-quarter
operating profit was NT$600 million ($21 million), compared with
the NT$1.11 billion average of 20 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, as a lack of new models prompted a loss of market
share.  “Smartphones have been selling like hotcakes, so the
expectation is a lot higher,” Tan Lip Kwang, who helps manage
the equivalent of $1 billion at K&N Kenanga Holdings Bhd., said
by phone in  Kuala Lumpur . “Samsung is very export-oriented and
their weighting in the index is quite high. Any disappointment
will cause the share price to shoot down.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 6 basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 258, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net 
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  