-- EON Appoints Kevin Watler as Director of Power, Emissions Unit
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-01-08T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/eon-appoints-kevin-watler-as-director-of-power-emissions-unit.html
EON Energy Trading SE hired Kevin
Watler as director of power and emissions, replacing Fredrik Ohrneman, the acting director appointed in June.  Watler joins from  DTE Energy Co. (DTE) ’s trading unit in
 Michigan , where he was vice president of energy trading since
2004, Dusseldorf-based EON SE said today in an e-mailed
statement. He has more than 15 years of experience in North
American and European energy commodity markets, EON said.  EON’s proprietary energy trading loss widened to 68 million
euros ($89 million) in the first nine months of last year, from
a loss of 2 million euros in the same period of 2011, on an
earnings before interest and tax basis. The company’s power
trading volumes fell 17 percent to 1,099 terawatt-hours and
European Union emissions volumes dropped 35 percent to 319
million metric tons, the  company said on Nov. 13 .  Watler “will be responsible for identifying and leveraging
opportunities on both sides of the Atlantic as we look to drive
growth in  Europe  and throughout global markets,”
Gareth Griffiths, chief commercial officer at EON Energy
Trading, said in the statement.  Ohrneman was appointed acting director when  Tom Sargent 
left after eight years at  Germany ’s biggest utility and will
continue as EON’s head of business development for merchant
trading.  The utility plans to fold its Ruhrgas natural-gas trading
and energy trading businesses into one division in May,
according to today’s statement. The new unit will be named EON
Global Commodities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  