-- Herbalife Distributor Decamps for Energy Drink Company Vemma
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-01-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/herbalife-distributor-jumps-to-energy-drink-company-vemma.html
One of  Herbalife Ltd.’s (HLF)  biggest
independent distributors has left the company to sell energy
drinks and he’s exhorting his 16,000 distributors to join him.  Anthony Powell will distribute Verve energy-drink products
for Scottsdale, Arizona-based Vemma Nutrition Co., he said in a
webcast to his distributors Jan. 6. Spokesmen for Vemma and
Herbalife confirmed the move. Powell didn’t respond to messages
seeking comment.  “This is going to be the biggest explosion in network
marketing history,” Powell, a 22-year Herbalife distributor who
is in his early 40s, said on the webcast distributed by
Ustream.tv. “This is a big move for all of us.”  Herbalife rose 4.9 percent to $38.35 at the close yeterday
in  New York .  Herbalife’s  stock  has lost almost half its value since
Greenlight Capital Inc.’s  David Einhorn  questioned the company’s
disclosures during a May 1 conference call.  Then in December, hedge fund manager  Bill Ackman , head of
Pershing Square Capital Management LP, accused Herbalife of
operating illegally as a pyramid scheme and urged regulators to
take action.  Ackman mentioned Powell in a three-hour presentation about
Herbalife on Dec. 20 in New York. Ackman detailed some of
Powell’s business dealings, culled from court filings.
Herbalife, which has denied operating a pyramid scheme, plans to
lay out its case for investors in New York on Jan. 10.  Offering Incentives  Powell wants all of his distributors to move with him by
Jan. 10 and he’s offered incentives for doing so, which include
free entry into Vemma’s network, he said.  While Herbalife has said its network of distributors
numbers 3 million, Powell is an influential figure in his world
because he’s on Herbalife’s President’s Team, one of the highest
levels a distributor can attain.  The loss of business from Powell’s departure won’t have a
material impact on Herbalife’s 2013 guidance, said Barb Henderson, a company spokeswoman.  “Anthony Powell’s stated focus is on creating ‘explosive
growth’ fueled by lead purchases,” Henderson said in an e-mail.
“As he has also stated, this is `a difference in philosophy,’
not consistent with Herbalife’s focus on building business
through the daily consumption of our nutrition products.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  