-- Merck CEO Says ‘Worth Thinking About’ Bausch & Lomb Deal
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-08T21:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/merck-ceo-says-worth-thinking-about-bausch-lomb-deal.html
Merck & Co. Chief Executive Officer
 Kenneth Frazier  said the drugmaker may be interested in buying
Bausch & Lomb, the eye-care company for sale by Warburg Pincus
LLC for at least $10 billion.  “It’s something that’s worth thinking about, that’s the
most I can say,” Frazier said in an interview yesterday at the
JPMorgan Chase & Co. health conference in  San Francisco .  Warburg, working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is giving
interested parties access to its financial data and seeking
first-round bids by month’s end, said people with knowledge of
the matter, who asked not to be named because the process is
private. Warburg is seeking at least $10 billion for the
business, these people said. Goldman Sachs contacted some
prospective bidders including Merck before Christmas with
information about Bausch & Lomb, said one of the people.  Frazier has said that he’s happy with Merck’s diversified
business model, which includes animal health and consumer health
units.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  have spun off units
to make themselves more specialized. Pfizer is divesting its
animal health and nutrition businesses, while Abbott split to
create  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , a  drug company .  Before his Bausch & Lomb comments yesterday, Frazier said
the Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based company isn’t
interested in a large drug acquisition, preferring to focus on
smaller, early-stage deals rather than large combinations.  ‘Sweet Spots’  “I don’t see us looking for another large combination,”
Frazier said. “The conclusion we’ve reached at Merck is that
the sweet spots are really in the early stage.”  Merck shares rose less than 1 percent to $42.18 at the
close of  New York  trading.  The drugmaker has been cutting thousands of jobs and trying
to boost demand of existing products to offset the loss of
asthma treatment Singulair, which began facing competition from
cheaper generic copycats in August. Merck has five major
products in development that the company is focusing on over the
next year. Investors are concerned about Merck’s research
operations after the company halted a study of its experimental
blood thinner vorapaxar, said  Tony Butler , an analyst with
Barclays Plc.  Frazier said on Jan. 3 that the company’s consumer unit was
small relative to the rest of Merck, though it was growing.
“The consumer business is a business that frankly is not quite
at the scale of the animal health business, and for us it’s
something that we have to consistently look at and evaluate as
to how it can be a meaningful contributor.”  Bausch & Lomb’s eye-care products, which include contact
lens fluid as well as generic drugs, would expand those lines.  Other parties considering bids and receiving confidential
financial information on Bausch & Lomb include New York-based
Pfizer, New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the
world’s biggest seller of health products, Abbott and Paris-
based  Sanofi (SAN) , according to the people with knowledge of the
matter.  Representatives at Bausch & Lomb, Warburg, Goldman Sachs,
Abbott, Sanofi, Pfizer and J&J have declined to comment on the
process. Warburg took Bausch & Lomb private in 2007 in a deal
valued at $4.6 billion, including debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  