-- EU Carbon Permits Drop as Natural Gas, Power Prices Decline
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-01-08T17:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/eu-carbon-permits-drop-as-natural-gas-power-prices-decline.html
European Union carbon allowances fell
as German electricity and U.K.  natural gas  prices dropped,
curbing demand for pollution rights in the world’s biggest cap-
and-trade system.  EU permits for delivery in December declined as much as 4.2
percent to 6.38 euros ($8.34) a metric ton on  London ’s ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London. The contract closed 2.9
percent down at 6.47 euros.  U.K. natural gas for next month dropped 1.2 percent to 67.7
pence a therm, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.
Carbon permits sometimes track gas because power utilities
burning the fuel need half the permits compared with when they
use more-polluting coal.  German baseload power for next year lost 0.4 percent to
44.95 euros a megawatt-hour, broker data show. Lower prices can
reduce the incentive to sell electricity forward, curbing demand
for CO2 permits.  The year-end price of EU carbon will probably be 8 euros a
ton, assuming the bloc agrees to delay auctions of some permits
in a strategy known as backloading,  Matthew Gray , an analyst in
London for Jefferies Group Inc., said today in an e-mailed note.
Permits could slump to as low as 3 euros should the proposal
fail, he said.  Ireland, which took over the six-month rotating EU
presidency this month, is hoping to broker a compromise over the
backloading measure, Reuters reported today, citing Environment
Minister Phil Hogan. At a meeting of national climate experts in
December several governments, including  Germany  and the U.K.,
said they were undecided about whether to back the proposal, an
EU official said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  