-- Euribor Facing Bank Exodus on Rabobank Departure, EBF Says
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-01-08T17:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/euribor-facing-bank-exodus-after-rabobank-s-departure-ebf-says.html
Euribor, the  base rate  for trillions
of euros of lending, may face an exodus of contributors after
Rabobank Groep’s departure, according to the banking lobby that
administers the scandal-hit benchmark.  “If some other very important banks witness Rabobank
deciding to leave, they might do the same,” Cedric Quemener,
director of Brussels-based Euribor-EBF, which is tied to the
 European Banking Federation , said in an interview. Rabobank “is
a very credible institution” and Euribor “could lose some
credibility,” he said.  Rabobank, the biggest Dutch savings bank, withdrew from the
panel that sets the euro interbank offered rate on Jan. 3
because of changes in money markets that led to a drop-off in
lending between banks and made the benchmark tougher to
calculate. Austria’s  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  also told
Bloomberg today it’s “evaluating its role” in Euribor.  Membership of the now 40-strong Euribor panel has become
potentially expensive with the possibility of litigation, fines
and criminal penalties for fiddling the rate and the cost of
implementing future rules. Utrecht-based Rabobank is the only
Dutch lender probed in the global investigations into alleged
manipulation of Libor, the benchmark for about $300 trillion of
securities around the world.  ‘Regulatory Burden’  “There’s an increasing regulatory burden attached to being
part of the benchmark in compliance costs and monitoring,” said
Roger Francis, an analyst at Mizuho International Plc in  London .
“There’s also a legal liability if you get it wrong so the
cost-benefit analysis doesn’t stack up very attractively.”  Euribor is derived from a daily survey of interbank lending
rates conducted for Euribor-EBF by Thomson Reuters Corp. Three-
month Euribor, which tracks bank-loan rates over that maturity,
was set at 0.192 percent today, little changed from yesterday
and down from 1.276 percent a year ago.  Global authorities are investigating whether more than a
dozen banks altered submissions to benchmarks to profit from
bets on derivatives or make their finances appear healthier.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, must pay $1.5 billion
to U.S., U.K. and Swiss regulators for trying to rig global
 interest rates . The sum is triple the penalties levied against
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , which agreed to pay 290 million pounds ($466
million) in June to resolve the U.S. and U.K.’s Libor and
Euribor regulatory probes.  Strategic Reasons  Rabobank’s departure from the panel that sets the benchmark
for euro loans followed the exit of  Bayerische Landesbank ,
 Germany ’s second-biggest state-owned lender, which said it
withdrew on Jan. 1 for “business-strategic reasons.”  Citigroup
Inc. (TRVC)  and DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale left the group of euro
rate-setters last year.  Rabobank withdrew from the panels that calculate Libor in
yen, Canadian dollars, Swiss francs, Danish krone and Swedish
krona in June. The Dutch lender continues to contribute to Libor
in dollars, euros and pounds.  “I do sincerely hope this chapter can be closed next
year,” Rabobank Chief Executive Officer Piet Moerland told
 Bloomberg News  when questioned about the investigation.  The European Commission sought views last year on how to
overhaul the governance and setting of Euribor, Libor and other
market benchmarks in the wake of the scandal that has engulfed
interbank lending rates.  The Commission, the executive arm of the 27-nation European
Union, will come forward with draft legislation later this year,
said Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief.  “In the future, the Commission may make it mandatory for
very large banks to participate in this kind of benchmark,”
Euribor-EBF’s Quemener said. Even with Rabobank’s exit from
Euribor, “there’s no impact on the final fixing, or on its
robustness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  