-- Euro-Area Economic Confidence Rises More Than Estimated
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-01-08T12:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/euro-area-economic-sentiment-increased-in-december.html
Economic confidence  in the euro area
increased more than economists forecast in December even as the
17-nation currency bloc remained mired in its second recession
in four years.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment rose for a
second month to 87 from 85.7 in November, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. Economists had forecast an
increase to 86.3, according to the median of 24 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey . The  unemployment rate  in the euro region
rose to a record 11.8 percent in November, the European Union’s
statistics office said in a separate report.  The improvement in sentiment is in line with strengthening
 business confidence in Germany , Europe’s largest economy. Still,
German factory orders fell more than economists expected in
November amid weak demand from outside the euro area.  “We expect the uncertainty emanating from the sovereign
debt crisis, which has been hanging like dark clouds over the
euro-zone economy, will continue to ease,” said  Christoph Weil ,
an economist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “From the spring,
the economy in the core countries should start to grow again.”  The euro pared gains after the data were released and
traded at $1.3119 at 12:25 p.m. in Brussels, little changed on
the day.  The euro-area economy  shrank  0.1 percent in the third
quarter after a 0.2 contraction in the three previous months.
Gross domestic product probably fell another 0.3 percent from
October through December, according to the median estimate of 22
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The EU is due to publish GDP
data for the fourth quarter on Feb. 14.  Economic ‘Turnaround’  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers improved
to minus 14.4 from minus 15 in November, today’s report showed.
An indicator of services confidence rose to minus 9.8 from minus
11.9, while consumer sentiment climbed to minus 26.5.  Today’s data “point to a turnaround” with regards to the
sovereign debt crisis in the euro area, said Thilo Heidrich, an
economist at  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB)  in Bonn. “We expect a slow
recovery this year.”  Still, euro-area unemployment continues to climb as the
fiscal crisis and tougher austerity measures deepen Europe’s
economic troubles. Today’s jobless report showed that 18.8
million people were unemployed in November, up 113,000 from the
previous month. At 26.6 percent,  Spain  had the highest jobless
rate in the currency bloc.  Germany ’s jobless rate was 5.4
percent and France’s stood at 10.5 percent. Austria had the
lowest rate at 4.5 percent.  ‘Far From Over’  The economic environment will be more difficult this year
than in 2012, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on Dec. 31.
Europe’s debt crisis is “far from over,” though progress has
been made and the “reforms that we’ve agreed on are starting to
take effect,” she said.  The  European Central Bank  lowered its growth forecast for
the euro area on Dec. 6 and now predicts a contraction of 0.3
percent in 2013.  Global growth may pick up this year as U.S. manufacturing
expanded in December, reflecting an increase in orders,
employment and exports.  Growth in  China  is forecast to accelerate this year as the
new Communist leadership is determined to guard against slower
economic growth. This has helped spur a 78 percent rebound in
the price of  iron ore  that led Perth-based  Fortescue Metals
Group Ltd. (FMG)  to resume work at a project suspended four months ago
and may help boost  tax revenue  in  Australia .  Factory Orders  In the U.S., state and local governments are in their best
financial shape since the recession, giving them leeway to
cushion the country’s economy from  federal budget  cuts with
spending and hiring of their own.  Yet growth abroad didn’t translate into November business
for companies in Germany. Factory orders, adjusted for seasonal
swings and inflation, dropped 1.8 percent in the month, the
Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.  German exports plunged 3.4 percent in November, the
steepest decline in more than a year, according to the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden.  Schaeffler AG, the roller-bearing maker that is the biggest
investor in car-parts manufacturer  Continental AG (CON) , last month
lowered its 2012 sales forecast because of weaker demand in
Europe and Asia.  Economic weakness at the end of last year was “temporary”
and measures taken to resolve the debt crisis are showing a
“positive effect,” Germany’s Economy Minister Philipp Roesler
said yesterday. The country’s economy grew 0.75 percent in 2012,
he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  