-- Teva Seeks Women’s Health-Care Market Beyond Fertility
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-01-08T21:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/teva-seeks-women-s-health-care-market-beyond-fertility.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
plans to boost work in women’s health beyond fertility as it
narrows its branded-drug focus amid competition to its best-
selling medicine, Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Levin said.  “Women’s health in the pharmaceutical industry is always
focused on fertility and infertility,” Levin said yesterday in
an interview at the annual health-care conference sponsored by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in San Francisco. “Contraception is really
important, fertility is important, but there are many other
diseases” that affect only women. “Nobody has taken
leadership; this is where we want to go.”  Levin outlined a new strategy to investors in December that
involves dropping some projects to focus on areas such as
neurology, respiratory conditions and health care for female
consumers. Teva, the world’s largest maker of generic drugs,
plans on $460 million to $500 million in women’s health sales,
or about 6 percent of expected revenue from branded products,
this year.  The drug lineup at Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva includes
oral contraceptives and hormone therapies for menopause. Levin
said the company may “contemplate” entering treatment for
fibroids, non-cancerous tumors in the uterus that typically
occur in a woman’s late reproductive years, causing pain during
menstruation and sexual intercourse.  Trial Results  Much of Teva’s focus is still in the reproductive area. At
the annual American Society of Reproductive Medicine meeting in
October, Teva published successful late-stage trial results for
Milprosa, a weekly progesterone vaginal ring for women
undergoing in-vitro fertilization, and for Quartette, an
ascending-dose, extended oral contraceptive.  Copaxone, a daily injection for multiple sclerosis, is
Teva’s top-selling product, accounting for 21 percent of the
company’s  revenue  in the third quarter. It will lose patent
protection by 2015, and is already facing competition from newer
oral drugs.  Copaxone is 70 percent used by women, Levin said.  “Our understanding of women’s health stems from that,”
the CEO said today during a question-and-answer session at the
conference. “It’s a huge opportunity. Women are great consumers
of medicines, they understand what it is that they need to make
themselves happier and healthier.”  Procter & Gamble Ties  Teva already has “an important alliance,” including over-
the-counter products, with  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , which will help
Teva expand in the field, Levin said.  Teva will be “data-driven” in deciding which drugs to
pursue for an expansion in cancer treatment as advanced-stage
results are expected in coming months, Levin also said during
yesterday’s interview.  The drugmaker has “a robust set of businesses in
oncology,” including an investigational anti-PD-1 monoclonal
antibody designed to unleash the body’s immune-system defenses
against cancer, Levin said. At the same time, it will be “very
hard to be successful in this area” as competitors like
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  have strong candidates, he said.  Teva has agreed to finance as much as $50 million in
research and development with CureTech Ltd., an Israeli
biotechnology company in which Teva owns a controlling stake.
Results for mid-stage studies for colorectal cancer are expected
this quarter and melanoma cancer results may be announced in the
three months through June, according to a Teva spokesman.  “We will wait to see the results of our clinical trials in
those areas to determine how best to drive that,” Levin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  