-- Facebook, Google May Face Tougher EU Curbs on Data Usage
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-01-09T16:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/facebook-google-may-face-more-data-use-limits-eu-lawmaker-says.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  may face stricter privacy rules requiring them
to let users shift data to competitors in the European Union
under proposed changes to a draft law.  People need control over their personal data, according to
a  report  published yesterday recommending amendments to the
rules proposed by the Brussels-based European Commission.  Social networks should let users move information “from
one platform to another” and obtain details of what data
companies hold on them, free of charge, said Jan Philipp
Albrecht, a German Green Party politician leading the effort in
the European Parliament.  EU data-protection watchdogs for the first time would be
empowered to fine companies as much as 2 percent of yearly
global sales for “intentionally or negligently” violating the
rules under the commission proposal. Google, Facebook and other
Internet companies have faced investigations by regulators
around the world as authorities grapple with how to better
police corporate use of personal data.  Data protection “is a fundamental right” that needs to be
protected, so “if you want my data, ask me for consent,”
Albrecht told journalists at a press conference in Brussels
today. His proposal would create “more transparency” on data
handling, individual rights and the duties of companies that
process personal information.  ‘Very Complex’  “What was already a very complex piece of draft
legislation has become by far the strictest, most wide-ranging
and potentially most difficult to navigate data-protection law
ever to be proposed,” Eduardo Ustaran, the head of the privacy
and information group at law firm Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP in
 London , said in a  blog  posting today. Albrecht’s plans represent
a “significant toughening” of the commission’s proposal.  To date, the heaviest penalty levied by an EU privacy
regulator was a 100,000-euro ($131,000) fine by French
authorities in 2011 for Google’s unauthorized collection of
personal data for its Street View mapping service.  Facebook, which has its European base in Ireland, was
subject to an audit by the Irish data-protection authority into
privacy issues with its facial-recognition feature last year.
That  review  pushed the owner of the biggest social-networking
site to delete data identifying faces in users’ photos. Norway’s
data-protection regulator said in August it was reviewing how
the feature worked and what information Facebook was storing.  ‘Global’ Market  “We are concerned that some aspects of the report do not
support a flourishing European digital single market and the
reality of innovation on the Internet -- which is inescapably
global in nature,” said Erika Mann, Palo Alto,  California-based
Facebook ’s head of EU policy in Brussels.  The Industry Coalition for Data Protection, which consists
of 15 industry associations with members including Google and
Microsoft, also criticized the report.  Albrecht’s proposals “missed an opportunity to reconcile
effective privacy safeguards with rules protecting the conduct
of business -- both fundamental rights under the EU charter,”
the industry group said in an e-mailed statement.  The rules, if adopted, “will undeniably reduce innovation
in the market and lead more entrepreneurs to escape Europe’s
hostile regulatory environment,” said one of the coalition
groups, the Association for Competitive Technology, which
represents 5,000 small and medium-size application developers
and technology companies.  One-Stop  Microsoft declined to comment on Albrecht’s proposals, as
did Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels.  Under the commission draft, companies will have to contact
fewer regulators for data-protection issues across the region as
the authority in the country where it’s based will become a
“one-stop shop.”  Among Albrecht’s 350 proposed amendments, “lead”
watchdogs, such as the Irish agency that oversees Facebook,
would work in close cooperation with other national data-
protection regulators and consult involved authorities before
adopting a decision.  Albrecht’s plans will be examined by fellow lawmakers ahead
of discussions on the measures with EU governments. Talks may
start by the end of June, he said. The draft law needs the
backing of EU lawmakers and EU governments before it can take
effect.  EU Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding, who put forward the
overhaul of the rules in January 2012, in a statement hailed
Albrecht’s report as “supporting the commission’s aim to
strengthen  Europe ’s data-protection rules.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  