-- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Sued in Maryland for Unpaid Taxes
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-01-08T22:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-sued-by-maryland-county-for-unpaid-taxes.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  were sued
for unpaid transfer taxes by a Maryland county, which argued in
a federal court filing that the home-mortgage finance companies
can’t claim a government exemption from property fees.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac aren’t qualified for the
exemption because they have been federally chartered, publicly
traded, private-stock corporations since March 31, 2003,
according to the complaint filed by Montgomery County yesterday
in U.S. District Court in Beltsville, Maryland.  The companies “are not and have not been agencies,
departments or instrumentalities of the United States for any
time applicable to the claims made in the action,” according to
the complaint.  The complaint also names the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency , which took Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  into U.S.
conservatorship in September 2008.  “As conservator, FHFA stepped into the shoes of Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac and, to the extent that the defendant FHFA is
responsible for the acts of defendants Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, plaintiffs seek judgment against defendant FHFA,” the
county said.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own or guarantee $5.2 trillion
in mortgages and back more than two thirds of mortgages
currently being originated.  The complaint doesn’t specify potential liability. County
Attorney Marc Hansen didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  Transfer Tax  Montgomery County, directly north of Washington, typically
charges a transfer tax of 1 percent of the selling price of
property more than $70,000 and a recordation tax of $6.90 per
thousand up to $500,000, according to Joseph Beach, director of
the county’s Department of Finance. Over $500,000, the
recordation tax is computed at 1 percent.  Montgomery County is the latest jurisdiction to sue  Fannie
Mae  and Freddie Mac to recover transfer fees. Suits have been
filed by Miami-Dade County and Hernando County, Florida;
Bridgeport, Connecticut; and Montgomery County, Ohio.  “There’s about 20 states in which there are 50 cases
pending,” said Don Springmeyer, an attorney on the Maryland
case, who said he is handling similar complaints in six other
states including Tennessee, Kentucky, Georgia,  South Carolina ,
Ohio and Connecticut.  Recoveries Limited  Taxing jurisdictions could recover “somewhere between
$500 million and $1 billion,” Springmeyer, of Las Vegas, said
in a telephone interview.  The potential size of recoveries is limited by statutes of
limitations and by the absence of a transfer tax in some states,
including Texas, Springmeyer said.  Andrew Wilson , a spokesman for Washington-based Fannie Mae;
 Brad German , a spokesman for MacLean, Virginia-based Freddie
Mac; and Stefanie Johnson, a spokeswoman for the FHFA, all
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Montgomery County, Maryland v. Federal National
Mortgage Corp., 13-cv-00066, U.S. District Court, District of
Maryland (Greenbelt).  -- With assistance from Clea Benson in Washington.
Editors:  Andrew Dunn ,  Charles Carter   To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  