-- Fed Regional Bank Directors Voiced Optimism Amid Fiscal Deadlock
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-01-08T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/fed-regional-bank-directors-voiced-optimism-amid-fiscal-deadlock.html
Directors at the  Federal Reserve ’s
regional banks last month expected the U.S. economic expansion
to continue even as manufacturing slowed and lawmakers debated
how to resolve a deadlock over federal taxation and spending.  “Directors remained cautiously optimistic about the
prospects for economic growth,” according to minutes released
today in Washington summarizing the discussions. “Some
directors noted continued, though uneven, improvements in
 consumer spending , especially for automobiles.”  The minutes summarize discussions among board members at
the 12 regional reserve banks as they consider whether the Fed
should alter the discount rate that it charges on  emergency
lending . The discussions were considered by the Fed’s
Washington-based Board of Governors at meetings on Nov. 19 and
Dec. 10. The board made no change to the discount rate.  The minutes said, “aside from the automobile sector,
manufacturing was generally described as showing no noticeable
signs of increased activity,” and the directors expressed
“increased concern about the potential effects on the economy
if pending fiscal issues were not addressed.”  Recommendations about changing the discount rate, which has
been at 0.75 percent since February 2010, were the same as those
at earlier meetings. The Boston Fed’s directors urged a quarter-
percentage point reduction, to 0.5 percent, while the Kansas
City Fed repeated its request for a quarter-point rise to 1
percent. The other 10 banks didn’t request a change.  Congress reached an agreement on Jan. 1 in which it reduced
the amount of tax increases and postponed for two months a
package of spending cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  