-- Fed’s Lacker Says Too Much Stimulus Raises Inflation Risk
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-01-08T21:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/fed-s-lacker-says-too-much-stimulus-raises-risk-of-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said the central bank’s record easing
risks fueling a surge in inflation after this year.  “I intend to remain alert for signs that our monetary
policy stance needs adjustment,” Lacker said today in a speech
in Columbia, South Carolina. “Attempts to overstimulate real
economic activity via monetary policy can instead run the risk
of raising inflation.”  Fed officials are debating when to end purchases of
mortgage bonds and Treasury securities in a program aimed at
stoking economic growth and reducing  7.8 percent  unemployment.
The U.S. generated 155,000 jobs last month, according to a Labor
Department report released last week. In addition, gains in
wages and the workweek exceeded projections.  “I see material upside risks to inflation in 2014 and
beyond, given the current trajectory for monetary policy, though
my baseline outlook is for inflation to move toward the Fed’s
long-run goal of 2 percent in coming years,” Lacker said in the
text of a speech to the annual meeting of the South Carolina
Business & Industry Political Education Committee.  Lacker is not a voting member this year on the policy-
setting Federal Open Market Committee. His comments were similar
to a Jan. 4 speech.  The Richmond Fed president said the central bank can
control inflation. He predicted the economy will grow this year
at 2 percent, held back by an oversupply of housing, cautious
consumers and uncertainty that is restraining business
investment and hiring.  ‘Continued Stability’  For this year, Lacker said he agrees with private forecasts
for inflation to be “a little less than 2 percent.” Current
measures of inflation expectations suggest “consumers, business
firms and investors anticipate continued stability,” he said.  Lacker told reporters after the speech he didn’t expect “a
near-term increase in inflation of very large proportions.”
Still, he said he was concerned by the Fed’s decision last month
to use inflation forecasts as one of the thresholds for raising
rates because forecasts can take some time to adjust.  “We could see inflation pressures emerge, we could see
inflation risks emerge and still not trip that inflation
trigger” for higher rates, he said. “In early 1994, we moved
preemptively” to tighten in the absence of forecast inflation.
“Those moves were crucial to us establishing credibility” for
the past two decades, he said.  Opposes Program  Lacker told audience questioners he opposed the Fed’s
asset-purchase program known as quantitative easing because the
likely costs of the plan exceeded the benefits, which appear to
be small.  “Several” members of the FOMC said it would “probably be
appropriate to slow or stop purchases well before the end of
2013,” according to minutes of their Dec. 11-12 meeting
released last week. Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser
and St. Louis Fed President James Bullard told reporters
separately last week that further reductions in unemployment
this year could warrant an end to the asset purchase program.  Lacker was a voting member of the committee last year and
dissented at every meeting. He said in his dissent last month
that Fed asset purchases probably won’t boost growth.  Lacker, 57, has been president of the Richmond Fed since
2004. He was previously the regional bank’s director of
research.  The Richmond Fed district includes  Maryland ,  Virginia ,
North Carolina, South Carolina and most of West Virginia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  