-- Flowers Among Manhattan Home Buyers in Year-End Deal Rush
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/flowers-among-manhattan-home-buyers-in-year-end-deal-rush.html
J.  Christopher Flowers , founder of
private-equity firm JC Flowers & Co., on Dec. 27 bought a $20
million co-op apartment in New York in a cash deal. The same
day, Dwayne Andreas, former head of  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) ,
sold his Manhattan home for $23.9 million, also in cash.  The deals, reported yesterday by the New York City
Department of Finance, are among the surge in year-end luxury-
home transactions made before an expected jump in  capital-gains 
taxes on Jan. 1. There were more sales of Manhattan luxury
property in the last three months of 2012 than in any other
fourth quarter since at least 1989, when New York appraiser
 Miller Samuel Inc . began tracking the data.  Luxury sales, which Miller Samuel defines as the top 10
percent by price, increased 29 percent from a year earlier to
260, based on data the company collected from public records
through Dec. 31. The numbers capture 85 percent of all such
deals in the quarter and will climb higher as transactions
completed in the final days of last month are reported with the
city finance department, said  Jonathan Miller , the appraiser’s
president. In the fourth quarter, the median price of a luxury
property was $4.4 million.  “Because of the impending tax changes, there was
tremendous pressure on deals, especially high-end deals, to get
them closed before Dec. 31,” Hall Willkie, president of
brokerage Brown Harris Stevens, said in a Jan. 2 interview.  “There’s a handful of very important deals” that have yet
to be reflected in public records, Willkie said at the time.  Tax Increase  While budget talks weren’t completed before the end of the
year, tax increases were expected. The fiscal bill passed by
Congress on Jan. 1 raises tax rates on dividends and capital
gains for households earning more than $450,000 to 20 percent
from 15 percent. A provision of the 2010 health-care law that
took effect at the beginning of the year adds another 3.8
percent to the rate for married couples whose income is more
than $250,000.  “It’s going to be more expensive to sell” in 2013, Sofia Song, vice president of research for property-listings website
StreetEasy.com, said in a Jan. 2 interview.  The six-bedroom property that Flowers bought at the end of
the year had been  on the market  since April 2011, when it was
listed for $23.5 million. The full-floor apartment on Park
Avenue and 66th Street has “New York’s finest floor plan,”
that includes two staff rooms, a gym and a library, according to
the Brown Harris Stevens listing on StreetEasy.com.  Flowers is traveling and unavailable to comment on the
deal, according to an assistant who answered the phone in his
New York office.  Andreas Sells  Andreas, former chief executive officer of Decatur,
Illinois-based Archer-Daniels, the world’s largest corn
processor, has been trying to sell his  12th-floor apartment  at
810 Fifth Ave. since February 2008, according to StreetEasy. He
listed the two-bedroom unit -- a former home of  Nelson
Rockefeller  -- for sale at $27.5 million. After 1,767 days, he
closed a deal for 13 percent less. The buyers were listed as
Sima and Morad Ghadamian, according to public records.  Andreas, who lives in  Miami Beach ,  Florida , according to
public records, has an unlisted phone number. His broker, Kirk Henckels, director of the private brokerage at New York’s
Stribling & Associates, didn’t return a voice mail and e-mail
seeking comment.  Apollo Buyers  Other fourth-quarter deals recorded after the new year
include the sale of a co-op apartment to James Zelter, chief
investment officer of  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) ’s credit
business. He paid $19.5 million in cash on Dec. 20, records
released yesterday show.  The four-bedroom duplex spans the 10th and 11th floors of
990 Fifth Ave., across the street from  Central Park ., with 11-
foot (3.4-meter) ceilings and nine Juliet balconies, according
to  the listing  on StreetEasy. The deal includes a separate maids
quarters in the building, based on the public records.  Marc Rowan, a co-founder of Apollo, bought a co-op at 927
Fifth Avenue for $26 million. The deal was completed Dec. 12 and
included in public records on Jan. 2. Rowan and Zelter declined
to comment through  Charles Zehren , an Apollo spokesman.  David Nathan Roberts, senior managing director at the $25
billion investment firm Angelo Gordon & Co., bought a five-
bedroom unit at 998 Fifth Ave. for $18.5 million, a 16 percent
discount from what its owners initially sought, according to
 StreetEasy . The transaction was completed on Dec. 21, according
to public records filed Jan. 4.  The sellers purchased the apartment in 2006 for $9.4
million, suggesting a gain of about $9 million.  Roberts wasn’t available to comment on the deal, according
to an assistant who answered the phone at his New York office.
He didn’t return an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  