-- SEC’s Window for Fraud Suits May Be Narrowed by Top Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-01-08T18:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/fraud-suit-deadlines-may-be-tightened-in-sec-case.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  signaled it
may tighten the time limits that apply when the Securities and
Exchange Commission and other government agencies seek to impose
fines on people and companies accused of fraud.  Hearing arguments today in  Washington , justices across the
court’s ideological divide voiced doubt about the Obama
administration’s position in a case involving market timing, the
practice of making frequent, short-term trades at the expense of
other investors.  The issue is whether the five-year window for suits had
expired by the time the SEC sued two Gabelli Funds LLC
officials, saying they secretly allowed market timing by a
client. The Obama administration says the window opens only
after the government has reason to know about a fraud -- an
approach several justices said would reverse hundreds of years
of practice and give federal enforcers too much power.  “This is a brand new assertion by the government,”
Justice  Antonin Scalia  said. “What’s extraordinary is that the
government has never asserted this except in the 19th century,
when it was rebuffed” and the government dropped its position,
he said.  A federal appeals court in  New York  said the suit against
Marc J. Gabelli and Bruce Alpert could go forward, agreeing with
the Obama administration’s approach.  The case raises issues similar to those addressed by the
Supreme Court in 2010, when it ruled that the two-year period
for shareholder fraud suits doesn’t begin until investors have
indications of intentional company wrongdoing. The new case
concerns SEC enforcement actions, rather than private suits.  Seeking Fines  It affects only the power of agencies to seek fines, not
their ability to seek “disgorgement” -- that is, to force
those who engage in fraud to give back the money.  Today’s hour-long session suggested the court’s ruling also
will apply to what Justice  Stephen Breyer  called a “huge
category” of other government enforcement actions, including
cases pressed by the Defense Department and Federal Trade
Commission and allegations of Medicare and Medicaid fraud.  Breyer questioned whether the government should be able to
extend its time to sue -- and impose “what look like criminal
penalties” -- by saying that it didn’t learn about a fraud
until recently.  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  called the five-year window
“generous” and asked the government lawyer, Jeffrey Wall, why
the SEC took so long to sue Gabelli and Alpert.  Gabelli Funds  The SEC complaint, filed in 2008, centers on conduct that
took place from 1999 to 2002. At the time of the alleged
wrongdoing, Gabelli was the portfolio manager for the Gabelli
Global Growth Fund and Alpert was chief operating officer of
Gabelli Funds.  Both men deny any wrongdoing.  Wall told Ginsburg that the SEC was seeking documents and
engaging in settlement discussions during that period.  Justice Elena Kagan broke in with a different explanation,
saying the SEC had decided not to pursue market timing cases
until it was “embarrassed” by suits pressed by  Eliot Spitzer ,
then New York’s attorney general.  Wall contended that it would be anomalous for the so-called
discovery rule to apply to private lawsuits and not the federal
government.  He drew few allies on that point. Chief Justice  John Roberts  said the distinction made sense to him, given the vast
resources of the federal government.  “The one plaintiff we should be particularly concerned
about is the government,” Roberts said.  Gabelli and Alpert’s lawyer, Lewis Liman, told the justices
that the issue might be different had the SEC accused his
clients of taking steps to conceal their activities.  “There’s no allegation whatsoever that anything was hidden
from the government,” Liman said.  The case, which the court will decide by June, is Gabelli
v. SEC, 11-1274.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  