-- Fred Turner, McDonald’s ‘Hamburger U.’ Founder, Dies at 80
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-01-08T18:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/fred-l-turner-mcdonald-s-hamburger-u-founder-dies-at-80.html
Fred Turner, one of  McDonald’s (MCD) 
Corp.’s earliest employees, who created its distinctive
Hamburger University and succeeded founder Ray Kroc as chief
executive officer, has died. He was 80.  He died yesterday after entering  hospice care  in Deerfield,
 Illinois , his longtime hometown, according to his daughter,
Paula Turner. The cause was complications from pneumonia. He was
honorary chairman of the board of directors of what is today the
world’s largest restaurant company.  Turner founded Hamburger University in the basement of a
McDonald’s restaurant in Elk Grove Village, Illinois, in 1961,
according to a  company history . The first class, 15 students,
graduated in February of that year. Since then, more than 80,000
restaurant managers, mid-managers and owner-operators have gone
through the program, which hosts more than 5,000 students each
year.  The Hamburger U. campus at the company’s headquarters in
 Oak Brook , Illinois, was named the Fred L. Turner Training
Center in 2004. Additional training sites are in Sydney, Munich,
 London ,  Tokyo ,  Sao Paulo  and Beijing. Graduates receive
“Bachelor of Hamburgerology” degrees, according to the
McDonald’s website.  During his tenure as CEO, Turner oversaw the introduction
of the Egg McMuffin in 1975, Happy Meals in 1979 and Chicken
McNuggets in 1983. He was an architect of the company’s emphasis
on quality, service and cleanliness, known as QSC.  ‘True Pioneer’  “Fred was a true pioneer and shaped the quick-service
restaurant industry,” Andy McKenna, chairman of the board, said
yesterday in a  statement . “We will remember his leadership,
passion and dedication to McDonald’s, our customers and our
people.”  As of 2003, the year before he retired, Turner owned about
1.5 million shares of McDonald’s common stock and stock
equivalents, then valued at $21.7 million, according to a
company filing.  Frederick Leo Turner was born on Jan. 6, 1933, in  Des
Moines ,  Iowa . He attended Drake University in Des Moines from
1951 to 1953.  In 1956, he became one of the first employees hired by
Kroc, founder of McDonald’s.  “He was little more than a kid, 23 years old,” Kroc wrote
in his memoir, recalling his first meeting with Turner in
February 1956. “He had a baby face and the most infectious grin
I’d seen in years.”  Kroc’s Tutelage  Turner and Joe Post, partners with members of their
families in a venture called the Post-Turner Corp., were seeking
to buy and operate a McDonald’s franchise. Turner took Kroc up
on his suggestion that he go to work, at $1 an hour, at an
existing McDonald’s to learn the ropes. “I could see he was a
born leader,” wrote Kroc, who died in 1984.  When the family members in Post-Turner couldn’t agree on
where to locate their proposed new franchise, Turner struck out
on his own and became manager of a newly opened McDonald’s on
Cicero Avenue in  Chicago . Within a year, Kroc had brought him in
to company headquarters.  “He was proud of everything about McDonald’s, and rightly
so -- he and Ray built it, with many other people,” Paula Turner
said of her father in an interview today. “They had a partnership
early on and a real love for each other and a real shared
vision.”  Ronald McDonald  Turner became operations vice president in 1958, an
executive vice president in 1967 and, in 1968, president and
chief administrative officer.  He was named president and chief executive in 1974 and
chairman and CEO in 1977. He was CEO until 1987 and chairman
until 1990.  He was senior chairman until his retirement in 2004, when
McDonald’s had had about 31,500 stores in more than 100
countries and revenue of $19.1 billion.  His philanthropic activities included serving as a co-
founder and life trustee of Ronald McDonald House Charities,
which supports families of critically ill children.  His wife, Patty, died in 2000. Survivors include their
three daughters, Paula, Patty Sue Rhea and Teri Turner, and
eight grandchildren.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  