-- Fulbright, SEC GC, Latham, Zuckerman: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-08T17:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/fulbright-sec-gc-latham-zuckerman-business-of-law.html
A flurry of large, cross-border
international law firm mergers in the fourth quarter of 2012
brought the number of law firm mergers and acquisitions to 60
last year, the same as the previous year, according to Altman
Weil, a legal consulting firm.  During most of last year there were “small strategic
acquisitions” in the U.S. until the fourth quarter, when four
large international law firm combinations were announced,
including that of U.S. law firm Fulbright & Jaworski LLP with
U.K.-based Norton Rose LLP. The two together will create a firm
that will top 3,700 lawyers.  “We’ve now seen nine straight quarters of steady deal-
making since the legal industry shook off the worst effects of
the recession,” Altman Weil principal Ward Bower said in a
statement.  The fourth quarter of 2012 had 19 law firm combinations in
total, according to MergerLine, Altman Weil’s report. They
included SNR Denton LLP’s announced merger with European law
firm Salans LLP, as well as with the Canadian firm Fraser Milner
Casgrain LLP. Also in the fourth quarter was the acquisition
announcement by K&L Gates LLP of Australian firm Middletons, to
create a firm with more than 2,000 lawyers.  There were five other cross-border combinations announced
last year, making a total of nine such combinations, a record
MergerLine said since it began tracking law firm combinations in
2007.  Forty-seven of the deals last year, or 78%, involved the
acquisition of a small law firm, one that had fewer than 20
lawyers, MergerLine said.  Also of note last year was Baker & McKenzie LLP’s
acquisition of two law firms outside the U.S. The firm absorbed
the 91-lawyer Estudio Echecopar in  Lima  and Rudolph Bernstein &
Associates in Johannesburg, which has 16-lawyers. DLA Piper LLP
acquired a 26-lawyer firm in Paris, Frieh Bouhenic.  Among U.S. law firms, Atlanta-based McKenna Long & Aldridge
LLP merged with California law firm, Luce Forward Hamilton &
Scripps in March, forming a new firm with more than 550 lawyers.  For more details from MergerLine’s archive,  click here .  News  SEC Names Ex-CFTC Enforcement Chief Aronow General Counsel  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday named
Geoffrey F. Aronow, a former enforcement chief at the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, to be its top in-house lawyer.  Aronow, a Washington-based partner at law firm Bingham
McCutchen LLP, will begin his role as SEC general counsel later
this month, the agency said in a statement. His clients have
included Christine Serwinski, who was chief financial officer at
 MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s North American broker-dealer before it
collapsed in 2011.  The SEC general counsel evaluates regulations, advises the
SEC chairman and represents the agency in lawsuits and other
legal matters.  “I’m truly honored to re-enter public service as the
General Counsel at an agency with such a storied history and
critical mission of investor protection and effective market
oversight,” Aronow said in the SEC statement.  Aronow, 57, was hired by new SEC Chairman Elisse B. Walter,
who took over after  Mary Schapiro  left the agency last month. He
didn’t immediately respond to a voice message seeking comment.  “Geoff brings the ideal combination of practical
knowledge, expertise, and common sense that is so critical to
addressing the often nuanced and difficult issues that come
before the Commission,” Walter said in a statement.  Aronow served as director of enforcement at the CFTC from
1995 to 1999, according to his biography on Bingham’s website.
He also has served on disciplinary panels for the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, the brokerage industry’s self-
regulator.  Aronow’s other recent clients at Bingham include accounting
firm KPMG LLP, whose Chinese affiliate is feuding with U.S.
regulators over its refusal to turn over audit working papers.  Wall Street  Outspent Lawyers Funding Romney Bid: BGOV Barometer  Wall Street outdid the legal profession in raising money
for  Mitt Romney , making him the first major-party presidential
nominee in at least two decades who didn’t rely on lawyers as
his biggest source of funding.  The BGOV Barometer shows that Romney, who lost his White
House run in November, raised $21 million from employees in the
securities and investment industry and $14 million from lawyers,
lobbyists and others working in law firms, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks campaign contributions.  President  Barack Obama , like every other major-party
nominee going back to at least  George H.W. Bush  and  Bill Clinton 
in 1992, saw attorneys and others at law firms provide the most
money to his campaign, with $27 million in contributions. The
securities and investment industry was less generous to Obama,
the first time in at least 20 years Wall Street wasn’t among the
top five sources of a presidential candidate’s contributions.  “There are a lot of lawyers in America and a lot of
lawyers with the financial means to make contributions to
campaigns,” said Michael Toner, co-chairman of the election law
practice at Wiley Rein LLP and a former Federal Election
Commission chairman. “Political giving is a part of the
culture. It’s really in the DNA.”  Lawyers were Romney’s third-biggest source of donations,
behind both Wall Street and employees in the real estate
industry. The legal profession had been the No. 1 giver to every
major-party presidential nominee since at least 1992, according
to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Romney’s Wall Street fundraising was fueled both by his
investment background and by anger at Obama, who successfully
championed new financial regulations in response to the worst
economic downturn since the Great Depression, said  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the Center for Responsive
Politics.  For more, click here.  Law Firm Leaders Expect to Fire Partners, WSJ Reports  Law firms expect to fire partners this year if they don’t
bring enough money into the firm or bill enough hours, the  Wall
Street Journal  said yesterday, citing two surveys of firm
leaders.  One account, by the Wells Fargo Private Bank’s Legal
Specialty Group, says about 15 percent of the 120 firms surveyed
plan to fire partners, according to the paper.  According to an American Lawyer magazine poll, 55 percent
of 113 managing partners interviewed said they will ask between
one and five partners to leave this year, the WSJ said.  The numbers are lower than in 2009 and 2010 when the
recession led to law firm layoffs, the WSJ said.  Deals  Latham on EnergySolutions Deal With Energy Capital Partners  Latham & Watkins LLP is advising Energy Capital Partners II
LLC in its agreement to buy EnergySolutions, a nuclear
commercial services company, for $338.6 million in cash. Skadden
Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is advising EnergySolutions.  Energy Capital will pay $3.75 a share, according to a
statement yesterday. Energy Capital will also take on
EnergySolutions’ debt, for an enterprise value of $1.1 billion,
according to the statement.  Latham & Watkins’s corporate deal team is led by  New York 
partner David Kurzweil and Orange County partner David Lee.
Advice was also provide by Los Angeles/New York finance partner
Jeff Greenberg; New York partners Matthew Henegar and Gregory
Rodgers; Los Angeles benefits and compensation partner James Barrall; London benefits and compensation partner Catherine
Drinnan; Orange County environment, land and resources partner
Christopher Norton;  Washington  finance partner David Schwartz;
Washington litigation partner David Hazelton; Washington
environment, land and resources partner Christine Rolph; San
Diego real estate partner Robert Frances; New York tax partner
David Raab; London tax partner Daniel Friel; Chicago litigation
partners Thomas Heiden and Zachary Fardon and New York
litigation partner John Shyer; Orange County securities
litigation partner Michele Johnson; Washington litigation
partner Edward Shapiro; Orange County securities litigation
partner Michele Johnson; New York antitrust and compensation
partner Bruce Prager; and London partner John Colahan.  The Skadden team includes  Palo Alto  partners Leif King and
Kenton King, corporate; Los Angeles partner Kristine Dunn,
banking; and Palo Alto and Los Angles partner Joseph Yaffe,
 Executive Compensation  and Benefits.  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, led by New York mergers and
acquisitions partner Stephen Kotran, represents Goldman, Sachs &
Co. as financial adviser to EnergySolutions, Inc.  Moves  Former NLRB Board Member Brian Hayes Joins Ogletree Deakins  National Labor Relations Board member  Brian Hayes  joined
Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC as a shareholder and
co-chairman of the firm’s traditional labor relations practice
group. He will be based in the Washington office.  Hayes was appointed to the NLRB by President Obama in June
2010 and served through the end of last year. He dissented on a
number of majority opinions. “He articulated pro-management
positions on key high-profile issues, including social media in
the workplace, notice posting, narrow bargaining units and
’micro-unions’, and post-contract deduction of union dues,” the
firm said in a statement.  Prior to his work on the NLRB, Hayes was the Republican
Labor Policy Director for the U.S. Senate Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions. He was also previously in
private practice.  “This is a very dynamic time in the traditional labor law
arena,” Hayes said in a statement. “The NLRB’s rulings have
created many challenges for employers in recent years. While I
will miss my days as a policy maker, I look forward to returning
to the practice of law and helping employers manage these risks
-- and those that are likely to come from the NLRB in the
future.”  Ogletree Deakins has more than 650 lawyers in 42 offices
across the U.S. and in  Europe .  New York Judge Barbara Jones Joins Zuckerman Spaeder  Zuckerman Spaeder LLP announced that former New York
federal judge Barbara S. Jones, who presided over the trial of
Bernard J. Ebbers and the Justice department’s cases against
Visa and MasterCard, is joining the firm as a partner in its New
York office.  Jones will focus her practice on internal investigations,
corporate compliance issues, and monitorships. She has 17 years
of experience on the bench. Prior to that, she was the chief
assistant to Robert M. Morgenthau, then the  District Attorney  of
New York County. She also headed the Organized Crime Strike
Force when she was an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Southern
District of New York.  “Zuckerman Spaeder offers me the opportunity to work in a
hands-on, collegial manner on some of the most interesting,
complex, and challenging legal issues,” Jones said in a
statement. “I am particularly drawn to the firm’s roster of
talented lawyers who prize creativity and quality. I am excited
to become a part of this accomplished group of attorneys and to
put my experience to use for our clients.”  The litigation boutique opened its New York office in 2004
and has recently been expanding. Among the firm’s recent hires
are Steven M. Cohen, New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s former top
adviser and Chief of Staff of the New York Attorney General’s
Office.  Zuckerman Spaeder has lawyers in four U.S. offices.  Charles Clapton Joins Hogan Lovells’ Health Practice  Hogan Lovells LLP hired Charles M. “Chuck” Clapton,
Health Policy Director of the U.S. Senate Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions, as a partner in its health
practice in Washington.  As Health Policy Director, Clapton was involved with the
development of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
and Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act of
2012. Prior to that position, Clapton was Chief Health Counsel
for the U.S. House Committee on Ways and Means, where he worked
with House and Senate leadership, senior administration staff,
and industry representatives on pending legislative health-care
initiatives, the firm said. He has also worked as a policy
assistant to Speaker of the House J. Dennis Hastert.  Hogan Lovells  has more than 2,400 lawyers in more than 40
offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  