-- Gardner Denver, Private-Equity Firms Said to Renew Talks
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/gardner-denver-said-to-renew-talks-with-private-equity-suitors.html
Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI) , the industrial
equipment maker seeking a buyer, attracted renewed interest from
suitors KKR & Co. and Advent International Corp. after talks
with  SPX Corp. (SPW)  ended, said people familiar with the matter.  Meetings will begin next week with Advent and KKR, as well
as a team formed by Onex Corp. and TPG Capital, said the people,
who asked not to be named as the process is private. The
company, which has a market value of more than $3.3 billion,
canceled talks with the firms last month to work on a deal with
fellow equipment maker SPX, a person with knowledge of the
matter said then.  “I would actually be surprised if something wasn’t
announced within the next month,” Joshua Pokrzywinski, an
analyst with MKM Partners LLC, said yesterday. “It’s a
distraction for the employees and ends up being an actual
headwind to the core business. If they can get this buttoned up,
all the better for the company.”  The earlier agreement collapsed in part because SPX
couldn’t get the terms it wanted on a loan, people familiar with
the process said last month. SPX had offered about $85 a share,
and private-equity firms may not be willing to pay as much for
Wayne, Pennsylvania-based Gardner Denver, said two people. The
earlier private-equity bids had come in around $73 to $75 per
share, said two of the people.  ‘Highly Likely’  “Ultimately a deal is highly likely here,” said
Pokrzywinski, who is based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and has a
neutral or hold rating on the stock. “Gardner Denver would be
amenable to something at or slightly above $75. That would get
it done.”  The shares fell 0.5 percent to $68.34 at the close in  New
York  yesterday after having advanced as much as 5.4 percent
earlier in the day when  Bloomberg News  first reported the
renewed talks.  Gardner Denver makes compressors, pumps and other products
for industries including manufacturing and energy exploration.
Its fourth-quarter results may help to determine bid prices,
said one of the people.  Vikram Kini, a spokesman for the company, didn’t return
calls yesterday seeking comment on the talks. Representatives
for TPG and KKR declined to comment. Officials at Boston-based
Advent and Onex didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Gardner Denver  sank  11 percent in New York on Dec. 21, when
reports surfaced that the SPX deal collapsed. Gardner Denver
said then that it would continue to work with its adviser,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., to pursue options including a sale.
 Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Earnings Potential  Gardner Denver began working with Goldman Sachs on
strategies after activist investor ValueAct Capital Management
LLC began lobbying for a sale in July, people familiar with the
matter had said. ValueAct owned about 5.1 percent of Gardner
Denver as of Sept. 30, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Private-equity firms are attracted to Gardner Denver
because of earnings potential at its compressor business, which
is one of the world’s largest alongside the units of  Ingersoll-
Rand Plc (IR)  and Stockholm-based  Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA) , Pokrzywinski said.
Profit margins at the compressor unit, which trail its
competitors, could rise as much as 600 basis points over the
next five years, he said.  “The private-equity guys would look at that as a margin
opportunity,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  