-- Generali to Buy 49% Stake in PPF Venture for $3.3 Billion
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-01-08T09:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/generali-to-buy-49-stake-in-ppf-venture-for-3-3-billion-1-.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Italy ’s
biggest insurer, agreed to buy the 49 percent stake it doesn’t
own in its eastern European venture with private-equity firm PPF
Group NV for 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion).  Generali will acquire about half the stake by March 28 for
1.29 billion euros and the rest at the end of 2014, the Trieste,
Italy-based company said in a statement today. The insurer will
use proceeds from bond sales in December to finance the first
purchase and part of the amount will return to Generali as
reimbursement of PPF’s debts.  Generali and Amsterdam-based PPF, controlled by Czech
billionaire  Petr Kellner , formed the joint venture in 2007,
combining their insurance assets in eastern  Europe  to create a
company with 9 million customers in 12 countries. Generali Chief
Executive Officer  Mario Greco , who pursued the deal as part of a
plan to boost profit from  emerging markets , said the insurer
won’t need a capital increase to fund the second tranche.  “The deal is positive because it allows Generali to take
the control of the venture without need of capital increase,”
Alberto Villa and Michele Ballatore, analysts at Intermonte SIM
SpA, who have an outperform recommendation on the stock, wrote
in a note today.  Generali rose as much as 1.7 percent, and was up 1.3
percent to 14.54 euros at 9:25 a.m. in Milan, giving the company
a market value of 22.6 billion euros.  The Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index (BEINSUR)  fell 0.7 percent, paring its gain over the past
six months to 27 percent. Generali rose 45 percent over that
period.  Funding Generation  The net amount payable in the first part of the purchase
will be about 1.1 billion euros, the insurer said.  Generali doesn’t need external funding to pay the second
tranche of the transaction, Greco said on a conference call.
“Generali’s funding generation is enough to cover the
purchase,” he said, ruling out any need of a capital increase.  The two companies also agreed to swap some assets,
including the combined 38.5 percent stake in Russian insurer OEO
Ingosstrakh, which will be transferred to Generali. The insurer
will sell PPF its insurance operations in  Russia , Ukraine,
Belarus and  Kazakhstan , in consumer finance insurance for 80
million euros.  “This transaction eliminates all uncertainty over our
development strategy in central and eastern Europe and the
resources required from the group to put it in place,” Greco
said in the statement. “We’ll be able to take full advantage of
our investment and focus on developing our core insurance
business while improving competitiveness and profitability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  