-- Genel Energy Starts Kurdish Oil Export, Bypasses State Links
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y
-- 2013-01-08T14:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/genel-energy-starts-kurdish-oil-export-bypasses-state-links-1-.html
Genel Energy Plc (GENL)  has started shipping
crude from Iraq’s Kurdish region into  Turkey , two weeks after
exports from the semi-autonomous area were halted.  The Kurdistan Regional Government has authorized exports
from Genel’s Taq Taq oil field, Andrew Benbow, a company
spokesman, said today in an e-mail. Ali Hussein Balou, an
adviser to the KRG natural resources minister, declined to
comment on the matter.  The KRG, feuding with the Iraqi central government over
disputed land and energy revenue, stopped transporting crude via
the central government-run pipeline network on Dec. 22. The
federal government owes 350 billion dinars ($300 million) to
companies working in the Kurdish region, Deputy Finance Minister
Fadhel Nabi in the federal government said on Dec. 30.  The Kurdistan Regional Government won’t resume exports
through the central government pipeline network until the
federal authorities pay dues owed to international companies
working in the Kurdish area, Balou said.  International companies such has  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
 Total SA (FP)  have been caught in the dispute between the Kurdish
authorities and the central government, which doesn’t recognize
contracts signed by the KRG without its permission. The tensions
have led to previous halts in exports from the Kurdish region
and payment delays to companies operating in the area.  Selling Locally  Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. (GKP) , which has production in the
semi-autonomous area, isn’t exporting crude and sells only in
the domestic market, said Henry Lerwill, a company spokesman in
London.  DNO International ASA (DNO)  also sells into the local market,
spokesman Tom Bratlie said by phone, declining to comment on
whether the company had plans to start moving oil by truck
through Turkey in the future.  Kurdish authorities plan to complete oil and gas pipelines
running direct to Turkey in the next two years, Natural
Resources Minister  Ashti Hawrami  said Sept. 24. The Kurdish
region plans to raise crude output to 250,000 barrels a day this
year and 1 million barrels a day in 2015, KRG Prime Minister
Nechirvan Idris Barzani said Dec. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  