-- German Stocks Decline on November Exports, Factory Orders
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-01-08T16:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/german-stocks-are-little-changed-as-exports-decline.html
German stocks  declined for a second
day as exports from  Europe ’s largest economy and factory orders
fell, while investors awaited the start of the fourth-quarter
U.S. earnings season.  Lanxess AG (LXS)  led chemical makers lower, sliding 3.3 percent.
 Munich Re  dropped 1.7 percent after Bank of America Corp.
downgraded its recommendation on the stock.  4SC AG (VSC)  rose 3
percent after it obtained a key patent for its anti-cancer
compound in Europe.  The  DAX (DAX)  retreated 0.5 percent to 7,695.83 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt . The gauge has still gained 1.1 percent
this year as U.S. lawmakers struck a deal to prevent most
scheduled tax increases and delay spending cuts in the world’s
largest economy. The broader HDAX Index lost 0.4 percent today.  “What happened really from July, August 2012 onwards was
that weakening of the German economy and you saw that yet again
today with the worse-than-expected export numbers,”  Bob Parker ,
senior adviser at Credit Suisse Asset Management in  London , said
on Bloomberg Television. “Although German industry is super
competitive with the euro at 1.30,” recession in southern
Europe, mediocre growth in the  United States  and slower growth
in  Asia  mean that demand, not competitiveness, remains the
problem, he said.  The volume of shares changing hands on the DAX was 28
percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exports Disappoint  German exports declined in November more than economists
had forecast as the sovereign-debt crisis weighed on euro-area
demand. Exports adjusted for working days and seasonal changes
fell 3.4 percent from October, the steepest decline in more than
a year, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had predicted a 0.5 percent drop, according to the
median of nine estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  German factory  orders , adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, dropped 1.8 percent from October, when they jumped a
revised 3.8 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists had predicted a 1.4 decline, according to the median
of 24 forecast in a  Bloomberg News survey . From a year earlier,
orders fell 1 percent when adjusted for work days.  Economic confidence  in the euro area increased more than
expected in December even as the 17-nation currency bloc
remained mired in its second recession in four years.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro
region rose to 87 from 85.7 in November, the European Commission
in Brussels said today. Economists had forecast an increase to
86.3, according to the median of 24 estimates in a  Bloomberg
News survey .  U.S. Earnings  Alcoa Inc., the largest American aluminum producer, will
unofficially start the U.S. fourth-quarter earnings-reporting
season after the market closes today. Fourth-quarter profits at
S&P 500 companies grew an average 2.9 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding financial companies, income
increased 0.5 percent.  Lanxess, a German chemical maker, dropped 3.3 percent to
63.27 euros, its fourth day of losses. MainFirst Bank downgraded
the stock to underperform, the equivalent of a sell rating,
citing its high exposure to the auto and tire industry where
demand for its products is weakening amid growing capacity.  Insurers Downgraded  Munich Re slid 1.7 percent to 135.95 euros. Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch unit cut its rating on the world’s
biggest reinsurer to underperform from neutral, meaning
investors should sell the shares. The brokerage cited lacklustre
earnings prospects.  Hannover Re , the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer, dropped
1.2 percent to 58.97 euros. Merrill Lynch downgraded the stock
to neutral from buy.  “After a stellar year in 2012, we struggle to see how the
sector can post meaningful outperformance in 2013 unless macro
conditions are particularly accommodative,” the brokerage said.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  led automakers lower, falling
3.4 percent to 73.21 euros. Volkswagen AG, the world’s second-
largest carmaker, declined 1.1 percent to 174 euros.  TUI AG (TUI1) , the owner of Europe’s largest travel company, slid
2.8 percent to 7.56 euros. The shares were downgraded to equal
weight, the equivalent of a hold rating, from overweight at
Morgan Stanley.  4SC rose 3 percent to 2.09 euros, paring gains of as much
as 11 percent. The German biotechnology company said it obtained
European patent protection for its liver cancer drug,
Resminostat.  Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the maker of Nivea skin cream, added 2.4
percent to 62.30 euros. Nomura Holdings Inc. raised the price
target for the company to 72 euros from 60 euros, saying that
the strategic priorities set last year should enable the
company’s consumer division to realize its potential in 2013.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s two-largest
lenders, rose 1.2 percent to 36.22 euros, and 1 percent to 1.60
euros, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  