-- German Bund Yield May Resume Drop, SEB Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-01-08T14:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/german-bund-yield-may-resume-drop-seb-says-technical-analysis.html
German 10-year  bond yields  may resume
a decline after rising last week by the most since July,
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB said, citing trading patterns.  The recent move higher in yields should be considered a
“correction” as long as they don’t rise above 1.74 percent,
SEB analysts Anders Soderberg in  London  and Dag Muller in
Stockholm wrote today in a note to clients.  “After a five-wave decline from September to December, the
market has embarked on a corrective move higher,” the analysts
wrote in the note, referring to so-called Elliott Wave Theory.
“Unless the surge climbs above the September peak of 1.74
percent, the most should be defined as a correction within a
persistent downtrend.”  Germany ’s  10-year yield  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.49 percent at 2:24 p.m. London time after
dropping two basis points yesterday. The rate jumped 23 basis
points last week, the most since the period ended July 27.  “If the yield drops back below 1.29 percent, it would be a
strong argument for looking forward to yet another marginally
historically low point,” Soderberg and Muller wrote.  Elliott Wave Theory, created by American accountant and
author  Ralph Nelson Elliott  in the 1930s, seeks to predict moves
in financial markets by dividing past trends into five sections,
or waves. The theory proposes that a five-wave gain or decline
is followed by a three-wave move in the other direction.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  