-- German Exports Dropped More Than Forecast in November
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-01-08T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/german-exports-dropped-more-than-forecast-in-november.html
German exports declined more than
economists forecast in November as the sovereign debt crisis
weighed on euro-area demand.  Exports adjusted for working days and seasonal changes fell
3.4 percent from October, when they unexpectedly rose 0.2
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
That’s the steepest decline in more than a year. Economists had
forecast a 0.5 percent drop, according to the median of 9
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . Imports fell 3.7 percent
from October.  Weaker demand for its goods from the 17-nation euro region
is hurting the German economy, which probably contracted
markedly in the fourth quarter, the Bundesbank said last month.
Still, euro-area investor confidence as measured by Sentix
jumped to the highest level since 1 1/2 years in January as
signs multiply that the region’s debt crisis may be beginning to
ease.  “The big problem has been subdued demand in neighboring
economies, and November saw a particularly weak level of
activity in other euro-area countries,” said  Sarah Hewin , head
of European research at Standard Chartered Bank in  London . “On
a positive front, we think that the German economy should grind
higher in the coming quarters.”  The trade balance widened to 17 billion euros
($22.3 billion) from 15.7 billion euros in October. The surplus
in the current account, a measure of all trade including
services, was 15.3 billion euros, up from 13.2 billion euros.  European Sales  German companies like Bayerische Motoren Werke AG are
offsetting weak European sales with stronger demand in  China  and
the U.S. BMW may report higher profit and record sales for 2012,
Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said on Dec. 7.  A recovery in the euro-area economy could be fostered by
political reforms agreed last year as well as measures by the
European Central Bank to calm financial markets, President Mario Draghi said last month.  While “the medium-term outlook remains challenging,” we
may see the “beginning of a recovery in the second part” of
2013, Draghi said in Brussels on Dec. 18. The economy probably
contracted 0.5 percent in 2012 and may shrink 0.3 percent this
year, ECB forecasts show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  