-- German Factory Orders Dropped in November on Weak Exports
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-01-08T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/german-factory-orders-dropped-in-november-on-weak-exports.html
German factory orders fell more than
economists expected in November amid weak demand from outside
the euro area.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, dropped
1.8 percent from October, when they jumped a revised 3.8
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
had predicted a 1.4 decline, according to the median of 24
forecast in a  Bloomberg News survey . From a year earlier, orders
fell 1 percent when adjusted for work days.  “The drop was to be expected after last month’s
increase,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels. “While there will be an economic dip in the fourth
quarter and the recovery will be very gradual, the outlook for
 Germany  is not bad at all. The lull in the crisis means
companies are confident to invest again.”  Germany’s economy has shown some signs of stabilization in
recent weeks, even as the euro economy, Germany’s biggest
trading partner, fights recession. Unemployment increased less
than economists expected in December, while business confidence
improved for a second month. Investors also were more
optimistic.  At the same time, exports plunged 3.4 percent in November,
marking the steepest decline in more than a year, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said earlier today.  Export sales fell 4.1 percent in November, driven by a 6.5
percent decline in demand from outside the 17-nation currency
bloc, today’s report shows. Orders from the euro area rose 0.2
percent and domestic orders gained 1.3 percent.  Stabilizing Demand  Orders for intermediate goods rose 0.2 percent, while
investment-goods orders decreased 3.1 percent and consumer goods
orders were down 1.6 percent. The number of bulk orders was
below average, the ministry said.  A decline in orders after a surge in the previous month is
“not unusual” and “overall, demand seems to be stabilizing,”
the ministry said, citing a November order volume that matches
levels reached in the third quarter.  The German economy will probably stagnate in the first
quarter after a marked contraction in the fourth, the Bundesbank
predicted on Dec. 17. It forecasts growth of 0.4 percent in
2013.  Economic weakness at the end of last year was “temporary”
and measures taken to resolve the debt crisis are showing a
“positive effect,” Germany’s Economy Minister Philipp Roesler
said yesterday.  Europe ’s largest economy grew 0.75 percent in
2012, he added.  Germany’s Federal Statistics Office will publish full-year
gross-domestic-product data on Jan. 15.  Second Recession  Schaeffler AG, the roller-bearing maker that is the biggest
investor in car-parts manufacturer Continental AG, last month
lowered its 2012 sales forecast because of weaker demand in
Europe and  Asia .  With the second euro-area recession in four years curbing
investment, some companies are focusing on sales to faster
growing regions. Germany’s chemical association VCI, which
represents 1,650 chemical companies including BASF SE and
Lanxess AG, on Dec. 12 forecast an increase in chemical and
pharmaceutical production of 1.5 percent for this year, boosted
by demand from  emerging markets .  “The worst may be over” in terms of the “deteriorating
export performance and the outlook for the wider German
economy,” said  Chris Williamson , chief economist at  Markit
Economics  in  London . “But weak euro-zone demand is likely to
impede the pace of recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  