-- GM Ditches ‘Chevy Runs Deep’ Slogan for ‘Find New Roads’
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-01-08T19:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/gm-ditches-chevy-runs-deep-slogan-for-find-new-roads-.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , making its first
major advertising change since ditching its chief marketing
officer last year, said it’s dropping the “Chevy Runs Deep” ad
slogan for the new global theme of “Find New Roads.”  The Chevrolet brand’s new tagline, which will debut in an
ad campaign in the U.S. this quarter, will be used in more than
140 markets. GM plans 20 new Chevy vehicle introductions
worldwide this year, including 13 in the U.S., as part of an
aggressive product rollout following the company’s 2009
bankruptcy reorganization.  “We obviously were looking for something that was very
simple, that was translatable globally,” Alan Batey, interim
marketing chief, said today in a telephone interview. GM wanted
a slogan “that has enough flexibility,” he said.  GM’s U.S. ad spending declined 9 percent to $1.17 billion
during the first three quarters of last year compared with the
same period in 2011, according to Kantar Media. The automaker is
also making changes to its ad agencies, shifting the work for
the redesigned Silverado to  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) ’s Leo Burnett
from Commonwealth, which previously had all of Chevy’s business,
Batey said.  The “Chevy Runs Deep” campaign didn’t convert interest in
the ads into buyer consideration of Chevrolet vehicles, in part
because it didn’t feature enough of the brand’s models,
Alexander Edwards, president of Strategic Vision’s auto
division, said today in a telephone interview.  “‘Chevy Runs Deep’ was a really good idea that didn’t get
executed in a way that would take full advantage of the concept
behind it,” he said.  “Chevy Runs Deep” was introduced in 2010 as part of then-
new Vice President of Marketing Joel Ewanick’s efforts to
revitalize the brand coming out of bankruptcy and emphasize the
brand’s role in American culture.  GM ousted Ewanick in July over a controversy related to a
Chevy sponsorship deal with Manchester United soccer team,
people familiar with the matter said last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  