-- Goldman Sachs Said to Swap Fees for Stake in Cantab Hedge Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-01-08T15:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/goldman-sachs-said-to-swap-fees-for-stake-in-cantab-hedge-fund.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  has taken a
stake in Cantab Capital Partners LLP after the two firms revised
the terms of a licensing agreement the hedge fund had used to
pay the New York-based bank for using its technology.  Cantab paid Goldman Sachs fees as part of a deal when the
firm started in 2006, according to two people with knowledge of
the matter who declined to be identified because Cantab is
private. They restructured it last year, with Goldman Sachs
giving up the fees in exchange for a minority ownership stake in
Cantab, they said. Cantab, based in Cambridge,  England , told its
investors of the change in a letter earlier this month.  “As you are aware, we have been spending 2012 building our
own” information-technology system, Cantab Chief Investment
Officer Ewan Kirk said in the letter, which was obtained by
 Bloomberg News . “As part of this, the existing profit-share
arrangement with Goldman Sachs has been amended and as from
December 31, Goldman Sachs will become a partner.”  Kirk, who has a doctorate in mathematics from England’s
University of Southampton, led a team of 120 employees at
Goldman Sachs focused on quantitative investing before he
founded Cantab with $60 million. The hedge fund, which relies on
computers and mathematical algorithms to spot trades, has grown
to manage $4.7 billion, according to the letter.  Quant Funds  Officials at Cantab and Goldman Sachs declined to comment
on the size of the bank’s stake in the hedge fund.  Goldman Sachs hasn’t invested in Cantab or paid any money
for the stake as part of the restricting of the licensing deal,
one of the people said. The Cantab position isn’t held by
Goldman Sachs’ Petershill unit, which uses client money to buy
stakes in hedge funds, the person added.  Cantab, which has stopped accepting money from new
investors, gained 15 percent last year and 13 percent in 2011,
according to the client letter. Others have lost money as
political announcements whipsawed markets and broke up the
trends in asset prices that quant funds try to follow.  The Newedge CTA Trend Sub-Index, which tracks the
performance of the largest computer-driven hedge funds, fell 3.4
percent in 2012 and 7.9 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  