-- If Judges Aren’t Politicians, What Are They?
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-01-08T00:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/if-judges-aren-t-politicians-what-are-they-.html
Journalists and academics have a lot
to say about what U.S.  judges do  and why they do it. Many
veteran court-watchers believe that the  Supreme Court  now is,
and has long been, almost equally divided between
“conservatives” and “liberals.”  Skeptical journalists treat judges as little more than
politicians in black robes. Others insist that presidents are
routinely disappointed by their appointees and that you just
 can’t predict  how judges will vote. For their part, judicial
nominees typically declare they will simply follow the law.
Chief Justice  John Roberts  proclaimed that judges are neutral
umpires, and Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said that “in every case I
have decided, I have done what the law requires.”  However incompatible, claims of this kind are often made
with great conviction, as if nothing could be more obvious. But
they tend to be based on vague impressions and isolated
examples. In recent years, those who study federal courts have
started to test these claims by analyzing many thousands of
judicial votes. Armed with actual data, the researchers are
finding that much of the conventional wisdom is wrong, or at
least way off.  Judges are far from mere politicians; we don’t see anything
like the kind of  polarization  found in Congress. At the same
time, judicial predispositions matter, and they help explain why
judges are divided on some of the great issues of the day. We
also have reason to think that no fewer than three of the
current justices are among the most conservative since the 1930s
-- and that none of the current justices ranks among the most
liberal.  Party Appointees  It is easiest to  investigate  the federal courts of appeals,
which decide cases in three-judge panels. With a little counting
(OK, a lot), we can see how Republican and Democratic appointees
vote in politically contested areas, such as affirmative action,
gay rights, abortion, campaign-finance regulation, disability
discrimination, sexual harassment and environmental protection.
We can examine how often Republican and Democratic appointees
cast stereotypically liberal votes -- for example, in favor of
affirmative action, gay rights, campaign-finance limits, and
people complaining of discrimination.  It turns out that a real difference exists between
Republican and Democratic appointees. In the  politically
contested areas , Republican appointees have been found, over a
lengthy recent period, to cast liberal votes about 40 percent of
the time, whereas Democratic appointees do so about 52 percent
of the time. Crucially, the law matters; a 12-point difference
isn’t huge. But that difference isn’t exactly small. If you want
to know how a judge will vote in a case involving affirmative
action, sexual harassment or gay rights, the political party of
the appointing president is a significant clue.  Second, judicial voting becomes a lot more ideological when
judges sit on panels with two others appointed by presidents of
the same political party. For example, Republican appointees
side with plaintiffs complaining of disability discrimination
about 29 percent of the time -- but that number drops to 17
percent when they are sitting with two fellow Republican
appointees. Here, then, is evidence that federal judges (no less
than the rest of us) are subject to group polarization, which
exists when like-minded people go to extremes.  Third, judges get far more moderate when they sit on panels
with two other judges appointed by presidents of the other
political party. When Democratic appointees sit with two
Republican appointees, they vote a lot like Republican
appointees. When Republican appointees sit with two Democratic
appointees, they vote a lot like Democratic appointees. Here is
strong evidence of a conformity effect on the federal courts.  Conservative Justices  The most important federal tribunal, of course, is the
Supreme Court. In a  new book , political scientist Lee Epstein of
the University of  Southern California  and her co-authors --
economist William Landes of the  University of Chicago Law School 
and  Richard Posner , a federal judge appointed by President
 Ronald Reagan  -- examine the votes of 44 Supreme Court justices
since 1937. Strikingly, they find that of the six most
conservative justices in their entire sample, no fewer than
three are currently on the court ( Clarence Thomas ,  Antonin Scalia  and  Samuel Alito ). A fourth makes the top 10 (John
Roberts). By contrast, none of the current justices ranks among
the most liberal six, and only one makes the liberal top 10
( Ruth Bader Ginsburg ).  On these numbers, the current court is  skewed  to the right,
at least by historical standards. It has three of the most
conservative justices in the last 76 years, and they have no
liberal counterparts. Epstein and her co-authors also find that
Republican presidents -- at least since  Richard Nixon  -- have
generally succeeded in appointing the more conservative
justices, while Democratic presidents have generally succeeded
in appointing the more liberal ones.  With only a few exceptions (including  John Paul Stevens  and
David Souter), recent presidents haven’t had reason to be
surprised by the voting patterns of the people they have
appointed to the Supreme Court. At the same time, it is true
that some Republican appointees are a lot more conservative than
others, and there is also an ideological spectrum on the
Democratic side.  To be sure, counting votes hardly tells us everything.
Nonetheless, we are learning that some widely held views are off
the mark. The good news is that because the law imposes real
constraints, Republican and Democratic appointees frequently
agree. But justice is not exactly blind. In many important
cases, the predispositions of the judges play a significant role
in determining the nature of people’s legal rights.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” forthcoming in 2013. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 