-- Milken Protege Goodman Chases European Loans at Blackstone
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2013-01-08T21:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/milken-protege-goodman-chases-european-junk-loans-at-blackstone.html
Bennett Goodman , who got his start
almost 30 years ago helping Michael Milken use junk bonds to
fund companies others thought too risky, says he is now the
biggest investor in high-yield corporate loans in  Europe  as
local banks back away.  His GSO Capital Partners LP, a unit of Blackstone Group LP,
the world’s largest private-equity firm, is going after the $270
billion in speculative-grade loans and bonds coming due on the
continent over the next three years. European banks are pulling
back after the region’s three-year-old sovereign debt crisis,
arranging $130 billion of the high-yield loans in the region
last year, down 27 percent from $178 billion in 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goodman’s move into Europe underscores the growing role of
asset managers as lenders, while regulators force the banking
industry to take fewer risks. As the value of leveraged buyouts
declined 22 percent last year, private-equity firms are
expanding their credit units. Along with  Blackstone (BX) , Carlyle
Group LP and KKR & Co. are also increasing their loan
businesses.  “Europe is the big event,” Goodman, 55, GSO’s chief
executive officer, said during an interview at the office on the
31st floor of Blackstone’s headquarters in  Manhattan  that he’s
occupied since January 2012.  Cash Ready  Firms such as Carlyle Group and KKR have expanded beyond
leveraged buyouts amid falling returns and a tougher time
raising money. The $104 billion of such deals completed globally
last year is down from $134 billion in 2011 and $832 billion at
the peak in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  David Rubenstein, co-CEO of Carlyle, said in a Bloomberg
television interview in November that private-equity returns
will decline from historic averages as a sluggish economy forces
firms to put more money into deals and hold their investments
longer. Raising capital for buyout funds has also become more
difficult, he said.  Carlyle in December raised its fourth collateralized loan
obligation fund in less than a year, and in November announced a
$1.38 billion energy credit investment fund. KKR bought Prisma
Capital Partners LP, a fund-of-hedge-funds manager with $8.1
billion of assets, in October.  Assets Swell  GSO’s assets under management have swelled more than five-
fold to $55 billion from $10 billion since it was acquired by
Blackstone in 2008 for about $1 billion in cash and stock.
Assets at the end of third quarter grew 62 percent from $34
billion a year earlier, including the acquisition of Dublin-
based manager Harbourmaster Capital Management Ltd. in January
2012.  The unit has about $5 billion of cash on hand. Its deals
last year include investments in Spanish cement maker Cementos
Portland Valderrivas SA, U.K. homebuilder Miller Group Ltd.,
 Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , New Jersey’s biggest homebuilder,
and Oklahoma City-based natural-gas producer  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK)   Its flagship hedge funds produced average gross returns of
17 percent in the year ended Sept. 30, while its mezzanine and
rescue lending funds gained 24 percent and 17 percent,
respectively, in the first nine months of 2012, according to a
regulatory filing.  GSO is the fastest growing unit of Blackstone, whose  shares 
are 46 percent below the 2007 initial public offering price. GSO
managed about $46 billion, or 27 percent, of Blackstone’s $169
billion fee-earning assets at the end of September, the most of
any of its businesses, third quarter earnings report filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission shows.  $270 Billion  With Standard & Poor’s estimating that about $270 billion
of junk-category loans and bonds are set to mature in Europe
over the next three years, GSO co-founder  Tripp Smith  relocated
to  London  last January, while Craig Snyder, a senior trader for
GSO’s hedge funds, moved there in June. Thirty-five of its 105
investment professionals are in London and Dublin.  Europe’s loan market is split evenly between banks and
investors such as CLOs, which pool high-yield loans and slice
them into securities of varying risk and return. The region’s
high-yield bond and loan markets aren’t broad or deep enough to
absorb all the corporate debt coming due two years from now,
according to Goodman.  Cementos Rescue  “There will be ever increasing pressure on these banks to
improve their capital ratios,” said Goodman, who worked with
Milken at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. from 1984 to 1988. “We’re
trying to insert ourselves” as they retreat from lending.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP estimates that European banks
may sell about 60 billion euros ($78.7 billion) of non-core
loans this year as they shrink their balance sheets to comply
with stiffer regulation aimed at avoiding a repeat of the 2008
financial crisis. The sales may shift from a focus on real-
estate-backed lending to corporate loans, and would be a rise
from 45 billion euros of disposals last year, the consulting
firm said in a study released this month.  GSO’s dealings with about 250 European companies is helping
it identify those that may not be able to refinance maturing
debt, as Smith holds discussions with banks and boards to avert
bankruptcies.  In early August, GSO provided a $430 million dollar-
denominated rescue loan to Spanish cement maker Cementos
Portland Valderrivas. The company was in default and the banks
wanted to reduce their lending, according to Smith, who said it
took about four months to put a deal together.  The agreement convinced the bank group to amend and extend
its debt, while allowing the parent to keep its Spanish and U.S.
subsidiaries including Giant Cement Holding Inc., based in
Summerville, South Carolina. The loan is secured by  Cementos’s (CPL) 
U.S. assets, which are governed under the U.S. bankruptcy code,
so that GSO may seize them if the company runs into trouble.  Miller, Hovnanian  The loan pays interest at 10 percent, or as much as 12
percent if the cement maker chooses to take on additional debt
in lieu of cash payments. GSO will also receive 20 percent of
Cementos’s annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization for six years.  “If we can solve a problem, we create value and get
paid,” said Goodman in an interview in September. “Now, we
don’t have 15 deals like that today. Maybe we have the potential
of 5 deals like that over the next 12 months.”  In February, GSO led a group that invested 160 million
pounds ($258 million) of debt and equity in Edinburgh-based
homebuilder Miller.  GSO made a bet on a recovery in the U.S. residential real-
estate market when in July it agreed to buy a group of housing
development sites from Hovnanian with plans to sell them back
under a $125 million deal. In November, the Red Bank, N.J.-based
homebuilder said it was increasing the so-called land banking
arrangement with GSO to $250 million.  Chesapeake Deal  At the time of the initial agreement, the company was
running out of cash and its  stock  was trading at about $2.80,
compared with $6.26 now. “We had a different opinion,”
according to GSO’s third co-founder, Doug Ostrover, who helped
negotiate the deal. By purchasing Hovnanian’s land and giving
the homebuilder the option to buy it back, “we freed up
liquidity for them,” he said.  In March, GSO provided preferred equity to Chesapeake for a
second time to help the energy company keep investing in oil and
gas development while completing asset sales, according to
Goodman. Chesapeake said in May it was facing a potential cash-
flow shortfall this year.  Not every deal has gone as planned. GSO provided a portion
of the mezzanine financing for Ripplewood Holdings LLC’s
leveraged buyout of Reader’s Digest Association Inc., the
publisher of the pocket-sized magazine, in 2007. The company,
based in New York, ran out of cash and filed for bankruptcy
protection in 2009.  Drexel Burnham  After graduating from Harvard Business School in 1984,
Goodman joined Drexel Burnham as Milken was pioneering the use
of junk bonds in buyouts. Goodman continued in speculative-grade
securities after moving to Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette in 1988
and later became global head of leveraged finance under Tony James, now president of Blackstone.  After DLJ was acquired by Credit Suisse First Boston in
2000, Goodman established the bank’s alternative capital
division, overseeing $33 billion of assets.  Goodman, Smith and Ostrover co-founded GSO in 2005. In the
spring of 2007, they attended a pre-initial public offering
roadshow for Blackstone, which had about $92 billion of assets
under management while two-year-old GSO had one hedge fund, two
CLOs and had just held a first closing of a mezzanine fund it
was raising. Its assets under management were in the range of $5
billion to $7 billion, according to Goodman.  ‘Secret Ninjas’  “We were like secret ninjas of the night, darting around
coves in a cigarette boat, and here you have the U.S.S.
Blackstone, and we’re getting like capsized from their wake,”
Goodman said.  They plowed the cash from their deal with Blackstone into
their credit and distressed loan funds in March 2008, near the
worst of the financial crisis, according to Goodman, who is also
a Blackstone senior managing director.  After moving into Blackstone’s headquarters last January,
Goodman didn’t replicate the wood and green marble Federal Style
office he had decorated to resemble the one he occupied at DLJ,
whose headquarters waiting room featured a Gilbert Stuart
portrait of George Washington. His personal collection of
antique furniture, mirrors and vases don’t match the
contemporary look of his new employer, he said.  In September, GSO raised an $835 million closed-end fund
targeting junk-rated corporate debt, increasing the offering to
$960 million after the underwriters exercised an option to buy
additional shares in the  publicly-traded pool . It also offered
two new CLOs totaling more than $1 billion during the third
quarter, according to a presentation filed with the SEC in
October.  As returns in the private-equity industry decline,
investing in credit is more attractive, according to Goodman.  “We’ve got the sun, the moon, the stars all aligned,” he
said. “We’re trying to take advantage of all that because we
know it won’t last forever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  