-- Hillary Clinton’s Ego Trips
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2013-01-08T15:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/hillary-clinton-s-ego-trips.html
The world is a better place because
of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s tenure as secretary of state. That’s
not the question. The question is whether it is a better place
because of those last 20 hours of her 80-hour work week. Or
because of the extra miles she flew to distant capitals?  On one trip in 2009,  according to  the  New York  Times, “she
traveled from talks with Palestinian leaders in Abu Dhabi to a
midnight meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in
 Jerusalem , then boarded a plane for  Morocco , staying up all
night to work on other issues, before going straight to a
meeting of Arab leaders the next morning.”  Very impressive, but did it bring us any closer to peace in
the Middle East? That may be a lot to ask. Still, as they say,
if you can’t measure output, measure input. Every secretary of
state since 1947 has taken a crack at solving the puzzle of the
Israeli-Arab dispute. None has succeeded, but they’ve all run up
impressive mileage trying.  Clinton often flew overnight and, the Times says, “after
landing, went straight into a 12- or 16-hour day.” She once
“spent three consecutive nights on her plane.” She has visited
112 countries as secretary of state, which is the record, but in
terms of air miles (956,733) she trails her predecessor,
Condoleezza Rice (1.06 million). (Rice, the Times notes meanly,
is seven years younger and “an exercise enthusiast.”)  Clinton looks awful and has looked worse and worse for
years, since long before her  recent hospitalization  for a blood
clot resulting from a fall. I don’t mean to be ungallant. It’s
just that she clearly has been working herself to death in her
current job as well as in her past two, as senator and first
lady.  And what for? Despite all the admiration she deserves for
her dedication and long hours, there is also a vanity of long
hours and (in her current job) long miles of travel. You must be
very, very important if your work requires you to be constantly
flying through time zones to midnight meetings that last for
hours. Of course our secretary of state is very important -- so
why does she have to prove it?  In 1899, the economist Thorstein Veblen wrote a book, “ The
Theory of the Leisure Class ,” which asserted that you prove your
status or rank in society by displaying “conspicuous leisure” --
that is, how little you appear to work. That may have been true
in Veblen’s day, but it surely is not true of the generation of
which Mrs. Clinton and her husband are by now the undisputed
leaders. (Who else? Nobody is nominating George W. Bush.) For
us, the highest form of ritual obeisance is to tell someone,
“You must be very busy.”  Travel is an especially good way to stay -- and appear --
busy. Otherwise, you are at risk of actually being at your desk
when someone calls. What could be more embarrassing? I don’t
mean to suggest that all or even most business travel, let alone
diplomatic travel, is for show. Just that much of it is.  You would think that modern technology would obviate some
of this time-consuming travel. According to the Times, Clinton
thought so, but discovered that showing up in person was
“paradoxically” more important if you could much more easily
take part in a teleconference.  This is an insight worthy of Veblen himself. Call it
“conspicuous travel”: The less important the trip, the more
prestige you gain by taking it.  (Michael Kinsley is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him
on Twitter.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the
Ticker .
 