-- Illinois Asks U.S. Appeals Court to Rehear Gun-Carry Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-08T19:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/illinois-asks-u-s-appeals-court-to-rehear-gun-carry-case-1-.html
Illinois  Attorney General Lisa Madigan asked a U.S. appeals court to reconsider its decision
last month to invalidate a state law that prohibited people from
carrying loaded guns outside of their home or business.  A panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Chicago , by a 2-1
vote, overturned a pair of lower-court rulings upholding the law
and returned the cases to those courts with instructions to find
the measure unconstitutional. The appellate judges delayed the
effect of their ruling for 180 days to give the state
legislature time to write a replacement law.  Madigan, in her petition filed today, asked for a rehearing
by a 10-judge panel.  “In ruling that Illinois must allow individuals to carry
ready-to-use firearms in public, the 7th Circuit Court’s
decision goes beyond what the U.S.  Supreme Court  has held and
conflicts with decisions by two other federal appellate
courts,” the attorney general said in a statement announcing
the filing.  The appellate decision came just three days before a
Connecticut man shot and killed 27 people, including his mother
and then 20 children at an elementary school in suburban
Newtown. He also took his own life.  Outright Ban  Illinois is the only U.S. state with an outright ban on the
carrying of a loaded weapon outside the home or regular
workplace. One of the lawsuits was filed by the Bellevue,
Washington-based gun rights group, the Second Amendment
Foundation; the other by the Illinois State Rifle Association.  “One doesn’t have to be a historian to realize that a
right to keep and bear arms for personal self-defense in the
18th century could not rationally have been limited to the
home,” U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner wrote, referring to
the original drafting of the Constitution and the 1791
ratification of the amendment.  The amendment reads in full, “A well regulated militia
being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of
the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.”  The U.S. Supreme Court in 2008 ruled that the amendment
confers an individual right to keep and bear arms, striking down
a handgun ban in the  District of Columbia  by a 5-4 vote. By the
same margin two years later, the high court invalidated a
Chicago ordinance that banned guns even within the home.  2008 Ruling  The 2008 high court ruling “left unresolved” whether a
ban on gun carrying outside the home is unconstitutional,
Madigan argued in today’s filing.  Last month’s appeals court ruling also conflicts with
decisions rendered by appellate panels based in  New York  and in
Richmond,  Virginia , the attorney general wrote. She also
disputed Posner’s take on Second Amendment history.  “It was an arrestable offense to carry arms in public in
Seventeenth and Eighteenth Century Britain,” the attorney
general said. “Many Founding-era governments barred open or
concealed carry in public places, either by statute or common
law.”  Richard Pearson, executive director of the Illinois rifle
association, said further court review is fine.  “If it goes to the full-judge panel and we win, we’re
happy,” he said in an interview. “If we don’t, we’ll go to the
Supreme Court.”  The cases are Moore v. Madigan, 12-1269 and Shepard v.
Madigan, 12-1788,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Seventh Circuit
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  