-- Illinois Legislature Fails to Act on Quinn Pension Panel
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-01-08T23:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/illinois-house-panel-passes-quinn-backed-pension-panel.html
The Illinois Legislature adjourned
today without acting on a proposal from Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  that would create an eight-member panel to enact changes
in the state’s pensions.  Almost five months after failing to take action in a
special session, lawmakers didn’t restructure retirement systems
that are saddled with a $97 billion unfunded liability.  Quinn’s latest idea would have given broad powers to a
commission whose recommendations would go into effect unless
majorities of both legislative chambers reject them. Under the
proposal, which the governor said was “needed to break the
gridlock,” the Legislature’s majority and minority leaders
would each name two members to the panel.  “We need a new mechanism or structure to address this
issue,” Quinn told the House Personnel and Pensions Committee,
which endorsed the measure 7 to 2 earlier in the day.  Illinois has the weakest pension system in the U.S., with
39 percent funding for five major groups of public employees,
according to the Civic Federation, a Chicago-based nonprofit
research group. Lawmakers have failed to overcome political
obstacles to fixing the system.  The commission would have been patterned after a federal
panel that recommended military base closings in the 1990s and
2005. It would issue a report by April 30 on how to restructure
four state pension systems. The changes would go into effect
after 30 days unless lawmakers rejected them.  Union Opposition  Representatives of organized labor testified against the
proposal. “It’s a desperate Hail Mary pass,” said Michael
Carrigan, president of Illinois AFL-CIO, which represents almost
900,000 union members in the state, according to its website.  Lawmakers are deadlocked on pension changes. The House has
before it a measure that would require employees to pay an
additional 2 percent of their salaries to get their benefits. It
also would delay annual cost-of-living increases by six years,
until age 67, for retirees. A coalition of Illinois unions has
pledged to challenge that bill in court if it’s signed into law.  The state Senate approved a more limited pension
restructuring last year that doesn’t mandate higher
contributions. Senate President John Cullerton has said the
House approach “most likely violates” the state constitution,
Rikeesha Phelon, a Cullerton spokeswoman, said yesterday.  Pension requirements are consuming an increasing portion of
annual spending. Illinois devoted $5.7 billion to retirement
funding this year and is scheduled to pay $6.7 billion in the
next budget year, squeezing other services and programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Springfield at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  