-- India to Appoint Adviser to Examine Splitting Up Coal India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-08T10:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/india-to-appoint-adviser-to-examine-splitting-up-coal-india.html
India will consider splitting up  Coal
India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest producer of the fuel, to boost
output and make the sector more competitive, according to a
statement on the coal ministry’s website posted today.  The government is seeking to appoint a consulting firm to
study separating each of the company’s seven coal units into
independent entities, acting on a suggestion from the Indian
government’s  Planning Commission , which is led by Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh .  Kolkata-based Coal India, producer of more than 80 percent
of the country’s coal, is struggling to meet rising demand from
power utilities, which has led to an increase in imports and
power plants lying idle for want of fuel.  “We have an open mind and by appointing a consultant we
are getting an expert to decide on the merits of the idea,”
Coal Secretary S.K. Srivastava said yesterday in an interview.  The company was established in 1975 as a state-owned
entity. In 2010, it sold 10 percent of its shares in the
nation’s largest initial public offering.  “In the case of coal, import dependence is projected to
increase as the growth of thermal generation will require coal
supplies, which cannot be fully met from domestic mines,” the
Planning Commission said on its website.  Coal  India  shares were little changed at 360.25 rupees
at the close in Mumbai. The stock has gained 13 percent in the
past year, compared with a 25 percent gain in the benchmark
Sensex.  Client Benefit  “It will be a great thing to happen for both Coal India
and its clients, as higher autonomy to subsidiaries will lead to
higher output and smarter investment decisions, which will
ultimately benefit its clients,” said Deven Choksey, managing
director at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.  An ideal format could be Coal India remaining as the
holding company, through which its independent entities could
collectively bargain with suppliers and take advantage of its
size even as they compete for clients, Choksey said.  Chairman S. Narsing Rao declined to comment, saying he
would wait for the consultant’s report before voicing his views.  The consultant should be a company with at least 10 years
experience in advising on energy, mining and government policy,
the coal ministry said.  Shortages of coal and natural gas have forced companies,
including  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  and GVK Power & Infrastructure
Ltd., to shelve more than $35 billion worth of utility projects.  Coal India has eight units, including seven that mine coal
in different regions. Each has a board, headed by a chairman and
managing director. The boards can decide on operational issues,
but have no representation on Coal India’s board, where broader
policy decisions are taken. Two of these units, South-eastern
Coalfields Ltd. and Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd., produce more than
half of the company’s total coal production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  