-- Indian Stocks Climb, Erasing Earlier Losses; ITC, HDFC Gain
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-01-08T09:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/india-nifty-futures-gain-signaling-benchmark-indexes-may-rally.html
Indian (SENSEX)  shares advanced, erasing
earlier losses, as shares of lenders and  ITC Ltd. (ITC)  climbed.  The BSE  India  Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose 0.3 percent
to 19,755.31 at 3:07 p.m. in Mumbai. The gauge fell as much as
0.3 percent earlier. ITC, India’s biggest cigarette company,
climbed for the first time in five days.  Housing Development
Finance Corp. (HDFC) , the nation’s largest mortgage lender, gained 2
percent.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s biggest engineering
company, slid for the fourth day after the stock was downgraded
by Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc.  The Sensex rallied 26 percent in 2012, its  biggest annual
gain  since 2009, as government measures to bolster an  economy 
growing at the slowest pace in three years accelerated foreign
inflows. The government releases November factory output data on
Jan. 11.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest software maker,
begins the earnings season for Sensex companies on the same day,
announcing results for the quarter ended Dec. 31.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh began announcing in September
measures including raising diesel prices and allowing more
foreign investment in the retail and airline industries.  The policies helped lure $24.5 billion of foreign inflows
into local shares last year, the highest among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg. Global funds purchased $898 million more
Indian equities than they sold in the first four days of this
month, exchange data show, after U.S. lawmakers averted more
than $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts on Jan. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  