-- Iran Sets Conditions for IAEA Team to See Parchin Military Site
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-01-08T10:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/iran-sets-conditions-for-iaea-team-to-see-parchin-military-site.html
Iran ’s Foreign Ministry said it will
consider allowing International Atomic Energy Agency officials
to inspect a military site suspected of housing nuclear work
once the country’s right to enrich uranium is recognized by
Western powers.  “If we reach an agreement where Iran’s nuclear rights are
fully recognized, meaning the right to possess nuclear science
and the full nuclear cycle toward peaceful goals, Iran will be
ready to take necessary measures to allay concerns expressed by
the IAEA,” Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  told reporters in Tehran today. He was responding
to a question about whether the agency would be given access to
the Parchin military complex and whether Iran would impose any
conditions for the visit.  Today’s announcement casts doubt on whether a scheduled
Jan. 16 visit by IAEA inspectors will result in an agreement to
broaden inspections, as predicted by the agency last month. The
IAEA sees a visit to Parchin, about 30 kilometers (19 miles)
southeast of Tehran, as being its top goal in Iran. It says it
was given information showing Iran may have built a blast
chamber there for testing nuclear-weapons components.  The U.S. and its allies say Iran may be trying to make a
nuclear bomb, and have tightened trade and financial sanctions.
The U.S. and  Israel  have also threatened military strikes to
halt Iran’s nuclear program. Iran says the program is solely
civilian and needed to secure energy for a growing population.  While IAEA officials routinely inspect Iran’s declared
nuclear facilities, such as enrichment plants at Natanz and
Fordo, existing treaty arrangements don’t compel the country to
open up peripheral facilities such as Parchin.  Not Shared  Mehmanparast reiterated Iran’s argument that the evidence
given to the IAEA by unnamed countries isn’t genuine,
underlining that Iranian authorities, despite their requests,
haven’t been given access to the documents. “Throughout the
years the agency has never been able to share this intelligence
with us and it hasn’t been authenticated,” he said.  Mehmanparast didn’t say what progress has been made on
agreeing a time and place for the next round of high-level talks
between Iran and the so-called P5+1 group, made up of the U.S.,
U.K.,  Russia ,  China ,  France  and  Germany . They will meet “very
soon,” the EU said last week. The last round of negotiations
were in Moscow in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  