-- Ireland to Sell First Benchmark Syndicated Bond in Three Years
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-01-08T09:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/ireland-to-sell-first-benchmark-syndicated-bond-in-three-years.html
Ireland will today sell its first
bond through a syndicate of banks in three years as it continues
a return to debt markets in a bid to become the first euro-area
country to exit a bailout.  The  National Treasury Management Agency  will sell more of
the 2017 bonds, priced to yield about 260 basis points over the
mid-swaps rate, a fixed-rate market benchmark, said two people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified as
they’re not authorized to speak about it. Barclays Plc,  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Davy, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Societe
Generale SA will sell the bonds, the NTMA said yesterday.  Fiona Howard, a trader at Dublin-based Davy, a primary
dealer in Irish government debt, said she anticipates a
transaction size of between 1 billion euros ($1.31 billion) and
2 billion euros.  Prime Minister Enda Kenny is seeking to regain the
country’s economic sovereignty and leave the international
rescue program the country entered in 2010 ahead of fellow
bailed-out nations Portugal and  Greece . Ireland received a 67.5
billion-euro bailout in 2010.  In July, the government returned to international bond
markets after almost two years with the sale of 4.2 billion
euros of new debt. Yields on Ireland’s 2017 bond rose seven
basis points to 3.40 percent today. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. The five-year yield reached more than 17
percent in July 2011.  The NTMA plans to raise about 10 billion euros in the
market in 2013 as it returns to syndicated bond sales and
regular monthly long-term debt auctions, Chief Executive Officer
John Corrigan said in November.  “I expect the auction to be very well received by both
domestic and international investors,” said Ryan McGrath, a
bond trader at Dublin-based Dolmen Stockbrokers. “It can also
be assumed that a large proportion of the eventual size has
already been lined up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  