-- IRS Delays Tax-Filing Season Start to Jan. 30
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-01-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/irs-sets-tax-filing-season-start-for-jan-30-after-budget-deal.html
The IRS will start processing
individual income tax returns for 2012 on Jan. 30.  More than 120 million households, or the vast majority of
U.S.  tax  filers, will be able to file returns by the end of this
month, the Internal Revenue Service said in a statement
yesterday. The remainder, such as those who claim general
business credits, will have to wait until late February or March
because the IRS needs time to update forms.  The delay results from Congress passing last-minute changes
to tax law on Jan. 1.  “We have worked hard to open tax season as soon as
possible,” Steven Miller, the acting IRS commissioner, said in
the  statement . “This date ensures we have the time we need to
update and test our processing systems.”  The IRS had planned to open electronic filing this year on
Jan. 22.  “This is difficult news,” said Kathy Pickering, executive
director of the Tax Institute at  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the largest
U.S. tax preparer. “No one will be getting a refund in
January.”  Those who can afford it least will be among those most
affected by the delay, Pickering said. That’s because many of
the earliest filers are low-income, working families who claim
the earned income tax credit and use their refunds to pay bills.  The average refund received by individuals in 2012 was
about  $2,700 , according to the IRS.  ‘Thin Month’  “This is a lifeline for these individuals and families,”
Pickering said. “January is going to be a pretty thin month for
a lot of people.”  In addition to waiting longer for refunds, many taxpayers
also are seeing smaller paychecks this year because Congress
didn’t extend a two-percentage-point cut in the payroll tax that
expired at the end of 2012.  The IRS had said last month that it might delay tax-filing
season for as many as 100 million households, or two-thirds of
the total, if Congress didn’t reach an end-of-year budget
agreement.  The legislation signed by President  Barack Obama  on Jan. 2
averted most of the $600 billion in tax increases and spending
cuts -- known as the fiscal cliff -- scheduled to take effect
this month if Congress didn’t act.  The law also affected tax provisions that were pending for
2012 returns. It permanently indexed the alternative minimum tax
to inflation, preventing it from expanding to more households,
and extended tax credits that expired at the end of 2011, such
as those for energy improvements and businesses.  Tax Preparers  H&R Block is still trying to determine which forms the IRS
will need additional time to update and as a result, which
taxpayers may see filing delays into February or March,
Pickering said in an interview yesterday.  Companies including H&R Block and  Intuit Inc. (INTU) ’s TurboTax
said they have readied tax-preparation products for the recent
tax-law changes and software will update automatically or prompt
users to make changes when they log on.  Taxpayers can prepare their returns now online or in
stores, and the firms will hold them until the IRS opens filing
season on Jan. 30, according to H&R Block and TurboTax.  “TurboTax is up to date with all recent tax-law changes so
taxpayers can file early and be first in line to get their
refund,” Ashley McMahon, a spokeswoman for TurboTax, said in an
e-mail. “Once the IRS begins accepting e-filed returns on Jan.
30, TurboTax submits returns on a first-in, first-out basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  