-- Missing Terror Suspect Escaped in London Cab, May Told
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-08T14:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/missing-terror-suspect-escaped-in-london-cab-may-told.html
A man suspected in Britain of
terrorism offences, Ibrahim Magag, escaped surveillance by
ringing for a black London cab, U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May
was told.  The opposition  Labour Party ’s home affairs spokeswoman,
 Yvette Cooper , citing a Twitter posting from a taxi firm, told
lawmakers that Magag picked up the ride less than half a mile
(800 meters) from Euston station in London on Dec. 26. She had
called May to Parliament today to answer an emergency question
about the suspect’s escape.  Cooper said the government had made it easier for Magag,
who is suspected of attended terrorist training camps in
Somalia, to escape by allowing him to come back to London from
western  England , where he had been made to live under a so-
called control order restricting his movements.  May “has personally made it easier for people to
abscond,” Cooper said in the House of Commons. “Other people
previously relocated under control orders are also now back in
 London ” under newer anti-terrorism measures. “Could any one of
them simply jump in a black cab and be off?” Cooper asked.  The government replaced control orders, which put
restrictions on the movement of terrorist suspects who have not
been charged by police, with so-called terrorism prevention and
investigation measures in 2011. These require suspects to stay
overnight in their home for eight to 10 hours, down from 16
hours previously, and wear an electronic tag.  Magag is suspected of escaping after ripping off his tag.
Cooper said allowing him to move back to London had been a
mistake, because being in the West Country “he was made to live
under a control order -- harder to get help from his associates,
harder to hide, harder to get forged papers.”  May said she “does not believe that Magag’s disappearance
was linked to any current terrorism planning in the U.K.” She
also defended the new terrorism prevention orders, saying
control orders had not been foolproof.  “In six years of control orders, there were seven absconds
and of those seven cases, six were never apprehended,” May told
Cooper. “Magag’s abscond is serious and the authorities are
doing everything they can to locate him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  