-- Ivory Coast Cocoa Crop May Avoid Damage on Late Sahara Winds
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-01-08T11:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/ivory-coast-cocoa-crop-may-avoid-damage-on-late-sahara-winds.html
The cocoa crop in top producer Ivory
Coast may avoid damage from dryness this year as the Harmattan
winds, which blow from the  Sahara desert , arrived later than
usual, helping soil to retain moisture from rains.  The winds started reaching cocoa areas from mid-December,
instead of the first 10 days of the month, said Antoine Kouassi
Koffi, of the National Meteorological Service. Rainfall in the
central-western Daloa region, which produces 300,000 metric tons
of cocoa a year, was 83 percent more in December’s last 10 days
than the long-term average, the service’s data showed. In the
southwestern Soubre region, which produces a similar amount, the
towns of  San Pedro  and Tabou also got above-average rainfall.  The West African nation’s cocoa output will be 1.5 million
tons in 2012-13, compared with 1.476 million tons a year
earlier, according to an estimate by Keith Flury, a senior
commodities analyst at Rabobank International in  London . Farmers
started harvesting the main crop for the 2012-13 season in
October and will continue until March. A smaller harvest, known
as the mid crop, will be collected from April to September.
Cocoa climbed 8.6 percent in  New York  last January on
speculation the Harmattan winds would damage the crop.  “Because rainfall was quite good until at least late
December, it is difficult to think that the Harmattan will
create problems for the 2012-13 crop,” Steven Haws, founder of
 Commodities Risk Analysis  in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania , who has
followed cocoa since 1979, said yesterday by e-mail. “Good soil
moisture and low temperatures will blunt the effects of any
Harmattan winds.”  Cool Nights  The Harmattan have been moderate so far and usually ease as
they reach the southern part of  Ivory Coast , Koffi, an agro-
meteorology engineer at the weather service, said yesterday by
phone from the commercial capital, Abidjan. The winds are
reaching cocoa-growing areas of the southwest and southeast
during the day and the nights have been cool, with dense fog, he
said. Cocoa production in Ivory Coast is unlikely to be hurt if
the Harmattan stay as they are at the moment, he said.  Coastal areas of Ivory Coast will get 5 to 10 millimeters
(0.2 to 0.4 inches) of rain through Jan. 18, according to data
on the  website  of U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration yesterday.  “The rains have been a little bit slow in leaving the
coastal areas,” said  Drew Lerner , president of  Overland Park ,
Kansas-based World Weather Inc. “The whole evolution of weather
patterns there has been slower. Normally, we shouldn’t even see
the showers on the coast that we saw at the end of December.”  The winds, which blew at moderate strength last week, are
set to weaken again this week, said Kevin Marcus, founder of
weather consulting company  Marcus Weather  in Passaic,  New
Jersey . “Slightly stronger” winds in February may result in
damage to mid crops, he said.  “Given the rainfall patterns during October, November and
December last year, it is unlikely that the Harmattan will
impact negatively on the remainder of the main crop,” said
 Jonathan Parkman , co-head of agriculture at brokerage Marex
Spectron Group in London. “However, the potential impact upon
the mid crop is much greater and should be closely monitored
during the coming weeks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net 
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 