-- J&J Hip Case Set for Maryland Trial Dropped by Plaintiff
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-01-08T22:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/j-j-hip-case-set-for-maryland-trial-dropped-by-plaintiff.html
A former dancer withdrew her suit
against  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  over defective hip implants on the eve
of the first trial of more than 10,000 lawsuits claiming the
devices left patients immobilized.  Lawyers for Moira Jackson today asked to drop claims in
 Maryland  state court that J&J’s  DePuy  unit didn’t properly warn
her about the ASR hip implants’ risks. Judge  Crystal Dixon
Mittelstaedt  approved the request, according to court papers.  The request came after a seven-woman, five-man jury was
selected in Upper Marlboro, Maryland to consider Jackson’s
claims that the implants left the retired dancer immobilized, in
pain and subject to numerous surgeries.  J&J in 2010  recalled  its 93,000 ASR hips worldwide,
including 37,000 in the U.S., saying more than 12 percent of
them failed within five years. Patients suing J&J claim metal
debris from the hips, made from a cobalt-chromium alloy, causes
tissue death around the joint and may increase metal ions in the
bloodstream to harmful levels.  Lorie Gawreluk, a spokeswoman for  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J, declined in a telephone interview to comment
on the dismissal of the case.  Brian Franciskato , one of
Jackson’s lawyers, also didn’t return a call.  10,000 Cases  J&J faced 10,100 suits over the DePuy hips as of September,
according to a November  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The company increased reserves “due to
anticipated product liability litigation and costs associated
with” the ASR hips, it said in a court filing. It didn’t
specify the amount of the increase.  The company said in January 2012 that it spent about $800
million on hip recalls during the prior two years. J&J wouldn’t
estimate its product-liability costs.  Many of the hip suits have been consolidated before a
federal judge in  Ohio  for pretrial information exchanges. U.S.
District Judge  David Katz  in Toledo has set the first of those
cases to go to trial in May, according to a December court
filing. The second trial is set for July.  Cases Joined  Filings in Jackson’s case indicate that Franciskato may
refile his client’s claims in the consolidated federal
litigation.  Under an agreement between Jackson and J&J, the former
dancer will drop her suit in Maryland and her claims will be
“subject to refiling in federal court,” Susan Sharko, a lawyer
for the drugmaker, told Mittelstaedt today, according to a
transcript of the hearing.  The agreement to shift Jackson’s claims out of state court
came as a result of talks between J&J and the plaintiff’s
lawyers, the judge said.  Moving Jackson’s and other artificial-hip recipients’
claims to federal court in Ohio puts the suits in “a good place
for all the parties,”  Altom Maglio , another of the retired
dancer’s lawyers, told the judge. Maglio agreed to dismiss four
other hip claims filed in Maryland along with Jackson’s case.  The consolidated federal case is In re DePuy Orthopedics
Inc., ASR Hip Implant Products Liability Litigation, 10-MD-2197,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Ohio (Toledo). The
Maryland case is Jackson v. DePuy Orthopaedics Inc., CAL 10-
32147, Circuit Court, Prince George’s County, Maryland (Upper
Marlboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 