-- J&J Diabetes Pill May Have Heart Risks, FDA Staff Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-08T21:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/j-j-diabetes-pill-may-have-heart-risks-fda-staff-says.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s experimental
diabetes pill may carry heart risks, U.S. regulators said in a
review that threatens to delay the company’s first-to-market
status for a new family of medicines.  Studies for the drug canagliflozin, which expels sugar in
the urine after it’s filtered from blood by the kidneys, showed
a potentially higher risk for heart events in the first 30 days
compared with a placebo, Food and Drug Administration staff said
today in a  report . An FDA advisory panel is set to meet Jan. 10
to make recommendations to the agency on the drug.  The once-a-day pill is J&J’s effort to be the first to
market with a new class of diabetes treatments known as SGLT2
inhibitors aimed at cutting side effects from current drugs. The
drugs also are being developed by  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)   A delay to further assess risk “could erase its first
mover advantage,” Lawrence Biegelsen, an analyst with Wells
Fargo Securities in  New York , wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “A first-to-market position is an important
marketing advantage in this arena.”  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey ,  rose  less than 1
percent to $71.41 at 4 p.m. New York time. Canagliflozin may
generate $446 million in sales in 2016 if approved, according to
the  average  of three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Merck’s Januvia  The drugmaker has proposed marketing canagliflozin under
the name Invokana for adults with  Type 2 diabetes . It worked as
well against diabetes in clinical trials as Januvia,  Merck &
Co. (MRK) ’s second-best selling drug, and a generic treatment called
glimepiride, FDA staff said.  “Results from our nine Phase 3 studies suggest that
canagliflozin has the potential to help control blood sugar
levels in a wide range of people with Type 2 diabetes while also
offering other possible benefits like  weight loss  and reductions
in blood pressure,” said Ernie Knewitz, a spokesman for
Janssen, the J&J unit developing canagliflozin.  J&J submitted interim results of a study called Canvas on
the medicine’s cardiovascular effects that showed canagliflozin
also reduced blood pressure.  Regulators are scheduled to recommend whether to approve
the drug by the end of March.  Potential Delay  The studies reviewed so far showed that during the first 30
days of the cardiovascular trial, 13 cardiovascular events
occurred on canagliflozin and one on placebo, according to the
FDA staff. The drug raises LDL, or bad cholesterol, which may
lead to the heart risk, despite favorable changes in HDL, or
good, cholesterol,  blood pressure  and body weight, staff said.  “It is unclear whether this is a spurious finding or a
true increased risk of early CV events,” staff said.  Additional follow-up may not address the signals of early
heart risk and the FDA may decide to manage the harm through
labeling, Biegelsen said today in a note. There is still a risk
the FDA may wait until full data from the Canvas study becomes
available in April, he said.  Diabetes is the seventh-leading cause of death in the U.S.,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The
disease, defined by high levels of sugar in the blood, affected
almost 26 million people in the U.S. in 2010, or about 8.3
percent of the population, the Atlanta-based CDC said.  ‘Welcome Option’  There are 11 groups of diabetes drugs on the market, said
 Osama Hamdy , director of the obesity and inpatient diabetes
programs at the Joslin Diabetes Center affiliated with  Harvard
Medical School  in  Boston . Most of the treatments stimulate the
pancreas to secrete insulin or improve the body’s sensitivity to
insulin, a hormone that helps control blood sugar.  SGLT2 inhibitors, like the one J&J developed, don’t cause
low blood sugar or weight gain and because they’re the first to
work on the kidney, they can be combined with any other diabetes
medication for maximum effect, Hamdy said by phone.  “As a class of drugs available for Type 2 diabetes
treatment, this is a welcome option,” the  American Diabetes
Association , based in Alexandria,  Virginia , said in a statement.  Lilly, based in Indianapolis, and  Boehringer Ingelheim , a
closely held company based in Ingelheim, Germany, plan to apply
for approval this year of their SGLT2 inhibitor empagliflozin,
the companies said yesterday in a statement.  New York-based Bristol-Myers and London-based AstraZeneca
are working to address FDA concerns with their product
dapagliflozin, and may resubmit an application for review in the
middle of this year. The FDA sought more data on New York-based
Bristol-Myers and London-based AstraZeneca’s dapagliflozin after
advisers determined the risks of bladder and breast cancer
outweigh the benefits of the medicine.  J&J’s canagliflozin doesn’t show an increased risk of such
malignancies, FDA staff said. The agency asked advisers to
discuss the medicine’s potential to cause fractures, seen in
animal studies, and adverse kidney effects.  Patients who used canagliflozin in clinical trials
experienced genital fungal infections, increased urination and
urinary tract infections, J&J said in a  statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  