-- Japan Mulling BOJ Accord Linked to Employment, Mainichi Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-01-08T06:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/japan-weighing-boj-accord-with-employment-mandate-mainichi-says.html
The Japanese government and the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  are discussing a policy accord aimed at achieving
stable employment conditions, the Mainichi newspaper reported.  The agreement won’t define any specific policies to be
followed by the central bank and won’t set a timeframe for
achieving a 2 percent inflation goal sought by Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, the Mainichi reported today, without citing anyone
and without giving any further details.  While Federal Reserve officials are debating how soon to
end their cash infusions,  Japan ’s central bank is under pressure
from Abe to do more to end deflation and boost growth. The yen
has weakened around 8 percent since mid-November as Abe has
called for unlimited liquidity, with the currency sliding
through 88 per dollar in  Tokyo  last week for the first time
since July 2010.  “It would be hard for the BOJ to influence the
unemployment rate through monetary policy, especially when the
economy is mired in deflation,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief
economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. and a former BOJ
official. “Japan’s labor market problems are about a mismatch
of demand and supply, and it would be complicated for the BOJ to
improve that.”  When asked about the report at a press briefing in Tokyo
today, Finance Minister Taro Aso said that the BOJ shouldn’t
have sole responsibility for improving employment conditions.  The result of the government’s discussions with the BOJ
will be announced at the central bank’s meeting on Jan. 21-22,
the Mainichi said.  A BOJ spokesman declined to comment on the report.  Last month, the Fed linked the outlook for its main
 interest rate  to unemployment, saying rates will stay low “at
least as long” as the U.S. jobless rate remains above 6.5
percent.  Japan’s  unemployment rate  fell to a four-year low of 4.1
percent in November, the government said last month.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s board pledged last month
to review its inflation goal of 1 percent after Abe called for
the target to be doubled.  The yen appreciated 0.5 percent to 87.35 per dollar as of
3:35 p.m. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  