-- Japan to Buy European Debt With Currency Reserves to Weaken Yen
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-01-08T12:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/japan-to-buy-esm-bonds-using-forex-reserves-to-help-weaken-yen.html
Japan  plans to use its foreign-
exchange reserves to buy bonds issued by the European Stability
Mechanism and euro-area sovereigns, as the nation seeks to
weaken its currency, Finance Minister Taro Aso said.  “The financial stability of  Europe  will help the stability
of foreign-exchange rates, including the yen,” Aso told
reporters today at a briefing in  Tokyo . “From this perspective,
Japan plans to buy ESM bonds,” he said. The purchase amount is
undecided, Aso said.  The move may help Prime Minister Shinzo Abe temper
criticism of Japan’s currency policies from trading partners
such as the U.S. The yen has fallen around 8 percent against the
dollar since mid-November on Abe’s pledge to reverse more than a
decade of deflation as his  Liberal Democratic Party  won an
election victory last month.  “The Europeans would be happy to see Japan buy ESM bonds,
so Japan can avoid criticism from abroad and at the same time
achieve its objective,” said Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at
JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. and a former central bank
official.  The yen erased gains after Aso’s comments, reaching 87.81
per dollar, before appreciating again to 87.51 as of 7:14 a.m.
 New York  time. The Japanese currency appreciated 0.3 percent to
114.86 per euro.  The ESM held its first debt auction today, selling 1.9
billion euros ($2.5 billion) of three-month bills at an average
yield of minus 0.0324 percent. Investors placed bids for 6.2
billion euros of the securities, the Bundesbank said.  ‘Political Move’  Marshall Gittler, head of global foreign-exchange strategy
at IronFX Financial Services in Cyprus and a former yen
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo, said he doesn’t think
the plan will have a significant impact on the Japanese
currency.  “This might be more of a political move to counter any
criticism that the Europeans might have about any other steps
that Japan might take to weaken the yen,” he said. “So watch
out for the next shoe to drop.”  The U.S. criticized Japan for undertaking unilateral sales
of the yen in 2011, after Group of Seven economies jointly
intervened to weaken the currency in the aftermath of the record
earthquake and tsunami that year.  “Rather than reacting to domestic ‘strong-yen’ concerns by
intervening to try to influence the  exchange rate , Japan should
take fundamental and thoroughgoing steps to increase the
dynamism of the domestic economy,” the Treasury Department said
in a report in December 2011.  Reviving Growth  Last month, Aso said other countries have “no right” to
criticize Japan’s currency policies, saying that the U.S. should
have a stronger dollar. He also questioned whether major Group
of 20 nations had stuck to pledges from 2009 to avoid
competitive currency devaluations.  Abe faces the task of reviving growth after the economy
contracted in the second and third quarters of last year,
meeting the textbook definition of a recession. The nation’s
industrial output tumbled more than forecast in November to the
lowest level since the aftermath of 2011’s quake.  The ESM replaces the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility, and the two funds will run in parallel until the EFSF
is phased out in mid-2013. The EFSF was formed in 2010 to
provide loans to cash-strapped European Union countries.  The ESM’s birth was eased by the  European Central Bank ’s
offer to buy bonds of fiscally struggling countries, which has
driven down  interest rates  in Spain and  Italy  and bought
European governments time to address the root causes of the
crisis.  “Japan considers ESM bonds a major investment tool just
like euro-denominated sovereign bonds” Aso said today.  Japan purchased about 7 billion euros of EFSF bonds, or 6.7
percent of total issuance, between the lender’s first auction in
January 2011 and the end of 2012, according to the  Finance
Ministry .  Japan held $1.27 trillion in foreign reserves as the end of
November, according to finance ministry data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  