-- Jeter Is Hall of Fame Merchants’ Angel as Drugs Taint 2013 Class
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/jeter-is-hall-of-fame-merchants-hope-as-steroids-blot-2013-list.html
Derek Jeter  is the angel that
business owners near the National  Baseball Hall of Fame  are
waiting for as they worry about a drug-stained 2013 class that
may lack a living member.  Roger Clemens  and  Barry Bonds , the steroid-tainted Major
League Baseball players who are the sport’s most decorated in
history, are among  24 new candidates  for election to the
Cooperstown, New York-based Hall, which will announce today who
will be enshrined on July 28.  A decision by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America
to follow precedent and pass on Clemens and Bonds because of
their links to drugs would prevent Cooperstown businesses from
reaping profits such as those of 2007, when Cal Ripken Jr. and
Tony Gwynn joined the Hall in front of a record 75,000 fans.
Merchants are looking ahead to the induction of Jeter, 38, the
clean-image 13-time All-Star whose  New York Yankees  fan base is
within driving distance of the museum. That’s a minimum of at
least five years away, and it’s already in the planning stages.  “It will be the biggest this town has ever seen,” said
Vincent Carfagno, the owner of the Cooperstown baseball
memorabilia store  Seventh Inning Stretch . “It will be double
Ripken, as long as people can park and there are still rooms for
people to stay.”  Carfagno, 41, said the 2007 induction weekend accounted for
20 percent to 25 percent of his gross revenue that year, while
less popular elections such as Barry Larkin’s in 2012 account
for 5 percent to 10 percent. He wouldn’t give dollar figures.  Vote Watch  “We’ll know, once the votes come out, whether it’s going
to be a slow year,” Carfagno said in a telephone interview.  Brad Horn, a spokesman for the non-profit Hall, said each
induction ceremony was part of a year-round operation.  “When we have large crowds, that brings additional
resource challenges and additional opportunities for revenue,”
he said in a telephone interview.  Had it not been for the taint of steroids, the July 27-28,
2013, induction weekend would have been among the most
anticipated for the Hall, which opened in 1939.  Bonds, whose 762 home runs for the Pittsburgh Pirates and
 San Francisco Giants  are the most in major league history, was
voted the National League’s Most Valuable Player a record seven
times. Clemens, whose 354 wins for the  Boston Red Sox , New York
Yankees,  Houston Astros  and  Toronto Blue Jays  place him ninth on
the career list, won a record seven Cy Young Awards as the best
pitcher in his league.  Both were tied to the use of either steroids or human
growth hormone in the 2007 report by former U.S. Senator  George Mitchell . Another new Hall candidate,  Sammy Sosa , failed a drug
test, according to the New York Times.  Clemens Case  Clemens last June was acquitted of lying to Congress about
his use of banned drugs. His first prosecution ended in a
mistrial in July 2011.  Bonds was convicted in April 2010 by a federal jury in  San
Francisco  of obstructing a U.S. probe of steroid use by
professional athletes. Jurors were unable to agree on whether he
lied when he told a grand jury in 2003 that he didn’t knowingly
take steroids or HGH and didn’t receive injections from his
trainer. A mistrial was declared on those counts.  Sosa, whose 609 career homers are the eighth most, tested
positive for banned drug use in 2003, according to a Times
report. He told a U.S. congressional committee in 2005 that he
never used banned muscle-builders.  In recent years, the writers association has snubbed
players with drug ties, such as  Mark McGwire  who confessed to
steroid use and  Rafael Palmeiro  who failed a test for
performance enhancers.  ‘Angry People’  “I obviously have a business to run but if they got in it
would obviously be better for all of us, for the economy, for
Cooperstown,” said Teresa Weybrew, director of sales at
Hatfield, Massachusetts-based  Sports Travel and Tours , which has
a licensing agreement with the Hall to provide travel packages.
“But it’s a very difficult call to make and I know there’s a
lot of angry people out there.”  Other first-time candidates such as catcher  Mike Piazza ,
second baseman Craig Biggio and pitcher  Curt Schilling , while
never being specifically linked to illicit drug use, played
during an era that cast suspicion upon just about every player.  Candidates must receive 75 percent of the votes of BBWAA
members to gain induction. Pitcher Jack Morris, with 66.7
percent, received the most votes last year without getting
elected, followed by Jeff Bagwell with 56 percent.  If no one is elected by the BBWAA, the Hall still will
honor umpire Hank O’Day, former Yankees owner Jacob Ruppert and
Deacon White, who played from 1871 to 1890, all of whom died at
least 72 years ago. They were elected by the Hall’s Pre-
Integration Era Committee and lack automatic drawing power.  Big Difference  “From a business standpoint, it really could be huge,”
said Chris Grady, whose family owns  Stagecoach Coffee  in
Cooperstown, which in 2010 had a population of 1,852. “It does
make a big difference for that weekend.”  Grady, 33, said a year like the one in which Ripken, a 19-
time All-Star for the  Baltimore Orioles  who set the record for
consecutive games played, was inducted doubled his profits that
weekend and helped business through the rest of the year.  “After a guy goes in, you see a huge influx of those
teams’ fans,” Grady said in a telephone interview. “Orioles
fans were just crazy that year. They kept coming all through the
fall.”  The Oneonta Hampton Inn, about 20 minutes from Cooperstown,
probably will fill regardless of who is enshrined, according to
Sales Manager Ashley Camarata. For Ripken’s induction, lodging
was booked past  Albany , New York, about a 90-minute drive from
the museum, she said.  Land Hunt  Local officials had to negotiate with farmers near the
museum to borrow land for parking cars and busing visitors in
2007, said Patricia Szarpa, the executive director of the
Cooperstown Chamber of Commerce. She called today’s announcement
“an important thing, but I don’t think it’s as much a do-or-die
situation as some people might think it is.”  “Since 1939, there’s been ebbs and flows of big years and
little years,” Szarpa said in a telephone interview. “We’re
going to make as big a party of if as we can, regardless.”  Jeter, the shortstop whose 3,304 hits are 11th on the
career list, is preparing to play this season and has a contract
option through 2014. Players become eligible for the Hall five
years after retirement.  Whenever Jeter’s election arrives, it will produce a
weekend already being planned for by village and county
officials, said Szarpa.  “It’s going to be mayhem,” she said. “Now, that will be
the year that you’ll love to be here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  