-- Ryan Gets ‘New Chance’ After Surviving Makeover by NFL N.Y. Jets
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/jets-fire-offensive-coordinator-tony-sparano-after-one-season.html
New York Jets coach  Rex Ryan  avoided
the fallout of a 6-10 season that cost four of his assistants
and his boss, general manager Mike Tannenbaum, their jobs.  Ryan and Jets owner  Woody Johnson  met with reporters
yesterday for the first time since the  National Football
League ’s regular season ended nine days ago.  Johnson said the season was a failure while giving a vote
of confidence to Ryan, who announced the firings of offensive
coordinator  Tony Sparano , quarterbacks coach Matt Cavanaugh and
strength and conditioning coach Bill Hughan. Ryan also said
defensive coordinator Mike Pettine, who has interviewed for the
same job with the  Buffalo Bills , won’t return. Johnson said
Ryan’s job is safe regardless of who replaces Tannenbaum.  “I’m approaching this day like it’s my first day as a head
coach” Ryan, 50, said in a news conference at the Jets’
training complex in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey . “I have four
years of experience, but the same challenge I took four years
ago, I’ve been given a great opportunity by Mr. Johnson to move
forward. This is it. This is a new chance for me and that’s how
I’m approaching it. This is a beginning, not an end.”  Johnson said there’s no mandate that the Jets make the
playoffs next season for Ryan, who has two years remaining on
his contract, to keep his job. Johnson also said that Ryan will
have input in finding Tannenbaum’s replacement.  Failed Year  “We failed this year,” Johnson said. “We’re not happy.
We’re making changes to correct that. I feel these changes will
have a meaningful impact. If you surround yourself with people
who are smart in a particular area -- we’re talking football --
you’re going to get a good product.”  The Jets gained the third-fewest yards in the NFL and
struggled with three quarterbacks while missing the playoffs for
the second year in a row. The Jets’ offense averaged 17.6 points
under Sparano, fifth worst in the NFL, and was limited to 12
touchdowns in the final nine games.  “Tony did a lot of good things,” Ryan said. “At the end
of the day, I wanted to move this team in a different direction
offensively.”  Mark Sanchez  had the worst season of his four-year career
and was benched during Week 16 in favor of third-string
quarterback  Greg McElroy .  Tim Tebow , listed as the backup after
a high-profile preseason trade from Denver, was used sparingly
at the position.  Sanchez’s Turnovers  Sanchez had an NFL-high 27 turnovers, including 18
interceptions. Ryan declined to say whether Sanchez would be the
Jets’ starting quarterback next season, or if Tebow would have a
bigger role.  “It’s way too early to say what any of our players’ future
is,” Ryan said. “We need to get an offensive system in place
and then we’ll make that determination.”  Ryan and Johnson both said finances wouldn’t play a factor
in whether Sanchez starts in 2013. Sanchez was the Jets’ first-
round draft pick in 2009 and is guaranteed $8.25 million next
season. The Jets would face a $17.1 million salary cap hit over
the next two years if they cut him.  “Money doesn’t have anything to do with it,” Ryan said.
“We’re looking for the best player.”  Ryan, who started his tenure with the Jets by predicting a
 Super Bowl  title, sidestepped a question on whether the current
roster has the talent to win an NFL championship. The Super Bowl
will be played at the Jets’ MetLife Stadium in  East Rutherford ,
New Jersey, following the 2013 season.  Team Improvements  “There’s a lot of things we have to improve on,” Ryan
said. “We have to take little positive steps and it starts with
the hiring of the GM and two new coordinators. I will say this,
having that at our stadium, there’s not a coach in this world
that doesn’t want to get there and you’re looking at one of
them.”  He said he was concerned after the season about losing his
job, though Johnson said he didn’t consider making that change.  Ryan said one of the biggest failures in  New York  has been
an inability to stamp his personality on the offense.  “I want a physical, aggressive, attack style of football
team, whether its offense or defense,” Ryan said. “I don’t
think I’ve done a good enough job of getting that through to the
entire football team.”  Ryan said he hopes to run different offensive systems next
season and that the team is compiling a list of offensive
coordinator candidates. He said the defensive coordinator job
probably would be filled by someone in the organization, without
being specific.  Right Coach  While saying he was embarrassed at times by the Jets’
performance this season, Johnson said he’s confident Ryan
remains the right coach for the franchise. Johnson declined to
identify any general manager candidates.  “We’re looking at somebody who can guide us to the next
level of success and change the dynamic in a way that yields
success on the field,” Johnson said. “The people we’re talking
to are exceptionally good and each one brings something
different.”  Johnson also said he sympathizes with the frustration of
fans, some of whom have sought to sell the personal-seat
licenses needed to buy season tickets.  “Our fans are very passionate and they’re going to lash
out and express their feelings,” Johnson said. “I don’t blame
them, quite frankly. It would be worse if they were apathetic. I
want them to care. We work for the fans, we want to produce a
better product, and that’s why we’re making these changes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  