-- JPMorgan Says Saudi Fransi Net Sets Strong Expectation for Banks
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2013-01-08T05:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/jpmorgan-says-saudi-fransi-net-sets-strong-expectation-for-banks.html
Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR) , whose fourth-
quarter profit topped estimates, will probably spur “upbeat”
earnings expectations for other banks in the largest Arab
economy, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The fifth-biggest Saudi Arabian lender, part-owned by
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said yesterday quarterly  profit  climbed 22
percent to 808 million riyals ($215 million). That beat the
average estimate of  five analysts  for a profit of 750 million
riyals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Total operating
income rose 16 percent, while net special commission income
increased 7 percent to 834 million riyals.  “This is an encouraging start to the Saudi banks’
reporting,” JPMorgan analysts, including Naresh Bilandani and
Christian Kern, wrote in a note to clients. It “will likely set
upbeat expectations for full-year reporting of peers, given
investor concerns on the sector post a damp third quarter, which
was negatively impacted by higher-than-expected provisioning.”  Saudi Arabian lenders are benefiting from lending to
government projects as the world’s top oil exporter pursues more
than $500 billion of investments to develop infrastructure and
create jobs.  Al-Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s biggest lender by
market value, will probably post a 7  percent increase  in 2012
net income next week to 7.92 billion riyals, according to the
mean estimate of fourteen analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Rising Provisions  Shares of Saudi banks underperformed the benchmark index
last year and third-quarter net missed estimates as rising
provisions against bad loans from construction companies
eclipsed the fastest loan growth in three years. The Tadawul All
Share Bank Index rose 0.4 percent in 2012, compared with a 6
percent gain for the Tadawul. Saudi Fransi shares tumbled 13
percent in the period.  JPMorgan has an overweight recommendation on the stock with
a price estimate of 42 riyals. The shares, which are unchanged
so far this month, closed at 29.40 riyals in Riyadh trading
yesterday.  Saudi Fransi’s “earnings have bounced sharply as non-
interest income recovered and provisioning costs normalized,”
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE said in a research note yesterday.
“However, balance sheet growth was sluggish, with loan growth
decelerating and deposits declining marginally. Net interest
spreads are likely to have been impacted by year-end hike in
deposit rates, and should recover in the first quarter of
2013.” EFG-Hermes also has a price estimate of 42 riyals for
the stock, with a buy recommendation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  