-- JPMorgan’s Staley Quits to Join BlueMountain Hedge Fund
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-01-08T16:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/jpmorgan-s-staley-quits-to-join-bluemountain-hedge-fund.html
James E. Staley, the  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  executive once seen as a candidate to become chief executive
officer, quit to join BlueMountain Capital Management LLC, the
$12 billion hedge fund that profited from the bank’s trading
loss last year.  Staley, who was at JPMorgan for more than 34 years, will
become a managing partner and purchase a stake in BlueMountain,
the New York-based firm said today. The former investment
banking chief, Staley last year handed off day-to-day management
duties and became chairman of the corporate and investment bank
in a series of executive changes as JPMorgan grappled with
wrong-way bets in its chief investment office in  London .  “I’m very excited to be joining BlueMountain at a time
when sea changes in the financial industry combined with the
firm’s unique strengths open up enormous possibilities to
deliver value to clients,” Staley, 56, said in the statement.  Staley, who rose from his post as an investment banker in
 Brazil , took over JPMorgan’s investment bank in 2010 after chief
executive officer Jamie Dimon ousted co-heads Steve Black and
Bill Winters. He was stripped of all day-to-day management
duties and passed over for promotion in July. He had been
looking for a new job for several months, according to people
with knowledge of the situation.  BlueMountain, co-founded in 2003 by Andrew Feldstein, who
helped create the credit-derivatives market while he worked for
JPMorgan in the 1990s, aided the bank last year as it unwound
trades at the heart of what became at least $6.2 billion in
losses at its CIO unit.  ‘Ethical People’  “Jes is one of the most experienced and successful leaders
in the industry and has played a key role at one of the world’s
most successful financial institutions,”Feldstein, the 48-
year-old chief executive and chief investment officer of
BlueMountain, said in the statement. “Not only has he had a
front row seat for the evolution of the financial industry, but
he’s also one of the most ethical people we’ve worked with.”  BlueMountain benefited after a trader in the JPMorgan CIO
unit, Bruno Iksil, had built a portfolio of credit derivatives
so large it distorted price relationships in the market, first
reported by Bloomberg News on April 5. The hedge fund compiled
offsetting index trades to help JPMorgan unwind the position,
people familiar with the trading said at the time.  Staley warned Dimon that supervision and risk controls in
former Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew’s division weren’t
strong enough, current and former executives said last year.
Dimon brushed off the concerns, one of the people said. JPMorgan
has denied that assertion.  Warning Dimon  Staley was moved to a new role in July when Dimon named
 Matt Zames , who worked for Staley in the investment bank, co-
chief operating officer with Frank Bisignano. London-based
Barclays Plc and Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc. both considered
hiring him as CEO during searches last year, the Wall Street
Journal and CNBC reported at the time.  “Jes has been an extraordinary leader and a valued partner
for many of us at JPMorgan over the years,” Dimon said in an e-
mail to senior managers today. “While Jes is leaving JPMorgan
Chase, he is joining a respected private investment firm,
BlueMountain Capital. BlueMountain is an important client of
ours, and we look forward to working with Jes in the future.”  Feldstein co-founded BlueMountain with Harvard Law friend
Stephen Siderow in a spinoff from BlueCrest Capital Management
LLP. Affiliated Managers Group Inc., the company with stakes in
firms overseeing about $416 billion, last year increased its
minority stake in BlueMountain.  Proceeds from the stake sale to Staley will be invested in
new infrastructure, technology and people, BlueMountain said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  