-- Dimon Exits New York Fed Board After Expiration of Term
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-01-08T22:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/jpmorgan-s-dimon-leaves-new-york-fed-board-after-term-expiration.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  has left the board of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York.  Dimon is no longer on the board after the Dec. 31
expiration of his second term as a director,  Jack Gutt , a
spokesman for the New York Fed, said today in a telephone
interview. Dimon was a Class A director, elected by the banks in
the New York Fed’s district. A replacement has not yet been
named.  Lawmakers last year criticized Dimon for serving on the Fed
district bank’s board after JPMorgan reported a trading loss
that rekindled concern the New York Fed, the company’s principal
regulator, is too cozy with Wall Street. Senator  Bernie Sanders ,
a Vermont independent, along with Democrats Barbara Boxer of
California and  Mark Begich  of Alaska, introduced legislation
last year that would remove the industry’s executives from the
12 regional Fed banks’ boards.  Congress created the Fed in 1913 with public and private
features. Three bankers are on each of the 12 Fed district bank
boards, along with six other directors who represent the
borrowing public. They play no part in bank supervision.  Dimon said in June that the district banks benefit from
industry leaders’ input.  “If I had a board, I’d want to hear from a lot of
different types of people,” Dimon said June 19 at a hearing of
the House Financial Services Committee in Washington. “It’d be
funny to be talking about global markets and not have someone
involved in the global markets at the table. It certainly does
not have to be me.”  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for the bank, said Dimon
finished out his term, declining further comment. Dimon’s
departure from the board was earlier reported by the New York
Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  