-- Kenny Takes Irish Debt Relief Fight to Alps as Investors Rush In
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-01-08T12:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/kenny-takes-irish-debt-relief-fight-to-alps-as-investors-rush-in.html
Ireland’s Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
took the fight for debt relief to the German Alps as investors
today rushed to buy bonds in the country’s first syndicated sale
in three years.  The Dublin-based  National Treasury Management Agency  sold
about 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) more of its 2017 bonds,
after getting around 7 billion euros of orders, according to two
people familiar with the matter. The bonds were priced to yield
250 basis points above the mid-swaps rate, a fixed-rate market
benchmark, said the people, who asked not to be identified, as
they are not authorized to speak about it.  “While we made progress, our economic situation is fragile
and needs on-going support and European solidarity,” Kenny told
reporters after meeting  Christian Democratic Union  lawmakers
at Wildbad Kreuth, southern  Germany .  Kenny wants other European leaders and the  European Central
Bank  to help lower the burden of a 64 billion-euro ($84 billion)
bank bailout bill, as the nation seeks to exit its bailout
program by the end of the year. Irish Central Bank Governor
 Patrick Honohan  said today investors aren’t giving the country
enough credit for its efforts to narrow the deficit, as the
state remains tied to its banking system.  While Irish spreads no longer reflect a risk that the
nation exits the euro, “at 300 basis points at the long-end,
they do seem to reflect a credit risk premium that is poor
reward, so far, for what has been a sizeable fiscal adjustment
effort,” Honohan said in a speech in  Basel ,  Switzerland .  Damaging Loop  The extra yield investors demand to hold Irish 5-year bonds
instead of their German equivalents rose to more than 1,500
basis points by July 2011 from 15 basis points on January 10
2008. The spread has since fallen to 282 basis points.  The spread may reflect concerns about Irish taxpayers’
exposure to the nation’s banks. The state now controls five of
the country’s six biggest domestic lenders after a real estate
bubble burst in 2008, pushing the country’s financial system
close to collapse.  “The pernicious feedback loop from banks to sovereigns and
from sovereign to banks that re-emerged in the crisis remains
strong and damaging,” Honohan said.  In the wake of a June 29 pledge by European leaders to
break the link between governments and banks, Irish Finance
Minister  Michael Noonan  said he may seek to sell stakes in
Ireland’s surviving banks to the European Stability Mechanism.  The government is also seeking an accord with the ECB to
refinance so-called promissory notes used to rescue the former
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. So far, an agreement has proved elusive.  Celtic Tiger  “The support committed by  Europe  must be followed through
in order to make it easier for Ireland to exit our program,”
Kenny said today. He said he hopes for a conclusion on the Anglo
talks “as quickly as possible.”  Kenny’s campaign may be starting to bear fruit.  “A positive development of Ireland is not only in the
interest of Ireland but is also an important signal for Europe
as a whole,” said Gerda Hasselfeldt, the Bundestag caucus
leader for the CSU, at the press conference. The “discussion
brought a lot of understanding among my colleagues for the
special situation of Ireland.”  Industrial production figures released today indicated that
a return to the  Celtic Tiger  era won’t happen anytime soon.
Output fell 2.1 percent in November from the previous month and
6.8 percent on the year.  The figures “show the largest three-month contraction in
output since 1980,” driven by a number of drugs coming off
patent, said Conall Mac Coille, chief economist at Dublin-based
securities firm Davy.  Market Return  Still, in July, the government returned to international
bond markets after almost two years with the sale of 4.2 billion
euros of new debt.  Building on last year’s moves, the country’s debt agency
hired Barclays Plc, Danske Bank A/S, Davy, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and Societe Generale SA to carry out today’s
bond sale.  In July, the government returned to bond markets after
almost two years with the sale of 4.2 billion euros of new debt.  Yields on Ireland’s 2017 bond fell six basis points to 3.27
percent today. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The five-
year yield reached more than 17 percent in July 2011.  “Our International clients that have recently taken profit
on Irish corporates bonds are now reinvesting this cash into
Irish sovereign risk,” said Damien Butler, a Dublin-based fixed
-income salesman at Canaccord Genuity, the investment banking
unit of Canaccord Financial Inc.  -- With assistance from Joseph de Weck in Wildbad Kreuth and
Cormac Mullen in Dublin. Editors: Dara Doyle, Fergal O’Brien  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  