-- Kenya May Cut Benchmark Interest Rate for Fourth Time
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-01-08T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/kenya-may-cut-benchmark-interest-rate-for-fourth-time.html
Kenya ’s central bank will probably
cut its  key interest rate  for a fourth time as policy makers
take advantage of the lowest inflation rate in two years to help
spur the economy’s recovery.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by central bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u, will reduce the benchmark  interest rate  to 10
percent from 11 percent, according to four of six economists
polled in a Bloomberg News survey. One analyst predicted the
rate will stay unchanged while the other forecast 9 percent. The
Nairobi-based bank is expected to announce its decision tomorrow
afternoon in an e-mailed statement.  The central bank has adequate grounds to lower borrowing
costs as “inflation will remain low in the single digits in
2013,” Yvonne Mhango, an economist for sub-Saharan Africa at
 Renaissance Capital , said in an e-mailed reply to questions.  Kenya trimmed its policy rate by seven percentage points in
the second half of last year to help lift domestic consumption
as weakening global growth hurt farming exports and tourism, the
country’s leading foreign exchange earners. Growth in East
Africa’s largest economy slowed to 3.4 percent in the first
quarter of 2012 and 3.3 percent the second, before picking up to
4.7 percent between July and September.  Inflation slowed to 3.2 percent in December as food prices
eased with the onset of abundant rain-fed harvests. The worst
regional drought in 60 years hampered agricultural output in
2011.  Currency Weakness  The bank may keep the rate unchanged to stem a decline in
the local currency after it hit a seven-month low yesterday,
said Judd Murigi, head of  East Africa  research at Nairobi-based
African Alliance Kenya Investment Bank.  “The shilling is susceptible to weakness given that we’re
a couple months away from elections and investors want to stick
to the safe side before that,” he said in a phone interview.  Kenya is scheduled on March 4 to hold its first national
elections since a disputed vote in 2007 ignited two months of
ethnic clashes that left more than 1,100 dead and displaced
another 350,000.  The shilling slid to as low as 86.60 a dollar yesterday,
the lowest closing level since May 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  