-- KKR to Increase Investment in China Water-Treatment Provider UEL
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2013-01-08T18:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/kkr-to-increase-investment-in-china-water-treatment-provider-uel.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  has agreed to increase its
stake in  United Envirotech Ltd. (UENV) , a membrane-based water and
water treatment provider in China’s chemical, petrochemical and
industrial park sectors, boosting its investment by $40 million.  KKR’s share purchase agreement with United Envirotech is
the second water-related investment by the private equity firm
since Dec. 20, when KKR and United Water, a subsidiary of
France’s  Suez Environnement Co. (SEV) , formed a partnership to operate
a water and wastewater system in Bayonne,  New Jersey .  United Envirotech said that KKR entered into a definitive
agreement with the company for a $40 million common equity
investment. KKR subscribed to $113.8 million in convertible
bonds issued by UEL in October 2011 to support the company’s
expansion, and has worked with UEL “to capture the attractive
growth opportunities in China’s water industry,” it said.  KKR “is excited to have the opportunity to increase our
investment in UEL,” David Liu, chief executive officer of KKR
Greater China, said in the statement.  Proceeds from KKR’s investment, expected to conclude by
March, will be used to fund the acquisition of water treatment
plants, increase working capital and upgrade existing
facilities, UEL said. UEL’s clients include China National
Offshore Oil Corp. or Cnooc and  Sembcorp Industries Ltd. (SCI)  in
Singapore, the company said.   Working with New York-based KKR, UEL can “leverage” their
global resources, operational capabilities and China team’s
local experience and track record, said founder Lin Yucheng,
chairman and chief executive of UEL.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in London at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  