-- Koch, Elvis, Eichmann Get Spotlight in Jewish Film Fest
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-01-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/koch-elvis-eichmann-get-spotlight-in-jewish-film-fest.html
A trio of documentaries dealing with
famous (and famously opinionated) local heroes punctuates the
 New York  Jewish Film Festival, which returns to  Lincoln Center 
for two weeks starting tomorrow.  “ Koch ” is about the plus-size personality, now 88, who
served as the city’s mayor from 1978 to 1989. “ Joe Papp in Five
Acts ” is a portrait of the late impresario and founder of the
 Public Theater .  There’s a lot about Papp’s left-wing politics and his
support of the counterculture. Among the vast catalogue of shows
the Public presented reflecting the turmoil of their times were
“Hair,” “The Normal Heart” and the plays of Vaclav Havel. There
are interviews with, among others, Olympia Dukakis, Larry Kramer
and  Meryl Streep .  “ The Art of Spiegelman ” addresses the life and work of
Art Spiegelman, the underground-comics hero who’s still best
known as the creator of “Maus.”  The festival, the 22nd, opens with the sparkling “ AKA Doc
Pomus ,” a remembrance of the irresistible Brooklyn-born
character who wrote “This Magic Moment,” “Why Must I Be a
Teenager in Love?” and a string of hits for  Elvis Presley ,
among them “Viva  Las Vegas .”  Ben E. King, Dion and Doc’s biographer, Alex Halberstadt,
tell a series of great stories about him. A childhood polio
victim, Doc needed crutches to walk. It was at his wedding
reception, as he handed off his bride to one dance partner after
another, that he conceived “Save the Last Dance for Me.”  Martha Graham  Two more terrific documentaries help anchor the festival.
The explosively exciting “Let’s Dance!” runs 52 minutes but
contains enough material for a 10-episode miniseries.  Modern dance has been one of  Israel ’s best exports. Israeli
choreographers talk about the roots of their art in folk dance;
about the rebirth in Israel of the European avant-garde that the
Nazis had stamped out; and about  Martha Graham ’s outsize
influence on the Batsheva Dance Company.  The dances are shown only in snippets. But the end result,
thanks in large part to superb editing, isn’t a frustrated
audience but one that’s hungry for more.  “The Trial of Adolf Eichmann” has less to offer in terms
of accomplished filmmaking; its bland-sounding narration recalls
old TV documentaries. But the interviews and the archival
footage it gathers are electrifying. Eichmann sits there as
impassively as a man talking to his accountant, never giving any
hint that he recognizes the enormity of his crimes.  Bearing Witness  The captured Nazi war criminal’s eight-month trial -- held
in  Jerusalem  in 1961 and preserved on videotape -- marked the
first time that Holocaust survivors were able to tell their
story on a world stage.  The film includes a courtroom shot of the political
philosopher Hannah Arendt, reporting what became “Eichmann in
Jerusalem” for the  New Yorker  -- perhaps the best-known
document the trial produced.  So Margarethe von Trotta’s “ Hannah Arendt ” makes a
fitting closing-night film. It covers four years in the writer’s
life, centering on the Eichmann period and the backlash against
her theory of “the banality of evil.”  “Hannah Arendt” wasn’t screened in advance, but it looks
more promising than the fiction films that were. The Argentinean
comedy “All In” is about a truth-challenged, post-vasectomy
financier who tries to restart an old romance. Its most original
feature is an Orthodox Jewish headbanger band.  Israeli Drama  The Israeli drama “ The Fifth Heaven ,” set in 1944 in an
orphanage for girls, tells a story of loss, deprivation,
heartbreak and regret. See it when you’re in the mood for grim.  Music is at the core of several other selections. “Hava
Nagila (The Movie)” delves into the origins and influence of
the Jewish-wedding perennial that’s been covered by (it
sometimes seems) everybody. Among the talking heads (not all of
them Jewish) are Harry Belafonte, Connie Francis and Glen
Campbell.  “Cabaret Berlin -- The Wild Scene” explores, in the form
of a cabaret show, the famously decadent musical nightlife of
the  Weimar Republic . On a related theme, “Max Raabe in Israel”
shows what happened when the Berlin singer and his Palast
Orchester took their classic-Berlin-cabaret act on tour in 2010.  The distinguished critic J. Hoberman presents the 1934
horror classic “ The Black Cat ,” starring Bela Lugosi and Boris
Karloff. It was directed by the Czech-born Edgar G. Ulmer, who
went on to make several films in Yiddish and, most famously, the
scuzzy 1945 noir “Detour.” With the aid of other clips,
Hoberman will talk about the Jewish connection to the horror
genre.  The New York Jewish Film Festival, presented by the Film
Society of Lincoln Center and the Jewish Museum, takes over
Lincoln Center’s Walter Reade Theater from Jan. 9 through Jan.
24. Information: +1-212-875-5601;
 http://www.filmlinc.com/films/series/new-york-jewish-film-
festival-2013 .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on architecture
and  Richard Vines  on food.  To contact the writer of this column:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 