-- Nokia Declines After Indian Tax Officials Raid Facility
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-01-08T16:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/nokia-declines-after-indian-tax-officials-raid-facility.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish mobile-phone
maker struggling to reverse falling sales, declined as much as 7
percent after Indian tax officials raided its local
manufacturing facility.  The shares lost 6.4 percent to 3.07 euros at 6:11 p.m. in
Helsinki trading. While the stock has had five consecutive
annual declines, it has tripled since a July low.  Nokia today confirmed a report that tax officials visited
its manufacturing unit in Chennai in southern India. Local
authorities said Nokia is suspected of tax evasion worth the
equivalent of $545 million, the Economic Times reported. James Etheridge, a Nokia spokesman, declined to comment on details
such as financials.  In its statement, Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said it always
observes applicable laws and rulings in the countries where it
operates. The company said it has been present in  India  since
1995 and is fully cooperating with Indian tax authorities.  Nokia, having lost market share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) , has sold units and assets including its
headquarters to boost its cash position. Its cash reserves have
shrunk by about half in the past five years, with its net cash
dropping to 3.6 billion euros ($4.7 billion) in the third
quarter from 4.2 billion euros at the end of June.  The phonemaker isn’t alone in facing tax issues in India.
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is in limbo over a potential $2.2 billion tax
payment for the acquisition of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s business
in 2007 after the Indian government passed laws that would allow
retroactive tax charges.  A tax panel set up by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in July
opposed the retroactive clause, apparently siding with Vodafone.
Still, the Indian government sent Vodafone a reminder about the
fees without a deadline for payment. The move prompted Vodafone
to say in a Jan. 6 statement that it doesn’t believe it owes
anything.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  