-- Norden Returning to Profit After Wager on Extended Rout
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-01-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/norden-returning-to-profit-after-wager-on-extended-rout-freight.html
D/S  Norden (DNORD)  AS,  Europe ’s biggest
commodity-shipping company, is betting that transport rates will
continue to slump this year, a wager that will help it return to
profit after posting the first annual loss since 1998.  Shares of Norden, which rose 25 percent in the past year,
will gain another 7.7 percent in the next 12 months, according
to the median estimate of the five most-accurate analysts
tracked by Bloomberg. The Hellerup, Denmark-based company booked
20 percent more cargo for 2013 than its 61 Panamaxes can carry,
profiting if it can charter extra ships at costs below those
agreed to with clients. Rates tumbled 29 percent last month.  Vessel owners are contending with a glut that drove rates
94 percent below their peak in 2007 after they built too many
ships.  China , the biggest coal buyer, will import 2.1 percent
more fuel this year, the slowest expansion since 2008, Barclays
Plc estimates. Weaker demand growth is coming as IHS Inc.
estimates that orders at ship yards are still equal to 28
percent of existing capacity, a sign the glut may worsen.  “Panamax is the segment with the largest order book, and
supply is still growing faster than demand,” said Finn Bjarke Petersen, an analyst at  Nordea Markets  in Copenhagen whose
recommendations on the shares of shipping companies returned 27
percent in the past year. “Norden is positioned to do better
because of their coverage, so they will be able to generate  cash
flow  and pay out  dividends  even in a very weak market.”  Break Even  Daily earnings for Panamaxes averaged $7,684 in 2012, the
lowest since at least 1999, according to the  Baltic Exchange ,
the London-based publisher of freight costs on 61 maritime
routes. Rates will average $9,500 this year, according to the
median of nine analyst predictions compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
still less than the $11,000 that Pareto Securities AS estimates
the 700-foot ships need to break even.  Rates are volatile, moving 23 percent or more every month
last year. Norden will report  net income  of $23 million in 2013,
from a loss of $284.1 million in 2012, the mean of 10 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows. The company lost $20.3
million in 1998, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Norden will 
earn an average of $13,835 a day from its Panamax contracts in
2013, according to a Nov. 14 company presentation. That means the
company can profit if it can hire ships for less, according to RS
Platou Markets AS.  “Our positioning in Panamaxes is reflective of the fact
that we think the market in 2013 will still be quite weak,”
said Martin Badsted, an executive vice president at Norden in
Hellerup. “That’s not only on the demand side, but also because
of the new-buildings still coming onto the water.”  Larger Vessels  Coal is the largest cargo for Panamaxes in the  spot market ,
accounting for 78 percent of bookings in the past year, Morgan
Stanley estimates. China takes 17 percent of seaborne cargoes,
according to Clarkson Plc, the biggest shipbroker. Panamaxes are
mainly used to supply the nation because ports in  Indonesia , the
biggest exporter, can’t accommodate larger vessels, said Steve Rodley, a managing partner at Global Maritime Investments Group,
which operates 61 ships and trades freight derivatives.  China more than doubled capacity since 2005 on the Daqin
railroad linking  Inner Mongolia  and Shanxi, its two-biggest coal
producing regions, to industrial areas on the coast, curbing its
need for imports, according to London-based Barclays. The
Shenshuo railway from Shanxi will add 200 million metric tons of
annual capacity by 2014, the bank estimates. That’s the
equivalent of about 2,500 Panamax cargoes.  Fuel Costs  Ship owners may respond to the weaker demand growth by
demolishing older vessels. A record 8.5 million tons of Panamax
capacity was scrapped in 2012, and another 5.9 million tons will
go this year, London-based Clarkson estimates. Companies may
also cut speeds to reduce fuel costs, their biggest expense, and
curb capacity. The average carrier sailed at 8.6 knots in 2012,
compared with 11.1 in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chinese demand for raw materials may exceed analysts’
expectations as it rebounds from seven consecutive quarters of
slowing economic growth. The world’s second-largest economy will
accelerate for at least the next six months, expanding at about
four times the pace of the U.S., according to the median of as
many as 79 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Slower growth in Chinese coal imports may be offset by
strengthening demand elsewhere, with Clarkson forecasting a
combined 10 percent expansion in cargoes to  India  and  Japan , the
second- and third-largest buyers. Japan is seeking to compensate
for nuclear capacity shut down after 2011’s temblor and tsunami,
and India’s government is encouraging more imports to increase
power generation and ease blackouts, according to Barclays.  Seaborne Trade  The Panamax fleet’s capacity will expand 13 percent to a
record 200.5 million deadweight tons this year, exceeding gains
in all other classes of commodity carrier, according to London-
based Clarkson. That compares with the 5 percent growth the
shipbroker anticipates for global seaborne trade in coal. The
fuel is the third-largest raw material carried by ships after
crude oil and iron ore.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  expects a 15 percent
contraction in global grain cargoes in the 2012-13 crop year
after drought and heat waves parched fields from  Australia  to
Europe to the Great Plains. That would be the steepest drop in
27 years. The merchant fleet hauls about 90 percent of world
trade, according to the Round Table of International Shipping
Associations.  The glut in Panamaxes extends across the fleet. The Baltic
Dry Index, a measure of rates for four classes of dry-bulk
commodity carriers, slumped 60 percent last year. The Baltic
Dirty Tanker Index of oil-shipping rates retreated 18 percent
and a measure of charges for six types of containers declined 14
percent, according to the Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association.  Panamax Operators  Norden has not been able to completely avoid the slump and
took a $300 million writedown in May to reflect the declining
value of its fleet, which also includes other types of commodity
carriers and tankers. Its shares, which closed yesterday at
171.80 kroner, will reach 185 kroner in 12 months, based on the
mean of estimates from five analysts whose recommendations on
the stock returned 25 percent in the past year.  Other Panamax operators are expected to be unprofitable
this year.  China COSCO Holdings Co. (1919) , based in Tianjin, China,
will report a loss of $76.8 million, according to the mean of
seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Excel Maritime
Carriers Ltd. (EXM) , based in  Athens , will lose $153.5 million,
according to the average of four predictions.  “Coal demand will impact Panamaxes more than any other
sector,” said Rodley of Global Maritime Investments. “There’s
too much supply, and then when you have less coal and poor grain
crops, it just further accelerates the downward spiral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  