-- Notz Stucki Shuns ‘Zoo’ of Hedge Funds as AUM Decline
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-01-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/notz-stucki-shuns-zoo-of-hedge-funds-as-client-assets-decline.html
Notz Stucki & Cie SA, a Geneva-based
 money manager  facing shrinking assets four years after reporting
losses to  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme, is bidding to shake off
its reputation as a specialist hedge fund investor.  The firm is focusing mainly on so-called long-only
strategies, which perform well when markets are rising, said
Christian Stucki, who founded the company with Beat Notz in 1964
as a fund of hedge funds. Notz Stucki has cut allocations to
alternative strategies, including hedge funds, to 40 percent of
assets under management from about 70 percent in 2008, it said.  “Some time ago we were Notz Stucki, the famous hedge fund
investors: that’s finished,” Stucki told clients at a
conference in its Geneva offices yesterday. “Any kind of Tom,
Dick and Harry idea was put into hedge” funds and the industry
degenerated into a “zoo of animals,” he said.  While Notz Stucki hopes to grow through acquisitions and by
luring clients in the Middle East and  Asia , assets fell to $6
billion, a company official said yesterday, from the $7 billion
reported a year earlier. Notz Stucki was among at least seven
Geneva-based firms that suffered $7 billion of losses from
Madoff’s fraud, which undermined the fund of  hedge funds  model
pioneered by the city’s banks in the 1960s.  Managers of the funds charge clients fees for investing in
outside hedge funds as opposed to directly in the markets. Hedge
funds are largely unregulated pools of capital that can bet on
falling as well as rising asset prices.  Fund Returns  The industry, which oversees $2.1 trillion, returned an
annual average of 13 percent from 1993 through 2007, according
to Hedge Fund Research Inc., compared with an 8.9 percent return
for the Vanguard Balanced Index Fund, which tracks a balanced
mix of stocks and bonds. That performance encouraged wealthy
individuals and pension funds to pay fees to funds of hedge
funds for help in choosing managers who outperformed stock and
bond markets.  Since 2008, hedge funds have underperformed, returning an
average 0.9 percent annually compared with 3.8 percent for the
Vanguard Balanced Index Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  