-- Novartis to Focus on Mid-Sized Deals, CEO Jimenez Says
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-01-08T16:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/novartis-to-focus-on-mid-sized-deals-ceo-jimenez-says.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  will limit deals to $4
billion this year and won’t sell assets such as its money-losing
vaccines unit, Chief Executive Officer  Joe Jimenez  said.  “I don’t think we need a big acquisition in the short
term,” Jimenez said in an interview at the JPMorgan Chase & Co.
health conference in San Francisco. “You may see us do more
bolt-ons,” that would range “between $2 billion and $4
billion, not more than that.”  The Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker wants to grow its
generics business by adding respiratory and dermatology products
as well as injectable cancer therapies, Jimenez said. The Swiss
drugmaker may do more transactions similar to last year’s $1.5
billion  acquisition  of closely held Fougera Pharmaceuticals,
which allowed it to gain generic skin medications.  Novartis,  Europe ’s second-biggest pharmaceutical company,
is on the prowl for assets that will help it fill revenue holes
left by expired patents. Jimenez is facing declining sales of
Diovan, a medicine for  blood pressure  that lost patent
protection in the U.S. last year. The company’s cancer treatment
Gleevec will start losing patent protection in the U.S. in 2015
and in Europe in 2016.  New Products  Novartis is introducing new products, such as the Afinitor
cancer treatment, to help sustain sales. In November, it won the
backing of the European Union’s drug regulator for its Bexsero
meningitis shot, which Jimenez said will help build up the
company’s vaccine division, obtained through the $7.5 billion
acquisition of Chiron Corp. in 2006.  Novartis rose 0.6 percent to 59.55 Swiss francs in Swiss
trading. The stock has  gained  8.9 percent in the past year.  Jimenez said he had no plans to sell the  smaller units ,
including vaccines,  animal health , and consumer health.  The three businesses “still play an important role” in
Novartis’s portfolio, he said. Vaccines are important because
“prevention is going to be a growth area.”  The Chiron deal also gave Novartis a set of blood tests for
viruses including HIV and hepatitis. That business “may not be
as strategic as some of our other businesses” even though
“it’s a good cash generator,” Jimenez said.  Novartis recorded a $291 million operating loss at its
vaccines division in the first nine months of 2012, according to
an Oct. 25 statement available on the company’s website. The
vaccines business may still not break even in 2013, even as
Bexsero is introduced in Europe, Peter Verdult, an analyst at
Morgan Stanley based in  London  wrote in a Dec. 7 report to
clients.  The Swiss company still has about $15 billion of debt
following the purchase of the Alcon eye-care division.  “Keeping dividends strong” will be “a number one
priority,” Jimenez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in  San Francisco  through 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in San Francisco at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in San Francisco through 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  