-- Nowotny Wins 2nd Term as Austrian Central Bank Governor
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-01-08T11:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/nowotny-wins-2nd-term-as-austrian-central-bank-governor.html
Ewald Nowotny, who has led  Austria ’s
central bank since the financial crisis erupted in 2008, was
appointed for a new six-year term.  Nowotny, 68, has promised to serve the full term if his
health allows, Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter told
journalists in Vienna on her way into the government meeting
that confirmed the appointment for the four-member board. As
governor, he will be the third-oldest member of the European
Central Bank’s rate-setting Governing Council, after Slovenian
Governor Marko Kranjec and ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio .
Nowotny’s term starts Sept. 1.  “I am very happy with the competency of the individuals
concerned,” Fekter said of the central bank appointments. “We
have a good mix of people that have economic knowledge, that
have supervision knowledge, and who have years of experience”
in the bank and in international bodies, she said.  Nowotny, who succeeded Klaus Liebscher at the head of the
Austrian central bank in September 2008, just days before Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, was in parliament for
Austria’s center-left Social Democrats and has an academic track
record entrenched in Keynesian economics. He has taught in
Harvard, Darmstadt and Vienna and -- as its chief executive
officer -- helped rescue the Austrian trade union’s ailing Bawag
bank in 2006. Since taking on his role as governor, he has
backed  Germany ’s pressure for fiscal austerity, while betraying
traces of Keynesianism only in advocacy for more lenient
monetary policy.  He has been one of the most talkative policy makers during
the crisis, earning him monikers including Handelsblatt’s “The
Omnipresent” and criticism from some of his peers.  The government also reappointed  Andreas Ittner , the central
bank director now responsible for banking supervision, for a
six-year term. It named Peter Mooslechner, currently the head of
the central bank’s economics department, and  Kurt Pribil , co-
president of the Finanzmarktaufsicht watchdog, as new directors.
They replace Peter Zoellner, who was named new head of the Bank
for International Settlement’s banking department yesterday, and
Wolfgang Duchatczek.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  