-- NYC Midtown South Office-Vacancy Rate Rises as Rents Jump
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-01-08T20:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/nyc-midtown-south-office-vacancy-rate-rises-as-rents-jump.html
The  office-vacancy  rate in  New York ’s
midtown south climbed for a fourth straight quarter as rents
rose faster than some of the area’s technology and media tenants
could pay,  Cushman & Wakefield  reported.  The rate reached 7.1 percent at the end of 2012, up from a
low point of 5.9 percent in the first quarter, the New York-
based real estate services firm said today in a statement. The
increase indicates the market is softening in an area that has
the lowest vacancy rate in the U.S.  “It’s still the tightest market in the country, but I
think that the bloom is off the rose,” Kenneth McCarthy, chief
economist for Cushman, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
still the preferred location, but cost really does have an
impact on space decisions.”  Office demand by so-called creative firms in midtown south,
the area roughly between 30th and Canal streets, has bolstered
the broader  Manhattan  market as more traditional tenants,
chiefly financial firms, cut back amid concerns about possible
tax increases and stricter regulation. That uncertainty is
likely to continue this year, leading to slow growth, McCarthy
said.  Manhattan’s fourth-quarter vacancy rate was 9.4 percent,
down from 9.6 percent in the third quarter and up from 9.1
percent a year earlier. Average asking rents rose to $59.54 a
square foot, up from $58.83 in the previous three months and
$57.23 a year earlier.  Priced Out  In midtown south, landlords  sought  an average of $49.69 a
square foot in the fourth quarter, an 8.3 percent jump from a
year earlier, according to Cushman. The average was $49.12 in
the previous three months.  “Given the explosion in asking rents, tenants have started
looking for value beyond the traditional boundaries of midtown
south,” Andrew Sachs, an  executive director  at Cushman, said in
the statement.  Many media and technology firms priced out of midtown south
are going  downtown , where rents are lower and available space in
older buildings is more abundant, McCarthy said. Office
availability in lower Manhattan is rising as new towers at the
World Trade Center near completion, and  Brookfield Office
Properties Inc. (BPO) ’s World Financial Center leases to Bank of
America approach expiration.  Nielsen Move  One example McCarthy cited was  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) , the
media-research firm best known for its television ratings, which
in October agreed to move its New York offices from the East
Village to 85 Broad St., the former Goldman Sachs headquarters
in the financial district.  Nielsen on Dec. 31 vacated 157,000 square feet at 770
Broadway, which is owned by  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , and plans to
leave its remaining 82,000 square feet in April, according to
data from  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) , a Washington-based research firm.
Nielsen is taking 116,000 square feet at 85 Broad St., which is
owned by  MetLife Inc. (MET)   Kristie Bouryal, a Nielsen spokeswoman in New York, didn’t
return a voice mail seeking comment on the move.  Asking rents downtown declined to $39.58 a square foot in
the fourth quarter from $39.88 a year earlier.  In Midtown, the largest and most expensive U.S. office
market, the fourth-quarter vacancy rate was 10.3 percent, up
from 9.6 percent a year earlier. Rents climbed to $67.36 a
square foot from $65.42.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  