-- The NYSE’s Long History of Mergers and Rivalries
-- B y   R o b e r t   E .   W r i g h t
-- 2013-01-08T20:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/nyse-s-long-history-of-mergers-and-rivalries.html
The recent announcement that Wall
Street’s most iconic institution, the New York Stock Exchange,
would be acquired by Atlanta-based  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
seemed weighted with symbolism.  For one thing, it represented another marker in the decline
of  New York City  as the center of global finance. It also
suggested that the world of trading and exchanges was entering a
uniquely modern age of technology-driven consolidation. You may
recall, for example, the mergers that the NYSE conducted with
Archipelago Holdings Inc. (2006), Euronext NV (2007) and the
 American Stock Exchange  (2008).  Since the NYSE (then called the Stock and Exchange Board)
first merged with another exchange shortly after the Civil War,
its history has always been characterized by competition and
consolidation. It suggests that financial exchanges respond to
evolving economic conditions like any other industry, and that
bigger often isn’t better.  Early Competition  The first local rival of the NYSE, the New Board, was
formed in 1835 in response to an economic boom and the formation
of the first railroad corporations. The NYSE, which
traditionally ran only one call session a day, quickly responded
to the new competition by adding a second daily opportunity to
buy or sell securities. After the New Board’s brokers were
crushed by the Panic of 1837 and the subsequent recession, the
exchange faded until finally folding in 1848. (“Curb” or
“outside” trading -- in which brokers and dealers traded
directly with each other in the street near the exchange --
maintained a modest foothold not relinquished until the NYSE co-
opted curb brokers in the early 20th century.)  In 1864, the Open Board of Stock Brokers was established to
profit from the economic and investment boom sparked by the
Civil War. The Open Board soon rivaled the NYSE in membership
(354 to the NYSE’s 533) because it used a more modern,
continuous trading system superior to the NYSE’s twice-daily
call sessions.  The two exchanges merged in 1869. In addition to increasing
the number of NYSE members, this merger increased trading volume
in an era when several dozen regional exchanges were also
competing with the NYSE for customers. Buyers, sellers and
dealers all wanted to complete transactions as quickly and
cheaply as technologically possible and that meant finding the
markets with the most trading, or the greatest liquidity in
today’s parlance.  Minimizing competition was essential to keep a large number
of orders flowing, and the merger helped the NYSE to maintain
its reputation for providing superior liquidity. As L.W.
Hamilton & Co., a  New York  broker,  put it in 1875 : “The Stock
Exchange, with its enormous daily transactions, affords to
institutions and private investors a regular market for buying
and selling securities. It gives at all times to their bonds and
stocks a definite price, at which they can be turned into money
at a moment’s notice.”  The crucial importance of  volume  to maintaining the
viability of exchanges also explains the long rivalry between
the NYSE and the Consolidated Stock and Petroleum Exchange.  ‘Intense Rivalry’  Established by merger in 1885 and dubbed “the Little
Board,” the Consolidated Exchange averaged less than a quarter
of the NYSE’s volume over its almost 40-year existence. After an
agreement broke down between the NYSE and one of the
Consolidated Exchange’s antecedent companies to trade only newer
and more speculative petroleum and mining stocks -- and not the
NYSE’s bread-and-butter railroad securities -- competition
between the two exchanges forced bid-ask spreads to narrow by
more than 10 percent. In the words of the New York Times on Dec.
31, 1905, “ever since there has been an intense rivalry between
the two institutions.”  That rivalry peaked in 1909 when the NYSE tried to remove
its tickers from the Consolidated Exchange, which relied on the
Big Board for price discovery. Thwarted by the courts, the NYSE
vowed to drive the Consolidated Exchange out of business. It
eventually succeeded by vigorously enforcing a resolution
designed, in the words of NYSE President James B. Mabon, “to
prevent a man who is a member of another exchange from doing any
business at all, and to drive him out of business.”  Although the Consolidated Exchange continued to “prosper
after a fashion” (as the New York Times put it) and enjoyed a
banner year in 1922, the quality of its member brokerages
deteriorated. In 1926, its “somewhat checkered” career ended due
to a series of scandalous brokerage failures that implicated its
president, William S. Silkworth.  The crucial importance of volume to exchanges has led some
finance scholars to suggest that only regulators stand between
investors and a single global superexchange. Rumors that  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  will now move to acquire  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , for
instance, bolster such fears. But business historians know
better. Rather than exhibiting a trend of constant
consolidation, the number of exchanges active across the globe
has waxed and waned several times over the past 200 years.  During periods of heightened regulation, political turmoil
or communication advances, exchanges tend to fail or merge.
Economic prosperity, increased financial speculation and high
levels of market uncertainty, by contrast, drive new entries.
Investors don’t always need more liquidity -- they need
sufficient liquidity provided at the lowest possible cost. Size
can drive down costs but, as the NYSE learned in 1869 and during
the Internet revolution, so can innovative approaches to
trading.  In short, exchanges, like other industries, must achieve
minimum efficient scale to remain viable, but bigger isn’t
better if size impedes innovation. So look for continued
consolidation in the exchange business. But also look for signs
of one merger too far.  (Robert E. Wright is the Nef Family Chair of Political
Economy at Augustana College in  South Dakota  and the author of
numerous books, including, with David Cowen, “Financial Founding
Fathers: The Men Who Made America Rich.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Robert E. Wright at
 robert.wright@augie.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  