-- Hoarding Jams Hens in Couple’s Fecal Swamp: Mike Di Paola
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2013-01-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/hoarding-jams-hens-in-couple-s-fecal-swamp-mike-di-paola.html
At the  Woodstock Farm Animal
Sanctuary  in upstate  New York , a rooster’s eyes were closed by
infection while another was missing tail feathers. Yet both
looked healthy and strutted around the coop.  Sheila Hyslop, the farm’s shelter manager, said the one who
is now just short a few feathers “was bald when he came here.”  The birds are recent evacuees from an animal-hoarding case
in nearby Wawarsing, New York. The sanctuary rescued more than
130 chickens, geese and turkeys that had been sharing a trailer
with a married couple.  Some adult ducks involved in the rescue were featured in a
popular Internet video that showed them having their first-ever
encounter with water.  Hoarders are generally people who collect more animals than
they can care for. They tend to deny or have no awareness that
the care is inadequate. For animals kept in close quarters and
squalor, sanitation is usually the first casualty, creating
health risks.  “We pulled 25 birds out of the inside of the trailer,”
said  Jenny Brown , co-founder of the Woodstock sanctuary,
describing the Wawarsing rescue. “The floor was a slippery
fecal stew.”  The animals living outside the trailer fared little better.
“Many of the birds were missing toes, roosters were missing
their combs, that sort of thing, from exposure,” Brown said.  TV ‘Confession’  No one knows how widespread hoarding is. A recent study by
the  Fund for  Public Health  in New York Inc. found that there are
about 100 hoarding cases reported in the city each year, and as
many as 7,000 nationwide. The phenomenon has been chronicled by
the  Animal Planet  series “Confessions: Animal Hoarding.”  “It’s a mental illness,” Brown said.  “Hoarders are
seriously blind to the fact that animals are suffering in their
care.”  Not all of the animals at the 23-acre Woodstock farm are
hoarding survivors. Four gigantic steer browsed languidly in a
spacious paddock, a far cry from the veal crates they were
destined for.  Part of the sanctuary’s mission is to educate the public on
the consequences of eating meat. Staff members at Woodstock are
all vegan -- at least when they’re on duty -- and signs at the
sanctuary remind visitors of the cost of an unconscientious
diet. One reveals that “98% of eggs come from chickens living
their entire lives in cages.”  Creamer Crime  Brown wasn’t shy about educating me, only a partial
vegetarian, on the subject.  “So you say you’re against veal? Well the creamer in your
coffee is contributing to that,” Brown pointed out. “There
wouldn’t be veal calves without the  dairy industry .”  A lot of vegans can sound a tad sanctimonious, but Brown
has a disarming sense of humor to mitigate any preachiness.  “Dairy cows don’t magically shoot milk from their
breasts,” she added. “They’re mammals, like us.”  I took a brief tour of the farm and visited some of the
other mammals on site. It was a rainy day and several goats kept
warm and dry in a large barn powered by a sizable solar array
and adorned with Tibetan prayer flags.  One of the goats, Albie, is a minor celebrity. He was
rescued in 2007 in Prospect Park in  Brooklyn . He was emaciated
and wounded, and an apparent escapee from a live-kill market.  Showing Leg  Albie lost a leg to infection, an event with particular
poignancy for Brown, who lost a leg to bone cancer when she was
10. She prefers not to draw attention to her missing limb, but
admits that a New York Times article in 2008 -- which included a
photo of Brown and Albie -- was good publicity for the sanctuary
and for her.  “When that story came out, four literary agents contacted
me within a week,” said Brown, who parlayed the interest into a
book:  “The Lucky Ones : My Passionate Fight for Farm Animals,”
published by Penguin subsidiary Avery last August.  The attention was the inspiration for a joke Brown trots
out: “I never knew that in order to be successful in our work I
just needed to show a little leg.”  The spacious farm and its well-tended tenants are pretty
much the opposite of hoarding environments. You can help out
with a donation or by adopting an animal via the  website .  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on art,  Richard
Vines  on dining.  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 