-- Obama to Romney: Send Me Your Binders Full of Women
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-01-08T22:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/obama-to-romney-send-me-your-binders-full-of-women.html
President  Barack Obama  suffers from Groucho Marx syndrome: He favors those in
the club he doesn’t belong to. Otherwise how to explain why he is fighting for
Chuck Hagel to be secretary of defense but didn't for Susan Rice to be secretary
of state? At the rate he is going, Obama is going to have a Cabinet that looks more
like the Augusta National Golf Club than America. The four top Cabinet posts
will probably go to white men: John Kerry at State; Jack Lew at Treasury; Hagel;
and the replacement for Attorney General Eric Holder at Justice -- the short
list of which consists of, you guessed it, men. Obama to  Mitt Romney : Could you please send me your binders full of
women? Actually Obama doesn’t need help.  Washington  is bursting with qualified
women. Hagel is  a fine choice , but there’s never only one. In plain sight was
Michele Flournoy, the undersecretary of defense for policy until about a year
ago. In the financial sector, there’s the economist Janet Yellen, vice chairman
of the Federal Reserve; Lael Brainard, undersecretary of Treasury for
international affairs; and stars from the private sector such as PepsiCo Chief
Executive Officer Indra Nooyi and Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl
Sandberg. As for lawyers, there are outstanding lawyers on practically every
corner in Washington. Obama does have a chance to get a woman in a Top Four slot when Holder hands
in his expected resignation. The Great Mentioner mostly lists (highly qualified)
men to replace him: Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island,  Massachusetts 
Governor Deval Patrick, U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride of  Virginia , Deputy Attorney
General James Cole. What about state attorneys general such as Martha Coakley of
Massachusetts or Lisa Madigan of  Illinois ? Just because they weren’t good
gubernatorial candidates doesn’t mean they don't have fine records. Senators Amy
Klobuchar of  Minnesota  and Claire McCaskill of  Missouri  have long legal
experience. Either would be a great loss to the Senate -- but you can do so much
more from atop the Justice Department. This is not to say that Patrick or Lew, who’s managed the often unmanageable
White House well, shouldn’t be elevated. Obama’s problem is that he doesn’t look
beyond his nose. Hagel was already on his foreign policy advisory board. Kerry
hung out with him during debate prep. Obama may be resting on his laurels. His first-term appointments were among
the most diverse in history. He can’t help that many of his stalwarts are gone
or going: Christina Romer of the Council of Economic Advisers; Carol Browner of
the Office of Energy and Climate Change Policy; Lisa Jackson of the
Environmental Protection Agency; and of course Hillary Clinton. Maybe the lack of women on short lists is actually a good thing: After all,
those names are often orchestrated by ambitious aides. And now that women see
who Obama fights for and doesn’t,  not  being on the list may be
advisable. No woman wants to be Riced. (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  her on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .