-- Obama Weighs Leaving No Troops in Afghanistan After 2014
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-01-08T20:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/obama-weighs-leaving-no-troops-in-afghanistan-after-2014.html
President  Barack Obama  is considering
leaving no U.S. troops in Afghanistan after 2014, White House
officials said today, emphasizing Obama’s range of options as
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  arrives in Washington for talks.  “I’d say that would be an option we would consider,”  Ben Rhodes , the deputy national security adviser, told reporters on
a conference call when asked if the Obama administration is
considering withdrawing all troops after 2014. Obama “does not
view these negotiations as having the goal of keeping U.S.
troops in Afghanistan,” he said.  The possibility of a complete pullout after 2014 signaled
that the administration is ready for what Doug Lute, Obama’s
deputy assistant for South Asia, today called “very candid”
discussions with Karzai during his visit this week. While Obama
has pledged to withdraw most U.S. forces from the country by the
end of 2014, Pentagon officials have talked of keeping a
residual force for training and anti-terrorist operations.  The U.S. and  Afghanistan  are attempting to negotiate a
“status of forces agreement” for after 2014, with the U.S.
insisting that any troops remaining be given immunity from local
prosecution. Failure to reach such an accord led to the removal
of U.S. troops from Iraq at the end of 2011.  Karzai is seeking assurances of continued aid and weaponry
from the U.S. and allies as well as guarantees that they will
turn over to Afghanistan all prisoners taken in the country.  The U.S. goal is to defeat al-Qaeda and its affiliates as
well as train and equip Afghan forces, Rhodes said. “It’s not
an objective in and of itself to have a certain number of
troops,” he said.  Karzai was due to arrive in Washington today on a four-day
visit. He’s scheduled to meet with Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta  and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  on Jan. 10 and
with Obama at the White House on Jan. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  