-- Brent Crude Halts Two-Day Rise on U.S. Inventories Gain
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-09T13:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/oil-fluctuates-on-signs-u-s-crude-fuel-stockpiles-increasing.html
Oil switched between gains and losses
in  London  amid signs of rising inventories in the U.S., the
world’s biggest crude-consuming nation.  Brent futures were little changed after adding 0.5 percent
yesterday. U.S. crude supplies increased 2.4 million barrels
last week, according to the  American Petroleum Institute . An
Energy Department report today may show inventories rose  2
million barrels , a Bloomberg News survey of 11 analysts showed.
Gasoline and distillate stockpiles also climbed, the API said.  “Inventories will likely rise in the spring,” said Andy Sommer, a senior oil analyst at Axpo Trading AG in Dietikon,
 Switzerland , who predicts Brent will remain at about $110 this
month. “Supply and demand in the market are pretty much
balanced, with a slight deficit, but that is a normal seasonal
pattern. We see downside risk once we come into the spring.”  Brent for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange increased 13 cents to $112.07 a barrel
as of 1:06 p.m. local time. The North Sea crude was at a premium
of $18.86 to U.S. benchmark, West Texas Intermediate. The spread
widened for the first time in four days yesterday to $18.79.  WTI crude for February delivery was at $93.23 a barrel, up
8 cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract settled at $93.19 on Jan. 7, the highest
since Sept. 18. Prices dropped 7.1 percent last year for the
first decline in four years.  RSI Resistance  Oil may fall in  New York  after failing to settle above
technical resistance along its 50-week moving average yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Sell orders tend to be
clustered near resistance levels. On the daily chart, the 14-day
relative strength index remains close to 70, a level that would
indicate further price gains aren’t sustainable.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles rose 7.9 million barrels in the
week ended Jan. 4, the API report showed. Supplies are projected
to climb 2.5 million barrels in the Energy Department report,
according to the median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Distillate inventories, including heating oil and
diesel, increased 5.9 million barrels, compared with a forecast
1.9 million-barrel gain in the survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  ‘See Wobbles’  “We’ve got inventory numbers tonight and with a forecast
increase that keeps stockpiles at very elevated levels,” said
 Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets in
Sydney. “Overall, the markets remain firm. We do see wobbles
during the course of the day but it is quite clear that we have
a short- to medium-term uptrend in place and that’s consistent
with the global industrial growth expectations.”  The Energy Department raised its oil price  projections  for
2013 and forecast that global consumption will expand to a
record. WTI will average $89.54 a barrel, up 1.3 percent from
the December estimate of $88.38, it said yesterday in its
monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook. The U.S. benchmark averaged
$94.12 in 2012, less than the December estimate of $94.26.  U.S. gasoline demand fell last week to the lowest since
consumption was tracked in July 2004, said  MasterCard Inc. (MA) 
Drivers bought 7.82 million barrels a day of the fuel in the
week to Jan. 4, down 3.5 percent from 8.1 million in the prior
period, its SpendingPulse report showed yesterday.  Serious Cold  Gasoline at the pump in the U.S. will peak at a lower price
this year as production increases and demand declines, according
to AAA, the largest U.S. motoring organization. The fuel may
reach $3.60 to $3.80 a gallon in 2013, after rising as high as
$3.936 last year on April 4, Chief Executive Officer Robert Darbelnet said yesterday. The 2012 average price was a record
$3.60, data from the group show.  Gasoil advanced to the highest in five weeks, rising as
much as 0.6 percent to $950.50 a metric ton on the ICE exchange.  “Winter is still not showing its face in the U.S. but
starting in the middle of next week it is expected that some
serious cold will return to continental Europe,” said  Olivier Jakob , managing director at consultants Petromatrix GmbH in Zug,
Switzerland. “Distillate stocks are still relatively low and
cold is coming back to Europe at time when some refineries have
probably started to cut runs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  