-- Old Navy’s Sands to Head Gap’s North American Brand
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-01-08T21:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/old-navy-s-sands-to-head-gap-s-north-american-brand.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S. specialty
apparel retailer, named  Old Navy  executive vice president Tom Sands to replace Mark Breitbard as head of its namesake brand in
 North America .  Sands, 52, will become executive vice president of Gap
North America immediately, Edie Kissko, a spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview. Breitbard, who was named president of the
division last year, is joining Gymboree Corp. as its new chief
executive officer effective Jan. 14, the children’s apparel
company said in a statement today.  Gap’s sales have rebounded in the past year, driven by
strength at its namesake, Old Navy and Banana Republic brands in
North America, making the company’s talent more lucrative to
competitors. Gap, based in  San Francisco , confirmed that Evan
Price, a vice president of finance, will leave the company this
month, while Cynthia Ng Villaluz, a vice president of women’s
design, left in mid-December.  “Coming off a great year of business performance with Gap
brands, we know there are risks of the competition recruiting
our talent,” Kissko said. “Fortunately, we have a deep bench
of talent across the company and we’ll work to strengthen our
retention strategies.”  Gap’s stock rose 67 percent last year following a 16
percent slide in 2011. The shares added 2.6 percent to $32.01 at
the close in New York today.  Sands is “a seasoned leader with proven success and we
think his broad general management experience will make him an
asset in this role,” she said.  Sands will report to Steve Sunnucks, Gap’s global
president, Kissko said. She declined to discuss Price’s and Ng
Villaluz’s plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  