-- Hong Kong Proposal Makes Director Identification Harder
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-01-09T03:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/hong-kong-proposes-law-making-it-harder-to-identify-directors.html
Hong Kong  proposed amendments that
would make tracing the personal details of company directors in
the city more difficult, amid increased scrutiny of the wealth
held by Hong Kong and Chinese officials and their families.  The proposal would obscure the residential addresses and
full identification numbers of a company’s directors to the
public from the first quarter next year, according to a  document
submitted  to the Legislative Council. Individuals can also apply
to have these personal details blocked on historical filings.  “It’s counter to the principles of freedom of speech,
freedom of the media and transparency,”  David Webb , the founder
of corporate-governance website Webb-site.com, said of the
proposed limitation on the disclosure of ID numbers. “In terms
of exposing corruption, it does make it harder to identify
people when you don’t have an ID number that can be tracked
across different databases.”  The Hong Kong-based Apple Daily newspaper reported the
development yesterday. The article said reporters used company
registry documents to discover the link between Secretary for
Development  Paul Chan  and a company that subdivided an
apartment.  Calls made to the Legislative Council, the Financial
Services and the Treasury Bureau, and the Companies Registry
were not answered outside business hours yesterday.  The new limitations, put forward by the Financial Services
and the Treasury Bureau and the city’s Companies Registry, were
proposed in November as part of a  consultation document  for
subsidiary legislation to a new Companies Ordinance.  Media Scrutiny  The proposed amendment to the transparency of company
filings in Hong Kong comes amid growing media scrutiny of the
assets of  China ’s leaders. In a statement, the Hong Kong-based
Journalism Educators for Press Freedom group called for the
amendment to be withdrawn.  “From a single residential address, journalists can
discover leads that help them to uncover facts and untangle webs
of interconnections and show the bigger picture,” the group
said. “To cut off this channel of discovery is to seriously
stifle an important source of information for journalists.”  Bloomberg News  last year relied on Hong Kong and Chinese
identity card numbers contained in filings to chart the business
relationships and assets of the families of China’s incoming
president,  Xi Jinping , ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai and the
descendants of veteran revolutionaries, known as the Eight
Immortals, who ran China after the death of  Mao Zedong  in 1976.
The  New York  Times traced assets owned by the family of outgoing
Premier  Wen Jiabao , also with the help of Hong Kong records,
according to an October article.  All Hong Kong residents 11 years old and above are required
to register for an identity card,  according to  the city’s
immigration department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  