-- Mongolia Minerals Law Threatens Coal Project, Group Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-01-09T04:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/mongolia-group-says-draft-law-hurts-foreign-investment.html
Proposed changes to Mongolia’s mining
laws threaten the viability of the nation’s biggest coal project
at Tavan Tolgoi and will further deter foreign investment, the
 Business Council of Mongolia  said.  The legislation, which will give the state the right to a
free stake in many mineral projects, will take the country away
from the free-market principles practiced there since the early
1990s, Mongolia’s largest business group said in a four-page
letter sent to President Tsakhia Elbegdorj’s office on Jan. 7.
The letter, made public by e-mail yesterday, came after the
draft laws were published last month.  Overseas investment in Mongolia, which relies on minerals
for more than 90 percent of its exports, has cooled since a law
last year restricted state owned companies from controlling
strategic assets. Lawmakers have also unsuccessfully sought
twice in the past 18 months to renegotiate the development
accord for  Rio Tinto  Group’s Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine,
which will account for about 30 percent of the nation’s gross
domestic product once in full production, in a bid to take a
greater share for the state.  “The draft minerals law will hurt all investment in mining
in Mongolia, local as well as foreign,” Jim Dwyer, the
executive director of the business group, said in an e-mail.
“This would include the government’s huge Tavan Tolgoi coal
project and Mongolia’s largest publicly-owned mine, Energy
Resources.”  The proposed law specifies output targets and obliges mine
operators to follow them regardless of market demand, which
would affect prices and profits of projects, said Dale Choi, an
 Ulan Bator  based associate with Origo Partners MGL, a private
equity investment firm.  State Control  The effect will be to make mining projects aligned with the
interests of the state, said Choi, a committee member at the
group. In addition, the law would allow settlements as small as
a village to decide on whether to accept prospecting and
exploration on land near them or not, he said.  “Nobody expected that the law would be so tough on
mining,” Choi said. “There’s no way this is not correlated
with the presidential elections this year. The majority of the
population may favor this law, because it is not happy with
mining, especially in the rural areas. The country as a whole
benefits from mining, but locals feel they don’t directly
benefit.”  Rio Tinto  Investments by Rio Tinto and its  Turquoise Hill Resources
Ltd. (TRQ)  and  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ)  units helped fuel Mongolia’s
record economic expansion of 17 percent in 2011. That slowed
after Mongolia passed the Strategic Entities Foreign Investment
Law, which effectively blocked state-owned Aluminum Corp. of
 China  Ltd. from taking control of SouthGobi.  “It is unlikely that the exploitation of Tavan Tolgoi will
be an economically viable or commercially attractive if it will
be regulated by the Draft Law,” the business group said in the
letter.  Mongolia has delayed picking a foreign partner to develop
the West Tsankhi area of the 6-billion-metric-ton Tavan Tolgoi
coal deposit for more than two years as it seeks to balance
domestic interests with those of investors from the U.S.,
 Russia , China,  Japan  and  South Korea . Companies that have sought
to be involved include  Peabody Energy (BTU)  Corp., OAO Russian
Railways, and China’s  Shenhua Group .  Property, Banking  The negative impact from the draft law could spread to real
estate and commercial banking among other sectors in the mining
industry supply chain, Dwyer said. The law may allow for the
creation of a “a few Mongolian oligarchs,” he said.  The Business Council of Mongolia, founded in 2007, has 250
members including Rio Tinto, Peabody Energy,  General Electric
Co. (GE)  and Mitsubishi Corp. The Office of the President of Mongolia
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment
yesterday.  The current minerals law was passed in 2006 and is the
basis for the Oyu Tolgoi investment agreement between Rio Tinto,
the owner of 66 percent of the project and Mongolia, which has
the rest, according to Mongolia International Capital Corp., an
Ulan Bator-based investment bank. The proposed law is twice as
long as the current legislation, MICC said in a report last
month.  Oil, Water  The draft law defines water, oil, gas, radioactive minerals
and rare earth elements as of strategic importance, according to
an English translation of it provided by the business group. The
borders of strategic deposits will be defined by the Central
State Administration.  Investors in strategic deposits will need to establish an
accord with the government and set up a “special regime” for
mining such minerals, according to the translation of the
documents. Mongolia will take a stake in the company developing
a strategic deposits free of charge, the draft says, adding that
the percentage will be specified in each accord.  The draft proposes that Mongolia does not add new deposits
to the strategic list apart from those already on it. There are
15 deposits on the strategic list, new agency news.mn reported
last month.  The proposed legislation would need to be passed by
Mongolia’s parliament for it to become law. Chimed Saikhanbileg,
cabinet secretary, said the proposed law was drafted by the
president’s office and declined further comment.  Mongolia’s economy grew 13.2 percent in the first half of
2012, according to the national statistics office. Expansion for
the full year may have slowed to 11 percent, central bank
governor Naidansuren Zoljargal said in October. The government
has yet to release annual economic statistics.  The country, which had parliamentary elections last year,
is due to vote on a new president in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Kohn in Singapore at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  