-- Monsanto Raises Forecast as Profit Rises on Corn Seeds
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-01-08T21:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/monsanto-raises-forecast-as-profit-rises-on-latin-american-sales.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest
seed company, boosted its full-year forecast as it posted fiscal
first-quarter earnings that surpassed analysts’ estimates on
higher sales of corn seed and Roundup herbicide.  Profit was 62 cents a share, excluding income from a
divested unit, St. Louis-based Monsanto said in a statement
today. That beat the 36-cent average of 18 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Monsanto said adjusted full-year earnings will be
$4.30 to $4.40 a share, up from a prior projection of $4.18 to
$4.32. The average of 21 analysts’ estimates was $4.40 a share.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  is boosting
sales in Latin America with new corn and soybean seeds
engineered to tolerate herbicides and ward off insects. Farmers
in the U.S. are placing early seed orders after the worst
drought since the 1930s threatened supplies. Prices rose for
glyphosate, the generic form of Roundup herbicide.  “Price increases on Roundup drove the majority of the
upside relative to our model,” Michael E. Cox, a New York-based
analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co., said today in a report. “Corn
seed and trait revenues increased 27 percent, driven by strength
in Latin America.”  Monsanto rose 2.7 percent to $98.50 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 27 percent in 12 months.  The company lifted its guidance for free  cash flow  to a
range of $1.8 billion to $2 billion, from a prior forecast of
$1.7 billion to $1.8 billion. Cash on hand rose to a record
 $4.64 billion  at the end of the quarter. Monsanto may be “more
aggressive” in repatriating cash to reward shareholders, Grant
said on a conference call with analysts.  “We are focused on returning cash to our owners,” Chief
Financial Officer Pierre Courduroux said on the call. “We are
considering all our options right now.”  Sales Rise  Net income more than doubled to $339 million, or 63 cents a
share, in the three months through November, from $126 million,
or 23 cents, a year earlier. Sales rose 21 percent to $2.94
billion from $2.44 billion, led by gains in corn seed and
Roundup herbicide, exceeding the $2.64 billion average of 13
estimates.  Monsanto said the profit forecast excludes an estimated 20
cents to 25 cents a share of earnings from soybean sales in
 Brazil , which are the subject of a legal challenge. Monsanto
suspended royalty collections for Roundup Ready soybeans,
engineered to tolerate herbicide, from mid-October to early
December because of a legal dispute over patent expiration.  Genetic Licenses  Gross profit from  seed sales  and genetic licenses increased
12 percent in the quarter to $1.03 billion as higher corn-seed
sales more than made up for lower revenue from soybean, cotton
and vegetable seeds. Gross profit from crop chemicals more than
doubled to $372 million on higher prices for Roundup, Monsanto
said.  Monsanto raised its gross profit forecast for the year by
$100 million to $7.65 billion, Courduroux said. That reflects a
gain of $200 million to $300 million from higher herbicide
prices and lower seed profit due to the decision to omit profit
from Roundup Ready soybeans in Brazil because of the legal
dispute, Courduroux said on the call.  Monsanto later this year plans to begin commercial sales in
Brazil for Intacta soybeans, which are engineered to tolerate
Roundup and also produce insecticide, pending import approval
from  China , Grant said. The market opportunity for Intacta
exceeds 100 million acres, including Brazil,  Argentina ,  Paraguay 
and Uruguay, he said.  DroughtGard  The company advanced a record 18 projects in its annual
review of the research and development pipeline, including
DroughtGard corn, developed with BASF AG. Commercial sales of
DroughtGard, which boosts yields in low-water conditions, will
start this year, targeting 10 million acres from the Dakotas to
 Kansas , Chief Technology Officer Robb Fraley said on the call.  Results in Monsanto’s first and fourth quarters are
typically weakest because farmers are between planting seasons
in  North America  and  Europe .  Latin America  accounted for 23
percent of  sales  last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  