-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Trades Near 4-Month High in New York
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-01-08T08:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/top-oil-market-news-crude-trades-near-4-month-high-in-new-york.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Trades Near Four-Month High as Run Rates, Supply Seen Rising  Oil traded near the highest level in almost four months in
 New York  before a government report that may show refinery
utilization rose and stockpiles increased in the U.S., the
world’s biggest crude-consuming nation.  Oil Supply Seen Rising in Survey as Imports Gain: Energy Markets  U.S. crude inventories probably rose after the biggest
weekly drop in almost a dozen years as imports rebounded, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  Oil Tanker Overseas Reymar Hits San Francisco’s Bay Bridge (1)  The oil tanker Overseas Reymar struck “a glancing blow”
to a tower of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge after
unloading crude at a Royal Dutch Shell Plc refinery the day
before.  Asia’s Fuel Oil Crack Narrows;  Jet Fuel  Increases: Oil Products  Asia’s fuel oil crack spread narrows, signaling reduced
losses for refiners turning crude into residual products. Jet
fuel’s regrade extends gains.  Oil Options Volatility Rises From Lowest Level in Eight Months  Oil options volatility rose from an eight-month low as the
underlying futures increased.  Saigon Petroleum Seeks to Buy Gasoil Cargo for February Loading  Saigon Petroleum Co. is seeking to buy 10,000 metric tons
of gasoil for loading from Feb. 10 to Feb. 14, according to a
tender document obtained by Bloomberg News.  Taiwan’s CPC Offers to Sell 30,000 Tons of Gasoline for February  CPC Corp. offered to sell 30,000 metric tons of gasoline
for loading in February, according to a tender document obtained
by  Bloomberg News .  Shell’s Grounded Arctic Drilling Rig Towed to Safe Harbor (2)  Royal Dutch Shell Plc and a salvage crew refloated an
Arctic drilling rig that ran aground in Alaska and towed it to a
safe harbor.  TOP Oil Market News: Crude Trades Near Four-Month High in N.Y.  The following is a selection of the most important news
affecting the oil market.  Solar Mosaic’s Crowdfunding Beats Treasuries With 4.5% Return  Solar Mosaic Inc., which operates an online service that
lets individuals fund solar projects, said investors can earn a
4.5 percent return on rooftop power plants, better than 10-year
Treasuries that currently yield about  1.9 percent.  Lower-48 Natural Gas Output Rose 0.4% in October, EIA Says (1)  Natural gas production in the lower- 48 states rose to a
record in October as more of the fuel was pumped from shale
formations, the Energy Department said.  U.K. Says Ex-Deutsche Bank’s Lovegrove to Head Energy Department  The U.K. appointed Stephen Lovegrove, a former head of
Deutsche Bank AG’s European media team, as permanent secretary,
or the top official, at the Department of Energy and Climate
Change.  OPEC  Iran Crude Oil Exports Drop 40 Percent Amid Sanctions, ISNA Says  Iran’s crude oil shipments plunged 40 percent in the last
nine months, state-run Iranian Students  News Agency  reported, in
a rare acknowledgment that international sanctions are crimping
the country’s most lucrative export.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Idemitsu Kosan to Shut Chiba Oil Refinery From April to May  Idemitsu Kosan Co. will shut its 220,000 barrel a day Chiba
refinery from April to May for scheduled maintenance, said three
company officials who asked not to be identified, citing
internal policy.  Los Angeles Gasoline Gains for First Time in Six Days on Repairs  Spot gasoline in Los Angeles gained against futures for the
first time in six days on speculation that unit shutdowns at
Southern California refineries owned by BP Plc and Valero Energy
Corp. are cutting supplies.  Gulf Gasoline Advances After Motiva Shuts Port Arthur Crude Unit  Gasoline strengthened on the U.S. Gulf Coast after Motiva
Enterprises LLC shut a 325,000-barrel-a- day crude unit at its
Port Arthur, Texas, refinery.  Motiva Port Arthur Halts Crude Unit Start as Clamp Fails (1)  Motiva Enterprises LLC shut down the 325,000-barrel-a-day
crude unit at the Port Arthur refinery days after trying to
restart it when a clamp that was modified to fix an earlier leak
failed.  BP to Resume Operations at Texas City Fluid Catalytic Converter  BP Plc plans to resume normal operations at a fluid
catalytic converter at its Texas City, Texas, oil refinery
beginning at 6 p.m. local time today.  California Diesel Advances as BP Carson Refinery Plans Flaring  Spot diesel in California strengthened against futures
after BP Plc reported planned flaring at the Carson refinery,
California’s second-largest.  Gulf Crude Premiums Weaken as Brent-WTI Differential Narrows  Light Louisiana Sweet and Heavy Louisiana Sweet oils from
the U.S. Gulf of Mexico lost value on the  spot market  as the
margin between  Brent crude  and West Texas Intermediate narrowed.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Tanker Overseas Reymar Strikes San Francisco’s Bay Bridge  Oil tanker Overseas Reymar struck “a glancing blow” to
the  San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge  after unloading crude at a
Royal Dutch Shell Plc refinery.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 2.1 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
Japan fell 2.1 percent to 9.49 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Crude Oil-Tanker Bookings Seen by Poten 5% Higher in 2012  Spot, or single-voyage, bookings for crude oil-tankers
increased by 5 percent in 2012 compared with the previous year,
according to Poten & Partners Inc., a New York-based consulting
firm and shipbroker.  Libya Keeps January Es Sider Oil Price at Parity to Brent (1)  Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp. kept its official
selling price of benchmark Es Sider crude for January unchanged
at parity to Dated Brent, according to a price list obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the Middle East, Africa and the
Americas. Figures represent outright prices in dollars a barrel,
or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  Libya Keeps January Es Sider Oil Price at Parity to Dated Brent  Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp. kept its official
selling price of benchmark Es Sider crude for January unchanged
at parity to Dated Brent, according to a price list obtained by
Bloomberg News.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Hedge Fund Oil Bets Jump as Fiscal Cliff Averted: Energy Markets  Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on West Texas Intermediate
oil to the highest level in 11 weeks before U.S. lawmakers
passed a bill to undo automatic tax increases and spending cuts
that threatened the  U.S. economy .  Exxon Hedges  Oil Sands  With Offshore Project: Corporate Canada  Exxon Mobil Corp.’s plans to develop a $14 billion
underwater oil field off Newfoundland’s coast allows the world’s
biggest energy company to hedge against discounted crude from
Canada’s oil sands.  Oil Declines a Third Day; Morgan Stanley Sees Supply Recovery  Oil dropped for a third day in London amid speculation that
talks between  Sudan  and South Sudan may lead to the resumption
of crude exports.  Maersk Wants Hong Kong to Ban Dirty Ship Fuel to Fight Pollution  Maersk Line, the world’s biggest container-shipping company,
threatened to stop using cleaner fuel at  Hong Kong  port from
next year if the government doesn’t mandate higher quality oil
for carriers berthing in the city.  Gas at $8 May Lure Reliance to Start New Fields: Corporate India  Reliance Industries Ltd., sitting on untapped natural gas
reserves off India’s east coast, will be able to generate profit
from new fields if the government agrees to double prices, a
person familiar with the matter said.  Bumi-Rothschild Showdown Set for February Investor Meeting (1)  Bumi Plc, the coal producer that plunged 69 percent last
year amid a dispute over control, set up a February showdown
with co-founder  Nathaniel Rothschild  after the financier moved
to take over the company.  Long Island Power Should Be Privatized, New York Panel Says (1)  The Long Island Power Authority should be converted into an
investor-owned utility to end poor management practices that
exacerbated slow and halting repairs of blackouts from October’s
 Hurricane Sandy , a New York state investigative panel said today.  Barrick Seen Leading Gold Asset Sales in 2013: Corporate Canada  Barrick Gold Corp. and its global competitors are poised to
sell assets this year as the companies seek to reverse two years
of share-price declines.  Waste Manager Seeks $200 Million as IPOs Return: Corporate India  Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd., an Indian waste management
company, plans to raise $200 million in the nation’s first
initial share sale to finance a power plant fueled by urban
refuse.  Shell Leads S. Africa on Record Oil Rush as Coal Falters: Energy  South Africa , the African continent’s economic engine, is
on the cusp of an oil rush never before seen in the country as
burgeoning energy demand exposes the vulnerability of its
dependence on coal.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Drop Most in Two Months; Yen Pares Gain on Aso Plan  Asian stocks declined the most in two months after earnings
from Samsung Electronics Co. and HTC Corp. disappointed some
investors. The yen pared an advance against the euro as Finance
Minister Taro Aso said Japan will buy bonds issued by the
European Stability Mechanism.  Yen Set for Biggest Two-Day Gain in Two Months on Excessive Loss  The yen headed for its biggest two- day gain since November,
extending a rally from its 2 1/2 year low on speculation recent
declines were excessive.  Dollar Weakness Masked by Yen as Deficit Talks Loom: Currencies  Dollar weakness against the currencies of some of the
largest U.S. trading partners is being masked by a plunge in the
yen as bets by futures traders for a drop in the greenback re-
approach the highest levels on record.  Asian Stocks Drop for Second Day as Japanese Exporters Decline  Asian stocks fell, sending the regional benchmark index
lower for a second day, as Japanese exporters declined after the
yen strengthened and as earnings results from HTC Corp. missed
estimates.  Hedge Funds Squeezed as Shorts Beat  S&P 500  by Most in Year (3)  Speculators are abandoning money- losing bets that stocks
with the closest links to the U.S. economy will fall as
America’s most-hated shares stage the best rally in a year
relative to the broader market.  Gold Lures Japan’s Pension Funds as Abe Targets Inflation (1)  Japanese pension funds, the world’s second-largest pool of
retirement assets after the U.S., will more than double their
gold holdings in the next two years as the government seeks to
target inflation to bolster economic growth, according to an
adviser to the funds.  Record Car Sales Extending Shortages in Palladium: Commodities  Demand for palladium, last quarter’s best-performing
precious metal, is exceeding supply for a second consecutive
year as mine production stagnates while sales by automakers, the
biggest buyers, reach record highs.  Obama Said Close to Choosing Lew for Treasury Following Geithner  President  Barack Obama  may choose White House Chief of
Staff Jack Lew to replace Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
as soon as this week, according to two people familiar with the
matter.  China Paper Anti-Censorship Push Backed by Protests, Stars (1)  Some of China’s most famous celebrities and scholars
declared their support for a group of Chinese newspaper
journalists protesting what they called the unprecedented
censorship of a New Year’s editorial.  SPORTS  Everton Eases Past Cheltenham Into F.A. Cup Soccer Fourth Round  Everton eased into the fourth round of English soccer’s F.A.
Cup with a 5-1 win at Cheltenham Town.  Lionel Messi Named Soccer’s Best Player for Record Fourth Time  Barcelona’s  Lionel Messi  was crowned soccer’s best player
for an unprecedented fourth straight time after 12 months in
which he broke the record for goals in a calendar year.  Manchester United Plans to Replace De Gea, Mirror Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the web.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract
C  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       93.33  +0.14  +0.2  Nymex     Feb.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    111.40  +0.09  +0.1    Ice     Feb.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         940.25  +9.50  +1.0    Ice     Feb.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       278.30  +0.56  +0.2  Nymex     Feb.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.28  +0.01  +0.3  Nymex     Feb.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    111.78  +0.42  +0.4    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            303.21  +1.44  +0.5  Nymex     Feb.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            80.14  -0.4
Gold ($/Oz)          1,646.30  -0.2
MSCI World Index     1,366.91  -0.2  Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  Copy and paste this link for Table: NI $789 FJM  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  