-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Trades Near Four-Month High in N.Y.
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-01-08T01:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/top-oil-market-news-crude-trades-near-four-month-high-in-n-y-.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Trades Near Four-Month High as Run Rates, Supply Seen Rising  Oil was little changed amid concern that Congress will fail
to raise the U.S. debt ceiling, hurting economic confidence, and
on speculation that supplies in the world’s biggest crude-
consuming country will rebound.  Hedge Fund Oil Bets Jump as Fiscal Cliff Averted: Energy Markets  Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on West Texas Intermediate
oil to the highest level in 11 weeks before U.S. lawmakers
passed a bill to undo automatic tax increases and spending cuts
that threatened the U.S. economy.  Gasoline Futures Rise as Refinery Maintenance Cuts Fuel Output  Gasoline futures rose as several refineries cut production
of transportation fuels during maintenance.  Vitol Fails to Buy Forties; BFOE Crude Exports at 9-Month High  Vitol Group bid unsuccessfully for two cargoes of North Sea
Forties crude, one of which was at the same price as a trade in
the previous session. Statoil ASA didn’t find a buyer for a
consignment of Oseberg.  North Sea Grane February Crude Exports Stable at Five Cargoes  Exports of North Sea Grane crude in February will be stable
at five cargoes of 600,000 barrels for a third month, according
to a loading program obtained by  Bloomberg News .  North Sea Alvheim Crude February Exports to Drop to Four Cargoes  Exports of North Sea Alvheim crude for February will be
four cargoes of 780,000 barrels each, one less than this month,
according to a loading program obtained by Bloomberg News.  North Sea BFOE Crude Exports Set to Rise to Most in Nine Months  Daily exports of North Sea Brent, Forties, Oseberg and
Ekofisk crudes, which make up the Dated Brent benchmark, will
increase in February to the most in nine months, loading
programs obtained by Bloomberg News show.  Gulf Crudes Weaken as West Texas Intermediate Gains Versus Brent  Crude produced offshore in the  Gulf of Mexico  weakened as
U.S. benchmark oil strengthened against overseas imports.  Solar Mosaic’s Crowdfunding Beats Treasuries With 4.5% Return  Solar Mosaic Inc., which operates an online service that
lets individuals fund solar projects, said investors can earn a
4.5 percent return on rooftop power plants, better than 10-year
Treasuries that currently yield about  1.9 percent.  Lower-48 Natural Gas Output Rose 0.4% in October, EIA Says (1)  Natural gas production in the lower- 48 states rose to a
record in October as more of the fuel was pumped from shale
formations, the Energy Department said.  U.K. Says Ex-Deutsche Bank’s Lovegrove to Head Energy Department  The U.K. appointed Stephen Lovegrove, a former head of
Deutsche Bank AG’s European media team, as permanent secretary,
or the top official, at the Department of Energy and Climate
Change.  Vitol Sells European Naphtha; Diesel Barges Gain: Oil Products  European naphtha declined as Vitol Group sold two cargoes,
bringing its total in the past two sessions to six lots.  Mercuria Said to Hire Standard’s Harrison as Copper Trader (1)  Mercuria Energy Trading SA hired  Mike Harrison  as a copper
trader, three people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  OPEC  Iran Crude Oil Exports Drop 40 Percent Amid Sanctions, ISNA Says  Iran’s crude oil shipments plunged 40 percent in the last
nine months, state-run Iranian Students  News Agency  reported, in
a rare acknowledgment that international sanctions are crimping
the country’s most lucrative export.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Gulf Gasoline Advances After Motiva Shuts Port Arthur Crude Unit  Gasoline strengthened on the U.S. Gulf Coast after Motiva
Enterprises LLC shut a 325,000-barrel-a- day crude unit at its
Port Arthur, Texas, refinery.  Motiva Port Arthur Halts Crude Unit Start as Clamp Fails (1)  Motiva Enterprises LLC shut down the 325,000-barrel-a-day
crude unit at the Port Arthur refinery days after trying to
restart it when a clamp that was modified to fix an earlier leak
failed.  BP to Resume Operations at Texas City Fluid Catalytic Converter  BP Plc plans to resume normal operations at a fluid
catalytic converter at its Texas City, Texas, oil refinery
beginning at 6 p.m. local time today.  California Diesel Advances as BP Carson Refinery Plans Flaring  Spot diesel in California strengthened against futures
after BP Plc reported planned flaring at the Carson refinery,
California’s second-largest.  Gulf Crude Premiums Weaken as Brent-WTI Differential Narrows  Light Louisiana Sweet and Heavy Louisiana Sweet oils from
the U.S. Gulf of Mexico lost value on the  spot market  as the
margin between  Brent crude  and West Texas Intermediate narrowed.  Pemex Minatitlan Refinery Controls Small Fire, Output Unaffected  Petroleos Mexicanos  said a small fire that broke out at its
Minatitlan refinery in Mexico’s Veracruz state has been
extinguished, according to a statement posted on its website.  California Spot Gasoline Declines on Short-Term Valero Repairs  Spot gasoline in  Los Angeles  weakened against futures for a
fourth day on speculation that Valero Energy Corp. will start
two production units at the Wilmington refinery in Southern
California after short-term repairs.  CVR Said to Shut Alkylation Unit at Wynnewood, Oklahoma, Plant  CVR Energy Inc.’s Wynnewood refinery in Oklahoma has shut
an alkylation unit for unplanned work, according to a person
familiar with the situation.  Valero Said to Plan Meraux Refinery Shutdown for Late February  Valero Energy Corp. is planning to shut units at the Meraux
refinery in Louisiana for planned work that will start in late
February, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Tanker Overseas Reymar Strikes San Francisco’s Bay Bridge  Oil tanker Overseas Reymar struck “a glancing blow” to
the  San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge  after unloading crude at a
Royal Dutch Shell Plc refinery.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Fall 2.1 %  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
Japan fell 2.1 percent to 9.49 U.S. cents yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Crude Oil-Tanker Bookings Seen by Poten 5% Higher in 2012  Spot, or single-voyage, bookings for crude oil-tankers
increased by 5 percent in 2012 compared with the previous year,
according to Poten & Partners Inc., a New York-based consulting
firm and shipbroker.  Libya Keeps January Es Sider Oil Price at Parity to Brent (1)  Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp. kept its official
selling price of benchmark Es Sider crude for January unchanged
at parity to Dated Brent, according to a price list obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the Middle East, Africa and the
Americas. Figures represent outright prices in dollars a barrel,
or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  Libya Keeps January Es Sider Oil Price at Parity to Dated Brent  Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp. kept its official
selling price of benchmark Es Sider crude for January unchanged
at parity to Dated Brent, according to a price list obtained by
Bloomberg News.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Maersk Wants Hong Kong to Ban Dirty Ship Fuel to Fight Pollution  Maersk Line, the world’s biggest container-shipping company,
threatened to stop using cleaner fuel at  Hong Kong  port from
next year if the government doesn’t mandate higher quality oil
for carriers berthing in the city.  Bulls Add to Wagers for First Time Since November: Commodities  Speculators increased their bullish commodity wagers for
the first time since November as signs of accelerating growth in
China and the U.S. drove prices higher for a fourth consecutive
week.  Gas at $8 May Lure Reliance to Start New Fields: Corporate India  Reliance Industries Ltd., sitting on untapped natural gas
reserves off India’s east coast, will be able to generate profit
from new fields if the government agrees to double prices, a
person familiar with the matter said.  Oil Declines a Third Day; Morgan Stanley Sees Supply Recovery  Oil dropped for a third day in London amid speculation that
talks between Sudan and South Sudan may lead to the resumption
of crude exports.  Energy Boosts Office Market as Pittsburgh Rents at Decade High  Leasing demand from natural-gas and other energy companies
is helping to bolster the U.S. office market and drive growth in
cities such as Pittsburgh, where rents are at their highest in
more than a decade.  Formosa Petrochemical Offers Gasoil Cargoes for February Loading  Formosa Petrochemical Corp. offered to sell as much as 1.22
million barrels of gasoil, or diesel, for loading in February,
according to tender documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  Long Island Power Should Be Privatized,  New York  Panel Says (1)  The Long Island Power Authority should be converted into an
investor-owned utility to end poor management practices that
exacerbated slow and halting repairs of blackouts from October’s
 Hurricane Sandy , a New York state investigative panel said today.  Exxon Hedges Oil Sands With Offshore Project: Corporate Canada  Exxon Mobil Corp.’s plans to develop a $14 billion
underwater oil field off Newfoundland’s coast allows the world’s
biggest energy company to hedge against discounted crude from
Canada’s oil sands.  Waste Manager Seeks $200 Million as IPOs Return: Corporate India  Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd., an Indian waste management
company, plans to raise $200 million in the nation’s first
initial share sale to finance a power plant fueled by urban
refuse.  Shell Leads S. Africa on Record Oil Rush as Coal Falters: Energy  South Africa , the African continent’s economic engine, is
on the cusp of an oil rush never before seen in the country as
burgeoning energy demand exposes the vulnerability of its
dependence on coal.  OTHER MARKETS  Stocks Slip Before Earnings as Dollar Weakens, Japan’s Yen Gains  Stocks slipped before the start of earnings season, pulling
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down from a five-year high, and
the  Dollar Index  fell for the first time in four days. European
banks rose as regulators eased liquidity rules while Italian
bonds slid.  FX: Yen Strengthens 0.3% to 87.54 Per Dollar From Yesterday  Yen gains 0.2% to 114.94 per euro as of 7:45am Tokyo from
yesterday.  Dollar Weakness Masked by Yen as Deficit Talks Loom: Currencies  Dollar weakness against the currencies of some of the
largest U.S. trading partners is being masked by a plunge in the
yen as bets by futures traders for a drop in the greenback re-
approach the highest levels on record.  U.S. Stocks Fall as Investors Await Start of Earnings Season  U.S. stocks fell, after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed to a five-year high, as investors awaited the start of
the corporate earnings season tomorrow.  Hedge Funds Squeezed as Shorts Beat  S&P 500  by Most in Year (3)  Speculators are abandoning money- losing bets that stocks
with the closest links to the  U.S. economy  will fall as
America’s most-hated shares stage the best rally in a year
relative to the broader market.  LBMA’s Best Gold Forecaster Hochreiter Says Bull Market Over (1)  Gold’s 12-year bull market is over as U.S. economic growth
means investors will switch focus to precious metals that
benefit from expansion, the top forecaster in the London Bullion
Market Association’s 2012 poll said.  Copper Falls Amid Concerns on U.S. Debt Limit, German Orders  Copper futures dropped for the third straight session on
concern that demand will slump as U.S. lawmakers struggle to
reach agreement on a debt ceiling and economies in Europe
sputter.  Health Spending Grows at Half Pre-Recession Level for Third Year  Health-care spending in the U.S. grew at less than half the
pre-recession level for the third  consecutive year, as
employers shifted more costs to strapped workers and state
governments limited payouts for the poor.  McConnell Takes Taxes Off the Table in Debt Limit Negotiations  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said further tax
changes are off the table as lawmakers and the president gear up
for a fight next month over raising the U.S. government’s debt
limit.  SPORTS  Lionel Messi Named Soccer’s Best Player for Record Fourth Time  Barcelona’s  Lionel Messi  was crowned soccer’s best player
for an unprecedented fourth straight time after 12 months in
which he broke the record for goals in a calendar year.  Manchester United Plans to Replace De Gea, Mirror Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the web.  PGA Tour Opener Has Play Canceled Again, Targets Tuesday Finish  The U.S. PGA Tour’s season-opening Tournament of Champions
in Hawaii is scheduled to start today and finish tomorrow after
play was canceled the past three days because of windy
conditions in Maui.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       93.33  +0.14  +0.2  Nymex     Feb.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    111.40  +0.09  +0.1    Ice     Feb.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         940.25  +9.50  +1.0    Ice     Feb.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       278.30  +0.56  +0.2  Nymex     Feb.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.28  +0.01  +0.3  Nymex     Feb.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    111.78  +0.42  +0.4    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            303.21  +1.44  +0.5  Nymex     Feb.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            80.14  -0.4
Gold ($/Oz)          1,646.30  -0.2
MSCI World Index     1,366.91  -0.2  Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  Copy and paste this link for Table: NI $790 FJM  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  