-- Orange County Rewarded as Pension-Bond Issues Boom: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-01-08T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/orange-county-rewarded-as-pension-bond-issues-boom-muni-credit.html
Orange County, California, which has
rebounded from the second-biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy, is
set to tap into the largest wave of pension-bond sales since
2008.  Across the U.S., from the seaside city of Fort Lauderdale,
 Florida , to Oakland, California, localities sold $980 million of
the taxable securities in 2012 to finance public-worker
retirement obligations, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
up from $670 million in 2011, spurred in part by demand for
extra yield with municipal interest rates touching  47-year lows .  Taxable city and state debt beat the broader $3.7 trillion
local market the past three years. The segment earned 11.1
percent in 2012, compared with 7.3 percent for all munis,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Orange County,
home of Disneyland, is offering pension debt this week. A
similar sale last year drew bids that outstripped supply, said
Suzanne Luster, public-finance manager for the community about
35 miles (56 kilometers) southeast of Los Angeles.  “With yields this low, it’s a very attractive time to
borrow,” said Bud Byrnes, president of RH Investment Corp., a
muni trading company in Encino,  California . “It’s a great time
to put your books in order, to take care of unfunded obligations
that you have on your books.”  Lingering Deficit  States and cities nationwide are contending with a pension-
funding crisis left over from the 18-month recession that ended
in 2009. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell about  38 percent 
in 2008, the most since 1937.  U.S. states’ retirement plans had a median funding ratio of
about 72 percent in 2011, down from 74 percent the prior period,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. More than 30 had less than 80
percent of assets needed to meet obligations, leaving the plans
below the threshold considered sustainable.  Orange County’s pension was 67 percent funded as of
December 2011, Luster said from Santa Ana. Annual required
contributions have risen to about $311 million, from $201
million in 2006, bond documents show.  In two of the biggest pension-debt deals of 2012, Fort
Lauderdale issued about $338 million in September, while Oakland
sold $213 million in July. That offer included a 13-year part
priced to yield 4.68 percent, when benchmark Treasuries yielded
about 1.5 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Limited Options  Some localities selling the bonds bet investment earnings
will exceed borrowing costs. A 2010  review  of such bonds by the
Center for Retirement Research at Boston College in Chestnut
Hill,  Massachusetts , showed most lose money for the communities.  “There’s nothing inherently inappropriate about issuing”
pension-obligation bonds, said Jean-Pierre Aubry, an assistant
director at the center. “The majority of plans that are doing
it, they really have no other option. They needed some cash and
the pension bills are looming.”  Orange County sought protection from creditors in 1994
after its treasurer lost about $1.7 billion on derivatives. It
was the nation’s biggest municipal bankruptcy until Jefferson
County,  Alabama , filed in 2011 with about $4.2 billion of debt,
according to  James Spiotto , a partner in  Chicago  at law firm
Chapman & Cutler LLP.  Discount Chance  Now, the economy of the county of 3.1 million is
outperforming California and the nation, Fitch Ratings said.  The county’s median household income is about $76,000,
compared with about $53,000 nationwide and $62,000 for
California, according to  Census  Bureau data.  The municipality is selling about $269 million of bonds to
take advantage of a discount from its retirement system if it
makes its annual pension contribution early, Luster said. The
$311 million payment for the fiscal year beginning in July is
reduced to $287 million if paid this month, she said.  “This is an 18-month bond specifically to take advantage
of a discount,” she said. “It’s paid the same way we would
normally pay our contribution. Every two weeks, we’re still
collecting from county departments like we always do and putting
those funds aside to repay this debt.”  Moody’s Investors Service rates the pension bonds Aa3,
fourth-highest and two levels below the county’s rank. Holders
of pension securities, which are backed by available funds, are
more at risk than those owning bonds backed by a general-
obligation pledge, Moody’s said.  Higher Risk  Pension bonds may not appeal to all investors, said John Flahive, director of fixed income at BNY Mellon Wealth
Management, which manages $22 billion in munis. One concern is
how localities would pay for promises to workers and how the
debt would fare in California. Stockton, California, which sold
the bonds in 2007, last year became the biggest U.S. city to go
bankrupt.  “There’s more apprehension about the term pension in
taxable munis than” for anything non-pension related, Flahive
said from  Boston .  In Stockton, pension bondholders and the insurers backing
their claims may not be repaid in full. In court documents, the
city has argued the bonds are an unsecured liability that may
not be entitled to full repayment. Bond insurer Assured Guaranty
Corp. has asked the judge overseeing Stockton’s bankruptcy to
throw the case out of court.  In muni trading yesterday, benchmark 10-year debt was
little changed, yielding 1.83 percent, Bloomberg Valuation data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  