-- Mortgage Servicer Deal, Basel’s Four Years: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-08T13:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/mortgage-servicer-deal-basel-s-four-years-compliance.html
Ten of the largest U.S. mortgage
servicers will pay a combined $8.5 billion under an agreement
that will end case-by-case reviews of foreclosure-abuse claims
stemming from a 2011 deal with regulators.  Companies including  JPMorgan Chase & Co., (JPM)   Bank of America
Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  must provide $5.2 billion in mortgage
assistance and $3.3 billion in direct payments to wronged
borrowers, according to a settlement announced yesterday by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal
Reserve. They were among 14 servicers ordered to hire
independent consultants to help clean up foreclosure practices
amid claims that they improperly seized homes in the wake of the
subprime mortgage crisis.  The agreement announced yesterday covers Bank of America,
Citibank, JPMorgan Chase as well as Aurora Bank FSB,  MetLife
Inc. (MET) ,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , Sovereign Bank,
 SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,  US Bancorp (USB)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   About 495,000 borrowers applied by the Dec. 31 deadline to
have their foreclosure histories examined for missteps in
response to letters sent by regulators to 4.4 million potential
claimants. Another 159,000 foreclosures were chosen in a
sampling process, according to the OCC.  The agency said in June that servicers would be required to
deliver lump-sum payments to borrowers who had been wronged --as
much as $125,000 plus lost equity in the most egregious cases.  Compliance Policy  Banks Win 4-Year Delay as Regulators Loosen Basel Liquidity Rule  Global central bank chiefs gave lenders four more years to
meet international liquidity requirements and watered down the
measures in a bid to stave off another credit crunch.  Banks won the delay to fully meet the so-called liquidity
coverage ratio, or LCR, following a deal struck by regulatory
chiefs meeting Jan. 6 in Basel, Switzerland. They’ll be able to
pick from a longer list of approved assets including equities
and securitized mortgage debt as they seek to build up buffers
of liquidity for use in a financial crisis.  Banks and top officials such as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  pushed for changes to the LCR, arguing
that it would choke interbank lending and make it harder for
authorities to implement monetary policies. Lenders  have warned 
that the measure might force them to cut back loans to
businesses and households.  Regulators at the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
struggled throughout 2012 to revise the LCR. The LCR would force
 banks  to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day
credit squeeze. It’s a key component of a package of capital and
liquidity measures, known as Basel III, drawn up to avoid a
repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.  Basel III has been subject to mounting criticism for its
complexity, amid delays to its implementation in the European
Union and U.S. The liquidity rule sets out a stress test that
banks should apply to their books.  A draft version of the measure was published by regulators
in 2010, on the basis that it would take effect on Jan. 1, 2015.  For more, click here.  Tarullo Sees Biggest Banks With New Fed Rule Protecting Taxpayer  Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  is pushing an
agenda to regulate banks beyond the restraints in the Dodd-Frank
Act, including making them fund more of their assets using long-
term borrowing.  The Fed and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. are holding
preliminary discussions on a rule that would require holding
companies for the largest U.S. banks to maintain a minimum
amount of long-term debt that would aid in winding them down in
case they fail, FDIC spokesman  Andrew Gray  said.  As the Fed governor in charge of bank supervision, Tarullo
leads the central bank’s effort to implement the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act and is now pressing beyond it to limit the kind of systemic
risks that required taxpayer-funded bailouts in the 2008-2009
financial crisis. Tarullo, 60, became President Barack Obama’s
first appointee to the Fed in January 2009 after previously
serving as an aide to President  Bill Clinton .  Tarullo’s agenda for reducing risk also includes
strengthening supervision of so-called shadow banking that falls
outside traditional regulation and limiting the risk that the
biggest banks once again become too big to fail through mergers
and more complexity.  The push to get banks to use more long-term borrowing is
aimed at creating a class of stakeholders that could step in to
shoulder losses in case of a failure and reduce the need for
taxpayer funding.  Banks typically fund their longer-term assets with short-
term debt, making a profit on the interest-rate difference
between the two. In a bank failure, stockholders are typically
wiped out, and short-term debt can evaporate quickly as
creditors refuse to renew commercial paper and short-term notes.  In addition to looking at bank capital structure the Fed
last month published a proposal that would require stricter
oversight of foreign banks with large U.S. operations.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Barclays Among Banks Asked by Zimbabwe to Cap Lending Rates  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  are among banks
being asked to curb lending rates in Zimbabwe as the government
pressures the financial services industry to aid economic
recovery.  A draft agreement between 23 banks and the  Reserve Bank of
Zimbabwe , a copy of which has been obtained by Bloomberg,
stipulates that lending rates cannot be more than 10 percentage
points above the companies’ cost of financing, which currently
ranges between 1 percent and 7 percent while banks charge
lending rates of as much as 25 percent.  There is a need to ensure “that bank charges and interest
rates promote financial inclusion, stability and economic
growth,” the central bank and the banks say in the agreement,
which is yet to be ratified. The  Bankers Association of Zimbabwe 
met with Tendai Biti, the finance minister, to discuss the
agreement on Jan. 4.  “The matter is still under discussion and we hope it will
be finalized soon,” said George Guvamatanga, the president of
the bankers association. Calls to the Harare-based central bank
went unanswered, while Biti was said to be unavailable.  Other African countries have sought to reduce lending rates
by banks in recent months.  New Mortgage Rules Readied by CFPB as Banks Seek Time to Comply  Banks including PNC Financial Services Group Inc., SunTrust
Banks Inc. and  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  are pushing the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau to give them a year to comply with
new mortgage underwriting rules that could be released as early
as this week.  The consumer bureau’s so-called qualified mortgage
regulation, which requires lenders to ensure a borrower’s
ability to repay, will be released in connection with a hearing
in Baltimore scheduled for Jan. 10, according to two people
briefed on the plans.  The qualified mortgage rule, mandated by Congress as part
of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, is aimed at tightening lax
underwriting that fueled the housing bubble by protecting
borrowers from loans they can’t afford and, in return,
protecting some lenders from lawsuits.  Seven regional banks wrote to CFPB in recent weeks asking
that rules be “sequenced” to minimize disruptions to mortgage
lending. The banks proposed a final compliance date of Jan. 21,
2014, for the qualified mortgage rule.  A second hearing, in Atlanta on Jan. 17, will feature new
rules on mortgage servicing, according to the people briefed on
the plans. In their letter, the banks sought a compliance date
of July 21, 2014, for the servicing rules.  Jen Howard, a spokeswoman for the consumer bureau, declined
to comment. The people briefed on the plans asked not to be
identified because the plans haven’t been made public.  Dodd-Frank requires completion of the qualified mortgage
rules and some of the servicing rules the CFPB is finalizing by
Jan. 21, 2013. The law authorizes the agency to give as many as
12 months for implementation of the required rules.  For more, click here.  Euribor Facing Bank Exodus After Rabobank’s Departure, EBF Says  Euribor, the base rate for trillions of euros of lending,
may face an exodus of contributors after Rabobank Groep’s
departure, according to the banking lobby that administers the
scandal-hit benchmark.  “If some other very important banks witness Rabobank
deciding to leave, they might do the same,” Cedric Quemener,
the director of Brussels-based Euribor-EBF, which is tied to the
European Banking Federation, said in an interview.  The euro interbank offered rate is derived from a daily
survey of interbank lending rates conducted for Euribor-EBF by
Thomson Reuters Corp. Rabobank, the biggest Dutch savings bank,
withdrew from the Euribor panel on Jan. 3, citing changes in
money markets which in the past year have seen a drop-off in
lending between banks.  Membership of the now 40-strong Euribor panel has become
potentially expensive with the possibility of litigation, fines
and criminal penalties for fiddling the rate and the cost of
implementing future rules. Rabobank’s departure from the panel
that sets the benchmark for euro lending followed the exit of
Bayerische Landesbank, Germany’s second-biggest state-owned
lender, which said it withdrew from the Euribor panel on Jan. 1
due to “business-strategic reasons.”  “I do sincerely hope this chapter can be closed next
year,” Rabobank Chief Executive Officer Piet Moerland told
Bloomberg News when questioned about the investigation.  Courts  Coutts Wins Bid to Throw Out Employment Claim by Whistle Blower  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s Coutts & Co. won the
dismissal of a lawsuit bought by an anti-money laundering expert
who said the bank reneged on a job offer when it discovered he
had given authorities information about a previous employer.  Judge Hilary Norris threw out the claim at a London
employment tribunal today because Martin Woods never worked for
the bank and a valid employment contract hadn’t been agreed on.  When working for Wachovia Bank as a money laundering
reporting officer in 2008, Woods revealed the extent to which
“hundreds of millions, perhaps billions of Mexican drug
money,” was being laundered through the bank, he said in his
witness statement.  Woods, a former police officer, said Coutts had formally
offered him a three-month contract to work on its anti-money
laundering team. The offer was later withdrawn with no
explanation, he said.  The bank argued Woods was never an employee and didn’t have
the right to file an employment tribunal claim.  “We have consistently denied the allegations made by Mr.
Woods and are pleased with the tribunal’s decision to strike out
the claim,” said Caroline Wells, a spokeswoman at Coutts.  Interviews  Dichtl Says Banks Need More Diverse Liquidity Sources  Otto Dichtl, managing director at Knight Capital Europe
Ltd., discussed global bank liquidity rules set out by global
central bank chiefs.  He spoke with  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown.”  For the video, click here.  Levitt Says Bank Lobby ‘Succeeded’ in Easing Basel Rule  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said a watered down liquidity rule for
banks from the Basel Committee “amounts to no regulation at
all.” Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and  Michael
McKee  on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  London Finance Job Vacancies Fell 35% Last Year, Recruiter Says  Job vacancies at London financial-services companies fell
by more than a third last year as banks cut staff in response to
tighter regulation and weaker securities markets, recruitment
firm  Astbury Marsden  said.  New vacancies in the British capital’s City and Canary
Wharf financial districts dipped 35 percent to 35,115 in 2012,
down from 54,025 in 2011, the London-based recruiter said in a
statement yesterday. There were about 800 new City jobs
available in December, compared with about 1,490 in the same
month in 2011, the recruiter said.  Major structural changes by banks, including the winding
down of entire units, resulted from “tighter regulation,
including higher capital requirements,” which forced up costs
at a time of declining revenues, said  Mark Cameron , chief
operating officer at Astbury Marsden in London.  Securities firms have been shedding staff to reduce costs
as the debt crisis curbed trading and stock and bond offerings
slumped.  SEC Names Ex-CFTC Enforcement Chief Aronow General Counsel  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday named
Geoffrey F. Aronow, a former enforcement chief at the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, to be its top in-house lawyer.  Aronow, a Washington-based partner at law firm  Bingham
McCutchen LLP , will begin his role as SEC general counsel later
this month. His clients have included Christine Serwinski, who
was chief financial officer at MF Global Holdings Ltd.’s North
American broker-dealer before it collapsed in 2011.  The SEC general counsel evaluates regulations, advises the
SEC chairman and represents the agency in lawsuits and other
legal matters.  Aronow, 57, is the first outsider hired by new SEC Chairman
Elisse B. Walter, who took over after  Mary Schapiro  left the
agency last month. He served as director of enforcement at the
CFTC from 1995 to 1999, according to his biography on Bingham’s
website. He also has served on disciplinary panels for the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the brokerage
industry’s self-regulator.  Aronow didn’t respond to voice messages seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  