-- Swiss Stocks Advance Before Start of U.S. Earnings Season
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-01-08T13:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/most-swiss-stocks-advance-before-u-s-earnings-season.html
Swiss stocks gained as investors
awaited the start of the U.S. fourth-quarter earnings-reporting
season and a report showed economic confidence in the euro-area
rose more than forecast last month.  Actelion Ltd. jumped the most since July after the maker of
the Tracleer blood-pressure drug reiterated its forecast for
2013.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  advanced, contributing the most to the SMI’s
gain.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN)  and  Straumann Holding AG (STMN)  dropped
more than 1 percent each.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.4 percent to 7,077.38 at
2:31 p.m. in Zurich, the highest level since September 2008. The
gauge rallied 3.5 percent last week, the biggest jump in 13
months, as U.S. lawmakers approved a compromise budget that
avoided most scheduled deficit-reduction measures. The SMI
gained 15 percent last year. The broader Swiss Performance Index
advanced 0.4 percent today.  “Sentiment remains positive,” said Roland Schuermann, a
trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in Lucerne, Switzerland. “We
saw some profit-taking yesterday after strong recent gains. It
seems like the market wants to continue its move upward.
 Actelion (ATLN)  shares are sought after today, which also helps support
the market.”  Alcoa Inc., the largest American aluminum producer, will
unofficially start the U.S. fourth-quarter earnings-reporting
season after the market closes today. Fourth-quarter profits at
S&P 500 companies grew an average 2.9 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding financial companies, income
increased 0.5 percent.  Economic Confidence  Economic confidence  in the euro area gained more than
economists expected in December. An index of executive and
consumer sentiment in the euro region rose to 87 last month from
85.7 in November, the European Commission in Brussels said.
Economists had forecast an increase to 86.3, according to the
median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Separate data in  Germany  showed that exports from  Europe ’s
largest economy declined more than economists forecast in
November.  Exports adjusted for working days and seasonal changes fell
3.4 percent from October, the Federal Statistics Office said.
That’s the steepest decline in more than a year. Economists had
forecast a 0.5 percent drop, according to the  median  of 9
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports fell 3.7 percent
from October.  Actelion, Novartis  Actelion rallied 4.5 percent to 46.75 Swiss francs, the
most since July 19. The company said earnings in 2013 will about
match figures from last year, with “single-digit percentage
growth” in 2014 and a double-digit increase in 2015 because of
sales of macitentan, a planned successor to Tracleer.  Novartis added 0.5 percent to 59.50 francs. The company
will limit acquisition deals to $4 billion this year and won’t
sell assets such as its money losing vaccines units, Chief
Executive Officer Joe Jimenez said in an interview.  Separately, Novartis expects to resume shipping Theraflu in
the U.S. this year as the company sees vaccines as an investment
area and has a “very aggressive” biosimilars program, Jimenez
said.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland’s biggest bank , added 1.3 percent to
15.20 francs. Credit Suisse, the country’s second-largest,
increased 1.2 percent to 24.67 francs. A gauge of European
lenders posted the best performance of the 19 industry groups in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Nobel Biocare and Straumann declined 1.8 percent to 8.35
francs and 1.4 percent to 115.60 francs, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  