-- Hotel Deals Forecast to Rise in ’13 on Debt Availability
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-01-08T14:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/hotel-deals-forecast-to-rise-in-13-on-debt-availability.html
Hotel deal volume probably will rise
to $32 billion globally this year as sovereign-wealth investors,
mutual funds and insurance companies provide the most debt for
transactions since 2007,  Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels  said.  Alternative lenders will provide senior and mezzanine debt
following cutbacks by large banks, helping to increase lodging
deals by an expected 6.7 percent, the real estate services firm
said in its annual “Hotel Investment Outlook” report.  “When a hotel asset is trying to secure debt, there’ll be
five-plus offers from lenders, as compared to one or two a year
ago,” Mark Wynne-Smith, Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels’ London-based
chief executive officer, said in a telephone interview.
“There’s a lot of competition again.”  Private-equity firms and real estate investment trusts will
continue to be the most active hotel buyers, especially in the
U.S., where about 50 percent of transactions are expected to
take place this year, Wynne-Smith said.  Europe  will be the
second most active region, followed by  Asia , he said.  Transaction volume, which is forecast to be 74 percent less
than 2007’s record $122.3 billion, remains damped by hotel
owners’ reluctance to put a large number of properties up for
sale and “risk reversing the price recovery,” Wynne-Smith
said. He said deals probably will climb to about $50 billion by
2016, “a more realistic level” for a healthy market.  “I think 2007 was a one-time fluke,” Wynne-Smith said.
“Looking back to before the peak, transaction volumes of $50 to
$70 billion in very good years were much more realistic. I
believe that’s our future.”  Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels is a unit of Chicago-based  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , the second-largest publicly traded commercial
property broker, after Los Angeles-based  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  