-- Motiva Said to Keep Port Arthur Crude Unit Shut at Least a Week
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-01-08T22:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/motiva-said-to-keep-port-arthur-crude-unit-shut-at-least-a-week.html
Motiva Enterprises LLC expects to
take at least a week to repair a recurring leak on the 325,000-
barrel-a-day crude unit at its Port Arthur, Texas, refinery, a
person familiar with operations said.  The plant will replace a section of pipe associated with
the crude unit after several failed attempts to use a clamp to
stop the leak, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the information is not public.  The unit was shut Jan. 6 after a restart that began Jan. 3
was unsuccessful when the clamp failed. Kimberly Windon, a
Houston-based spokeswoman for the refinery, said the unit was
shut in an e-mail yesterday. She said “we still expect for this
unit to be fully restarted in the early part of this year.”  The crude unit has been idled since a Dec. 11 fire that was
caused by a leak on the unit’s heater outlet. A second fire
broke out Dec. 17 during an earlier attempted restart. The
company attempted the most recent restart Jan. 3. Workers had
modified a clamp to stop the original leak, and it would not
hold, the person said.  The crude unit, the largest of three at Port Arthur, shut
for repairs several days after its May debut. It’s a key part of
a $10 billion expansion that will almost double the plant’s
processing capacity to 600,000 barrels a day. At full rates, the
refinery would be able to make 240,000 barrels a day of gasoline
and 190,000 barrels of diesel, according to the company.  Motiva is a refining and marketing joint venture of Saudi
Refining Inc., a subsidiary of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., and Shell
Oil Co., a unit of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  