-- P&G Combining Hair-Care Research to Speed New Products
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-01-09T14:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/p-g-combining-hair-care-research-to-speed-new-products.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  named  Macy’s
Inc. (M)  Chief Executive Officer  Terry Lundgren  to its board as the
world’s largest consumer-products company works to boost sales
and trim costs.  Lundgren, 60, joins the board immediately, the Cincinnati-
based company said in a statement yesterday. Johnathan Rodgers,
66, decided not to seek reelection at P&G’s annual meeting in
October, the company said. The former broadcast and television
executive joined the board in 2001.  The appointment of Lundgren adds another CEO to P&G’s board
as it monitors Chief Executive Officer  Robert McDonald ’s plan to
cut expenses and regain market share in key categories. Until
Angela Braly resigned as  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s top executive in
August, six of the 10 outside directors on P&G’s board were
active CEOs, the highest number of any company in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index at the time, according to an analysis by GMI
Ratings in  New York .  P&G dropped 0.2 percent to $68.51 at the close in New York
yesterday. The shares gained 1.8 percent last year, while Macy’s
climbed 21 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 13
percent in 2012.  Lundgren will serve on the governance and public
responsibility and the innovation and technology committees of
the board, the same ones Rodgers has served on. Lundgren has
been chairman, president and CEO of Macy’s since 2004.  P&G’s board is one of the strongest in the world, and its
directors are “fully engaged,” Paul Fox, a spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement. Average attendance at meetings exceeds 97
percent and the company’s CEO directors are limited to serving
on three boards, including P&G, he said.  Fox also pointed to a 2011 study from the Conference Board
that showed that 56 percent of the directors of companies with
$5 billion or more in revenue were CEOs, presidents or chairmen
of for-profit companies and that P&G was in line with this
average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  