-- Pakistan Seen Doubling Palm Oil Imports From Indonesia in Deal
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-01-08T07:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/pakistan-seen-doubling-palm-oil-imports-from-indonesia-in-deal.html
Pakistan  may double palm oil imports
from Indonesia this year as  Asia ’s third-largest buyer lowers
taxes under a free-trade agreement, an industry executive said.  Indonesian  imports  may account for 50 percent of the
purchases as Pakistan cuts tariffs by 15 percent, said Arif
Qasim, chairman of the Pakistan Vanaspati Manufacturers’
Association, representing 94 companies which make hydrogenated
vegetable oils. The country imports about 2 million metric tons
of palm oil annually.  Pakistan consumes about 3.2 million tons of edible oils
annually and meets more than 50 percent of the demand through
imports from  Malaysia  after taxes were cut by 15 percent under a
trade pact in 2007. The country has offered the same concessions
to Indonesia, the largest  palm oil  producer from Jan. 18,
Sanaullah, Pakistan’s ambassador, said by phone from Jakarta.  “We are buying 75 percent of our needs from Malaysia and
about 25 percent from Indonesia now,” Qasim said in a phone
interview from Lahore yesterday, referring to annual palm oil
imports. “The equation is going to be 50-50 after the agreement
with Indonesia.”  Under a preferential trade agreement with Indonesia, buyers
will get a 15 percent rebate on import duties of 8,000 rupees
($82) a ton on crude palm oil, 10,800 rupees on RBD palm oil,
9,050 rupees on palm stearin and 9,050 rupees on palm olein.  Prices Slump  Crude palm oil futures fell 23 percent last year in  Kuala
Lumpur , the worst slump since the financial crisis in 2008, as
reserves built up for five months to a record in November. The
contract for delivery in March dropped for a fourth day, losing
as much as 1.1 percent to 2,391 ringgit ($786) a ton on the
Malaysia Derivatives Exchange today.  Indonesia’s sales to Pakistan rose last year after it
changed the export-tax structure. Indonesia cut the export tax
to 7.5 percent this month from 9 percent in December, according
to Bachrul Chairi, acting director general for foreign trade at
the trade ministry. Malaysia changed its export-tax structure to
help cut the reserves, resulting in the tariff for January
falling to zero.  The free trade pact with  Indonesia  will make crude and
refined palm oil from Indonesia more “competitive and
attractive,” Qasim said. Pakistan’s palm oil imports fell 4.8
percent to 844,178 tons in the five months through November,
according to the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics.  Indonesia needs to cut its export tax to avoid losing
market share to Malaysia in countries such as India and Pakistan
that typically buy more of the crude variety, Joko Supriyono,
secretary-general of the Indonesian Palm Oil Association, said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Augustine Anthony at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  