-- Paulson Said to Pare Advantage Plus 2012 Loss Last Month
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-01-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/paulson-said-to-pare-advantage-plus-2012-loss-last-month.html
John Paulson , the hedge-fund manager
overseeing $19 billion, pared losses in his Advantage Plus fund
by gaining 4.5 percent last month, according to a person with
knowledge of the returns.  The performance left the fund down 19 percent in 2012, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The fund lost money last year on bets
that the European sovereign-debt crisis would worsen and that
gold stocks would rise. Advantage Plus seeks to profit from
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies and uses
leverage to amplify returns.  All of Paulson’s funds gained in December except his gold-
related funds, the person said. Investors can choose between
dollar- and bullion-denominated versions for most of the firm’s
strategies. The Gold Fund, which can buy derivatives and other
gold-related investments, slumped 5.1 percent last month,
bringing its 2012 decline to 25 percent, the person said.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for New York-based Paulson & Co.,
declined to comment on the firm’s returns.  Paulson, 57, started last year seeking to rebound from
record losses in 2011, when his Advantage Plus fund fell 51
percent after wrong-way bets on a U.S. economic recovery. The
Gold Fund fell 11 percent in 2011.  Paulson’s other strategies -- his credit, merger-arbitrage
and recovery funds -- rose last year. Paulson became a
billionaire in 2007 by betting against subprime mortgages.  Europe Losses  Paulson’s Advantage fund, which employs a similar strategy
to Advantage Plus, gained 3.3 percent in December and fell 14
percent last year, the person said.  Paulson told clients in December he reduced bets that the
European crisis would worsen. Those wagers led to most of the
manager’s 2012 losses following European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi ’s comments in July that the ECB was committed to
preserving the euro. Paulson had told investors in a February
letter that the euro currency group was “structurally flawed”
and would eventually fall apart. In April, he told clients he
was betting against European sovereign bonds and buying credit-
default swaps on the continent’s debt, as protection against the
chance of default.  Slumping gold mining stocks also contributed to Paulson’s
losses in his Advantage and Gold funds. The S&P/TSX Global Gold
Index  fell  about 15 percent last year, including reinvested
dividends. Paulson had also told clients in February that gold
was his best long-term bet, serving as protection against
currency debasement, rising inflation and a possible breakup of
the euro.  Gold Slump  Gold fell 2.2 percent in December as signs that U.S.
lawmakers were closer to a budget deal reduced demand for the
metal as an alternative asset. The metal rose 7 percent last
year, capping the longest streak of annual gains since at least
1920, amid renewed concern that central banks from  Europe  to
 China  will take inflationary steps to spur economic growth.  Among the funds that gained in 2012, Paulson Partners
Enhanced increased 5.7 percent last month and 18 percent in
2012, the person said. The fund invests in shares of merging
companies.  Paulson Credit Opportunities rose 3.4 percent in December
and 9.1 percent last year, according to the person. The firm’s
Recovery Fund gained 3.7 percent in December and 3.9 percent in
2012. That fund invests in assets Paulson believes will benefit
from a long-term economic rebound.  Paulson & Co., whose assets peaked at $38 billion in 2011,
managed about $28 billion a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  