-- Persian Gulf IPO Lull Persists as Companies Have Cash, SEI Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-08T08:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/persian-gulf-ipo-lull-persists-as-companies-have-cash-sei-says.html
The drought in Persian Gulf initial
public offerings will probably continue this year as most of the
region’s privately owned companies don’t need to raise funds
from share sales to expand,  SEI Investments Co. (SEIC)  said.  “The good companies remain very cash-flow positive in the
region,” Jahangir Aka, the head of SEI Investments Middle East,
whose parent has $195 billion in assets under management, said
in Dubai on Jan. 3. “Their ability to expand on their own
working capital is very much there.”  Al Habtoor Group LLC, a Dubai-based group controlled by
billionaire Khalaf Al Habtoor, last month delayed an IPO as
trading volume failed to rebound. The company invested about 5.9
billion dirhams ($1.6 billion) in the hospitality industry last
year as it undertakes projects including the Waldorf Astoria on
artificial islands off the emirate’s coast.  Arab uprisings that ousted leaders in Tunisia,  Egypt  and
Libya and a deepening debt crisis in  Europe  slowed regional
share sales in the past two years. Money raised from IPOs in the
Middle East and North Africa reached $2 billion in 2012, Ernst &
Young International said last month. In 2008, IPOs valued at
more than $80 billion were announced, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The IPO pipeline has been limited as privately held
businesses including Al Habtoor await a revival in volume on
regional stock markets. Between  75 percent and 90 percent  of
Middle Eastern companies are owned and run by families,
according to the Dubai-based Tharawat Family Business Forum, an
independent network of Arab family businesses.  Scant Volumes  Average  trading volume  for Dubai’s benchmark index rose 60
percent to 160 million shares in 2012 -- which is still about
half the volume traded in 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. On Abu Dhabi’s index, average volume last year was 7
percent lower than 2010. Dubai’s measure surged 20 percent in
2012, making it the best-performer in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council.  “It’s only a few pennies that have run the market up on
low volume,” Aka said. “So why should the best-run companies
that churn cash on cash go to the capital markets?”  Al Habtoor’s u-turn in 2012 followed Topaz Energy & Marine
Plc, a Dubai-based oil and gas services company, which opted out
of a share sale in  London  in 2011 due to “uncertain investment
climate for new issues.” Axiom Ltd., a Dubai-based phone
retailer, in late 2010 canceled plans to raise about $100
million because of “widespread concerns about market conditions
and liquidity.”  ‘Only Catalyst’  The slowdown hasn’t been limited to the region. Companies
raised $112 billion worldwide through IPOs in 2012, the least
since 2008, amid signs of a global economic slowdown, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  IPOs in the Middle East did pick up last year, with sales
more than doubling from $844 million raised in 2011, Ernst &
Young said Dec. 23. Asiacell Communications PJSC, the Iraqi
telecom operator majority-owned by Qatar Telecom QSC, plans to
raise 1.49 trillion dinars ($1.3 billion) this month in the
Middle East’s biggest IPO in more than four years.  Still, in the GCC, mobile-phone operator Omani Qatari
Telecommunications Co. SAOG and  Aluminium Bahrain BSC (ALBH) , a metals
producer, have lost about 25 percent and 41 percent,
respectively, following share sales in late 2010.  The “only catalyst” that could rejuvenate the Gulf’s IPO
pipeline is “second or third generation family breakaways,”
SEI’s Aka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  