-- Persimmon CEO Retires as Homebuilder Reports Revenues Growth
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-01-08T09:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/persimmon-ceo-retires-as-homebuilder-reports-2012-revenue-gain.html
Persimmon Plc (PSN) , the U.K.’s largest
homebuilder by market value, said Chief Executive Officer Mike
Farley will step down after 30 years at the company.  Farley, who has been CEO for seven years, will be replaced
by Jeff Fairburn, the York, England-based company said in a
statement today. Revenue in 2012 rose to 1.72 billion pounds
($2.77 billion) from 1.54 billion pounds in 2011, it said.  “I intend to continue with the strong discipline that we
have got in place,” Fairburn, who has been with Persimmon for
23 years, said in an interview. “I will continue to see
strategic land being promoted and brought through.”  Margins are expanding after the housing market’s collapse
in 2008 forced homebuilders to slash costs to compensate for a
slump in demand. At the same time, they exploited falling prices
to snap up land cheaply. U.K. home values are little changed
over the past 18 months as a lack of homes for sale supports
prices while restricted mortgage lending and a weak economic
recovery deter buyers.  Persimmon targets an underlying operating profit margin of
15 percent to 17 percent compared with a 13 percent margin in
2012. The company owned and controlled 68,000 plots of land
approved for development at the end of the year compared with
63,335 a year earlier.  Persimmon’s cash balance was around 200 million pounds at
the end of last year, compared with 41 million pounds a year
earlier, according to the statement.  Cash Positive  “The big win for us is the cash position,” Farley, who
turns 60 in June, said in a phone interview. “We are generating
as much cash as anybody in the industry.”  The homebuilder expects sales to those buying their first
home to increase as the U.K.’s spring selling period begins. The
company said it will be allowed to use the government’s FirstBuy
financial guarantee program for an additional 3,000 properties.  Though U.K. mortgage approvals rose to the highest in 10
months in November, Persimmon is unlikely to increase the number
of homes it builds, according to Fairburn, who will replace
Farley in April.  “Until such time where there is significantly better money
in the system for mortgages, our volumes are going to be subdued
unfortunately,” Fairburn said by telephone. “We just want to
see a mortgage market that functions for the buyer.”  Home completions increased 6 percent to 9,903 and average
prices gained 6 percent to 173,400 pounds from a year earlier,
the company said in the statement.  The outlook for this year’s housing market is mixed, with
Hometrack Ltd. expecting a 1 percent decline and the Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors and  Rightmove Plc (RMV)  both seeing
a 2 percent increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  