-- Philippine Peso Advances on Bets Economy Will Sustain 7% Growth
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-01-08T08:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/philippine-peso-advances-on-bets-economy-will-sustain-7-growth.html
The Philippine peso rose after the
central bank signaled economic growth should meet the upper-end
of the government’s forecast range this year based on investment,
local consumption and spending. Bonds gained.  Gross domestic product will increase 6 percent to 7 percent
in 2013 and may even surpass that prediction made by the
administration of President  Benigno Aquino , Deputy Governor Diwa
Guinigundo told state-owned television yesterday. Growth last
year may have exceeded the 5 percent to 6 percent target,
Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said yesterday.  “Positive sentiment on 2013 expectations on the
 Philippines  is pushing investors to buy local assets, causing
peso strength,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist
at Manila-based BDO Unibank Inc., the nation’s largest lender.  The peso advanced 0.1 percent to 40.847 per dollar at the
close in  Manila , prices from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. It
appreciated 6.8 percent last year, a performance second only to
South Korea’s won among Asia’s 10 most-active currencies, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options, fell 10 basis points,
or 0.10 percentage point, to 4.2 percent.  The economy expanded 7.1 percent in the third quarter, the
fastest pace since 2010. The government will report fourth-
quarter and full-year numbers on Jan. 31.  The Philippine Stock  Exchange Index (PCOMP)  climbed 0.1 percent and
closed at a record after rising 1.2 percent yesterday to an all-
time high.  “This record-breaking advance is reflective of sustained
investor confidence in the local bourse and is an indicator of
the bullishness and vibrancy of the Philippine economy,”
presidential spokeswoman Abigail Valte said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  The yield on the 6.25 percent government bonds due November
2016 dropped seven basis points to 3.96 percent, according to
midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  