-- Pratt Beats GE to Supply Engines on Newest Embraer Jets
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s ,   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-01-09T21:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/pratt-said-to-beat-ge-for-engines-on-newest-embraer-jets.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt &
Whitney  unit won a pact to build  jet engines  for redesigned
 Embraer SA (ERJ)  jets currently powered by  General Electric Co. (GE)   The Brazilian aircraft will be the fifth to carry the new
geared turbofan model from Pratt, whose bid trumped proposals
from  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  as well as GE. Financial terms of
the agreement were confidential, the company said.  Embraer decided in 2011 to overhaul the planes with new
wings and engines rather than build a larger competitor for
narrow-body aircraft made by  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS. More
than 900 of Embraer’s E-series models are in use now, and the
redesigned planes are scheduled for delivery in 2018.  “This new generation will give a lot of value to
clients,” Paulo Cesar Silva, Embraer’s commercial aviation
chief, said in a telephone interview. “We are really doing a
modification beyond the introduction of the new motor, which
will make the jets more efficient.”  Pratt’s geared turbofan, which the company has said reduces
fuel burn by as much as 15 percent, curbs noise by using a gear
to slow the engine’s outer fan. Combined with wing improvements,
full fly-by-wire flight controls and other alterations, it will
provide “double-digit” improvements in efficiency and
maintenance costs for the revamped jets, Embraer said.  Geared Turbofan  The planemaker is still evaluating whether it will redesign
all four of its E-jet models, whose current versions carry from
70 to 120 passengers, Silva said. Upgraded versions of Embraer’s
E-195 planes, the largest of that group, may be stretched to
seat as many as 132 people, the Sao Jose dos Campos-based
company has said.  Kathleen Padgett, a spokeswoman for Pratt & Whitney, and
Deborah Case, a spokeswoman for GE Aviation, referred questions
to Embraer.  The company climbed 2.4 percent to 14.10 reais in  Sao
Paulo .  United Technologies  advanced 1.2 percent to $84.55 in New
York, while Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE rose 0.2 percent to
$20.95.  Pratt & Whitney’s win follows United Technologies Chief
Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert ’s overhaul of the company to
intensify its focus on aerospace. Hartford, Connecticut-based
United Technologies paid $16.5 billion last year to buy Goodrich
Corp., the biggest maker of landing gear, in the industry’s
largest acquisition.  Regional Market  “It’s strategically important,”  Nick Heymann , a New York-
based analyst at William Blair & Co. who has an outperform
rating on United Technologies’ stock, said in a telephone
interview. “This increases the universe of opportunities for
engine sales on the highest-cycle part of the commercial
aircraft market.”  Regional jets’ frequent take-offs and landings mean more
high-margin sales of spare parts and maintenance work for engine
makers such as Pratt & Whitney, Heymann said.  The jet-engine business garnered about 3,000 orders for the
geared turbofan through the end of 2012, according to a Dec. 21
statement. The two new engines Pratt & Whitney will produce for
Embraer will provide from 15,000 pounds to 22,000 pounds of
thrust, the planemaker said yesterday.  Pratt & Whitney is already offering similarly powerful
geared turbofan engines for other planes. The engines developed
for Mitsubishi’s MRJ regional jet produce 13,000 to 17,000
pounds of thrust, and those made for Bombardier’s CSeries
narrow-body are rated at 21,000 to 24,000 pounds of thrust.  Mitsubishi, Bombardier  Since unveiling the geared turbofan in 2008, Pratt &
Whitney has won agreements to power the new regional jet from
Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp. and narrow-body jets from Airbus SAS,
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and Russian planemaker  Irkut Corp. (IRKT)   Both Mitsubishi’s and Bombardier’s new planes have suffered
delays. Mitsubishi’s MRJ model won’t fly for the first time
until the fourth quarter as the planemaker confirms fabrication
processes and completes technical studies, while Bombardier
delayed the CSeries narrow-body’s maiden flight until at least
June after unspecified issues with suppliers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  