-- Prudential’s Krosby Sees Inflation Pressure After Rate Cuts
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-01-08T20:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/prudential-s-krosby-sees-inflation-pressure-in-emerging-markets.html
Emerging-market economies face
inflation risk as policymakers around the globe cut  interest
rates  to stimulate growth, said  Quincy Krosby , chief market
strategist at  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ’s annuities business.  “Central banks globally and in  emerging markets  have been
very active,” Krosby said today at a presentation in New York.
“Inflationary pressures are building.”  Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, cut its benchmark
rate 10 straight times through October, leaving it at 7.25
percent, the lowest level ever. The U.S. Federal Reserve has
pledged to hold interest rates low and is buying bonds to spur
growth. In China, economic expansion is projected to quicken
this year after stimulus efforts in 2012, according to
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “You will see inflationary pressures start to assert
themselves in a way that you know that they’re going to have to
tighten,” Krosby said. Emerging-market central banks may need
to raise rates, slowing growth, she said.  Inflation in  Brazil  has exceeded policy makers’ 4.5 percent
target for 27 consecutive months, and stood at 5.53 percent in
November. As emerging-market economies grow, rising demand for
industrial metals and agricultural commodities can push prices
higher, Krosby said.  Sharply rising prices aren’t likely in the U.S., Krosby
said. U.S. consumer prices rose 1.8 percent in the 12 months
ended in November, according to data from the Labor Department.
A faster pace of increases may signal a healthy economy, she
said.  “The fact of the matter is, you need some inflation,”
Krosby said. “It allows companies to raise wages. It allows
companies to raise their prices.”  Economists estimate price increases are slowing in  Mexico .
A report tomorrow will probably show annual inflation of 3.76
percent in December, according to the median of economists’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, compared with 4.18 percent the
prior month. In Chile, annual inflation cooled to 1.5 percent in
December, the slowest pace since June 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  