-- Qatar Sends Egypt Extra $2 Billion as Currency Extends Slide
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-01-08T15:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/qatar-sends-egypt-extra-2-billion-as-currency-extends-slide.html
Qatar said it doubled its deposits at
Egypt’s central bank to $4 billion, helping ease a currency
crisis as the Arab world’s most populous country waits to resume
loan talks with the International Monetary Fund.  Qatari premier Sheik Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani said those
funds have been transferred, and $500 million of new grants also
delivered to Egypt. “We don’t announce except after doing,” he
said. The comments came as the Egyptian pound extended its
decline today, falling 0.6 percent at 5 p.m. in Cairo. It has
dropped almost 5 percent in two weeks.  Egypt has struggled to revive economic growth as political
turmoil persisted after the 2011 revolution that overthrew  Hosni Mubarak . The government says the $4.8 billion loan it is
negotiating with the IMF will help by encouraging more
investment. A Fund team is due to return to Cairo in two or
three weeks to resume talks, President Mohamed Mursi’s spokesman
Yasser Ali said today.  Mursi’s Islamist government may find it hard to make IMF-
backed budget savings measures ahead of parliamentary elections
later in the year. Such cuts may cost it backing among a
population increasingly impatient with the lack of economic
progress and security.  The central bank has been rationing foreign exchange via
auctions to help shield its  reserves , after spending almost 60
percent of them since the revolution. It offered $60 million in
today’s sale.  Egypt  had signed a preliminary deal with the IMF only to
delay the request as political turmoil escalated last month.
Mursi also backtracked on a proposal to increase taxes that had
been linked to the IMF-backed plan. Egypt’s budget deficit is
projected to widen to 11.4 percent in the fiscal year ending in
June, from 11.2 percent, and the Fund has called for savings.  Constitution Challenged  Protests swelled against Mursi’s decree in November placing
his decisions above court review, and his support for a draft
constitution that opponents said bolstered Islamic law at the
expense of protecting freedoms, and didn’t represent the whole
nation.  The charter was approved with 64 percent backing in a
referendum last month, though about seven out of 10 eligible
voters abstained.  The only woman to have served on the Supreme Constitutional
Court, Tahani el-Gebali, said today she had filed a case
challenging the legitimacy of the constitution, the state-run
Middle East News Agency reported.  She is also seeking to nullify decisions linked to the new
charter, including the reduction of the number of justices
serving on the country’s highest court to 10, a move that cost
el-Gebali her seat, MENA reported. El-Gebali had been sharply
criticized by Islamists both before and after Mursi’s election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  