-- Qualcomm Upgrades Mobile Chip Lineup Fending Off Intel
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-01-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/qualcomm-upgrades-mobile-chip-lineup-fending-off-intel-challenge.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest maker of
mobile-phone chips, will accelerate the introduction of faster
semiconductors to put more pressure on  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA) , which are targeting the wireless market.  Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  showed off the new
Snapdragon 800 and 600 processors yesterday in a keynote speech
opening the International Consumer Electronics Show in Las
Vegas. The chips, which will make their way into phones and
tablets by the middle of this year, perform 75 percent faster,
according to Chief Operating Officer Steve Mollenkopf.  San Diego-based Qualcomm  climbed  IHS iSuppli’s rankings of
the largest chipmakers in 2012, jumping three places to trail
only Intel and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  by revenue. Benefiting
from surging demand for mobile phones, Qualcomm has amassed a 42
percent slice of the mobile-application processor market,
according to market researcher  Strategy Analytics .  “The pace of mobile is really accelerating and we think
we’re driving it,” Mollenkopf said in an interview yesterday.
“The game is getting more challenging, and the benefit to the
consumer is that you’re going to see much more exciting devices
in the market.”  Mollenkopf said that Qualcomm, which licenses  ARM Holdings
Plc (ARM)  technology and designs its own processors, is able to beat
its competitors on efficiency, delivering the same performance
with half the power in a phone or tablet. The new chips are
already in 50 different handsets and mobile computers, he said.  Mobile Lineup  The new 800-series chip has four processors, each capable
of running as fast as 2.3 gigahertz, the company said. It also
offers the ability to integrate the latest cellular modem
standard, called long term evolution, or LTE, something that no
other manufacturer can do, according to Mollenkopf.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung is the second-largest
maker of applications processors, since it supplies  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and manufactures the Exynos chip for its own handsets. It’s also
one of Qualcomm’s largest customers.  Intel, the largest maker of processors for computers, got
its start in phone processors last year, featured in smartphones
from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility Holdings and  Lenovo Group
Ltd. (992)  The company has yet to grab more than one percent of the
mobile processor market.  Intel Push  Executives from Intel yesterday outlined plans to introduce
new lower-power computer and tablet chips, as it targets the
shift to smartphones and tablets. Intel is stepping up efforts
to compete in the mobile market as investors bet that Qualcomm
is better placed to capture growth. Qualcomm last year surpassed
Santa Clara, California-based Intel for the first time to become
the largest chipmaker by market value.  Qualcomm, whose shares rose 13 percent last year, is
trading at a 18 percent premium to the S&P Information
Technology Sector Index on a price-to-earnings basis. Intel,
which declined 15 percent in 2012, trades at a 40 percent
discount on the same basis.  Intel also plans to offer a quad-core version of its tablet
chip lineup, code-named Bay Trail, for devices to be sold during
the end-of-year holiday shopping season.  Nvidia Corp., whose Tegra components power phones and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Surface tablet, also announced plans to
upgrade that product at the show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  