-- Treasuries Gain as Refuge Demand Boosts First Note Sale of Year
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-01-08T22:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/treasuries-remain-higher-after-stronger-than-average-3-year-sale.html
Treasuries rose for a third day as
yields close to eight-month highs bolstered demand at the
government’s first sale of notes this year and investors sought
refuge amid concern corporate profits may show economic growth
is less than forecast.  U.S. government-debt yields declined as an auction of $32
billion in three-year notes drew a yield of 0.385 percent,
compared with a forecast of 0.387 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of five of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers.
 Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place their
bids directly with the Treasury, purchased a record amount for
the second straight auction. Stocks dropped before  Alcoa Inc. (AA) 
started earnings-reporting season after the market closes.  “Equities are off and we seem to have found a bottom for
now after such a massive selloff,” Larry Milstein, managing
director in New York of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co. “These levels offer a decent buying
opportunity, given the headwinds and uncertainty to come.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year  note  fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.87 percent at 5 p.m. in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.625
percent security maturing in November 2022 rose 1/4 or $2.50 per
$1,000 face value to 97 26/32.  The  yield  on the current three-year note fell two basis
points to 0.37 percent. The record-low three-year auction yield
of 0.327 percent was reached Dec. 11.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined for a second day,
falling 0.3 percent after dropping as much as 0.7 percent.  Biggest Movers  The bond markets of  Israel  and the U.K. were the world’s
biggest movers among developed sovereign-debt issuers today,
according to Bloomberg’s Cumulative Movement Index, which
measures changes in 10-year bonds, two-year/10-year yield
differential and five-year credit-default swaps relative to the
average daily change in the past 90 days.  Israeli bonds had a cumulative movement index of 5.2 and
the U.K.’s one of 3.1. The U.S. was 12th, at 1.9.  At today’s three-year auction, the  bid-to-cover ratio  --
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered -- was 3.62, compared with an average of 3.57
for the past 10 auctions of the security.  Direct bidders  purchased 26.4 percent of the notes at the
sale, topping the previous mark of 24.8 percent set in December
and the average of 14.2 percent for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 28.4 percent of the notes at today’s
auction, compared with an average of 31 percent for the past 10
sales.  ‘Auction Dynamics’  “The auction went very well,” said Thomas Simons, a
government-debt economist in  New York  at Jefferies Group Inc., a
primary dealer. The record direct bid “speaks to an underlying
change in auction dynamics: that direct-bidder demand for short
paper is fundamentally on the rise.”  The Fed concluded at year-end its Operation Twist program
of selling shorter-term securities and purchasing longer-term
government debt, thus reducing the available supply of shorter-
term debt.  Treasuries are off to their worst start to a year since
2009, handing investors a 0.7 percent loss in 2013 as of
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
They returned 2.16 percent last year. Ten-year yields rose 20
basis points last week.  ‘Severe’ Selloff  “We had a selloff that was extremely severe,” said Thomas di Galoma, a managing director at Navigate Advisors LLC, a
brokerage for institutional investors in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“The market will gravitate to higher prices because of that.
The bargain hunters are back in the marketplace. The auctions
will go well all week.”  The Treasury is selling $66 billion in notes and bonds this
week. It’s due to auction $21 billion of 10-year securities
tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year debt the next day. The sales
will raise $24.4 billion of new cash, as maturing securities
held by the public total $41.6 billion, according to the
Treasury.  Primary dealers trade  government securities  with the
central bank and are obliged to participate in Treasury sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  