-- Record Car Sales Extending Shortages in Palladium Supply
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-01-08T19:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/record-car-sales-extending-shortages-in-palladium-commodities.html
Demand for palladium, last quarter’s
best-performing precious metal, is exceeding supply for a second
consecutive year as mine production stagnates while sales by
automakers, the biggest buyers, reach record highs.  Consumption will beat production by 511,000 ounces in 2013,
or about what the car industry uses every seven weeks, Barclays
Plc estimates. Morgan Stanley expects deficits to persist until
at least 2017 and predicts a record annual price average in
2014. Palladium will average at least $770 an ounce in the
fourth quarter, or 14 percent more than now, according to the
three most-accurate forecasters tracked by Bloomberg Rankings
over the past two years.  The commodity is one of three supply shortages left among
the 10 base and precious metals tracked by Barclays, along with
tin and platinum. Palladium is still 40 percent below the record
$1,125 reached in 2001. The slump spurred a 45 percent surge in
buying by carmakers in the past five years and Morgan Stanley
expects record autocatalyst demand in the next five. Hedge funds
are now the most bullish on prices in at least three years.  “Palladium looks very good,” said John Stephenson, who
helps manage about C$2.7 billion ($2.74 billion) of assets at
First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto. “Investor
demand is pretty strong for palladium. It also has its auto-
demand kicker.”  Raw Materials  The 10 percent gain in palladium the past quarter compared
with retreats for platinum, silver, gold and the LMEX gauge of
base metals from aluminum to zinc. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge of 24 raw materials declined 2.9 percent and the MSCI All-
Country World Index gained 2.5 percent. Treasuries lost less
than 0.1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Global car sales exceeded 80 million for the first time
ever in 2012 and will advance 2.4 percent to 82.7 million this
year, says LMC Automotive Ltd., a research company in Oxford,
 England . Americans will buy more for a fourth year, matching the
longest run of gains since the 1940s. An average autocatalyst
contains about 4 grams (0.13 troy ounce) of palladium, platinum
or rhodium, according to London-based Johnson Matthey Plc, which
has made one in three of them.  Supply from mines and stockpiles will rise 0.3 percent this
year after contracting almost 11 percent in 2012, according to
Barclays. Pay protests spread across South African mines after
starting in the platinum pits in August. The issues that sparked
the disputes persist and more disruptions are likely this year,
Tim Murray, a general manager for Johnson Matthey, told a
conference in New York in November.  Hedge Funds  Sales from Russian government stockpiles will drop to
200,000 ounces this year, from 1 million ounces as recently as
2010, according to Barclays. The reserves, a state secret, are
probably close to being depleted, Johnson Matthey estimates.  Hedge funds and other large speculators almost tripled
 wagers  on higher prices since the start of November, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. The palladium
futures market is valued at about $2 billion, New York
Mercantile Exchange data show. The funds have never been more
bullish in the data going back to December 2009.  That contrasts with seven consecutive monthly declines in
metal held through exchange-traded products, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Holdings stand at 57.6 metric tons valued at
$1.27 billion, still 12 percent more than a year ago. Investment
demand probably will total 100,000 ounces (3.1 tons) this year,
down from 430,000 ounces in 2012, Barclays estimates.  Tax Rises  Some investors are concerned that global economic growth
will slow after  Japan  and the 17-nation euro area tumbled back
into recessions and U.S. policy makers failed to resolve all the
budget issues after settling a dispute over $600 billion of
automatic tax rises and spending cuts this month.  China , the
biggest car market, is only now quickening again after slowing
for seven quarters.  The anticipated surge in prices poses a risk because it
threatens to crimp demand. Carmakers cut consumption 48 percent
between 1999 and 2002 as palladium reached a record because of
disruptions to Russian exports. The amount they used in 1999
wasn’t reached again until 2011, Johnson Matthey data show.  Carmakers also may be more reluctant to commit to future
demand as prices climb.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S.
automaker, used futures and options to lock in palladium costs
during the surge to the record in January 2001. That culminated
in a $1 billion loss for the Dearborn, Michigan-based company as
prices tumbled as much 72 percent in the following 11 months.  Metals Research  The most-accurate analysts tracked by Bloomberg aren’t
anticipating a repeat of that this year.  Eugen Weinberg , the
head of commodity research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt ,
expects a fourth-quarter average of $950, while Michael Widmer
at Bank of America in  London  projects $800. Tom Kendall, the
head of precious-metals research at Credit Suisse Group AG in
London, forecasts $770. Palladium for immediate delivery rose
0.6 percent to $674.20 an ounce at 2:17 p.m. New York time.  Equity analysts are bullish too.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) ,
the biggest producer, will report a 15 percent gain in profit
this year to $3.34 billion, according to the mean of seven
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of the Moscow-based
company rose 17 percent in 2012. Those of Johannesburg-based
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , its nearest rival, retreated 16
percent as strikes disrupted work at its South African mines.  Chinese sales of passenger vehicles rose to the highest in
almost two years in November, the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said Dec. 10. Sales should increase by
about another 10 percent in 2013,  Xu Changming , the director of
information resource development at the State Information
Center, part of the nation’s top economic planning body, said at
a conference about two weeks earlier.  “The expectations are very bullish for palladium,” said
Frank Holmes, the chief executive officer of San Antonio-based
U.S. Global Investors Inc., which oversees $1.8 billion of
assets. “Inventories for palladium in  Russia  have dwindled
down, and on the demand side, we have emerging-market growth in
auto sales.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  