-- Regeneron Shares Fall as Eylea Disappoints Investors
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-01-08T21:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/regeneron-s-eylea-sales-top-analysts-estimates.html
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) , the
drugmaker today celebrating the 25th anniversary of its
incorporation, fell the most in five weeks after reporting sales
for its eye drug Eylea that disappointed investors.  Regeneron declined 3.2 percent to $176.63 at the close in
New York, for its biggest single-day decline since Nov. 30.
Sales of Eylea, approved in 2011 for wet age-related macular
degeneration, were $838 million for 2012, beating the $817.3
million average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Regeneron, based in Tarrytown, New York, sees the drug’s
U.S. sales growing by 50 percent in 2013, Chief Executive
Officer Len Schleifer said in an interview. While the revenue
numbers were “solid,” investors have come to expect Eylea to
beat estimates by a wide margin, said  Phil Nadeau , a Cowen & Co.
analyst in New York, in a note to clients today.  “We therefore suspect that the reported sales and guidance
fell short of recent thinking,” he wrote.  Eylea generated $276 million in last year’s fourth quarter,
more than the average of six analysts’ estimates of $264.2
million. A 50 percent increase for 2013 would bring the drug’s
revenue to $1.26 billion.  “We’re an instant overnight success,” Schleifer joked in
an interview at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s annual health-care
conference in  San Francisco . Regeneron was incorporated on Jan.
8, 1988, he said, and Eylea is its first major drug.  Peak Sales  The medicine competes with  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Lucentis in
treating a leading cause of blindness in the elderly. It has
topped analysts’ sales projections since it was approved,
doubling the company’s share price in the last year.  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  estimated when Eylea was approved that revenue would reach
a peak of $1.1 billion in 2021. Regeneron today forecast greater
sales for next year.  Wet AMD is caused by abnormal blood vessel formation at the
back of the eye, triggering fluid to leak into the macula and
creating scarring that obscures vision. It’s treated with
injections into the eye. Regeneron’s drug is designed to be able
to be administered less frequently than Roche’s Lucentis, which
drew 2011 revenue of 1.5 billion Swiss francs ($1.7 billion).  Eylea received approval in September for patients with
macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion, an eye
disorder that affects an estimated 100,000 people in the U.S.
About 200,000 people in  North America  are diagnosed annually
with wet AMD, according to Roche’s Genentech unit.  Asthma Trial  Regeneron also said it plans by the middle of the year to
start mid-stage trials in asthma and atopic dermatitis, a
chronic skin disorder, of REGN668, a compound that controls a
receptor for interleukin-4, or IL-4, which regulates the immune
system. Regeneron also has experimental medicines for high
cholesterol, rheumatoid arthritis and cancer in its pipeline.  “The machine is still humming,” Schleifer said. The
company’s strategy is to “follow the molecules,” he said,
letting what looks most promising scientifically to dictate what
Regeneron works to develop.  “We’ve learned how to navigate failures,” he said.
“That’s part and parcel of what you have to do in this
business. You navigate failure by not having only one bet. You
need to have lots of shots on goal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  