-- Rice Stock Estimates Studied by FAO on Lack of Reliable Data
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-08T17:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/rice-stock-estimates-studied-by-fao-on-lack-of-reliable-data-1-.html
Rice-stock estimates for several
countries including China may not be accurate due to a lack of
reliable data on consumption and post-harvest losses, according
to the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization.  The estimate for China’s stocks may be too high, Concepcion Calpe, the FAO’s senior rice analyst, said by phone from  Rome 
today. The UN agency is studying the rice balance sheets of
several countries as part of creating the Agricultural Market
Information System, she said.  The FAO has forecast world rice stocks will climb to a
record 169.8 million metric tons at the end of 2012-13 from
159.3 million tons a year earlier. Growing rice stockpiles
avoided a food crisis last year even as wheat and corn prices
jumped on drought in the U.S. and  Russia , the  World Food
Programme  said in September.  “It’s very difficult to get any clue about the stocks,”
Calpe said. “Even developed countries have problems, it’s
general. FAO has very high estimates for stocks in China, and
we’re worried that this might not be the case.”  The FAO, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  and the
International Grains Council all have different estimates for
rice inventories, according to Calpe.  “We have no idea what the stocks are,” Calpe said. “Even
the definition of stocks is difficult. We’re trying through AMIS
to come up with a normalized method to improve the overall
balances.”  Shared Database  The Group of 20 nations agreed last year to set up AMIS as
a shared database of food stocks and crop forecasts, managed by
the FAO, to increase market transparency and reduce price swings
for agricultural commodities.  Calpe said fewer than 10 countries, including the U.S. and
the  Philippines , conduct “serious” surveys to keep track of
rice  stockpiles , while countries in  Europe  as well as  Japan  lack
accurate data.  Estimates indicate China’s stockpiles have been rising for
eight years as per-capita consumption of rice declines and
output continues to rise, according to Calpe. The FAO’s analysts
are questioning whether this is reasonable, because keeping
stocks is expensive, she said.  The FAO is working with China and other AMIS countries to
improve the reliability of data, including rice consumed as
food, the analyst said.  Rice imports into China last year by private buyers were
prompted by high domestic prices, which in turn may have been
the result of the government’s policy to keep large rice stocks,
according to Calpe. The estimate for Chinese rice inventories
may turn out to be correct, she said.  “For eight years they’ve been stockpiling in  China ,”
Calpe said. “China definitely can afford these things, but we
need to have some evidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  