-- Riksbank’s Jansson, Wickman-Parak Considered Bigger Rate Cut
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-01-08T09:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/riksbank-s-jansson-wickman-parak-considered-bigger-rate-cut.html
Swedish central bank deputy governors
Per Jansson and Barbro Wickman-Parak “thought a great deal”
about cutting the repo rate by half of a percentage point last
month to boost a Swedish economy hurt by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The Riksbank on Dec. 18 lowered its benchmark rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 1 percent -- the fourth cut in
a year. While Deputy Governor Lars E.O. Svensson voted to lower
the rate by 0.5 percentage point, both Jansson and Wickman-Parak
considered such a reduction before joining the majority decision
of the six-person board, according to  minutes  published today
from the rate meeting on Dec. 17.  Sweden is struggling with the fallout from Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis, which has led to a slump in Swedish
exports, about 70 percent of which go to Europe. Some of
Sweden’s biggest companies, including TeliaSonera AB and Volvo
AB have cut thousands of jobs in an effort to adjust to
shrinking export markets.  Sweden ’s krona slid 0.4 percent to 8.5630 per euro as of
10:33 a.m. in Stockholm.  “During the autumn it has become increasingly clear that
the weak developments abroad and the distrust linked to the
political crisis have gnawed their way into the Swedish
economy,” Wickman-Parak said in the minutes.  Signal Perception  Jansson, who in October thought the repo rate could be left
unchanged, last month wanted to cut the rate “immediately” and
saw two alternatives -- lowering by a quarter or half a point.  According to the minutes, Jansson “wondered” whether a 50
basis point cut could increase unease among households. “Could
such a measure really be perceived as a signal that the Riksbank
believes that Sweden is now in a crisis?,” he said.  Wickman-Parak said the effects of a larger cut would have
been limited.  “Cutting the repo rate by 50 basis points would have the
effect of surprise, which could affect the krona exchange rate
and provide some support to exports, but this support should not
be exaggerated, as the problem essentially concerns weak demand
from abroad,” Wickman-Parak said in the minutes.  The bank said on Dec. 18 it expects the rate to be at 1.1
percent in a year, versus an October forecast of 1.3 percent. It
sees the rate at 1.8 percent by the end of 2014. Two of the
bank’s six board members, Karolina Ekholm and Svensson, entered
reservations against the repo rate forecast, advocating a trough
of 0.75 percentage point and 0.5 percentage point, respectively.  The Swedish economy will expand 1.2 percent next year,
compared with an October forecast of 1.8 percent, the Riksbank
said on Dec. 18. Its prediction for 2014 growth was unchanged at
2.7 percent, while it sees inflation at only 0.3 percent next
year, far below its 2 percent target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  