-- Robert Walters Declines on Challenging Outlook: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-01-08T11:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/robert-walters-declines-on-challenging-outlook-london-mover.html
Robert Walters Plc (RWA)  fell the most in
almost six months after the recruitment company said there were
no signs that “challenging” market conditions will improve in
2013.  Hays Plc (HAS)  and  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  also declined.  Robert Walters  fell  as much as 5.9 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since July 13, and was down 5 pence or 2.5 percent
at 198 pence at 11:43 a.m. At least four analysts trimmed their
2013 profit estimates.  “Under current trading conditions we still believe most
recruiters remain significantly over-valued,” Paul Jones, an
analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. who recommends  selling  the
stock, said in a note to clients. “Robert Walters is no
exception.”  The recession in  Europe , the slowdown in  emerging markets 
and fewer banking sector hires are holding back job recruitment
and providing few signs of when markets will recover. Companies
such as Hays now earn most of their fees outside the U.K.  “With market conditions remaining challenging, and the
nature of the downturn meaning that visibility is even lower
than usual, we are rebasing our forecasts to take a more
cautious stance on the pace of recovery,” Sebastien Jantet, an
analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  with a buy recommendation on the stock,
said in a note to clients.  Continued Uncertainty  Fourth-quarter net fee income rose 2 percent to 47.4
million pounds ($76.3 million) from a year earlier, and was 4
percent higher on a constant currency basis, London-based Robert
Walters said in a statement.  The company expects to meet its 2012 forecasts and had
already taken action to manage its cost base given the continued
uncertainty, Chief Executive Officer Robert Walters said.  Hays, the U.K.’s largest recruitment firm, is due to
provide a fourth-quarter trading update on Jan. 10. It fell as
much as 4.2 percent and was down 2.5 percent at 83.75 pence.
James Gilbert, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity, yesterday raised
Hays to buy from hold on evidence of stabilizing global demand.  Michael Page, which is due to make a trading statement a
week today, fell as much as 6.6 percent, the most since June,
and was down 3.7 percent at 399.4 pence.  Investec’s Jantet cut his estimate for 2013 pretax profit
at Robert Walters by 28 percent and by 40 percent for 2014.
Analysts at Canaccord, Panmure and Shore Capital also lowered
2013 pretax profit estimates. Oriel Securities said it would
“look carefully” at this year’s estimates, which may prove
demanding given the current trading and outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  