-- Ryan Nelsen to Quit Queens Park Rangers, Join Toronto as Coach
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-01-08T16:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/ryan-nelsen-to-quit-queens-park-rangers-join-toronto-as-coach.html
Queens Park Rangers defender  Ryan Nelsen  will leave the English Premier League’s bottom team to
become head coach of Toronto FC in  Major League Soccer , although
he’ll stay with QPR in the short term as it battles relegation.  The 35-year-old New Zealander’s planned move was announced
at a press conference in Toronto today. He replaces former
England player Paul Mariner at the Reds, which finished last in
the MLS Eastern Conference in 2012.  “From the first time I met Ryan I was incredibly impressed
by his leadership qualities,” Toronto’s president and general
manager Kevin Payne told reporters. “I’m absolutely thrilled
he’s agreed to join Toronto FC. I have every confidence he will
turn things around.”  Nelsen said he’ll stay at QPR for the time being as he
needs to sort out details about his departure and doesn’t want
to let the club down. He couldn’t give an exact date for his
departure. The MLS season begins in March.  “I’m under contract at QPR at the moment and they’re in a
difficult situation,” Nelsen said, adding that he had a
commitment to QPR manager  Harry Redknapp  and club owner  Tony Fernandes . ``I have an obligation to QPR, I really want QPR to
stay up. Harry and Tony are fantastic people. We’ll be talking
when I get back. If we can get five straight wins that would
be perfect.”  Vice-captain Nelsen’s departure will be a blow for QPR,
which he joined from Tottenham last June on a one-year contract.
He’s made 18 league appearances and become a favorite of the fans
of the west London team, which has just two wins from 21 league
games.  ‘Excited’  “I’m extremely excited to be here, it’s a privilege. It’s
a challenge I just can’t wait for,” Nelsen said. “For me TFC
is a shining light in passion and loyalty and the way the club
is run. We’ll make my team a very combative team, they’ll never
give up.”  Redknapp is disappointed to lose Nelsen, who’s become a
key player this season.  “He has been fantastic, I took him to Tottenham last year
from Blackburn,” Redknapp told reporters last weekend. “He’s
one of the best pros I’ve ever met in my life, a fantastic
player, a great trainer, a leader. To lose him would be a
massive blow for us.”  Nelsen captained his country at the 2010  World Cup  as well
as at the Olympics in 2008 and 2012. He spent seven years at
 Blackburn Rovers , having previously been at Christchurch United
and MLS team DC United. Payne was an executive at DC during
Nelsen’s time there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  