-- SAC Capital Said to Raise Bonuses Amid U.S. Insider Probe
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-01-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/sac-capital-said-to-raise-portfolio-managers-bonuses.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP is raising
bonuses for its portfolio managers by 3 percentage points to
help retain employees as the U.S. government’s insider-trading
probe moves closer to  Steven A. Cohen ’s $14 billion hedge fund,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  The bonus increase announced yesterday will be paid to
equity, macro and commodity portfolio managers, said the person
who asked not to be named because the information is private.
The firm’s portfolio managers are typically paid an annual bonus
of about 15 percent to 25 percent of the profits they generate
from their investments, according to another person.  “This raise should help to allay fears for some SAC
employees,” said  Michael Karp , chief executive officer of
Options Group Inc., a New York-based recruiting firm.  Hedge
funds  typically pay bonuses of about 10 percent to 12 percent
with larger funds paying more, depending on strategy and fees,
he said.  SAC was told by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
last year that the agency is considering pursuing civil fraud
claims related to alleged  insider trading  in two drugmakers by a
former portfolio manager. Prosecutors say Cohen, the 56-year-old
billionaire founder of SAC, discussed the stocks with the
manager, the first time they linked him to a transaction at the
center of an insider-trading case.  Martoma’s Bonus  SAC, like other hedge funds, doesn’t disclose portfolio
managers’ pay. The  Stamford , Connecticut-based firm has about
1,000 employees working out of offices from New York to  Hong
Kong , and 125 teams of traders and analysts.  “The program is intended to retain our most valuable
resource, our investment professionals,” Jonathan Gasthalter, a
spokesman for SAC, said of the increase. He declined to comment
on how much the firm is raising bonuses.  Mathew Martoma, the former SAC employee charged in November
with what prosecutors called a record-setting insider-trading
scheme that netted as much as $276 million for the hedge fund in
2008, received a bonus of $9.38 million in January 2009.  Martoma traded on inside tips about clinical trials of a
drug intended to treat  Alzheimer’s disease , prosecutors said in
their criminal complaint. Martoma allegedly advised Cohen to
sell shares of Wyeth LLC and Elan Corp., the companies that were
developing the drug, before negative news about its performance
was announced.  Cohen Sued  SAC and Cohen were sued Dec. 21 by a group of Elan
investors who claimed losses as a result of the alleged illegal
insider trading in the drugmaker’s stock.  Gasthalter said in November that Cohen and SAC are
confident they acted appropriately and will continue to
cooperate with the government’s inquiry. Neither Cohen nor SAC
have been accused by the government of any wrongdoing.  At least eight current or former SAC employees have been
tied to allegations of insider trading while working at the
hedge fund. Four have pleaded guilty to federal charges,
including one who is serving a prison sentence.  SAC, which charges the highest fees in the hedge-fund
industry at 3 percent of assets and as much as 50 percent of
profits, has produced average annual returns of 30 percent since
the firm’s 1992 inception. Cohen is worth $9.5 billion,
according to  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Beating Peers  The hedge fund’s SAC Capital International fund returned 12
percent last year through Dec. 21, a person with knowledge of
the matter said this week. The hedge-fund industry returned an
average 6.7 percent last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 13
percent.  Clients, who account for about 40 percent of SAC’s assets,
have until the middle of next month to decide if they want to
pull their money. They can only pull 25 percent of their
investment every quarter after giving 45 days notice, meaning it
would take them a year to redeem in full.  Citigroup Inc.’s private bank is advising clients not to
add money to SAC, two people with knowledge of the matter said
last month. Societe Generale SA’s Lyxor Asset Management unit
has asked to withdraw its clients’ funds from SAC, a person with
knowledge of the situation said in December.  Blackstone Group LP is monitoring how the government
proceeds with respect to SAC and will make a decision
accordingly, J. Tomilson Hill, who oversees the New York-based
firm’s hedge-fund investments, said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  