-- SAP Adds North America to Cardenuto’s Remit as Predecessor Quits
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-01-08T16:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/sap-adds-north-america-to-cardenuto-s-remit-as-predecessor-quits.html
SAP AG (SAP)  named Rodolpho Cardenuto
president of a combined Americas region, promoting an executive
who led record Brazilian sales as the largest maker of business-
management software seeks to bolster growth in  North America .  Cardenuto, who previously oversaw business in  Latin America 
and the Caribbean region, will add North America to his
portfolio and relocate to the global sales headquarters in
Pennsylvania, SAP said today in an e-mailed statement. Geraldine McBride, previous North America chief, left the company after
less than a year in a move unrelated to performance, spokesman
Daniel Reinhardt said by phone.  Cardenuto will be the third North American leader for
Walldorf, Germany-based SAP in the last nine months. McBride’s
predecessor Robert Courteau left last year after 15 months in
the job after North American software sales fell in the three
months through March.  The Americas region accounted for about 40 percent of SAP’s
sales in the third quarter. The sales organization’s structure
will ensure that sales and service units are based in the same
geography to more effectively address customer needs, Reinhardt
said.  “Cardenuto joined SAP in 2008 and is a proven leader who
has consistently led his region, including key markets like
Brazil and  Mexico , to record growth,” SAP said.  Germany, Austria and Switzerland will be joined with
eastern European and former Soviet markets into a new Middle &
Eastern  Europe  division headed by Michael Kleinemeier, who had
led efforts in the three countries. The diminished region of
Europe, the  Middle East  and North Africa will continue to be
headed by Franck Cohen, while Steve Watts will remain president
of the Asia-Pacific and Japan markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  