-- State Bank Plans to Sell Bad-Loans: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-01-11T11:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/sbi-plans-bad-loan-sale-to-boost-credit-quality-corporate-india.html
(Corrects to say trading companies are struggling to repay
debt in fourth paragraph of story originally published Jan. 9.)  State Bank of India , the nation’s
largest lender by assets, plans to sell part of its 492 billion
rupees ($8.9 billion) of soured debt to boost asset quality and
 profit  amid the slowest economic growth in a decade.  The  government-controlled  bank is working on the sale or
recovery of 37 percent, or 180 billion rupees, of its bad loans,
Soundara Kumar, who heads the bank’s stressed assets management
division in Mumbai, said in an interview. She declined to
elaborate or reveal a timeline for the sale.  “For the first time in recent years we are looking at
selling non-performing loans,” she said. “We’ve been trying to
recover all these loans on our own so far, with some success.”  The 207-year-old lender is seeking to boost net income as
Indian banks’ bad-loan ratio jumped the most in at least five
years in the 12 months ended Sept. 30. Indian steelmakers,
textile producers and trading companies are struggling to repay
debt as the highest  interest rates  among the major emerging
economies in  Asia  and a weakening rupee erode their earnings,
according to Kumar.  “The pace at which bad loans are rising is forcing them to
clean-up the balance sheet by selling it,” said Nitin Kumar, a
Mumbai-based banking analyst at Quant Broking Ltd. “Other
state-run banks will follow as investors are becoming
uncomfortable regarding stressed assets.”  Beating Estimates  Stressed assets at SBI, which include gross non-performing
loans and restructured debt, rose to 5.98 percent of total loans
as of September from 5.58 percent a year earlier, according to
presentation material on its website.  Bad loans to steel, textile and trading companies account
for more than one-fifth of SBI’s soured debt, according to
Kumar, whose 200-member team recovered more than 5 billion
rupees of written-off loans in the three months to Sept. 30.  SBI’s net income jumped 30 percent to 36.6 billion rupees
in the quarter, beating analysts’ median profit  estimate  of 35.2
billion rupees. Last quarter’s earnings are due before mid-
February.  Shares of the bank climbed to a 19-month high today after
surging 47 percent last year, their biggest annual gain since
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a 26 percent advance in the benchmark  BSE India Sensitive
Index. (SENSEX)  SBI’s stock rose 1.2 percent to 2,522.80 rupees in Mumbai
today, making it the best performer on the 14-member  Bankex
Index. (BANKEX)   Pricing Challenge  Stressed loans as a percentage of net advances at the bank
are the lowest among the five largest state-run lenders by
assets, SBI said in a second-quarter investor  presentation  on
its website.  Amid slowing economic growth and waning demand for lending,
Indian banks including SBI may face difficulties in price
negotiations with asset reconstruction firms looking to buy bad
loans, said Hatim Broachwala, a Mumbai-based analyst at Karvy
Stock Broking Ltd.  “Banks and asset reconstruction companies almost never
meet eye-to-eye on valuations,” he said. “The differences on
valuation still remain a challenge in these sales.”  Asset reconstruction companies were formed after  India ’s
parliament passed a law in 2002 to help banks sell their bad
loans and cut risk.  Soured debt at Indian banks has increased as a percentage
of total loans even as the  Reserve Bank  of India predicts
lending growth will cool to the slowest pace in nine years in
the 12 months ending March 31. Asia’s third-largest  economy  is
forecast to expand 5.7 percent to 5.9 percent in the same
period, according to finance ministry estimates, the smallest
gain since 2003.  Weaker Rupee  Bad loans at Indian banks rose to 3.6 percent of total
lending as of Sept. 30 from 2.8 percent a year earlier,  data 
provided by the nation’s central bank show. The RBI has said
lending growth may be 16 percent in the current fiscal year, the
least since 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank loans, excluding advances to state agencies for food
procurement, increased 16.3 percent in the 12 months to Dec. 14,
according to RBI data.  A weaker rupee pushed up import costs for manufacturers,
adding to the inability of borrowers to pay back debt, said
Quant Broking’s Kumar. The local currency declined 3.5 percent
last year against the dollar after a 16 percent plunge in 2011,
the biggest two-year drop among Asian currencies, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Nomura Holdings Inc. predicts the rupee will weaken to 59
per dollar by the end of this year. The currency strengthened
0.5 percent to 54.755 a dollar today.  Solid Collaterals  Lenders are also resorting to revamping debt to strengthen
their asset quality and boost investor confidence by offering
borrowers a moratorium on repayment, extended maturities and
lowered interest rates. Such renegotiated loans more than
doubled in the year ended March 2012 to 2.2 trillion rupees,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  China’s five largest banks, which account for more than
half of the nation’s lending market, had about 38 billion  yuan 
($6.1 billion) of renegotiated loans as of June 30, according to
their semi-annual earnings reports. That accounted for 0.1
percent of their total advances.  SBI has 35 billion rupees of loans in the restructuring
pipeline now, the Indian lender’s Kumar said.  “Large part of these stressed assets are backed by solid
collaterals,” she said. “So sale or recovery of these assets
shouldn’t be very difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  