-- Small Business Index in U.S. Little Changed From Three-Year Low
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-01-08T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/small-business-index-in-u-s-little-changed-from-three-year-low.html
Confidence among U.S. small
businesses was little changed in December from an almost three-
year low as owners waited for a decision on fiscal policy, a
survey found.  The National Federation of Independent Business’s optimism
 index  improved 0.5 point to 88 from 87.5 in November, the lowest
reading since March 2010. Six of the measure’s 10 components
rose and one was unchanged, the Washington-based group said.  Lingering negotiations among lawmakers about how to avert
automatic tax increases and spending cuts that would have taken
effect Jan. 1 probably weighed on small-business owners through
year-end. The deal reached by President  Barack Obama  and
Congress may have since eased firms’ concerns.  “Congress diddled right up to the end of the year, so
there was no new information about the future of the economy,
other than rising concerns that nothing would be done,” William Dunkelberg, the group’s chief economist, said in a statement.
“Having some certainty about tax rates and some ‘tax extenders’
will provide some relief to owners, but doesn’t guarantee a more
positive forecast for the economy.”  The NFIB report was based on a survey of 648 small-business
owners through Dec. 28. Congress passed a bipartisan agreement
on Jan. 1 making permanent the George W. Bush-era income tax
cuts for 99 percent of Americans while letting them end for top
earners. The agreement left undetermined what to do about
automatic government-spending cuts and raising the debt ceiling.  Last month’s improvement in the small-business index
compares with a 5.6-point November plunge as owners grew
increasingly concerned that the economy would slump.  Biggest Gains  The two components with the biggest gains in December were
the sales outlook measure and the earnings gauge, which each
advanced three points, today’s report showed.  The net share of businesses projecting improved economic
conditions six months from now was unchanged at minus 35
percent, the lowest since monthly records began in 1999, today’s
report showed.  The three components showing a drop were led by a four-
point decline, to a net 1 percent, in the reading of those
planning to add jobs. Indices measuring hard-to-fill openings
and expectations for easier credit conditions also fell.  Payrolls rose by 155,000 workers in December following a
revised 161,000 advance in November that was more than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed last week. The
unemployment rate held at 7.8 percent, matching the lowest since
December 2008.  Survey Calculations  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
with a positive response and adjusting the results for seasonal
variations.  The gauge’s reading of 88 compares to a low of 81 in March
2009, according to NFIB monthly data going back to 1986. The
index peaked at 107.7 in November 2004.  Small companies represent more than 99 percent of all U.S.
employers, according to the U.S. Small Business Administration.
A small business is defined as an independent enterprise with no
more than 500 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  