-- Smart Health-Care Strategy Hidden in ‘Cliff’ Deal
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-01-08T23:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/smart-health-care-strategy-hidden-in-cliff-deal.html
One little-noted provision I was
encouraged to see tucked in last week’s fiscal-cliff legislation
is Section 601(b): an incentive for doctors to expand their use
of something called clinical data registries.  These registries collect information on patient
characteristics, patterns of care and outcomes that can be
crucial to evaluating what medical techniques and strategies
work and which ones don’t. Unfortunately, registries are not as
widespread as they should be -- and the ones that exist often
are limited to particular types of care.  Data from insurance-claim forms, in contrast, are easier to
obtain and more comprehensive across episodes of care. However,
these reveal only which tests and procedures were performed, and
tell very little about how the patient fared.  What would be ideal for people who analyze health-care
practices would be to have some way of combining registry and
insurance-claim data. As the Engelberg Center for Health Care
Reform at the  Brookings Institution  emphasized in a  2010 white
paper , one could “describe registry data as ‘an inch wide and a
mile deep,’ and claims data as ‘a mile wide and an inch deep.’
Linking these data sources can overcome the shortcomings of each
to produce information that is both comprehensive and clinically
detailed.”  Such linking requires, first, a matching algorithm that can
make sure Jane Smith in the insurance-claims database is the
same Jane Smith found in the clinical-data registry. It also
requires getting the clinical data into a registry in the first
place.  Digital Promise  Electronic health records contain much information about
patient outcomes, and in digital form. Yet their promise will
not be realized unless, with appropriate privacy protections,
the data are recorded in registries, making it possible to learn
from the array of medical experiences that various patients
have. Such learning is the only good way for us to improve the
value of the health-care system.  Many medical specialty groups and some providers are
already using clinical-data registries. The Maine Medical
Center, for one, has a registry on patients treated for  heart
disease  and diabetes. The Society of Thoracic Surgeons has long
sponsored a national database with information on patients who
undergo coronary artery bypass graft and other types of thoracic
surgery. And the American College of Cardiology Foundation has
its National Cardiovascular Data Registry, which collects
information on many kinds of cardiology care.  A couple of years ago, a research team from  Duke University 
was able to use the cardiovascular data to  discover  that more
than 20 percent of heart patients who received implantable
cardioverter defibrillators should not have received them, based
on evidence guidelines. Unnecessary implants not only raise
costs but also pose dangers for patients; the study found those
with implants who didn’t need them stood a risk of in-hospital
death and post-procedure complications that was significantly
higher than that of patients who fit the evidence guidelines.
Without a registry, such analyses are not possible.  So what could be done to encourage more clinical-data
registries? The Engelberg Center has identified several sensible
steps, including clarifying the privacy rules associated with
linking databases, standardizing data elements and definitions
for the registries, and working to ensure that registries and
electronic health records can operate in synchrony.  Even with all those steps, though, we would still need to
encourage doctors and other providers to participate in registry
data gathering. The fiscal-cliff legislation takes a step in
this direction by allowing doctors to opt out of other quality-
reporting requirements if they participate in an approved
registry. This idea has long been promoted by Kavita Patel of
the Engelberg Center. It won’t be a panacea, but every little
bit helps.  Specialties First  It would make sense for  Kathleen Sebelius , the secretary of
health and human services, to make new registries for specialty
care a priority. Many such registries already exist, but
participation in them could be expanded to other types of care
and more providers. Furthermore, other quality-reporting
requirements are too basic to affect many areas of specialty
care. Yet, as I have  emphasized   previously , Medicare costs are
driven disproportionately by a small number of very expensive
patients, most of whom are heavy users of specialty treatment.
So early promotion of registries in those areas could yield
ideas for lowering the cost of some of the most expensive care.  (The  Congressional Budget Office   scored Section 601(b)  as
having virtually no effect on the  federal budget , but partly
because the office understandably struggles with evaluating the
effects of provisions that are designed to further broaden
structural changes.)  At a time when politics in the U.S. are hyperpolarized, the
Section 601(b)s of this world are few and far between. Yes,
there’s much more we could be doing to limit cost growth, to
continue the low growth rates we’ve seen over the past few
years. But when big changes aren’t possible, let’s celebrate the
baby steps.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 