-- Sony Mobile Says Closer Ties With Parent Help Win Market Share
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-01-08T08:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/sony-mobile-says-closer-ties-with-parent-help-win-market-share.html
Sony Mobile Communications, the phone
arm of Japan’s largest electronics company, said closer ties
with its parent following a buy-out last year are helping it
create new products and win market share.  The unit developed technology that lets its devices connect
with other  Sony Corp. (6758)  products including TVs and speakers after
a venture with Ericsson AB ended, Steve Walker, Sony Mobile’s
chief marketing officer, said in an interview in  Las Vegas 
yesterday. The division has also gained from tapping into the
group’s marketing budget, he said.  Sony is focusing more on smartphones after customers
shunned the lower-functionality devices it made with Ericsson in
favor of Apple Inc. iPhones and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Galaxy
devices. The push has helped Tokyo-based Sony boost its global
market share to at least 5 percent, Walker said, from 3.6
percent in the first quarter of last year.  “We want Sony to be famous for smartphones, which it
hasn’t been,” Walker said. “We really need to reinvent our
whole product portfolio.”  Kazuo Hirai, who took over as chief executive officer of
Sony last year, has also set a goal of returning the phone unit
to  profit . No target date has been set for this, Walker said.  Market Share  Sony’s share of the global market phone market began
rebounding last year helped by the release of its first Xperia
handsets. The company had a 4.7 percent share in the third
quarter, according to Bloomberg Industries data. Sony completed
the 1.05 billion euro ($1.4 billion) acquisition of  Ericsson (ERIC) ’s
50 percent stake in the unit, formerly called Sony Ericsson
Mobile Communications AB, in February 2012.  Walker reiterated Sony’s earlier target to boost smartphone
shipments 51 percent to 34 million units in the fiscal year
ending March 31. The company has previously said that it sold
8.8 million in the quarter ended Sept. 30.  Operating losses at the mobile phone unit may total 37.7
billion yen this fiscal year and 17.2 billion yen the next,
according to the average of three  analyst estimates  compiled by
 Bloomberg News  last month.  Sony yesterday released the Xperia Z, a water-resistant
handset with a 5-inch Full High-definition screen,  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM) ’s Snapdragon S4 processor and a 13-megapixel camera. The
company has signed deals to sell the device globally through
phone operators this quarter, Walker said without elaborating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 