-- Sorouh, Aldar Surge After Merger Deal Report: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-08T10:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/sorouh-aldar-surge-after-merger-deal-report-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH)  and  Aldar
Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  surged the most since 2005 after Reuters
reported that a final deal on a merger between the Abu Dhabi-
based property companies will be signed in the coming weeks.  Sorouh soared 14 percent, the biggest jump since Bloomberg
started tracking the shares in December 2005, to 1.58 dirhams at
the close in Abu Dhabi. Aldar, the biggest developer in the
United Arab Emirates capital, also rallied 14 percent, the most
since September 2005, to 1.59 dirhams. The  ADX Real Estate Index (ADRE) 
increased 13 percent, the most on record, helping lift the  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  0.6 percent. The stocks were the most traded by
volume on the Bloomberg GCC 200 Index as of 2:34 p.m. in Dubai.  The companies have reached an initial agreement on a
potential merger, Reuters reported, citing three unidentified
people familiar with the matter. The final deal will involve a
share swap with no cash payment, two of the people were cited as
saying. Aldar’s Deputy Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Al Mubarak declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  “The merger will create one of the largest real estate
developers in the country and will enjoy the support of the Abu
Dhabi government, either through getting new projects or getting
financing,” Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based
brokerage Al Fajr Securities LLC, said by e-mail. “Investors
are optimistic about the merger, and hope that 2013 will mark a
turnaround in Abu Dhabi’s real estate market.”  Shares Rally  The developers, which have played an integral part in Abu
Dhabi’s drive to turn itself into a tourism and business hub,
said in March they are studying a possible merger with the
“blessing” of the emirate’s government. Abu Dhabi bailed out
Aldar in 2011 after house prices in the emirate slumped about 50
percent in the aftermath of the 2008 global credit crisis.  Shares of Sorouh rallied 47 percent in 2012 and Aldar’s
surged 38 percent, outpacing the Abu Dhabi gauge’s 9.5 percent
gain, as investors anticipated news on the merger.  Aldar’s 2012 profit probably doubled to 1.31 billion
dirhams ($357 million), according to the average estimate of six
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sorouh may post a 70  percent
advance  in net income for the year, the median estimate of four
analysts shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  