-- Sound Harbor Partners Hires Ex-Blackstone CLO Head Criares
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-01-08T20:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/sound-harbor-partners-hires-ex-blackstone-clo-head-criares-1-.html
Sound Harbor Partners LLC hired Dean Criares, former senior managing director at  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
to head the firm’s new loan-fund business.  Criares, 49, oversees the investment process, strategy and
direction of the unit, and is based in New York, according to
Michael Zupon, Sound Harbor co-founder.  Sound Harbor took over management of more than $1 billion
of collateralized loan obligation contracts from Aladdin Capital
Holdings LLC last year, entering a market that saw volume more
than quadruple from 2011. At least 12 new managers issued CLOs
for the first time in 2012, according to Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc data. The funds, which back mergers and leveraged
buyouts, attracted investors with better yields than similar-
rated debt.  “Dean and I have known each other for 25 years and worked
together closely at CIBC prior to his starting Blackstone’s CLO
business,” Zupon said in a telephone interview. “He is
extremely well known and well regarded in the market, and brings
enormous talent and investment acumen to the firm.”  Sound Harbor completed its acquisition of CLO management
contracts from Aladdin on Dec. 31. The funds are overseen by
portfolio managers William Lutkins and Thomas “Ned” Bancroft.  Sound Harbor was started in 2009 by Zupon,  Carlyle Group
LP (CG) ’s former U.S. leveraged-finance division head, and Michael
Cerminaro, a former managing director at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   CLO Prices  The New York-based firm makes $10 million to $50 million in
individual investments in middle-market businesses, according to
its website.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  Last year $52.2 billion of CLOs backed by widely syndicated
loans were issued, compared with $91.1 billion at the peak of
the market in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
Morgan Stanley.  The price of AAA CLO debt rose 5.7 percent in 2012. Prices
improved to 97 cents on the dollar Nov. 29, the highest level
since November 2007, according to Morgan Stanley data.  The highest-rated portions of CLOs were paying a rate of
140 basis points more than the London interbank offered rate
Nov. 8, compared with 26 basis points for similarly-rated
credit-card debt, according to Morgan Stanley data.  Libor is a rate at which banks say they can borrow in
dollars from each other. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  