-- Statoil, Partners to Invest $10.2 Billion at Hansteen, Pipeline
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-01-08T16:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/statoil-partners-to-invest-10-2-billion-at-hansteen-pipeline.html
Statoil ASA (STL) , which operates about 80
percent of Norway’s oil and gas production, will invest 57
billion kroner ($10.2 billion) with its partners to develop the
Aasta Hansteen gas field and build a  Norwegian Sea  pipeline.  The Stavanger-based company and partners,  OMV AG (OMV)  and
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , will invest 32 billion kroner in the field
development, Statoil said in a statement today. The company and
an expanded list of partners will also spend 25 billion kroner
on a new pipeline, the deepest ever link, from Aasta Hansteen to
the Nyhamna gas processing plant.  The field “will be the first deep-water development in the
Norwegian Sea,” said Oeystein Michelsen, executive vice
president for development and production  Norway , “This opens
for the tie-in of existing and new discoveries. The development
may generate substantial ripple effects in the north.”  Aasta Hansteen, which includes the Haklang and Snefrid
South discoveries, holds recoverable volumes estimated at 47
billion standard cubic meters of gas. The field will be
developed at a depth of 1,300 meters (4,250 feet) and operated
by the world’s biggest Spar platform, which is supported by a
single vertical cylinder, according to Statoil.  The company plans to start production in third quarter of
2017 and reach a plateau of about 130,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day.  The planned pipeline, called Polarled, will connect Aasta
Hansteen to Royal Dutch Shell Plc.’s Nyhamna processing facility
480 kilometers away. Partners in the link, which will have a
capacity of 70 million cubic meters per day, also include Total
SA and GDF Suez SA.  Statoil in July awarded Technip SA a letter of intent for
the construction of the Spar platform hull. The contract value
was then estimated at 4 billion kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  