-- Police Stops in Bronx Violated Constitution, Judge Rules
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-01-08T23:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/stops-in-bronx-violated-u-s-constitution-judge-rules.html
A federal judge blocked the  New York
City Police Department  from making unlawful stops outside
privately owned buildings in the Bronx, ruling the department’s
“stop and frisk” practices violate the U.S. Constitution.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in  Manhattan  today
ordered the NYPD to stop making so-called “trespass stops”
outside buildings enrolled in the city’s Trespass Affidavit
Program, or TAP, without reasonable suspicion that the person
stopped is on the property illegally.  The ruling was in one of three federal court challenges to
NYPD “stop and frisk” practices. It followed a hearing held by
Scheindlin from Oct. 15 to Nov. 7 in a suit filed last year by a
group of black and Latino residents.  “For those of us who do not fear being stopped as we
approach or leave our own homes or those of our friends and
families, it is difficult to believe that residents of one of
our boroughs live under such a threat,” Scheindlin wrote in a
149-page opinion. “In light of the evidence presented at the
hearing, however, I am compelled to conclude that this is the
case.”  Trespass Program  TAP, formerly called “Operation Clean Halls,” permits the
police to patrol participating buildings. Scheindlin found that
officers were violating the civil liberties of residents and
visitors by stopping, frisking and questioning them without
sufficient cause to believe they were trespassing.  “Today’s decision unnecessarily interferes with the
department’s efforts to use all of the crime-fighting tools
necessary to keep Clean Halls buildings safe and secure,”
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said today in a statement. The
program is intended to provide extra security for apartment
buildings whose landlords request it, he said.  Scheindlin said she will hold a hearing to determine
whether she will also order the department to adopt a written
policy for stopping people outside TAP buildings on suspicion of
trespass, to impose stricter supervision of trespass stops and
to order new training for officers.  Other Cases  Today’s ruling comes in what Scheindlin said is the most
narrow of the three court challenges to stop-and-frisk policies
in  New York . A suit challenging all such police stops citywide
is scheduled for trial March 11. Another seeks to end alleged
rights violations in trespass stops in public housing.  “Today’s decision is a major step toward dismantling the
NYPD’s stop-and-frisk regime,” Donna Lieberman, executive
director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, said today in a
statement. “Operation Clean Halls has placed  New Yorkers ,
mostly black and Latino, under siege in their own homes in
thousands of apartment buildings. This aggressive assault on
people’s constitutional rights must be stopped.”  The case is Ligon v. City of New York, 12-cv-2274, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 