-- SunCal Buys Texas Home Lots in $100 Million of Land Deals
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-01-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/suncal-buys-texas-home-lots-in-100-million-of-land-deals.html
SunCal Cos., a U.S. housing developer
that survived the collapse of its biggest partner, Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., bought a 3,000-home site near Austin,
 Texas , as demand for lots heats up amid rising construction.  The closely held company paid $15 million for the lots,
bringing land purchases in the past 12 months to about $100
million, according to Brad Shuckhart, vice president of land
acquisition. In a deal announced last month,  Irvine , California-
based SunCal bought 208 acres (84 hectares) near Las Vegas for
$19.8 million.  “We adopted the philosophy that now is the time to buy
land -- a generational opportunity to acquire,” Shuckhart said
in a telephone interview. “We think we’re on the precipice of a
real recovery and a pickup in demand for new homes.”  Prices of U.S. housing-development sites rose 12 percent to
18 percent last year, with the appreciation pace accelerating in
the second half of 2012, according to a Jan. 3 report by Jack Micenko, a New York-based analyst with Susquehanna International
Group LLP. Six homebuilders he covers, including  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) 
and  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , reported losses totaling $19.3 billion related
to land purchases during the housing bubble, Micenko said.  “In many cases, three times the number of buyers are
showing up for land sales today compared to a year ago,” he
said in the note.  Sales of new U.S. homes are picking up after a five-year
slump amid low  mortgage rates  and a tightening supply of
existing properties. Demand is also increasing as the formation
of new households drives down vacancies for both  rentals  and
 owner-occupied  residences.  Housing Starts  Housing  starts , including single- and multifamily units,
are expected to increase 24 percent this year to 967,000, the
median estimate of 17 economists and analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . Purchases of new single-family  homes  will climb
23 percent to 448,000, according to the survey.  Landowners have been selling to beat potential tax-code
changes and cash in on price appreciation, said Greg Vogel,
chief executive officer of Land Advisors Organization, a
brokerage based in Scottsdale,  Arizona .  More investors who bought lots at discounted prices after
the real estate crash, such as  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. and
 Barry Sternlicht ’s  Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD) , may soon be
unloading their properties, Vogel said in a telephone interview.  “The private-equity groups that acquired land in 2008 and
2009 are going to be sellers in 2013 and 2014,” he said.  ‘Slim Pickings’  GTIS Partners, a New York-based real estate investor, and
Scottsdale, Arizona-based Harvard Investments completed a deal
this month for 563 acres of unfinished lots in the Phoenix
suburb of Gilbert for $36.5 million, GTIS Chairman Tom Shapiro
said in a telephone interview yesterday. The price per acre is
less than half of what homebuilders, who can’t purchase on a
large scale, are paying, he said. Prices have jumped from the
bottom of the market, when no one was buying, Shapiro said.  “Three years ago, you could buy finished lots in good
locations for 50 cents of the infrastructure cost with no value
ascribed to the land,” he said. “That opportunity is slim
pickings today.”  SunCal, a partner with Lehman in about 20 California
developments, settled bankruptcy claims with the defunct
investment bank in October 2011. The company is developing seven
projects, including the two most recent purchases, where Lennar,
KB Home and NVR Inc. are among builders selling homes.  In the deal announced today, SunCal acquired the partially
completed ShadowGlen community in Manor, Texas, about 14 miles
(23 kilometers) east of Austin, the state capital, the company
said in a statement. ShadowGlen has 3,000 lots, about 700 of
which have homes that already sold.  Vegas Area  The company previously acquired 1,828 lots in the Park
Highlands master-planned community in North  Las Vegas ,  Nevada ,
according to a Dec. 21 statement.  The Las Vegas area -- which had the highest foreclosure
rate of any U.S. city for the 22 months through September 2011,
according to data provider RealtyTrac -- now faces a shortage of
lots for new homes, Shuckhart said.  “Our market research shows that in Las Vegas, unless new
lots are produced, there’s going to be a complete loss of that
inventory within the next two, two and a half years,” he said.
“Vegas is a highly constrained market from the land
perspective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  