-- Swap Traders Could Reduce Margin Under Proposed U.S. Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-01-08T20:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/swap-traders-close-to-winning-u-s-portfolio-collateral-offset.html
U.S. regulators plan to allow hedge
funds and other credit-swap traders to reduce the amount of
collateral needed to back transactions through the use of
accounts that offset different types of trades.  The Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission are close to allowing collateral
offsets for credit swaps that are tied to indexes and single
securities through a process known as portfolio margining.
Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange Inc., owner of the
largest clearinghouse for credit swaps, Citadel LLC and other
hedge and mutual funds and banks spent more than a year pushing
regulators to support the system for client trades.  “It’s cheaper to operate if you can cross-margin,”
 Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in
 New York , said in a telephone interview yesterday. He said the
rule could help encourage credit-swap trading, which has
declined since the onset of the 2008 credit crisis.  The regulation was  issued  by the SEC for comment on Dec. 14
and a companion measure could be approved by the CFTC as soon as
this week, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
process.  Dodd-Frank Act requirements that credit swaps be guaranteed
at clearinghouses are set to take effect mid-March. The central
counterparties stand between buyers and sellers and accept
collateral to limit the risk from a trade default spreading
throughout the financial system.  Dodd-Frank Rules  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul, was enacted
in 2010 after largely unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis and led to the U.S. rescue of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  The law calls for most swaps to be
guaranteed at clearinghouses including those owned by ICE,  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  and LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.  The CFTC is preparing to vote in a private process as early
as this week to allow the system at ICE, according to the
person, who asked not to be named because the order hasn’t been
approved. Clients could save as much as 80 percent of the amount
of margin, also known as collateral, necessary to offset index
and single-name trades once they’re held in the same account,
 according  to ICE.  “If you can get some guys 80 percent and a bunch of others
20 or 30 it still winds up being worthwhile,” Repetto said.  The SEC released an order on Dec. 14 allowing the
commingling and portfolio margining of credit swaps guaranteed
at clearinghouses. The agency, which sought comment on the
order, would allow dealers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  that are members of a clearinghouse to
allow the offsets for their clients.  ‘Accurate Measure’  “Portfolio margining may help to alleviate excessive
margin calls, improve cash flows and liquidity and reduce
volatility,” the SEC said in  the order . The agency said it
would also, “promote a more accurate measure of the risk of the
total position of the customer based on off-setting positions.”  The SEC order sets requirements on dealers that are
registered with both agencies, including minimum margin levels
for their clients’ trades in portfolio accounts. The collateral
amount must be at least the minimum required by the SEC’s own
rules.  Citadel, the Chicago-based hedge fund founded by  Ken Griffin , and ICE told regulators starting in December 2011 that
traditional buyers of credit swaps would be hurt without
portfolio margining. Without the approval, only dealers would be
able to offset their trades on a portfolio basis.  ‘Further Entrenching’  The difference holds the potential for “further
entrenching the dominant position of a select number of swap
dealers in the CDS marketplace,” Adam Cooper, Citadel’s chief
legal officer, said in a Dec. 22, 2011,  letter  to the CFTC.  Banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Goldman Sachs
and  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN)  also supported portfolio margining for
their credit swap clients,  according to  a Dec. 22, 2011, letter
to the CFTC.  The change will encourage trading because clients will have
greater ability to clear both types of credit-swaps, said
Supurna VedBrat, co-head of market structure and electronic
trading at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager.
Credit swaps tied to single securities will be offered for
client clearing, VedBrat said in a telephone interview today.  “It becomes a much more margin efficient model from a
trading perspective and a necessary step for clients to begin
clearing credit products,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  