-- Sweetened Drinks Linked to Depression in U.S. Soda Study
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-01-08T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/sweetened-drinks-linked-to-depression-in-u-s-soda-study.html
Drinking more than four sweetened
beverages a day, especially diet soda, doesn’t appear to be good
for one’s mood, a study by the U.S. National Institutes of
Health found.  In a study of more than 200,000 older adults, those who
drank more than four cans of soda a day had a 30 percent greater
risk of depression than those who consumed none. The same amount
of fruit punch was tied to a 38 percent higher risk, according
to research released today by the American Academy of Neurology.
The risk was even greater for people who consumed diet drinks,
whether soda, punch or iced tea.  The study, one of the first to look at sweetened beverages
and depression, doesn’t explain the connection, so it’s still
unknown how the drinks may be tied to mental health, said
Honglei Chen, one of the study’s researchers. One theory is that
the drinks have been linked to diabetes and obesity, which in
turn can lead to the mood disorder, he said.  “Although our results are preliminary, consumption of
sweetened beverages should be reduced as they have been linked
to other adverse health outcomes,” said Chen, an investigator
in the Epidemiology Branch of the National Institute of
Environmental Health Sciences in Research Triangle Park, North
Carolina, part of the NIH, in a Jan. 7 e-mail.  More research is needed to confirm the findings, Chen said.
Today’s results will be presented at the American Academy of
Neurology’s  annual meeting  in San Diego in March.  Depression Diagnoses  Researchers in the study looked at 263,925 U.S. adults ages
50 to 71. They assessed the types of beverages they consumed in
1995 to 1996. About 10 years later, the participants were asked
if they had been diagnosed with depression.  About 350 million people worldwide suffer from depression,
according to the World Health Organization. In the U.S., the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimate that
one in 10 adults report having the disorder.  The researchers didn’t examine specific chemicals in the
drinks like artificial sweeteners to determine which ingredients
in the beverages may trigger the disease,  Chen  said.  One beverage, though, had an opposite effect. Coffee was
found to lessen a person’s chance of developing the mood
disorder.  People who drank four cups of coffee each day had about a
10 percent lower risk of developing depression than those who
didn’t consume coffee, the research found. Chen said coffee
contains large amounts of caffeine, which is a brain stimulant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  