-- U.K. Stocks Retreat; Vodafone Gains on Verizon Comments
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-01-08T16:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-vodafone-gains-on-verizon.html
U.K. stocks  dropped for a second day
as investors awaited the start of the U.S. earnings season and
concern mounted that the recent rally by shares has overshot the
outlook for corporate profit.  African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG)  plunged the most on record after
its biggest shareholder stopped talks to sell the business to
China National Gold Group Corp.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  rose 1.7
percent after a report that  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  may buy
the U.K. operator’s stake in  Verizon Wireless .  Anglo American
Plc (AAL)  added 1.4 percent after the mining company appointed a new
chief executive officer.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 10.95 points, or 0.2 percent, to
6,053.63 at the close in London, erasing an earlier gain of as
much as 0.4 percent. The gauge jumped 2.8 percent last week,
reaching its highest level since February 2011, as the U.S.
Congress agreed on a compromise budget, avoiding automatic
deficit-reduction measures. The broader FTSE All-Share Index
fell 0.3 percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.2 percent.  “Macro risks are quite significant, and there are big
divergences in performances, so this is not a very good
moment,” said Roberto Magnatantini, who helps manage 27 billion
Swiss francs ($29 billion) at Banque SYZ & Co. SA in Geneva. “I
am a little more prudent now than I was two or three months ago,
while not being overall defensive. We’ve had that classical
climbing over the wall of worries behavior in the market, but I
think now we will have some correction with the realities.”  FTSE 100 companies are trading at 15.6 times reported
earnings, their highest valuation since December 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  German Exports  In Germany,  exports  declined in November more than
economists had forecast. Exports adjusted for working days and
seasonal changes fell 3.4 percent from October, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists had
forecast a 0.5 percent drop, according to the  median of nine
estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey.  African Barrick Gold plunged 21 percent to 352.1 pence, the
biggest decline since the company’s initial public offering in
March 2010.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s biggest producer of
the precious metal, ended talks to sell its African unit to the
Chinese state-owned enterprise.  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  dropped 3.4 percent to 276.8 pence as Morgan
Stanley cut its recommendation on the stock to underweight, the
equivalent of sell, from equal weight. The company’s free cash
flow relative to its earnings per share will remain weak this
year, analysts led by Jamie Rollo wrote in a note.  Recruitment Companies  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  and  Hays Plc (HAS)  slid 3.8
percent to 398.8 pence and 1.5 percent to 84.55 pence,
respectively. The U.K. recruitment companies retreated as
smaller rival Robert Walters Plc said the market remains
challenging and may not improve in 2013.  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  fell 7.7 percent to 108.1 pence, its largest
slump in almost four years. The U.K.’s second-largest
department-store chain cut its  forecast  for full-year margin
growth after increasing promotions to attract shoppers.  Vodafone advanced 1.7 percent to 162.4 pence, the highest
price in three weeks. Verizon Chief Executive Officer Lowell McAdam told the Wall Street Journal that it may buy Vodafone’s
holding in the joint venture. The world’s second-largest mobile-
phone operator owns 45 percent of Verizon Wireless.  Anglo American rose 1.4 percent to 2,028 pence after
appointing  Mark Cutifani  to replace  Cynthia Carroll  as chief
executive officer of the world’s largest platinum producer from
April 3. The shares plunged 20 percent in 2012.  Cutifani resigned as CEO of AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., the
Johannesburg-based company said today in a statement.  Alcoa Inc. unofficially kicks off the U.S. earnings season
today when the aluminum producer publishes its quarterly results
after the market closes.  The number of shares changing hands in FTSE 100 companies
today was 29 percent greater than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  