-- U.K. Stores Set for Tough 2013 After ‘Underwhelming’ Holiday
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-08T07:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/u-k-retailers-set-for-tough-2013-after-underwhelming-holiday.html
Christmas was “underwhelming” for
U.K. retailers with sales barely rising and the outlook for 2013
is little better, according to the  British Retail Consortium .  Sales at stores open at least a year gained 0.3 percent in
December from a year earlier, the worst performance since 2010,
when snowy conditions deterred shoppers, the lobby group said
today in a statement. Total revenue climbed 1.5 percent, but
would have fallen excluding buoyant online revenue, BRC Director
General Helen Dickinson said. Web sales climbed 18 percent.  Britons held off making holiday purchases until the last
minute in order to find discounts, and overall shopper numbers
were “disappointingly low,” the BRC said. U.K.  consumer
confidence  fell in December as optimism about the outlook for
the economy plunged, according to GfK NOP Ltd., while food and
fuel inflation is weighing on household budgets.  “The sheer endurance test of a marginal, if any, growth
environment is making it very, very difficult for retailers,”
Dickinson said. The BRC expects “more of the same” in 2013.  Some retailers had a better Christmas than others, the BRC
said. John Lewis Partnership Plc said last week that department-
store sales rose 15 percent over the Christmas season. Smaller
competitor  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  today reported a 2.9 percent gain in
18-week same-store revenue, though lowered its margin forecast
after it stepped up discounting.  Holiday Discounting  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc yesterday reported a
worsening sales decline as the growth of discounters such as
Aldi and the lack of an online offering led to an erosion of the
grocer’s market share.  The amount of holiday discounting was the same as the prior
year, though the depth of promotions was shallower as retailers
planned more cautiously and had less inventory, the BRC said.  The Internet accounted for about 20 percent of retail sales
last month, up from a typical level of about 12 percent, as
shoppers bought gifts for overseas relatives, and took advantage
of improved delivery times and in-store collection, the BRC
said. Still, that wasn’t enough to offset reduced shopper
numbers in all but the final week of the month, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  