-- U.S. Agency Advised to Limit Patent-Based Import Bans
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-01-08T19:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/u-s-agency-advised-to-limit-patent-based-import-bans.html
Banning imports of products based on
their use of patents in industry standards may not be in the
public interest, President  Barack Obama ’s administration said in
a policy paper today.  The paper, released by the  Justice Department  and U.S.
Patent and  Trademark Office , says that, in some instances,
patent owners shouldn’t be allowed to block sales or imports of
products based on the use of standards that help products from
different manufacturers work together. The U.S. Federal Trade
Commission, which reached a consent agreement with  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
last week restricting its use of standard-essential patents, has
taken a similar position.  The paper puts added pressure on the U.S. International
Trade Commission, which is considering the issue as part of a
request by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  to halt imports of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
products made in  Asia . A final decision is expected Feb. 6.  The ITC’s approach “will be important to the continued
vitality of the voluntary consensus standards-setting process
and thus to competitive conditions and consumers in the  United
States ,” the two agencies wrote, without citing specific cases.  The agencies, in a joint policy paper,  said  that, while
patent owners have the right to exclude others from using their
inventions, the public benefit of allowing that is limited when
it comes to so-called standard-essential patents.  The Washington-based trade commission is investigating
other complaints filed by owners of standard-essential patents,
including one by Google’s Motorola Mobility unit against
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , an  InterDigital Inc. (IDCC)  case against Huawei
Technologies Co. and one filed by  Ericsson AB (ERIC)  against Samsung.  Setting Standards  Companies participate in groups to establish technical
specifications that can be used across platforms for things like
how video images are transmitted or what type of plug is used
for phone chargers. Those who establish the standards pledge to
license any relevant patents on fair, reasonable and non-
discriminatory terms, or FRAND.  Apple and Microsoft, which are involved in patent fights
with Motorola Mobility, have said they would never seek to block
use of their patented inventions when it applies to such
industry standards. Google and Samsung maintain they have the
right to seek such orders in instances where a licensing
agreement can’t be reached.  The FTC agreement with Google limits the ability of the
 Mountain View , California-based company to ban competitors’
products unless it first takes steps to reach licensing
agreements. It does allow Google to seek such orders in response
to patent suits filed against it by competitors.  ‘Two Wrongs’  “Google should not be permitted to abandon its FRAND
commitment just because another firm is suing for an injunction
on a standard-essential patent,” David Heiner, Microsoft’s
deputy general counsel, said in a statement. “Two wrongs don’t
make a right.”  Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for Google, said the company
had no comment. Officials with Samsung and Apple didn’t
immediately return messages seeking comment.  The Justice Department and patent office laid out
guidelines that should be met before an exclusion order is
granted by the trade commission. The agencies said the standard
also should apply in district court lawsuits. Judges in Seattle
and  Chicago  have already said Motorola Mobility isn’t entitled
to orders halting U.S. sales of products based on the use of
standard-essential patents.  Trade Practices  The ITC’s job is to protect U.S. markets against unfair
trade practices. It must consider the impact of import bans on
the competitive conditions in the U.S. When a company accused of
infringing a patent hasn’t refused to license the standard-
essential patents, “the public interest may preclude the
issuance of an exclusion order,” the two agencies said.  In some instances, the commission could delay the effective
date of an import ban to give licensing negotiations between the
parties another chance, they said.  Still, they said, the decision “should be made against the
backdrop of promoting both appropriate compensation to patent
holders and strong incentives for innovators to participate in
standard-setting activities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  