-- Chavez Delays Oath as Opponents Say He Should Cede Power
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-01-09T19:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/hugo-chavez-won-t-be-sworn-in-jan-10-for-new-venezuela-term.html
Ailing Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  won’t be sworn in for a new term tomorrow, plunging the
nation into an institutional crisis as the opposition called for
the self-declared socialist to cede power temporarily as he
recovers from cancer surgery in Cuba.  Vice President  Nicolas Maduro , in a letter sent to
lawmakers last night, said Chavez has requested more time to
recover from cancer surgery in Cuba and won’t attend a scheduled
Jan. 10 inauguration. Instead, the Supreme Court will administer
the oath at a “later date” as allowed by the charter in
exceptional circumstances, according to the letter.  Chavez’s fragile health has heightened uncertainty in  South
America ’s largest oil producer, with the opposition claiming
National Assembly head  Diosdado Cabello  should act as caretaker
president while Chavez recuperates. The Supreme Court today
backed the government’s position, saying the nation’s charter
allows for Chavez to postpone his swearing-in and that he and
Vice President Nicolas Maduro can continue exercising power even
if he doesn’t assume a new term on the date specified by the
constitution.  “Who’s governing Venezuela?,” Julio Borges, head of the
Justice First party, asked in a heated parliamentary debate
yesterday in which he and other opposition deputies accused the
government of riding roughshod over the nation’s laws. That
prompted Cabello to lead the government majority in shouting
“Chavez, Chavez, Chavez” and waving pocket copies of the
constitution in response.  “With these chants you want to cover up the fact that you
are violating the constitution,” Borges responded.  ‘Constitutional Cliff’  Venezuelan bonds fell for a fourth day as the country edges
toward what Barclays Plc called a “constitutional cliff.” The
yield on the country’s benchmark 9.25 percent bond due 2027 has
tumbled 4.38 cents since Dec. 3 to 99.76 cents on the dollar at
2:13 p.m. in Caracas, cutting into a 46 percent rally over the
past year for Venezuelan debt as investors boosted bets the
Chavez’s battle with cancer will lead to a leadership change.  As Chavez, 58, struggles to recover in a Havana hospital
from a respiratory infection prompted by a fourth cancer-related
surgery since 2011, government officials and opposition leaders
yesterday intensified their attacks.  While Cabello accused the opposition of plotting a repeat
of the 2002 military coup that briefly ousted Chavez, former
presidential candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski said the
government was violating Venezuela’s constitution and
international commitments that could lead to “anarchy”.  “This isn’t a monarchy, and we aren’t in Cuba,” Capriles,
40, said during a news conference in Caracas in which he held
out the prospect of an army uprising if the constitution is
breached.  Risk of Anarchy  Capriles appealed to the  Supreme Court  to resolve the
impasse, arguing that Chavez’s current term constitutionally
ends Jan. 10 and Maduro can’t legitimately run the government on
his behalf after that date as the government intends.  “A wrong decision by the Supreme Court, far from
guaranteeing peace and tranquility, could lead to anarchy
instead,” Capriles said.  Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said this week that
Chavez’s condition remains stable after the government reported
he had trouble breathing as a result of a respiratory infection.
He didn’t provide additional details.  Capriles, who lost to Chavez in October by 11 percentage
points, said the opposition may appeal to international
tribunals and regional powers such as  Brazil  to resolve the
political crisis. He called on leaders in  Latin America  not to
take sides in the dispute and instead insist that Venezuelan law
be respected.  U.S., Brazil  Bolivian President  Evo Morales  and Uruguay’s Jose Mujica
are among regional allies expected to gather in Caracas Jan. 10
for a government-sponsored rally. State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  reiterated yesterday that issues of succession
in Venezuela need to be resolved domestically in a transparent
manner involving all political actors. The top foreign policy
aide to Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  said he sees no
danger of the constitutional order being ruptured.  Chavez hasn’t been seen publicly in a month, and his
prolonged absence has heightened tensions in a country already
battered by a currency crisis, 20 percent  inflation  and a
shortage of basic goods such as toilet paper and corn flour.  The government yesterday ordered security forces to step up
inspections of supermarkets and producers to ensure food
supplies and prevent hoarding. Authorities this week confiscated
9,000 tons of sugar, part of which was imported by a supplier to
the local unit of  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , state news agency AVN said.  In downtown Caracas, some Chavez supporters expressed
concern that the political fight could lead to violence in the
coming days.  “Honestly, I’m confused,” Alexaida Ponce, a 31-year-old
homemaker who said she voted for Chavez, said at Plaza Bolivar.
“There could be a problem at any moment between Chavistas and
the opposition due to protests.”  Carmen Montilla, a 40-year-old sales clerk at a cosmetics
store in Caracas who supports the opposition said she feared the
crisis is like “ a time bomb waiting to explode.”  “Hopefully the dust will settle in our direction, but we
don’t know what will happen,” Montilla said. “We’re in the
middle of a dark cloud.”  Amid the mounting uncertainty, Cabello was defiant.  Chavez “can be away as long as he wants,” he told
lawmakers last night, shrugging off suggestions that the
president’s failure to be sworn in was opening a political void
in the country he’s governed since 1999.  “There’s no power vacuum,” Cabello said. “In  Venezuela ,
there’s a vacuum of the opposition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in Caracas at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  