-- Ukrainian Winter Crops Seen by Oil World Facing Frost Threat
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-01-08T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/ukrainian-winter-crops-seen-by-oil-world-facing-frost-threat.html
Winter wheat and rapeseed  crops  in
 Ukraine  are vulnerable to frost damage because of recent mild
temperatures and lack of protective snow cover, Oil World said.  Southern and eastern regions, Ukraine’s main growing areas
for wheat and rapeseed, face “the risk of sizable winter-
killing if severe frosts arrive in coming weeks,” the
researcher said in an e-mailed report today. The country was the
biggest  wheat  supplier and second-largest  rapeseed  shipper to
the European Union in the 2011-12 season, European Commission
data show. Ukraine’s winter crops are sown starting in August,
lie dormant in cold-weather months and are harvested in July.  “Even though weather conditions have been favorable for
winter wheat and rapeseed so far this season, allowing both
crops to develop sufficiently and enhancing their frost-
resistant qualities, the current situation needs to be monitored
closely,” Hamburg-based Oil World said. “It makes winter crops
vulnerable to unfavorable weather events.”  Ukraine’s total grain and flour exports rose to a record
3.1 million metric tons in November, bringing deliveries since
July to 11.4 million tons, up 81 percent from a year earlier,
when quotas restricted shipments, Oil World said. Speculation
that Ukraine would curb wheat exports again after stockpiles
dwindled amid dry weather helped milling-wheat futures traded on
NYSE Liffe in Paris to jump 27 percent last year.  Ukraine shipped an additional 2.3 million tons of grain in
the first 27 days of December, including 1.8 million tons of
corn, 300,000 tons of wheat and 100,000 tons of barley, Oil
World said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  