-- Tullow Declines After Investec Says Sell Shares on Delays
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-01-08T17:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/tullow-falls-after-investec-says-sell-shares-on-project-delays.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  fell the most in four
weeks in  London  after Investec Bank Plc recommended investors
sell the shares because of project delays in Uganda and  Ghana .  Tullow slid 3.6 percent to 1,225 pence in the steepest one-
day decline since Dec. 11. The stock lost 10 percent last year.  Peak production at Tullow’s Jubilee field in Ghana has been
delayed for more than a year. The lack of an agreement with the
government of Uganda over a plan to develop a refinery and
export-pipeline have held up the start of output from the East
African nation.  “The delays across the production portfolio will in our
view put upward pressure on Tullow’s net debt and highlight the
risk of further slippage,” Brian Gallagher, a London-based
analyst at Investec, wrote in a report. He cut his
recommendation on the stock to sell from hold and reduced the
share-price forecast to 1,000 pence from 1,399 pence.  “We estimate a current capital expenditure bill in excess
of $18 billion out to 2020,” Gallagher wrote. “As a result,
progress on disposals at Tweneboa-Enyenra-Ntomme (TEN) and
possibly  Uganda  is required to help meet” funding needs.  Tullow is expected to produce 70,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day this year, down from its guidance of 95,000
barrels, after asset sales in the  North Sea  and Asia, Anish
Kapadia, an analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in London,
wrote in an e-mailed report. He reiterated his Trim
recommendation on Tullow shares.  “The main issue for Tullow now, given its size, is that it
is increasingly difficult for exploration to be impactful,”
Kapadia wrote. “We believe that execution risk is high for
development already seen with the Jubilee issues last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  