-- UN Unable to Reach 1 Million Syrians in Need of Food Aid
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 2013-01-08T18:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/un-unable-to-reach-1-million-syrians-in-need-of-food-aid.html
The  World Food Programme  is unable to
reach about 1 million Syrians in need of food in some of the
regions hardest hit by the civil war.  The United Nations agency said it is providing food
assistance to about 1.5 million people in Syria, 85 percent of
them internally displaced, every month. The Syrian Arab Red
Crescent asked in October for an increase in the number of
beneficiaries to 2.5 million, the agency said.  “WFP is unable to further scale-up assistance due to the
lack of implementing partners on the ground and challenges
reaching some of the country’s hardest-hit areas,” spokesperson
Elisabeth Byrs said in an e-mailed statement today. “Our main
partner, the Red Crescent, is overstretched and has no more
capacity to expand further.”  The Syrian conflict, which began with peaceful protests in
March 2011, has become a civil war that has killed more than
60,000 people, according to UN estimates. The number of Syrians
urgently needing humanitarian aid quadrupled to 4 million
between March and December, the world body said last month.  Last month, the WFP said it managed for the first time in
many months to distribute assistance to hard-to-reach areas near
the Turkish border, including Ras el Ain and Tal Abyad,
according to the statement. A bread crisis has hit the country
amid a lack of security and a shortage of fuel for bakeries, the
statement added.  At least 101 people were killed today, the opposition Local
Coordination Committees said in an e-mail.  Plan Rejected  Syria ’s President Bashar al-Assad offered a plan to end the
fighting in a Jan. 6 speech, one that was quickly rejected by
the opposition and Western governments.  While he said he would accept a conditional cease-fire and
a new constitution, he portrayed the unrest as a fight against
Islamic “terrorists” seeking to seize control at the behest of
foreign powers.  The Syrian Cabinet is meeting to put in place a mechanism
to implement Assad’s plan, Syria’s Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi told reporters in Damascus today. His remarks were
carried by state-run Syrian TV.  He said a committee will be formed to contact political and
nationalist figures and groups ahead of a national dialogue
conference, the station said.  “I was shocked by this speech, it’s neither logical nor
acceptable after two years of suffering endured by the Syrian
people,” Qatari Prime Minister Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani said
in an interview with  Egypt ’s state-run Ahram Gate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  