-- Hungary Industry Output Fell Most in 3 Years in November
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-01-08T09:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/hungary-industry-output-fell-most-in-3-years-in-november.html
Hungary ’s  industrial output  plummeted
the most in three years in November, exceeding economists’
forecasts and signaling the nation’s recession probably extended
into the fourth quarter.  Production fell a workday-adjusted 6.9 percent in November
from a year earlier, the steepest decline since the same month
in 2009, and declined 0.1 percent from October, the statistics
office in Budapest said today. Economists had predicted a 3.5
percent drop, according to the median of 10 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  “This is definitely a negative surprise,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based analyst at Erste Group Bank AG,
said by phone. “Industrial exports and retail trade are both
underperforming and the fourth quarter isn’t looking pretty.”  Hungary is battling its second  recession  in four years as
trade and banking links with the slumping euro area drag down
growth. The economy shrank for a third consecutive quarter in
the July-September period as measures to cut the budget  deficit 
to avoid a freeze of European Union funding damped consumption
and hurt confidence.  Forint Reaction  The forint erased gains earlier today and was little
changed at 291.6 per euro by 9:18 a.m. in Budapest. The currency
rose 9.2 percent last year, the most in the world after the
Polish zloty, as investors bet that an aid deal with the
 International Monetary Fund  was close and as Hungary profited
from liquidity-boosting measures in the euro area and the U.S.  The economy shrank 0.2 percent in July-September from the
previous three months and fell 1.5 percent from a year earlier.  Car production was the only area posting growth in
November, statistician Miklos Schindele told reporters. The base
effect, after growth of 3.5 percent in November 2011, also
affected the year-on-year data, he said.  Talks with the IMF and the EU on aid of about 15 billion
euros ($19.7 billion), which Hungary originally requested in
November 2011, stalled amid a disagreement over the government’s
fiscal policies.  Special Levies  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has relied on new taxes,
including special levies on the banking and telecommunications
industries, to keep the budget shortfall below 3 percent of
economic output and avoid losing EU development funds.  The country may exit the bloc’s excessive-deficit
procedure, easing fiscal pressure on the government, which may
make room for economic stimulus, Daniel Gyuris, a deputy chief
executive officer at OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender,
said in an interview with Index, published yesterday.  “Right now the deficit target is so important that it
overrides everything, it’s not possible to grow like this,”
Gyuris said, according to the news website. “This squeeze may
ease next year and may provide new opportunities.”  The situation may allow for a reduction next year in the
bank tax, the highest in the EU, by the amount banks provide in
loans, which would compensate the budget by creating additional
revenue elsewhere after boosting growth, Index said, citing
Gyuris.  Hungary’s 100 billion-euro economy is the fourth-largest
among the EU’s eastern members after  Poland , the Czech Republic
and  Romania , according to Eurostat. The central bank reduced the
 benchmark   interest rate  for a fifth month to 5.75 percent in
December as policy makers grew more concerned about growth than
inflation.  The economy will expand 0.3 percent this year and 1.3
percent in 2014 after contracting a forecast 1.2 percent last
year, according to the the latest European Commission forecast
published on Nov. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  