-- Muni Cap May Force $150 Billion in Calls, Citigroup Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-01-08T16:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/muni-cap-may-force-150-billion-in-calls-citigroup-says.html
U.S. municipal issuers may have to
call as much as $150 billion of debt if President  Barack Obama ’s
plan to limit income-tax deductions is applied to interest on
the bonds, according to Citigroup Inc.  Mandatory redemption provisions of conduit and private-
activity securities could be triggered by a cap that affects the
deductibility of earnings for some bondholders, Citigroup muni
strategists including Vikram Rai said in a Jan. 4 report. That
would mean “substantial” losses for investors, or a “sharp
increase in borrowing costs” for localities, according to the
report.  “If even a single investor has to pay a single dollar in
taxes for bonds which were issued as tax-exempts,” the
mandatory redemptions can be triggered for all bondholders, Rai
said in an interview. “Such provisions could create big winners
and big losers on bonds trading well above or below par,” the
analysts said in the report.  The provisions are found mostly in tax-exempt securities
sold by governments for companies, hospitals and nonprofit
organizations. Industrial-development revenue bonds earned 12
percent in the past 12 months, the most among 11 investment-
grade revenue segments tracked by Barclays Plc.  Project Finance  Private-activity bonds are tax-free only if they finance
projects or loans that are considered worthy of the exemption,
Rai said. The debt represents about $200 billion of the $3.7
trillion muni market.  Obama, a Democrat, has sought to cap tax deductions at the
value they would have in the 28 percent bracket for top earners,
including interest on exempt debt. That limit wasn’t included in
the measure passed by Congress on New Year’s Day.  “We strongly suspect that the threat of such a cap will
recur at some point,” the Citigroup analysts said. “Market
participants will need to remain alert and involved in making
the case for the tax exemption.”  Though Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said further
tax-code changes won’t be part of the debate over increasing the
government’s debt limit, Obama has repeated his call for a
“balanced” approach to reducing deficits. Republicans may use
the debt ceiling to push for spending cuts, according to the
Citigroup report.  “The wealthiest individuals and the biggest corporations
shouldn’t be able to take advantage of loopholes and deductions
that aren’t available to most Americans,” Obama said in his
weekend radio remarks on Jan. 5.  $200 Billion  The muni market’s value may drop by $200 billion, or about
5 percent, under Obama’s deduction cap for top earners,
Citigroup said last month. Should it be imposed, investors would
demand at least a 0.6 percentage point increase in tax-exempt
yields to make up for reduced effective earnings, according to
 George Friedlander , the bank’s senior muni strategist.  Mandatory redemptions at par value would force losses on
bondholders who bought the debt for more than 100 cents on the
dollar. The forced calls may also produce fiscal strains as
states and cities recover from the longest recession since the
1930s.  “Some issuers could face cash-flow problems if suddenly,
for no fault on their part, they are forced to redeem bonds that
they hadn’t budgeted for,” Rai said. “This could have a
potentially destabilizing effect on the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  