-- Venezuela Opposition Warns of Anarchy If Chavez Misses Oath
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-01-08T19:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/venezuela-opposition-warns-of-anarchy-if-chavez-misses-oath.html
Venezuelan opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski said the country runs the risk of plunging
into “anarchy” if cancer-stricken President  Hugo Chavez  fails
to be sworn in this week for another term.  Capriles said that the government’s plan for Chavez to
remain in power past Jan. 10, when he’s scheduled to take the
oath before Congress, violates the constitution and several of
 Venezuela ’s international commitments. He said it’s up to the
Supreme Court to enforce the charter’s clauses requiring
National Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello  to take power on a
caretaker basis until Chavez recovers or an election is held.  “This isn’t a monarchy,” Capriles said during a news
conference in Caracas in which he held out the prospect of
street violence and an army uprising if the constitution is
breached. “A wrong decision by the  Supreme Court , far from
guaranteeing peace and tranquility, could lead to anarchy
instead.”  Chavez’s difficult recovery from cancer surgery in Cuba is
pushing Venezuela toward a constitutional showdown, with the
opposition balking at the government’s claim that this week’s
swearing-in ceremony is a mere formality that can be delayed.  Yields on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds due in
2027 rose 20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 9.26
percent at 2:37 p.m. in Caracas after the government said Chavez
would remain in power even if he can’t be sworn in for a new
term. The price fell 1.57 cents to 99.93 cents on the dollar
after reaching 104.14 cents Jan. 3, the highest since 2008.  Capriles, who lost to Chavez in October by 11 percentage
points, said that if the normally pro-government high court
doesn’t enforce the constitution, then the opposition will
appeal for mediation from regional powers such as Brazil and
 Colombia  as well as international tribunals. He called on
regional leaders not to side with a particular political party
and instead insist that the government respect Venezuelan law.  “We must avoid at all costs a conflict,” said Capriles,
adding that some members of the armed forces are prepared to
take action to resolve the impending political crisis. “I’ve
spoken with military officials who aren’t affiliated with a
political party and they said they will make sure the
constitution is enforced.”  Government Position  Cabello, sitting alongside Vice President  Nicolas Maduro ,
said yesterday that Chavez will remain in power even if he
doesn’t show up for the scheduled swearing-in ceremony, saying
he has no intention of assuming power on a caretaker basis while
the socialist leader recovers in a Havana hospital.  Such a move violates Venezuela’s constitution as well as
the  Inter-American Democratic Charter , to which the country is a
signatory, Ramon Guillermo Aveledo, head of the opposition
alliance, wrote in a letter today to the Washington-based
 Organization of American States .  Capriles said that Maduro’s term as vice president ceases
with the end of Chavez’s mandate on Jan. 10, meaning any
decisions he makes while running the government after that date
could be considered illegal.  Yesterday, Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said that
Chavez’s condition remains “stationary” after the government
reported he had trouble breathing as a result of a respiratory
infection following surgery a month ago in Cuba.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  