-- Virgin Atlantic Names U.S.-Born AMR Executive Kreeger as CEO
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-01-08T10:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/virgin-atlantic-appoints-american-air-executive-kreeger-as-ceo.html
Richard Branson ’s Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. appointed Craig Kreeger, a 53-year-old American, as
its chief executive officer, four weeks after  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL)  agreed to buy a 49 percent stake in the U.K. carrier.  Kreeger, who takes over on Feb. 1, joins from  American
Airlines , where he is a senior vice president, and replaces
Steve Ridgway, who said in September that he would step down
this year after running Virgin Atlantic since 2001.  The new CEO has the experience needed to tap opportunities
created by the Delta deal, which will see the carriers operate a
joint venture on 31 daily flights between the U.K. and North
America, billionaire Branson said in a statement. Born in Little
Rock, Arkansas, Kreeger has worked at  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  for 27 years in
commercial, financial and strategic roles, according to Virgin.  “Sometimes it can make sense to have a fresh pair of eyes
from the outside,” said  Douglas McNeill , an analyst at Charles
Stanley in London. “One of Virgin’s weaknesses is it’s quite
U.K.-dependent and perhaps this is an acknowledgement that they
need to be building up the brand in the U.S.”  Southern Stays  Julie Southern, 53, who was seen as an internal candidate
for the CEO post, will remain chief commercial officer.  “She will continue to spearhead the work to implement our
joint venture with Delta,” spokeswoman Anna Catchpole said.  Kreeger, who previously spent six years in London as AMR’s
senior vice president, international, will need to get the Delta
relationship “up and running as soon as possible,” as well
overseeing Virgin’s move into short-haul flights, McNeill said.  A graduate of the  University of California ,  San Diego , who
also holds an MBA from UCLA, Kreeger also worked on American
Airlines ventures with  British Airways (IAG) , Virgin’s chief rival at
London Heathrow. He is currently senior vice president,
customer, at Fort Worth-based AMR, a post he took on last year.  “He’ll be taking over at a time when the airline enters a
new phase, with the Delta deal to implement, the commencement of
short-haul competition for BA on U.K. domestic routes, as well
as the arrival of the 787 fleet,” current CEO Ridgway said of
his replacement, who he’ll assist until the end of February.  Ridgway has spent 23 years at Crawley, England-based
Virgin, during which time the carrier grew from two  Boeing Co. (BA) 
747s to a fleet of 40 long-haul aircraft that will include the
U.S. manufacturer’s latest 787 Dreamliner from summer, 2014.  Atlanta-based Delta agreed on Dec. 11 to buy the stake in
 Virgin Atlantic  held by Singapore Airlines Ltd. since 1999 for
$360 million, tapping the U.K. carrier’s strength at Heathrow
airport, Europe’s busiest hub.  AMR is currently reorganizing under bankruptcy protection
and expects to reach a decision within weeks on whether to merge
with US Airways Group Inc. or remain independent, CEO  Tom Horton 
said Jan. 3 in a memo to employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  