-- Vodafone Gains as Verizon Signals Mobile Buyout Possible
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-01-08T09:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/vodafone-gains-as-verizon-signals-mobile-buyout-possible.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  advanced after
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s chief executive officer was
reported to say that his company could buy the U.K. carrier’s
stake in their U.S. joint venture Verizon Wireless.  Vodafone rose 2.8 percent to 164.10 pence at 9:21 a.m. in
London, valuing the Newbury, England-based carrier at 80.5
billion pounds ($129.5 billion). The stock  declined  14 percent
last year. Verizon Communications rose 0.9 percent to $44.69 as
of yesterday’s close in  New York .  Vodafone CEO Vittorio Colao said in November that he
wouldn’t rule out a sale of the company’s 45 percent stake in
the U.S.’s largest wireless carrier. A sale would let the
British company exit a venture it doesn’t control and focus on
struggling regions such as Europe, Sanford C. Bernstein analyst
 Robin Bienenstock  said.  “It would be a good moment for Vodafone to sell,‘‘
Bienenstock said in a note to investors today. ‘‘In spite of
continued growth, we may be at a maximum value today given its
high multiples.’’  Verizon Communications CEO Lowell McAdam said his company
has the strength to buy Vodafone’s stake, the Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday. Verizon has always said that it
would want to acquire the holding, the newspaper reported McAdam
as saying.  Simon Gordon, a Vodafone spokesman, declined to comment.  Investors probably value Verizon Wireless at about nine
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, Bienenstock said. That’s $238.4 billion based on
 last fiscal year’s Ebitda , valuing Vodafone’s stake at about
$107 billion.  Dividend Payments  While Verizon probably can’t afford to buy out its partner
outright, Vodafone could sell 60 percent of its stake in
exchange for about 30 billion pounds in cash after tax and a 19
percent holding in Verizon Communications, Bienenstock said.  Verizon Wireless  was formed in 2000 when what was then Bell
Atlantic Corp. combined its U.S. wireless business with that of
Vodafone’s. In recent years, the Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based
company has outpaced  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  in adding
speedier network technology and attracting customers.  Verizon Wireless’s parents shared a $8.5 billion dividend
for 2012, with Vodafone’s share being $3.83 billion. An annual
payout isn’t guaranteed and Vodafone, as the minority partner,
needs to negotiate every year and that creates uncertainty for
Vodafone investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  