-- WellPoint Rate Increase Includes Early Health-Law Fee
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-09T21:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/wellpoint-rate-increase-includes-early-health-law-fee.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s plan to raise the
rates small employers in California pay for medical insurance
was criticized as unreasonable by the state insurance
commissioner, who said customers are being charged this year to
cover U.S. health-law fees that won’t begin until 2014.  WellPoint’s Anthem Blue Cross unit in California is raising
those rates an average of 10.6 percent, Insurance Commissioner
 Dave Jones  said yesterday at a news conference. WellPoint sells
small group policies that cover 284,000 California employees,
including 54,000 whose policies will renew this month and would
immediately be affected, he said.  WellPoint overstated future medical use and cost trends and
shouldn’t have included next year’s fees as justification for
the increase, Jones said. The commissioner provided his findings
last month to the insurer, which plans to proceed with the rate
increase. WellPoint’s proposed 39 percent rate increase in 2010
was criticized by politicians and advocates, who said it spurred
support for President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act.  “Anthem Blue Cross’s return on equity or profit has been
and continues to be excessive,” Jones said.  Anthem Blue Cross said rates will go up an average of 6.5
percent and the increase is lower than non-profit competitors.  “The rate increases in the small group market are not
unique to Anthem Blue Cross, but rather represent an economic
reality faced throughout the entire industry as health-care
costs continue to escalate faster than our state’s economy as a
whole,” Kristin Binns, a WellPoint spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail.  Limited Power  WellPoint, the second-biggest U.S. health insurer by market
value, reported gross profit of  $13 billion  in 2011, or about 21
percent of revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Indianapolis-based company owns Blue Cross plans in 14 states.
 UnitedHealth (UNH)  Group Inc., based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , is
WellPoint’s larger competitor.  WellPoint increased 3.3 percent to $62.05 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time.  The 2010 health law will impose a  sales tax  on insurers
that starts at $8 billion in 2014.  California’s insurance commissioner can only review rate
increases and doesn’t have the authority to stop those deemed
excessive. Jones said 37 states have the power to halt
unreasonable rate increases.  Aetna Inc. (AET)  Chief Executive Officer Mark Bertolini said last
month that health insurance premiums may as much as double for
some small businesses and individual buyers next year. The
Affordable Care Act is expected to extend health coverage to
about 30 million people who otherwise couldn’t get insurance,
partly paid for by new taxes and fees on health-care companies.  Around the country, Aetna, UnitedHealth,  Centene Corp. (CNC)  and
other health insurers have proposed large increases on small
businesses and individual buyers in recent months, citing rising
costs for medical care and greater requirements of the health-
care law. The Obama administration has said provisions in the
law have kept increases from being even higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  