-- Whitehaven Considers Selling Stake in Maules Creek, CEO Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-01-08T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/whitehaven-considers-selling-stake-in-maules-creek-ceo-says.html
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , the producer
that counts  Nathan Tinkler  as its largest shareholder, would
look to sell part of its A$766 million ($803 million) Maules
Creek project provided the buyer also agreed to take coal.  “There’s an opportunity there for us to introduce another
partner,” Tony Haggarty, chief executive officer of Sydney-
based Whitehaven, said in a phone interview. “The right reason
would be about underpinning the offtake.”  Whitehaven gained Maules Creek through its A$2.7 billion
takeover of Aston Resources Ltd. in December 2011, in a deal
that made Tinkler its dominant shareholder. Relations with
Tinkler have broken down as the entrepreneur made an
unsuccessful bid to remove the board last year and Tinkler faced
speculation his backers may seek to take control of his stake in
the company.  Maules Creek, which is due to start operation in 2014, was
the target of a hoax e-mail from a green group yesterday that
pushed Whitehaven shares down as much as 8.8 percent before they
recovered. Frontline Action on Coal sent a fake press release
saying that Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. had
terminated a A$1.2 billion loan to Whitehaven on environmental
grounds.  The fake e-mail was “outrageous” and the people behind it
need to be held accountable, Haggarty said.  The  Australian Securities and Investments Commission  has
started inquiries into the hoax, focusing on the possibility of
a breach of the Corporations Act with regard to making false or
misleading statements, the watchdog said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  More broadly, potential investors have shied away from
buying shares in Whitehaven because of speculation about the
future of Tinkler’s stake, Haggarty said. “If he were to sell
his shares to the market, if that 20 percent were held by broad-
based institutional shareholders, that would be ideal.”  Whitehaven fell 0.6 percent to A$3.48 at 2:34 p.m. in
Sydney trading. Its shares have declined 36 percent over the
past year as the Australian benchmark added 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  