-- Wildfires Threaten Australian Homes as Record Heatwave Eases
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-01-09T06:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/wildfires-threaten-australia-homes-even-as-record-heatwave-eases.html
Emergency personnel battling more
than 100 wildfires across  Australia ’s most-populous state warned
that properties remain at risk even as record temperatures ease.  A fire ban across the entire state remained in force today
even as a wave of cooler air sweeps over Australia’s southeast,
prompting emergency warnings to be canceled. Bushfires are still
burning in the southern island state of Tasmania, where more
than 100 properties were destroyed, and in Victoria. No
fatalities have been confirmed.  “We are by no means through the woods yet,” the Bureau of
Meteorology’s assistant director of weather services, Alasdair
Hainsworth, said in an e-mailed statement today. Strong winds,
high fuel loads and extreme heat “are causing extremely
challenging fire conditions for our emergency services
partners,” he said.  Southeast New South Wales cooled today with temperatures in
Sydney, which reached 42.3 degrees Celsius (108.1 degrees
Fahrenheit) yesterday, easing to 25 degrees.  Australia 
registered a national average of 40.33 degrees on Jan. 7, the
hottest day in more than 100 years of records, according to the
bureau.  Sydney’s temperature is forecast to reach 33 degrees on
Jan. 12, while  Melbourne  will reach 37 degrees on Jan. 11, the
weather office said.  Emergency Warnings  Tennis players at the Sydney International, a lead-up
tournament for next week’s Australian Open in Melbourne,
yesterday played through temperatures as high as 41.4 degrees at
Olympic Park. They draped themselves in ice towels at
changeovers during matches and some took ice baths to help them
recover.  Agnieszka Radwanska, the No. 4-ranked women’s player from
 Poland , said it was “too hot to play,” while 2011 French Open
champion Li Na of  China  said it felt like she was playing in a
sauna. They both won their matches.  “They say it was 40, but on the tennis court even more,”
Li told reporters. “I finish first set and I was feeling my
feet already burning.”  Black Saturday  Australia’s hot, dry climate makes bushfires a major risk
in the southern hemisphere’s summer, with the worst fires in the
nation’s history, the so-called Black Saturday blazes, killing
173 people as they swept through rural Victoria in February
2009.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard on Jan. 7 surveyed the
devastation in Tasmania, where more than 3,000 people were
forced from their homes by wildfires.  The fires have caused losses estimated at A$49 million ($51
million) in Tasmania and A$9 million in Victoria, the Insurance
Council of Australia said in an e-mailed statement today. There
has been no significant property loss in New South Wales, it
said.  In Victoria, as many as 20 homes were destroyed near
Ballarat last night, the Herald Sun reported. One house was
destroyed yesterday near the town of Yass in New South Wales,
the Australian Broadcasting Corp. said.  Fire last night damaged the Kings Canyon Resort, about 320
kilometers (200 miles) southeast of Alice Springs in central
Australia, causing 120 people to be evacuated, the Australian
newspaper reported.  Opposition leader Tony Abbott, a volunteer firefighter,
said in an e-mailed statement today that he is delaying his
annual vacation for three days to help battle blazes near Nowra
in rural New South Wales.  A bushfire that was burning about 1 kilometer from the
Bayswater Power Station in New South Wales was “not posing any
threat to production from the plant,” said Rob Cooper, a
spokesman for state-owned Macquarie Generation, which operates
the site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  