-- How to Make Immigration Reform Happen
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-08T23:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/will-immigration-reform-be-bipartisan-exception-.html
Could this be the moment? After years
of gridlock and legislative disappointment, policy makers on
both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue are laying the groundwork for
immigration reform. The White House has been building a
coalition, including labor, business and advocacy groups, to
power a final push. Meanwhile, a bipartisan bloc in the  U.S.
Senate  has begun to outline comprehensive changes that have
proved elusive in years past.  Although common ground among Democrats and Republicans is
otherwise limited, both parties have  ample cause  to put the
immigration debate behind them. Democrats are eager to deliver
on a long-delayed campaign promise; Republicans hope to shed a
political liability and start fresh with the Hispanic and Asian
voters who will increasingly decide elections.  The goals are well understood: a path to legalization -- at
a minimum -- for about 11 million undocumented immigrants, eased
restrictions on legal entry, and stronger enforcement of the
law, including a vastly improved employment verification
component.  Yet even mutual self-interest isn’t enough to ensure
success in  Washington . Given the polarized politics generally,
and the dysfunction of the  House of Representatives 
particularly, the Senate seems the place to forge a compromise.
Support from a  nucleus  of Republican senators, including Marco Rubio of  Florida ,  John McCain  of  Arizona  and  Orrin Hatch  of
 Utah , will be crucial to a deal.  There is already broad agreement -- even in the House -- on
the  need to ease legal immigration  for highly skilled workers.
By shutting out desperately needed people with degrees in
science, technology, engineering or math, restrictive U.S.
policies are  damaging competitiveness , undermining  innovation 
and leaving gaps in the workforce.  Unfilled Jobs  Even with high U.S. unemployment, STEM jobs are going
unfilled, in part because many qualified graduates of U.S.
colleges are foreigners who are unable to obtain the requisite
working papers. Microsoft has more than 6,000 job openings in
the U.S., more than half of them in high-paying core technology
areas.  Senators should begin by increasing the number of visas for
highly skilled workers, along with green cards for permanent
residents and work permits for spouses. If Republicans and
Democrats can agree on such legislation, they can then build on
that foundation, adding a Dream Act to provide a pathway to
citizenship for young immigrants. If legislators find they can
bear the weight of comprehensive reform, we will cheer. If the
politics take them only halfway, they should build as much as
they can now and revisit the most contentious issues later.  As a  report  released this week by the Migration Policy
Institute documents, the U.S. has spent $186 billion on
immigration enforcement over the past quarter century, with
expenditures spiking in recent years. Last year, the report
said, the  Barack Obama  administration spent a whopping $18
billion on enforcement -- more than it spent on all other  law
enforcement  combined. The  Border Patrol  has doubled its
personnel in the past seven years while investing heavily in
technology.  Popular misconceptions and political rhetoric aside,
illegal immigration has declined sharply even as the Obama
administration has conducted a record number of deportations.
Fewer efforts to cross the border illegally have led to a 53
percent decline in detentions since 2008. It’s time for the
nation’s debate -- and its laws -- to change with the facts on
the ground. With a brick-by-brick approach to reform, lawmakers
can build not a wall, but a better nation.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 