-- Yale Gallery’s $135 Million Expansion Reveals Riches
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-01-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/yale-gallery-s-135-million-expansion-reveals-riches.html
Standing in a space scarcely larger
than a dining room, I stared into the profoundly sad eyes of a
16th-century merchant painted by  Hans Holbein .  After nine years and $135 million, the Yale Art Galleries
on the university’s campus in New Haven,  Connecticut , have
reopened to display the treasures you more typically find in a
big-city museum. The project is the culmination of a campus-wide
arts master plan that has taken 17 years and $500 million.  Steps away are the glinting gold, reds and blues of early
Italian Renaissance paintings.  Many of these were collateral for a loan to collector James
Jackson Jarves. When he couldn’t make good, Yale was able to
purchase the collection for $22,000.  A short stroll takes you to a small but stunning selection
of Impressionist masterpieces, highlighted by the burnt-yellow
calm of  Van Gogh ’s “Night Cafe.”  Duncan Hazard and Richard Olcott, principals at the
Manhattan architectural firm  Ennead , managed to add 30,000
square feet of display space to the existing 40,000 square feet.  They unite three buildings, each with its own demanding
architectural personality without any of the new space being
visible from the street.  This is a collection that has been largely hidden for so
long that curators couldn’t resist jamming the walls with their
eye-popping riches.  Hazard and Olcott chose not to add another assertive
architectural voice to an aesthetic clamor that includes Street
Hall, a rambling 1866 brownstone pile.  A bridge arches to a muscular 1928 Italian Gothic palace in
biscuit-colored sandstone, now called the Old Yale Art Gallery.  Young Louis  The 1953 Kahn Building extends the Old Gallery with a
deferential addition in a no-nonsense industrial style. It was
architect Louis I. Kahn’s first important built work,
commissioned when he was a little-known Yale professor.  Hazard and Olcott pushed and pulled the largely gutted
interiors to get the existing structures to play nicely together
-- a task at which they didn’t wholly succeed.  That’s not tragic. Consider how I got to the Holbein and
the Van Gogh.  From the generous lobby in the Kahn building, I strolled
through a stone-faced, gorgeously vaulted hall in the Old
Gallery devoted to ancient Western Art, past a collection of
coins and up a tightly curling wrought-iron stair.  The European galleries, tucked in a space that once housed
faculty offices, verge on claustrophobic. The payoff is an
intimate view of important works that’s almost impossible to get
in a big-city public museum. There would be too many people.  But drawing on past experience, the university doesn’t
expect swarms in  New Haven .  Space Rhythm  There’s a nice rhythm between the small, intensely focused
spaces (like rooms crammed with American decorative arts) and
the few large, airier spaces, mainly reserved for American-
painting collections from the late 19th century to the present.  American work is a particular strength, including a
founding 1832 gift of history painter John Trumbell. Temporary
galleries display a formidable collection of early-20th-century
modern art, called the Societe Anonyme.  I hardly minded getting lost. There is a single wandering
line that links the three buildings on each of several levels,
but charming niches abound, and a rooftop study gallery opening
to panoramas of Yale’s neo-Gothic campus rewards a detour.  A shaft of sun from a skylight bathes a glass-enclosed
elevator and glass-floored stairway that navigates you through
the obstreperously idiosyncratic Street building, which is
offset by half a floor.  Glass Walls  In this melange, Kahn’s assertive ceiling planes of
concrete and walls of glass challenge the talents of curators as
they always have. Much of the daylight has been obscured to
protect spectacular Asian, Oceanic and African collections.  Kahn learned from the gallery’s shortcomings and went on to
become the 20th century’s best museum architect, brilliantly
mixing art lighting and daylight in master works like the  Yale
Center for British Art , across the street, and the  Kimbell Art
Museum  in  Fort Worth ,  Texas .  In the older Yale buildings, intriguing historical elements
appear unexpectedly, like a stone-columned archway that
beautifully frames a Sol Lewitt wall drawing. Mostly the
renovated spaces provide much more hanging area at the price of
a homogenized aesthetic of painted drywall.  All that wall space frees curators to hang the gallery’s
numerous masterworks with enriching obscurities, thrillingly
echoing academic and cultural debates.  In the end, it’s not easy to reconcile the Gallery’s
embarrassment of architectural and art riches. With some 2,000
works on view, why should it? It is as if one of America’s
greatest art collections has been conjured out of nowhere.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mike Di Paola  on animal hoarders,
 Richard Vines  on dining.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 