-- U.S. Stocks Slip as Earnings Season Begins; Yen, Gold Up
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2013-01-08T21:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/yen-strengthens-as-gold-rebounds-most-asian-equities-decline.html
U.S. stocks retreated for a second
day as investors awaited fourth-quarter earnings reports, while
European  shares  erased early gains triggered after economic
confidence grew more than forecast. The yen and gold advanced.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.3 percent to
1,457.15 as of 4 p.m. in  New York  and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
closed down 0.1 percent, with trading volume 45 percent higher
than the three-month average. The yen appreciated 0.8 percent
versus the dollar after touching a 2 1/2-year low last week.
Sweden’s krona fell after the central bank said the economy is
slowing.  U.S. Treasuries  remained higher after a $32 billion
auction. Gold gained for the first time in four days.  Alcoa Inc. started the reporting season for Dow Jones
Industrial Average companies after the close of exchanges in New
York, with the largest U.S. aluminum producer posting sales that
beat analysts’ forecasts amid higher-than-expected prices for
the metal. Fourth-quarter profit at companies in the  S&P 500 (SPX) 
probably increased 2.9 percent, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg, which would mark the second-slowest
quarterly growth since 2009.  “We’re waiting for earnings to come out,”  John Manley ,
who helps oversee about $212 billion as chief equity strategist
for Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “Valuations are far from excessive. Yet we’ve had a
strong rally very quickly. Now the market is adjusting.”  Market Movers  The  S&P 500  retreated for a second day after reaching a
five-year high last week following a budget compromise in
 Washington  that averted most of the so-called fiscal cliff of
spending cuts and tax increases. The index is trading for about
14.8 times its companies’  reported earnings , compared with a
five-decade average of about 16.4.  The  VIX (VIX) , as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is know, declined 1.2 percent to 13.62 today, its lowest
level since August. The benchmark gauge of U.S. options has
retreated for six straight days and slid 39 percent last week
for its biggest weekly drop on record.  Alcoa (AA)  shares closed unchanged in the regular session and
climbed 2.3 percent in extended trading after the company
reported results. Sales fell to $5.9 billion from $5.99 billion,
beating the $5.6 billion average of 11 estimates. Profit
excluding a gain on the sale of a power plant and other one-time
items was 6 cents a share, matching the average of 20 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Season  GameStop Corp. (GME) , the world’s largest video-game retailer,
tumbled 6.3 percent after the company narrowed its full-year
same-store sales forecast, citing disappointing holiday results.
Yum! Brands Inc., owner of the Taco Bell and KFC chains, slid
4.2 percent after fourth-quarter same-store sales fell more than
projected in  China  after a government probe into one of its
former suppliers hurt demand.  Among  European stocks , Debenhams Plc sank 7.7 percent after
the second-largest U.K. department-store chain cut its goal for
annual profit-margin growth as it stepped up discounting.
Vodafone Group Plc gained 1.7 percent as the Wall Street Journal
reported that Verizon Communications Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Lowell McAdam said buying the U.K. company’s stake in
their Verizon Wireless joint venture is feasible. TGS Nopec
Geophysical ASA rallied 7 percent as the Norwegian offshore
surveyor forecast 2012 revenue that exceeded analysts’
estimates.  European Markets  The Stoxx 600 rose as much as 0.4 percent in early trading
before following U.S. stocks lower. A gauge of euro-region
executive and consumer sentiment rose to 87 last month,
exceeding the 86.3 median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The yen gained against all 16 major peers.  Japan ’s currency
has climbed more than 1 percent against the dollar this week
after touching 88.41 on Jan. 4, the weakest level since July
2010. The yen’s 14-day relative strength index against the
dollar was below the 30 level that traders view as a signal that
an asset’s price has fallen too fast.  Japan’s Finance Minister Taro Aso said the government will
use reserves to buy euro-denominated sovereign debt to weaken
the yen, while stopping short of signaling direct euro
purchases.  Sweden’s krona weakened against all its major peers,
declining 0.6 percent against the euro. Minutes from the
Riksbank’s meeting last month showed that the central bank
considered cutting the benchmark rate by twice as much as it
did.  ‘Slowing Down’  “New information received since the monetary policy
meeting in October indicates that the Swedish economy is slowing
down more sharply than was assessed then,” minutes of the Dec.
17 meeting of Riksbank policy makers published today said.  Treasuries rose today after getting off to their worst
start to a year since 2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes showed. U.S. government securities handed investors a
0.7 percent loss in 2013 as of yesterday. Benchmark 10-year
yields decreased three basis points to 1.87 percent today.  The three-year notes sold in today’s auction drew a yield
of 0.385 percent, compared with a forecast of 0.387 percent in a
survey of five of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers. The
bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of securities offered, was 3.62, compared with
an average of 3.57 for the past 10 sales.  The yield on Ireland’s five-year  note  fell 11 basis points
to 3.22 percent as the nation began selling securities via banks
for the first time in three years.  Bond Watch  Bonds in  Israel  and the U.K. were the world’s biggest
movers in developed sovereign markets today, according to
Bloomberg’s Cumulative Movement Index, which measures changes in
10-year bonds, the spread between two- and 10-year debt and
five-year credit default swaps relative to the average daily
change in the past 90 days. Israel bonds had a cumulative
movement index of 5.1 and Britain’s was 3.1.  Silver, lead and heating oil rallied at least 1 percent to
lead gains in 13 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
Index, which increased 0.2 percent.  Gold for February delivery climbed 1 percent to $1,662.20
an ounce after falling 2.5 percent since Jan. 3. Oil in New York
was little changed near $93 a barrel before Energy Department
data on inventories tomorrow.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.6 percent, declining
for a third day, as results from Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC
Corp. (2498)  disappointed some investors.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index
slid 0.7 percent and  Taiwan ’s Taiex lost 0.4 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.4 percent and the Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong
Kong  sank 2.2 percent, the most in two months.  Brazil ’s Bovespa
plunged 1.3 percent, the most since November, as power producers
led declines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  