-- Zipcar Investor Sues to Block Avis Budget Takeover Bid
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-01-08T21:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/zipcar-investor-sues-to-block-avis-budget-takeover-proposal-1-.html
Zipcar Inc. (ZIP)  was sued by an investor
who claims that  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR) ’s takeover offer for the
short-term car rental company is inadequate.  The $491 million sale to Avis Budget shortchanges Zipcar
shareholders, Martin Bertisch alleged in a complaint filed today
in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Zipcar’s board failed to take all necessary steps to ensure
that shareholders will receive the maximum value for their
shares, lawyers for Bertisch said in the filing. The merger
agreement also includes preclusive deal protection devices that
will benefit Avis Budget instead of Zipcar and its shareholders,
according to the complaint.  With the Zipcar deal, Avis Budget becomes the latest
company to pursue the fast-growing market for young, urban
customers who want to rent cars by the hour, rather than owning
their own vehicles. Enterprise Holdings Inc. and  Hertz Global
Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , the two largest U.S. car-rental companies, have
already rolled out offerings for such customers.  Karen Drake, a spokeswoman for Zipcar, declined to comment
on the lawsuit.  Zipcar, founded in 2000, projected its first annual profit
this year of as much as $4 million. The company’s board agreed
to Avis Budget’s bid of $12.25 a share, a 49 percent premium on
the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company’s Dec. 31 closing
price. That is also a 32 percent discount to Zipcar’s initial
public offering price of $18.  Bertisch is seeking to represent all shareholders in his
request for a court order barring the deal.  The case is Bertisch v. Zipcar Inc., CA8185, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  