-- Zoomlion Drops Even After Countering Anonymous Note
-- B y   S a n d i   L i u   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-01-09T09:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-08/zoomlion-halted-after-ming-pao-daily-report-on-anonymous-letter.html
Zoomlion (1157)  Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co.,  China ’s second-biggest construction-equipment
maker, fell the most in eight months in Hong Kong trading after
a newspaper said an anonymous letter questioned its  sales .  Zoomlion  plummeted  6.4 percent to HK$11.04 in Hong Kong,
the biggest decline since May 7, 2012. Its Shenzhen-traded
 shares  slid 3.2 percent to 8.9 yuan.  The company yesterday said it doesn’t exaggerate  earnings 
and that allegations about its financial information are
“false, groundless and misleading.” Construction-equipment
makers face a glut in China, and Chinese companies’ finances are
under heightened scrutiny after short seller  Carson Block ’s Los
Angeles-based Muddy Waters LLC uncovered irregularities
including those at now-bankrupt Sino-Forest Corp.  “The bigger thing is no one really knows who this letter
is from,” said Vik Chopra, analyst at Sun Hung Kai Financial
Research, who  recommends  selling the shares. “People may be
thinking the stock has gone up quite a bit for a while -- let’s
take profit, sit back and see how the whole thing plays out.”  The Hong Kong-traded stock’s 14-day  relative strength
index , measuring how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped
during a time period, was at 63 yesterday and hit 74 three weeks
ago. Readings above 70 indicate a price may be poised to fall,
according to some traders.  Accounting Standards  Zoomlion statements to the Shenzhen and  Hong Kong  stock
exchanges were in response to the report about the letter in
Ming Pao Daily, which said the note was also sent to the company
and Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission.  The  maker  of cranes and concrete pumps said its sales
follow Chinese accounting rules and that its financial report
for the six months ended June was prepared in compliance with
international accounting standards. Zoomlion, based in Changsha,
China, had its stock halted from trading yesterday.  “The market will not see the full-year audited report
until March, so meanwhile, there will be concerns on whether the
SFC would launch an investigation on the back of those
allegations,” said Saiyi He, analyst at Macquarie Capital
Securities.  Construction equipment makers including  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  and
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  have built enough capacity in China, the
industry’s biggest market, to satisfy global demand twice over
while sales in the country are falling, according to Off-Highway
Research.  Crawler Excavators  Capacity in China is almost 600,000 excavators a year while
the worldwide market is about 300,000, the London-based
researcher said. Inventories of crawler excavators in China are
about 100,000, almost equal to projected 2012 domestic sales,
Off-Highway Research’s Managing Director David C.A. Phillips
said in an interview last month.  Phillips forecast annual demand growth in China slowing to
as little as 5 percent for the next 3 to 5 years, after growth
of as high as 25 percent for some types of equipment in the
decade through mid-2011.  Yields on Zoomlion’s 6.125 percent U.S. dollar-denominated
debt due in 2022 rose 42 basis points to 6.22 percent yesterday,
before falling to 6.12 percent at 5:18 p.m. today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on its 6.875 percent notes
due in 2017 rose to 5.68 percent yesterday from 4.89 percent,
before declining to 5.35 percent today.  Ernest Kong, a spokesman for the Securities and Futures
Commission, declined to comment yesterday when asked if the
agency had received a letter regarding Zoomlion, citing the
regulator’s policy of not commenting on individual cases.  Sany Heavy Industry Co. is China’s biggest machinery maker.
Its Shanghai-traded stock fell 1 percent to 9.98  yuan .  Zoomlion’s  Hong Kong-listed shares  rose 37 percent last
year, compared with the 23 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index . Its Shenzhen-listed shares climbed 20 percent in
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandi Liu in Hong Kong at 
 sliu60@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  