-- A Craft Beer Brand's Winning Recipe? Outsourcing
-- B y   A n i t a   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-20T19:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/a-craft-beer-brand-s-winning-recipe-outsourcing.html
     Aug. 20 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- Beer lover Jeremy Cowan
hadn’t ever brewed a single batch of beer when he launched his
craft beer company, Shmaltz Brewing, out of his Mission District
loft in  San Francisco  in 1996. Instead, Cowan, then a technology
purchasing manager at a startup, paid a local brewer $1,500 to
make and bottle the first 100 cases. In a nod to his Jewish
heritage, Cowan named the ale He’brew Genesis. His other
contribution to “the chosen beer,” as its tagline reads: the
juice from eight crates of pomegranates, which he and a few
friends squeezed by hand the night before the inaugural brew.  The Kosher-certified beer sold out in three weeks at
high-end grocery stores in the  Bay Area . In 2003, after trying
out a few local contract brewers, Cowan struck a deal with Olde
Saratoga in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., a subsidiary of storied
Mendocino Brewing, to make his brews. (It had extra capacity, and
Cowan had enough to pay for 2,800 cases, thanks to a $30,000 cash
advance on his  credit card .) Olde Saratoga now makes all 15 of
Shmaltz’s varieties, which are available in 31 states, as well as
 Canada ,  Australia , and  Japan . That’s wider distribution than
established craft competitors such as Bell’s, Deschutes, and New
Belgium. “[The brewmaster] and I collaborate very directly on the
flavors of every beer we make, but the manufacturing nitty-gritty
details are less romantic to me,” says Cowan, who expects $3
million in revenue this year.  So why is Cowan, who splits his time between  New York City 
and San Francisco, opening his own brewery in  Brooklyn , N.Y.,
this fall? The one-word answer: marketing. It will serve as a
gathering place for his “tribe” (as he calls Shmaltz fans) to
sample all his beers, including his Coney Island lagers, in one
place. “The allure of putting a small batch brewery in the center
of the biggest city in the U.S. and one of the fastest-growing
craft beer scenes far outweighs the risk,” the Stanford English
major explains. Olde Saratoga will still handle nearly all of
Shmaltz’s brewing—currently more than 2 million bottles a year.  For an industry that trumpets the artisanal process and
local origins of its independent brewers (Merriam-Webster added
its definition of craft beer earlier this month) Shmaltz has been
an unlikely hit. It was named the best craft brewer in the
country by Beverage World magazine in 2010 and has won 14 gold
and silver medals in the World Beer Championships in the past
three years. And unlike many of the 2,126 craft breweries the
Brewers Association says make up the $8.7 billion industry in the
U.S., Cowan says Shmaltz has been profitable since 2005.  “A lot of brewers today started as homebrewers,” says Julia
Herz, craft beer program director at the trade group. “They
started brewpubs or tap rooms so they could be in touch with
people in their own tasting room.” She notes that only 2 percent
of the more than 11 million barrels of craft beer produced in the
U.S. in 2011 were contract brewed.  Despite the decades-old reputation contract brews have had
for being second-rate compared with other craft brews, Cowan
chose the contract route because it was cheaper than buying a
brewery, which starts around $30,000 and can exceed $1 million.
“I didn’t have the money for it,” says Cowan, now 43. “There was
no other way to do it.” Instead he focused on sales,
distribution, and resolving problems such as patent disputes with
potential rivals and finding hops during the 2008 “hop crisis”
(when prices more than quintupled due to supply shortages).  Of course, outsourcing production created its own hurdles.
Because he had to split the proceeds with his brewer, Cowan’s
margins were too slim to turn a profit for the first eight years
of business. To make ends meet, he maxed out his credit cards,
borrowed $135,000 from friends and family, and couch-surfed at
friends’ houses while on sales calls across the country. Even
after he broke even in 2004, thanks to rising sales and higher
profit margins that came from raising prices on his product, he
still couldn’t get a business loan because he had no collateral
in the form of property or equipment, he recalls in his 2011
memoir, Craft Beer Bar Mitzvah. “Banks wouldn’t touch it,” says
Cowan.  Today, wary of the recent doubling of hops prices, Cowan is
cautiously optimistic about Shmaltz’s prospects. He has 11
employees, a line of credit with a bank, and enough cash to stay
in discount hotel rooms he books on Priceline. And while he
remains passionate about craft beer, he’ll still get someone else
to make it, 16 years after Shmaltz’s genesis.