-- About Half of Doctors Say They’re Burned Out by Workload
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-08-20T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/about-half-of-doctors-say-they-re-burned-out-by-workload.html
About 1 in 2 doctors are burned out,
showing signs of emotional exhaustion and little interest in
work as patient loads increase, U.S. researchers found.  Doctors working in emergency, family and  internal medicine 
were the most likely to feel drained, according to the  study 
released today in the Archives of Internal Medicine. Researchers
said burnout also was tied to long hours, with 37 percent of
physicians working more than 60 hours a week.  The number of doctors reporting feeling burned out is
surprising and troubling, said  Tait Shanafelt , a professor of
medicine at the  Mayo Clinic  and lead study author. He said the
trend may cause physicians to quit or reduce their workload just
as demand for doctors is increasing with the aging population.
The issue may get worse as 32 million Americans are expected to
get health insurance by 2014 under a new U.S. law, increasing
the number of people seeking medical care, he said.  “Right at a time when we are trying to provide care to
people who are uninsured and projecting workforce shortages we
are seeing this burnout rate creep in, which may cause
physicians to reduce workloads and consider early retirement,”
Shanafelt said.  He added that burnout has also been linked to medical
errors and worse patient care in previous studies.  The study found that 46 percent of doctors show at least
one sign of being worn out. Shanafelt said the burnout was about
10 percent higher than in the population as a whole. Unlike with
other professions, more education isn’t linked to a lower risk
of feeling drained among doctors, the study found.  Across Specialties  Researchers collected responses from 7,288 doctors across
all practice areas to measure levels of emotional exhaustion,
depersonalization and sense of professional accomplishment. The
data was compared with surveys of the general population.  There was no increased rate of depression or suicide among
doctors compared with the general population, a sign that the
burnout is specific to the work environment, Shanafelt said. He
said more research is needed to determine proper treatment.  Doctors have been increasing the number of patients they
see to make up for reduced reimbursement from health insurers
and the government, Shanafelt said. Physicians in private
practice are also dealing with more bureaucracy, such as a push
by the government to implement electronic medical records.  “If this were only 5 percent, we could say that these are
just people who don’t manage their stress well or need
additional training,” Shanafelt said. “But with almost one out
of every two physicians, we have to say there must be something
about their environment contributing to this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  