-- Aetna to Pay $5.7 Billion for Coventry Health, WSJ Says
-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 2012-08-20T07:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/aetna-to-pay-5-7-billion-for-coventry-health-wsj-says.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , a health insurer, agreed
to buy  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  for $5.7 billion as it expands
in government-funded medical care, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  Aetna will pay $42.08 a share for Coventry, with 65 percent
of the amount in cash and the rest in stock, the report said.
That would be 20 percent higher than the Aug. 17 closing  price 
of the Bethesda, Maryland-based company.  The insurer’s rivals, including  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and
 Cigna Corp. (CI) , have been buying health-care providers and forming
alliances with hospitals and doctors across the U.S. in response
to pressure from employers to rein in medical bills. The
ventures aim to improve preventive care, closely monitor at-risk
patients and determine payments based on quality measures rather
than the number of procedures done.  Calls and e-mails to Aetna and Coventry’s media relations
contacts posted on their websites weren’t immediately answered
outside of normal business hours.  Coventry has climbed 15 percent this year,  compared  with a
9.8 percent decline for Aetna. UnitedHealth, the biggest U.S.
health insurer, has advanced 4.8 percent.  Aetna’s acquisition will increase the proportion of revenue
from government business to more than 30 percent from the
current 23 percent level, the Journal reported, citing the
people familiar. The insurer expects the deal to add about 45
cents to per-share earnings in 2014 and 90 cents in 2015, the
report said.  Medicare, Medicaid  Wellpoint Inc. (WLP)  said on July 9 it would pay $4.9 billion for
 Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  to become the largest private provider of
Medicaid plans to low-income patients. Cigna last year agreed to
buy HealthSpring for $3.8 billion to build up its Medicare
business.  Medicare is the U.S. government health plan for the elderly
and disabled, while Medicaid is a joint federal-state program
for the poor. Medicaid insurer  Centene Corp. (CNC)  has risen 45
percent since WellPoint announced the Amerigroup purchase.  Medicaid is expected to add more than 15 million people
over the next decade under President Barack Obama’s health-care
overhaul, just as states also look to save money by contracting
more of their Medicaid business to managed-care companies.  Aetna had adjusted earnings per share of $1.31 in the
second quarter, compared with $1.35 a year earlier, the company
reported on July 31.  Net income  for the quarter was $457.6
million, or $1.32 per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave McCombs in Tokyo at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  