-- Aetna Buys Coventry for $5.6 Billion for Government Plans
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-08-20T20:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/aetna-agrees-to-buy-coventry-for-7-3-billion-including-debt.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-biggest U.S.
health plan, agreed to buy  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  for $5.6
billion, in the latest bid by an insurer to boost government
business under President  Barack Obama ’s health overhaul.  Aetna will pay $42.08 a share for Bethesda, Maryland-based
Coventry, the best performer in New York trading among medical
insurers this year. That represents a 20 percent premium over
Coventry’s closing price of $34.94 on Aug. 17, which gave the
company a market value of $4.68 billion. Including the
assumption of Coventry debt, the deal is valued at $7.3 billion,
Hartford, Connecticut-based Aetna said in a statement.  Aetna joins competitors  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  and  Cigna Corp. (CI)  in
making acquisitions over the past year as the U.S. government
expands medical coverage. The purchase means 30 percent of
Aetna’s revenue will come from federal-backed plans for elderly
Medicare enrollees and low-income Medicaid patients, compared
with the current 23 percent. Aetna’s reach in the markets for
small businesses and individuals will also grow.  “It’s a deal that almost had to happen,” said Thomas Carroll, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst in Baltimore. “For
Aetna to really compete effectively amongst the other large,
national managed-care companies, they have to do more in terms
of gaining market share in the commercial business as well as
getting a bigger foothold in Medicare and Medicaid, which are
the growth areas in managed care over the next decade.”  Aetna rose 5.6 percent to $40.18 at the close in  New York ,
while Coventry surged 20 percent to $42.04. Aetna had declined
9.8 percent this year through Aug. 17, the last day of trading
before the deal was announced. Coventry had gained 15 percent,
the most in the  S&P 500 index  tracking the six biggest insurers.  New Customers  The deal will add more than 5 million customers to Aetna’s
36.7 million  members , including 250,000 people on Medicare
health plans and 930,000 on Medicaid. Coventry provides
prescription drug coverage to 1.5 million more Medicare
enrollees as well.  Obama’s health-care law seeks to add as many as 17 million
patients under Medicaid, while individual states are turning to
insurers to help manage existing programs at lower costs.
Medicare managed-care plans are among the fastest-growing
products for health insurers as Americans age.  At the same time, employer-backed plans that make up the
bulk of Aetna’s business face pressure amid the weak  U.S.
economy  and new regulations in the health law. Much of the law
kicks in starting in 2014.  ‘Time Running Out’  “We think diversification is incredibly important as we
head into health-care reform,” Mark Bertolini, Aetna’s chief
executive officer, said today on a conference call with
analysts. “Time was running out for us to consider something
like this because we want to have it ready for integration and
closed prior to health-care reform kicking off.”  The law also imposes a new tax on insurers to help pay for
covering the uninsured, as well as regulations expected to
squeeze profit margins in the commercial sector.  “Scale matters now,” said Coventry CEO Allen Wise. “Our
senior management board and board thought it was in the best
interest of our shareholders, that we were stronger together
than apart.”  The deal also will expand  Aetna’s reach  among smaller
employers and customers who buy coverage on their own instead of
through an employer. Both markets are expected to expand under
the health overhaul.  “Coventry’s historic strength with small businesses and
individuals will balance Aetna’s strength” with big employers,
the CEO said.  Deal Financing  Aetna said it will finance the purchase with a combination
of cash on hand and about $2.5 billion in  new debt  and
commercial paper. The deal is expected to close in the middle of
next year, the companies said. The price for Coventry includes
$27.30 in cash and 0.3885 Aetna share, the companies said.  The purchase will add to Aetna’s operating earnings per
share next year, add 45 cents a share in 2014 and 90 cents the
following year, excluding transaction and integration costs, the
companies said.  The acquisition would be the biggest for a health insurer
in the past five years. There have been 119 acquisitions of
health-maintenance organizations in that period, with an average
size of $646.6 million and an average premium of 30 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Previous Deals  WellPoint said last month it would buy Medicaid insurer
 Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  for $4.9 billion, and Cigna bought Medicare
specialist Healthspring Inc. for $3.8 billion in January.  WellPoint, the second-largest U.S. health plan by
enrollment, paid a 43 percent premium to Amerigroup’s previous
closing price, while Cigna, the fifth biggest paid a 37 percent
premium for Healthspring.  Aetna Chief Financial Officer Joseph Zubretsky said in an
interview last month that he was open to an acquisition of any
size as long as it’s a “strategic fit.”  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , is
the largest insurer. WellPoint is based in Indianapolis and
Cigna in Bloomfield,  Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  