-- Thailand Signals Slower Growth as Export Outlook Wanes: Economy
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-20T08:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/thai-growth-accelerates-as-domestic-demand-counters-global-woes.html
Thailand  signaled growth in the
second half of this year may be weaker than previously forecast
as a global slowdown hurts exports from Southeast  Asia ’s second-
biggest economy.  Gross domestic product is forecast to expand 5.5 percent to
6 percent, compared with a previous growth range of 5.5 percent
to 6.5 percent, Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, secretary-general of
the National Economic and Social Development Board, said in
Bangkok today. It reduced the forecast for export growth to 7.3
percent from 15.1 percent on concern  Europe ’s crisis will damp
demand, he said.  Thailand’s warning underscores the need for Asian economies
to rely on domestic demand for expansion as Europe’s crisis and
elevated U.S. unemployment erode export gains. While Thailand
joined  Malaysia  and  Indonesia  among Southeast Asian nations
reporting accelerated growth in the second quarter as policy
makers implement fiscal stimulus, its downgraded forecast may
reflect regional struggles with sales abroad.  “Thailand’s a little bit of a canary in the  coal mine ,”
said  Glenn Maguire , principal at consultant Asia Sentry Advisory
Pty Ltd. in North Sydney,  Australia , and former Societe Generale
chief Asia economist.  “It’s an opportune time for Asia’s
leaders to once again revisit perhaps looking at another round
of fiscal stimulus to offset the global weakening.”  The baht was little changed at 31.52 per dollar as of 3:35
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Thailand’s benchmark  SET Index (SET)  of stocks rose 0.3 percent.  2Q Growth  Today’s report showed GDP increased 4.2 percent in the
three months through June from a year earlier, after expanding a
revised 0.4 percent in the previous quarter, the government
agency said. That exceeded all 16 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey that had a median prediction of a 3.1 percent rise.  The  Bank of Thailand  kept its  policy rate  at 3 percent for
a fourth meeting last month, and cut its expansion forecast for
the year to 5.7 percent from 6 percent. It reduced its export
growth estimate to 7 percent from 8.3 percent and said  inflation 
will be 2.9 percent from an earlier prediction of 3.3 percent.  “The stronger data is unlikely to alter the call for
easing by the BOT, although the timing might be delayed,” said
Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale
SA in  Hong Kong . “Export data has already shown weakness.”  In neighboring Myanmar, the economy may grow as much as 8
percent a year over the next decade as inflation remains low and
the government increases trade ties with neighbors China and
 India , according to the  Asian Development Bank .  Myanmar’s Outlook  The near-term outlook for Myanmar’s economy, which is a
10th the size of Thailand’s, is “relatively upbeat” because of
higher foreign investment and commodity sales, the ADB said in a
report today. Annual growth of 8 percent may triple per capita
gross domestic product to $3,000 by 2030, it said.  Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, who marked her
first year in office this month, has shelved politically
contentious legislation to focus on the economy as Thailand
recovers from the worst floods in almost 70 years in 2011.
Southeast Asian nations from Indonesia to Malaysia have also cut
 interest rates  or increased public spending to boost consumption
as Europe’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery curb
exports.  Yingluck’s government has raised minimum wages and pledged
to spend more than 2 trillion baht ($63.5 billion) on
infrastructure and water-management projects over the next seven
years to boost growth and prevent a repeat of the flood
disaster, which killed more than 700 people and cost the economy
1.4 trillion baht.  Europe ‘Uncertainty’  “Economic uncertainty, especially from the euro region,
remains a key risk in the second half,” Arkhom said. “We need
to accelerate budget spending to boost the local economy.”  Asian stocks fell as concern corporate earnings are
deteriorating amid slowing Chinese economic growth offset
optimism for the global outlook after U.S.  consumer confidence 
topped estimates. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was down 0.1
percent at 120.68 at 5:44 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Elsewhere in Asia, a government report showed  Taiwan ’s
export orders fell more than economists forecast in July, the
fifth straight month of declines.  Orders, an indicator of shipments in the next one to three
months, dropped 4.4 percent from a year earlier after a 2.62
percent decline in June, a Ministry of Economic Affairs report
in Taipei showed today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 12 economists was for a 2.98 percent fall.  U.S., Europe  In the U.S., the Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago releases
its national economic activity index for July, which draws on 85
indicators. In the U.K., home sellers cut asking prices by a
record for the month of August, a report today showed. Euro-area
construction output for June will be reported today after a gain
in May.  In South America,  Chile  may report that its economy
expanded 5.4 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
compared with 5.6 percent growth in the previous quarter, a
survey of economists showed.  Thailand’s economy, the biggest in Southeast Asia after
Indonesia, grew 3.3 percent last quarter from three months
earlier, compared with a revised 10.8 percent increase in the
previous period. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 2 percent gain quarter on quarter.  Thai  exports  fell 4.2 percent in June from a year earlier,
the fourth decline in six months, even as a unit of  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  had record local sales this year after supply constraints
eased and the Thai government offered as much as 100,000 baht in
tax savings for first-time buyers.  Meeting the government’s full-year export growth target of
15 percent will be “difficult,” after shipments contracted by
2.1 percent in the first half, Arkhom said.  “To reach the target, we need to ship $25 billion per
month, which is a very high level,” he said.  There is room to adjust monetary policy to support economic
growth if needed, and the central bank is ready to do more, it
said at the time. Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said
earlier this month he’d like to see the baht weaken slightly to
help exporters and the benchmark rate should be 2.5 percent as
inflation is now manageable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  