-- Thain Has High-Grade Mien in CIT Debt Purge: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-20T17:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/thain-has-high-grade-mien-in-cit-debt-purge-corporate-finance.html
Less than three years after  CIT
Group Inc. (CIT)  completed its bankruptcy reorganization, Chief
Executive Officer  John Thain  is persuading investors that its
debt is as creditworthy as an investment-grade firm.  The average yield investors demand to hold the bonds of CIT
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell to 310 basis points as of Aug.
17, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The
average spread on an index of BBB rated financial firms that
includes Axa SA and American Express Co., which is at least
three grades above  junk-rated  CIT, was 349 basis points.  Investors are clamoring for CIT’s securities as it polishes
its credit profile by unencumbering assets and replacing high
interest-rate debt with lower coupons. The commercial lender has
chipped away at its  balance sheet , reducing long-term debt by
$10.5 billion since the end of 2010 as its average bond spread
has dropped 151 basis points over the same time period.  “As they’re refinancing and as they’re improving their
balance sheet, it’s a snowball effect of getting better rates,
and they’re also coming at an opportune time because spreads are
tightening,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview.  Credit Quality  CIT Treasurer Glenn Votek has said the company “very
much” aspires to restoring investment-grade ratings.  “We realize it’s often faster going down than it is going
up,” Votek said in a telephone interview. “It’s a matter of us
executing and we hope that recognition would come from the
rating agencies. More importantly, it needs to be recognized by
the investors that are purchasing our debt securities, and those
investors have already shown how they’re thinking about our
credit quality.”  CIT will redeem all its so-called series C, 7 percent
senior unsecured notes by Sept. 17, in what Thain called a
“significant milestone,” according to a press release today.  “Our dedicated efforts over the past three years to
eliminate or refinance nearly $31 billion of debt have
materially reduced our cost of capital, strengthened the
earnings potential of the business and allowed us to more
effectively meet the financing needs of our small business and
middle market clients, who remain the heart of the American
economy,” Thain said in the statement.  CIT has improved with the “passage of time,” according to
Bonnie Baha, head of global developed credit at Los Angeles-
based DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees $40 billion and
doesn’t own CIT bonds.  Expensive Debt  “They’ve been paying down expensive debt with cheaper debt
and have a bit more discipline than the market anticipated,”
Baha said in a telephone interview. “They’ve had the luxury of
time, and the market has gone their way.”  CIT sold $1.75 billion of 4.25 percent, five-year notes to
yield 364 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and
$1.25 billion of 5 percent, 10-year bonds at a relative yield of
350 basis points on July 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds will go toward retiring the 7 percent series
C debt due 2016 and 2017, according to a July 31 news release.
CIT lowered its weighted average fixed  coupon  to 5.68 percent
from 6.77 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010, Bloomberg data
show.  The company sold $2 billion of bonds in May, including
$1.25 billion of 5 percent, five-year bonds, with proceeds also
used to refinance the series C notes. Those notes traded at
102.8 cents on the dollar to yield 4.35 percent as of Aug. 17,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. In 2011, the company
sold $3.1 billion of five-year bonds at a 7 percent coupon.  Emergency Credit  CIT’s bond sale last month had its lowest coupons on record
for similar-maturity securities, Bloomberg data show.  Thain, the 57-year-old former Merrill Lynch & Co. chairman,
was hired in February 2010 to turn around CIT, which had emerged
from bankruptcy the previous December.  After becoming a bank during the 2008 credit crisis to
qualify for federal help, CIT lost all three of its investment-
grade ratings. Denied access to a Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. program to issue government-backed securities, the lender
arranged $3 billion of rescue financing in July 2009 from a
group of bondholders. CIT filed for bankruptcy that November.  High-yield, high-risk debt, also called speculative grade,
is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than
BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  Management has focused on getting rid of the  expensive debt 
leftover from the bankruptcy that led to the loss of $2.3
billion in U.S. bailout cash. After CIT refinanced its series A
and B debt, the series C became unsecured, unencumbering its
balance sheet, which prompted ratings companies to upgrade it,
giving it cheaper rates in the market, Lurie said.  ‘Improving Story’  “While they’re building out their business and
reintroducing themselves as a whole new type of financing
structure, they’re looking to do so with a stronger balance
sheet,” Lurie said. “That’s why investors see them as
attractive, because they know that on a medium- to long-term
basis, they’re a credit that’s an improving story.”  S&P boosted the  firm  to BB- on March 9, three levels below
investment grade. CIT has “shifted towards a more bank-centric
business model: It has repaid or refinanced a material portion
of its high-cost debt, increased deposits, and moved many U.S.
originations to its commercial bank subsidiary, CIT Bank,”
analysts Brendan Browne and Rian Pressman said in an April 16
report.  Investor Willingness  Moody’s increased CIT to B1 in February, saying the lender
has diversified its funding sources, extended maturities and cut
encumbered assets, according to the Feb. 16 note.  After years of trying to reduce the amount of expensive
debt it holds on its balance sheet, “the job is nearly done,
thanks in part to the increased willingness of corporate bond
investors to buy the company’s unsecured debt,” Gimme Credit
LLC analyst  Kathleen Shanley  wrote in an Aug. 8 note.  CIT cut its long-term debt to $23.5 billion at the end of
the second quarter from $34 billion as of Dec. 31, 2010,
according to the note.  “The overall quality of CIT’s portfolio is currently
strong, but it can’t get much better from here, and the
company’s cost of funds is still higher than that of many of the
larger institutions it must compete with for customers,”
Shanley wrote in an e-mail. “With  interest rates  as low as they
are across the board, investors are reaching for yield, but
spreads on CIT paper could widen if any unexpected problems
emerge in their lending portfolio.”  Bond Spreads  Relative yields on CIT bonds have narrowed 255 basis points
this year to 310 basis points, or 3.1 percentage points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The
average spread on the bank’s U.S. High Yield, Diversified
Financial Services index has declined 306 basis points to 512 in
that period. CIT’s  shares  rallied 9.9 percent this year to
$38.32 Aug. 17, compared with 14.4 percent for the  S&P 500
Index , including reinvested dividends.  “I don’t see it as the juice being out of this one,”
Lurie said, estimating the company will return to investment
grade in late 2013 or early 2014. “Once they have their
financing structured in such a way that it’s the lowest cost
they can possibly get in a given time period, then they have to
focus on profitability, and that’s the next phase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  