-- An Obama Visit to Israel Could Stall Iran Attack
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-08-20T22:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/an-obama-visit-to-israel-could-stall-iran-attack.html
It has been a tumultuous couple of
weeks in the Iran-Israel War, and it hasn’t even started yet.  Over the past few days, Iranian leaders have promised
Israel’s coming destruction about half a dozen times, and have
gotten so overheated they’ve begun to mix metaphors: There has
been much talk about wiping the cancerous tumor of Zionism from
the map, and so on. The Iranians’ language has become
sufficiently  genocidal  that even the secretary general of the
 United Nations , not generally known as a hotbed of Zionist
feeling,  said  he was “dismayed by the remarks threatening
Israel’s existence.”  Israel’s leaders are also “dismayed.” But their dismay is
prompted by something much deeper than rhetoric. They understand
that much of the civilized world is prepared to live with a
nuclear  Iran , and they harbor seemingly ineradicable fears that
U.S. President  Barack Obama , and his Western allies, might
secretly be willing to do the same.  The Israelis -- Defense Minister  Ehud Barak , in particular
-- have been suggesting to the news media these past two weeks
that the time is nearly at hand for a strike on Iran’s nuclear
sites. Of course, Barak and Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
have been discussing the existential threat posed by Iran since
they came into office. (Netanyahu, in an interview with me three
years ago,  said  Iran was led by a “messianic, apocalyptic cult,”
and told me he thought the two great tasks before Obama were
fixing the  U.S. economy  and stopping Iran from crossing the
nuclear threshold.)  ‘Elevate the Urgency’  Which is partly why the White House seems to be taking the
most recent Israeli statements and strategic leaks in stride --
a bit too much in stride, in fact. They seem to be discounting
the rhetoric as idle threats. It’s clear to the White House that
“the Israelis feel the need to elevate the urgency on the
Iranian timeline,” according to a senior administration official
who declined to be identified. “They tend to do this from time
to time. It’s something we’ve learned to live with.”  There is, naturally, an element of gamesmanship to the
Israeli government’s media campaign. But one way to tell that
Netanyahu and Barak may actually be intent on striking Iran in
the coming weeks is that those Israelis who oppose a unilateral
strike appear to be panicking. Israel’s president,  Shimon Peres ,
is the most prominent. The Israeli presidency is mainly a
ceremonial post, and Peres crossed the line into overt political
interference last week when  he said  that Israel “cannot do it
alone.” He went on, “It is clear to us that we have to proceed
together with America.”  The Obama administration is adamantly opposed to an Israeli
strike this year, and is obviously also opposed to launching its
own attack in 2012. Administration officials believe that
Netanyahu and Barak should have faith in Obama’s assurances that
he’ll stop Iran, and that the U.S. has time before Iran crosses
the nuclear threshold. So far, though, the administration has
failed to convince the Israelis -- or the Arabs of the  Persian
Gulf , who also quake in fear of Iran -- that it will take
preventive military measures.  I think the president is serious about confronting the
threat. I also understand why  Israel ’s leaders are conditioned
to disbelieve him: Jewish history is strewn with examples of
promises unfulfilled and outright abandonment.  There is one sure way, though, that Obama can get his
message across, and that is to deliver it in Israel, and soon.  Face to Face  Amos Yadlin, a former chief of Israeli military
intelligence (and one of the pilots in the 1981 Israeli raid on
Iraq’s Osirak nuclear reactor), argues that Obama should visit
Israel to deliver a face-to-face message that stopping Iran is a
vital U.S. national security interest.  A visit to Israel would do more to delay a strike on Iran
than any other step the administration could take. The beauty of
this idea is that Obama won’t have to say anything new. He’s on
record explaining why the idea of containing a nuclear Iran
isn’t an option; he’s on record promising to stop Iran by
whatever means necessary; and he’s on record explaining why a
nuclear-free Iran is in the interests of the U.S.  “If Iran gets a nuclear weapon, this would run completely
contrary to my policies of nonproliferation,” he told me in an
interview this year.  When I asked him what his position would be if Israel were
not in the picture,  he answered : “It would still be a profound
national-security interest of the  United States  to prevent Iran
from getting a nuclear weapon.”  These words, delivered in the Oval Office, are powerful.
But delivered in  Jerusalem , before the Knesset, they would
deeply reassure the prime minister and the Israeli public. What
could be more effective than the U.S. president explaining to
Israelis, in Israel, that their two countries share the same
interests?  Yes, Obama is running for re-election, and it is hard to
leave Ohio and  Florida . But a trip to Israel -- a place he
hasn’t visited as president -- would put Iran on notice that
Obama is deadly serious about thwarting their plans. Combined
with stops in  Jordan  and  Saudi Arabia , such a visit would also
allay the fears of our Arab allies. Most important, such a visit
could prevent war. Which, of course, is a very presidential
thing to do.  (Jeffrey Goldberg is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the  municipal-bond market 
is safe and on U.S.  circumcision policies ;  Margaret Carlson  on
 “legitimate rape” and Paul Ryan ;  Peter Orszag  on the  false
promise that competition  can fix Medicare; William Pesek on
 Asia ’s challenge in  limiting smoking ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  partisan
rancor ; William Silber on  Paul Volcker’s early fight  against
inflation.  To contact the author of this column:
 Jeffrey Goldberg  at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 