-- Lance Armstrong Lawsuit Against USADA Dismissed by Judge
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-08-20T20:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/lance-armstrong-lawsuit-against-usada-dismissed-by-judge.html
Lance Armstrong’s cycling licenses
say he must arbitrate the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency’s claims he
took banned drugs, ruled a judge who said he was still troubled
by the targeting of the seven-time  Tour de France  champion.  U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks in Austin,  Texas , today
dismissed Armstrong’s lawsuit seeking to block USADA from
forcing him to defend allegations that he violated anti-doping
rules during his career. The cycling champion claimed USADA had
no authority over him and that its proceedings were rigged.  While rejecting Armstrong’s argument, Sparks said there
were “troubling aspects” of Armstrong’s lawsuit against the
organization, including the appearance of conflicts of interest
on the part of USADA and an international cycling federation
that has backed Armstrong’s position, as well as Armstrong’s
claims that USADA’s procedures violate his rights to see and
question the evidence against him before an arbitration hearing.  “Among the court’s concerns is the fact that USADA has
targeted Armstrong for prosecution many years after the alleged
doping violations occurred,” Sparks said. “Unfortunately, the
appearance of conflict on the part of both organizations creates
doubt the charges against Armstrong would receive fair
consideration in either forum.”  Consolidated Case  Sparks said USADA has consolidated Armstrong’s case with
those of several other alleged offenders over whom U.S. cycling
authorities have no authority. Armstrong alleged USADA has
promised lesser sanctions against other riders in exchange for
their testimony against him.  If true, “it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that
USADA is motivated more by politics and a desire for media
attention than faithful adherence to its obligations” to
international cycling rules, Sparks said.  Yet courts shouldn’t get involved in the matter, Sparks
said, ruling that the arbitration panel should sort out which
cycling federation has ultimate authority over the doping
allegations. He said that if Armstrong doesn’t receive advance
notice of the details of the allegations against him “and it is
brought to this court’s attention in an appropriate manner,
USADA is unlikely to appreciate the result.”  ‘All Along’  Tim Herman, Armstrong’s attorney, said the ruling
“confirms what we have said all along.” He said in an e-mail
that he is reviewing the opinion and weighing Armstrong’s
options.  USADA, the national anti-doping organization for Olympic
sports, notified Armstrong in June that he, three doctors and
two officials from the cyclist’s former U.S. Postal Service
racing team were accused of using and trafficking prohibited
drugs, according to court filings. An independent panel of
arbitrators would decide the matter, the  Colorado Springs ,
Colorado-based agency said.  “We look forward to a timely, public arbitration hearing
in this case, should Mr. Armstrong choose, where the evidence
can be presented, witness testimony will be given under oath and
subject to cross-examination, and an independent panel of
arbitrators will determine the outcome,” Travis Tygart, USADA’s
chief executive officer, said in an e-mail.  The agency’s lawyers argued in court papers that Armstrong
is subject to U.S. anti-doping rules and the association’s
procedures, including its requirement that allegations be
resolved through arbitration.  Cycling Federation  Armstrong’s attorneys said the Union Cycliste
International, an international cycling federation based in
 Switzerland , has exclusive jurisdiction over drug tests,
disciplinary actions and other matters covered by the USADA’s
claims.  The UCI agreed, and its attorneys said in court papers that
USADA should turn over its files on Armstrong to the federation,
noting USADA’s allegations against Armstrong are based only on
witness statements.  Armstrong says he has never failed a drug test. USADA
attorney William Bock said at an Aug. 17 court hearing that the
association doesn’t have a positive drug test for Armstrong.  “UCI took the position that it had jurisdiction for
results management and proposed that a third neutral and
independent body should decide, based upon the evidence in
USADA’s file, whether  Lance Armstrong  had a case to answer or
not,” the cycling federation said in an e-mailed statement.
“The UCI notes that, according to the U.S. court, an
arbitration proceeding should meet its concerns.”  Armstrong, 40, won the Tour de  France  every year from 1999
to 2005, survived testicular cancer and created Livestrong, a
cancer charity. In February, federal prosecutors in  Los Angeles 
ended a criminal probe involving Armstrong and his professional
bicycle racing team without filing charges. Armstrong has denied
taking performance-enhancing drugs.  The case is Armstrong v. U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, 1:12-cv-
00606, U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  