-- Manchester United Is Offered Kaka, Signs Dutch Defender: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-20T06:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/manchester-united-is-offered-kaka-signs-dutch-defender-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Playmaker Proposal  Real Madrid offered Brazilian playmaker Kaka, the 2007
World Player of the Year, to  Manchester United  on a season-long
loan as the Spanish club prepares for the arrival of Luka Modric
from Tottenham Hotspur, the  Daily Mail reported .  United manager  Alex Ferguson  is giving the move serious
consideration even though he has concerns about the form and
fitness of Kaka, 30, the Mail added.  Defensive Cover  United bought Dutch left-back Alexander Buttner, 23, from
 Vitesse Arnhem  as defensive cover, the  Guardian reported .  Buttner, who was part of the Netherlands’ wider training
group before being omitted from its European Championship squad,
is said to have cost 3.9 million pounds ($6.1 million), the
Guardian added.  Four-Year Contract  England striker  Danny Welbeck , 21, will this week sign a
new four-year contract with United, the  Sun reported .  Welbeck’s new deal is worth about 50,000 pounds a week,
treble his current wage, and contains incentives which could see
it rise to 70,000 pounds a week, the Sun added.  Aguero’s Injury  Manchester City striker  Sergio Aguero  will be playing again
within weeks after an initial examination of the knee he twisted
during yesterday’s 3-2 win against Southampton revealed no
serious injury, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Argentine will have more tests this week to determine
the extent of the damage, the newspaper added.  “The studies I had done revealed there’s no significant
injury but it was a very tough hit to my knee,” Aguero wrote on
his Twitter feed. “The physicians will evaluate the time it
will take for me to recover.”  Song Sale  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  offloaded  Alex Song  to
Barcelona for 15 million pounds after losing patience with the
midfielder’s attitude, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Gunners decided to sell Song, 24, because the Cameroon
national team player continually turned up late for training,
was seen as being lazy, was hard to coach and lacked defensive
discipline, the newspaper added.  Chamakh Loan  Tottenham made an inquiry about taking Arsenal striker
Marouane Chamakh on loan, the  Mirror reported .  Spurs are exploring their options because  Jermain Defoe  is
the only senior striker in the squad and a move for Emmanuel Adebayor has stalled, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  