-- Apple Reaches Record U.S. Market Value on IPhone Optimism
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-21T13:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/apple-on-track-to-top-microsoft-record-closing-market-cap.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  set a U.S. record for
market value, surpassing the high mark reached by  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  during the Internet heyday, on optimism that the next
version of the iPhone will meet strong sales.  The shares of Cupertino, California-based Apple rose 2.6
percent to $665.15 at the close in New York yesterday, for a
market value of $623.5 billion. That overtook Microsoft’s $616.3
billion closing market capitalization on Dec. 27, 1999,
according to data compiled by S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC. Apple
extended the gains today, advancing as much as 1.5 percent.  Apple is preparing to introduce the next version of the
iPhone on Sept. 12 in what will be a design overhaul of its top-
selling product, two people with knowledge of the company’s
plans said last month. The next iPhone “could be the most
impactful product upgrade in Apple’s history” and the company
will probably sell as many as 250 million units over the life of
the device, according to analysts at FBR Capital Markets.  “With the iPhone they have successfully created a strong
customer following in an absolutely enormous marketplace,”  Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said
yesterday. “They have captured the hearts and minds of
consumers.”  Apple gets about 70 percent of its profit from the iPhone,
Sacconaghi said. The company’s stock has risen an average of 11
percent in the two months before previous iPhone updates have
been released, he said.  The new iPhone will have a larger screen and thinner body,
and is expected to work with faster, long-term evolution
wireless networks being introduced by carriers such as  Verizon
Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , according to analysts including  Piper
Jaffray Cos. (PJC) ’  Gene Munster .  Smaller IPad  In addition to the iPhone, Apple also plans to introduce a
smaller, cheaper iPad by the end of this year, people familiar
with the plans said in July.  Apple, already the world’s most valuable company, has
surged more than sevenfold since the iPhone debuted in January
2007. The stock had climbed 64 percent this year through
yesterday. Apple rose 1.1 percent to $672.61 at 9:47 a.m. in  New
York , and earlier touched $674.88.  Because Microsoft’s record was set during the Internet
boom, when valuations were inflated by predictions that later
failed to materialize, a more significant long-term milestone
would be if Apple’s market value tops $1 trillion,  David Yoffie ,
a Harvard Business School professor who has written about Apple,
said in an interview yesterday.  “We’re in a period now of much more normalcy, which makes
Apple’s accomplishments even more impressive,” Yoffie said.  ‘Easily Justified’  While the popularity of the iPhone and iPad make it
possible that Apple might surpass that $1 trillion mark, it can
be difficult for technology companies to sustain a run of
successes like Apple has had over the past decade, he said.  “It doesn’t take much to miss a cycle,” Yoffie said.
“Right now this valuation is premised on iPhone 5 and a new
smaller iPad coming out, and if these are very good or great
products then the valuation will be easily justified. If for any
reason they have a hiccup on any of these products, then Apple
would be vulnerable.”  PetroChina Co. became the world’s first company to be
valued at $1 trillion, when the shares almost tripled on its
first day of trading in  Shanghai  in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  