-- Argentina Sovereign-Immunity Argument Rejected by Court
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-20T18:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/argentina-sovereign-immunity-argument-rejected-by-u-s-court.html
A federal appeals court in  New York 
rejected Argentina’s argument that its sovereign immunity was
affected by a lower-court ruling compelling compliance with
subpoenas sought by NML Capital Ltd. for collection of five
money judgments.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  today upheld a September 2011
ruling by U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in  Manhattan ,
ordering non-parties  Bank of America Corp.  and state-owned Banco
de la Nacion Argentina to comply with the subpoenas, rejecting
Argentina’s argument that its sovereign immunity was affected.  The judgment stems from Argentina’s 2001 default on
$80 billion owed to foreign creditors. Beginning in 2003, NML
filed 11 actions in federal court in New York seeking to collect
on its defaulted Argentine bonds. NML has won five money
judgments in its favor totaling about $1.6 billion. Griesa has
also granted summary judgment to NML in six other actions in
which NML claims total more than $900 million, the appeals court
said today.  NML, an Elliott Management Corp. affiliate, has sought
“discovery” or evidence about  Argentina ’s property and served
subpoenas on Bank of America and BNA, seeking to gain an
understanding of how Argentina moves its assets. After Griesa
granted the request, Argentina appealed, saying that by
compelling disclosure about Argentinian assets abroad, the order
violates the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act.  ‘Not Infringed’  “Because the discovery order involves discovery, not
attachment of sovereign property, and because it is directed at
third-party banks, not at Argentina itself, Argentina’s
sovereign immunity is not infringed,” the appeals court held.
“The district court therefore did not abuse its discretion in
ordering BOA and BNA to comply with NML’s subpoenas.”  Jonathan Blackman, a lawyer representing Argentina, didn’t
return a telephone call seeking comment about the ruling.  Peter Truell , a spokesman for Elliott Management, declined
to comment on the decision.  In today’s ruling, the appeals court said that Griesa’s
discovery order doesn’t infringe on any immunity from the
district court’s jurisdiction that Argentina otherwise might
enjoy.  “Whatever hurdles NML faces before ultimately attaching
Argentina’s property abroad (and we have no doubt there will be
some), it need not satisfy the stringent requirements for
attachment in order to simply receive information about
Argentina’s assets,” the appeals court said.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 11-
CV-4065, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  