-- Asia Currencies Drop as Slowing Europe, China Sap Export Outlook
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-08-20T08:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/asia-currencies-drop-as-slowing-europe-china-sap-export-outlook.html
Asian currencies weakened amid
concern Europe’s debt crisis and the slowing Chinese economy are
worsening the outlook for the region’s overseas sales.  Taiwan  reported today export orders, an indication of
shipments in the next one to three months, fell more than
economists predicted in July, while Thailand cut forecasts for
overseas sales and economic growth this year, citing the global
slowdown. Euro-area finance ministers are expected to meet in
 Athens  this week to discuss Greek Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras’ request for a two-year extension of the country’s
fiscal adjustment program.  South Korea’s won fell 0.1 percent to 1,135.55 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Thailand’s baht was
unchanged at 31.52 after touching a two-week low of 31.62
earlier. The Bloomberg JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index declined for a
second day as regional stocks dropped. Onshore financial markets
in Indonesia, the  Philippines , Singapore, Malaysia and India are
closed today for public holidays.  “Export outlooks for many Asian countries are quite dull
with  Europe ’s crisis and China’s slowdown,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in Tokyo.  Thai gross domestic product increased 4.2 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, official data showed today,
more than the 3.1 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
The economy will expand 5.5 percent to 6 percent in 2012,
compared with a previous estimate 5.5 percent to 6.5 percent,
the National Economic and Social Development Board said today.
It also reduced its forecast for full-year export growth to 7.3
percent from 15.1 percent.  Weaker Thai Outlook  “The data was for the second quarter and the outlook is
expected to be weaker,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income
strategist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong. “Export data
has already shown weakness.”  The won touched the weakest level since Aug. 3 after data
this month showed Korean  exports  fell 8.8 percent in July from a
year earlier, the biggest drop in almost three years, while the
central bank kept  interest rates  unchanged at 3 percent.  “Investors are cautious and waiting to see if the
politicians in Europe will be able to do something to turn
things around,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “Although the central bank didn’t
cut rates this month, we’re still expecting one reduction this
year.”  Yuan Steady  China’s  yuan  was little changed at 6.3594 per dollar in
 Shanghai . The central bank weakened the currency’s daily fixing
by 0.05 percent to 6.3478 after a commentary in the Financial
News, controlled by the monetary authority, on Aug. 18 suggested
the PBOC has no intention of cutting lenders’ reserves
requirements in the short term to support the economy.  “Investors aren’t so active as they are waiting for more
clarity on Chinese government policy,” said Banny Lam, chief
economist at CCB International Securities in  Hong Kong . “The
yuan is likely to stay steady on thin trading.”  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar closed little changed at
NT$30.030 against its U.S. counterpart, while Vietnam’s dong was
unchanged at 20,845.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  