-- Augusta Surprises Membership With Announcement of First Females
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/augusta-national-adds-rice-moore-as-first-female-members.html
The news that Augusta National Golf
Club had invited Condoleezza Rice and Darla Moore to join  Bill
Gates  and  Warren Buffett  as its newest members came as a
surprise even to some who already have a green jacket.  The membership wasn’t told in advance of the two women
being admitted, according to two longtime members who said they
learned about it from the media. They weren’t identified because
the club told members not to speak to the press. Existing
members are typically notified of new members in a letter after
they have been accepted.  The decision by  Billy Payne , chairman of Augusta National
and its annual  Masters Tournament , to disclose the newest
members in a public statement is a change from the longstanding
tradition of not discussing private matters. The club, which
opened in 1932 in Augusta,  Georgia , has never publicly
acknowledged the names of its members.  “We are fortunate to consider many qualified candidates
for membership at Augusta National,” Payne said in an e-mailed
statement. “Consideration with regard to any candidate is
deliberate, held in strict confidence and always takes place
over an extended period of time. The process for Condoleezza and
Darla was no different.”  The addition of Rice and Moore follows almost a decade of
scrutiny of Augusta’s all-male membership. In 2003, William
“Hootie” Johnson, the organization’s former chairman, said it
wouldn’t admit a woman “at the point of a bayonet,” leading to
a protest near the club during the 2003 Masters.  Johnson and Moore are both graduates of the University of
South Carolina. Moore, the wife of billionaire investor Richard
Rainwater, has donated more than $70 million to the university’s
business school, which was named after her in 1998.  Renewed Scrutiny  The club faced renewed scrutiny this year over its lack of
female members amid questions about a possible invitation to
Ginni Rometty, chief executive officer of  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)   “This is wonderful news,” Johnson said in a statement to
the State newspaper in Columbia, South Carolina. “I could not
be more pleased. Darla Moore is my good friend, and I know she
and  Condoleezza Rice  will enjoy the club as much as I have.”  Rice, 57, is a member of several golf clubs, including
Shoal Creek in Alabama and Cypress Point in California.  “I have long admired the important role Augusta National
has played in the traditions and history of golf,” Rice said in
a statement released by the club. “I also have an immense
respect for the Masters tournament and its commitment to grow
the game of golf, particularly with youth, here in the United
States and throughout the world.”  An avid golfer, Rice served as the honorary chairman for
the Regions Tradition, a tournament on the 50-and-over Champions
Tour, at Shoal Creek in June. She played in the event’s Pro-Am
tournament with Earnie Deavenport, an Augusta National member.  Rice’s Handicap  Rice has a 12.1 handicap, a measure of a golfer’s playing
ability, and most recently posted scores of 88, 92 and 89,
according to the U.S. Golf Association’s website. There was no
handicap listed for Moore, who is a partner at Rainwater, an
investment firm.  The two will be presented their members’ green jackets when
the club opens this autumn, Payne said in his statement. He was
not more specific.  Tiger Woods  called the decision “important to golf.”  “The club continues to demonstrate its commitment to
impacting the game in positive ways,” Woods said in a
statement.  Atlanta Olympics  Business colleagues and close friends who worked with Payne
on bringing the 1996 Olympics to Atlanta and running it said the
former  University of Georgia  football player has wanted to add
women to the membership since becoming chairman six years ago.  “Certainly during the Olympics, Billy Payne was an
advocate for diversity in both hiring and procurement, to a
degree that was unusual even for the Olympics,” former Atlanta
Mayor Shirley Franklin, who worked with Payne during the
Olympics, said in a telephone interview in April. “He took real
risks in those areas.”  Franklin predicted in a 2007 interview that Payne would
shake up the club’s old-fashioned image and traditions: “Billy
is not a crusty old man,” she said then.  Payne was criticized during this year’s Masters when he
touted the club’s initiatives to expand the popularity of golf
during a pretournament news conference while refusing to answer
questions about excluding women.  Older Members  Cindy Fowler, who has known Payne since 1987 and worked
closely with him as a member of his inner circle at the Atlanta
Committee for the  Olympic Games , said Payne’s delay in adding
women was probably due to his attempts to please the club’s
older members.  Adding women will change the club’s inner dynamics, said
Fowler, now CEO of Presenting Atlanta, an event management firm
that has organized parties and dinners at Augusta National. She
describes Payne as a smart, articulate, driven perfectionist who
wants “to do the right thing.”  The club’s male-only culture is underscored by four member
tournaments that are held each year. They are stag events, with
no wives present, according to club historians.  The “Jamboree” tournament in March, on a weekend shortly
before the Masters, is particularly known for its male bonding.
A clubhouse dinner is accompanied by skits, story telling and
films or videos.  Women’s Tees  Augusta has allowed women to play the course, which doesn’t
have a formal set of women’s tees, for decades.  “There is a misnomer that women aren’t allowed,”  Kelley
Hester , 38, the women’s golf coach at Furman University in
Greenville,  South Carolina , said in a telephone interview. As
head coach of the University of Georgia women’s team from
2007-12, Hester accompanied the team during annual visits to
Augusta.  While at the club, women are permitted to use the private
Champions’ locker room and have full access to the grounds,
Hester said.  “They were always very welcoming,” she said. “Everyone
on the grounds is always treated with respect whether you’re a
man or a woman or member or not. They respect good players
there, too.”  While many of the world’s top executives have shied away
from commenting on the club’s membership, Augusta member Buffett
said in May that he would add women if he was in charge.  Buffett’s Opinion  “If I were running the club I’d have plenty of women,”
Buffett, chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said in a May 6
interview with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” following his company’s annual meeting in Omaha,
Nebraska.  Rometty, who became IBM’s first female CEO in its 100-year
history in January, didn’t join Rice and Moore as a new member.
Augusta National has historically invited the CEO of IBM to join
the club, including the company’s four previous chief
executives.  Rometty, 55, has said she does play golf, though only
occasionally.  IBM airs TV commercials during Masters broadcasts and has
run the masters.com website since 1996.  Edward Barbini , a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
didn’t respond to a call for comment yesterday. The company has
previously declined to comment on the issue.  AT&T’s Support  AT&T Inc. (T) , another sponsor of the Masters tournament,
expressed support for the organization’s decision.  “We applaud today’s historic announcement by Augusta
National and warmly welcome Condoleezza Rice and Darla Moore as
members of Augusta National,” CEO  Randall Stephenson  said in an
e-mailed statement.  U.S. PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem said in a statement
that the move “sends a positive and inclusive message for our
sport.”  Nine years ago, Martha Burk, then head of the National
Council of Women’s Organizations, staged a protest near the
front entrance of the club founded in 1933 by golf champion
 Bobby Jones  and Wall Street financier Clifford Roberts.  Augusta didn’t have a black member until 1990, when it
extended an invitation to  Gannett Co. (GCI)  television President Ron Townsend, who still belongs. That move followed the PGA of
America’s decision to move its annual championship, the season’s
final golf major, from Alabama’s Shoal Creek because of that
club’s all-white membership.  The end of Augusta’s all-male membership “is really
overdue” and “symbolic about where the South is moving,” said
Laura Turner Seydel, daughter of billionaire  Ted Turner , founder
of the Cable News Network, now part of  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)   “Augusta National was one of those patriarchal strongholds
in the U.S.,” Seydel said in an interview at the Rotary Club of
Atlanta. “It’s really important that we see this progressive
behavior where women have equal rights as men, in the boardroom,
as corporate executives and in clubs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  