-- Australian Dollar Gains Against Majors After RBA Minutes
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-08-21T21:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/aussie-kiwi-hold-advance-before-european-leaders-meet.html
The Australian dollar rose for a
second day against its U.S. peer after minutes showed the
central bank saw domestic economic growth overshadowing a
“fragile” global outlook at its Aug. 7 policy meeting.  The so-called Aussie gained against most of its major peers
as the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  made no mention of intervening
to curb the currency’s strength, which has persisted despite a
decline in the terms of trade. The Australian and  New Zealand 
currencies were also buoyed by speculation talks among European
leaders this week will lead to stronger measures to counter the
region’s debt crisis, boosting risk demand.  “The market was looking for a fair bit more commentary on
the Aussie dollar itself,” said David Forrester, senior vice-
president for Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Macquarie
Bank Ltd. in  Singapore , after the RBA’s last monetary policy
statement when it “seemed to ramp up its rhetoric about the
currency.”  The Australian dollar rose, climbing 0.4 percent to $1.0486
yesterday in  New York  after rising 0.2 percent on Aug. 20.  New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, gained 0.5
percent to 81.27 U.S. cents.  The RBA’s decision to leave its benchmark rate unchanged at
3.5 percent was “appropriate” given the outlook for domestic
inflation and growth even though “the global economic
environment remained fragile,” according to the minutes
released yesterday.  ‘Global Outlook’  The bank also said that the Australian dollar exchange rate
“had remained at a relatively high level notwithstanding the
weakening in the global outlook and decline in commodity
prices.”  The Australian dollar has risen 2.7 percent versus the
greenback this year even as the ratio of export prices to import
prices has fallen by 17 percent, according to a Citigroup Inc.
 index .  “The sense that we’re getting across our trading desk is
that a number of investors were short heading into these
minutes, expecting some sort of comment possibly on
intervention, and we’re just seeing those positions unwound,”
said  Andrew Salter , a strategist in Sydney at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  A short position is a bet that a
currency or asset will decline in value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  