-- Australian Dollar Strengthens Before Euro Crisis Talks
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-08-20T21:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/aussie-trades-near-august-low-as-fed-stimulus-bets-drop.html
The Australian dollar rose against
all of its major counterparts before Europe’s leaders meet this
week to discuss measures to stem the region’s debt crisis.  The Aussie strengthened versus the yen on prospects the
 European Central Bank  will try to cap bond yields in the euro
area, supporting investor appetite for riskier assets. Gains by
the Australian and New Zealand dollars against their U.S. peer
were tempered by prospects the Federal Reserve will refrain from
further monetary stimulus, which could debase the greenback.  “While the Aussie might still be a little bit pricey at
$1.04, I don’t think you want to be aggressive about short
positions,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “I think the news out of
Europe is getting a little better.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.0444 yesterday
in New York. New Zealand’s currency gained 0.1 percent to 80.92
U.S. cents.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Francois Hollande  meet in Berlin on Aug. 23 to discuss the debt
crisis, and both are set to meet separately with Greece’s Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras later in the week. Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of euro-area
finance ministers, is also scheduled to discuss Greece’s fiscal
adjustment program when he visits Athens tomorrow.  The ECB may set limits on yields of euro-area sovereign
debt by pledging unlimited bond purchases, Germany’s Spiegel
magazine reported Aug. 19, without saying where it obtained the
information. The policy will be decided at the September
governing council meeting, Spiegel said.  Fed Policy  In the U.S., the Fed’s rate-setting committee will release
minutes today of its most recent meeting at which it avoided
adding to measures to boost the economy. The central bank, whose
next meeting is scheduled for Sept. 12-13, has already purchased
$2.3 trillion in assets and pledged to keep its key rate near
zero at least through late 2014 to bolster growth.  Australia’s central bank will publish records of its
deliberations today. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia kept its key
rate at 3.5 percent on Aug. 7, having reduced the benchmark by
1.25 percentage points since November.  “The rhetoric from the RBA indicates a very high hurdle to
moving policy from here,” said  John Horner , a Sydney-based
currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG. “They appear quite
comfortably on hold and we’d expect this week’s communication to
reinforce that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  