-- Australia Bond Risk Falls to April Low on Europe, U.S. Optimism
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-08-20T05:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/australia-bond-risk-falls-to-april-low-on-europe-u-s-optimism.html
The cost of insuring Australian
company bonds from default fell to the least since April after
U.S. economic data beat estimates and as leaders in Europe plan
debt-crisis talks. Bond risk in  Asia  also dropped.  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  declined 2 basis points to 153
basis points at 10:54 a.m. in Sydney,  National Australia Bank
Ltd. (NAB)  prices show. The gauge is on course for the lowest close
since April 6, according to data provider CMA.  Market sentiment improved last week amid optimism central
banks would take more measures to promote growth and as U.S.
data showed signs of sustained expansion in the world’s largest
economy. The yield premium on  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) ’s February 2018
bonds, the largest dollar-denominated debt sale from the Asia-
Pacific region last week, narrowed to 366 basis points today
from 400 when the notes were sold on Aug. 14, BNP Paribas SA
prices show.  The credit-default swap rally is the “result of much
better rhetoric out of Europe, strong U.S. economic numbers and
a lack of bad news headlines,” said Jason Watts, the Sydney-
based head of credit trading at National Australia Bank.
“There’s also a fear of fund managers missing out on returns
and a self-fulfilling risk on trade as funds scramble for
assets.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
corporate bonds instead of government debt was 229 basis points
on Aug. 16, the least since September, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. The spread was 243 basis
points at the beginning of August.  Europe Talks  Europe’s lenders are planning a week of intensive shuttle
diplomacy to help defuse the continent’s debt crisis amid
dissension on the  European Central Bank ’s role and how to help
Greece.  The ECB is considering setting limits on yields of euro
area sovereign debt by pledging unlimited bond purchases,
Germany’s Spiegel magazine reported yesterday, without saying
where it obtained the information.  An index of U.S. leading economic indicators climbed more
than forecast in July, and  consumer confidence  unexpectedly
improved this month, data released Aug. 17 showed.  ICICI’s $750 million offering last week was the largest of
three sales by Indian banks, the only borrowers from the Asia-
Pacific region to sell U.S. dollar bonds in the period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) ’s $500 million of securities were
yielding 376 basis points more than Treasuries as of 9:55 a.m.
in Mumbai, from an issue spread of 405 basis points on Aug. 13,
BNP prices show.  Union Bank of India (UNBK) ’s $350 million of five-year bonds,
priced to yield 390 basis points more than the benchmark on Aug.
15, offered a 385 basis-point premium today, the prices show.  Bond Risk  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  fell 2 basis points to 147.5 as of 8:52
a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index was little changed at 186
basis points as of 9:48 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices
show. The benchmark has traded between 184 and 207 basis points
this month, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  