-- Expedia, Starwood, Marriott Named in Price-Fixing Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-08-20T21:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/law-firm-files-class-action-suit-against-travel-sites-hotels.html
Expedia Inc.,  Starwood Hotels (HOT)  &
Resorts Worldwide Inc. and  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , are
among a group of online travel sites and hotels accused of
conspiring to fix prices for hotel rooms.  The sites and hotels are named in a complaint filed today
in federal court in San Francisco on behalf of hotel-room
purchasers nationwide. The plaintiffs, one a resident of
Chicago, the other of Cedar Falls, Iowa, seek unspecified
damages and a court order to end the alleged price fixing.  “The large online travel sites, working with hotel chains,
have created the illusion that savvy consumers can spend time
researching hotel rates online to find good deals,”  Steve
Berman , a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in a statement. “The
reality is that these illegal price-parity agreements mean
consumers see nothing but cosmetic differences and the same
prices on every site.”  The large online travel sites, including Expedia,
Travelocity, a unit of Sabre Holdings Corp., and Booking.com, a
unit of  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) , extracted so-called resale price
maintenance agreements from the hotel chains, according to the
statement.  The travel sites sought the agreements to prevent the
hotels from selling blocks of unsold rooms at the last minute to
third-party wholesalers that sell them to smaller, price cutting
online retailers, according to the statement. The agreements set
a fixed price below which the hotels can’t sell the rooms to
wholesalers, according the statement.  Representatives of the travel sites and the hotels didn’t 
immediately return calls for comment on the allegations.  The case is Turik v. Expedia, 12-4365, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Francisco .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 