-- Hawking World’s Deadliest Product Just Got Harder
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-08-20T21:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/hawking-world-s-deadliest-product-just-got-harder.html
The world’s tobacco merchants are
down on  Australia  after the country’s highest court backed the
toughest cigarette-labeling rules anywhere.  So far, the focus has been on intellectual-property rights,
possible lawsuits by British American Tobacco Plc,  Japan Tobacco
Inc. (2914)  and their ilk, and the plight of investors. More attention
should be on how many lives will be saved and how much economic
output won’t be squandered as other nations follow Australia’s
lead.  There’s a reason Big Tobacco waged such a ferocious fight
against Australia’s ban on logos and requirements for graphic
health warnings that cover 90 percent of the back of cigarette
packs and 70 percent of the front. Should this precedent spread,
and there’s every reason to think it will, it would hasten the
end of the industry’s run of growth and profitability.  One figure explains why Asian governments should emulate
Australia: $193 billion. That’s how much smoking-related illness
and lost productivity costs the  U.S. economy  alone each year,
according to the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention .
That loss is greater than the annual output of nations such as
Kazakhstan, Peru and  Romania .  China’s Losses  Or consider all the lives that will be snuffed out because
of smoking in  China : 3.5 million a year by 2030. That figure
comes from a 2011 report by prominent Chinese health experts who
can only imagine the drag on productivity and growth that will
be lost in the second-biggest economy as more of its 1.3 billion
people smoke.  That more Chinese do so is certainly the hope of cigarette
makers. As developed nations impose higher taxes, limits on
advertising, and smoking bans in public places, Asia beckons. It
is the same strategy being pursued by other product makers.
Consumers in the West are aging and consuming less. Executives
at multinational companies see opportunities to sell more cars,
handbags, air conditioners, movies and wine in the East. With
shareholders looking over their shoulders, they have no choice
but to respond to market demand.  The economic fallout of this shift should be tallied by
 Asian governments . They must raise cigarette taxes to finance
the resulting increase in health-care costs and initiate anti-
smoking educational campaigns. They also must reconsider the
fiscal trap inherent in current policies.  Japan  is a perfect example. Japan Tobacco is 50 percent
government-owned. This unseemly arrangement creates a toxic
conflict of interest: Politicians are hardly inclined to do
anything to hurt profits or the nice flow of revenue from excise
taxes. Even after a series of tax increases, cigarettes in  Tokyo 
are still less than half the  price  consumers pay in  New York .  You can almost understand the dilemma of Japan’s lawmakers.
The country is burdened with more debt relative to its size than
any developed country, and government officials need all the
revenue they can get. So do Japan’s counterparts in China. That
also explains why leaders in other Asian countries tend to put
the interests of tobacco profiteers ahead of public health.  The good news is that the U.K. and  New Zealand  are among
the countries likely to copy Australia. Others will hopefully
follow over time. Australia, after all, has done all it can
short of banning tobacco, or making it a prescription drug. As
these efforts spread, will developed and developing nations get
the message?  Maybe Asian policy makers should consider their demographic
comparative advantage. Nations such as China and  Indonesia  can’t
talk enough about their youthful populations. In Indonesia, for
example, 26 percent of the nation’s 253 million people are less
than 15 years old. In the  Philippines , it’s 34 percent. Those
are enticing audiences for cigarette makers.  Unstoppable Force  It’s up to leaders to understand the risks and minimize the
potential economic harm. China could endure the equivalent of
the population of Lithuania dying annually from smoking-related
disease. Does that strike anyone as a sign that China policy
makers are infallible? The unstoppable  economic force  that’s an
inspiration for developing nations the world over?  Other Asian nations must be careful, too. The close ties
between governments and tobacco interests are emblematic of the
region’s vulnerabilities. Asians should smoke less, but
priorities at the government level encourage them to light up.  Granted, Australia, with $1.4 trillion of output and 22
million people, is a small country. But it has proven itself to
be a leader in other areas, such as using carbon credits to
reduce  greenhouse gases  and the effects of  climate change .
Clamping down on tobacco merchants is another example of that
national foresight. And it’s a reason for cigarette makers to
worry.  Consider how rapidly smoking bans are taking affect -- from
Ireland to  Germany  to the U.S. and, of course, Australia.
Really, who would have thought five years ago that you could
have a coffee in a Paris cafe without getting smoked out? It
makes you wonder what it will be like in 20 years if lighting a
cigarette in public becomes an act that leads to pariah status.
Smokers, not to mention  tobacco companies , may complain about
that turn of events; economists won’t.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo (NKY)  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  