-- Banks Use $1.77 Trillion to Double Treasury Purchases
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-08-20T18:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/banks-use-1-77-trillion-to-double-treasury-purchases.html
The gap between U.S. bank deposits
and loans is growing at the fastest pace in two years, providing
lenders with more funds to buy bonds and temper the biggest
sell-off in Treasuries since 2010.  As deposits increased 3.3 percent to $8.88 trillion in the
two months ended July 31, business lending rose 0.7 percent to
$7.11 trillion,  Federal Reserve  data show. The record gap of
$1.77 trillion has expanded 15 percent since May, the biggest
similar-period gain since July, 2010. Banks have already  bought 
$136.4 billion in Treasury and government agency debt this year,
more than double the $62.6 billion in all of 2011, pushing their
holdings to an all-time high of $1.84 trillion.  Faced with a slowing U.S. economy, unemployment above 8
percent for more than three years and regulations forcing them
to hold more and higher-quality assets, banks are lending at
below pre-recession levels. The bond purchases help explain why
even after rising this month, Treasury 10-year note rates are
about half the 3.5 percent median forecast of 43 economists in a
Bloomberg survey a year ago.  “Bank deposits continue to explode and in turn they
continue to buy Treasuries as the economy loses momentum,
inflation is trending down,  Europe  continues to hang over our
heads and political uncertainty reigns” said Michael Mata, a
 money manager  in Atlanta at ING Investment Management Americas,
which oversees about $160 billion. “There is no reason for
 interest rates  to climb in any meaningful way any time soon.”  Borrowing Rises  While the gap has narrowed to $1.75 trillion as of Aug. 8
as lending of $7.12 trillion trailed $8.87 trillion in deposits,
the gap is more than 17 times the $100 billion average in the
decade before credit markets seized up, Fed data show.  Commercial and industrial lending reached a  peak  of $1.61
trillion in October 2008, a month after the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. As the credit crisis deepened, loans
tumbled to $1.2 trillion two years later, before recovering to
$1.46 trillion Aug. 1.  The recent rise isn’t keeping up with record bank  deposits 
as  savings  of U.S. households have risen to 4.4 percent of
incomes as of June from 1.7 percent in 2007, the data show.  “Every bank is looking for a way to increase their
yield,” said Mike Pearce, president of Bank of The West in
Grapevine,  Texas , whose company has been purchasing  government
securities  after deposits grew faster than loans in 2010 and
2011. Instead of earning the Federal Funds rate of zero to 0.25
percent on the deposits, its bond holdings are yielding about
3.25 percent, he said.  Seeking Safety  Bank Treasury holdings reached $500  billion , the highest
since June 2011, even with interest rates minus inflation for
benchmark 10-year notes of 0.38 percent, compared to the average
of 1.26 percent over the past decade.  Yields on 10-year Treasury  notes  rose 15 basis points, or
0.15 percentage point, last week to 1.81 percent. The price of
the 1.625 percent security maturing in August 2022 declined 1
12/32, or $13.75 per $1,000 face value, or 98 9/32. The yield
was little changed to 1.81 percent today.  They increased from a record low 1.379 percent on July 25
as investors became more optimistic about the economy. The U.S.
added 163,000 jobs last month, a government report showed Aug.
3, more than the 100,000 projected by analysts. Sales at U.S.
retailers increased 0.8 percent, more than the 0.3 percent
forecast and following a 0.5 percent slide in June, Commerce
Department data released Aug. 14 showed.  Rate Forecast  The benchmark notes will yield 1.60 percent by the end of
September, below June’s projection of 1.90 percent, median
estimates in separate Bloomberg surveys show. The year-end
forecast fell to 1.65 percent from 2.1 percent.  Banks may be forced into more risky assets and lending
practices if yields continue to hover about record low levels,
said  David Hendler , an analyst at financial research firm
CreditSights Inc. in  New York . Their net interest margin, a
measure of lending profitability, has declined to 3.52 percent,
the lowest since 2009, according to FDIC data.  “It doesn’t pay to be aggressive right now if you are a
bank, but continuing to buy bonds near these levels is not
sustainable in the long run,” Hendler said in an Aug. 14
telephone interview.  The Federal Reserve said in its quarterly survey of senior
loan officers, released Aug. 6, that “domestic banks, on
balance, continued to report having eased their lending
standards across most loan types over the past three months.”
Lending standards for large and medium-sized firms loosened,
while those for small business were little changed for the
fourth consecutive period.  Recession Legacy  Wall Street’s five biggest banks are off to their worst
start in four years.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of America
Corp., Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley had combined first-half revenue of $161 billion, down
4.5 percent from 2011 and the lowest since $135 billion in 2008.
The firms blamed the decline on low interest rates and a drop in
trading and deal-making.  Low government bond yields are a legacy of the credit
crisis that caused more than $2 trillion in write downs and
losses at global financial institutions, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  After cutting its target rate for overnight loans between
banks in 2008 to a range of zero to 0.25 percent, the Fed under
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt to reduce market interest rates and
stimulate the economy.  The central bank owned $1.66 trillion of Treasuries as of
August, ahead of  China ’s $1.16 trillion.  Extra Deposits  Investors are more willing to accept low yields “when you
have large demand from the Fed as well as natural demand from
banks,” said Matthew Duch, a fixed-income money manager at
Calvert Investments, which oversees more than $12 billion in
assets. “Are bonds where banks want to be right now? No, but
given the uncertainty over regulation, the economy and still
weak loan demand in the market it’s the best of lots of bad
options,” he said.  Banks have “very conservative” balance sheets, JPMorgan
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said in a July 13 conference
call with analysts. The bank lent out $700 billion of its $1.1
trillion in deposits in the second quarter. “That would
generally be considered totally conservative,” Dimon said.  JPMorgan increased the Treasury and government agencies
portion of their available-for-sale credit portfolio to $11.743
billion as of June 30, from $8.351 billion at the start of the
year, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on  Aug. 9 .  Added Incentive  “We get a lot of deposits in,” he said. “The extra
deposits of $423 billion, plus equity, plus some other net
liabilities, give us $522 billion that’s not being lent out that
we have to invest.”  The global supply of the highest-quality securities, as
measured by ratings companies, is poised to fall by as much as
$4 trillion. Reforms such as the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul
law and global regulations set by the  Bank for International
Settlements  require institutions to hold more top-graded debt.  Lenders have an added incentive to buy Treasuries after the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  proposed rules in 2011
that banks increase available capital to bolster the cushion
against potential losses and better measure and control their
risk. Treasuries’ safety and liquidity makes them suitable
capital under regulations designed to prevent a repeat of the
global financial crisis.  Wrong Direction  Loans are being damped by the slow recovery. Gross domestic
product expanded at a 1.5 percent annual rate in the second
quarter after a revised 2 percent gain in the prior three
months, below the average of 2.6 percent since 1982, the
Commerce Department said on July 27.  The share of U.S. households viewing the economy as heading
in the wrong direction rose to 45 percent in August, the highest
since November, from 36 percent in July, the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort survey showed today. The monthly expectations gauge
dropped to minus 22 from minus 11. The weekly Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index fell to minus 44.4 in the period ended Aug. 12,
the lowest since January, from minus 41.9.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
GDP, grew at the slowest pace in a year, according to the
commerce department’s report on GDP.  Stimulus Pledge  Fed policy makers said Aug 1 they would provide more
monetary stimulus “as needed.”  “There’s all sorts of good long-term developments that are
occurring on household balance sheets, but you sense the Fed
would like them to be not quite as thrifty and instead put a
little more money to work,” said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt
research at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “But that’s
not going to happen without salary incomes rising.”  That explains the gap between deposits and lending, said
Jeffrey Caughron, a partner at Baker Group LP in  Oklahoma City 
who advises community banks on more than $30 billion of
investments.  “It’s a function of inherently weak demand for loans and
that relates to inherently weak demand in the economy,” he
said. “Consumers, households, businesses: they’re paying down
debt, they’re saving money, they’re not borrowing. They don’t
have an appetite.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  