-- Bank Currency Risk, Peregrine Plea, Turkey: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-20T12:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/bank-currency-risk-peregrine-plea-turkey-gas-probe-compliance.html
Banks are underestimating the risk
that their trading partners on the foreign exchange market may
fail to honor commitments, global regulators said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued draft
guidance to lenders to bolster safeguards against the
possibility that trades may break down before they are settled.  Banks should set binding limits on the amount of settlement
risk they take onto their books, and restrict the amount of
business they do with any single counterparty.  Transactions worth $4 trillion a day take place on global
currency markets, according to figures from the  Bank of
International Settlements  published in December 2010. The market
grew by 20 percent from 2007 to 2010, the BIS said.  The draft rules tackle so-called Herstatt risk, namely the
possibility that a bank can be left facing large losses if it
moves first to honor its side of a currency transaction, while
its trading partner goes bust before fulfilling its obligations.
The global financial system was faced with such difficulties
when Bankhaus Herstatt failed in 1974, an event that influenced
regulators to set up the Basel Committee.  While banks and other institutions active in the currency
markets have taken steps to make trading more robust, rapid
growth means that “substantial” settlement risks remain, the
group said.  The plans update guidance adopted by the Basel group in
2000. The committee will seek views on the proposals until Oct.
12.  Compliance Policy  Securitization Lobby Seeks Exemption From CFTC Registration Rule  U.S. regulators should exempt securitization vehicles from
Dodd-Frank Act rules slated to take effect this year to avoid
hampering the market for asset-backed securities, according to
an industry lobby group.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  rules may lead
securitization vehicles to register as so-called commodity pools
because they often use  interest-rate swaps  to hedge risks,  Tom
Deutsch , executive director of the  American Securitization Forum 
said Aug. 17 in a letter to the agency. That shift may restrict
bank investments because of limits under Dodd-Frank’s Volcker
rule, said Tom Deutsch, Executive Director of the American
Securitization Forum.  The securitization group, which represents  Bank of America 
Corp. and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  among  hundreds of
investors , issuers and trustees, wants an exclusion this year
before the rules take effect. The CFTC and the Securities and
Exchange Commission are required by Dodd-Frank to complete
regulations reducing risk and increasing transparency in the
swaps market after unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis.  The Volcker rule was included in the regulatory overhaul to
restrict banks’ proprietary trading and investment in private
equity and hedge funds. The CFTC and other regulators are
working to complete the measure after missing the July 21
deadline for implementation.  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment.  ECB to Supervise Smaller Euro-Zone Banks, Handelsblatt Says  The  European Central Bank  intends to supervise smaller
banks in the euro-zone, according to a report by the
Handelsblatt.  German savings and cooperative banks are included, the
newspaper said, citing the draft of a European Union bank
regulation law to be presented on Sept. 11.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  had signaled that only the
25 biggest institutions were to be included, the paper reported.  Outside the euro area, banks will continue to be controlled
by the national supervision bodies, the Handelsblatt said.  Senior German Christian Democrat lawmaker Michael Meister
says he opposes the proposal commission to include oversight of
savings banks in a “banking union”, the newspaper reported.  Deputy floor leader Meister said in a pre-released
interview that a singular European Union bank regulator should
confine its oversight activities to international banks with
cross-border business and not regulate locally-active banks.  BOE Was Naive on Libor and King Overstepped Power, Lawmakers Say  The  Bank of England ’s handling of questions about the
rigging of the London interbank offered rate was naive and
lacked urgency, a U.K. panel of lawmakers said.  The House of Commons Treasury Committee also criticized
Governor Mervyn King for his part in the effective ousting of
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  last month,
saying it was “difficult to justify” and that greater checks
on his power were needed.  The committee made the remarks in preliminary findings into
the scandal that were published in London Aug. 17.  Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds
($455 million) in June for attempting to manipulate Libor,
prompting the resignation of Diamond as well as the bank’s
chairman and chief operating officer. The central bank became
embroiled after Barclays released a memo of a 2008 phone call
between Diamond and Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker . The note
suggested Tucker might have hinted Barclays could lowball its
Libor submissions.  In its report, the  Treasury Committee  downplayed the role
of that conversation, saying it may have been used to distract
lawmakers from other issues. The finding may provide relief to
Tucker as he tries to stay in contention to for the central
bank’s top job next year. Still, the panel criticized the
central bank for not keeping its own record of the call.  Lawmakers stopped short of accusing the central bank of
misconduct over its failures on Libor and said the shortcomings
of the Financial Services Authority as the prudential regulator
were “far more serious.” In a statement, the Bank of England
said it welcomes the conclusion that it “did not have any
regulatory responsibilities for Libor during the relevant
period.”  For more, click here, and click here.  India to Allow Foreign Retail Chains in September, Standard Says  India will allow multibrand retail chains with 51 percent
foreign ownership to conduct business in the country, according
to the Business Standard.  States will have the choice whether to implement the rule,
Business Standard reported, citing an official it didn’t
identify.  The rule change will be notified after the monsoon session
of parliament ends in September, the newspaper reported.  Compliance Action  Turkey Antitrust Board to Probe Three Industrial Gas Sellers  Turkey’s antitrust regulator will investigate allegations
of violation of the competition law in industrial gas sales by
 Linde AG (LIN) ’s Turkish unit Linde Gaz AS, Yalizlar Sinai & Tibbi
Gazlar and Orsez Sinai Tibbi Gazlar.  The regulator in Ankara will investigate whether the three
companies shared information on prices and customers and
refrained from competitive bidding, the Competition Authority
said on its  website  Aug. 17.  EU Sets 30-Day Deadline for Comment on Charleroi, Ryanair Probe  European Union antitrust authorities will seek comments on
whether an airport used by  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  in Belgium
received government aid that may have benefited some budget
carriers over competitors.  The European Commission in March extended an investigation
into government support for Belgium’s state-owned Charleroi
airport to examine changes to Ryanair’s contracts on airport
access and aid from the local Walloon regional government.  The Brussels-based regulator is inviting interested parties
to contact them about the case as part of its efforts to
establish whether Belgium broke the bloc’s state aid rules,
according to a  statement published  on the EU’s website.  Courts  SEC Wins Asset Freeze to Halt $600 Million Internet Ponzi Scheme  A  North Carolina  man agreed to pay $4 million to settle
U.S. regulatory claims that he cheated more than 1 million
Internet customers in a pyramid and Ponzi scheme operated
through the ZeekRewards.com website.  Paul Burks, an online marketer who operated Rex Venture
Group LLC, lured customers through his site’s rewards program,
which involved the sale of unregistered securities, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said Aug. 17 in a statement
announcing a complaint filed in federal court in North Carolina.
The SEC obtained an asset freeze against the company and Burks,
65, who agreed to settle without admitting or denying
wrongdoing.  The agency moved to freeze the assets to help customers
recover money and avoid losses from the program, which was
falsely portrayed on the website as extremely profitable, the
SEC said. In reality, most ZeekRewards profits consisted of
funds received from new investors.  ZeekRewards has paid out almost $375 million to investors
and holds about $225 million in investor funds, which will be
frozen under the court order, according to the SEC.  Burks, who is accused of siphoning several million dollars
of investors’ funds and distributing at least $1 million to
family members, agreed to cooperate with a court-appointed
receiver, the agency said.  Noell Tin, Burks’s lawyer in Charlotte, North Carolina,
declined to comment on the SEC’s actions.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Rex
Venture Group LLC, 12-cv-00519, U.S. District Court, Western
District of North Carolina (Charlotte).  Hall of Famer Eddie Murray Settles Inside Trading Case With SEC  Baseball Hall of Famer Eddie Murray agreed to pay $358,151
to resolve U.S. claims that he profited from an  insider-trading 
tip provided by former Baltimore Orioles teammate Doug DeCinces.  Murray made $235,314 on the $1.36 billion acquisition of
Advanced Medical Optics Inc. by  Abbott Laboratories Inc. (ABT)  in 2009
when given advance information about the deal, alongside others
who have settled with the Securities and Exchange Commission or
face claims, the agency said in a statement Aug. 17. DeCinces
and three others agreed to pay $3.3 million last year to settle
SEC claims they reaped a total of $1.7 million, the agency said.  DeCinces’s neighbor, James Mazzo, then-chairman and chief
executive officer of Santa Ana, California-based Advanced
Medical Optics, told DeCinces that Abbott was making a tender
offer for his firm, the SEC alleged.  Mazzo, 55, and another friend of DeCinces, David L. Parker,
60, who lives in Provo, Utah, and is a managing partner at an
Irvine, California-based private-equity firm, face insider-
trading claims filed by the SEC Aug. 17 in federal court in
California.  Murray logged the most career RBIs among switch hitters
during his 20-year career, according to the National Baseball
Hall of Fame website. He was inducted into the Hall of Fame in
2003 as only the third player to collect both 3,000 hits and 500
home runs.  The former first baseman maintained a close friendship with
DeCinces, 61, after they stopped playing together in 1981, the
SEC said.  “Eddie Murray is admitting no wrongdoing at all in this
matter,” Michael Proctor, Murray’s lawyer in Los Angeles, said
in an e-mail, adding that he settled in order to put the matter
behind him and move on with his life.  “Mr. Mazzo flatly and unequivocally denies the SEC’s
allegations,” said Richard Marmaro, his Los Angeles lawyer, in
an e-mailed statement.  James Sanders , a Los Angeles lawyer for
Parker, declined to comment on the accusations that Parker
pocketed $347,920 from the tips.  Peregrine’s Wasendorf Pleads Not Guilty to Lying to CFTC  Russell Wasendorf Sr., the Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
founder, pleaded not guilty to 31 counts of lying to U.S.
regulators about the value of customer funds held by his now-
bankrupt commodities firm.  Wasendorf, wearing leg irons and handcuffs and dressed in
an orange prison uniform, appeared in court Aug. 17 in Cedar
Rapids, Iowa, where federal public defender Jane Kelly entered
the plea on his behalf.  Wasendorf, 64, told Magistrate Judge Jon Scoles that he
understood the indictment. Scoles set a tentative trial date for
Oct. 15 in a hearing that lasted less than five minutes.  Wasendorf was indicted by a federal grand jury on Aug. 13.
He’s accused of making false statements to the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission in the firm’s monthly and annual
reports to the agency from February 2010 through June 2012.  The charges against him carry a maximum punishment of 155
years in prison and a $7.75 million fine.  The CFTC sued Peregrine and Wasendorf on July 10, accusing
them of misappropriating at least $200 million in customer
funds. Wasendorf has been in federal custody since his arrest.  The Cedar Falls, Iowa-based firm filed for bankruptcy court
liquidation in Chicago later that day.  Before a failed suicide attempt on July 9, Wasendorf wrote
a confession in which he said he had been embezzling from
Peregrine for almost 20 years, according to an FBI agent’s
affidavit filed with the Cedar Rapids federal court on July 11
and unsealed upon his arrest two days later. While hospitalized
after the suicide attempt, the CEO admitted to stealing at least
$100 million from Peregrine, Langdon said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12cr2021, U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Iowa (Waterloo).  The bankruptcy case  is In Re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  for the Northern District
of Illinois (Chicago).  The regulatory case is Commodity Futures Trading Commission
v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Ex-Morgan Stanley Executive Gets Nine Months in China Case  Ex- Morgan Stanley & Co. (MS)  real estate executive Garth R.
Peterson was sentenced to nine months in prison for transferring
multi-million dollar interests in a Shanghai building from his
employer to himself and a Chinese official.  Peterson, 43, was sentenced Aug. 16 by U.S. District Judge
 Jack B. Weinstein  in Brooklyn, New York, for conspiring to
circumvent internal bank controls required under the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. He faced as long as five years in prison.  A former managing director at the bank’s Shanghai real-
estate office, Peterson in 2006 arranged to sell an interest in
a building held by Morgan Stanley to a shell company owned by
him, a Chinese official and a Canadian lawyer, the government
alleged.  Peterson told the bank the shell company was affiliated
with a state-owned development firm,  Shanghai Yongye Enterprise
(Group) Co. , the government said.  Illegal gains from the scheme totaled $5.39 million for all
three conspirators, prosecutors said Aug. 13 in court papers.
They urged that he be sentenced to at least four years and three
months in prison.  Peterson’s attorneys, Abigail E. Rosen and Frank H. Wohl,
asked for a sentence of “no or minimal incarceration,” citing
his cooperation with authorities and the probable harm to his
children from his imprisonment.  He pleaded guilty to the conspiracy charge in April. His
alleged co-conspirators haven’t been identified in the case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Peterson, 12-cr-00224, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Peterson,
12-cv-02033, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  Ex-Dresdner Banker, Wife to Pay $2.5 Million for Insider Trades  A former Dresdner Kleinwort banker and his wife must pay
1.6 million pounds ($2.5 million) to the U.K.’s finance
regulator after they were found guilty of insider trading.  Christian Littlewood, who is serving a 40-month jail
sentence after he pleaded guilty last year to eight counts of
insider trading, and his wife, Angie, agreed with the Financial
Services Authority to forfeit the amount they profited. They owe
800,000 pounds each, including proceeds from the crimes and
legal costs, according to the settlement announced in a London
criminal court today.  Littlewood admitted to passing information on confidential
deals to his wife, who relayed it to an accomplice, Helmy Omar
Sa’aid, who traded securities using the information. Angie
Littlewood and Sa’aid invested about 5.5 million pounds over 10
years, the FSA said.  The FSA “took the view that the total benefit” by the
three defendants in the case is 2.3 million pounds, which they
planned to split three ways, Nicholas Dean, a lawyer for the
regulator, told Judge Anthony Leonard.  The couple have six months in which to pay the FSA or face
three years in prison, Leonard ruled.  Angie Littlewood received a suspended 12-month sentence and
isn’t serving a jail term. Christian Littlewood’s sentence was
the longest prison term for the crime in an FSA prosecution at
the time.  After the Littlewoods were charged, Sa’aid was found the
following year in Mayotte, a French island off the coast of
Africa, and was extradited back to the U.K. to face the charges.  Interviews  Wheeler Says Deutsche Bank Probe May End in Settlement  Christopher Wheeler , a banking analyst at  Mediobanca SpA (MB) ,
discusses the outlook for Deutsche Bank AG, one of four European
banks being investigated by U.S. authorities for alleged
violations involving oil trading and Iran.  Wheeler talks with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Sri Lanka Securities Regulator Resigns, Reuters Says  Tilak Karunaratne, the head of the Sri Lanka  Securities and
Exchange Commission , resigned Aug. 17, according to a report by
Reuters.  Karunaratne said he submitted a letter of resignation on
Aug. 17. The regulator said he resigned because he “came under
pressure from stock market players under investigation for stock
manipulation making false allegations against him,” Reuters
reported him as saying, without identifying the people making
the allegations.  Karunaratne was pursuing investigations of improper
practices in the stock market, including so-called pump-and-dump
schemes, Reuters reported.  The Sri Lanka Finance Ministry had not yet accepted the
resignation, according to the Reuters report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 