-- Banned Israel Singer Rita Woos Iranians Amid Attack Fear
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-08-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/banned-israel-singer-rita-woos-iranians-amid-attack-fear.html
Arshia, a 23-year-old Tehran music-
store salesman, hesitates before playing a banned download of
Israel-based Rita’s Persian-language album.  Arshia is afraid and asks that his full name not be used.
He turns down the shop’s sound system to avoid alerting passers-
by in the surrounding mall. He whispers that the CD is
increasingly popular despite the odds stacked against it.  Rita’s music is forbidden in her birthplace  Iran . Tensions
are running high after Tel Aviv-based Haaretz newspaper said on
Aug. 10 that  Israel ’s leadership is considering bombing Iran’s
nuclear facilities before the Nov. 6 U.S. elections. Iran says
its nuclear program is aimed at generating electricity, while
the West sees it as a push to develop atomic weapons.  “People asked me, ’Are you really going to do an album in
the language of Ahmadinejad?’” says 50-year-old  Rita  in an
interview “’Who will listen?’ they asked. And I said, ‘I have to
do it. It’s burning inside me.’”  Rita has a North American tour planned for November to
promote the record, titled “My Joys.”  In Iran, any music or dance whose singing, performance or
distribution is not approved by the authorities is deemed
illegal. That includes music from before the 1978 revolution,
Western music and anything by performers from outside the
Islamic republic.  There’s added sensitivity because Rita is now an Israeli.
Her supporters know the law is hard to enforce, because people
are downloading her music or listening to it regardless.  Maliheh, a 65-year-old housewife -- who also doesn’t want
her full name to be given -- was transfixed when she saw Rita
singing on a satellite TV channel.  Stone Flower  “‘Gol Sangam’ is about a flower that blossoms on stones,”
she says at a party at her home. “It means that one can
overcome any difficulties and grow from them.”  Rita Jahan-Foruz moved to Israel from Iran when she was
eight years old. She has had about 40 hit singles and was named
Israel’s top female singer during the 60th anniversary of the
country’s creation. Her planned tour includes  Los Angeles ,  Palo
Alto , Mexico City, Miami, Toronto,  New York  and Bethesda.  “My mother, my sister and I miss Iran so much. We would
love to visit,” says Rita, who is fluent in Persian. “In
Tehran, I remember eating the local ice cream, and chelo-kabab”
(a popular kebab dish).  Her love of Persian music traces back to her family home at
the foot of a mountain in Tehran. Her mother ran a beauty salon,
sang and played the tonbak, an Iranian drum. Rita has now taken
traditional melodies and added gypsy and rhythmic elements.  Iranian Memories  “Everything on this album is a memory for me,” she says.  Iranians share pride in the achievements of their
countrymen, says  Reza Aslan , an Iranian-U.S. writer whose book
“No God But God” has been translated into Hebrew.  Many fans have added comments to Rita’s Facebook page.  “Miss Rita, you’re a source of great pride for us,”
writes a fan identified as Ali F. “The beautiful and emotional
songs you sing in this time of war, this crazy time of Islamic
control, give an overwhelming feeling of closeness.”  Rita’s music is spreading at a time when the regime is
“increasingly unpopular” and people are curious about Israel,
says Meir Javendanfar, an Iranian-Israeli analyst at the
 Herzliya Interdisciplinary Center  in Israel.  More than 20,000 copies of “My Joys” were sold in its
first three weeks of release, Rita’s manager Roni Arditi says.  Rita was also motivated to make the record because of the
actions of Iran’s rulers.  “I see this huge wall that the government put up between
the people,” she says. “I don’t think the people want that. I’m
starting to believe that we the people can scratch at that wall,
or maybe make a little hole.”  Muse highlights include Richard Vines on food and  James
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 