-- Barnes & Noble Investor Elation With Microsoft Deal Fades
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-08-20T13:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/barnes-noble-investor-elation-with-microsoft-deal-fades.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s stock surged a
record 52 percent on April 30, the day  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  swooped
in with an offer to buy a stake in the money-losing retailer and
fund its expansion into electronic books.  The euphoria has  evaporated  as it becomes clear that even
with Microsoft’s considerable resources and push into tablets
and mobile computing, a rapidly changing competitive environment
means the largest U.S. bookstore chain will still struggle to
avoid the fate of the music and movie stores.  The shares have slid 41 percent since the announcement as
investors digest Barnes & Noble’s mounting woes: another loss,
sliding sales of printed books, and slowing revenue growth of
Nook e-readers and tablets, which could soon face new
competition from a smaller and cheaper  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad. Analysts
project more losses when the bookseller reports first-quarter
earnings tomorrow, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  It doesn’t help that Microsoft and Barnes & Noble have been
vague about how their partnership will turn things around, said
Peter Wahlstrom, an analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago .
Barnes & Noble must “prove they can make this into a viable
model and they haven’t done that yet,” he said. Microsoft’s
involvement “doesn’t fix it.”  On a price-to-sales basis, Barnes & Noble trades at a 90
percent discount to the 32-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Retailing Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
bookseller has annual revenue of $7.1 billion and a market
capitalization of $739.5 million.  Both companies declined to offer more details, or make
executives available to be interviewed for this story.  Nook Foothold  When Barnes & Noble released its first tablet, the Nook
Color, in 2010, it quickly gained a foothold as one of the few
inexpensive alternatives to the iPad. The chain managed to grab
share in large part because it converted a section of its stores
into Nook showrooms. A majority of the company’s e-readers and
tablets are sold at its 691 locations.  About a year after the Nook Color debut,  Amazon (AMZN) .com Inc.’s
Kindle Fire arrived with a similar price and began grabbing
customers.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  entered the market last month with the
Nexus 7 and Apple may join the fray in October.  Faced with rising competition, the New York-based chain
tried luring customers with free gift cards and e-books; now
it’s discounting. On Aug. 12, it marked down the Nook Color and
Tablet, cutting the price on the 8-gigabyte Tablet 10 percent to
$179. Comparable Fire and Nexus 7 versions sell for $199.  Protecting Share  While the discounting squeezes margins, Barnes & Noble is
trying to protect and expand its hard-won 25 percent share of
the U.S. e-book market -- a portion it never attained in printed
books. It’s easy to see why. Content sales, which include
digital books and such apps as Angry Birds, more than doubled
last year to $483 million while sales at its stores and website
declined 1.5 percent to $4.85 billion. Content also generates
gross margin above 30 percent, compared with a 27 percent margin
for the whole company.  Like Amazon, Barnes & Noble is selling its e-readers and
tablets at a loss or break-even to lock customers into its
system. Chief Executive Officer William Lynch has called this
acquiring “digital lockers” with the belief that once
consumers begin building an e-book collection within the Nook
universe, they will keep buying from it.  “The idea is not to get every human being to have a Nook
device,” said  David Schick , an analyst for Stifel Nicolaus, who
recommends holding the shares. “It’s to get people who read a
lot to be on their platform.”  Less Hardware  The company has said it will focus less on hardware going
forward. That means Barnes & Noble will become increasingly
reliant on selling e-books via devices from Apple, Google and
Microsoft. Many Kindle owners traded to the iPad and still buy
books from Amazon and use its app to read them. The big question
is whether the tie-up with Microsoft will help Barnes & Noble
pull off the same trick -- keeping its millions of Nook
customers loyal and hooking new ones.  All the companies have said about the deal is that it’s
expected to close before the end of the year and the Nook app
will be “deeply integrated” into Windows 8, the first version
of Microsoft’s operating system that will power tablets.  That may mean users are prompted to make a pre-loaded Nook
app their default reader, as Apple does with its iBooks, or it
could be promoted in the Windows app store with free e-books.
Yet because Amazon and  Rakuten Inc. (4755) ’s Kobo brand are also making
apps for Windows 8, Barnes & Noble will have plenty of
competition as it chases new customers, Wahlstrom said.  Wider Distribution  Windows 8, debuting in October, will be installed on 122
million devices, including 6.7 million tablets, by the end of
2013, according to IDC, a Framingham, Massachusetts-based
researcher. That potentially will give Barnes & Noble wider
distribution and its first move overseas.  Under the deal, the Nook digital bookstore must be
available via Windows 8 in 10 countries within a year. The
digital book market is more up for grabs outside the U.S., where
e-reading isn’t as widespread, although Amazon and Rakuten are
already selling e-books in more than 100 countries. Barnes &
Noble said today that it will begin selling the Nook and e-books
in the U.K. by the end of this year.  Barnes & Noble should have the cash to stay competitive.
Besides paying $300 million for an 18 percent stake in a Nook
subsidiary that may be spun off into a standalone company,
Microsoft has also agreed to spend another $305 million over
five years on revenue sharing and capital expenditure payments.  Still, Barnes & Noble has yoked its future to a company
struggling with its own reinvention. While Microsoft is
releasing its own tablet, Surface, the software maker has mostly
failed to create best-selling gadgets, with the exception of the
Xbox game console.  Moreover, Apple and Google have a formidable head start in
the fastest-growing part of the computer industry. “There’s no
question Microsoft is late to the tablet market,” said Al Gillen, an IDC analyst. “They have some catching up to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  