-- Brazil Record-Low Rates Are ‘Here to Stay,’ Bradesco Says
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-08-20T19:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/brazil-record-low-rates-are-here-to-stay-bradesco-s-levy-says.html
Brazil  will probably keep  interest
rates  at record lows for another year as inflation stays within
the central bank’s target and public debt shrinks, said Joaquim Levy, the head of Bradesco SA’s asset management unit.  “Low interest rates are here to stay, thanks to the
reshaping of the Brazilian economy,” Levy, a former Brazilian
 treasury secretary  who now manages 275 billion reais ($136
billion) at Bradesco Asset Management, said in an interview at
the bank’s office in Sao Paulo. “Rates were high in the past
because there were many doubts about Brazil’s economic policies.
Now those doubts have been cleared up.”  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini cut the lending
rate by 4.5 percentage points over the past year to 8 percent,
seeking to revive growth in the biggest emerging market after
 China  as  Europe ’s debt crisis saps the outlook for exports and
foreign investment. Should the recovery speed up as Brazil
bolsters spending on infrastructure, policy makers may raise the
rate to as high as 9 percent by the end of 2013, Levy said.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA index rose 5.2
percent in the year through July, the fastest inflation rate in
four months. The figure remains below the 6.5 percent ceiling of
the central bank’s target.  Stocks including EcoRodovias Infraestrutura & Logistica SA,
the Sao Paulo-based highways and ports operator, and  Cia. de
Concessoes Rodoviarias , Brazil’s biggest toll-road operator,
should keep outperforming the Bovespa equity index as Brazilian
President  Dilma Rousseff  relies more on non-government entities
to take on infrastructure improvements, Levy said.  Ports, Roads  “Brazil needs more investments in ports, roads and
railroads, which means those companies have scope to keep
growing,” Levy said.  Bradesco’s  Fia Infra Estrutura (BDSINFR) , an investment fund that
allocates at least 67 percent of its assests to shares of
companies in the infrastructure industry, has advanced 20.6
percent this year, outperforming 90 percent of its peers in
Brazil, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Bovespa index has
climbed 4.7 percent in the same period.  Brazil will sell licenses to build and operate roads and
railways requiring as much as 133 billion reais in investments
over 30 years, Transport Minister Paulo Sergio Passos said
during a ceremony in Brasilia on Aug. 15. The government plans
to sell licenses for private companies to operate 7,500
kilometers (4,660 miles) of roads and 10,000 kilometers of
railways.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  