-- Brazil Swap Rates Climb on Higher Inflation Forecast; Real Falls
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-08-20T21:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/brazil-swap-rates-climb-on-higher-inflation-forecast-real-falls.html
Brazilian swap rates rose to a
seven-week high after analysts covering the economy increased
their 2012 inflation forecast, bolstering speculation the
central bank may limit its cycle of borrowing-cost cuts.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014 increased
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 7.92 percent, the
highest closing level since June 27. The real dropped for the
first time in four days, depreciating 0.1 percent to 2.0171 per
dollar.  The median 2012 inflation forecast of about 100 economists
in a central bank survey published today increased for a sixth
week, rising to 5.15 percent. The economists reduced their
growth forecast for this year to 1.75 percent even after recent
signs that the economy may be picking up.  “The bigger the economic activity, the bigger the chance
that the jump in food prices will pass through to inflation,”
 Vladimir Caramaschi , the chief economist of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s
Brazilian unit, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  Inflation accelerated in July for the first time in 10
months as adverse weather in  Brazil  and the U.S. drove up food
prices. The inflation rate as measured by the IPCA index rose to
a four-month high of 5.20 percent, the national statistics
agency reported Aug. 8.  Swap rates climbed the most in almost three weeks on Aug.
16 after a report showed retail sales jumped 1.5 percent in June
following a 0.8 percent drop in the prior month, adding to
evidence that efforts to boost growth are starting to take hold.
Economists underestimated monthly retail sales the most since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 2008.  Economic Activity  The seasonally adjusted economic activity index, a proxy
for gross domestic product, rose 0.75 percent in June, the
fastest pace since March 2011, the central bank said Aug. 17.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  may set aside as much as
14 billion reais ($6.9 billion) to grant striking civil servants
a wage increase next year, a government official familiar with
the negotiations said Aug. 16, asking not to be identified
because figures are preliminary.  “There are inflation concerns,” Eduardo Galasini, the
head of treasury at Banco Banif in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview. “There’s pressure from workers striking
for wage increases, and it’s not clear if the government is
going to yield on this.”  The central bank has cut the  target lending rate  by 4.5
percentage points since August 2011 to a record low 8 percent to
support growth. Rousseff’s administration has reduced taxes on
cars and appliances to bolster consumption.  The second preview of the Getulio Vargas Foundation’s IGP-M
index rose at a faster pace than forecast, a report today
showed. The gauge of producer and consumer prices and
construction costs in the 20 days beginning July 21 increased
1.38 percent, compared with the 1.31 percent median forecast of
20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Traders are projecting central bank President Alexandre
Tombini will reduce the target lending rate to as low as 7.25
percent by October, according to rate futures yields.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  