-- Bundesbank Steps Up ECB Bond Plan Criticism; Rift Widens
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-08-20T12:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/bundesbank-steps-up-ecb-bond-plan-criticism-rift-widens.html
Germany’s Bundesbank stepped up its
criticism of the  European Central Bank ’s plan to embark on
potentially “unlimited” government bond purchases, widening a
rift over how to tackle the sovereign debt crisis.  “The Bundesbank holds to the opinion that government bond
purchases by the Eurosystem are to be seen critically and entail
significant stability risks,” the Frankfurt-based central bank
said in its monthly report today. The new program “could be
unlimited” and decisions about potentially far greater sharing
of solvency risks should be taken by governments or parliaments,
not by central banks, it said.  The comments suggest Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
won’t support a measure the ECB is rushing to design to help
reduce governments’ borrowing costs and win them time to
implement fiscal reforms. Spanish and Italian 10-year bond
yields slid to the lowest in more than six weeks today after
German news magazine  Der Spiegel  reported the ECB’s new program
may set yield caps. In response, the ECB issued a statement
saying it’s “misleading to report on decisions which have not
yet been taken.”  ‘Less Effective’  The euro fell against the dollar after the Bundesbank and
ECB comments. It traded at $1.2301 at 2:15 p.m. in  Frankfurt ,
down 0.3 percent today.  “The more loudly the Bundesbank protests, the less likely
markets are to be impressed,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief
economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “That could make the
policy less effective.”  President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 2 that the ECB is
working on a plan to intervene in the secondary market to lower
yields in countries that ask Europe’s bailout fund to buy its
bonds in the primary market, ensuring conditionality. While ECB
purchases would focus on the short end, details have yet to be
finalized and policy makers will decide on the plan next month,
Draghi said. He said Weidmann wasn’t in favor of the plan.  Italy and Spain, the countries now at the heart of the
crisis as borrowing costs soar, have yet to say whether they
will request help.  With the debt crisis continuing to threaten the global
economy, Europe’s leaders are embarking on a week of diplomacy
to find common ground. French President  Francois Hollande  and
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will meet in Berlin on Aug. 23,
while Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras travels to the German
capital the next day before going on to Paris on Aug. 25.  Bond Yields  Italian and Spanish bonds rose after the Spiegel report.
The yield on Spain’s 10-year government bond fell 24 basis
points to 6.18 percent as of 1 p.m. in  Madrid , while the yield
on Italian 10-year bonds was 5.73 percent, down 4 basis points.  The ECB issued a statement today saying a bond-yield cap
has “not yet been discussed by the ECB’s Governing Council,”
and it is “wrong to speculate on the shape of future ECB
interventions.” It didn’t deny that ECB officials are
considering the idea.  A successful ECB plan could help shelter Spain and Italy
from any further turmoil from  Greece  as governments send mixed
signals about their willingness to stump up more funds.  Greece’s troika of international creditors -- the ECB, the
European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund  -- will
return to  Athens  in early September to assess progress as the
Samaras administration seeks to hammer out 11.5 billion euros
($14.2 billion) in budget cuts for 2013 and 2014.  Greek Shortfall  Greece may need to cut as much as 14 billion euros over the
next two years to meet its deficit targets due to setbacks in
planned privatizations and lower tax income, Spiegel reported
separately, citing an interim troika report. An IMF spokeswoman
based in  Washington  declined to comment.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on Aug. 18
that the debt crisis mustn’t become a “bottomless pit” for his
country. “There are limits,” he said, ruling out another aid
program for Greece. At the same time, two German lawmakers said
last week that Merkel is considering easing Greece’s bailout
terms.  The Bundesbank has resisted ECB intervention during the
crisis before. Former President  Axel Weber  resigned last year
after becoming isolated over his opposition to the ECB’s
original bond-buying program. Former Bundesbank vice president
 Juergen Stark  also left his position as ECB chief economist in
December in protest at the purchases, which were shelved in
March this year.  Bundesbank Isolation  “Nobody should try to create the impression that the
Bundesbank or its president are isolated,” German ECB Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen told the  Frankfurter Rundschau  in
today’s edition.  Asked if the Bundesbank’s concerns about the new bond
program are justified, Asmussen said the ECB acts within its
mandate to guarantee price stability. “A currency can only be
stabile if there are no doubts about its survival,” he said.
“We’re working on that in the ECB.”  In today’s bulletin, the Bundesbank also said there are
risks associated with a plan to give the ECB oversight of
European banks.  The new system should theoretically cover all European
Union banks with the possibility for countries to opt out, to
minimize regulation arbitrage, the Bundesbank said.  That the ECB should be primarily responsible for the new
authority “bears however the risk of conflict with the primary
goal of monetary policy, that  price stability  should be
guaranteed,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  