-- Calpers Defends Pension Benefits While Risking Losses
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-08-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/calpers-defends-pension-benefits-while-risking-losses.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. pension, is defending
government workers against criticism of their benefits even
while it risks losses as municipalities, faced with rising
retirement costs, file for bankruptcy.  The $239.1 billion fund is the largest creditor in
bankruptcy cases filed by two  California  cities, Stockton and
San Bernardino, since the end of June, with a total of $290.8
million at stake.  Increasing retiree obligations are straining budgets of
cities across the Golden State, still grappling with income- and
sales-tax revenue reduced by the longest recession since the
Great Depression. The two bankrupt cities represent 0.7 percent
of employer contributions to  Calpers , according to actuarial
 statements . Still, others may follow if judges relieve them of
pension commitments, said  Karol Denniston , a bankruptcy lawyer
at Schiff Hardin LLP based in  San Francisco .  “The briefs that have been filed by the insurers are
interesting in that they’re arguing that Calpers should be
treated like any other creditor,” she said by telephone.
“Calpers is going to argue that they’re a different kind of
creditor, in that they hold the money in trust for the
retirees.”  Stockton, a city of about 292,000, about 80 miles (130
kilometers) east of San Francisco, and San Bernardino, with
209,000 residents, about 60 miles east of  Los Angeles , both
cited rising employee retirement costs as factors that drove
them to seek court protection. A third community in bankruptcy,
Mammoth Lakes, hobbled by a legal judgment, owes Calpers $4.2
million, according to its filing.  Stockton Precedent  “Where this is so important is that we know Stockton is
going to be precedential,” Denniston said.  Stockton is trying to become the first American city since
the 1930s to use bankruptcy to force bondholders to take less
than the principal they’re owed. The city will need approval
from a federal judge in  Sacramento  to impose any cuts on
creditors.  In an Aug. 2 statement responding to insurer  Assured
Guaranty (AGO) ’s objections to Stockton’s bankruptcy filing, Calpers
general counsel Peter Mixon argued that the interests of
pensioners should trump those of other creditors.  “The obligations owed to the public workers of the city
have priority over those of general unsecured creditors
including bondholders,” Mixon wrote. “Unlike insurance
companies, policemen, firefighters, and other public employees
are not in a position to evaluate credit risk of their
employers.”  Even as it defends its standing in the Stockton case,
Calpers is working to counter the notion that pension costs are
a significant factor in current and potential municipal
bankruptcies.  ‘Not Fair’  “It’s not fair to scapegoat public employees and pensions
for the financial woes of our cities,”  Rob Feckner , the
chairman of the Calpers board, wrote in an Aug. 8  op-ed  in the
Sacramento Bee. Feckner is an executive vice president of the
California Labor Federation, which represents 2.1 million
unionized workers, about half of them in government.  “The real culprit is the economy and housing market, along
with financial decisions made by city officials,” he said.
“Pension costs are a small piece of the budget.”  Calpers’ position contradicts the realities facing many
municipalities, said  Chris McKenzie , executive director of the
League of California Cities. Reducing pension costs is the top
priority this year for the Sacramento-based organization,
McKenzie said by e-mail.  Rising Costs  “Cities statewide have seen pension costs rise to the
point that they are no longer viewed as sustainable,” McKenzie
said. “Soaring pension costs are a serious concern.”  While pension costs are roughly 10 percent of most city
budgets, municipalities need flexibility to deal with them  when
revenues slump, said Dan Pellissier, president of California
Pension Reform.  “It’s ironic that Calpers is defending a system that is
placing an unsustainable burden on employers’ budgets,”
Pellissier said in an interview in Anaheim, California, where he
spoke at a Calpers forum on pension legislation. “Calpers has
to find out a way to work with government agencies that have
overpromised benefits based on contribution rates that have been
artificially low.”  More than 1,500 cities, counties and other units of
government pay into the fund, according to a Calpers  fact sheet .
Such employer contributions accounted for $7.5 billion, or less
than 14 percent of Calpers’ total income in 2010-11; most of the
income came from investment earnings.  Investments Return  Calpers, which posted a 1 percent return on investments for
the year ended June 30, has about 72 percent of the assets
needed to pay long-term obligations to retirees, spokesman  Brad Pacheco  said.  Even if the three bankrupt cities withheld their entire
payments due to Calpers, it would not “move the needle” on the
pension’s funded status, Pacheco said in an e-mail message.  Robert Udall Glazier, a Calpers deputy director, said
leaders of the fund view cities’ financial distress “with great
concern.”  “These cities,” he said, “are our partners in providing
services and a better quality of life for Californians.”  The Stockton bankruptcy case is In re Stockton, 12-32118,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of California
(Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  