-- Canada Dollar Trades at Almost 3-Month High on Growth Prospects
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-08-20T21:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/canadian-dollar-trades-close-to-3-month-high-on-growth-prospects.html
Canada ’s dollar held close to its
strongest level in more than three months amid improved economic
growth prospects and speculation European officials are moving
closer to curbing their sovereign-debt crisis.  The currency extended a sixth consecutive weekly gain
versus its U.S. counterpart, the longest winning streak in
almost two years, amid speculation North American economic
growth will sustain demand for the nation’s exports.  “The fundamental picture in Canada is not great, but it’s
better than  Japan ,  Europe , and maybe even the U.S.,” Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ,
said in a phone interview from Toronto. “And the general risk-
positive tone in the market has been a boon to the Canadian
dollar, especially with the stream of negative headline out of
Europe having peaked for now.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 0.1 percent to 98.84 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.01174. The loonie touched 98.60 cents on Aug. 16, the
strongest level since May 3.  The Canadian currency climbed last week against the
greenback amid higher-than-forecast retail sales and industrial
production in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner.  Biggest Export  Crude-oil futures touched a three-month high. Contracts for
crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, climbed to as high as $96.53
a barrel in  New York , the highest since May 11. They rose for a
fourth week last week as investors bet that U.S. growth may be
accelerating and European officials were moving closer to
curbing their sovereign-debt crisis.  The yield difference between the two-year U.S. Treasury and
Canadian government notes has widened to 91 basis points from 63
basis points in June, the least this year.  “Interest-rate differentials have been moving in favor of
the Canadian dollar, and we’ve had stronger commodity prices and
risk appetite, which has given the loonie scope to rally,” said
 Maria Jones , a currency trader at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities unit in Toronto. “There is scope for more short-term
rallying given the stimulative nature of global central banks.”  Yields on Spanish and Italian bonds dropped to six-week
lows on speculation leaders will agree on a plan to contain the
debt crisis. The ECB’s governing council may decide at its next
gathering to set yield limits on each country’s debt, Spiegel
magazine reported yesterday, without saying where it got the
information.  Growth Expectations  European  stocks  swung between gains and losses after
Germany’s Bundesbank stepped up its criticism of the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-buying program.  Canadian  retail sales  increased 0.1 percent in June,
lagging behind May’s 0.3 percent growth, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected before  Statistics Canada  reports the data on
Aug. 22.  “The overall trend has been a grind lower for the  exchange
rate ” with the Canadian currency appreciating, said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA) 
in Toronto. “Supporting the move are fundamentals in Canada,
including foreign direct investment -- most notably by central
banks looking for reserve diversification -- rising commodity
prices and better performance by the equity markets.”  U.S. reports this week are forecast to show the world’s
biggest economy is gaining momentum.  Futures Wagers  Existing home sales  rose 3.3 percent in July from June,
when they dropped 5.4 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey
before the National Association of Realtors’ report on Aug. 22.
Sales of  new homes , due the next day from the Commerce
Department, rose 4.3 percent in July, a separate survey showed.
Orders for durable goods climbed 2.5 percent, the most this
year, a Commerce Department report on Aug. 24 will show, based
on another survey.  Futures traders increased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will gain against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in Canada’s currency
compared with those on a drop -- so-called  net longs  -- was
28,593 on Aug. 14, compared with net longs of 19,122 a week
earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  