-- Crawford of Red Sox Faces Elbow Surgery, Could Miss 12-18 Months
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-21T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/carl-crawford-of-red-sox-to-have-surgery-on-torn-elbow-ligament.html
Carl Crawford  probably will miss at
least 12 months after he has surgery this week on a torn
ligament in his left elbow, the latest setback for the Boston
 Red Sox  outfielder, a former All-Star in the second year of a
$142 million contract.  Crawford, 31, will have so-called Tommy John surgery in two
days to reconstruct a chronic tear of his ulnar collateral
ligament, the Red Sox said yesterday in a statement. The team,
which at 59-63 is trying to avoid its first losing season in 15
years, said it expects Crawford to make a full recovery, without
giving a specific timeline for his return.  Bradford Parsons, an orthopedic surgeon and assistant
professor at  New York ’s Mount Sinai School of Medicine, said it
usually takes Major League Baseball players 12 to 18 months to
come back from Tommy John surgery.  “It’s a far more common injury in a pitcher than a
position player, but can happen to any repetitive overhead
thrower,” Parsons said in a telephone interview. “The recovery
may be a little faster in a position player because the fine
tuning of their throwing isn’t quite as critical.”  The projected recovery time means Crawford may miss most,
if not all, of the 2013 season. The Red Sox have 40 games left
this season, which ends Oct. 3, and are in fourth place in the
five-team American League Eastern Division.  “He may get back a little sooner, but it’s not like he’s
going to be back in half the time or anything,” Parsons said.
“The biology involved of getting the ligament to heal, the
flexibility of the elbow back, the strength back in the arm, and
getting back to throwing and building up the endurance in the
muscles is still going to take a fair amount of time.”  Crawford’s Injuries  Crawford missed  Boston ’s first 89 games this season while
recovering from surgery on his left wrist and injured his elbow
during his rehabilitation. He played in 31 games after being
activated from the disabled list on July 16 and hit .282 with
three home runs, 19 runs batted in and five steals.  “While he has been following a conservative treatment
protocol and playing with this injury, his symptoms are getting
worse,” the Red Sox said yesterday.  Crawford signed a seven-year deal with the Red Sox in
December 2010 after making four All-Star appearances during his
first nine seasons with the  Tampa Bay Rays .  After hitting better than .300 in five of his final six
seasons with  Tampa Bay , Crawford batted a career low .255 for
the Red Sox last season with 11 homers, 56 RBIs and 18 steals,
his fewest in a full season. He’s hit .260 in Boston after
having a .296 batting average with the Rays.  The Red Sox yesterday also fired pitching coach Bob McClure, who had taken the job in December after six seasons in
the same role for the  Kansas City Royals . Assistant pitching
coach Randy Niemann replaces McClure as the Red Sox look to
solidify a starting staff that has a 4.82 earned run average,
the fifth worst among 30 MLB teams this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  