-- Chemring Drops on Concern Carlyle Will Stop Short of a Bid
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-08-20T16:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/chemring-drops-on-risk-carlyle-will-stop-short-of-making-a-bid.html
  Chemring Group Plc (CHG) , a British
developer of missile-avoidance equipment, fell the most in seven
months in London trading amid concern that interested suitor
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  may not follow through with an offer.  Chemring dropped 9.8 percent to 373.90 pence, valuing the
company at 722.7 million pounds ($1.14 billion). The Fareham,
England-based company reached 414.7 pence on Aug. 17 after
disclosing the “highly preliminary expression of interest.”  “Carlyle walking away remains a serious risk,” Guy Brown,
an analyst at Oriel Securities, wrote in a note.  Chemring is among defense companies grappling with spending
purges, including the threat of an additional $500 billion in
U.S. defense cutbacks. The company has been trying to globally
diversify its sales and has seen revenue from non-NATO customers
reaching around 30 percent.  The fact that Chemring only issued the statement about
Carlyle after a jump in its share price last week suggests “a
reasonable chance that the bid does not materialize,” according
to UBS.  Carlyle’s previous investments in defense include a 31
percent stake in research group Qinetiq Plc in 2002 and United
Defense Industries, which it exited in 1997. It maintains a
stake in less-lethal munitions maker Combined Systems Inc.  Trade Buyers  Even if a Carlyle bid does not materialize, the interest
from the buy-out firm “may prompt trade buyers to take a
shot,” London-based Ben Bourne of Liberium Capital said in an
note to investors. He named  Esterline Technologies Corp. (ESL) ,
 Alliant Techsystems (ATK) , Rheinmetall and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  as
potential buyers.  Chemring could be a better fit for Esterline, Alliant
Techsystems and Rheinmetall than for larger defense prime
contractors, Brown said. The question smaller companies face is
“if they could get the funding and act fast enough to outbid
Carlyle,” he said.  Credit Suisse Group AG said pricing for a Chemring takeover
could be as high as 450 pence a share. Oriel Securities set a
target price of 450 pence, to reflect the preliminary nature of
the bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  