-- China’s Hottest Wheels for Executives: A Buick Minivan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-20T22:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/china-s-hottest-wheels-for-executives-a-buick-minivan.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  sells a model in
China so popular with executives that it’s often lined up
outside galas and high-end restaurants: A Buick minivan.  If it’s surprising that China’s business elite prefer these
big, boxy models to luxury sedans, it’s perhaps more striking
that GM’s Buick GL8 is the hands-down leader. The Detroit-based
automaker did so poorly in minivans that it quit making them in
the U.S., where they are often considered the least-glamorous
family haulers, spurned by moms who prefer the style of a sport-
utility vehicle.  “It is a perfect example of where one product can be
revered in one country and reviled in another,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst with IHS Automotive. In China, the
Buick GL8 is “ubiquitous, like a  Town Car  in  Manhattan  or
chauffeured limousine in L.A. The assumption is that someone
important is in one.”  Sales in China of the GL8, which retails for as much as
388,000  yuan  ($61,000), rose 28 percent last year to 66,900,
according to researcher LMC Automotive. That’s more than double
the sales of  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Odyssey, the No. 2 foreign-brand
minivan, LMC said.  Minivan sales will grow 13 percent this year to 560,000
units, the second-best performing category after sport-utility
vehicles, China’s Association for Automobile Manufacturers
forecasted on July 26.  Yacht Interior  With an interior modeled after a luxury yacht, the GL8’s
appeal is that there’s room for several adults to sit
comfortably and conduct business. The newest version comes with
automatic sliding doors and a 220-volt electric socket for
laptops, as well as optional leather seats and DVD player.  “In the U.S., if you have a chief executive driving a
minivan, it looks funny,” said Allen Tsaur, president of Asian
operations for Ohio-based Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. in  Shanghai ,
who has leased four GL8s during the past decade. “Here, people
accept that. It’s become the norm.”  The minivan is a high-margin vehicle that helps boost GM’s
profits while most of its growth in  China  is coming from
cheaper, bare-bones commercial vans.  “This is a home run,” Tim Lee, president of GM’s
international operations, said in April at Beijing’s Fairmont
Hotel, where hotel staffers polished a pair of Buick minivans
out front.  The GL8 was first introduced to China in 1999, and the
research and development venture between GM and its Chinese
partner SAIC Motor Corp. led the redesign of a new version that
went on sale in late 2010.  Expenses Amortized  Development costs, based on a vehicle architecture that
dates back more than a decade, were long ago paid for, making
the GL8 “without a doubt” one of GM’s most-profitable vehicles
in China, said  Joe Phillippi , principal of consulting firm
AutoTrends Inc. in Andover,  New Jersey .  “Essentially everything is free,” Phillippi said.
“They’ll ride that pony until it dies.”  The Buick’s success is attracting more competition,
including  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s S-Max and  Toyota Motor Corp (7203) ’s
Alphard, said  John Zeng , an LMC analyst based in Shanghai.  Minivans are well-suited for China where executives tend to
travel with a larger entourage than their counterparts in
western countries, said Jochen Siebert, managing director of JSC
Consulting in Shanghai.  “If you have a normal sedan, you already have one seat
less because you have a driver in front,” said Siebert, who
leases a GL8 as a company car and uses it to pick up clients.
Sedans are “not as comfortable, as saying, ‘Hey, I have a GL8.
Let’s go to the back and talk.’”  More Entrants  The GL8 started out as a family car for expatriates with
families too big to fit in a sedan, said Terence Chiu, general
manager of Anji Car Rental & Leasing Co., a joint venture of
 Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  and SAIC. Those foreign business people
started using them as executive wagons and they soon caught on
with locals, he said. The model is so popular that it accounts
for about 17 percent of Anji’s fleet, Chiu said.  Minivans are a “smart solution” for China, said Bryan Nesbitt, head of GM’s design operations in the country. It shows
that “you can create something that’s more practical” than a
low-slung sedan, Nesbitt said, while still having “an emotional
appeal.”  --Liza Lin and Tim Higgins. Editors: Jamie Butters, David Rocks,
 Bill Koenig .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  