-- China Protests Erupt as Japanese Group Lands on Disputed Island
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-08-20T04:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/china-protests-erupt-as-japanese-group-lands-on-disputed-island.html
Protests erupted in  China  and Hong
Kong over the weekend as Japanese activists landed on an island
in the  East China Sea  claimed by both countries, intensifying a
dispute between  Asia ’s two biggest economies.  Demonstrations yesterday in more than 10 Chinese cities
featured calls for a boycott of Japanese goods, the state-run
China Youth Daily said today.  Japan  asked the Chinese government
to protect its citizens living in China, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Osamu Fujimura said.  “Japanese moving around China should be aware of their
surroundings and demonstrations in their area,” Fujimura told
reporters in  Tokyo .  China Daily  said the protests of varying
size in cities including Beijing, Qingdao, Guangzhou and
Shenzhen were mostly peaceful and the newspaper urged people to
be “rational” and not violent.  The Japanese mission came days after a group of mostly  Hong
Kong  activists were arrested and deported for visiting one of
the islands known as Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan.
Sovereignty of the area gives the holder control of undersea
natural gas and oil fields and the two countries signed a joint
development agreement in 2008 that has yet to be implemented.  The dispute has soured ties at a time when Japan is mired
in a similar row with  South Korea , while China is embroiled in
spats with  Vietnam  and the  Philippines  over the oil-rich  South
China Sea . Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara in April said his
government is seeking to buy the uninhabited chain from a
private Japanese owner, and Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  in
July said the national government may do so, drawing China’s
condemnation.  Sovereign Territory  Purchasing the islands “lays down a marker that will leave
no ambiguities on what is Japanese sovereign territory,” said
Carlyle Thayer, a professor emeritus at the Australian Defense
Force Academy, University of New South Wales. “One of the most
important foreign policy issues facing Japan is China’s rise and
growing assertiveness.”  Japanese and U.S. military officials will meet on Aug. 23
in  Washington  to discuss strengthening maritime defenses around
outlying islands, the Nikkei newspaper reported yesterday. The
talks will in part consider China’s expansion of sea power, it
said. Japan will also replace its ambassador to China after he
criticized the proposal to purchase the islands, the Yomiuri
newspaper said, without citing anyone.  Pushing back against China has its risks, as Japan found in
2010 when its Coast Guard clashed with a Chinese trawler in the
disputed waters and arrested the captain. That sparked a
diplomatic standoff, souring relations for months. China
restricted supplies of rare-earth minerals used in the
manufacture of electronic goods and hybrid cars, according to
Japan’s government.  Street Protests  Japan should immediately stop actions that undermine
China’s territorial sovereignty, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
spokesman Qin Gang said in a statement on its website yesterday.  Chinese protesters took to the streets yesterday in
Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Shenyang, Hangzhou, Harbin and Qingdao, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported. Before 9 a.m., more than
100 people had gathered near Japan’s consulate in Guangzhou, the
capital of southern  Guangdong province , Xinhua said. In
Shenzhen, protesters overturned Japanese cars, including police
vehicles, Hong Kong’s Ming Pao newspaper reported on its
 website .  In Hong Kong, hundreds of people marched in a protest
organized by the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions.  “Japan is very bad, China is very good,” said a 70-year-
old retiree clutching a miniature Chinese flag and who would
only gave his first name as Nelson. “We protest against Japan
entering our land.”  Mannequins Trampled  Demonstrators trampled on miniature mannequins of Japanese
soldiers dressed in World War II uniforms while the crowd
chanted “Diaoyu belongs to China. Get rid of Japanese
militarism.”  Growing public anger over the Diaoyu group shows the
pressure on Chinese leaders to take action, according to
commentaries carried in Hong Kong papers.  “China’s constant forbearance towards Japan’s actions in
the Diaoyu Islands is no longer accepted by its people,” the
Ming Pao newspaper said, according to a translation on the
British Broadcasting Corp.’s monitoring service.  The Chinese government had brought national humiliation by
surrendering territory, while at the same time repressing its
own people, Koo Sze-yiu, one of the 14 activists deported by
Japan, told the  South China Morning Post  in an Aug. 18. article.  Given previous attempts by the Hong Kong group to sail to
the islands were blocked by local authorities, it seems last
week’s successful attempt had the backing of the central
government, Zhou Yongsheng, a professor at China Foreign Affairs
University in Beijing, told the paper.  Rival Flags  The 10 Japanese activists were part of a group of about 150
that sailed from Okinawa prefecture and television footage
showed them raising the Japanese flag. The Chinese group that
arrived on Aug. 15, the anniversary of  Japan’s surrender in 1945 
that ended World War II, planted both Chinese and Taiwan flags.  The 10 people swam back to their boats after two hours, a
Japanese Coast Guard official, who declined to be identified
citing official policy, said by phone.  Fujimura today said that while the landing was
“regrettable,” China’s position was untenable.  “Historically and as a matter of international law, the
Senkaku islands are our country’s territory,” he said.  Telephone calls to Ganbare Nippon, the organizer of the
visit, were unanswered.  China claims the islands were unjustly handed back to Japan
after the U.S. ended its postwar occupation of Okinawa in the
early 1970s. Taiwan also claims them.  Korea Dispute  Territorial disputes are also undermining attempts by the
U.S. to replace bipartite alliances with Japan and South Korea
with a three-way regional alliance, Thayer said.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  reignited rancor with
Japan on Aug. 10 when he visited islets in the  Sea of Japan .  Both nations claim the Liancourt Rocks, called Takeshima in
Japanese and Dokdo in Korean, which lie 87 kilometers (54 miles)
east of the closest South Korean territory and 158 kilometers
from the nearest Japanese land.  Japan recalled its ambassador to South Korea in protest
after Lee’s trip.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  