-- China Swap Rate Rises Most in 11 Months as PBOC Avoids Ratio Cut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-20T09:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/china-swap-rate-rises-as-reserve-ratio-cut-speculation-fades.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
rate rose most in 11 months on signs the central bank won’t
lower lenders’ reserve requirements as property prices rebound.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand today for 14-day
reverse-repurchase  contracts , according to a trader required to
bid at the sales. The resumption of 14-day reverse-repo
operations last week suggests the monetary authority has no
intention of cutting reserve ratios in the short term, according
to a commentary published on Aug. 18 in the Financial News, a
newspaper controlled by the PBOC.  “The move is likely driven by the hawkish press report,”
said Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  Hong Kong .  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, jumped 16 basis
points to 3.07 percent as of 5:02 p.m. in  Shanghai , the biggest
increase since September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China’s new-home prices climbed from a month earlier in 49
of the 70 cities tracked by the government, the National Bureau
of Statistics said on its  website  on Aug. 18. That was the most
since May last year and compared with 25 cities in June.  The central bank also asked banks to submit orders for
seven-day reverse repurchase agreements and 28- and 91-day
repurchase contracts, according to the trader. The monetary
authority has held off from lowering reserve  ratios  since May.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 27 basis points to 3.62 percent,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The seven-day repo may reach 4.5
percent in the coming days because of month-end cash demand and
waning capital inflows, Chong said.  The yield on the 3.51 percent government bonds due February
2022 climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
3.36 percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 