-- Cold War Spy Tunnel Under Berlin Found After 56 Years
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-08-20T06:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/cold-war-spy-tunnel-under-berlin-found-after-56-years.html
A section of an ingenious tunnel
built by U.S. and British spies to intercept Russian phone
conversations in Cold War Berlin has been found after 56 years
in a forest 150 kilometers from the German capital.  The 450-meter-long tunnel, built in 1955, led from Rudow in
West Berlin to Alt-Glienicke in Soviet-occupied East Berlin. By
tapping into the enemy’s underground cables, Allied intelligence
agents recorded 440,000 phone calls, gaining a clearer picture
of Red Army maneuvers in eastern  Germany  at a time when nuclear
war seemed an imminent threat.  The western part of the tunnel was excavated in 1997 and
part of it is preserved at the  Allied Museum  in the former
American sector of Berlin. The Soviet authorities dug up the
eastern part in 1956 and until now, its fate was unknown.  “It seemed to have vanished without a trace,” said Bernd
von Kostka, a historian at the Allied Museum. “I looked through
the East German Stasi files, and there was nothing to be found
about its whereabouts. We assumed it had been melted down
because it was made of valuable metal.”  The find is one missing piece of a puzzle that will take
decades to solve completely, as access to intelligence files
about the construction and discovery of the tunnel -- a tale
worthy of a John le Carre novel -- is still restricted.  Chopping Wood  The man who discovered the buried segment is Werner
Sobolewski, 62, formerly employed in a civilian capacity by the
East German army. He was chopping wood in his local forest in
Pasewalk, near the Polish border north of Berlin, when he
stumbled across the wide metal pipe. He remembered it being used
for military exercises at the local barracks, where he had
worked before the fall of the  Berlin Wall .  He recalled too that it was then rumored to have been a
part of the Allied spy tunnel, infamous throughout eastern
Germany after the Soviets exposed it in a major propaganda
campaign in 1956. He contacted the Allied Museum and Kostka
traveled to Pasewalk to identify it last week.  “We would like to have it in the museum so that we have a
part of the eastern tunnel,” Kostka said in an interview at the
Allied Museum. “The sections we have are from the western side.
It shouldn’t stay buried underground.”  The western tunnel segment is a prize exhibit at the Allied
Museum, which is also home to the original Checkpoint Charlie
guard-hut and a Royal Air Force Hastings plane used in the
Berlin airlift of 1948 and 1949.  ‘Stopwatch’ or ‘Gold’  Displays describe the complexity of building the tunnel and
tapping the wires. The British had already constructed similar
underground listening-posts in Vienna and brought the idea,
manpower and know-how to the project, Kostka said. Codenamed
“Stopwatch” by the British and “Gold” by the Americans, it
was funded by the U.S. at a cost of $6.7 million (then a vast
sum) and operated jointly by the CIA and the British SIS.  Yet the KGB learned about the tunnel when it was still in
the planning stages -- thanks to intelligence from George Blake,
the notorious British double agent who was later imprisoned,
then escaped to the  Soviet Union . Strangely, the KGB concealed
its existence from the Soviet military because they wanted to
protect their valuable mole.  The tunnel operated for 11 months and 11 days, intercepting
some of the Red Army’s most secret communications, including
those between Moscow and the military headquarters in East
Berlin. Historians do not know why the Soviet authorities chose
to expose it when they did, on April 22, 1956. The reason is
still buried in the Kremlin’s files.  “It was clear that the tunnel had a finite lifespan and
would be discovered one day,” Kostka said. “But the Allies
expected the Soviet authorities to sweep it under the carpet.”  Instead, they held their first international press
conference in 11 years of occupation and bussed in as many as
50,000 East German citizens so that they could see first-hand
the treachery of the West.  Yet it was also a propaganda coup for the U.S. intelligence
services as the tunnel’s ingenuity impressed American observers.  “It’s a great Cold War story,” said Kostka. “Each side
could say they won.”  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on art,  John Mariani 
on wine and  Hephzibah Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 