-- Cora Masters Barry, Reginald Van Lee: Hamptons Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-08-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/cora-masters-barry-reginald-van-lee-enjoy-evidence-dance.html
The buffet and bars were abandoned.
No snack or cocktail could distract from the performance going
on in the middle of the party tent.  Members of  Evidence, a Dance Company  raised arms, twisted
torsos, wove around one another in muscular movements softened
by colorful, loosely draped costumes.  The ninth annual “On Our Toes” gala was held on the
campus of the Hayground School in Bridgehampton.  Zaid Abdul-Aleem, a principal on the private capital
advisory team at New York-based investment bank  Greenhill & Co. (GHL) 
had one arm around his son, Mason, and another around his wife,
Raven.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analyst Arthur Gardner Smith stood
with Daniel Patton, a former  UBS AG (UBSN)  investment banker who is
moving to  Chicago  for a job at  McMaster-Carr , an industrial
supplier.  Cora Masters Barry, ex-wife of former Washington Mayor
Marion Barry, sat on a white ottoman with her six-month-old
grandchild Zora.  Afterward, Evidence board member Reginald Canal, a former
HSBC banker who has started a company to market Haitian
designers, led an auction that raised more than $19,000 for the
dance company, including donations for line items in the
company’s budget.  Evidence was founded 27 years ago by Ronald K. Brown to
convey the experiences of the African diaspora through dance and
music.  ‘An Obsession’  “I’m in love with African-American dancers, it’s an
obsession,” said Candisse Collins, a lawyer for  Madison Square
Garden Co. (MSG)  “I love the rhythmic aspect, there’s always a soul
to it.”  “I’m talking to Ron about bringing the company to the
Kennedy Center,” said jazz pianist and MacArthur Fellow Jason
Moran, the Kennedy Center’s artistic adviser for jazz.  Reginald Van Lee, an executive vice president at Booz Allen
Hamilton Inc., initiated the fundraiser on the East End. The
former chairman of Evidence had the company dance at his wedding
last year.  “I just want them to continue adding more pieces and to go
to more venues,” Van Lee said.  The  New Yorker  described Brown’s choreography for “The
Gershwins’ Porgy and Bess” on Broadway as “beautifully crafted
earthy, emotional dances.” This project has given Brown,
Evidence’s artistic director, additional momentum.  The company has hired several new dancers and will perform
a new work as well as a revival of “Walking Out the Dark” when
it returns to the Joyce Theater in February 2013, Brown said.  ‘Different Synergy’  “About half of the company is new, and there’s a different
synergy,” said associate artistic director and dancer Arcell
Cabuag. “We’re having a great time with Ron working on the new
piece. We’re coming together like a beautiful family.”  “Being involved with Evidence feels like a family
reunion,” said Jenna Bond, Evidence’s young-patrons chairwoman.  To cultivate those patrons, Alaina Simone held a cocktail
party at her Chelsea gallery. Evidence also arranged for a bus
to provide transport to and from the event. It was idling in the
parking lot as guests spilled out of the tent dancing.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Hephzibah
Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 