-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall in Bet Europe Crisis Will Be Contained
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-20T21:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-in-bet-europe-crisis-will-be-contained.html
A gauge of corporate credit risk
fell to a three-month low as investors speculate that  Europe ’s
sovereign crisis won’t affect U.S. corporate balance sheets.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of
98.5 basis points at 5:16 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Credit swaps tied to  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) 
dropped after it announced a new credit facility.  Signs of improvement in an economy where the  unemployment 
rate has been more than 8 percent for 42 months may ease concern
that a global slowdown will taint corporate balance sheets and
undermine companies’ ability to repay debt. Debt investors are
shaking off the Bundesbank monthly report today that said
government bond purchases “entail significant stability
risks.” Of the 477 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, 68 percent reported earnings that beat analysts’
estimates, Bloomberg data show.  The index is declining in a “continuation of the past few
weeks,” according to  Joel Levington , managing director for
corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New
York. “Benign earnings season and summer lull” are “keeping
volatility quite low for the time being,” he said in an e-mail.  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves, is trading at the lowest level since May 3.
The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Financial Flexibility  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 3.6 basis points to 141, and
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 13.2 to
569.8, Bloomberg prices show.  Credit swaps tied to Block Financial LLC, the finance arm
of H&R Block, the biggest U.S. tax preparer, dropped 66.8 basis
points to 370.7, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Block Financial entered into a five-year, $1.5 billion
credit and guarantee agreement expiring Aug. 17, 2017, for
“general corporate purposes or working capital needs,” the
Kansas City, Missouri-based tax preparer said in a statement
today.  “This agreement gives us significant financial flexibility
and further demonstrates the confidence our banking partners
have in our business,” Greg Macfarlane, H&R Block’s chief
financial officer, said in the statement.  The swaps are down from as high as 609.5 basis points in
December, or $609,500 annually on a five-year contract
protecting $10 million of debt, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  