-- Crop Outlook Dimming as July Heat Compounded Drought Damage
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-08-20T13:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/crop-outlook-seen-eroding-as-july-heat-compounded-drought-damage.html
U.S. corn farmers hurt by the worst
drought in a generation probably will harvest smaller crops than
the government forecast this month, based an analysis of dry
spells in the past 42 years.  In the five drought years since 1970, farmers on average
harvested 85.4 percent of the acres planted, U.S. Department of
Agriculture data show. That’s below the 90.6 percent that the
USDA predicted for this year on Aug. 10, when the agency cut its
output forecast by 17 percent following the hottest July since
1936. The annual Professional  Farmers  of America survey of more
than 2,000 fields in seven Midwest states starts today.  Moderate to exceptional  drought  conditions covered 51
percent of the nine-state Midwest region as of Aug. 14, compared
with less than 1 percent a year earlier, government data show.
Corn and soybean crop conditions are the worst since the last
drought in 1988, according to the USDA. Corn futures have surged
60 percent since mid-July, boosting the cost of making livestock
feed, ethanol and food products.  “In a year like this, the only yield surprises are to the
downside,” said Michael Cordonnier, the president of Soybean &
Corn Advisor Inc. in Hinsdale,  Illinois , who sampled crops in
eight states from  Nebraska  to  Ohio  during the week ended Aug. 3.
“The number of acres harvested this year will fall.”  The USDA, which in July predicted a record corn crop after
farmers planted the most acres since 1937, cut its forecast to
10.779 billion bushels, down 13 percent from 12.358 billion last
year. The soybean forecast was reduced 12 percent to 2.692
billion bushels, down from 3.141 billion in 2011.  Further Cuts  U.S. corn harvests were  below normal  during the drought
years of 1974, 1976, 1980, 1983 and 1988, USDA data show. On
average, farmers have collected 89.2 percent of the planted
acres since 1970.  Cordonnier said the USDA will have to cut its corn estimate
by an additional 5.3 percent and soybeans by 2.3 percent. Output
from the U.S., the world’s largest grower and exporter of both
crops in 2011, will drop for a third straight year. The USDA
will next update its forecasts on Sept. 12.  “It’s a catastrophe,” said  John Cory , the chief executive
officer of Rochester, Indiana-based grain processor Prairie
Mills Products LLC. Cory, who predicted in July that corn output
would fall below 11 billion bushels, now expects a harvest as
low as 9.5 billion bushels. He said the soy harvest may fall
below 2.5 billion.  Yield Damage  After the worst U.S. drought since 1956, corn plants that
farmers will begin harvesting next month are maturing three
times faster than the five-year average, and the rate of pod
development by soybeans is 19 percent above normal, USDA data
show. Rapid development cuts yield potential and reduces the
benefits of rains the past two weeks, Cory said.  The 20th annual Pro Farmer tour will include about 120
grain buyers, analysts, traders and farmers as crop scouts to
survey fields in Ohio,  Indiana , Illinois,  Iowa , Nebraska,  South
Dakota  and  Minnesota . Corn-yield estimates and soybean-pod
counts will be reported daily and then incorporated into a
national crop forecast by Pro Farmer on Aug. 24.  “The heat was the big problem this year for corn
pollination,” when kernels were forming on cobs in July, said
Kevin Rempp, 54, who farms about 1,200 acres of corn and
soybeans with his father near Monetzuma, Iowa. Rempp predicted
corn yields in Iowa, the biggest U.S. producer, will drop 30
percent from last year and soybeans will be 10 percent to 20
percent lower. “I have farmed for more than 35 years, and this
crop is the hardest to predict because yields are extremely
variable across each field.”  Prices Rally  Corn futures for December delivery rose 0.5 percent to
$8.1125 a bushel at 8:12 a.m. on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. The
price reached an all-time high of $8.49 on Aug. 10. Soybean
futures for November delivery advanced 0.7 percent to $16.57 a
bushel on the CBOT. The most-active contract reached a record
$16.915 on July 23.  Drought has affected 87 percent of U.S. corn, 85 percent of
soybeans, 63 percent of hay and 72 percent of cattle, the
National Climatic Data Center said on Aug. 16.  Rain Relief  Increased rain from South Dakota to Ohio and cooler weather
than the record-setting heat of July will reduce the chances for
additional cuts in the government’s corn forecast and may mean a
boost for soybeans, said  Dale Durchholz , the senior analyst for
AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington, Illinois.  The government’s crop forecasts this month reflected the
biggest August reductions since at least 1974. In 1988, the
final corn forecast increased 9.1 percent from the August
estimate and soybeans gained 4.8 percent rains helped to boost
yields, Durchholz said.  The wetter August weather pattern may be tied to rising
eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean waters and the emergence of an
El Nino weather condition, Gail Martell, the president of
Martell Crop Projections in Whitefish Bay,  Wisconsin , said in a
report Aug. 16.  “The rains have at least stabilized the corn crop, and
soybeans may add a few bushels,” Durchholz said. “The big USDA
cuts probably account for most of the drought losses.”  Misleading Appearance  Thriving, green soybean plants next to fields of brown and
dead corn may be a sign that yield potential is lower than
expected, Bill Wiebold, a soybean agronomist at the  University
of Missouri  in Columbia, said in a  report  on Aug. 8.  Visually healthy fields may be the result of high nitrogen
levels in leaves because there are fewer pods to fill with
soybeans, Wiebold said in the report. The plant requires a
steady flow of water moving up roots to the pods to produce
beans. The prolonged drought may have caused soybean blossoms to
abort and no pods for the seeds to develop.  “When there is no water, the system stops working,”
Wiebold said. “That has happened in many soybean fields. We
just have not experienced anything quite like this before.”  Donna Jeschke, 59, who farms about 3,600 acres with her
husband, brother and nephew about 80 miles southeast of Chicago
near Mazon, Illinois, said she expects the farm’s corn yields
will be 50 percent below the five-year average of 190 bushels an
acre, while soybean yields may fall 15 percent.  Damaged crops may not mean losses for growers as
government-subsidized crop insurance and higher prices helps to
partially preserve farm income, the Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Chicago said in a  report  Aug. 16.  “Crop insurance will allow farmers to pay their bills and
buy inputs to plant crops the next year,” Jeschke said.
“Farmers have to be optimists and look ahead to better weather
next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  