-- Damon Fades as $1 Billion Franchise Spins On: Rainer File
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-08-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/damon-fades-as-1-billion-franchise-spins-on-rainer-file.html
The ad for “ The Bourne Legacy ”
informs us, “There Was Never Just One.” And so it is with the
“Bourne” movies.  As long as they continue to rake it in -- almost $1 billion
so far, and counting -- this franchise shows no sign of fading
to black.  More a re-boot than a sequel, “Legacy” mostly dispenses
with Jason Bourne and introduces Aaron Cross ( Jeremy Renner ) as
a chemically-enhanced U.S. government assassin.  Co-written and directed by Tony Gilroy, it’s the fourth
film in the series, which began in 2002 with  Matt Damon  in “ The
Bourne Identity ” (still my favorite).  If you’re counting television, the bloodline goes back to
the 2-part 1988 ABC  mini-series  starring Richard Chamberlain as
everybody’s favorite amnesiac off-the-grid CIA assassin.  The mini-series more closely followed Robert Ludlum’s 1980
bestseller than did the 2002 Damon version, directed by Doug
Limon, but, except for Ludlum purists, who really cares? Limon’s
version dispensed with all that Ludlum baggage about Vietnam and
Carlos the Jackal, concentrating on smash-and-grab action.  Buff Damon  Damon -- credible as a man who doesn’t remember who he is
and who, unlike Chamberlain, looks like he could indeed take out
a roomful of assailants -- is terrific. As a survivalist, he
manages to be both cerebral and kinesthetic -- a brainiac human
missile.  Ludlum wrote three “Bourne” books before he died -- he
didn’t live to see the release of “The Bourne Identity” movie
-- and they all share a Cold War mindset. By contrast, the
“Bourne” films, which also include 2004’s “ The Bourne
Supremacy ” and 2007’s “ The Bourne Ultimatum ” (both starring
Damon and directed by Paul Greengrass), exist in a post-9/11
world.  The Black Ops tortures and assassinations are argued for as
necessities. “We need these programs now,” says CIA honcho
David Strathairn in “Ultimatum.” Even though he’s ostensibly a
villain (this is confirmed when he orders a heart-healthy omelet
for lunch) so is just about everybody else in the “Bourne”
movies. Even Bourne, sort of. He just can’t remember the
villainy he was programmed to carry out  Collateral Damage  We periodically watch him knock off not only his assailants
but also vast populations of collateral innocents (as in the
Berlin car chase scene in “Supremacy.”) In “Ultimatum,” he
actually apologizes, but that seems like a sop to the PC
contingent. Being Bourne means -- or ought to mean -- never
having to say you’re sorry. That’s life.  His amnesia, which partially falls away in the Damon
movies, harkens back to the pre-Cold War era. It’s a holdover
from those 1940s B-list films noir like “Somewhere in the
Night” and “The Dark Past,” or retro updates like “Memento”
and “Mulholland Drive.”  Sullen, a loner by nature as much as by necessity, Bourne
is the anti- James Bond  (at least pre-Daniel Craig). His
itinerary may be just as impressive as James Bond’s -- with
stopovers in Tangier, Madrid, Berlin, Paris and  London , among
other photogenic places -- but he gets no pleasure from them.
He’s too hounded. And unlike Bond, he’s not vain. You can’t
imagine him wearing a tux. No disguises for him. No bad puns.
Very little booty. He doesn’t go in for sunglasses much, even in
Tangier.  Cross Purpose  Renner’s Aaron Cross is almost as sullen as Bourne, and
even less apologetic. He breaks necks in the line of duty --
nothing personal -- and moves on.  Greengrass, who passed on “Legacy” and has a running feud
with Gilroy, has dubbed the project “The Bourne Redundancy.” I
wouldn’t go that far. Even though I miss Bourne in it, I don’t
miss Greengrass’s herky-jerky camerawork, which is supposed to
be “realistic” but made me want to reach for the Dramamine.  Gilroy at least understands that the “Bourne” movies sell
fantasy, which is best delivered with a steady hand.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News.  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on  wine  and Peter
Rainer on  movies .  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  