-- Dasa Underperforms Health-Care Peers as Executives Leave
-- B y   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-08-20T19:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/dasa-trails-health-companies-as-managers-leave-corporate-brazil.html
Diagnosticos da America SA (DASA3) ’s back-
to-back top management changes since January are hurting
confidence in  Brazil ’s biggest provider of medical diagnostics,
dragging down shares this year as health-care peers rally.  Dasa, as the Barueri, Brazil-based company is known, fell
24 percent in Sao Paulo trading this year before today, the
worst performer among health-care companies, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Amil Participacoes SA (AMIL3) , Brazil’s largest health-
care insurance provider, has gained 17 percent this year, while
dental-plan provider  OdontoPrev SA (ODPV3)  has climbed 13 percent.  The company’s stock is falling even as rising incomes allow
more people to leave Brazil’s  public health system , which serves
about 75 percent of the population, for private providers.
Investors are looking for Dasa to outline its strategy to fuel
growth after having seven different chief executive or chief
financial officers this year, said Guilherme Assis, an analyst
at Raymond James.  “The company is in a more difficult phase now on higher
costs due to investments, sales haven’t yet picked up, results
are not good,” Assis said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. “Investors are looking at those factors, which justify
the share drop.”  Falling Profit  Dasa said in an Aug. 13 regulatory filing that second-
quarter profit  dropped  9.6 percent from a year earlier to 23.1
million reais ($11.4 million), after falling 18 percent in the
first three months of the year. Competitor  Fleury SA (FLRY3)  had a 3
percent drop in profit. Amil posted a 9.7 percent increase,
while Odontoprev reported a 21 percent gain in net income.  Costs rose as Dasa hired personnel and invested 49.3
million reais in the quarter, up 34 percent from a year earlier,
to revamp units, buy equipment and improve technology, according
to the filing.  “We are creating the base for a profitable and sustainable
company for coming years,” CEO Dickson Esteves Tangerino said
on a conference call on Aug. 14. “We’ll still have some costs
in the third quarter related to those in the second quarter,
something that won’t happen in the fourth quarter.”  Tangerino took over as CEO in June, replacing Chairman
Romeu Cortes Domingues, who had been acting as the interim chief
since Marcelo Noll Barboza vacated the post in April. CFO
Cynthia May Hobbs was named in June, the latest of four people
to occupy the role this year.  Dasa’s press office declined to comment.  No Guidance  “Management isn’t giving guidance,” Josh Milberg, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank in  Sao Paulo , wrote in an Aug. 15
report. “The issues that hurt second-quarter results have
considerably obscured the profitability outlook.”  Dasa will benefit in coming quarters as more people shift
to private health-insurance plans, boosting demand for
diagnostic services, said Rodolfo Amstalden, an analyst at
equity consulting firm Empiricus Research.  “Dasa is investing in training employees, hiring more and
better doctors, expanding its  call centers ,” he said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Earnings and share prices
may still suffer a bit in coming quarters because of these
costs, but the company is going in the right direction to win
back clients and investor confidence.”  ‘Benefit of the Doubt’  The stock rose 2 percent to 12.0S5 reais at 4:14 p.m in Sao
Paulo while Fleury fell 1.1 percent, Amil gained 0.7 percent and
Odontoprev advanced 0.4 percent. Dasa  traded  at 27.2 times
earnings as of yesterday’s close while Fleury’s ratio is 32.1,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Analysts have cut their 12-month target price for Dasa by
 36 percent  since the 2011 peak, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Of the 15 analysts who rate the stock and are tracked by
Bloomberg, two recommend selling and seven say hold. At the
start of the year, more than half the analysts rated the stock a
“buy.”  “The market is not ready to give the benefit of the doubt
until results show good improvements,”  Raymond James ’ Assis
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  