-- Declining Circumcision Rates in U.S. Raise Disease Risk
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-08-20T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/declining-circumcision-rates-in-u-s-raise-disease-risk.html
Infant boys in the U.S. are less
likely to get  circumcised  now than in years past, a trend that
leaves them vulnerable to sexually transmitted infections and
may add billions of dollars to health-care costs, Johns Hopkins
University researchers said.  About 55 percent of the 2 million males born each year in
America are circumcised, a decrease from 79 percent in the
1980s, according to the report in the  Archives of Pediatrics &
Adolescent Medicine . The procedure, which removes the foreskin
from the tip of the penis where bacteria and viruses accumulate,
is linked to fewer cases of HIV, herpes, genital warts and
genital cancers among men and their sexual partners.  Circumcision has gathered support from groups such as the
 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  for use in  Africa  and other
areas of the world where HIV is widespread as public health
officials consider it one of the most effective ways to curb
infection. It has gotten less attention in the U.S., where 18
state Medicare programs for the poor dropped coverage of the
procedure and private insurers have followed, researchers said.  “If there were a vaccine that reduced HIV infection,
genital herpes and warts, penile cancer, cervical cancer and
bacterial vaginosis, it would be promoted as a game changing
intervention, and all physicians would encourage their patients
to get it,” said  Aaron Tobian , a health epidemiologist and
pathologist at Johns Hopkins and senior researcher on the study.
“The difference is this is a surgery with very minor
complications, and it also has a cultural tone to it.”  Health Costs  The lack of protection may boost U.S. health-care costs by
$4.4 billion if rates plunge in the next decade to levels seen
in  Europe , where 10 percent of boys are circumcised, according
to the analysis by health economists at  Johns Hopkins . Each time
a circumcision is avoided, $313 is added in direct illness-
related expenses, after taking into account the cost of the
procedure, Tobian said in a telephone interview.  “All state Medicaid and private insurers should cover male
circumcision and we should eliminate all of the current
barriers,” he said. “Families should discuss the risks and
benefits of the procedure with their physicians and decide what
is best for them.”  Tobian criticized the  American Academy of Pediatrics , which
is reviewing its policy position on infant male circumcision.
The academy doesn’t recognize any of the health benefits linked
to the procedure, despite overwhelming evidence, he said.  Reduces Burden  “Documentation that male circumcision not only reduces the
burden of sexually transmitted infections for both men and
women, but also reduces lifetime treatment costs should provide
compelling arguments in favor of infant male circumcision,”
 Arleen A. Leibowitz  and Katherine Desmond from the  University of
California ,  Los Angeles ’ Center for HIV Identification,
Prevention and Treatment Services, wrote in an editorial
accompanying the study.  Medicaid plans  cover two-fifths of all 4 million births
each year in the U.S. If they were all to drop coverage of
circumcision, just one in three newborn males would get the
procedure, according to projections from an earlier study, they
wrote. Eliminating coverage creates health disparities that will
remain with disadvantaged children into adulthood, they said.  Medicaid is the joint federal-state government health
program for the poor.  “States’ efforts to reduce current costs by eliminating
Medicaid coverage for male circumcision are penny-wise and pound
foolish,” they said. “Investing today in a relatively low-cost
procedure will avert greater future treatment costs for cancer,
HIV, and other STIs,” they wrote, calling on the federal
government to reclassify the procedure as a mandatory service.  “Indeed, the groups that Medicaid covers are precisely
those that experience the greatest prevalence of HIV and other
STIs, which male circumcision can effectively avert,” Leibowitz
and Desmond wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  