-- Delays Leave Shell With Only Weeks to Drill in Arctic
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/delays-leave-shell-with-only-weeks-to-drill-in-arctic.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has spent
seven years and $4.5 billion, and fought off at least 50 lawsuits,
for a chance to tap what is thought to be the biggest source of
oil in the U.S. outside of the  Gulf of Mexico .  With the last of more than 30 permit applications still
pending, time is running out to get much drilling done off the
coast of  Alaska  before having to stop for winter.  Even if the U.S. Interior Department granted the final
permit this week another 14 days would be needed to get a
specially designed barge to the area. That means work the
company had planned to have under way in July couldn’t begin
until September. Drilling has to end by Sept. 24 in the  Chukchi
Sea , and Oct. 31 in the  Beaufort Sea  -- and can’t resume until
July under the terms of permits it has already obtained.  “It seems to me that we are getting closer and closer to
the point where they might not be able to do anything this
year,”  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research Co. in  New
York , said Aug. 17 in a telephone interview. “They’re running
out of time.”  Permits, Lawsuits  Shell, based in The Hague, is seeking to be the first
company to drill in the federally controlled U.S. arctic waters
in two decades. It has spent $4.5 billion to obtain drilling
rights, purchase equipment and procure permits from various
federal agencies in pursuit of an underwater supply of oil
estimated to hold more than 20 billion barrels.  “Our goal remains to drill and complete as many wells as
time will allow this open-water drilling season,” including
beginning wells that can be completed next year, Kelly op de
Weegh, a Shell spokeswoman, said in an e-mail Aug. 16.  “We are in communication with a number of agencies and are
considering our options,” she said. “We will make the most of
the time we have this season.”  Shell’s drilling season is limited by the harsh Arctic
climate. The Sept. 24 and Oct. 31  deadlines  imposed by the
Interior Department are based on historic patterns of ice
formation and include time to clean up any spills before winter
conditions make such work nearly impossible.  RBC Capital Markets  downgraded Shell to “sector perform”
from “top pick” last month, saying the company’s growth
projects, including the Alaskan oil exploration and investments
in liquefied natural-gas projects in Australia, are “perceived
as higher cost, higher risk, less-visible reward,” according to
a July 18 note to investors.  High Stakes  “The stakes are so high, and the upside of producing oil
from the Arctic is potentially so high, that they may actually
go ahead and decide to do as much as they can this year,”  Tad Patzek , professor and chairman of the Petroleum & Geosystems
Engineering Department at the  University of Texas  at Austin,
said in an interview. “I think they’re going to just put a
flag, so to speak, on the sea floor.”  An Arctic well takes two weeks to a month to drill,
according to Patzek. It’s a costly endeavor: Shell’s expenses
include leasing the Noble Discoverer drilling rig from  Noble
Corp. (NE)  for $240,000 a day, along with about two dozens other
 vessels , according to the two companies.  “It would be better off just saving that money and putting
it toward next year,” said Jackie Savitz, senior campaign
director at the Washington-based environmental group Oceana that
opposes the drilling. “But then, they could also say -- ‘But,
you know what, let’s just go ahead and do it so we can kind of,
you know, sort of smooth the way for what we want to do next
year.’”  Two Wells  Shell’s exploration plans originally called for 10 wells --
five this year and five next -- with work beginning last month.
Ice that remained longer than usual and Coast Guard concerns
with the spill-containment barge, the Arctic Challenger, delayed
the start and caused Shell to cut the number of wells planned
for this year from five to two.  Arctic Challenger is still in Bellingham,  Washington . It
was designed to help contain an  oil spill , as required by new
safety requirements imposed by the U.S. after the 2010  BP Plc (BP/) 
oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  The Coast Guard is waiting for Shell to fix deficiencies
found in the safety systems, Jamie Frederick, a Coast Guard
spokesman, said in a phone interview on Aug. 17.  Nobody has drilled in federal offshore areas north of
Alaska since the early 1990s, when lower  oil prices  reduced
potential profits.  Once the Coast Guard approves the barge, Shell will have to
demonstrate its oil-containment system in open water, op de
Weegh said. A similar test on another device earlier this year
took only a day, and it should be the last step before obtaining
the final permit, she said.  “It’s a necessity for Shell to be able to demonstrate that
they have met regulatory requirements,” Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  told reporters on Aug. 13 in Anchorage. If the company
fails, “there won’t be Shell exploration” this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  