-- DreamWorks Animation Trims Costs With Fox, Gains Revenue
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-08-21T04:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/dreamworks-animation-hires-fox-to-distribute-movies-through-2017.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ’s
distribution deal with Twentieth Century Fox achieved Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg ’s goal of slicing costs
while furthering plans to find new revenue as DVD sales shrink.  The accord announced yesterday pays News Corp.-owned Fox
the same 8 percent film-distribution fee in the U.S. as the deal
it replaces with  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures . DreamWorks
Animation will spend less -- a 6 percent fee -- on growing
digital formats such as video-on-demand and online rental, while
keeping revenue from domestic television such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   Katzenberg, pitting Fox against  Sony Corp. (6758)  in negotiations,
pushed to lower costs at the studio, which is battling an
industry drop in DVD sales as well as tougher competition for
family audiences. He said he’s considering Fox as a partner in
cable-television channels he plans in the U.S. and elsewhere as
he builds new businesses to increase sales.  “It is a topic of interest and one that we will pursue,”
Katzenberg said of his TV ambitions on a conference call.
“Certainly we’ll be pursuing it with our partners at Fox.”  This year, Glendale, California-based DreamWorks Animation
has announced plans for a New Jersey theme park, as well as an
animation studio and live entertainment venture in  China . Last
month, Katzenberg announced a deal to  acquire  Classic Media,
owner of characters including Casper the ghost.  Lower distribution fees will further improve the company’s
financial situation, he said.  “Our new agreement with Fox presents more favorable
economics overall,” Katzenberg said in a statement.  ‘Solid Partner’  DreamWorks Animation, based in Glendale,  California , will
pay 8 percent to Fox for home-video and international television
sales, in addition to theatrical distribution of its movies,
according to Katzenberg.  Altogether, the Fox agreement amounts to about a 1 percent
fee reduction for DreamWorks Animation,  Barton Crockett , an
analyst with Lazard Capital Markets in  New York , wrote in a
research note. Lazard had expected a larger reduction of about
1.5 percent in DreamWorks’ costs, he said.  “The main advantage is that DreamWorks has a solid partner
in Fox,” he wrote.  Katzenberg has said he plans to use the characters from
Classic Media to help create a cable-television channel for both
the U.S. and international markets. While the company is
discussing a venture with Fox, it is free to look elsewhere for
a partner, Katzenberg said.  “This remains both an ambition and an opportunity for
us,” Katzenberg said. “They have enormous expertise and
experience in this area,” he said of Fox, citing the company’s
350 international channels.  Share Decline  DreamWorks Animation  rose  as much as 4.5 percent to $18.51
in extended trading yesterday after the deal was announced. The
stock has advanced 6.8 percent this year to yesterday’s close of
$17.72 in New York.  News Corp. (NWSA) , based in New York, was unchanged in extended
trading. The Class A shares fell 0.9 percent to $23.06 at the
close of regular trading and have gained 29 percent in 2012.  DreamWorks Animation’s net income has declined to a
 projected  $71 million this year, the average of five analysts’
estimates, from $218.4 million in 2007. The shares have lost
about 60 percent from a high of $44 in March 2010.  Paramount will distribute “Rise of the Guardians,” its
last film for DreamWorks Animation, in November. Fox will start
with “The Croods” in March, Katzenberg said.  Fox already produces and distributes animated films. Its
July 13 release, “Ice Age: Continental Drift,” has collected
almost $800 million in worldwide sales, the most of any animated
feature this year, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  “Madagascar 3:  Europe ’s Most Wanted,” DreamWorks
Animation’s one release so far this year, has collected $565
million worldwide, according to Box Office Mojo.  DreamWorks Animation has three releases scheduled for 2013,
including “The Croods,” “Turbo” in July and “Mr. Peabody &
Sherman,” in December, according to Box Office Mojo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  