-- E-House Leads ADR Retreat on PBOC Policy Bets: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-20T21:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/e-house-leads-adr-retreat-on-pboc-policy-bets-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  fell in  New York 
and E-House China Holdings Ltd. dropped the most in a week after
an increase in  home prices  in July spurred concern the central
bank will avoid easing monetary policy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. declined 0.6 percent to 90.63
yesterday, a two-week low. E-House, a provider of property
agency services, slid for a third day. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co.
retreated 2.3 percent after its Australian unit said it’s
reviewing expansion plans. Qihoo 360 Technology Co. surged to
the highest level since May as the maker of China’s most-used
Web browser is set to report second-quarter earnings today.  July home prices climbed from a month earlier in 49 of the
70 cities tracked by the Chinese government, the statistics
bureau said on its website on Aug. 18. That was the most since
May last year and compared with 25 cities in June. The latest
report adds to evidence the housing market is picking up after
the People’s Bank of China cut  interest rates  for the first time
in three years on June 7 and announced a second reduction less
than a month later,  Henderson Global Investors  said.  Rising home prices may “mean Chinese authorities will keep
tight control on the property sector,” Charlie Awdry, a
portfolio manager at Henderson’s $800 million China
Opportunities Fund, said by phone from  London  yesterday. “The
government’s actions would be more on the fiscal side, subsidy
side or consumer-related side.”  Housing Prices  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dipped 0.1 percent to 34.46 in
its fourth day of declines. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
the biggest U.S. shares was little changed at 1,418.13.  China may expand a property tax trial and raise the
“threshold” for home pre-sales if housing prices rebound too
fast, Shanghai Securities News reported yesterday, citing
unidentified people.  E-House (EJ)  slid 4.7 percent to $5.23, the lowest level since
Aug. 7. The Shanghai-based company said on Aug. 16 second-
quarter sales rose 25 percent from a year earlier to $114.1
million, more than the $99.4 million average estimate of four
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Net loss for the quarter was
$7.8 million, compared with a loss of $10.3 million forecast by
analysts.  Signs of warming up in China’s property market in the
second quarter was “partly driven by a better credit
environment,” Xin Zhou, E-House’s chief executive officer said
in the Aug. 16 statement. “The government’s overall cooling
measures for the Chinese real estate market will remain in place
for the near future.”  Yancoal Plans  Yanzhou Coal’s American depositary receipts fell to $15.47,
the lowest level since Aug. 2. The ADRs, each representing 10
underlying shares, traded 0.3 percent below its Hong Kong stock,
a second day of discounts.  Yancoal  Australia  Ltd., which is controlled by Yanzhou
Coal, will review expansion plans at its seven mines to “ensure
that the appropriate capital expenditure discipline is
maintained,” the Sydney-based Yancoal said yesterday in a
presentation sent to Australia’s stock exchange.  China’s benchmark thermal-coal price at Qinhuangdao port
was unchanged for a third week, at a range of 620  yuan  ($97) to
635 yuan a metric ton as of yesterday from a week earlier, data
from the China Coal Transport and Distribution Association
showed. The midpoint of the  price range  fell to the lowest level
since October 2009 during the week ended July 29.  Qihoo’s Browser  Qihoo 360, also a computer security software developer,
jumped 9 percent to $20.21, the highest level since May 30.  The Beijing-based company started an online search engine
last week for public testing, co-Chief Financial Officer Alex Xu
said in a phone interview on Aug. 15, adding the product may
eventually generate advertising sales.  “Some postings on discussion forums over the weekend have
stated that Qihoo’s new search engine has diverted more traffic
to some company websites than Sohu’s search engine,” Henry Guo,
an analyst at ThinkEquity Partners LLC said by phone from  San
Francisco  yesterday. “This helped dispel earlier concerns that
Qihoo may not have the technical ability to develop a search
engine successfully. I also expect its second-quarter sales to
reach the top end of its guidance.”  Sohu.com Inc. owns  China ’s third-biggest online search
engine while Baidu Inc. has the biggest.  Qihoo forecast on May 22 that second-quarter sales would
jump as much as 108 percent to $73 million. It is scheduled to
report the results today after U.S. markets close.  ‘Strong Positive’  Qihoo’s third-quarter sales guidance may exceed analysts’
average estimates, mainly driven by its games and advertising
business, Tian X. Hou, the founder of T.H. Capital LLC in China,
said in a research note yesterday.  “QIHU can easily convert its browser users into search
engine users. The expansion into the search area could be a
strong positive for the company’s growth in the foreseeable
future,” Hou wrote.  Sohu lost 1.7 percent, the biggest slump in a week, to
$39.92 while Baidu retreated 2.3 percent to $130.91, snapping a
two-day rally.  Youku Inc. (YOKU) , the most popular online video website in China,
sank 2.4 percent to $18.08.  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO) , the second
largest video company, declined 1.8 percent to $28.76, halting a
three-day gain.  Shareholders at both companies approved Youku’s acquisition
of Tudou in separate meetings on Aug. 19, the companies said in
statements yesterday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.4 percent to 2,106.96
yesterday, the lowest level since July 31. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies also dropped 0.4 percent
to 9,794.86.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  