-- Gasoline Gains on Speculation Demand Rising for Labor Day
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-08-20T19:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/heating-oil-gains-as-inventories-19-below-year-earlier.html
Gasoline rose for the first time in
three days on speculation that demand will increase as the U.S.
approaches the Sept. 3 Labor Day holiday.  Futures gained as supplies of the motor fuel fell in the
week ended Aug. 10 to the lowest level since June 15 and the
least for this time of the year since 2008, according to Energy
Department data. Wholesale consumption jumped to a 13-month
high. Stronger Brent crude oil increased the price of imported
crude and gasoline.  “Gasoline is the strongest of the products with the draw
we had last week,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of
Paramount Options Inc. in  New York .  September-delivery gasoline rose 0.33 cent to settle at
$3.0308 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Gasoline demand typically declines after the Labor Day
holiday, which falls this year on Sept. 3. Emissions
specifications will loosen after the summer, making the fuel
cheaper to make and expanding available supply.  Heating oil for September delivery rose 0.05 cent to
$3.0931 a gallon on the exchange.  Hedge funds  increased bullish bets on  heating oil  futures
and options by 67 percent in the seven days ended Aug. 14,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report on Aug. 17.  “As we exit the gasoline season with adequate supplies to
make it through Labor Day, the market is looking at distillate
inventories, which have been declining over the summer,” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, was
unchanged at $3.72 a gallon yesterday, AAA data showed. That’s
the highest level since May 16 and a record high for this time
of the year. Prices have climbed 39.4 cents since July 1,
according to data from the nation’s largest motoring
organization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  