-- Greenlight May Have Made $72 Million on Coventry
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-08-20T20:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/einhorn-s-greenlight-may-have-made-66-million-on-coventry.html
Greenlight Capital Inc.,  David Einhorn ’s $7.7 billion hedge fund, may have made $72 million
from its stake in  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  as the shares
surged, according to regulatory filings.  Coventry soared 20 percent today after  Aetna Inc. (AET) , the
third-biggest U.S. health plan, agreed to buy the Bethesda,
Maryland-based firm. Greenlight bought 6.66 million shares of
Coventry in the second quarter, according to a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The New York hedge fund
told clients last month that it bought Coventry shares at an
average price of $31.22. The holding is valued at $280 million
today, assuming Greenlight didn’t reduce or increase its stake
since the last filing.  Aetna today agreed to buy Coventry for about $5.6 billion
to increase its share of business from government health plans
following President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul.
Greenlight said in the letter to investors last month that
Coventry and  Cigna Corp. (CI)  have unlevered balance sheets and trade
at single-digit price-earnings ratios, making them cheap.  “They have no exposure to the European currency crisis, a
possible Chinese slowdown or other cyclical headwinds,”
Greenlight said in a July 23 letter to investors.  Share Premium  Aetna will pay $42.08 a share for Coventry, including
$27.30 in cash and 0.3885 Aetna share, the companies said today
in a statement. That represents a 20 percent premium over
Coventry’s closing price of $34.94 on Aug. 17, which gave the
company a market value of $4.68 billion. Including debt, the
deal is valued at $7.3 billion. Coventry closed at $42.04 in New
York today.  Aetna joins competitors  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  and Cigna Corp. in
making acquisitions as the U.S. government expands medical
coverage. WellPoint said last month it would buy Medicaid
insurer  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  for $4.9 billion, and Cigna bought
Medicare specialist Healthspring Inc. for $3.8 billion in
January.  Mitt Romney, seeking to defeat President Barack Obama in
this year’s elections, has vowed to repeal Obama’s health-care
overhaul after the U.S. Supreme Court on June 28 upheld the core
of the legislation.  Greenlight returned 3.4 percent in the first half of the
year, according to the letter. Hedge funds gained 1.1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Jonathan Doorley, a
spokesman for New York-based Greenlight, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  