-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop Amid China Policy, Europe Concerns
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-20T22:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/emerging-stocks-fall-to-two-week-low-amid-china-policy-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell on
concern  China  will hold off easing monetary policy as property
prices rebounded and after the Bundesbank criticized the
 European Central Bank ’s bond repurchasing program.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 0.2 percent to
969.21, with 350 stocks declining compared with 224 advancing.
Brazil’s Bovespa stock index rose, led by real estate company
Gafisa SA and as online retailer  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo 
advanced for a third day.  Soho China Ltd. (410) , a property developer,
lost 3.5 percent. The  Shanghai  Composite Index slumped to the
lowest level since July 31.  The  People’s Bank of China  has no plan to cut lenders’
reserve-requirement ratios in the short term, the central bank’s
Financial News said in a commentary. Chinese new-home prices
climbed in 49 of 70 cities tracked by the government, the most
since May of last year, the National Bureau of Statistics said
Aug. 18. Germany’s Bundesbank stepped up its criticism of the
European Central Bank’s plan to embark on potentially
“unlimited” government bond purchases.  “Markets may be down because investors have priced in
China pumping in some more liquidity into the system,”  Win
Thin , global head of emerging-market strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co., said by phone from New York. “The property
price report may make the PBOC a little more reluctant to add to
easing measures.”  EM ETF Slips  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, was little
changed at 40.45. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, advanced 1.8 percent.  The Bovespa gained 0.3 percent with Gafisa increasing 5.7
percent to the highest since May 7. B2W advanced 3.7 percent.  A report last week showed retail sales in Brazil
unexpectedly increased, while the central bank said on Aug. 17
that the country’s seasonally adjusted economic activity  index (VXEEM) ,
a proxy for gross domestic product, rose 0.75 percent in June
from May, more than analysts had expected.  China’s policy makers cut  interest rates  in June and July
after two reductions in banks’ reserve-requirement ratios this
year as the economy expanded at the slowest pace since 2009.  Comments from the Bundesbank suggest President Jens
Weidmann won’t support a measure the ECB is rushing to design to
help reduce governments’ borrowing costs and win them time to
implement fiscal reforms.  Thailand cut its economic growth forecast today, while
Taiwan’s export orders dropped more than economists forecast in
July.  Property Curbs  China may expand a property tax trial and raise the
“threshold” for home pre-sales if housing prices rebound too
fast, the Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing
unidentified people. Soho China closed at the lowest since June
5, while  Shui On Land Ltd. (272)  slid 2.3 percent.  Shares in Lonmin Plc, the world’s third-biggest producer of
platinum, dropped 4 percent in Johannesburg after Deutsche Bank
AG downgraded the company’s London-listed shares to sell from
hold, extending last week’s 13 percent decline as clashes
between striking mine workers and police at its Marikana mine
left 34 dead on Aug. 16.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 5.8 percent this
year, compared with a 9.1 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index of developed nations. The developing-nations measure
 trades  at 10.8 times estimated earnings, compared with 13.1 for
the MSCI World, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  dropped 0.4 percent and the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  also slipped 0.4 percent to the lowest close
since July 31. Taiwan’s Taiex Index lost 0.5 percent. Markets in
Turkey, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines
are closed for holidays.  Property Prices  “A rebound in property prices is bad for the economy as
the government will refrain from conducting further policy
easing,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities
Co. in Shanghai. “Investor sentiment is bad and the market will
test new lows,” Li said, referring to Chinese equities.  Thailand’s gross domestic product is forecast to expand 5.5
percent to 6 percent, compared with a previous growth range of
5.5 percent to 6.5 percent, Arkhom Termpittayapaisith,
secretary-general of the National Economic and Social
Development Board, said in Bangkok. Taiwan’s export orders
dropped 4.4 percent from a year earlier in July, compared with a
2.98 percent median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  Samsung, LG Innotek  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  fell 0.9 percent in Seoul to a two-
week low. The stock was the biggest drag on the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index after the company and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  reported they
made no progress in narrowing a patents dispute.  LG Innotek Co. (011070)  rallied 6.1 percent after Taurus Investment
& Securities Co. said the South Korean company’s camera-module
sales will increase.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 315, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  