-- Energy Week Ahead: Vestas May Offer Plan for Colorado Job Cuts
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-08-20T04:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/energy-week-ahead-vestas-may-offer-plan-for-colorado-job-cuts.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s
biggest wind-turbine maker, is likely to give details this week
of its plan to cut as many as 1,600 jobs mainly in Colorado amid
a standoff in Congress over a tax break for the industry.  Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  said in January that
U.S. jobs would be scrapped “for sure” unless Congress extends
the production tax credit, or PTC, which expires at the end of
2012. He may provide more details Wednesday when the Aarhus,
Denmark-based company reports earnings for the first half of
2012.  Gamesa Corp. (GAM)  Tecnologica SA and other manufacturers in the
industry also have announced layoffs.  Some Republicans in Congress such as Representative Mike Pompeo of Kansas are blocking President  Barack Obama ’s effort to
extend the program, saying the companies  can prosper without
the PTC. He favors ending all energy tax credits. As many as
37,000 U.S. jobs could be lost if the credit isn’t renewed,
according to the Washington-based  American Wind Energy
Association .  “It certainly should be a wakeup call to the folks who’ve
been holding the production tax credit as a political hostage,”
Franz Matzner, associate director of government affairs for the
 Natural Resources Defense Council , said in an interview. “The
reality on the ground is showing just how dangerous that kind of
fact-free politicization can be.”  The incentive is worth 2.2 cents a kilowatt-hour for wind
power and helps make the technology profitable in the U.S. The
wind industry employs about 75,000 nationwide. Turbine orders
are forecast to plunge 56 percent next year without the
incentive, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  While slack demand in 2013 means Vestas will require fewer
workers, it’s faced a surge this year as wind-park developers
rush projects to completion before the credit expires.  “We’re getting close to the end of the year, and those
layoffs are starting to happen,” Rob Witherell, a spokesman for
the United Steelworkers union, said in an interview. “I would
expect in the next month or so to hear more stories of these
layoffs. There just aren’t going to be any orders for the U.S.
The companies that are still making turbines are making them for
export.”  Vestas spent more than $1 billion on four factories in
 Colorado  and has more than 3,000 employees across the U.S. It
also has a sales office in Portland, Oregon, and research and
development centers in Texas and Massachusetts. In January,
Engel said it would be “wrong” to say Vestas will close its
U.S. plants, suggesting a reduction in the workforce and turbine
output was more likely.  Obama says the tax credit should be renewed and campaigned
in Oskaloosa,  Iowa , on Aug. 14 noting that 20 percent of the
state’s power comes from wind. Republican contender  Mitt Romney 
appeared at an Ohio coal mine that day joking that “you can’t
drive a car with a windmill on it.” Romney would allow the
credit to expire to “create a level playing field on which all
sources of energy can compete on their merits,” his spokesman,
 Ryan Williams , said last week in an e-mail.  Republicans such as Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa and
Representative Roscoe Bartlett of Maryland support the credit.
Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, included a one-year extension in a $205.1 billion tax
bill approved Aug. 2 by the panel on a 19-5 bipartisan vote.  “These are critical jobs for a lot of communities, many of
which have been turned around by wind manufacturing,” said
Robert Gramlich, senior vice president of public policy at the
wind association. “Every company is telling us privately that
layoffs are possible and may be coming.”  Congress last allowed the credit to lapse in 2003. Annual
wind installations declined to 397 megawatts in 2004 from 1,670
megawatts the previous year, according to the wind association.  Vestas already announced 182 U.S. job cuts as part of 2,335
positions eliminated worldwide this year. The  Denver Post  last
week reported that the company said it would cut about 20
percent of the 450 jobs at its factory in Pueblo, Colorado.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  ARCTIC OIL: U.S. Deputy Interior Secretary  David Hayes  and Pete
Slaiby, who runs  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Alaska operations, meet
in Anchorage on Friday for several days of talks on the the
opportunities offered by the state’s natural resources. Shell is
looking for a final U.S. okay to start exploring for oil and gas
in the waters off Alaska’s north coast. The company would have
to finish drilling this season by the end of October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  