-- Merchant Ivory Sues Janus Films Over Movie Distribution
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-08-20T17:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/merchant-ivory-sues-janus-films-over-movie-distribution.html
Merchant Ivory Productions Ltd. , the
maker of films such as “A Room With a View,” accused movie
distributor Janus Films LLC OF infringing copyrights by
distributing films after their licensing deals expired.  Janus, which handles the so-called  Criterion Collection ,
initially was granted rights to 26 Merchant Ivory films in 1999,
according to a lawsuit filed today in federal court in
 Manhattan . The agreements for all of the films except “Howards
End” expired by Dec. 31, and Merchant Ivory later learned Janus
was still distributing them, according to the complaint.  “Plaintiffs therefore bring this action to protect their
copyrights in and to the films being exploited by Janus without
plaintiffs’ permission,” Merchant Ivory said in the complaint
filed by attorneys  Zeynel Karcioglu  and  Stephen Nakamura .  “Janus denies any unlawful distribution of any Merchant
Ivory title,” Jeffrey Ullman, a lawyer for Janus, said in a
phone interview. He declined to comment further, saying the
company hadn’t been served with the suit.  The lawsuit followed Janus’s efforts to negotiate a new
license agreement, which were complicated by an arbitration
proceeding between London-based Merchant Ivory and an entity
called ACKMA Recovery LLC and discussions over a proposed deal
with  HanWay Films , according to the complaint. Either deal
required approval from ACKMA, the filing said.  Janus entered a side arrangement with HanWay, which had
discussed a possible distribution agreement with Merchant Ivory,
the complaint alleged.  The closely held company asked the court to stop Janus
from reproducing the films or otherwise using the copyrighted
materials and seeks damages including all profit related to the
alleged infringement.  The case is Merchant Ivory Productions Ltd. v. Janus
Films LLC, 1:12-cv-06325, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York
at    csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 