-- Meredith Whitney’s Muni Prediction Gets No Boost From Fed
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-20T22:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/meredith-whitney-s-muni-prediction-gets-no-boost-from-fed.html
The municipal  bond market  has been
taking a few hits lately. To its reputation, at least.  The latest is an Aug. 15  study  from the  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York  asserting that municipal-bond defaults occur
more often than investors might realize. Thirty-six times more
often, to be exact.  Coming on top of high-profile bankruptcies and defaults --
in Jefferson County,  Alabama ; Stockton,  California ; and
elsewhere -- average investors could be forgiven for getting
antsy, and for perhaps wondering if banking analyst  Meredith Whitney ’s 2010 prediction of “hundreds of billions of dollars”
in municipal defaults might finally be upon us.  That is far from the case. Despite those bankruptcies, and
even though fewer muni bonds are now insured than before the
financial crisis, investor demand points to unshaken confidence:
The yield on top-rated 10-year  benchmark municipals  was 1.861
percent on Aug. 20, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
down 15 percent from a year ago. And as Bloomberg News recently
reported, investors are directing the  most cash  to tax-exempt
bonds since 2009.  Safe Investments  There’s good reason demand is so strong. State tax
collections are rising, suggesting a return to fiscal health and
an increased ability to service debt. Tax-exempt municipal
securities are still cheap, with a  10-year yield  at 102.82
percent of comparable Treasury debt, well above the 93.14
percent average over the past decade.  And those securities are a relatively safe investment. To
understand why that still holds, in spite of the Fed report,
consider the methodology used by the study’s authors. They argue
that although ratings companies show default rates of less than
1 percent, the actual rate may be much higher.  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) ,
for instance, identified 71 municipal defaults between 1970 and
2011. The Fed tallies 2,521 in that period.  To arrive at that figure, the Fed includes defaults on
unrated debt, which are far more numerous. There’s a reason such
defaults aren’t usually counted by ratings companies.
Municipalities that don’t seek ratings for their debt are almost
axiomatically less creditworthy than those that do. That’s why
the average investor is much less likely to be exposed to them.  Further, the most common type of defaults the Fed found
were for industrial-development bonds, which governments issue
on behalf of private companies -- and which usually aren’t
backed by taxpayers. Vast defaults on government debt, in other
words, aren’t somehow being covered up by ratings companies --
and Whitney’s default apocalypse is as improbable as ever.  The $3.7 trillion municipal-debt market is a critical
destination for American investors. It’s also a fundamentally
safe one. Regardless of scare stories in the news media, muni
investors have no reason to panic.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  circumcision policies  in the
U.S.;  Margaret Carlson  on  “legitimate rape” and Paul Ryan ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on how the  White House views new warnings from
Israel ; William Pesek on  Asia’s challenge in limiting smoking ;
 Ramesh Ponnuru  on  partisan rancor ; William Silber on  Paul
Volcker’s early fight  against inflation.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 