-- Tesla Model S Is ‘First-Rate Car,’ AutoNation Chief Says
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-08-21T20:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/tesla-model-s-is-first-rate-car-autonation-chief-says.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s Model S luxury
sedan is a “first-rate car” that will attract limited demand
because of its price, the chief executive officer of the largest
U.S. auto retailer said.  The Model S is “the best electric car I’ve driven yet,”
 AutoNation Inc. (AN)  Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson said in an
interview yesterday before a speech to the Rotary Club of
Atlanta. “The economics will still be the limiting factor. It’s
still very expensive, but it’s really a first-rate car.”  Tesla CEO Elon Musk is counting on demand for the Model S,
his company’s cheapest model to date, starting at $57,400, to
help the  Palo Alto , California-based automaker record its first
quarterly profit. Jackson, 63, test drove the sedan on Aug. 15
while visiting a showroom near the automaker’s headquarters.  Tesla is expanding production of the battery-powered Model
S at its Fremont, California, plant with a goal of delivering
5,000 this year and 20,000 in 2013. Musk, who is also chairman
of the company named for inventor  Nikola Tesla , expects the
electric-car maker to report its first profitable quarters next
year.  Tesla fell 1.4 percent to $29.11 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 1.9 percent this year. AutoNation, based
in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida , slid 0.2 percent to $39.67.  ‘Very Expensive’  The Model S “has very good design, fit and finish is good,
driving dynamics are good,” AutoNation’s Jackson said. The
$57,400 base version has 160 miles (257 kilometers) of range and
the price rises to as much as $105,400 for a “Signature”
edition with a  300-mile range , before a $7,500 federal tax
credit. The price of the technology will limit demand, Jackson
said.  “ Electric vehicles , all-in, when we’re sitting here three
years from now, are still less than 1 percent of the market,”
he said. “They’re very expensive.”  Tesla has modeled its network of stores after  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
outlets and is eschewing the traditional auto-industry model of
recruiting outside dealers to sell vehicles directly to
customers. That leaves “no way in” for AutoNation to get Tesla
dealerships, Jackson said.  Fisker Automotive Inc. has “a tougher way to go” than
Tesla, said Jackson, who also test drove that company’s luxury
plug-in hybrid Karma last week.  “Some people love the styling, some people think it’s a
bit baroque, but the driving dynamics are not as good” as the
Model S, he said.  Fisker Recall  Fisker said Aug. 18 that it plans to recall all its
$103,000 Karma sedans to fix a flawed cooling fan linked to a
California fire.  The closely held company, based in Anaheim, California, and
backed by U.S. government loans, last week named  Tony Posawatz ,
a former  General Motors Co. (GM)  engineer who led development of the
plug-in Chevrolet Volt sedan, as its new chief executive
officer. He replaced Tom LaSorda, a former president of the
predecessor of Chrysler Group LLC. LaSorda is remaining as an
adviser to the company.  AutoNation has no Fisker dealerships and has no interest in
acquiring any, Jackson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Atlanta at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  