-- Leu Drops Third Day Before Court Impeachment Meeting Tomorrow
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-08-20T14:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/leu-declines-third-day-before-court-impeachment-meeting-tomorrow.html
Romania ’s leu weakened for a third
day and a domestic debt auction gathered the lowest demand since
2005 before a court meets to debate the presidential impeachment
referendum tomorrow, which may prolong political turmoil.  The leu fell as much as 0.3 percent to 4.5015 per euro,
extending its loss this year to 3.8 percent, the worst among
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It depreciated
0.2 percent to 4.4969 per euro at 5 p.m. in Bucharest.  Romania’s Constitutional Court will meet tomorrow to debate
whether a July 29 vote to impeach suspended President Traian Basescu is valid. The power struggle between Basescu and Prime
Minister Victor Ponta in the past two months has pushed the
currency to record lows and boosted borrowing costs.  “Political instability in Romania continued to put
pressure on the leu, especially that tomorrow is the due date
for the  Constitutional Court  to issue its decision upon the
validity or invalidity of the referendum to recall President
Basescu,” Piraeus Bank Romania SA analysts led by Camil Apostol
wrote in a note to clients today.  The Bucharest-based  Finance Ministry  rejected all bids at
an auction today, for the second time this month, the country’s
central bank said. The administration had planned to sell 500
million lei ($137 million) in one-year treasury bills today, the
Bucharest-based bank said on its website. Demand totaled 864
million lei for the bills, it said.  The yields for Romania’s 2015 euro-denominated bonds
declined nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.95
percent, the lowest intraday level since the bonds started
trading in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  