-- Euro Advances to Six-Week High on Greece Crisis Optimism
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-21T21:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/euro-holds-gain-before-luxembourg-s-juncker-visits-greece.html
The euro rose to six-week highs
against the dollar and yen before regional leaders meet this
week to discuss  Greece ’s fiscal adjustment program amid optimism
the  European debt crisis  is being contained.  The 17-nation currency appreciated for a second day versus
the greenback after  Germany  indicated concessions for Greece
were possible and as Spanish borrowing costs declined at a bill
auction. The dollar weakened against most of its 16 major
counterparts before a report tomorrow forecast to show U.S. home
sales improved last month, reducing demand for safer assets.
Sweden’s krona gained as a central-bank official said economic
growth has been “unexpectedly” strong this quarter and the
currency has strengthened more than estimated.  “The euro continues to be buoyed by investors’ selectively
optimistic reading of official statements supporting bailout
packages and the periphery,” Noel Hebert, chief investment
officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth
Management LLC, which oversees about $250 million, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re still in this revolving door of
crisis cycle with nothing getting resolved.”  The euro rose 1 percent to $1.2473 at 5 p.m.  New York  time
after advancing to $1.2488, the strongest since July 5. The
single currency strengthened 0.9 percent to 98.89 yen after
touching 99.18 yen, the highest level since July 6. The dollar
declined 0.2 percent to 79.29 yen.  Krona, Aussie  Riksbank First Deputy Governor Kerstin af Jochnick said
Sweden’s strong growth needs to be weighed against “slightly
weaker” developments abroad. The central bank will announce its
next interest-rate decision Sept. 6 after leaving it unchanged
at 1.5 percent for a second consecutive meeting last month. It
has cut rates twice since December as  Europe ’s debt crisis
threatened an expansion in the largest Nordic economy.  The krona rose 0.3 percent to 6.6575 versus the dollar and
has added 4 percent this quarter, the most among the greenback’s
most-traded peers.  Australia ’s dollar rose the most in two weeks versus the
greenback after minutes of the central bank’s August meeting
showed policy makers see domestic growth overshadowing a
“fragile” global outlook. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia made
no mention of intervening to curb the currency’s strength. The
central bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3.5
percent for a second month.  The Aussie added 0.4 percent to $1.0487 after gaining as
much as 0.7 percent, the biggest intraday rise since Aug. 3.  The pound fell against the euro as Britain unexpectedly
posted a  budget deficit  in July and a report showed
manufacturing orders declined to an eight-month low in August,
adding to signs the U.K. economy is slowing.  Sterling weakened 0.5 percent to 79.01 pence against the
euro after depreciating to 79.08 pence, the weakest level since
Aug. 8. The pound gained 0.5 percent to $1.5787.  Fed Outlook  The dollar fell before data tomorrow may show sales of
 existing homes  in the U.S. increased to an annual rate of 4.51
million in July from 4.37 million in June, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists. Orders for  durable goods 
accelerated last month, a separate Bloomberg survey forecast
before the data on Aug. 24.  Along with stronger-than-forecast retail and jobs data
earlier this month, these reports may help reduce the likelihood
that Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Reserve  will start
a third round of debt purchases under quantitative easing. The
Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt from 2008
to 2011 in two previous rounds.  ‘Back Pocket’  “They’re keeping QE3 in their back pocket to play it
whenever they need to,” Kit Juckes, the head of foreign-
exchange research in  London  at Societe Generale SA, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen. “The option is do nothing or ease more.  Ben Bernanke  is
the most dovish central banker that has ever walked this Earth
and he’s ready to do anything it takes to make sure there’s a
sustained recovery.”  The Fed will release minutes tomorrow of its July 31-Aug. 1
policy session. It meets next Sept. 12-13.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six U.S. trading
partners, dropped 0.7 percent today to 81.885, after falling to
81.793, the lowest level since July 4.  Greek Visit  The euro gained as a senior lawmaker with German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s party said concessions are possible for Greece
so long as Prime Minister Antonis Samaras shows a willingness to
meet the main targets set out in his country’s bailout program.  Samaras travels to Berlin and Paris on Aug. 24 and 25 after
French President Francois Hollande and Merkel meet in the German
capital on Aug. 23. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude
Juncker , who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers,
visits Greece tomorrow and will discuss a request by Samaras for
a two-year extension to the indebted nation’s fiscal adjustment
program.  Spain  sold 4.5 billion euros ($5.6 billion) of 364- and
546-day bills. The average yield on the one-year securities was
3.07 percent, compared with 3.92 percent at a previous auction
on July 17. Investors bid for 1.91 times the number of
securities allotted, down from 2.23 times at the previous sale.  Even as reports during the weekend that the ECB may cap
 interest rates  “were dismissed as premature” by bank
officials, press coverage since suggests policy makers at their
Sept. 6 meeting will consider steps to contain borrowing costs
in peripheral countries, Royal Bank of  Scotland  said today in a
research note.  ‘Squeeze Higher’  Five year credit-default swaps tied to Spain fell to 465
basis points yesterday, the lowest since April, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
decline in the cost to protect against a Spanish sovereign
default and an increase in investor appetite for risk are
“supportive” of the euro’s rally against the dollar, RBS said.  “While the euro is likely to continue to squeeze higher
during the run-up to the early-September ECB meeting, those
gains are likely to be limited,” RBS said. “We remain oriented
to re-establishing short euro exposure, but from higher
levels.” A short is a bet that a security or currency will
decline in value.  Europe’s shared currency has advanced 0.7 percent over the
past month, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-market currencies. The dollar fell 2.1
percent and the yen declined 3.2 percent.  “The pure fundamentals of it are that the euro should be
selling off,” said Yra Harris, chief trader and analyst at
Praxis Trading in  Chicago . “If you’re printing all the money
you have to to get this bond-buying problem in place, that would
ultimately be bearish for the currency. You’re just getting a
short-cover rally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  