-- European Stocks Fall as Bundesbank Criticizes Bond Plan
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-08-20T16:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/european-stock-futures-rise-before-leaders-meet-on-crisis.html
European (SXXP)  stocks fell as Germany’s
Bundesbank criticized a European Central Bank plan to lower the
region’s sovereign yields through bond purchases, highlighting
the rift among policy makers over ways to end the debt crisis.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  slid 4.6 percent on reports it may raise $1
billion in a rights issue after operations at its biggest mine
were halted amid deadly violence, the Sunday Times reported.
 Bankia (BKIA)  SA fell 4.6 percent.  Heineken NV (HEIA)  climbed 1.6 percent
after it raised its offer for Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd.  Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  led gainers, jumping 5.1 percent.  The Stoxx 600 dropped 0.5 percent to 271.50 at the close of
trading. European stocks advanced to their highest level since
July 2011 last week, rallying for an 11th week, amid optimism
policy makers will take steps to protect the region’s banks and
as American consumer sentiment and leading economic indicators
beat forecasts.  “The last couple of days we had a pretty good upward move
so it’s quite normal that we got right now a little
consolidation,” Andreas Lipkow, an equity trader at MWB
Fairtrade Wertpapierhandelsbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in a
telephone interview. “Everybody is thinking about what the ECB
will exactly do and we’ve got very important political meetings
in the next couple of days, so its normal that some investors
are taking some profits.”  The ECB’s governing council may decide at its next meeting
in early September to set yield limits on the debt of each
country,  Der Spiegel  reported yesterday, without saying where it
got the information.  Bundesbank Criticises  Germany’s Bundesbank stepped up its criticism of the ECB’s
plan to embark on potentially “unlimited” government bond
purchases.  “The Bundesbank holds to the opinion that government bond
purchases by the eurosystem are to be seen critically and entail
significant stability risks,” the Frankfurt-based central bank
said in its monthly report. The new program “could be
unlimited” and decisions about potentially far greater sharing
of solvency risks should be taken by governments or parliaments,
not by central banks, it said.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also
heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, will discuss a
request by Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras for a two-year
extension to the indebted nation’s fiscal adjustment program
when he visits  Athens  on Aug. 22. Samaras travels to Berlin and
Paris on Aug. 24 and 25 after French President  Francois Hollande 
and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meet in the German capital
on Aug. 23.  Greek Announcements  “Later this week you’re going to have several
announcements for  Greece  and other European countries and I
would expect those announcements to provide fuel for the next
move in the European markets,” said Theodore Krintas, managing
director of Attica Wealth Management in Athens in a telephone
interview. “If Prime Minister Samaras gets something like a
conditional yes in the extension of the program I would expect
the markets to celebrate because it seems that the markets are
discounting the most probable outcome will be something like a
conditional no.”  Europe’s leaders are returning from vacation with agreement
still elusive on measures to support Greece and to prevent  Spain 
and Italy being shut out of sovereign debt markets. Spain urged
unlimited ECB support over the weekend after its 10-year bonds
last week advanced for the first time this month, as Merkel
signaled conditional support for the ECB’s plan to help reduce
indebted countries’ borrowing costs.  Schaeuble Comments  The sovereign-debt crisis mustn’t become a “bottomless
pit” for Germany, even though Europe’s biggest economy would
pay the highest price in a breakup of the euro region, German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on Aug. 18 during his
ministry’s open day in Berlin. “There are limits,” he said, as
he ruled out another aid program for Greece.  National benchmark indexes fell in 16 of the 18 western
European markets. U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index dropped 0.5 percent.
France’s CAC 40 Index lost 0.2 percent and Germany’s DAX Index
fell 0.1 percent. Greece’s ASE Index was the worst performer,
falling 2 percent.  Lonmin lost 4.6 percent to 610 pence, dropping for a sixth
day. The world’s third-biggest platinum miner may raise $1
billion in a rights issue as soon as next month after operations
at its biggest mine were halted amid deadly violence, the Sunday
Times reported, citing people close to the situation it didn’t
name.  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , which owns a 25 percent stake in Lonmin, has
signaled that it’s ready to cover its part of the deal, the
newspaper said. Xstrata fell 3.4 percent to 907.5 pence.
Separately, Deutsche Bank downgraded Lonmin shares to sell from
neutral.  ENRC Declines  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) , a producer of metals in
 Kazakhstan , fell 3.4 percent to 357 pence. The stock was cut to
neutral from outperform at Credit Suisse Group AG. A gauge of
commodity producers was the second-worst performer of the 19
industry groups on the Stoxx 600 Europe Index.  Bankia tumbled 4.6 percent to 1.40 euros, snapping four
days of gains.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  dropped 4.9 percent to 4.10
euros as a gauge of bank shares led declines on the Stoxx 600.  Michael Page International Plc (MPI) , a U.K. recruitment company,
lost 3.2 percent to 371.1 pence. The stock was cut to sell from
neutral at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Heineken gained 1.6 percent to 43.84 euros. The world’s
third-largest brewer raised its offer for a controlling stake in
Asia Pacific Breweries to S$5.6 billion ($4.5 billion) to
prevent a company linked to a Thai billionaire from disrupting
its takeover plans.  Monte Paschi  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena jumped 5.1 percent to 22.7
euro cents, paring gains of as much as 17 percent. The world’s
oldest bank may become the first Italian lender since the 1990s
to have the government as a shareholder as the company weighs
further goodwill writedowns.  Monte Paschi, which is borrowing 3.4 billion euros ($4.2
billion) by selling bonds to the state, must give shares to the
Italian Treasury in lieu of interest on the debt if it reports
an annual loss, according to a law approved this month.  The volume of shares traded on Italy’s FTSE MIB Index was
67 percent more than the average of the last 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , the owner of Argos stores, gained
3.6 percent to 96.3 pence. The shares were upgraded to hold from
sell at Deutsche Bank.  Amlin Plc (AML)  climbed 2.1 percent to 389.1 pence. The insurer
reported a first-half pre-tax profit of 184.5 million pounds
($289 million) compared with a 192.3 million pound loss in the
same period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  