-- Everton Hands Manchester Utd. First Opening-Game Loss in 8 Years
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-20T23:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/everton-defeats-manchester-united-1-0-in-premier-league-soccer.html
Marouane Fellaini scored the only
goal as Everton gave Robin  van Persie  a losing start to his
Manchester United soccer career.  Fellaini, who created problems throughout for United’s
defense at Goodison Park last night, beat makeshift center-back
Michael Carrick to a corner kick and put a downward header into
the net in the 57th minute.  Dutch striker Van Persie, signed from Arsenal last week for
a reported 22 million-pound ($34.5 million) fee, came off the
substitutes bench in the 68th minute as the record 19-time
champion began its Premier League campaign with a defeat for the
first time since it lost at Chelsea in 2004.  “They were without some central defenders, but I did think
Fellaini caused them problems,” Everton manager David Moyes
told  Sky Sports . “It’s not often you beat Manchester United, so
I’ll enjoy it.”  Belgian international Fellaini hit a post in the first half
and United goalkeeper David de Gea twice saved from Steven Pienaar as Everton pressured a visiting team missing injured
defenders Rio Ferdinand,  Phil Jones , Chris Smalling and  Jonny Evans . De Gea also pushed  Leon Osman ’s shot away and produced a
diving stop from Leighton Baines’s free kick.  Everton again went close to opening the scoring three
minutes after halftime. Fellaini headed Tony Hibbert’s cross
down into the path of Osman, whose volley crashed off the
underside of the crossbar and back into play.  Set-Piece Goal  Fellaini rose above Carrick to head his team into the lead
from Darron Gibson’s corner kick. Van Persie, who led the
Premier League with 30 goals last season, began warming up
almost immediately after the goal and came on seconds after  Phil Jagielka  preserved Everton’s advantage by intercepting Tom Cleverley’s shot on the goal line.  With 12 minutes left, Van Persie crossed to fellow new
signing Shinji Kagawa. The Japanese midfielder was thwarted by
Everton goalkeeper  Tim Howard  and the home team held on for the
victory.  It was only the fourth time in 21 Premier League seasons
that United failed to pick up any points from its opening game.  “Fellaini is a handful,” United manager  Alex Ferguson 
told MUTV. “He’s a big, tall, gangly lad and they just lumped
the ball towards him all the time. That’s all they did and they
worked it from that base. But he got the goal for them, so it’s
justified.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  