-- Ex-Credit Suisse Client, 83, Admits Hiding $5.7 Million
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-08-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/ex-credit-suisse-client-83-admits-hiding-5-7-million.html
An 83-year-old Massachusetts man who
held Swiss bank accounts at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Wegelin &
Co. pleaded guilty to hiding $5.7 million from U.S. tax
authorities.  Jacques Wajsfelner admitted in federal court in  Manhattan 
yesterday that he failed to file Foreign Bank and Financial
Accounts Reports. He will pay civil penalties of $2.84 million
and restitution of $419,940. Under advisory guidelines, he faces
30 months to 37 months in prison at sentencing on Dec. 20.  Since 2009, U.S. prosecutors have charged about 50 U.S.
taxpayers and more than 20 offshore bankers, lawyers and
advisers with tax crimes. Wajsfelner was born in  Germany  and
fled the Nazis as a teenager, according to Jeffrey Denner, his
attorney. He became a U.S. citizen and worked in real estate and
advertising in  New York  and  Boston , Denner said.  “He pleaded guilty to some very bad judgment that he
exercised,” Denner said in a telephone interview. “We are
hopeful at his sentencing that the very serious mitigating
factors of his life will be considered by the court.”  Wajsfelner’s former Swiss adviser, Beda Singenberger, was
indicted last year on a charge of conspiring to help more than
60 U.S. taxpayers hide $184 million from the  Internal Revenue
Service  in offshore accounts.  U.S. Taxpayers  Wegelin, the 270-year-old Swiss bank, was indicted Feb. 2
on charges of helping U.S. taxpayers hide more than $1.2 billion
from the IRS. Credit Suisse, the second-largest Swiss bank, said
in July 2011 it was a target of a U.S. criminal probe. On July
21 of that year, seven of its current and former bankers were
indicted on charges of helping U.S. clients evade taxes through
secret accounts.  “Over and over again, we see people who are privileged to
live in this country evading their legal obligation to pay their
fair share of taxes,” U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a
statement.  Wajsfelner admitted that he held an account in his own name
at Credit Suisse in 1995, and Singenberger helped him open one
there in 2006 in the name of Ample Lion Ltd. At the end of 2007
the account held almost $5.7 million, court records show.  After Credit Suisse began exiting its U.S. cross-border
banking business in 2008, Wajsfelner transferred his assets to
Wegelin, opening an undeclared account, he admitted. His account
was valued at almost $5.5 million at the end of 2010, and almost
$4 million at the end of 2010, court papers show.  He admitted failing to file FBARs for six years, from 2006
to 2011, court records show.  ‘Knowingly Failed’  “I knowingly and willfully failed to file FBARs with the
IRS which would have disclosed the existence” of the Wegelin
account, he told U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald. ‘I
knowingly failed to pay taxes to and on the funds in these
accounts.”  The judge, who released Wajsfelner on a $50,000
recognizance bond, ordered him to remain in the continental U.S.
and to surrender three weapons he said he owns -- a 12-gauge
shotgun, a snub-nose .38 revolver and a Smith & Wesson .38
magnum revolver.  Wajsfelner lives in Weston,  Massachusetts . His first wife
died after more than 49 years of marriage, Denner said. He has
remarried.  In Wajsfelner’s plea agreement, prosecutors said they
wouldn’t charge him for lies he told IRS agents after flying to
the U.S. from Germany on Sept. 15, 2011.  He falsely said he didn’t know Singenberger, he didn’t have
an account at Credit Suisse, he never heard of Ample Lion, and
he didn’t have a foreign bank account at the time of the
interview, according to the plea agreement.  “There are good explanations for it all,” Denner said.
“There was some level of miscommunication and
misunderstanding.”  The case is U.S. v. Jacques Wajsfelner, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 