-- Ex-Dresdner Banker, Wife to Pay $2.5 Million to U.K. FSA
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-08-20T10:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/ex-dresdner-banker-wife-to-pay-2-5-million-to-u-k-fsa.html
A former Dresdner Kleinwort banker
and his wife must pay 1.6 million pounds ($2.5 million) to the
U.K.’s finance regulator after they were found guilty of  insider
trading .  Christian Littlewood, who is serving a 40-month jail
sentence after he pleaded guilty last year to eight counts of
insider trading, and his wife, Angie, agreed with the Financial
Services Authority to forfeit the amount they profited. They owe
800,000 pounds each, including proceeds from the crimes and
legal costs, according to the settlement announced in a London
criminal court today.  Littlewood admitted to passing information on confidential
deals to his wife, who relayed it to an accomplice, Helmy Omar
Sa’aid, who traded securities using the information. Angie
Littlewood and Sa’aid invested about 5.5 million pounds over 10
years, the FSA said.  The FSA “took the view that the total benefit” by the
three defendants in the case is 2.3 million pounds, which they
planned to split three ways, Nicholas Dean, a lawyer for the
regulator, told Judge Anthony Leonard.  “Each of them, Christian and Angie Littlewood, have assets
that significantly exceed that figure,” Dean said.  The couple have six months in which to pay the FSA or face
three years in prison, Leonard ruled. Dean said they have
already begun selling some property and shouldn’t have a problem
meeting the deadline.  Suspended Sentence  Angie Littlewood received a suspended 12-month sentence and
isn’t serving a jail term. The judge ruled previously that she
wouldn’t have committed insider trading without her husband’s
involvement. Sa’aid was ordered to spend two years in jail.  Christian Littlewood’s sentence was the longest prison term
for the crime in an FSA prosecution at the time.  James Sanders ,
the founder of Blue Index Ltd., has since received a longer
term, being sentenced in June to four years in prison for
insider trading.  “The Littlewoods have not only received custodial
sentences and seen their reputations and future careers
destroyed, they have also paid a sum in confiscation
significantly greater than the profit from the indicted
trading,” Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s head of enforcement, said
in a statement today.  Littlewood worked for Dresdner until 2008 and later took a
job at investment bank  Shore Capital Group Plc . He had started
at Dresdner when he was 25 and later made as much as 400,000
pounds a year there.  The FSA and City of  London  police in March 2009 seized
hundreds of thousands of documents and trading records from 150
bank accounts tied to the Littlewoods and Sa’aid.  Sa’aid was found the following year in Mayotte, a French
island off the coast of  Africa , and was extradited back to the
U.K. to face the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  