-- Texas Notes Poised to Beat California Sale: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-08-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/texas-notes-poised-to-beat-california-sale-muni-credit.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  may chalk
up another win over  California  when his state sells $9.8 billion
of one-year notes tomorrow to help school districts pay bills
ahead of revenue collections.  To beat the Golden State, Texas will have to come close to
breaking its own record-low yield of 0.27 percent, obtained last
year. California borrowed at 0.33 percent on May maturities and
0.43 percent on debt coming due in June when it sold $10 billion
of revenue-anticipation notes last week.  The two issues have top short-term ratings from  Standard &
Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings. Yet Texas,
the second most-populous state behind California, has done more
to reduce spending as its  tax revenue  has increased, said
William Henderson, a managing director with  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   “They’ve taken a lot of steps to rein in costs,” said
Henderson, who oversees $12 billion in Princeton,  New Jersey .
“They’ve been careful and methodical in improving their
financial position.”  Perry, 62, a Republican who began a failed presidential
campaign a year ago, has asked state agencies to show how they
could cut spending 10 percent in the next budget after signing a
two-year spending plan last year that reduced school funding by
$5 billion. He also has opposed expanding the state’s Medicaid
program to include more low-income residents.  Annual Sales  Texas has sold short-term notes annually since 1987 to
deliver aid to school districts when its fiscal year begins
Sept. 1. The state then sets aside tax revenue to repay the debt
within 12 months. This year’s issue is scheduled to be repaid
Aug. 30, 2013, according Comptroller Susan Combs.  “We expect to be well-received by the financial community
with strong demand for our notes,” R.J. DeSilva, a Combs
spokesman, said by e-mail. Combs expects the state to benefit
from its strong financial performance, according to a statement.  Texas and California are benefiting from Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to keep the central bank’s key
lending rate near zero through at least 2014.  The Lone Star state borrowed at 8 basis points higher than
AAA rated,  one-year munis  last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. California’s September note sale obtained yields
about 19 basis points higher than comparable top-ranked debt. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Widening Spread  In California’s Aug. 16 sale, its yields were 17 basis
points to 27 basis points higher than the 0.16 percent on the
AAA, one-year benchmark, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales-tax receipts  rose  10 percent to $2.05 billion in July
over the same month in 2011, Combs said Aug. 8. That revenue
stream, which has increased for 28 consecutive months, provides
about half of general-fund revenue. She attributed the gain to
business spending in industries such as oil and gas.  Crude futures have averaged about $96 a barrel this year on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Texas, the biggest oil-
producing state in the U.S., taxes extraction of the fuel.  “These ratings reflect confidence in our state and its
economic growth,” Combs  said  Aug. 14. “People continue to view
Texas as an attractive and desirable place to live and do
business.”  California’s borrowing costs have declined as Governor
 Jerry Brown , a Democrat, has taken measures to curb borrowing
and reduce the state’s reliance on fiscal steps such as internal
loans and delaying payments owed to schools and local
governments.  Tax Proposals  Voters in California, the most indebted U.S. state, will
decide on two proposed tax increases in November to help Brown
balance the budget. The state ended its fiscal year with a $9.6
billion deficit, which it covered with internal borrowing and
accounting maneuvers.  Three California cities -- San Bernardino, Stockton and
Mammoth Lakes -- have sought bankruptcy court protection this
year amid rising pension liabilities and eroding property taxes.  Even though the Golden State got the highest ratings on its
notes, its long-term debt carries some of the lowest grades, at
A1, Moody’s fifth highest, and A-, S&P’s seventh best. Texas has
Moody’s top score of Aaa and S&P’s second-highest, at AA+.  Texas will sell its securities through competitive bidding.
Last year, JPMorgan Chase & Co. bought most of the notes, also
in a competitive sale. For California, JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo
& Co . were joint senior managers and Los Angeles-based bond firm
De La Rosa & Co. co-managed last week’s negotiated sale.  Lower Yield  California’s one-year notes  traded  at 0.43 percent Aug. 17,
or 25 basis points over similar top-rated debt, while Texas’s
had a yield of 0.29 percent, or 11 basis points higher.
California’s spread was wider a year earlier, at 36 basis points
more than the index, while Texas’s  was  10 basis points higher.  “Texas has traded at lower yields than California the last
several years and that should hold true this year as well,”
said Henderson.  The Texas deal will give money markets a respite from debt
backed by letters of credit, which let investors sell back
bonds, which has been more difficult to hold because of rating
cuts to the facilities, Henderson said.  Since a record year in 2008, issuance of variable-rate
demand notes  has declined  to $14.2 billion last year from $120
billion, according to data compiled by the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board. The market has shrunk because of low fixed
rates and weaker bank credit, Moody’s said in an Aug. 16 report.  The number of states issuing short-term cash-flow notes is
expected to decline in the next year as revenue improves,
Moody’s said in a July 31 report. It said the amount raised is
expected to increase, however, as California and  Texas  dominate
issuance.  “Texas remains one of the best credits out there,”
Henderson said. “It’s a bellwether indicator of where market
levels are.”  Following are pending sales:  BAY AREA TOLL AUTHORITY in Oakland, California, is set to
issue $150 million of revenue debt as soon as next week to
refinance debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Moody’s rates
the debt fourth-highest at Aa3. (Added Aug. 17)  HOUSTON, TEXAS, plans to sell $140 million of combined
utility system revenue bonds as soon as next week, Bloomberg
data show. Proceeds will help finance repairs and extensions as
well as refund debt, according to bond documents. S&P rates the
deal AA, its third-highest grade. (Added Aug. 17)  PIERCE COUNTY, WASHINGTON, is set to issue $183.4 million
of sewer revenue bonds through competitive bid as soon as Aug.
22, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will help finance capital
projects, according to bond documents. S&P rates the bonds AA,
and Moody’s grades it Aa3. (Added Aug. 17)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  