-- Facebook Investors Brace for More Shares Coming to Market
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-08-20T20:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/facebook-investors-brace-for-more-shares-coming-to-market.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  shares, which fell to
a record low after insiders could sell stakes for the first time
since the initial public offering, will face more pressure when
another 1.44 billion shares are freed up through November.  Facebook last week unlocked 271.1 million shares, the first
of five insider sale restrictions scheduled during its first
year as a public company.  While Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg 
operates the world’s largest social-networking service, he’s
facing investor concerns about how it can generate more revenue
from its growing user base. That, plus the end of the first
lock-up, drove the shares to  half the offering price  of $38,
wiping out almost $46 billion in market value.  “Is this something impatient or nervous investors should
be worried about?” said  Herman Leung , analyst at Susquehanna
International Group. “Yes, but for the long-term investors, I
view this as an opportunity to potentially get a stock at a
pretty good price.”  Regulatory filings as soon as this week will disclose how
many major shareholders sold their stock. Insiders are seen
selling about 55 percent of the 1.2 billion shares that are set
to come unlocked on Nov. 14, according to an Aug. 9 research
note by  Brian Wieser  at Pivotal Research in New York.  Hedge funds  that are using so-called short sales to benefit
from the stock’s decline may be active ahead of mid-November,
said  Jay Ritter , professor of finance at the University of
 Florida . These investors will probably sell shares with the aim
of buying them back at a discount at a later date, he said.  ‘Selling Pressure’  “There will be selling pressure before the Nov. 14 lockup
expires,” said Ritter, based in Gainesville, Florida.  Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for  Menlo Park , California-
based Facebook, declined to comment.  The shares rose 5 percent to $20.01 at the close in New
York, after earlier slumping to an intraday record of $18.75.
The trading volume was more than twice the average since the
IPO, at 100.6 million shares. On Aug. 17, 129.3 million shares
traded hands, and the volume was 157.6 million a day earlier
when the lock-up expired.  By May the number of shares on the market will increase by
1.91 billion, compared with 421.2 million shares at the IPO.  Facebook’s first earnings report as a public company last
month also fueled concerns over how quickly it can draw revenue
from mobile devices.  Second-quarter revenue  grew 32 percent from
a year earlier, down from 45 percent in the first quarter.  Facebook’s mobile advertising services are a key concern
for investors as more users turn to tablets and smartphones. The
company should benefit in the coming months from new tools and
services that help companies market their wares to users on the
go, said  Scott Kessler , an analyst at S&P Capital IQ.  Real Questions  “The fundamentals are better than people think,” said
Kessler. Two days before the lock-up ended, he had upgraded the
shares to buy and said that while there are real questions about
the company, annual revenue growth should be at least 25 percent
for the next three years.  Early Facebook investors such as DST Global Ltd.,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Elevation Partners and  Accel Partners  could
start selling part of their holdings last week, Facebook has
said in  filings .  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , based in Redmond,  Washington ,
was likely to hang on to its stake after the lock-up ban lifts,
a person with knowledge of the matter said on Aug. 10. Microsoft
views Facebook as a strategic partner against  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
rather than as a near-term moneymaker, said the person, who
requested anonymity because the plans are private.  Wild Card  Other investors have been preparing for potential sales.
Director  Peter Thiel , who sold in the IPO, gave himself more
flexibility to unload holdings, according to a regulatory
filing. One of Facebook’s earliest investors, Thiel converted
more than 9 million shares to Class A from Class B. Class A
shares are easier to sell on the public markets.  The shares freed up last week represent 14 percent of the
1.91 billion that will become available for sale in the coming
nine months. The next expiration date comes between Oct. 15 and
Nov. 13, when restraints are removed on about 243 million
shares. Lock-up expires on about 1.2 billion shares on Nov. 14,
and for 149.4 million shares a month later. A final round comes
May 18, 2013, with 47.3 million shares becoming available.  The stock being sold Nov. 14 would include shares from
current and former employees, as well individuals who bought
stock from them, Pivotal Research’s Wieser said in his note.  “This date becomes the greatest wild card,” he wrote.
“As the base of shareholders eligible to sell will be much more
fragmented, orderly outcomes become much more uncertain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  