-- Firm Revenues, Wilson Sonsini, Goodwin Procter: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-08-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/firm-revenues-wilson-sonsini-goodwin-procter-business-of-law.html
Although law firm revenues increased
slightly in the first half of 2012, the growth in expenses
outpaced the revenue increase during the same period. That’s the
takeaway of the recent quarterly survey of the law firm group of
the Citi  Private Bank  of  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Gretta Rusanow, the senior client adviser in the Citigroup
business, said in a telephone interview on Aug. 17 that while
revenues increased 2.7 percent compared with the first six
months of 2011, compensation expenses increased about 2 percent
and operating expenses, such as rent, infrastructure upgrades,
and insurance, went up 5.5 percent.  Additionally, the growth in headcount also exceeded the 0.3
percent growth in demand for attorneys’ services, according to
the survey of 176 law firms.  Rusanow said that transactional work is slower than
litigation. While in the past the pace of litigation can offset
a slow deal market, she said corporate clients are pressuring
their law firms to discount the bills for litigation.  As a result, Rusanow said, “It doesn’t matter what end of
the market you’re sitting in, demand is down. And no one is
immune.”  Layoffs haven’t occurred she said. Instead, firms have cut
compensation costs by not awarding spring bonuses to their
associates like last year.  Unless the market picks up, Rusanow said that “there will
be a struggle to achieve even the low single digit profit growth
we predicted at the start of the year. We’re concerned.”  Dewey Committee of Ex-Partners Wants Examiner for Defunct Firm  Although appointing a trustee to take over Dewey & LeBoeuf
LLP is “premature,” an examiner should be appointed for the
defunct  law firm , the official committee representing former
partners said in a court filing Aug. 16.  In the filing, the committee was critical of a settlement
proposal the firm is offering to former partners which would
give those partners releases from claims and lawsuits in return
for payments in varying amounts. The Wall Street Journal
reported last week that the settlement is at least $50 million.  The official committee argues that the firm “simply lacks
fiduciary credentials to decide how much each partner should be
permitted to pay” because it’s “managed solely by individuals
who remain partners and who were actively engaged in many of the
debtor’s most controversial pre-petition actions.”  The committee criticized the firm for offering discounts in
return for collecting unpaid bills, “further rewarding those
with the largest practices for doing only that which they are
already obligated to do.”  The filing is especially critical of the firm’s demand for
payments from lawyers who retired years before bankruptcy. The
committee says that the demand for subsidies from retirees
“cries out, at a minimum, for vetting by an entirely
disinterested fiduciary.”  An ad hoc group of 54 former partners filed papers on Aug.
8 telling the bankruptcy judge in Manhattan that the firm should
be taken over by a Chapter 11 trustee or an examiner appointed
to conduct an investigation into management’s “blatant
conflicts of interest.”  In a large case such as Dewey’s, the bankruptcy judge is
required to appoint an examiner if a motion for a trustee is
denied. A judge retains the ability to decide the scope and cost
of an examiner’s report.  A call for comment to the firm’s lawyers wasn’t returned.
There is a separate official committee representing creditors.  Dewey, which once had 1,300 lawyers, began liquidation
under Chapter 11 in May. There was secured debt of about $225
million and accounts receivable of $217.4 million at the outset
of bankruptcy, the firm said. The petition listed assets of $193
million and liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Lawyer Sues News Corp. for Hacking in 2007 Prosecutor Affair  News Corp. (NWSA)  and the former private investigator who hacked
phones for the News of the World tabloid were sued in Britain by
a criminal-defense lawyer who newspapers said in 2007 had an
affair with the country’s chief prosecutor.  The lawsuit by  Kirsty Brimelow , of Doughty Street Chambers
in London, was filed against News Corp.’s U.K. unit, which
published the now-defunct title, and  Glenn Mulcaire , 41, in the
 High Court  on Aug. 13, according to court records.  Brimelow had an affair with Ken Macdonald, who at the time
led the U.K. Crown Prosecution Service, the Telegraph and other
titles  reported  in February 2007. The alleged relationship made
headlines about a month after Macdonald’s agency secured prison
terms for Mulcaire and the News of the World’s Royal Family
reporter  Clive Goodman . While the men pleaded guilty to phone
hacking, the case failed to uncover the extent of the scandal.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the News of the
World in July 2011 after revelations it intercepted the voice
mail of murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler  in 2002, when she was
still missing. The company is cooperating with police after
admitting some of its journalists targeted celebrities,
politicians, crime victims and people close to them until 2006.  U.K. tabloids published photographs of the two lawyers
dining together and stationed reporters outside their homes in
February 2007 to get reactions from them and Macdonald’s wife,
according to news articles at the time. Neither Brimelow nor
Macdonald commented on the reports of the affair.  Mulcaire’s lawyer,  Sarah Webb , declined to comment.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News International, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  Brimelow didn’t return calls or e-mails over three days
seeking comment. The details of her claims weren’t immediately
available.  Macdonald, who was director of public prosecutions at CPS
from 2003 to 2008, declined to comment.  The case is Brimelow QC v. Newsgroup Newspapers,
HC12A03219, High Court of Justice Chancery Division.  For more, click here.  Capital Markets  Wilson Sonsini, Goodwin Procter on Trulia IPO  Trulia Inc., an Internet startup focused on residential
real estate, filed to raise $75 million in an initial public
offering, aiming to capitalize on an improving U.S. housing
market. The company plans to list its shares on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol TRLA.  David Segre and Rezwan Pavri, partners in the Palo
Alto office of  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati  represent the
company. Richard Kline and Anthony McCusker, partners in the
Menlo Park, California, office of Goodwin Procter LLP represent
the underwriters, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG,
along with RBC  Capital Markets  LLC, Needham & Co. and William
Blair & Co. Trulia’s general counsel Scott Darling is also
listed in the regulatory filing made on Friday.  The filing was made under the streamlined regulations for
smaller companies enacted as part of the Jumpstart Our Business
Startups Act, known as the JOBS Act.  The law accelerates the registration process of firms with
less than $1 billion of annual revenue and gives companies the
ability to “crowd-fund” by selling its stock online, among
other provisions.  Segre said that the impact of the new law on the filing of
a registration statement for an IPO was minimal.  “There are allowances for less disclosure under the JOBS
Act related to a number of items like executive compensation and
the financial statements but” companies aren’t taking advantage
of the provisions because the markets expect fuller disclosure.  He said in an e-mail that the primary benefit derives from
the confidentiality provisions of the law, which allow small
companies with less than $1 billion in revenues to receive
comments from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission before
the filings become public as Trulia’s did on Friday.  Trulia is a rival to  Zillow Inc. (Z) , which  raised  $69.2
million in its IPO in July 2011 and has seen its shares jump 79
percent since its market debut. The number of new-home building
permits grew in the U.S. last month, indicating that the
industry will keep improving in the second half of the year.  Trulia’s search engine is used by more than 20 million
people a month to look for homes in specific neighborhoods. The
company offers reviews on local schools and crime rates. The
company makes money through ads on the site and subscriptions
that let real estate agents target users and get their listings
featured prominently.  Law Firm Mergers  K&L Gates, Middletons in Talks About Possible Combination  K&L Gates LLP and Australian national law firm Middletons
are in discussions regarding a possible combination, according
to a statement by K&L Gates. If approved, the combination would
create a firm of more than 2,000 lawyers in 45 offices
throughout Australia, North and South America, Europe,  Asia , and
the  Middle East .  According to the statement, discussions between the two
firms have been under way for several months with formal
proposals expected to be presented to both partnerships later in
2012. K&L Gates spokesman Jeffrey Berardi said in an e-mail that
K&L Gates has about 1,800 lawyers and Middletons has about 300
lawyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 