-- FMC Technologies to Buy Pure Energy for $285 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-08-20T16:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/fmc-technologies-to-buy-pure-energy-for-285-million.html
(Corrects description of Pure Energy in fourth paragraph.)  FMC Technologies Inc. (FTI) , the largest
U.S. provider of subsea equipment to the oil and natural-gas
industry, agreed to buy  Pure Energy Services Ltd. (PSV)  for about
C$282 million ($285 million) to expand its services to companies
performing hydraulic fracturing.  The C$11-a-share offer represents a 40 percent premium to
Pure’s  closing price  on Aug. 17, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The transaction is expected to close in October,
according to a statement from Houston-based FMC today.  Pure Energy, based in Calgary, provides drilling assistance
to companies that use fracking to extract oil and gas from shale
and other dense formations. FMC wants to expand its “shale-
related businesses” and add to services provided by its surface
technologies segment, the company’s Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer John Gremp said in the statement.  FMC’s acquisition of a “land-focused company” is likely
to cause investors and analysts to “question the rationale for
the move,”  Brian Uhlmer , a Houston-based analyst at Global
Hunter Securities LLC, wrote today in a note to investors. “We
are taking a cautious stance,” he wrote. He rates the shares
neutral, the equivalent to hold, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The global fracking-services market climbed 63 percent to
$31 billion last year compared to 12 months earlier, according
to a January report from industry consultant Spears &
Associates. The U.S. and  Canada  are the world’s largest region
for the work, with $27 billion in revenue last year, according
to the report.  Pure Energy rose 31 percent to C$10.25 at 8:15 a.m. in
Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  