-- Foiled Lebanon Bomb Plot Raises Concern of Spread From Syria
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-08-20T07:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/foiled-lebanon-bomb-plot-raises-concern-of-spread-from-syria-1-.html
The bomb plot had all the hallmarks
of a spy thriller: a former Lebanese politician gets caught with
explosives by an informant using a camera-equipped pen and
triggers a dawn raid by police.  The arrest of Michel Samaha, an ally of Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad, on Aug. 9 has resonated across the  Middle East 
because it highlighted how the insurrection in Syria can spill
over into neighboring states with a history of sectarian
violence. Assad wants to galvanize opposition to the  Sunni
Muslims  trying to depose him by stirring up tension in the
region, said  Paul Salem , director of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace’s Middle East Center in Beirut.  “This goes in line with the Syrian regime’s approach to
try to convince the international community that they should be
afraid of the rise of radical Sunnis,” Salem said by telephone.
“The Syrians might also be signaling that instability and
sectarian conflict can easily be exported to Lebanon.”  Supporters and opponents of Assad have clashed in the
capital Beirut and the northern Lebanese city of Tripoli. Gulf
states said last week their citizens should leave Lebanon
because of the threat of kidnappings following a spate of tit-
for-tat abductions linked to the conflict in Syria.  The  U.S. Embassy in Lebanon  warned on Aug. 17 of “an
increased possibility of attacks,” including kidnappings and
the potential for an upsurge in violence.  Clan Abductions  At least 20 Syrians were taken by the Meqdad clan that
belongs to Lebanon’s Shiite Muslim community after a member of
the extended family was kidnapped in  Syria . The clan threatened
to capture nationals of  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, states that have
supported the Syrian opposition.  The kidnappings and the Gulf warnings add to the tensions
that have hurt economic growth in Lebanon. Tourism has fallen
each month versus a year earlier from March 2011 to the end of
the first quarter of this year, with total arrivals down 16
percent, and visitors from  Asia  slumping 60 percent, according
to HSBC Holdings Plc. Tourism made up about 20 percent of
economic output in 2010.  While Beirut hotel occupancy grew about 32 percent in the
first six months of 2012, occupancy at summer resorts outside
the capital plunged more than 50 percent in the same period,
according to Pierre Achkar, president of Lebanon’s Syndicate of
Hotel Owners since 1995. The fall comes as the country’s $39
billion economy is forecast to grow 2.4 percent this year, HSBC
said in a July 3 report. That compares with a 7 percent
expansion in 2010, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  ‘Horrific’ Plot  Christians, Shiites and Sunni Muslims each make up roughly
a third of the population in Lebanon and the country fought its
own civil war from 1975 to 1990. Assad, a member of the Alawites
affiliated to Shiite Islam, has portrayed the unrest as a
conflict with gangs of armed Sunni radicals with al-Qaeda
sympathies intolerant of minorities such as Christians.  Lebanese President Michel Sleiman called the bomb plot
“horrific,” aimed at destabilizing his country. Sleiman said
he saw the explosives and they were “scary,” according to an
interview with several local papers published Aug. 18, including
Annahar and Assafir. He said he hoped the plot was the work of
individuals and not the official Syrian establishment.  Samaha’s lawyer, Malek al-Sayyed, said in a telephone
interview on Aug. 17 that his client is entitled to the
“presumption of innocence, the right of defense and secrecy of
the investigation.”  Weakening Government  The nature of the terror plot suggests Syria is getting
increasingly desperate, according to Dan Darling, an analyst at
defense-research firm Forecast International.  “The sloppy and amateurish manner in which it was carried
out is emblematic of an embattled regime,” Darling said by
telephone from Newtown,  Connecticut . “It’s a reflection of a
weakening of the Syrian regime.”  The timing of the attacks was to coincide with a four-day
visit to the Sunni Muslim northern region of Akkar by Maronite
Patriarch Beshara Rai that began on Aug. 13, the Daily Star
newspaper cited unidentified security sources as saying. An
assault on a senior Christian figure would have had “complex”
consequences, Salem said.  Judge Sami Sader, the government’s deputy commissioner at
the Military Tribunal in Beirut, charged Samaha and two
officers, including a top security chief, with plotting to
assassinate religious and political figures, the government’s
official National News Agency reported.  ‘Stirs Amazement’  The bombs were prepared by the two Syrians and Sader
referred the case to military judge Riad Abu Ghida, who is
questioning Samaha, the  news agency  said on Aug. 11. Samaha was
arrested in connection with “preparations for bombing attempts
in several Lebanese areas” and a “large number of bombs” were
found, the agency reported.  Al-Sayyed, the lawyer, said the leaks raise questions about
the work of the security officials and harm the investigation.
“He was judged before he spoke,” he said.  The plot has stunned the Lebanese because of the
involvement of Samaha, who served as information minister in the
early 90s and again in 2003. The Annahar daily declared in a
front-page headline on Aug. 10 that “the detention of the
prominent symbol of Assad stirs amazement.”  Legion d’Honneur  The 64-year-old is known more as a politician who has used
his speaking skills rather than any military to defend the
Syrian government. He is a holder of  France ’s Legion d’Honneur,
a Canadian citizen and a friend of Assad, 46, according to the
pro-Syria Assafir newspaper.  The recruitment of Samaha and his capture are indications
of weaker Syrian security forces following the death of Major
General Assef Shawkat, Assad’s brother-in-law and deputy defense
minister, said Hassan Mneimmneh, senior fellow at the
Washington-based  German Marshall Fund of the United States , a
research organization. Shawkat and three top military chiefs
died in a bomb in Damascus last month.  There’s an “ongoing, slow collapse of the Syrian security
system,” said Mneimmneh. “Assef Shawkat was part of the inner
circle. Those promoted to replace him and those who died with
him were members of the support structure. Those are the kinds
of losses you cannot recover from.”  Largely Silent  The pro-Syria camp in Lebanon, including the militant
Iranian-backed Hezbollah group, has been largely silent about
the indictments. Ibrahim al-Moussawi, head of Hezbollah’s media
relations office, said by phone the party has not issued any
official statement regarding Samaha. He did not elaborate.  It would be costly for Hezbollah, which has always tried to
show itself as a pan-Arab rather than a Shiite group, to be
involved in a sectarian conflict, said Sami Nader, professor of
international relations at  Beirut ’s St. Joseph University.  “The Syrians want to play the sectarian bomb,” said
Nader. “Knowing that the price will be high and it will lose
its Arab dimension and turn into a Shiite boutique, could
Hezbollah afford the current strategy of Assad which is playing
the sectarian card?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  