-- Fox’s Reilly Named Entertainment Chairman by News Corp
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-20T19:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/fox-s-reilly-named-entertainment-chairman-by-news-corp.html
Kevin Reilly , the entertainment
programming chief at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Broadcasting, has been
named chairman of entertainment of the television network unit.  Reilly will oversee scheduling, marketing, research,
digital and business affairs, Los Angeles-based Fox said today
in a statement. He reports to Peter Rice, chairman and chief
executive officer of  Fox Networks  Group.  Reilly fills a position held by Rice, who was elevated last
month to oversee News Corp.’s U.S. broadcast and cable networks
business. Fox has drawn the most viewers aged 18 to 49, a group
targeted by advertisers in prime time, for eight straight
seasons. Under Reilly, who has held the post of president of
entertainment at Fox Broadcasting since 2007, the network added
“Glee,” “New Girl” and “The X Factor.”  Reilly has “strong strategic vision and creative
instincts,” Rice said in the statement. “We are incredibly
fortunate to have him here and thrilled he will be with us for
many more years.”  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and CEO  Rupert Murdoch ,
fell 0.8 percent to $23.08 at 3:13 p.m. in  New York  trading. The
 stock  had climbed 30 percent this year before today.  Reilly’s promotion follows News Corp.’s announcement last
week that Fox Networks’ President and Chief Operating Officer
David Haslingden will step down at the end of the year to return
to his native Australia to spend more time with his family.  ‘Huge Opportunities’  Fox Broadcasting, under Reilly, is creating a block of
animation that will appear online and during a late-night TV
segment, according to the statement. The programs are in
production, the network said today.  “This is a transformative time in our industry - one that
presents huge opportunities,” Reilly said in the statement.  Prior to joining Fox in 2007, Reilly was president of
entertainment at NBC, when the network was owned by  General
Electric Co.. (GE)   At NBC, Reilly scheduled shows including “The Office,”
“Heroes” and “The Biggest Loser,” according to the
statement. Reilly joined NBC from News Corp.’s FX cable channel,
where he added “The Shield” and “Nip/Tuck” as programming
chief, Fox said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  