-- Garcia Wins Delayed Wyndham Championship, First Title Since 2008
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-08-20T16:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/garcia-wins-delayed-wyndham-championship-first-title-since-2008.html
Sergio Garcia  had four birdies in
his final six holes during the rain-delayed final round of the
Wyndham Championship to capture his first U.S. PGA Tour title in
more than four years.  It was the first U.S. PGA Tour title for Garcia, 32, since
the Spaniard won the 2008  Players Championship .  Tim Clark  was second at 16-under par at Sedgefield Country
Club in Greensboro,  North Carolina , followed by Bud Cauley at
15-under par. Chad Campbell, Jimmy Walker and Carl Pettersson
all tied for fourth, one stroke behind Cauley.  Final round play resumed this morning with Garcia holding a
one-shot lead. There were 38 players on the course yesterday
when the round was suspended, including 15 golfers who were
within four shots of the lead.  Garcia used a local caddie for the tournament after ending
his working relationship with long-time caddie Glen Murray in
May. At the Wyndham Championship he employed David Faircloth, a
part-time caddie who had worked during the event’s Pro-Am
competition.  This is the final PGA Tour event before the start of the
FedEx Cup Playoffs, which begin Aug. 23 with the Barclays
tournament at Bethpage State Park’s Black Course in Farmingdale,
 New York . The top 125 golfers in the FedEx Cup point standings
qualify for the first playoff event.  Garcia is now ranked 33rd in FedEx Cup standings, according
to the PGA Tour website. The playoffs, which were formed in
2007, offer $35 million in total bonus money to golfers based on
their finish in the season-long competition, including $10
million to the FedEx Cup winner.  Tiger Woods  was leading the
standings heading into the Wyndham Championship.  -- Editor: Michael Sillup  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  