-- Spanish Bond Yields Fall to 7-Week Low on ECB Intervention Bets
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-20T15:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/german-bunds-decline-after-spiegel-report-on-ecb-yield-limits.html
Spanish bonds gained, pushing 10-
year  yields  to the lowest in seven weeks, on optimism the
 European Central Bank  is moving toward a crisis-fighting plan
that will limit borrowing costs for indebted nations.  German bunds fell for the first time in three days after
Spiegel magazine reported yesterday the ECB would be prepared to
buy government debt to enforce a cap on yields, without saying
where it got the information. Spanish and Italian bonds pared
gains after the German Bundesbank stepped up its opposition to
the ECB’s plan to embark on government debt purchases.  “The markets are looking at any kind of news like the
Spiegel report to push peripheral spreads tighter,” said
 Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-markets debt at ING Bank NV
in Amsterdam, referring to the difference between benchmark
German yields and those of nations such as  Spain  and  Italy . “It
is highly unlikely they will put a level out there for the
market to target.”  Spain’s  10-year yield  fell 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 6.29 percent at 4:17 p.m.  London  time,
after dropping to 6.16 percent, the lowest since July 2. The
5.85 percent bond due in January 2022 rose 1.035, or 10.35 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,233) face amount, to 96.89.  The Spanish two-year yield declined 18 basis points to 3.59
percent after slipping to 3.36 percent, the least since May 8.  The two-year rate has fallen from a euro-era high of 7.15
percent set on July 25 amid speculation policy makers will
increase efforts to rein in borrowing costs. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said Aug. 2 the central bank may buy debt together with
the region’s bailout funds to address rates that are elevated on
“fears of the reversibility of the euro.”  Unlimited Size  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos urged the ECB to
deploy unlimited bond buying in the secondary market, according
to an interview with Spanish news agency Efe on Aug. 18. The ECB
said today the Governing Council hasn’t discussed any plan to
target the bond yields of euro region members.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of their German equivalents narrowed 16 basis
points to 478 basis points. The spread expanded to as much as
650 basis points on July 25.  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield was little changed at 1.50
percent after rising as high as 1.58 percent. The two-year yield
climbed two basis points to minus 0.025 percent. A reading below
zero means investors who hold the debt to maturity will receive
less than they paid to buy it.  ‘Very Powerful’  Luxembourg’s Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also
heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, will discuss a
request by  Greece ’s Prime Minister Antonis Samaras for a two-
year extension to the indebted nation’s fiscal adjustment
program when he visits  Athens  on Aug. 22. Samaras will travel to
Berlin and Paris on Aug. 24 and 25 after French President
 Francois Hollande  and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meet in
Berlin on Aug. 23.  The idea of a yield or spread cap “is a very powerful one
that is likely to dominate markets in an otherwise data-deprived
session,”  Peter Schaffrik , head of European interest-rate
strategy at  Royal Bank of Canada  in London, wrote today in a
note to clients. A yield limit “reduces the angst of nearly
unlimited losses that drove investors out of peripheral markets
and should create a powerful incentive to either remain invested
or even return,” he said.  ‘Stability Risks’  Spanish and Italian bonds trimmed their advance after the
Bundesbank said increased government bond purchases would
“entail significant stability risks.”  “Government bond purchases by the Eurosystem are to be
seen critically,” the central bank said in its monthly report.
The new program “could be unlimited” and decisions about
potentially far greater sharing of solvency risks should be
taken by governments, not by central banks, it said.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield dropped one basis point to 5.78
percent after declining to 5.70 percent, the lowest level since
July 4.  Spain’s government bonds handed investors a loss of 2.7
percent this year through Aug. 17, according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Germany’s debt gained 3 percent, and Italy’s
securities climbed 10 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  