-- Glencore’s Profit to Fall as $30 Billion Xstrata Deal Vote Looms
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-08-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/glencore-s-profit-to-fall-as-30-billion-xstrata-deal-vote-looms.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
Swiss commodities trader seeking to buy  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  for $30
billion, is set to report a slide in first-half profit today as
investors prepare to vote on this year’s biggest takeover.  Net income  excluding exceptional items will fall 36 percent
to $1.6 billion, according to the average  estimate  of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company is due to release
results at 7 a.m.  London  time.  Glencore joins Xstrata and  Rio Tinto  Group in posting lower
earnings as mining companies face the dual headwinds of rising
costs and lower prices. Its planned takeover of Xstrata, set for
an investor vote on Sept. 7, has a 60 percent chance of being
rejected, UBS AG said yesterday. Glencore Chief Executive
Officer Ivan Glasenberg has rebuffed calls to raise the bid.  “Glencore so far has appeared adamant that current terms
are generous and it has other growth options,” Myles Allsop, an
analyst at UBS in London, wrote in a note. “Xstrata also
appeared defensive at its first-half results, reiterating its
standalone investment case.”  The companies have agreed on the exchange of 2.8 Glencore
shares for each of Xstrata’s, an offer criticized by  Qatar 
Holding LLC, Xstrata’s second-biggest investor, as too low.  Glencore gained 0.5 percent to close at 353.75 pence in
London trading yesterday. Xstrata declined 3.4 percent to 907.5
pence, resulting in a ratio of 2.57 Glencore shares for each in
Xstrata, and a discount of 8.4 percent to the offer. That’s the
widest since it was announced on Feb. 7, signaling a heightened
risk of the bid failing, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading, Mining  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, owns mines, plants and warehouses, and ships raw
materials including coal, oil, wheat and nickel. The Baar,
Switzerland-based company generates income from an industrial
production unit, its trading operation and a 34 percent holding
in Xstrata, the biggest exporter of power-station coal.  This month, Xstrata reported a 33 percent  decline  in first-
half profit to $1.94 billion after metals and coal prices fell,
while Rio Tinto said net income dropped 22 percent. The Thompson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials averaged 13 percent
lower in the period than a year earlier as waning economic
growth in  China  sapped demand.  The “golden years” of Chinese economic growth are gone,
Roberto Castello Branco, director of  investor relations  at Vale
SA, said Aug. 14. Vale is the world’s second-biggest mining
company. Xstrata Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis  said Aug. 7
the company’s first-half result reflected a “cyclical
downturn” in commodity prices.  Qatar’s Holding  The risk of Glencore’s takeover failing has increased as
Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund continues to raise its holding in
Xstrata. The fund now owns almost 12 percent and spent about $5
billion building its stake from about 3 percent in February.
Qatar pressed for improved bid terms on June 26, saying an offer
of 3.25 shares would be “more appropriate.”  Other  shareholders  including Knight Vinke Asset Management
LLC and Standard Life Plc have also called for a sweetened
offer. The transaction, which would create the world’s fourth-
biggest mining company, can be blocked by just 16.48 percent of
Xstrata holders under U.K. takeover rules because Glencore can’t
vote its stake.  “Xstrata shareholders need to keep Glencore merger-bump
expectations in check,”  Jeff Largey , an analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd., wrote in an Aug. 17 report. “Our analysis reveals a
meaningfully accretive deal for Xstrata shareholders, even at
2.8 times, and therefore dampens the bull-case argument for a
large merger sweetener.”  Revised Bid  Any increase in the offer probably wouldn’t exceed 2.9 to 3
Glencore shares, Largey said. Jefferies Group Inc. analysts
Christopher Lafemina and Seth Rosenfeld said Aug. 1 that
Glencore may announce a 3-share bid when it releases earnings.  Should the deal fail to complete, Xstrata can still
generate “significant value,” CEO Davis said on an Aug. 7 call
with analysts.  “The inherent capacity of Xstrata to generate value as a
standalone company remains very, very powerful indeed,” even if
the business model of the combined entity is “more powerful,”
he said.  In backing Qatar’s push for a higher offer, New York-based
investor  Knight Vinke  said Xstrata assets including the
Antapaccay copper mine in  Peru , the Koniambo nickel project in
 New Caledonia  and the Collahuasi copper expansion in  Chile  are
“not yet reflected in the valuation of the company.”  “They’ve just done quite a lot of investing in new
production going forward,” Jane Coffey, head of equities at
Royal London Asset Management, said in an Aug. 17 Bloomberg
Television interview. “It was that production that’s coming on
in two-to-three years’ time that is the foundation behind our
belief that Glencore should pay more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  