-- Google Ordered Anew to Disclose Commentators in Oracle Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-08-20T22:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/google-failed-to-comply-with-order-on-commentators-judge-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  was ordered for a second
time to disclose which commentators receiving company money
wrote about a copyright case against it after Google told a
judge it may be impossible to name all those who fall into that
category.  Google’s first response, in which it said it didn’t
directly pay anyone to write about  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s lawsuit over
Android software, failed to comply with an Aug. 7 order
requiring it and Oracle to disclose payments to commentators,
bloggers and authors, U.S. District Judge William Alsup said in
a court filing today. Alsup presided over a trial in the case in
federal court in  San Francisco .  Google told Alsup Aug. 17 that people affiliated with
nonprofits, universities and trade groups receiving Google money
may have commented on the case and it believed Alsup’s
disclosure order didn’t apply to those individuals. Alsup said
commentators paid as consultants, contractors, vendors or
employees should be disclosed.  “The Aug. 7 order was not limited to authors ‘paid to
report or comment’ or to ‘quid pro quo’ situations,” the judge
wrote. “Rather, the order was designed to bring to light
authors whose statements about the issues in the case might have
been influenced by the receipt of money from Google or Oracle.”  “Public commentary that purports to be independent may
have an influence on the courts and/or their staff if only in
subtle ways,” Alsup said. “If a treatise author or blogger is
paid by a litigant, should not that relationship be known?”  Jury Verdict  A jury found May 7 that  Mountain View , California-based
Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
infringed Oracle’s copyrights when it developed Android software
for mobile devices yet deadlocked on whether the copying was
“fair use.”  That denied Oracle the ability to seek as much as
$1 billion in damages from the search engine company. The jury
found May 23 that Google didn’t infringe two Oracle patents.  Google said in court filings Aug. 17 that it didn’t pay
people to write about the lawsuit, although nonprofit
organizations, universities and trade groups receiving money
from the company have commented on the case.  The company said it may be impossible to name all the
people who wrote about the case and asked if Alsup wanted a more
comprehensive list.  Disclosure Exceptions  Commentators receiving Google advertising revenue and those
with universities receiving Google money don’t need to be
disclosed, Alsup said.  “We’ll comply with the order,” Jim Prosser, a spokesman
for the Mountain View, California-based company, said in an e-
mail. Alsup gave the company until Aug. 24 to file a list.  Oracle has hired one writer, Florian Mueller, author of the
FOSS Patents blog, as a consultant, not to blog about the
lawsuit, Oracle said in an Aug. 17 filing. Mueller, who
disclosed the relationship in April, has written extensively on
the lawsuit.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 