-- Groupon Venture Backers Battery, Andreessen Horowitz Sell Stakes
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-08-20T20:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/groupon-venture-backers-battery-andreessen-horowitz-sell-stakes.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  backers  Battery
Ventures  and Andreessen Horowitz have divested their stakes in
the daily-deal website, joining a group of early investors who
have sold the stock and added pressure to slumping shares.  Battery sold all of its 15.99 million shares earlier this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Andreessen
Horowitz sold its 5.1 million shares in June, said a person with
knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be named because the
sale wasn’t publicly disclosed.  Groupon is one of several Internet stocks, including
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , to come under pressure with the lifting of lock-
up periods, which bar insiders from selling shortly after
initial public offerings. Investors are also shunning these
consumer-Web companies amid concern that they can’t withstand
competition and keep luring business at a fast enough pace.  “These are the people that were the initial backers that
probably know more about the details behind Groupon’s results
than the general public,” said Larry Chiagouris, a professor of
marketing at Pace University’s Lubin School of Business in  New
York . “The fact that they have chosen to move their positions
out of the company tells you that they obviously believe there’s
likely to be more downside.”  Grace Ellis, a spokeswoman for  Menlo Park , California-based
Andreessen Horowitz, declined to comment on the firm’s holdings.
Karen Bommart, a spokeswoman for Menlo Park-based Battery
Ventures, declined to comment.  Paul Taaffe , a spokesman for
Chicago-based Groupon, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Trimming Stakes  The Chicago-based company makes money by selling discounts
-- known as Groupons -- from businesses such as restaurants and
nail salons. It then splits the revenue with the retailers.
Groupon earlier this month reported second-quarter revenue that
missed estimates due to economic weakness in  Europe .  Other pre-IPO investors who have sold Groupon include
Fidelity Management & Research, which trimmed its stake by 6.2
million shares to 13.2 million in the quarter ended in June,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Maverick Capital
reduced its holdings by 4.35 million shares to 1.98 million over
that period, the data show. Kinnevik Investment AB said in June
that it divested its direct holding in Groupon of 8.4 million
shares.  One of Groupon’s largest investors, T Rowe Price Associates
Inc., added 21.4 million shares to its stake, for a total of
75.1 million, according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , one of the lead underwriters for Groupon’s IPO, added
8.19 million shares, for a total of 15.7 million, the data show.  Early Investors  Battery Ventures, which had previously reported a stake in
Groupon in March, didn’t hold any shares of Groupon as of the
quarter ending June 30, according to a 13F filing. Battery was
one of Groupon’s earliest investors in 2010, when it joined
Digital Sky Technologies in a round of funding that valued the
company at $1.3 billion. Andreessen Horowitz invested in early
2011, when Groupon raised $950 million from a group of
investors.  Groupon  shares  fell 2.1 percent to $4.65 at the close in
New York, widening the plunge since the IPO to 77 percent.  The Wall Street Journal earlier reported that Andreessen
Horowitz sold its Groupon stake.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  -- With assistance from Ari Levy in  San Francisco . Editors: Reed 
Stevenson, Niamh Ring  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  