-- Michael J. Fox Returns to Television in NBC Comedy Series
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/michael-j-fox-returns-to-tv-for-comedy-series-at-comcast-s-nbc.html
Michael J. Fox, star of the 1980s
NBC series “Family Ties” who downsized his career while
battling  Parkinson’s disease , will return to the network in a
new comedy set for next year.  NBC, controlled by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , ordered 22 episodes of
the unnamed show from  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s TV studio, the New York-based
network said yesterday in an e-mailed  statement .  Fox, 51, is returning to a starring role after stepping
back from films and TV to run a foundation he formed to combat
Parkison’s. The actor was diagnosed with the illness in 1991 and
made it public in 1998. Fox brings a well-known name to NBC,
which is rebuilding its prime-time programming.  “We are thrilled that one of the great comedic television
stars is coming home again,”  Bob Greenblatt , chairman of NBC
Entertainment, said in the statement. “Being in business with
him is a supreme pleasure.”  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, fell 0.4 percent to $33.90
yesterday in New York. The  stock  has gained 43 percent this year
to lead the S&P 500 Media Index.  The show will be based loosely on Fox’s real life,
following a husband and father of three from New York dealing
with family, career and challenges, including Parkinson’s, NBC
said in the announcement. The single-camera series will begin
shooting this year, with episodes scheduled to air around
September 2013, NBC said.  The executive producers and co-creators are Will Gluck,
whose credits include the films “Easy A” and “Friends with
Benefits,” and Sam Laybourne, known for the TV comedies
“Cougar Town” and “Arrested Development,” NBC said. Gluck
will direct the pilot episode.  Emmy Nominations  Fox garnered Emmy nominations in July for guest roles on
“Curb Your Enthusiasm,” which airs on  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO,
and “The Good Wife,” on  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s TV network. The Emmy
Awards will be telecast on Sept. 23.  The Canadian-born actor gained fame in 1982 for his role as
Alex Keaton on “Family Ties,” winning three Emmys and a Golden
Globe award. The show ran for seven seasons, according to the
Internet Movie Database.  Film roles followed, including “Teen Wolf,” “Back to the
Future,” “Bright Lights, Big City” and “Casualties of War.”  In 1996, Fox starred in the ABC comedy “Spin City” as the
deputy mayor of New York. He left the role in 2000 to focus on
the Michael J. Fox Foundation, which is dedicated to raising
awareness of Parkinson’s disease and finding a cure.  In the years since, Fox appeared in guest roles in TV shows
including “Scrubs” and “Boston Legal” on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
ABC and “Rescue Me” on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s FX cable channel.  Fox has also written three  New York Times (NYT)  best-sellers,
including “Lucky Man: A Memoir” and “Always Looking Up: The
Adventures of an Incurable Optimist,” according to NBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  