-- Intel’s Trade Agency Patent Case Cited for U.S. Jobs Risk
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   K a y l a   B r u u n
-- 2012-08-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/intel-s-trade-agency-patent-case-cited-for-u-s-jobs-risk.html
The Phoenix suburb of Chandler,
 Arizona , is counting on 300 new high-tech jobs and paychecks for
1,000 construction workers from an expansion of  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s
facilities there.  Republican Senator  John McCain  and other Arizona members of
Congress say those jobs may be threatened by a patent-
infringement case at the U.S. International Trade Commission.
The patent owner, closely held  X2Y Attenuators LLC , claims some
Intel microprocessors use its technology and wants the agency to
block imports of products that contain them, including some
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  computers.  The potential impact on U.S. jobs has drawn the case into a
broader dispute about whether patent owners that don’t make
products themselves should be able to use the ITC’s power to ban
imports as a cudgel in fights over licensing fees. Intel does
initial manufacturing for the chips in the U.S. and sends them
abroad for final assembly and use by computer makers.  “Given the strained economic climate specifically in
Arizona as well as coast to coast, it is easy to see how an
exclusion order that discourages U.S. manufacturing could do
more harm than good with respect to public interest,” the
Arizona lawmakers wrote in an Aug. 9 letter to the commission.
The congressional delegations from  Oregon  and New Mexico, where
the world’s largest semiconductor maker also has facilities,
sent similar letters.  ITC Judge  David Shaw  is set to begin hearing testimony in
the case tomorrow in Washington. He is scheduled to release his
findings, which can be reviewed by the commission, in December.
The agency has set a target date of April 15 for completing all
proceedings.  Protecting Markets  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency charged with protecting
U.S. markets from unfair trade practices, including patent
infringement. Since 2006, when a U.S. Supreme Court ruling made
it harder for patent owners to win federal district court orders
blocking sales of infringing products, companies that license
the use of their inventions have increasingly turned to the
ITC’s power over imports to pressure recalcitrant infringers to
pay royalties.  “X2Y approached Intel over a decade ago and explained how
X2Y’s technology would improve Intel’s products if Intel wished
to take a license,” the Erie, Pennsylvania-based company said
in a statement on its website. “Intel did not take a license,
but appears to have adopted X2Y’s technology anyway.”  Blocking Imports  X2Y, which develops methods for improving the performance
of circuits, owns patents on ways to overcome electromagnetic
interference that can damage electronics. It’s licensed
technology to companies including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the
world’s biggest maker of computer-memory chips.  A loss for Intel could prevent the chipmaker from bringing
its microprocessors, including the Core i7 chip, back into the
U.S. and limit imports of Apple and Hewlett-Packard computers
that run on them.  Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for Intel, said the
company wouldn’t comment on the case before trial.  Intel is among companies, including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and
Ford Motor Co., that have been lobbying Congress to make it
harder for companies that don’t make products to file complaints
with the ITC.  “In recent years the forum has strayed beyond its purpose
and has come to be abused, targeting Americans manufacturers,
threatening their U.S. operations, and trying to force them into
cash settlements that would not be awarded by a court,” David
Kelley, intellectual property counsel for Ford, said in remarks
prepared for a July 18 House Judiciary subcommittee hearing.  ‘Significant’ Activities  Ford and other automakers were targeted in a case brought
by a Swiss patent owner over navigation systems that were made
overseas. The company withdrew the ITC complaint and is pursuing
its case instead in a federal district court, where it can sue
for cash compensation that’s not available in ITC cases.  Colleen Chien, a professor at  Santa Clara  University in
Santa Clara,  California , told the subcommittee that one-quarter
of the cases filed at the agency are by companies that don’t
make products, and the complaints are directed at U.S. companies
more often than foreign companies.  The ITC has tightened its standards, requiring patent
owners to have “significant licensing activities,” weeding out
complaints from some with no real business operations. It has
started seeking input earlier in a case about whether agency
action would be in the public interest.  “The people who are complaining really think that only
operating companies should be able to assert patents,” said
Paul Michel, who was chief judge of the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Federal Circuit, the court specializing in  patent law ,
before his 2010 retirement.  Limit Jurisdiction  “There’s a risk Congress will limit ITC jurisdiction or
remedies or both,” said Michel, who would oppose such a change.
“Congress is highly responsive to major companies and the
bigger or wealthier or more connected they are politically, the
more attentive” lawmakers are.  Intel, based in Santa Clara, makes semiconductors at plants
in Chandler; Hillsboro, Oregon; and Rio Rancho,  New Mexico . It
ships them overseas to be cut into chips which are encased in
plastic and have connections attached so they can be inserted
into electronic devices.  X2Y has also filed a civil lawsuit in federal court that’s
been put on hold until the ITC case is completed.  While X2Y’s ITC complaint centers on Intel’s activities at
test and assembly plants in Costa Rica,  Malaysia , the
 Philippines  and China, congressional letters are focusing on
jobs for American workers.  High-Wage Jobs  Intel plans a $300 million research and development
facility in Chandler. With two plants already operating there,
Intel is the city’s largest employer, with 11,000 workers.  “We’re very excited,” said Terri Kimble, president of the
Chandler Chamber of Commerce, “It’s going to be great. It’s
going to create hundreds of local jobs as well as over a
thousand construction jobs.”  In Hillsboro, the company plans a multibillion-dollar
facility that would employ 6,000 construction workers while it’s
being built and add 1,000 high-wage jobs when it’s completed,
according to the letter signed by Oregon’s delegation, including
Senator  Ron Wyden , a Democrat.  While the letters focus on manufacturing and construction
jobs, companies that license patents -- sometimes called non-
practicing entities, or NPEs -- also have employees and “are
still putting some people’s kids through college,” said Rodney Sweetland, a patent lawyer at Duane Morris in Washington.  Congress, seeking to help universities and biotech
companies protect their research, changed the law in 1988 to
make clear that patent licensing can be the basis for an ITC
complaint.  Public Interest  Still, congressional hearings and pressure from lawmakers
may have an impact on the outcome of the Intel case and other
disputes involving non-practicing entities, Sweetland said.  “The commission has to consider the public interest, and
congressional sentiment can embody the public interest,” he
said. “NPE’s do employ a lot of people through licensing -- not
on the same scale as some of the larger practicing entities.”  X2Y said Intel can avoid any possible disruption to its
business plans by taking a license, removing the X2Y inventions
from its chips “or by moving all of its operations into the
 United States .”  The case is In the Matter of Microprocessors, 337-781, U.S.
International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net :
Kayla Bruun in Washington at 
 kbruun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  