-- Ireland Said to Plan for Sale of Amortizing Bonds Within a Week
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-08-20T17:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/ireland-said-to-plan-for-sale-of-amortizing-bonds-within-a-week.html
Ireland’s National Treasury
Management Agency plans to sell so-called amortizing bonds for
the first time within a week, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  The agency, based in Dublin, will issue less than 1 billion
euros ($1.23 billion) of the securities, said the person, who
declined to be named because a final decision hasn’t been taken.
The sale will probably take place through a so-called  tap
mechanism , the person said. A spokesman for the agency declined
to comment.  The NTMA said in a statement on its website today it will
issue the debt, “subject to market conditions, in the near
future,” after getting inquiries from investors. When issuing
by tap, the agency will announce the bond to be sold and the
size of the issue an hour before it’s offered, according to
documentation published by the Dublin-based NTMA. It will then
announce the price when the tap opens.  Irish pension funds may buy as much as 10 billion euros of
sovereign annuity bonds within three years, according to Zurich
Life Assurance Plc, the first insurer cleared by regulators to
offer such products as the nation returns to debt markets.  A sovereign annuity is a contract where an insurance
company pays a pensioner an annual income linked directly to the
yields of bonds issued by a state. The sale of Irish annuity
bonds has been facilitated by changes to the law last year. In
the past, if the government that issued the bonds defaulted, the
pension company would have to make the full payment. Under the
new arrangement, part of the loss will passed on to the
pensioner.  Irish debt is rated BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, seven levels below  Germany ’s AAA grade. The rate on
Ireland’s 2020 bond fell three basis points to 6.03 percent
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  