-- Israeli Army Eases Housing Crisis With Vacated Bases: Mortgages
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-08-21T14:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/israeli-army-eases-housing-crisis-with-vacated-bases-mortgages.html
Israel ’s army, with bases spread
over 39 percent of the country, plans to vacate properties for
development into residences needed to ease a housing shortage.  About 80 percent of Israel’s land is either directly
under the military’s control or subject to its restrictions,
more than any other country. The  Israel Land Administration ,
which will oversee the transfer of the land for development,
estimates 35,000 homes will be built on the army land within
five years.  “Freeing up the land is an excellent idea,” said Dorit
Shabtai, a 39-year-old computer programmer who’s been trying to
purchase a home in the greater  Tel Aviv  area, the country’s
economic capital. “Buying somewhere isn’t realistic at the
moment, so I’m sure this will help people like me.”  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  is trying to slow
home-price growth by restricting some types of mortgage lending.
After succeeding in the second half of last year, prices began
to rise again in the first half of 2012. The shortage of housing
in Tel Aviv continues to push up prices. The average apartment
value in the city rose 6 percent to 1.94 million shekels
($480,000) in the three months through June, the Central Bureau
of Statistics said in an Aug. 16 report.  It’s not unprecedented for the army, officially known as
the Israel Defense Forces, to vacate real estate for private
development. Three apartment buildings are under construction on
a site in Tel Aviv that was part of the Kirya, the military
complex where Israel’s Mossad intelligence agency plotted to
kidnap Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann. When they’re completed,
the Sarona towers will overlook a 10-acre (4-hectare) leisure
complex and the Army headquarters with its rooftop helicopter
pad.  Netanyahu Reforms  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has made reforms in the
housing market a keystone of his government’s economic program,
especially opening up to private development more of the 93
percent of Israel’s territory that is under some form of
government control.  Fischer, who’s cut the benchmark  interest rate  twice in
2012 to stimulate growth, is also trying to make home purchases
less risky for borrowers and the banking system. Last year
variable-rate mortgages were restricted to one-third of the
value of the total loan. Still, a record 4.9 billion shekels in
housing loans were approved in July, according to Israel’s
Central Bureau of Statistics.  “The lack of housing in the country’s center is definitely
helping to push this program forward,” said reserves Brigadier
General Hezi Meshita, who’s in charge of a project to relocate
more than a dozen bases in the country’s most densely populated
areas to the southern Negev desert over six years.  Property Prices  “Tens of thousands of new housing units in an area of
demand will certainly constitute a significant contribution to a
decline in property prices,” Housing Minister Ariel Atias said
in an e-mailed statement.  Residential property prices in Israel have risen about 21
percent since the start of 2010, according to the  central bureau
of statistics . That compares with the  consumer price index ’s 6.6
percent increase.  Housing costs were a key factor in spurring protests last
year in which tens of thousands of demonstrators erected tent
encampments in the center of Tel Aviv and other Israeli cities.  Uri Ariel, chairman of the parliament’s State Control
Committee and National Union Knesset representative, wants the
army to go further. “The amount of land it controls affects our
entire cost of living,” he said by phone. “Much more land
needs to be opened up.”  Ariel said he plans to hold a
parliamentary hearing on the issue.  ‘Too Slow’  The  State Comptroller ’s office published a report last year
that was critical of the military’s land management policy. Army
bases occupy about 2.8 million acres and a similar amount is
restricted for such military uses as firing ranges and training
areas, according to the report.  While much of the latter territory is in the Negev, many of
the bases, including dozens no longer in use, are located in the
central coastal range where most Israelis live. The
comptroller’s report said the defense establishment has been
moving too slowly to relocate its bases, and in some cases has
failed to carry out proper environmental clean-ups. “Findings
indicate that for years the supervision and control of civilian
bodies on land management in the  Israel Defense Forces  were lax
and fundamentally flawed,” the comptroller said.  Soldiers Transferred  A  Defense Ministry  official, speaking anonymously because
he was not authorized to give his name, said the report failed
to take into account the bureaucratic hurdles the army faces in
relocating its facilities. He said that the military can’t start
relocating its bases until it has built new ones, and it took
years to obtain necessary funding for the new Negev facilities
now under construction.  More than 30,000 soldiers will be transferred to the new
southern bases and about 25 billion shekels will be invested in
developing infrastructure in Israel’s south. The army estimates
that the project will end up adding about 6 billion shekels to
the country’s gross domestic product each year.  At the Sarona project, where development started prior to
the current plan, a three-bedroom apartment in the towers built
by  Gindi Holdings Group  is on  sale  for 3.15 million shekels. The
only reminder of the property’s military past will be an  antenna
tower  once used by  Mossad  to broadcast secret communications for
missions such as the 1960 kidnapping of Eichmann from  Argentina 
to Israel, where he was convicted of  war crimes  and executed two
years later.  Security Concerns  Some of the military real estate to be opened up to private
development is on other prime sites in the greater metropolitan
Tel Aviv area. This includes bases in the neighboring city of
 Ramat Gan , one of the country’s leading business districts, and
the base housing Army Intelligence headquarters at the Glilot
junction next to the city of Herzliya.  The land occupied by the Glilot intelligence complex is
worth an estimated 20 billion shekels, according to a Defense
Ministry study. Relocating it will also spur more development in
the surrounding areas, Meshita said. Because of security
concerns, severe building height restrictions were placed on
properties adjacent to top-secret intelligence facilities, he
said.  The plan to develop former army bases drew praise from
Nissim Bublil, President of the Association of Contractors and
Builders in Israel.  “The transfer of army bases can assist over the long term
in the availability of land,” Bublil said in an e-mailed
statement. “In order for the plan to succeed, the Israeli
government also has to improve transportation access to outlying
areas and remove bureaucratic barriers in order to enable rapid
development and construction at the evacuated areas in central
Israel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 