-- Most Japanese Stocks Decline on China Easing Concern
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2012-08-20T06:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/japan-stocks-advance-for-third-day-on-u-s-data-ecb-plan.html
Most Japanese  stocks  declined amid
signs rising  home prices  in  China  may prompt the government to
refrain from easing policy. Declines were limited after the yen
fell as  consumer confidence  in the U.S. topped estimates.  TDK Corp., a manufacturer of electronic parts which gets
more than 25 percent of its revenue from China, fell 0.6 percent.
Funai Electric Co., an audio-visual equipment company that
relies on  North America  for half its sales, climbed 4.3 percent.
 Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  paced declines in its sector after the
construction-machinery maker’s equity rating was cut by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  “The rise in home prices will benefit the wealthy but it
may make it harder for the government and central bank to take
stimulus measures,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and
strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. in  Tokyo .  The  Topix (TPX)  Index fell 0.2 percent to 764.66 as of the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo, with about three shares dropping for every two
that gained. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 0.1 percent to
9,171.16. Volume on the gauge was almost 25 percent below the
30-day average, ahead of European leaders’ talks this week to
help defuse the region’s debt crisis.  Shares fell after China’s July housing data showed price
gains for new homes, prompting speculation the government will
hold off easing policy. Prices climbed from a month earlier in
49 cities out of the 70 the government tracks, the National
Bureau of Statistics said on its website on Aug. 18. Policy
makers cut rates in June and July after two reductions in banks’
reserve-requirement ratios this year as the economy expanded at
the slowest pace since 2009.  TDK (6762)  slid 0.6 percent to 3,550 yen. Seiko Holdings Corp., a
manufacturer of watches and clocks that gets almost a fifth of
its revenue from China, sank 1.2 percent to 244 yen.  U.S. Confidence  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge rose 0.2 percent on Aug. 17 after
 confidence  among U.S. consumers unexpectedly improved in August,
boosting prospects for household spending this quarter,
according to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading economic
indicators, a gauge of the outlook for the next three to six
months, climbed more than forecast in July.  “The U.S. economy’s rebound from the April-June period is
fueling market confidence and is correcting the dollar’s slide
against the yen,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , Tokyo-based chief
strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co., which manages the
equivalent of $23 billion. “Currency is making the biggest
impact on the Japanese market. Shares are so sensitive to
currency movements that even a fall of one or two yen against
the dollar has a big impact on corporate earnings.”  Funai Electric  Funai Electric jumped 4.3 percent to 1,107 yen. Kasai Kogyo
Co., a car-interior equipment maker that gets more than 35
percent of its sales from North America, gained 1 percent to 399
yen.  Declines in stocks were limited after the yen depreciated
to as low as 79.66 against the dollar today in Tokyo, compared
with 79.37 at the close of  stock trading  on Aug. 17, boosting
overseas income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  The Topix has fallen 12 percent from this year’s peak on
March 27 on concern earnings would be hurt by Europe’s debt
crisis and as growth slows in China and the U.S. The decline has
cut the price of shares on the gauge to 0.9 times book value,
compared with 2.2 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.4
for the Europe Stoxx 600 Index. A number less than one means
companies can be bought for less than the value of their assets.  In Europe, leaders plan a week of intensive shuttle
diplomacy to help defuse the continent’s debt crisis, amid
dissension on the  European Central Bank ’s role and how to help
Greece.  Europe Meetings  With the single currency’s continuing crisis threatening
the global economy,  Jean-Claude Juncker , the Luxembourg premier
who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, is expected
in  Athens  on Aug. 22 to discuss Greek Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras’ request of a two-year extension for the country’s
fiscal adjustment program.  Don Quijote , a discount retailer, soared 4.9 percent to
2,875 yen after saying it expects a 4 percent rise in operating
profit to 30.5 billion yen ($383 million) in the year ending
June 30, citing its private brand expansions.  Komatsu fell 1.3 percent to 1,767 yen after the stock’s
investment rating was cut to neutral by Merrill Lynch, citing
slowing growth in global construction machinery demand and
concern about falling resource prices. Hitachi Construction
Machinery Co. lost 1.8 percent to 1,483 yen after its equity
rating was lowered to underperform by the investment bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  