-- JetBlue Fined for Tarmac-Rule Violation on JFK Flight
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2012-08-20T20:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/jetblue-fined-for-tarmac-rule-violation-on-jfk-flight.html
JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  was fined
$90,000 by the U.S. Transportation Department for failing to
tell passengers during a 2 1/2-hour delay they could get off the
plane as allowed under a 2010 federal rule.  Passengers at  New York ’s John F. Kennedy International
Airport weren’t told they could leave the plane as it sat at the
gate with the door open on March 3, awaiting departure to  San
Francisco , the department said in an e-mailed statement.  The fine was the second ever issued by the department in
connection with an April 2010 rule, expanded in 2011, that fines
carriers that don’t give passengers the option of getting off
planes stuck on tarmacs.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s Eagle unit was fined
$900,000 in November 2011 for Chicago O’Hare tarmac delays over
the U.S. Memorial Day holiday weekend that year.  Part of the rule states that if passengers have an
opportunity to leave a stalled flight, such as when the plane is
at the gate and the door is open, they must be advised 30
minutes after the scheduled departure time and every 30 minutes
afterward.  An investigation found JetBlue’s contingency plan for long
delays didn’t contain assurances passengers would receive
notifications on the status of the delay, even though that is
required, according to the department’s statement.  “We’re cooperating” with the department, JetBlue Chief
Executive Officer David Barger said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television.  “This is such a nuance, though,” Barger said. Passengers
could have left any time with the door open, even though no
announcements were being made, he said. “I’m sure there are
some lessons learned.”  Stranded Passengers  The underlying rule fines carriers as much as $27,500 per
passenger when they fail to give customers a chance to get off
planes stalled on tarmacs for at least three hours on domestic
flights or four hours on international trips.  The rule was written after passengers were stranded on
planes for hours, sometimes without access to food or working
restrooms, in widely publicized incidents, including one in
which 47 people were stuck on a 50-seat ExpressJet Holdings Inc.
aircraft for 5 1/2 hours in Rochester,  Minnesota , in August
2009.  Separately today, the Transportation Department fined
ticket agent Orbitz $50,000 for failing to “clearly and
prominently” tell consumers they may have to pay baggage fees
on top of ticket prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  