-- JPMorgan Doubles Offering to Sell $1.1 Billion of Preferreds
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-08-20T21:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/jpmorgan-doubles-offering-to-sell-1-1-billion-of-preferreds.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. lender by assets, sold $1.1 billion of perpetual preferred
shares, more than double what it had planned, after selling $2.5
billion of bonds earlier this month.  The bank issued $25 shares, callable after five years, to
yield 5.5 percent, Bloomberg data show. The offering was earlier
marketed at $500 million, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  “We have seen financials hit the market more aggressively
recently,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at
Susquehanna International Group LLP, said in a telephone
interview. “It has been a particularly active market as of late
for preferreds.”  JPMorgan last issued benchmark dollar-denominated debt on
Aug. 13, selling 2 percent, five-year bonds to yield 135 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The debt traded at 99.68 cents on the
dollar to yield 2.07 percent on Aug. 17, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Banks are selling preferred shares in part to get ready for
changes in capital regulations linked to the Basel III
international banking requirements, Pinto said. There has been
$7.5 billion in $25 per share preferred issuance over the past
six weeks, according to Pinto.  Basel III  The Basel III guidelines, which will be phased in from 2013
to 2019, call on regulators to boost  capital requirements  for
banks, limit what instruments count toward capital and force
banks to rely more on equity than debt funding.  “Rates are extremely low so it’s a very attractive market
for them to issue in,” Pinto said. “Investors are looking for
yield, and it’s very hard to find these days, so a number of
people are going to the preferred market.”  Wells Fargo & Co (WFC)  sold $750 million of preferred shares at
5.2 percent on Aug. 9, Bloomberg data show.  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  issued $875 million of preferreds at 6 percent
on Aug. 13.  JPMorgan’s new shares may be rated Ba1, the highest level
of speculative grade, by Moody’s Investors Service, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t
set. Proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes. New
York-based JPMorgan handled the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 