-- Kloppers Buys Time for BHP Revival as Profit Forecast Drops
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-08-21T01:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/kloppers-buys-time-for-bhp-revival-as-earnings-forecast-drops.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Chief Executive
Officer  Marius Kloppers , under investor scrutiny following the
failure of three deals, bought himself some time by waiving his
bonus after lopping $2.84 billion off the value of BHP’s shale
gas assets. The question is, how much?  The world’s biggest mining company is forecast to report a
38 percent drop in earnings to $14.6 billion in the year ended
June 30, according to the average of 18 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That will include writedowns on shale and
at the nickel unit, which Kloppers announced earlier this month
along with his decision to forgo his bonus.  The charges mark another test for Kloppers after deals
totaling about $200 billion were aborted or rejected in the past
four years, including hostile bids for Rio Tinto Group and
 Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan Inc.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s
biggest asset manager and biggest  holder  of BHP’s Sydney-traded
stock, said in March it had trimmed its holdings, citing the
shale deals as a concern.  “Kloppers carries with him the baggage of an M&A junkie,”
said  Frank Lucas , a director of London-based  fund manager  and
adviser Loeb Aron & Co., which holds BHP shares. “What BHP
needs is an absolute top-of-the line general manager who is
going to wring out efficiencies from all of its operations.”  Charges Due  BHP, due to report earnings tomorrow, is suffering from a
decline in commodity prices as growth slows in China and Europe.
This report will include a $450 million charge against BHP’s
shale assets, which Kloppers bought for $20 billion last year.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  valued them at $12.3 billion this month,
reflecting a drop in gas prices. Kloppers, 49, took home $11.6
million in salary, benefits and bonuses in the 2011 fiscal year.  Kloppers’ bonus decision follows a similar gesture by Rio
CEO Tom Albanese and Chief Financial Officer Guy Elliott after
Rio booked an $8.9 billion one-time charge on the value of its
aluminum unit. Investor confidence in Kloppers’ leadership has
eroded since he became CEO in 2007 and is now below average,
according to the Corporate Confidentiality Index, an anonymous
survey of analysts and investors, the Australian Financial
Review said July 25.  “There is pressure out there, fair or not,” said  Michael McCarthy , chief markets strategist at CMC Markets Australia.
“If this move, forgoing bonuses, is not enough to placate those
investors we are in danger of losing a real talent.”  Industry Writedowns  BHP joined  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and  Encana Corp. (ECA)  in writing down
the value of shale assets after natural gas prices fell to a 10-
year low this year. BHP said Aug. 3 it will cut the value of its
Fayetteville assets in Arkansas by a smaller-than-expected $2.84
billion. They were part of the holdings bought for $4.75 billion
from  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  It last year also paid $15.1
billion for Petrohawk Energy Corp. BHP’s petroleum CEO Mike Yeager also declined a bonus for 2012.  “The decision by Mike Yeager and Marius to forgo their
bonus takes pressure off them,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps
manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd., including
shares in Melbourne-based BHP. “The question is whether they
should have been offered a bonus to begin with.”  Gas prices in the U.S., which dropped to a low of $2.233
per million British thermal unit in April, are set to stay below
the $3 mark until at least the end of the year, according to the
mean estimate of 11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. For
next year, the average price may rise to $3.48, the data shows.  Gas Slump  “The potential for further writedowns has to exist, it
depends on what the gas price looks like,” said Tim Barker, who
helps manage investments, including shares in BHP, at BT
 Financial Group (8306)  Pty. The company needs to “maximize the returns
from their individual assets” to improve investors’ view of
BHP’s track record over the past five years, he said.  U.S. gas prices have declined about 40 percent since
Kloppers announced BHP’s entry into shale on Feb. 22 last year
because of a supply glut. While the charges were “clearly
disappointing” Kloppers said Aug. 3 that the company was still
convinced shale would be a significant, low carbon fuel source.  Kloppers, also faced with trimming back  capital spending  in
the light of falling prices and global growth concern, is the
best paid CEO of the top-five European mining companies
including Rio, Xstrata, and  Anglo American (AAL) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  said in a May
16 report. Kloppers got a bonus in cash and shares of $4.7
million, while Yeager was paid $6.6 million last year, including
$2.75 million in cash and share bonuses, BHP said.  BHP Outperforms  To be sure, BHP has outperformed its peers, falling 13
percent in Melbourne in the almost five years to Aug. 17 from
Oct. 1, 2007, when Kloppers took over. That compares with a 33
percent slide in Rio’s London-traded stock, a 61 percent drop in
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and a 55 percent slide in Anglo American Plc.  “You can’t underestimate how hard it is to bring
acquisitions to a company of that size,” Tim Riordan, a Sydney-
based portfolio manager at Parker Asset Management Ltd. who
helps manage A$150 million, said by phone. “Investors are
looking at monthly returns and BHP’s management are looking at
what’s going to happen in 10 years.”  BHP was “fortunate” to have the benefit of Kloppers
leadership in “difficult times,” Chairman Jac Nasser said in
the Aug. 3 statement, saying he backed his CEO’s move into shale
as a long-term strategy. Kloppers told reporters at the opening
of the company’s new office in Perth on Aug. 1 that he was
confident he had the support of shareholders, the Australian
newspaper reported.  Cash Flow  Lower prices and lower drilling activity “clearly also
lowers assessments of the value of future cash flows” from
shale,  Adrian Wood  and Lee Bower, resources analysts at
 Macquarie Securities (MAQIISF)  (Australia) Ltd. said in an Aug. 3 report.
“This undermines one of the justifications for the deal, namely
the idea that BHP could throw more capital at these assets to
accelerate the production ramp up.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which expects BHP to announce further
writedowns this month in other divisions, including the aluminum
unit, was “surprised” to see the Petrohawk assets unaffected,
the broker said in an Aug. 3 report, adding it was expecting as
much as $6 billion in shale writedowns. “Kloppers was given a
vote of confidence” by Nasser, it said.  “Marius is under a little bit of pressure with the
writedowns,” Grant Craighead, the Sydney-based managing
director of Stock Resources, said by phone. If slowing Chinese
growth doesn’t change direction soon, he said investors will
“be looking for some sort of new direction or plan to be
articulated in the next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  