-- Kodak Investor Asks U.S. Trustee to Probe ‘Secretive’ Bid
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/kodak-investor-asks-u-s-trustee-to-probe-patent-bidding.html
The U.S. Trustee overseeing  Eastman
Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) ’s bankruptcy was asked to probe the photography
pioneer’s patent auction by a New York hedge fund, which said
the “unusually secretive” bidding process wasn’t likely to
benefit creditors.  Esopus Creek Value Series Fund LP, which holds Kodak’s 9.75
percent Senior Secured Notes, said press reports about two lead
bidders joining forces,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , led the fund
“to be concerned as to the integrity of the bidding process,”
according to a letter e-mailed yesterday to Tracy Hope Davis,
the U.S. trustee who supervises bankruptcies in the New York
region.  Under bankruptcy law, “we note that the trustee is
entitled to avoid any sale resulting from collusive bidding,”
Esopus said in the letter, which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
The fund cited a Wall Street Journal article on Aug. 16 titled
“Kodak Auction Makes Odd Bedfellows.”  A voice-mail message seeking comment on Esopus’s letter
from Davis at the U.S. Trustee’s office wasn’t immediately
returned after regular business hours. Google doesn’t comment on
“rumor and speculation,” said spokesman Jim Prosser.  “The auction procedures were approved by the court, which
also ordered that all parties should maintain confidentiality,
as we are doing,”  Christopher Veronda , a spokesman for Kodak,
said in an e-mail.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment  Rochester, New York-based Kodak said Aug. 16 it was
continuing an extended auction of its digital-imaging patents
and may not sell them if it concludes that creditors will
benefit more if it holds them.  Digital Images  The patents for sale relate to the capture, manipulation
and sharing of digital images. Kodak is selling the patents to
fund a turnaround after filing for bankruptcy in January,
pursuing a plan to shrink the company and focus on printing more
than photography. Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez is
pushing ahead with the sale amid legal fights with device
makers, including Apple, over the ownership and validity of some
of the patents.  The patents are collateral for a $950 million bankruptcy
loan arranged by  Citigroup Inc. (C)   In court documents, Kodak has said the patents may be worth
$2.21 billion to $2.57 billion, based on an estimate by patent
advisory firm 284 Partners LLC. Kodak said it has generated more
than $3 billion in revenue by licensing some of the digital-
imaging patents to users, including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570) , Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility unit and  Nokia
Oyj. (NOK1V)   Licensing Revenue  Kodak said in June that 20 parties had signed agreements to
view confidential information ahead of potential bids. The
identities of unsuccessful bidders will be kept secret under
auction rules. The original deadline was Aug. 13.  Kodak filed for bankruptcy after years of burning through
cash while digital photography eroded its film business. The
company had spent $3.4 billion on restructuring before
bankruptcy, including payouts to shed 47,000 employees since
2003, closing 13 factories that produced film, paper and
chemicals, and 130 photo laboratories.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  