-- South Korea Won Trades Near Two-Week Low as Growth Cools
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-08-20T07:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/korea-won-trades-near-two-week-low-as-growth-cools-bonds-steady.html
South Korea ’s won fell, touching a
two-week low, on concern the nation’s exports will slow further
as global policy makers struggle to reverse an economic slowdown.
Bonds were little changed.  Official data this month showed exports slumped 8.8 percent
in July from a year earlier, the biggest drop in almost three
years, while the central bank kept  interest rates  unchanged at 3
percent. Euro-area finance ministers are expected to meet in
Athens this week to discuss Greek Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras’ request for a two-year extension of the country’s
fiscal adjustment program.  “Investors are cautious and waiting to see if the
politicians in Europe will be able to do something to turn
things around,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “South Korea’s exports aren’t
performing well. Although the central bank didn’t cut rates this
month, we’re still expecting one reduction this year.”  The won fell 0.1 percent to 1,135.55 per dollar at the
close in Seoul, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The currency
touched 1,136.25 earlier, the weakest level since Aug. 3. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used
to price options, dropped 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage
point, to 7.33 percent.  Asian stocks  dropped on concern  China  won’t ease monetary
policy. The world’s second-biggest economy has no intention of
cutting banks’ reserve requirements in the short term, according
to a weekend commentary in the Financial News, a newspaper
controlled by the central bank.  Overseas investors added to their holdings of Korean shares
last week, with net purchases of $1.22 billion, exchange data
show.  The yield on the government’s 3.5 percent bonds due March
2017 climbed one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.05
percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show. Three-year debt
futures slipped 0.11 to 105.64 and the one-year interest-rate
swap rose two basis points to 2.97 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  