-- N.J.’s Christie Calls Republican’s Rape Remark ‘Asinine’
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-08-20T20:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/n-j-s-christie-calls-republican-s-rape-remark-asinine-.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
the keynote speaker at the Republican National Convention, said
a senate candidate’s remark that “legitimate rape” rarely
leads to pregnancy was “asinine” and “ridiculous.”  “I’m not going out there working for him,” the Republican
governor said of Todd Akin, who told an interviewer that he
opposed abortion in cases of rape because “if it’s a legitimate
rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing
down.”  Christie, 49, who has campaigned across the nation for
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and other Republicans,
spurned pleas from some party members to make a bid for the
White House. He’ll deliver the centerpiece speech next week at
the convention, where Romney will officially become the party’s
presidential nominee.  Romney said Akin’s comments were “insulting, inexcusable,
and, frankly, wrong,” according to National Review Online,
which cited an interview. Republican Senator  Scott Brown  of
Massachusetts urged Akin to step aside, while  John Cornyn , the
chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, urged
Akin to “carefully consider” whether he should stay in the
race.  Christie said Akin, 65, a Missouri congressman who’s
running to oust Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill , “should be
ashamed of himself.”  Asked if he thought Akin should drop out, Christie told
reporters at a news briefing in Asbury Park, “That’s his call
to make.”  The first-term governor, who’s been on a beach vacation in
New Jersey, said he’s on the seventh draft of his convention
speech. He said he’s previewed it to his wife, his children and
“a small group of people,” without giving details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Asbury Park,  New Jersey  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  