-- N.Y. Transportation Board Backs Cuomo’s Tappan Zee Bridge
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-08-20T19:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/n-y-transportation-board-backs-cuomo-s-tappan-zee-bridge-1-.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s
plan to build a new $5.2 billion Tappan Zee Bridge over the
 Hudson River  was approved by a nine-member committee, allowing
the state to get federal funds including a $2 billion loan.  The New York Metropolitan Transportation Council
unanimously approved the project plan today in a special meeting
in  Manhattan . The council’s backing lets the state get federal
funding for the bridge, which won’t cost more than $5.2 billion,
Brian Conybeare, a special adviser to Cuomo, said last week. The
state’s application for a federal loan wouldn’t have moved
forward without the committee’s nod.  Hours after the vote, Cuomo sent a letter to Ray Lahood,
U.S. transportation secretary, asking him to consider  New York ’s
request for the loan.  “After over a decade of delay caused by political
dysfunction, this letter demonstrates that we are making real
progress towards constructing a stronger, transit-ready bridge
that will reduce congestion for year to come,” Cuomo said in an
e-mailed statement.  Cuomo, 54, has made building the new span a priority. Part
of the New York State Thruway system, the 3.1-mile (5-kilometer)
Tappan Zee connects Westchester and Rockland counties about 20
miles north of Manhattan. It carries 138,000 vehicles each day,
40 percent more than its design intended.  Car Costs  Getting federal support for the project is necessary to
keep down the cost of tolls on the new span, Cuomo has said. The
first-term Democrat has faced political pressure since his
administration released projections this month that tolls may
almost triple to $14 for cash customers, from the current $5, to
help pay for the bridge. Commuters with a discount plan would
pay $8.40, rather than $3 now.  In June, Congress approved a bill that provided $1.7
billion in funding for the Transportation Infrastructure Finance
and Innovation Act over two years, up from $120 million in
fiscal 2012. The extra cash allows the  Federal Highway
Administration  to issue $17 billion in loans, it said in a July
statement.  The council includes elected leaders from Nassau, Putnam,
Rockland, Suffolk and Westchester counties, New York City
planning officials and the  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority , which runs subways, buses and trains in the New York
City area. It is responsible for developing and implementing
regional transportation plans, and its approval is required for
projects in the region to receive federal funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at +1-518-426-9921 or
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at +1-212-617-3762 or
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  