-- Navistar Leads $8.5 Billion in U.S. Loan Sales as Prices Rally
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2012-08-20T17:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/navistar-leads-8-5-billion-in-u-s-loan-sales-as-prices-rally.html
U.S. junk-rated borrowers got $8.5
billion in loans last week as prices of the debt rallied to a 14
month high.  Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , the trucker facing an inquiry
from regulators and call center operator West Corp, led 19
borrowers in selling debt to non-bank lenders such as
collateralized loan obligations in the five days ended Aug. 16,
the busiest since the week ending May 17, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. The  Standard & Poor’s /LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100
Index rose Friday to 94.92 cents on the dollar, the highest
since June 6, 2011.  Investor demand for high-yield, high-risk loans is climbing
as economic reports about unemployment to consumer spending
points that the global economy is stronger than expected.  The
cost of leveraged loans sold to non-bank lenders fell this month
to 4.6 percentage points more than lending benchmarks, the
lowest since March when margins averaged 4.54 percentage points,
according to S&P’s Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary & Data.  “It’s a great time to be a borrower,” Timothy Broadbent,
head of Americas leveraged-loan syndicate at Barclays Plc, said
in an telephone interview. “Issuers are getting great rates”
as companies take advantage of the cash flowing into the loan
market.  DaVita Inc. (DVA) , a provider of kidney dialysis care, cut the
rate on a $1.65 billion  term loan  that will finance its
acquisition of Healthcare Partners to 3 percentage points more
than the London interbank offered rate, from a range of 3.25
percentage points to 3.5 percentage points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has served on DaVita’s
board of directors since 1994.  Fairway Loan  Fairway  Group Holdings Corp., the supermarket chain owned
by Sterling Investment Partners, got a cheaper  interest rate  on
a $260 million term loan it was seeking to refinance debt.  The company, whose  flagship store  is in  Manhattan ’s Upper
West Side, lowered the interest it will pay to 6.75 percentage
points more than the Libor, from 7 percentage points, according
to Bloomberg data.  “The market is open,” Jonathan Insull, a  money manager  at
Crescent Capital Group, which oversees about $10 billion of
speculative-grade debt, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
been a really busy August.”  Pinnacle Foods Finance LLC, the branded food products maker
owned by Blackstone Group LP, increased the size of a term loan
it was seeking to refinance debt by $150 million to $450
million. The credit, which was arranged by Barclays, will pay
interest at 3.5 percentage points more than Libor, with a 1.25
percent floor on the benchmark rate, the data show.  Pushing Deals  There’s a “flurry” of activity as banks seek to push
deals through before people leave on summer holiday, John Popp,
who heads Credit Suisse Group AG’s $17.5 billion credit
investment group in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“The next couple weeks should be somewhat slow.”  Demand for loans has returned after a period in May and
June when investors pulled back amid concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis was intensifying, according to Broadbent.  Sales in June fell to a six-month low of $11 billion as
 Greece  prepared for a national election seen determining its
future in the 17-nation euro currency zone. A total $20 billion
was sold to non-bank lenders last month.  Employment increased by 163,000 last month, helped by a
pickup at automakers and health-care providers, after a revised
64,000 June advance, Labor Department data showed. The median
estimate of 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
rise of 100,000.  “ Anxiety (VIX)  levels have dipped down,” said Insull. “Greece
isn’t blowing up today.”  CLO Sales  Fund managers this year had raised almost $20 billion of
new CLOS by the end of July, or about 55 percent more than the
$12.9 billion formed in all of 2011, according to a Wells Fargo
& Co. report from July 27.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
Leveraged-loans and slice them into securities of varying risk
and return.  There’s also been a “steady” flow of retail money into
funds that buy junk loans, said New York-based Broadbent.  Investors added $130.6 million to U.S. floating-rate funds
in the week through Aug. 15 for a ninth straight week of
inflows, according to research firm  EPFR Global . The funds,
which buy leveraged-loans, have received a net $2.2 billion this
year.  Leveraged-loans, which finance buyouts, have a speculative-
grade rating of less than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
below BBB- by S&P.  A total $16.23 billion of loans to be sold to non-bank
lenders was in or expected to come to market as of Aug. 15,
according to S&P Capital IQ LCD.  JPMorgan, Barclays, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and the U.S. securities unit of Royal Bank of Canada are
arranging the financing for Carlyle Group LP’s $3.3 billion
buyout of Getty Images Inc. from Hellman & Friedman LLC.  “There’s a pretty good sized calendar taking shape for
post-Labor Day,” said Credit Suisse’s Popp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  