-- Nexen Shows No Confidence Yet in Harper Assent
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-08-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/nexen-shows-no-confidence-yet-in-harper-assent.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  is
weighing whether to allow  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion takeover of
 Nexen Inc. (NXY) , even as northern Canadian companies and government
officials work to attract Chinese money.  Investment from the Asian country helped push mineral
exploration spending to a record last year in the Yukon, where
the main challenge remains shipping resources such as gold, zinc
and copper out of a frigid territory the size of  Spain  with a
population of 35,800.  Harper begins a tour today of Canada’s three northern
territories with a stop in Whitehorse, Yukon’s capital, where
Cnooc bought 60 percent of oil and gas explorer Northern Cross
(Yukon) Ltd. last year. The federal government must approve
state-owned Cnooc’s offer for Calgary-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , the
country’s No. 5 oil producer.  “These projects are going to require substantial
investment to be able to move forward, and we’re going to
require investment dollars from both Canadian companies and
companies outside our nation,” Yukon Premier  Darrell Pasloski 
said in a phone interview.  Harper, who discussed the Cnooc bid with his Cabinet Aug.
8, faces questions from opponents of his  Conservative Party  on
the degree of influence Chinese state-owned companies will gain
over the world’s third-largest oil reserves. Canadian business
leaders have urged the government to seek more access to Chinese
markets.  Concerns that Cnooc’s $27.50 per-share takeover bid may not
get approved by the government have weighed on Nexen’s stock,
keeping it below the offer price. Nexen shares closed  little
changed at $25.75 in  New York  on Aug. 17.  Export Bottleneck  The trip will underscore the difficulty  Canada  faces
exporting its natural resources to fast-growing Asian markets, a
goal that Harper has called a “national priority.”  “It is a challenge logistically in the north, whether
you’re building roads or whether you’re trying to get resources
out, that is an issue, and the government has announced some
infrastructure projects to help that along,” Andrew MacDougall,
Harper’s director of communications, said in a pre-trip briefing
to reporters in Ottawa Aug. 17.  While Yukon companies are able to ship commodities to  Asia 
through a port in Skagway,  Alaska , exploiting the full resource
potential of the nation’s north may require Canada to invest in
its own Arctic port infrastructure, said Pasloski.  “It’s crucial for us to have access to the world market,”
he said. “Our big challenge is capitalization for major
infrastructure investments.”  Some relief may come as early as this week with the signing
of an agreement with the federal government to give Yukon a
greater share of resource royalties. “I’m optimistic that will
be signed shortly,” Pasloski said.  Zinc Project  Asian companies have made seven “significant” investments
in Yukon-based companies since 2007, Samantha Paterson,
communications manager for the territory’s economic-development
ministry, said in an e-mail. To be sure, they are all smaller
than Cnooc’s bid for Nexen.  In 2008, Jinduicheng Molybdenum Group Co. Ltd. and
Northwest Non-Ferrous International Investment Co. Ltd., both
based in Shaanxi province, bought Yukon Zinc Corp.’s  Wolverine 
zinc project in the southeast of the province for C$101 million
($102 million).  Yunnan Chihong Zinc & Germanium Co. Ltd. (600497) , based in Yunnan
province, formed a joint venture with  Selwyn Resources Ltd. (SWN)  in
2010 to invest C$100 million exploring one of the largest
undeveloped zinc and lead deposits in the world.  Yukon was “ahead of the curve” among Canada’s 13
provinces and territories in wooing investors on trade missions
to Asia, said Harlan Meade, chief executive officer of Selwyn.  Investment Limits  Chinese investment has helped mining companies operating in
Yukon survive the credit crunch that hit the industry after the
global financial crisis of 2008, Meade said by phone from
 Vancouver , where the company is based. Yunnan Chihong’s
investment allowed Selwyn to press ahead with its plans to begin
production without having to raise more money through public
equity markets.  Mineral exploration  spending  in the Yukon rose to C$307
million in 2011, topping the previous record of C$157 million in
2010 while the economy expanded 5.6 percent.  Still, Meade said there “is and should be a healthy
discussion” in Canada about how much foreign investment the
country is willing to accept in its natural resources.  “I suspect with the passage of time, Canadians will ask a
lot more questions about what are the benefits we’re getting out
of resource development,” he said.  Mackenzie Gas  The federal government should limit the size of stakes that
state-owned enterprises from countries such as  China  can own in
Canadian companies,  Jack Mintz , a member of Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s council of economic advisers, said in an interview
this month.  Access to capital and infrastructure has also been an issue
for Yukon’s neighbor, the Northwest Territories. Harper on Aug.
21 will visit Norman Wells, a town along the proposed route of
the Mackenzie Gas Project, a pipeline conceived by a consortium
of companies led by  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  to deliver natural gas to
North American markets from the Mackenzie River delta.  Canada’s  National Energy Board  approved the project, which
has been in the works since the 1970s, in December 2010 after a
six-year review. Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver in
January cited the drawn-out review as a sign that the country’s
regulatory system is “broken.”  The government in June streamlined the review process and
gave Harper’s cabinet more authority to approve projects such as
Enbridge’s Northern Gateway pipeline, a 1,177-kilometer (3,861
mile), C$5.5 billion conduit that would transport crude from
 Alberta ’s oil sands to the Pacific Coast of British Columbia.  ‘Regulatory Purgatory’  The territory hopes the Mackenzine pipeline will go ahead,
said David Ramsay, the  Northwest Territories ’ minister of
industry.  “The Mackenzie gas project sat in regulatory purgatory for
six years,” he said by phone on Aug. 14. “I wouldn’t want to
see another project face that type of scrutiny and delay.”  Imperial Oil spokesman Pius Rolheiser said in an e-mail the
company continues to talk about a “fiscal framework” for the
project with the federal government. “To this point, we do not
have a structure that would enable a commercial project to
proceed.” Low natural gas prices have held the project back.  Harper will also travel to Cambridge Bay, Nunavut before
ending the trip in Churchill, Manitoba on Aug. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  