-- Nickel Music Downloads Fight Piracy Culture in Vietnam
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-21T09:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/nickel-music-downloads-fight-piracy-culture-in-vietnam.html
Vietnam ’s biggest music websites
will begin charging users to download songs, signaling progress
in intellectual property protection in a country with one of
 Southeast Asia ’s highest piracy rates for digital content.  Six sites that serve an estimated 23 million users, or
about a quarter of the population, will charge 1,000 dong (5
cents) per song starting Nov. 1, according to Hanoi-based
MVCorp. The fees will initially apply to about half of all
Vietnamese recordings, and talks are underway with Sony Corp.
and Universal Music Group Inc. to make more music available for
download, according to MVCorp and one of the website operators.  “Changing the mindset of twenty-something million people
does not happen overnight,” Phung Tien Cong, deputy general
director of  MVCorp , which helps the Recording Industry
Association of Vietnam manage recording rights online, said
yesterday in an interview. “As long as we ensure good quality
and services, people will pay.”  The successful implementation of the agreement would be
welcomed by foreign investors in a market where the flouting of
intellectual-property laws is seen as a barrier to trade
development, said Adam Sitkoff, executive director of the
 American Chamber of Commerce in Vietnam.   “It’s a step in the right direction,” Sitkoff said. “In
order to create a  knowledge economy , Vietnam has to do better in
enforcing intellectual property rights. It’s not just digital
media that’s at question here. It’s the whole mindset of whether
it’s OK to buy  counterfeit goods , be it videos and music or
shoes and shirts. It’s a mindset and it needs to change.”  Illegal Downloads  Globally, an estimated 95 percent of music downloads are
unlicensed and illegal, according to Alex Jacob, a London-based
spokesman for the  International Federation of the Phonographic
Industry . Before the agreement, almost all music downloaded in
Vietnam was illegal because the operators of websites and
mobile-phone applications weren’t licensed to provide the
service, Cong said.  Vietnam has the second-highest rate of illegal software
downloads in Southeast Asia, behind  Indonesia , according to a
 report  by the  Business Software Alliance , an industry group
based in  Washington , D.C. About 81 percent of software was
pirated in Vietnam in 2011, with a commercial value of $395
million, according to the group.  The piracy rate has declined 4 percentage points from 2009,
according to the BSA. By comparison, 86 percent of software was
pirated in Indonesia, 72 percent in  Thailand  and 55 percent in
 Malaysia .  The new download fees in Vietnam are part of an agreement
between MVCorp and the website operators signed Aug. 15,
MVCorp’s Cong said. The association represented by MVCorp
comprises recording companies, and about half of all music
produced in Vietnam would be covered by the agreement, he said.  Sony, Universal  NCT Corp ., which says it has a 35 percent share of
Vietnam’s online music market with 2 million daily users, is
negotiating with  Sony (6758)  Music and Universal to secure download
rights for international artists, said Nguyen Minh Kha, the
company’s vice president. NCT already has agreements with Sony
and Universal to stream songs on its website, Kha said. The
company plans to reach an agreement on downloads this year and
start charging for international music in early 2013.  Sean Yoneda, a Sony spokesman based in  Tokyo , referred
questions to the company’s  New York  offices and representatives
there weren’t immediately available to comment. Universal
representatives weren’t immediately available.  “Foreign songs will be a very complicated issue,” said
Nguyen Thanh Son, marketing manager of 24h Online Advertising
Joint-Stock Co., which operates the  Nhac Vui  music website. The
company would need to reach agreements with other locally-run
websites before it could impose fees on international music
downloads, Son said.  ‘Very Civilized’  “This new framework is very civilized, helping the
websites, musicians, and those working in the  music industry  to
have more income to produce better-quality products,” Son said.  The agreement was spurred by a regulation that took effect
this month that holds companies accountable for protecting the
copyright of songs on their sites, including content that’s
uploaded by users.  MVCorp expects that 5 percent of the country’s 25 million
online music users will pay for digital downloads by the end of
the year. If a user downloads five songs a month, monthly
revenue from legal downloads may reach 6.25 billion dong,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  ‘New Habit’  The website operators said download fees may spark an
exodus of users to smaller music websites not bound by the
agreement. That’s one reason why fees are low, Cong said.  “We’re starting to get users to form a new habit so we
can’t push the price up too high,” he said. “Young people will
change their mindset when they join the workforce and deem time
more valuable. They won’t mind spending a few thousand dong for
the service these websites provide.”  Charging fees may help websites that are struggling to
cover operating expenses with advertising revenue, Kha said.  Payment methods will include pre-paid cards,  text messages ,
and direct deductions from mobile-phone accounts, MVCorp said.  The music website operators are concerned that payment fees
imposed by mobile-phone service providers may be too high,
limiting profit margins on music downloads.  Vu Thi Hai, who uses the  Nhac Cua Tui , or My Music,
website, said the 1,000 dong fee is “not expensive,” and says
she’s willing to pay even more.  “I don’t mind paying because that amount of money is not
too much for a piece of art,” said Hai, a 25-year-old who works
for a real estate company in Hanoi. “If payment isn’t
difficult, it’s OK with me.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  