-- Nigerian Student’s One-Man Dream Act at Stake in Congress
-- B y   K a y l a   B r u u n
-- 2012-08-20T04:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/nigerian-student-s-one-man-dream-act-at-stake-in-congress.html
Sopuruchi Chukwueke grew up as an
outcast in the village of Ovim in southeastern Nigeria. Tumors
that distorted one side of his face wouldn’t stop growing, and a
medicine man said he should be taken away and drowned. In 2001,
when he was 15, his parents took him to an orphanage and
abandoned him.  He was rescued by a missionary nun, who arranged for
medical care in the U.S. Eleven years and seven operations
later, doctors have removed the benign growths caused by the
genetic disease  neurofibromatosis  and have performed
reconstructive surgery.  In that time, Chukwueke, who lost his right eye to the
tumors, has earned a high school equivalency diploma, achieved a
3.82 grade-point average as a biochemistry and chemical biology
major at  Wayne State University  in  Detroit  and won acceptance to
the University of Toledo’s medical school in  Ohio .  “My own personal struggles to receive treatment have
motivated, inspired and continually encouraged me to pursue a
medical career,” he said in an interview conducted by e-mail
because extensive surgeries to his mouth and jaw make it hard
for him to speak clearly on the telephone.  He can’t start classes this month, though, because the visa
that enabled him to travel to  Michigan  for treatment expired 10
years ago, and he has been in the U.S. illegally since then. The
only hope Chukwueke has of achieving his goal is enactment of
legislation sponsored by U.S. Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat, that applies solely to him and would give him
permanent U.S. residency.  Expired Visas  About 11.5 million people were in the U.S. illegally as of
January 2011, according to a report by the Department of
 Homeland Security  released in March of this year. Of those, an
estimated 40 percent entered on visas that have since expired,
said Michelle Mittlestadt, communications director at the
Migration Policy Institute, a Washington research center that
studies immigration.  A long-shot option for obtaining legal status is a private-
relief bill, which applies to just one person and is frequently
related to an immigration issue. While about 100 such bills are
introduced in each two-year congressional session, few are
enacted: So far in the current session of Congress, which
started Jan. 1, 2011, none of the 82 that have been introduced
has reached the White House. In 2009 and 2010, only two became
law. In 2007 and 2008, none succeeded.  The Senate passed Levin’s legislation,  S. 285 , by unanimous
consent on July 25. A week later the House Judiciary Committee
approved it by voice vote, so the measure that would allow
Chukwueke to fulfill his dream is just one step -- passage by
the full House -- from President  Barack Obama ’s desk.  Green Card  The bill would grant permanent residency to Chukwueke --who
goes by his middle name, Victor -- as long as he applies for it
within two years of the bill becoming law. It would reduce, by
one, the number of immigrant visas available to Nigerians and
would bar preferential treatment for members of his family.  Chukwueke, 26, lives in the Detroit suburb of Oak Park with
the  Daughters of Mary Mother of Mercy , a Nigeria-based order of
Roman Catholic nuns who work with the poor in  Africa ,  Europe  and
 North America . Members of the order have cared for him since he
arrived from the orphanage.  “Nigerian doctors told me that there was nothing they
could do, that they do not have the facilities and expertise to
handle my sophisticated medical problem,” Chukwueke said by e-
mail.  ‘American Dad’  The nuns also connected him with the man he calls his
“American dad” -- Jerry Burns, a nurse-practitioner at Wayne
State who has taken in 17 children over the last 12 years
through the Lutheran Social Services of Michigan  program for
refugees .  “Victor is a remarkable human being,” Burns, a 58-year-
old former Peace Corps volunteer in Niger, said in a telephone
interview. “We immediately began to bond. He very quickly
called me ’Dad.’”  Because of his visa situation, Chukwueke wasn’t eligible
for assistance from the Lutheran Social Services program. Burns
said he told the young man that he would help him go to college
and found a financial benefactor who has paid for much of his
education and wishes to remain anonymous.  Mother at Commencement  Chukwueke’s family -- his father, who is blind; his mother,
and his six brothers and sisters -- is still in  Nigeria .
Christopher Harris, an administrator in the pathology department
at Wayne State’s medical school, worked with Levin’s office to
arrange for Chukwueke’s mother, Mary, to travel to Detroit in
May 2011 to see her son for the first time in a decade and watch
him  address his graduating class  at commencement.  He had his seventh surgery that summer and applied to
medical school in the fall. In November he was admitted to the
University of Toledo with one condition: that he obtain
permanent-residency status by Aug. 1 of this year.  When he was accepted, “I was overwhelmed with emotion,”
Chukwueke said by e-mail. “I said wow! This is a dream come
true.”  For the last year he has volunteered at a medical research
lab, shadowed a surgeon at a clinic, and been involved with the
Children’s Tumor Foundation, a neurofibromatosis support group.  “There is no way that I would be able to overcome and
accomplish what this guy has,” Harris said in a telephone
interview, adding that Chukwueke still needs surgery to allow
insertion of a glass eye and to repair his nose. “Medical
school is the light at the end of the tunnel for Victor.”  Deportation Action Stalled  Immigration officials usually don’t start deportation
proceedings on someone who is the subject of private-relief
legislation, according to Levin’s spokesman, Gordon Trowbridge.
Levin sponsored similar legislation for Chukwueke in 2007 and
2009; both bills languished in the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Passage of the 2011 bill became time-sensitive when the medical
school made his enrollment conditional on getting a green card.  Chukwueke said he initially reached out to Levin’s office
with the assistance of the U.S. Committee for Refugees and
Immigrants, an Arlington, Virginia-based charity that works on
refugee and immigration issues worldwide. A private-relief bill
“was my only option given my immigration status,” he said by
e-mail.  When the bill passed the Senate last month, he said, “it
was nothing less than a miracle.”  Committee Action  At the Aug. 1  House Judiciary Committee  hearing on Levin’s
measure, Representative  John Conyers  of Michigan, the panel’s
top Democrat, described Chukwueke as an “impressive,
inspirational young man who has already contributed much to
Detroit, and we hope one day will contribute much to the
world.”  Including the Chukwueke legislation, the committee has
approved seven private-relief bills that now await action by the
House. All deal with immigration cases.  “Each of these individuals has a compelling story,”
committee chairman  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican, said at a
June 28 hearing on the other six bills. “For example, one of
the individuals was abandoned to die as an infant on a Nairobi
trash heap. Another came to the U.S. to care for a fiancé who
became a quadriplegic after being struck by a drunk driver.”  Smith’s office declined to say how he plans to vote on the
Chukwueke bill.  Approval of these private-relief bills is especially
noteworthy given that the same committee has refused to consider
major immigration legislation -- including the bill known as the
Dream Act,  H.R. 1842 , which opponents describe as amnesty for
the children of illegal immigrants.  ‘Hopeful’ of Passage  The lawyer handling Chukwueke’s immigration issues, Thomas Ragland of the Washington firm Benach Ragland LLP, said in an
interview that Chukwueke wouldn’t be applying for temporary
legal status under a new program allowing some young people who
illegally arrived in the U.S. before age 16 to remain in the
country on visas that must be renewed every two years.  The medical school “has been very clear that anything
short of permanent residency is not sufficient for them,”
Ragland said -- a status that would take effect only if Levin’s
bill becomes law. He said he was “hopeful” about House
passage, since the Judiciary Committee’s approval was “a really
big hurdle” to overcome.  Chukwueke will have to wait a little longer to find out
whether House leaders will make time on the floor schedule for
his bill, as Congress is in recess until Sept. 10. After that,
lawmakers have just seven weeks of work scheduled before the end
of the year.  With classes starting Aug. 20, he won’t be attending
medical school this year. The University of Toledo has told him
that he can start in 2013 if his bill becomes law.  His goals now, Chukwueke said, are staying in the U.S.,
getting his medical degree and “alleviating the pain and
suffering of others, especially those in underserved communities
and nations.”  The other committee-approved private bills are  H.R. 823 ,
 H.R. 316 ,  H.R. 794 ,  H.R. 357 ,  H.R. 824 , and  H.R. 1857 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kayla Bruun in Washington at 
 kbruun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  