-- No Loan Left Behind in Legg Mason’s Debt Pursuit: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-08-20T16:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/no-loan-left-behind-in-legg-mason-s-debt-pursuit-credit-markets.html
Companies left behind in the biggest
U.S. bond-market rally ever are catching up as investors from
 Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  to  New York  State’s biggest pension fund seek an
alternative to junk-bond yields at record lows.  The gap in borrowing costs between the smallest companies
with limited access to  capital markets  and bigger firms that can
offer bonds shrank to the least this year, according to Standard
& Poor’s Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary & Data. Relative yields
on  loans  to borrowers with earnings of $50 million or less fell
to 0.74 percentage point more than those of the biggest
companies on Aug. 16, from 1.27 percentage points in January.  Legg Mason, the Baltimore-based  money manager  overseeing
$636 billion, is starting a fund to invest in loans to so-called
middle-market companies, joining Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC
and the New York State Common Retirement Fund. The funds are
proliferating as the  Federal Reserve  says it expects to hold
 interest rates  near zero through at least late 2014.  “The middle-market right now is extraordinarily
competitive,” said E.A. Kratzman, president of Katonah Debt
Advisors LLC in New York. The most-active investors “are
willing to take down very, very large swaths” of loans to the
smallest issuers, he said.  Boosting Returns  Those corporate borrowers, which typically haven’t had
access to the $4.8 trillion U.S. market for company bonds, are
attracting investors even as the U.S.  unemployment rate  held
above 8 percent in July for a 42nd month.  The Fed’s latest quarterly survey of senior loan officers
at banks released Aug. 6 said while lenders loosened standards
for loans to large and medium-sized firms, those for small
business were little changed for the fourth consecutive period.  “The market has a lot of growth in front of it,” said
Chris Flynn, a managing director at THL Credit Advisors LLC, the
$2.8 billion debt investment arm of private-equity firm Thomas
H. Lee Partners LP. “It’s much more of an originate buy-and-
hold market given the lack of liquidity than what you see in the
broader  debt market .”  Elsewhere in credit markets, JPMorgan Chase & Co. is
planning to issue $500 million of perpetual preferred shares.
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  is offering the final
blocks of holdings in its Maiden Lane III LLC portfolio.
Benchmark gauges of corporate credit risk in  North America  and
 Europe  fell to the lowest in 15 weeks.  JPMorgan Preferreds  JPMorgan may issue $25 perpetual preferred shares as soon
as today at a yield of 5.5 percent to 5.625 percent, according
to a person familiar with the transaction, who asked not to be
identified because the terms aren’t set. The securities are
callable after five years.  Banks are selling preferred shares in part to get ready for
changes in capital regulations linked to the Basel III
international banking requirements, Marc Pinto, head of
corporate bond strategy at Susquehanna International Group LLP,
said in a telephone interview. There has been $7.5 billion in
$25 per share preferred issuance over the past six weeks,
according to Pinto.  Bonds of New York-based JPMorgan were the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
with 34 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:55 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Maiden Lane  The securities circulated by the New York Fed today
represent the last of the debt in Maiden Lane III,  Jack Gutt , a
spokesman for the district bank, said in a telephone interview.
The Fed created Maiden Lane III to purchase $62.1 billion in
collateralized-debt obligations and keep American International
Group Inc. from collapsing.  The Markit CDX North America Investment-Grade index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.4
basis point to a mid-price of 99.2 basis points as of 12:03 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the lowest since May 4.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined 3.5 basis points to 141,
the lowest since May 3.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  Commercial Loans  Commercial and industrial loans  outstanding  at banks in the
U.S. rose to 1.47 trillion as of Aug. 8, according to the Fed.
While that’s up from about $1.2 trillion in October 2010, it’s
still below the peak of $1.61 trillion in October 2008.  With its new fund targeting the smallest corporate
borrowers, Legg Mason is seeking to profit in a business  Wall
Street  largely abandoned after the credit crisis in 2008. Its
new closed-end fund aims to give investors their money back
after eight years, according to an Aug. 10 prospectus filed with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  It’s seeking to boost returns by investing in debt that
isn’t frequently traded such as the corporate-bond market, where
average yields on U.S. speculative-grade securities have dropped
to 7.4 percent, 0.2 percentage point from the record low reached
in May 2011 based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Junk Returns  Those securities have returned 108 percent since 2008, the
biggest four-year rally since  Michael Milken  helped create a
market for the securities in the 1980s.  Middle-market companies “typically have shorter operating
histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than
larger businesses,” with less predictable income and ability to
raise debt, Legg Mason said in the prospectus for the fund,
which will be managed by its Western Asset Management Co. unit.  Smaller companies “have been forced to find alternative
funding sources and are willing to pay a high interest rate and
include covenant features which benefit investors,” according
to the filing. Banks “continue to restrict their lending
activity, particularly to small and mid-sized corporations.”  Investors generally demand higher yield premiums for debt
that isn’t traded frequently because it’s more difficult to sell
if the creditworthiness of the borrower deteriorates or if the
investor needs to raise cash quickly.  Monroe, Tennenbaum  Tennenbaum Capital, a $4.5 billion credit investor in  Santa
Monica ,  California , is also raising money to invest in middle-
market debt, according to the San Bernardino County Employees’
Retirement Association, which was considering investing in a
middle-market fund.  The New York State Common Retirement Fund, with about
$150.3 billion of assets, committed money for the first time
this year to funds from Brightwood Capital Advisors LLC and
 Monroe Capital Corp. (MRCC) , according to a February monthly
transaction report.  The 0.74 percentage-point gap between relative yields on
loans to the smallest corporate borrowers and the biggest is the
tightest since 2010, when the difference was 0.42 percentage
points, according to S&P/LCD data, which before this year only
tracked the data annually.  In 2008, the smallest borrowers were paying 0.27 percentage
points more than bigger companies, which S&P/LCD defines as
having more than $50 million of annual earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Cash Flush  Middle-market loan yields averaged 7.46 percent as of Aug.
16, compared with 6.67 percent on loans to larger companies.  Middle-market loans are attracting investors who funneled
an unprecedented $44.9 billion in high-yield bond funds globally
through Aug. 8, up from $14.3 billion in the same period last
year, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.  Investors are seeking to boost returns as yields on U.S.
Treasuries hover near an unprecedented 1.38 percent reached on
July 25.  Junk bonds  have gained 9.6 percent this year, including
reinvested interest, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show, compared with 14.4 percent returns on the S&P 500  index 
when including reinvested dividends.  “We’re in a multi-year rotation into credit investing in
general among investors,” said Michael Herzig, a managing
director at THL Credit, based in  Boston . “The middle market is
a little tougher to access than” publicly trade high-yield
debt, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  