-- Norden Profits as Smallest Ships Beat Bigger Carriers: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-08-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/norden-profits-as-smallest-ships-beat-bigger-carriers-freight.html
D/S Norden (DNORD)  A/S,  Europe ’s biggest
commodity shipping company, is poised for a second consecutive
quarterly profit after concluding that smaller vessels would
earn more than larger ones as economies slow.  The operator of the region’s biggest fleet bet that vessels
carrying a broader range of goods would beat more specialized
ships in a year when the  International Monetary Fund  predicts
global trade will slow to 3.8 percent from 5.9 percent. Norden,
based in Hellerup,  Denmark , will also benefit as drought from
the U.S. to Europe to  Asia  reduces grain exports the most in 27
years, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Rates for Handysizes have exceeded Panamaxes, which carry
twice as much cargo, since May 23, the longest stretch since at
least 2006. Norden agreed to haul more Panamax cargoes than its
fleet can carry, hiring extra shipping capacity from other
companies as costs fell, and put about half its Handysizes in
the  spot market , allowing it to reap a windfall if rates rise,
Executive Vice President Martin Badsted said in an interview.  “Panamaxes are massively oversupplied at a time when
grains shipments are at risk, while Handysize fleet growth is
much more modest and they carry a wider mix of cargoes,” said
Marc Pauchet, a London-based analyst at ACM Shipping Group Plc,
a shipbroker with staff in 10 cities from  New York  to  Shanghai .
“This is the best trade there is for owners who have a mixture
of long and short strategies.”  Net Income  Shares of Norden gained 5.3 percent to 141.60 kroner in
Copenhagen trading this year and will reach 179.50 kroner in 12
months, according to the average of eight  analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities advanced 8.5 percent and Treasuries returned 1.2
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Norden will report third-quarter net income of $12.9
million and $10.4 million for the following three months,
according to the mean of nine estimates. That the company last
had a back-to-back profit in the second quarter of 2011 shows
the scale of the industry’s rout. The Baltic Dry Index of
commodity shipping costs averaged 945 since the start of this
year, the lowest since 1986.  Rates for Panamaxes, holding about 75,000 metric tons of
cargo, plunged 50 percent to $6,516 a day this year, according
the Baltic Exchange in London, which publishes costs along more
than 50 maritime routes. After retreating since June, Handysizes
are now 15 percent lower at $7,091. Panamaxes mostly carry coal,
iron ore and grain. Handysizes also haul steel, cement, wood,
sugar and fertilizers and often have cranes on board, making
them less dependent on port facilities.  Steepest Decline  Grain shipments will drop 9.1 percent to 289.4 million tons
in the 2012-13 marketing year, the steepest decline since 1985-
86, the USDA estimates. U.S. farmers, the biggest agricultural
exporters, are enduring the worst drought since 1956, heat waves
are searing crops from  Spain  to the  Black Sea region , and
 India ’s monsoon is about 15 percent below normal. The trade
occupies 43 percent of Panamaxes and 19 percent of Handysizes,
according to ICAP Shipping International Ltd.  While coal is the largest Panamax cargo, the influence of
grains cargoes increases in the fourth quarter, when harvests
are completed. Average returns peaked in those three months in
six of the past 10 years, Baltic Exchange data show.  Iron Ore  Global trade may weaken further, diminishing the number of
cargoes available for Norden’s Handysizes operating in the
single-voyage market. The IMF cut its 2012 world trade forecast
to 3.8 percent from 4 percent last month, figures that compare
with 5.9 percent in 2011. The 17-nation euro area contracted 0.2
percent from April to June and  China  has slowed for six
consecutive quarters.  China consumes more coal and  iron ore  than any other nation
and the raw materials are the second- and third-biggest seaborne
cargoes, behind crude oil. Trade in dry-bulk commodities will
advance 4 percent this year, from 6 percent in 2011, according
to Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  That may not be enough to erode the shipping industry’s
capacity glut. The global fleet of bulk carriers expanded 54
percent since 2008, according to data from IHS Inc., an
Englewood, Colorado-based research company. Owners embarked on
the building program after rates surged, with Panamaxes peaking
at $94,977 a day and Handysizes at $49,397. The arrival of the
new vessels came as the world economy was plunged into its
deepest recession since World War II.  Bulk Carriers  The combined market capitalization of the 14-member
Bloomberg Pure Play Dry Bulk Shipping Index has fallen to $5.64
billion from $36.2 billion in May 2008. Norden is valued at 6.1
billion kroner ($1 billion) and has the largest weighting in the
index. It is followed by Antwerp, Belgium-based Cie. Maritime
Belge SA and Seoul-based STX Pan Ocean Co.  Norden will report a loss of $254 million for 2012 after
writing down $300 million of the value of its fleet in May,
according to the mean of 11 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The value of a five-year-old Panamax plunged 25
percent to $22.1 million in the past year, data from the  Baltic
Exchange  show.  Outstanding orders at shipyards still equal 33 percent of
existing Panamax capacity, compared with 22 percent for
Handysizes, IHS data show. The Panamax fleet will expand 16
percent this year, more than three times faster than Handysizes,
Clarkson estimates.  Scrap Metal  Trade in fertilizers will grow 3 percent to 100 million
tons, according to Clarkson. Shipments of minor bulk cargoes
from forestry products to scrap metal, which tend to go on
smaller ships, will also advance 3 percent. No single cargo
represents more than 10 percent of demand for Handysizes,
Norden’s Badsted said by phone Aug. 15.  Norden operates 78 Panamaxes and 40 Handysizes, according
to a  quarterly report  Aug. 15. The largest owners of Handysizes
are China Shipping Group, Polish Steamship Co. and Cosco Group,
with at least 60 each, Clarkson data show.  “Handysizes are more flexible and volumes are not that
bad,” said Dan Togo Jensen, an analyst at Svenska Handelsbanken
AB in  Stockholm  whose recommendations on the shares of shipping
companies returned 16 percent in the past six months. “Norden
is in a stronger position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  