-- Obama Says Tax Return Release ‘Standard’ in Pressing Romney
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-08-20T19:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/obama-says-call-for-romney-tax-returns-standard-for-election.html
President  Barack Obama  again pressed
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  to release more of
his tax returns, saying voters have a right to know that
everyone’s been “playing by the same rules.”  Obama’s campaign has emphasized the tax issue in some of
its ads, including one that spotlighted a Swiss bank account
Romney had with Zurich-based UBS AG that was closed in 2010.  The president today said “in no way” have he or his
campaign suggested Romney did something illegal. Most voters, he
said, would find Romney’s use of Swiss bank accounts
significant.  “That may be perfectly legal, but, I suspect if you ask
the average American: ’Do you have one and is that part of how
you manage your tax obligations?’ they would say: ’No,” Obama
said at an impromptu news conference at the White House. “They
would find that relevant information.”  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, has refused to
disclose more than two years of tax returns. He released his
2010  tax return , which shows he paid an effective federal tax
rate of 13.9 percent on more than $21 million in income. He has
said he will release his 2011 return when it is completed, while
rejecting calls from Democrats and some Republicans that he
release returns for additional years.  Romney, 65, said last week he has paid a federal tax rate
of at least 13 percent over the past decade, and called the
“fascination” with his taxes “small-minded.”  Campaign ‘Precedent’  “When it comes to releasing taxes that’s a precedent that
was set decades ago, including by Governor Romney’s father,”
Obama said. “I think people want to know that, you know,
everybody’s been playing by the same rules, including people who
are seeking the highest office in the land.”  “I don’t think we’re being mean” to Romney by asking him
to reveal what other presidential candidates disclose, Obama
said.  Presidential candidates have been inconsistent in the
number of returns they have made public.  Ronald Reagan  made
seven years available;  George H.W. Bush  released three years;
and Romney’s father, George, made 12 years of returns public in
his 1968 presidential bid.  Obama and Vice President  Joe Biden  have released 12 years
of returns. Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the 2008 Republican
presidential nominee, disclosed only two.  Obama today also defended his political tactics against
accusations by Romney that he’s been running “a campaign of
division and anger and hate.”  Obama’s Focus  The president said he’s “focused on the issues and the
difference that matter to working families,” while also
accusing of Romney’s campaign of running false and unfair ads on
his administration’s welfare initiative.  He distanced himself from an advertisement produced by an
independent super-political action committee supporting him,
Priorities USA, that suggests a link between Romney and the
death of a woman whose husband years earlier had lost his health
insurance when Bain Capital LLC, the private-equity firm Romney
co-founded, closed the plant where the man worked.  Romney left Bain before the plant closed and the worker’s
wife had kept her job and health insurance for a period of time
after her husband lost his position.  “I don’t think that Governor Romney is somehow responsible
for the death of the woman,” as suggested in the ad, Obama
said. He added that he didn’t preview or approve the ad.  The Priorities USA commercial has run once.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  