-- Obama Says Chemical Weapons Use by Syria ‘Red Line’ for U.S.
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-08-21T17:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/obama-says-any-chemical-weapon-use-in-syria-red-line-for-u-s-.html
President  Barack Obama  said any
discovery that Syria’s chemicals or biological weapons are being
moved or used may force him to reconsider U.S. military action.  “A red line for us is we start seeing a whole bunch of
chemical weapons moving around or being utilized,” the
president told reporters yesterday in a news conference at the
White House. “That would change my calculus.”  Obama said the U.S. has contingency plans to deal with
President Bashar Al-Assad’s regime and its violence toward the
Syrian people. It has made clear to the government and what he
termed “other players on the ground” that there would be
“enormous consequences” for any development involving Syria’s
chemical weapons arsenal.  The U.S. president said he’s not ordered any military
engagement in the 17-month conflict. Syria’s hostilities have so
far claimed the lives of more than 23,000 people, including more
than 16,000 civilians and 5,800 soldiers, according to the
opposition Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights . United Nations
military monitors are leaving the country after the two sides
failed to observe an April cease-fire.  “We cannot have a situation where chemical or biological
weapons are falling into the hands of the wrong people,” Obama
said.  The U.S. president’s comments show the West is seeking a
pretext for invasion, Syria’s Deputy Prime Minister Qadri Jamil
told reporters in Moscow today.  Weapons ‘Monitored’  Syrian officials have given contradictory statements about
a chemical and biological weapons capability. Foreign Ministry
spokesman Jihad Makdissi said last month that the munitions are
secure and won’t be used against the country’s opposition.  “All the stocks of these weapons that the Syrian Arab
Republic possesses are monitored and guarded by the Syrian
Army,” he said at a July 23 Damascus press conference shown on
state-run television. “These weapons are meant to be used only
and strictly in the event of external aggression.”  The Foreign Ministry later issued a statement saying
Makdissi was responding to a “false premise” and wasn’t
confirming for the first time that Syria possessed chemical
weapons.  While the U.S. has urged Assad to step down, Obama said
that “at this point the likelihood of a soft landing seems
pretty distant.” The U.S. is consulting with other nations
about managing the eventual transition in Syria, he said.  UN Vetoes  International agreement on Syria is elusive. The U.S. and
its European allies seek to force Assad to step down, while
Russia and  China  have vetoed UN resolutions designed to
accelerate his departure.  UN envoy  Kofi Annan  stepped down this month, accusing world
powers of “finger-pointing and name-calling” at the UN. The
organization’s cease-fire monitors will leave Syria by Aug. 24
after the UN Security Council decided not to renew the monitors’
mandate. While the UN has agreed to keep a liaison office in
Syria, the move marks the end of the organization’s hopes that a
cease-fire between Assad’s regime and its armed opponents might
be close.  Lakhdar Brahimi, the former Algerian foreign minister
appointed to replace Annan and revive the UN peace effort, told
France24 television on Aug. 19 that he wanted to see whether
serious dialogue was feasible.  “A lot of people say we must avoid civil war in  Syria ,”
Brahimi said. “I think we are already there. We have been for
quite some time now. What’s needed is to end the civil war, and
that won’t be easy.”  Death Toll  Responding to Brahimi’s remarks, the Syrian Foreign
Ministry said a civil war exists only in the minds of
conspirators against the country, according to a statement cited
by the state-run SANA news agency.  Talks with Syria’s rebels are possible and may include the
subject of Assad’s resignation, Jamil said in Moscow today. Even
so, calls for his departure before talks begin would make
negotiations impossible, he said.  At least 152 Syrians died in violence today, according to
Al Arabiya television citing the Local Coordination Committees,
an opposition group. Government forces shelled locations in the
suburbs of Damascus, near the northern city of Aleppo and in the
southern province of Daraa where the unrest first erupted last
year, the committees said.  A total of 144 civilians were killed yesterday, including
43 in Damascus, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  Japanese Journalist  A Japanese journalist, Mika Yamamoto, was killed in Syria
yesterday, according to a Japanese Foreign Ministry official.  Yamamoto died during a firefight between government and
rebel forces in Aleppo, Toshinori Matsushiro said by phone.
Yamamoto, a freelance journalist at  Japan  Press Inc., was born
in 1967, according to the Tokyo-based news agency’s website. She
had reported in Afghanistan and  Iraq  since 2001 and received
several journalism awards in Japan, the website said.  Syrian refugee numbers in  Turkey  have reached about 70,000,
Ershad Hurmuzlu, an adviser to President  Abdullah Gul  told Al
Arabiya television yesterday. Last week, the UN estimated Turkey
was housing about 60,000 Syrians.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  