-- Obama Crashes Wife’s State Dinner for Children’s Recipes
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-08-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/obama-crashes-wife-s-state-dinner-for-children-recipes.html
“I had to crash the party because I
did not want to miss out on all the fun,” said President  Barack Obama  in front of dozens of aspiring chefs in the White House
yesterday.  He made a surprise visit to Michelle Obama’s first “Kids’
State Dinner” for winners of a nationwide recipe contest, the
Healthy Lunchtime Challenge. The event was sponsored by
 Epicurious.com  and  Let’s Move , the first lady’s campaign against
child obesity.  “I’m an OK cook,” the president said, adding that his
specialties included omelets and toast.  More than 1,200 children 12 and younger submitted recipes,
of which 54 were selected -- for the states, D.C. and
territories. Their mothers came along.  “Is this not cool?” asked Mrs. Obama, in a green Barbara
Tfank dress and pearls. “This is one of the best events we’ve
ever done.”  She pointed out some of the more creative recipes, such as
the “Secret Service Super Salad” submitted by 9-year-old
Michael Lakind of  Texas , who said he wants to be an agent
someday.  Ellen Goldsmith-Levitt of  Massachusetts  attended with her
daughter, Rachel, who won for her goat-cheese sandwich. They
said they enjoy making pastas and soups together. “She just
came out a foodie,” the mother said.  The contest judges included Marshall Reid, 12, who co-wrote
“Portion Size Me: A Kid-Driven Plan to a Healthier Family”
with his mother, Alexandra, also a contest judge.  “I was overweight. I was unhappy and was bullied,” he
said onstage as  Michelle Obama  looked on.  ‘Really Tall’  Haile Thomas, an 11-year-old from  Arizona , whose corn salad
was featured on the menu, said the first lady “is really tall.
She told me to keep up the good work, and she gave me a hug.
She’s so inspiring.”  Elena Guylay, 11, won for her “Fiesta Casserole,” a rice
and bean dish. She wore a cowboy hat to the event in honor of
her home state of  Idaho .  After the children were greeted in the Grand Foyer, which
was decorated in balloons and filled with tunes from the U.S.
Marine Band, they were escorted into the East Room where
portraits of George and Martha  Washington  hang. There were
sunflowers, bright red tomato centerpieces. Napkin holders were
“Let’s Move” bracelets.  Appetizers were kale chips and quinoa, black bean and corn
salad. The main course was cabbage sloppy joes with baked
zucchini fries. The dessert was a strawberry-banana smoothie and
summer fruit salad.  Three Chefs  Mrs. Obama introduced the White House chefs who put the
event together, Cris Comerford and Bill Yosses. She joked
that she would have helped them, but couldn’t as she was having
her makeup done.  The event concluded with a mini-concert by Big Time Rush, a
boy band that appears on Nickelodeon, after which White House
assistant chef Sam Kass took the children on a tour of the garden.
He promised he would help them get a sighting of the Obamas’ dog,
Bo.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include stories on  film  and  wine   To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 