-- Local Governments May Be Less Willing to Pay Debts, Fitch Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-08-20T19:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/local-governments-may-be-less-willing-to-pay-debts-fitch-says.html
Rating cuts in the $3.7 trillion
municipal-debt market will outpace upgrades by “a wide margin”
as lagging property-tax revenue and persistent labor costs
stress local governments, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Chapter 9 bankruptcy filings and defaults may extend beyond
 California , where Stockton, Mammoth Lakes and San Bernardino
each sought court protection in the past two months, Fitch said
today in a report. Twelve percent of local-government rating
actions in 2012 through July were reductions, compared with 2
percent for upgrades, according to the New York-based company.  “The consideration of municipal bankruptcy as a viable
option for relief in itself calls into question an issuer’s
commitment to repaying debts,” Fitch analysts including Dan Champeau said in the report. “Chapter 9 filings on a broader
scale would represent a marked departure from municipal
governments’ long demonstrated willingness to avoid default and
bankruptcy.”  Local governments have been slow to recover from the 18-
month recession that ended in June 2009, with revenue falling
for six straight quarters, according to a report from the Nelson
A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government in  Albany , New York.
Cities and counties receive about 33 percent of their revenue
from state transfers and 29 percent from property taxes,
according to the Fitch report.  School districts, counties, and cities that provide social
services receive the most state aid, and are most at risk of
rating cuts, Fitch said.  Moody’s Investors Service said last month that localities
may view debt service as “a discretionary budget item,” which
would increase the chances of municipal defaults.  Investors have ignored the filings in California, instead
demanding the least since 2008 to hold the debt of issuers in
the state. The  extra yield  on 10-year California state and local
general-obligation bonds compared with top-grade debt narrowed
to 0.76 percentage point on Aug. 16, the least since December
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  