-- Todd Akin and Paul Ryan Are More Alike Than You Think
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-08-20T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/todd-akin-and-paul-ryan-are-more-alike-than-you-think.html
Todd Akin’s  remarks  about some rapes
being “legitimate,” and the ability of a woman to miraculously
self-abort in those instances, have many of his fellow
Republicans desperate to distinguish him from others in their
party. This isn’t easy.  Akin, a member of the U.S. House of Representatives who is
seeking to unseat Democratic Senator  Claire McCaskill  of
Missouri, is not an outlier. No less than  Paul Ryan , the
Republican candidate for vice president, shares his views. Ryan,
Akin’s colleague in the House, has sponsored legislation with
him that also sought to distinguish between types of rape:
Instead of “legitimate,” it used the word “ forcible .”  What Akin’s remarks have unleashed is a discussion in the
presidential race over social issues that will be hard for
Republicans to control. They were reasonably sure they could
paper over the differences between Ryan and his running mate,
 Mitt Romney , on Medicare. On social issues, the problem is the
opposite: The difference between Ryan’s views and Akin’s could
fit on a Post-it note.  On Sunday, the Republicans’ chances for taking control of
the Senate took a big hit. When asked on a St. Louis TV program
if he would make an exception to his anti-abortion stand for
rape, Akin  said  he would not because in those instances a
woman’s body will somehow know to end the pregnancy itself.  Escalating Rejections  “First of all,” he said, from “what I understand from
doctors,” pregnancy as a result of rape is “really rare. If it’s
a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that
whole thing down.” He went on to say that if “maybe” -- note the
maybe -- the pregnancy survived, “there should be some
punishment, but the punishment ought to be on the rapist and not
attacking the child.”  The Romney-Ryan campaign has come out with escalating
rejections of Akin’s remarks. Yet Ryan and Akin are in the
mainstream of the prevailing House Republican view on abortion.  Not only did Akin and Ryan co-sponsor legislation
redefining rape, Ryan ran for Congress as a strong pro-lifer and
has a  100 percent rating  from the National Right to Life
Committee. “This includes support for the Partial-Birth Abortion
Ban Act, the Unborn Victims of Violence Act, the No Taxpayer
Funding for Abortion Act,” the committee notes. Last year Ryan
and Akin were  co-sponsors of  the Sanctity of Human Life Act,
also known as “personhood” legislation, which would give a
fertilized egg the same rights as a human being and would outlaw
some forms of  birth control .  There’s only so much Republicans can do to cast Akin out of
the party. He’s not a local gadfly who happened to win the
party’s nomination for the  U.S. Senate , like Christine “I Am Not
a Witch” O’Donnell in Delaware or Sharron “Beware of Shariah Law
in America” Angle in Nevada. Akin is a six-term member of the
House in good standing who defeated two other Republicans by a
comfortable margin this month.  What Akin apparently fails to understand is this: Just
because colleagues like Ryan share his views, that doesn’t mean
he can talk about them when there’s a presidential race going on
-- especially a race in which his party’s candidate is fudging
his views on the subject in hopes of attracting moderates.  Although slow to recognize he shouldn’t have blurted out
his thinking, Akin had gotten religion (another subject that’s
off limits) by the time he spoke with  Mike Huckabee  on his radio
show Monday. Akin didn’t elaborate on the medical data about the
frequency of pregnancies ending spontaneously in cases of rape,
but he did say that “legitimate” was the wrong word to use. “I
was talking about forcible rape,”  he said . Legitimate “was
absolutely the wrong word.”  Careful Consideration  Akin said neither the Romney campaign nor the  National
Republican Senatorial Committee  had called and said, “Todd, I
think you should drop out.” Maybe he’s mixing up his words
again. Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, the chairman of the NRSC,
issued a statement  calling on  Akin to “carefully consider what
is best for him, his family, the  Republican Party .” And if Akin
doesn’t understand that as a request to step aside, Cornyn added
that his NRSC funding would dry up. Senator  Scott Brown  of
Massachusetts, campaigning for re-election against  Elizabeth Warren , also asked him to step aside, as has the relatively
moderate senator from the swing state of Wisconsin,  Ron Johnson .  In every Senate primary this season, except for Wisconsin,
where former Governor  Tommy Thompson  prevailed, the most
conservative candidate has won. The  Tea Party  is thrilled, but
establishment Republicans are worried. Soft-porn-wrestling mogul
 Linda McMahon  could lose for the second time in Connecticut.  Akin could also lose -- which is in part why Cornyn asked
him to “carefully consider” his options over the next 24 hours:
 If he drops out  of the race by Tuesday, the party can simply
select a replacement. Akin may yet decide to drop out, although
as of this writing his  Twitter account  shows no signs of
surrender.  If Akin were to quit, it would certainly help the
Republican cause in Missouri. Nationally, however, the debate
has been joined. Last week was all about whether Romney could be
hurt by Ryan’s positions on Medicare. This week, thanks to Akin,
we’re discussing whether Romney could be hurt by Ryan’s
positions on social issues.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the  municipal-bond market 
is safe and on U.S.  circumcision policies ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
how the White House views  new warnings from Israel ;  Peter Orszag 
on the  false promise that competition  can fix Medicare; William
Pesek on Asia’s challenge in  limiting smoking ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 partisan rancor ; William Silber on  Paul Volcker’s early fight 
against inflation.  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 