-- Oil-Tanker Losses Persist on Declining Middle East Crude Exports
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-08-20T16:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/oil-tanker-losses-persist-on-declining-middle-east-crude-exports.html
Losses for the biggest  oil tankers 
hauling Middle East crude to  Asia , the industry’s benchmark
route, persisted amid declines in export cargoes.  Very large crude carriers on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan
voyage are  losing  $6,083 daily, figures from the  Baltic Exchange 
in London showed today, less than $6,383 on Aug. 17. The
vessels, each able to haul 2 million barrels of oil, were
earning $41,093 a day at this year’s high in April.  Seaborne oil trade growth is expected to remain “weak”
during the next 18 months, according to an e-mailed report from
Oslo-based RS Platou Markets AS. VLCC returns reached the lowest
level in at least four years on July 23. The VLCC fleet is
poised to expand by 6.9 percent this year, exceeding 4.7 percent
demand growth, according to data from Clarkson Research Services
Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  “Activity levels have been lower with reduced Middle East
output in July and August, partly due to lower Iranian
exports,” RS Platou said in the report. VLCC rates are “still
low,” it said.  The exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed
at reducing fuel costs, vessel owners’ largest expense. They
can boost returns by slowing ships on return journeys after
unloading cargoes. The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, fell
0.1 percent to $662.69 a metric ton, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Charter  costs  for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage rose 0.3
percent to 36.41 industry-standard Worldscale points, exchange
figures showed.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 36.41 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs climbed
0.3 percent to 610, the highest since Aug. 10, according to the
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  