-- Oil Rises as European Leaders Prep for Debt Talks
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-20T12:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/oil-rises-a-fifth-day-as-european-leaders-prepare-for-debt-talks.html
Oil traded near its highest closing
level in three months in  New York , the longest streak of gains
in a month, before  Europe ’s leaders meet to discuss combating
regional debt turmoil.  Crude advanced as much as 0.5 percent European policy
makers plan a week of intensive shuttle diplomacy to help
resolve the situation. The Obama administration said on Aug. 17
that a release from the nation’s Strategic Petroleum Reserve
remains “an option that is on the table.”  Saudi Arabia  pumped
at the highest level in more than three decades in June and
monthly exports were the most since November 2005, according to
the Joint Organization Data Initiative.  “I remain optimistic that a solution to the Euro crisis
will be found,” said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global Risk
Management in Middelfart,  Denmark , who predicts prices will
trade within a $4 range this week before advancing. “There is
simply too much at stake to let the Euro project fail. From a
longer perspective, upside bias for oil is warranted due to
market fundamentals.”  Crude for September delivery was at $96.15, gaining 14
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 12:59 p.m.  London  time, having increased as much as 52 cents
to $96.53 a barrel. It rose 0.4 percent to $96.01 on Aug. 17,
the highest close since May 11. The contract expires tomorrow.
The more-actively traded October future was at $96.45. Oil’s run
of gains is the longest since the seven days ended July 19.
Front-month prices are 2.7 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement climbed 66 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $114.34 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark grade’s premium to West
Texas Intermediate was at $17.91, from $17.39 on Aug. 17.  Bundesbank Criticism  Crude pared some of its advance after Germany’s Bundesbank
stepped up its criticism of the  European Central Bank ’s plan to
embark on potentially “unlimited” government bond purchases,
widening a rift over how to tackle the sovereign debt crisis.  The Obama administration discussed planning for using the
strategic petroleum reserve earlier this year when the average
retail price of gasoline in the U.S. increased to almost $4 a
gallon and the European Union prepared to impose a ban on
Iranian oil imports.  “The administration does carefully monitor the global oil
market” because of its impact on the economy,  Josh Earnest , a
White House spokesman, said at a briefing today.  Jean-Claude Juncker , the Luxembourg premier who heads the
group of euro-area finance ministers, is expected in  Athens  on
Aug. 22 to discuss Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’ request
of a two-year extension for the country’s fiscal adjustment
program. Samaras travels to Berlin and Paris on Aug. 24 and 25
after French President  Francois Hollande  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  meet in the German capital on Aug. 23.  Saudi Arabia Production  Saudi Arabia’s output increased 3 percent to 10.1 million
barrels a day in June from May, according to data submitted by
the government to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries and posted on JODI’s website yesterday. Exports were
at 7.84 million barrels. The Middle East nation overtook Russia,
which pumped 9.9 million barrels, as the world’s largest oil
producer during the month, the data showed.  Net-long positions in oil held by money managers, including
hedge funds, commodity pools and commodity trading advisers,
retreated by 11,764, or 7.2 percent, to 152,222 futures and
options combined in the seven days ended Aug. 14, according to
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of
Traders report on Aug. 17.  In London,  hedge funds  and other money managers raised
 bullish bets  on  Brent crude  by 5,655 contracts to their highest
level in three months in the week ended Aug. 14, according to
data from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 96,614 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That’s the highest level since the week to May
15. Net longs were at 90,959 on Aug. 7, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  