-- Oil Advances Before European Crisis Meetings, Stockpile Report
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-08-21T06:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/oil-trades-near-three-month-high-before-u-s-stockpile-reports.html
Oil traded near the highest close in
three months in  New York  before a meeting of European leaders on
the region’s debt crisis, even as a report is forecast to show
stockpiles rose in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures gained as much as 0.4 percent after sliding 4 cents
yesterday, the first drop in five days. European leaders will
hold meetings in  Greece  and  Germany  this week. U.S. oil supplies
probably gained for the first time in about a month as imports
climbed and demand fell from a nine-month high, a Bloomberg
survey showed before an Energy Department report tomorrow.
Prices are trading below their 200-day moving average.  “Technically, we feel that crude is trading at
resistance,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer
of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney. “The
EU meetings are tentatively being viewed. I see the only
solution is to provide more time for Greece.”  Crude for September delivery was up as much as 40 cents
at $96.37 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 2:26 p.m. Singapore time. It closed at
$96.01 on Aug. 17, the highest level since May 11. The contract
expires today. The more-actively traded October future rose 36
cents to $96.62. Front-month prices are down 2.5 percent in 2012.  Brent oil for October settlement was at $114.07 a barrel,
up 37 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $17.42, compared with $17.44 yesterday.  Technical Resistance  Oil in New York has technical resistance along its 200-day
moving average, about $96.72 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday advanced close to this
indicator before settling lower for the day. Sell orders tend to
be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the head of
the euro group of finance ministers, visits Greece tomorrow to
discuss the indebted nation’s fiscal adjustment program. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande 
meet in Berlin Aug. 23 to discuss the fiscal crisis, and both
are set to talk separately with Greece’s Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras later in the week.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably rose  900,000 barrels  last
week, according to the median response in a Bloomberg News
survey. Inventories of 366.2 million barrels in the week ended
Aug. 10 were about 8 percent above the  five-year  average for
this time of year. Gasoline supplies probably decreased by 1
million barrels and distillate fuel, including heating oil and
diesel, gained by 1 million, the survey shows.  Storm Watch  “The market has been watching what’s been happening with
U.S. inventories over the past five to six weeks,” said  David Lennox , an analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney. “Stockpiles are
still high, that’s why we’re not seeing the price rattle up to
$100. We’ve also had a fairly benign storm season so far.”  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release separate inventory data today. The API collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the Energy Department for
its weekly survey.  Prices also fluctuated before reports later this week that
may show the  U.S. economy  is starting to strengthen after a
second-quarter slowdown. Combined purchases of new and existing
houses increased in June, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. The National Association of Realtors will
release existing sales on Aug. 22, with the Commerce Department
publishing data on new sales the next day.  The U.S. National Hurricane Center is tracking three
potential storms in the Atlantic basin. A low pressure system
about 800 miles east of the Lesser Antilles has an 90 percent
chance of becoming tropical in the next two days, the center
said at 8 p.m. East Coast time. A system off the eastern coast
of  Mexico  has a 30 percent chance of developing and one south of
the Cape Verde Islands has a 40 percent chance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  