-- Oil Holds Near Three-Month High as Europe Discusses Debt
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-08-20T20:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/oil-falls-from-three-month-high-on-europe-debt-concern.html
Oil in New York was little changed
near a three-month high amid concern that Germany’s central bank
won’t support a plan to ease the region’s sovereign debt crisis
and as the dollar slipped against the euro.  Futures fell for the first time in five days after the
Bundesbank stepped up criticism of the  European Central Bank ’s
plan to embark on potentially “unlimited” government bond
purchases. The dollar weakened against the euro as Greek Foreign
Minister Dimitris Avramopoulos said the country would meet
fiscal targets connected to its bailout.  “The market is rather listless,” said  Addison Armstrong ,
director of market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford,
 Connecticut . “There’s not any news that’s going to move the
market strongly in either direction.”  Crude oil for September delivery fell 4 cents to settle at
$95.97 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . In intraday trading,
the contract reached $96.53, the highest level since May 11.
September oil expires tomorrow. The more actively traded October
contract declined 6 cents to $96.26.  Brent oil for October settlement dropped 1 cent to settle
at $113.70 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Jean-Claude Juncker , the Luxembourg premier who heads the
group of euro-area finance ministers, is expected in Athens on
Aug. 22 to discuss Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s
request for a two-year extension of the country’s fiscal
adjustment program. Samaras travels to Berlin and Paris on Aug.
24 and 25 after French President  Francois Hollande  and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  meet in the German capital on Aug. 23.  European Discord  “The Bundesbank statements show that there is still a lot
of disagreement about how to deal with the debt crisis in
Europe,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price
Futures Group in  Chicago . “It appeared last week that an
agreement was near. This is causing people to sell off oil.”  The talks come as the ECB fleshes out plans to curb the
turmoil in European bond markets, which would give governments
time to revamp their economies. The bank’s governing council may
decide in early September to set yield limits on the debt of
each country,  Der Spiegel  reported yesterday, without saying
where it got the information.  Europe’s shared currency climbed against the dollar after
Avramopoulos said his government will present budget cuts that
show Greece will meet the fiscal targets linked to its bailout.
The euro gained 0.1 percent to $1.2346. A stronger euro and
weaker U.S. currency increase the appeal of dollar-denominated
raw materials as an investment.  Premium Widens  The European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate crude traded in New York rose 5 cents to $17.44.  The European oil may stay more expensive than WTI in coming
months because of field maintenance in the North Sea. Shipments
of the four crude streams that make up Dated Brent will tumble
next month, loading programs obtained by Bloomberg indicate,
amid a scheduled overhaul at the Buzzard oilfield.  “The heavy maintenance season in the North Sea explains
the relative strength of Brent,” said  Michael Lynch , president
of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. “Otherwise we are just waiting on further signs
of what the economy will do.”  Oil rose in early trading as  United Nations  monitors
prepared to leave Syria after the failure of their four-month
mission, while the organization’s newly appointed envoy
described the country’s conflict as a civil war. The departure
of the UN military monitors marks the end of the organization’s
hopes that a cease-fire between the government of Bashar al- Assad and its armed opponents might be close.  Middle East  “Energy markets are moving on just about everything except
oil news right now,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist
at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion. “Worries about the  Middle East  have been boosting
prices but there were no major headlines over the weekend.”  Saudi Arabia’s output increased 3 percent to 10.1 million
barrels a day in June from May, according to data submitted by
the government to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries and posted on the Joint Organization Data Initiative
website yesterday. The Middle East nation overtook  Russia , which
pumped 9.9 million barrels, as the world’s largest oil producer
during the month, the data showed.  Net-long positions in oil held by money managers, including
 hedge funds , commodity pools and commodity trading advisers,
retreated by 11,764, or 7.2 percent, to 152,222 futures and
options combined in the seven days ended Aug. 14, according to
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of
Traders report on Aug. 17.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 395,793
contracts as of 3:41 p.m. in  New York , the lowest total this
month. Volume totaled 489,470 contracts Aug. 17, 11 percent
below the three-month average. Open interest was 1.49 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  