-- Honda Accord Is Most-Stolen in U.S. for 4th Straight Year
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-20T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/honda-accord-is-most-stolen-in-u-s-for-4th-straight-year.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s 1994 Accord was
the most frequently stolen car in the U.S. in 2011 for the
fourth straight year as the vehicle’s popularity and lack of
security features made it a favorite among thieves.  Last year, 7,596 Accords from the 1994 model year were
stolen, according the National Insurance Crime Bureau. The 1998
Honda Civic was the second most-stolen car, the trade group said
today in a statement. It was the seventh straight year that the
top two spots were filled by cars from the Tokyo-based
manufacturer.  “They’re actually stealing the older cars, because the
safety features that the newer cars have, they’re not there,”
said Joe Brosius, a retired Tempe,  Arizona  police officer who
heads the International Association of Auto Theft Investigators.
“They’re easy to steal, that’s why they’re always No. 1.”  Newer vehicles are equipped with a feature to prevent them
from being started when a key isn’t present, making the cars
harder to hot-wire, Brosius said in a phone interview. Honda
added the technology, which it calls the immobilizer system, to
cars in 1997 and 1998, said  Chris Martin , a spokesman for the
automaker.  “It takes the technology barrier for a thief fairly
high,” Martin said by phone. “They need to be fairly
sophisticated to get around that.”  Ford Motor Co. (F)  full-size pickups from the 2006 model year
were the third-most stolen in 2011, the first time a truck made
the top three in data compiled by the group that goes back to
2000. That’s in part because NICB included more models in the
category, said Frank Scafidi, a bureau spokesman. Ford’s F-
Series, including the F-150 and F-250 pickups, has been the
best-selling line of vehicles in the U.S. for the past 30 years.  New York  The 2000 Honda Civic was the most stolen car in  New York ,
while the 1994 Accord was favored by thieves in  New Jersey  and
the 1997 Accord was the No. 1 target in  Connecticut .  Brosius said crooks often use stolen cars to help them
commit other crimes.  “If you’re going to be selling dope and stuff, robbing
things, doing burglary, any other crime, you’re probably going
to steal a car because you don’t want to use your own,” he
said. “It’s sort of a gateway crime.”  The data used in the NICB report track only the most
popular model year for each car on the top 10 most-stolen list,
so that no vehicle is listed twice. Nationally, U.S. vehicle
thefts dropped 3.3 percent last year to the lowest level since
1967, for eight straight declines, according to preliminary
figures cited by the NICB. The trade group uses data provided by
the  National Crime Information Center , a database of crime
statistics for use by agencies nationwide.  Vehicle-tracking technology, such as  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
OnStar, has helped cut down on car thefts, Scafidi said.  “You’re going to see less and less thefts as a general
statement, just because of the anti-theft technology,” he said.
“It will come to a point where everybody has something on their
smartphone that says your car’s been tweaked.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  