-- London Gets Taste of Brazil at 38th-Floor Sushisamba
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-08-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/london-gets-taste-of-brazil-at-38th-floor-sushisamba.html
Imagine Nobu being located 38 floors
up in the sky, and you start to get the idea of Sushisamba, a
U.S. import that opened in London this month serving Japanese
dishes with a Latin twist atop the  Heron Tower , in Bishopsgate.  There are the glamorous greeters, the cool cocktails, the
modern designs and the crowds of well-dressed people intent on
having a good time, one way or another. The comparison is far
from exact, yet there is a similar feel: It’s where fashion,
food and fun cross paths and sometimes get well acquainted.  (Sushisamba originated on Park Avenue South in  New York  in
1999 and spread to Miami,  Chicago  and  Las Vegas . This is the
first overseas outlet.)  For a slideshow of Sushisamba views, click  here .  The elevator that takes you toward the top of the 230-meter
(755 feet) tower moves even faster than the money leaves your
pocket when you arrive. Most cocktails are priced at 10.50
pounds ($16.50) to 11:50 pounds, which isn’t cheap but isn’t
unreasonable either for somewhere so chic.  The design is bold and beautiful, reflecting the Brazilian
part of Sushisamba, which serves a mix of Japanese, Peruvian and
Brazilian cuisines. There’s a cocktail and sushi bar if you
enter via the 38th floor, plus a terrace with an orange tree.
(Meaning a tree painted orange, not one bearing fruit.)  This floor is also home to the restaurant, with another bar
and a lounge upstairs. (On the top floor is Duck & Waffle, an
eclectic British diner.) At Sushisamba, you may dine indoors or
on the large terrace, weather permitting.  Above Gherkin  The views are outstanding. You look down on most of the
180-meter Gherkin and you can see across to the Olympic Park and
beyond. Sushisamba is worth visiting for this terrace alone. The
screen that separates you from over-familiarity with the street
below is disconcertingly low. If you’re scared of heights,
Sushisamba may be Hitchcockian in the terror it induces.  The menu is divided into small plates, robata, large plates
and Samba rolls and you can eat well. The cooking of chef
Jeffrey Kipp -- formerly of Daylesford Organic,  Gordon Ramsay ,
Citrus -- is replete with big flavors, so even the rolls will
come with an extra hit: some crispy onion here, chive oil there
and maybe a dash of spicy mayo for good measure.  It’s difficult to go wrong with a selection of rolls, such
as the Samba London at 16 pounds ($25) -- crab, tuna, salmon,
yellowtail, prawn, scallop, wagyu, avocado, tempura crunch,
wasabi mayo, aji panca, housemade soy reduction -- or the  Sao
Paulo , which features scallop, masago, red onion, tuna, salmon,
shrimp, yellowtail, avocado, truffle, hacho miso soy and chive
oil.  Rock Shrimp  Among the small plates, the rock shrimp tempura (14 pounds)
tasted great, though it was a tad soggy. I thought I’d better
order some vegetables so I got wild mushrooms from the Robata
and they were full of flavor, thanks in part to the yuzu soy
they come with.  You might also go for black cod with miso and pickled green
apples, or pork yakitori-style meatballs, served with slow-
cooked egg yolk. It’s worth also remembering to order some rice,
assuming a robust appetite that may not be entirely satisfied
with the generally genteel portions.  Among the desserts, watermelon tiradito (Shochu-marinated
watermelon, yuzu sorbet, yoghurt crumble, mint pearls) is
inventive and refreshing. It costs 8 pounds.  As is the way in the floating world, it’s the alcohol that
may push your bill skywards. At Sushisamba, the prices are no
worse than at ground level in the City, where you can generally
drink well or you can drink cheaply. My favorite compromise is
the  2003 Nyetimber Blanc de Blancs , a British sparkling wine, at
59 pounds. ( Decanter  awarded it five stars, and 18.5 out of 20.)  Sushisamba is flawed. The bars get crowded and the service
-- while polite and winning -- gets stretched. It can be noisy
and your view may be blocked by people wanting to take photos.
The management is allowing the terrace to be booked for private
functions, which is annoying if you are not invited.  Yet I can think of few places in  London  I would rather
spend a couple of hours on a sunny day than the large terrace.  The heat is on.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 40 pounds a head for food if you’re not hungry.  Sound level? 70 decibels and rising.  Inside tip? Table 26 is the best table indoors.  Special feature? Room with a view.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Very much so.  Rating? ***.  Sushisamba, 110 Bishopsgate, Heron Tower, London, EC2N 4AY.
Information: +44-20-3640-7330 or
 http://sushisamba.com/LOCATION/LONDON   Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 