-- Lonmin Output at Standstill as Drillers Given Day to Return
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l   a n d   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-08-20T15:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/lonmin-issues-workers-ultimatum-as-government-meets-on-killings.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , wracked by the deadliest
mine-industry violence since apartheid ended, is managing itself
“very carefully” to ensure it doesn’t break rules set by
creditors as output remains halted at its Marikana site.  Production is “at a standstill,” acting Chief Executive
Officer Simon Scott said in a speech near Marikana today. “We
would like to see the operations start ramping up definitely
some time next week,” he said in a separate interview.  Lonmin, the third-biggest platinum producer, said more than
two-thirds of its 28,000 workers, including 83 percent of rock-
drill operators, stayed away today. Lonmin gave striking miners
another day to return to work or face dismissal. About 3,000
drillers started the illegal stoppage on Aug. 10, demanding
higher pay.  The disruption will crimp revenue needed to fund operations
and service debt. Lonmin may have to consider raising $1 billion
by issuing stock to current shareholders, Societe Generale SA
said on Aug. 16. The mine operator, like other South African
producers of the metal, was already grappling with higher wage
and power costs and lower prices.  Police killed 34 people on Aug. 16, firing into a crowd as
they sought to clear a hilltop near the mine. The storming of
the hillside followed clashes between rival labor unions that
resulted in 10 deaths, including two policemen, and a six-day
standoff.  Debt Facilities  Lonmin has debt facilities of $945 million, including $700
million of five-year loans provided by seven banks in May 2011,
it said in its  2011 annual report . The loans are subject to
covenants including a maximum ratio of net debt to earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of 4 times,
and a minimum Ebitda to net interest ratio of 3.5 times.  There is a “very real risk of Lonmin breaking covenants”
if they do not benefit from working capital inflows from drawing
down inventories, UBS AG analysts Ben Davis, Myles Allsop and
Danielle Chigumira wrote in an Aug. 17 report.  With each day of  strike action , Lonmin is losing about
2,500 ounces of platinum, used in jewelry and auto catalysts,
and an estimated $3 million, Absa Capital said the same day.  Lonmin fell 4.6 percent to 610 pence by the close in
 London , taking its drop since the strike started to 19 percent.  “Everybody in the  mining industry  is on high alert,”
Martin Prinsloo, chief financial officer at Johannesburg-based
 Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. (RBP) , said by phone from the city today.
The company operates mines in the same area as Lonmin. “We’ve
already seen some effect” on the platinum price, he said.
“It’s a very high price to pay to get the price up.”  Amplats Concern  Platinum surged 5.3 percent last week, the biggest weekly
gain since the five days through Jan. 27, on expectations the
violence in  South Africa , which accounts for three-quarters of
world output of the metal, will reduce a surplus. The metal rose
1.1 percent to $1,490.49 by 4:40 p.m. in London.  “The situation in South Africa is unlikely to be resolved
swiftly, and will probably continue for the next six to eight
weeks,” UBS wrote in a note today. “Platinum is also pricing
in the increasing likelihood of contagion, with market focus now
shifting to Amplats,” as  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  is known,
it said. “The current strength in platinum prices is reflective
of growing concerns that the company might be next.”  Amplats is the world’s biggest producer of the metal,
followed by  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)   Earlier this year, fighting between union members at
Impala’s operation near Marikana led to the closure of the
world’s largest platinum mine for six weeks and four fatalities.  Government Investigations  “Given the severity of the unrest at Marikana over the
past week, we think it is likely that Lonmin will lose 50,000
ounces, or three weeks of production, as a minimum,” Deutsche
Bank AG said in a note. That’s about $74 million at today’s
prices. There’s a “strong likelihood” Lonmin will issue
shareholders the right to buy more stock, the bank said.  A committee appointed by South African President  Jacob Zuma 
to assist the families of those who died in the police shootings
met for the first time today.  Minister in the Presidency Collins Chabane led the
committee, which met in Rustenburg, about 120 kilometers (75
miles) northwest of Johannesburg, the presidency said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. It includes ministers from the
departments of mining, police, social development, labor and
state security.  The members and terms of reference of a judicial commission
of inquiry into the Marikana killings will be announced in the
next few days, it said.  The government, mining companies and labor unions will form
a separate group to investigate how to improve conditions in the
platinum industry, the South African Press Association reported
Aug. 18, citing Mines Minister Susan Shabangu.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net ;
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  