-- Montoro Blocks Spanish Power Tax as Conflict Question Rejected
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-08-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/montoro-blocks-spanish-power-tax-as-conflict-question-rejected.html
Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro is blocking a proposal to raise taxes on solar-power
producers, a move he said doesn’t represent a conflict of
interests with his brother’s lobbying firm.  While his brother and the brother of his chief of staff run
a lobbying group that advises energy firms, Montoro said there’s
no conflict as government discussions on the issue have been
informal. The minister said in an Aug. 16 telephone interview
he’ll stop the plan announced in July by Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria to use taxes to claw back solar subsidies on the
grounds that it breaches European law.  “Until I decide, this isn’t going forward, whoever
announces it,” Montoro, 62, said. “This conflict you’re
analyzing doesn’t exist because there isn’t an energy tax policy
that we have changed: we’ve talked about it, but a policy hasn’t
been decided.”  A  Spanish law  from 2006 says ministers and senior officials
should recuse themselves from any issues affecting companies
that members of their family have either managed or advised.  The clash over energy subsidies, which made  Spain  the
world’s biggest buyer of solar panels in 2008, has opened a rift
in Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s cabinet as he struggles to
avoid an international bailout. The issue may undermine Rajoy’s
efforts to persuade voters to accept the deepest budget cuts on
record and overcome growing distrust of politicians.  Sensitive Opinion  “Public opinion is very sensitive to anything that could
look like an abuse of power and so you have to be particularly
scrupulous,” said Jose Ramon Pin, a member of the ruling
People’s Party and Professor of Governance and Leadership in
Public Administration at IESE business school in  Madrid . “This
may give people the impression there’s a conflict of interest.”  Montoro said the 2006 law is not relevant to his case and
he has been pushing for greater transparency in the government.  “From a legal point of view, this probably can’t be seen a
conflict of interest,” Pin said. “The problem in Spain is that
this lobbying should be regulated to improve transparency.”  Industry Minister Soria  said last month  he planned to set
varying tax rates for power producers to curb aid to renewable
plants. That aid accounts for most of the 94 billion euros ($116
billion) of subsidies and state guarantees pledged to the
broader power industry.  Curbing Aid  Cristobal Montoro set up lobby firm Equipo Economico SL in
2006, taking 30 percent of the shares, according to filings with
Spain’s companies register. He sold his stake in 2008 when he
returned to national politics, he said. Solar operators
including  Abengoa SA (ABG)  are clients of Equipo Economico, said an
official at the lobbyist who declined to be named in line with
company practice.  His sociology professor brother, Ricardo, confirmed in an
e-mail he is a partner owning almost 15 percent of the firm.
Ricardo Martinez Rico, brother of Montoro’s chief of staff
Felipe, is chairman, the filings show.  Ricardo Montoro, 59, said the lobbying company is
scrupulous to avoid conflicts. He produces reports on politics
and elections and doesn’t work directly with energy companies,
he said.  Ricardo Martinez Rico was not available to comment, his
spokeswoman said, adding he was meticulous in avoiding
inappropriate discussions with the minister. Requests to speak
to Felipe Martinez Rico were referred to the budget minister.  El Economista newspaper last month reported the lobby
firm’s links to Abengoa and said Montoro clashed with the
Industry Ministry over solar taxes.  Still Negative  “Because it wasn’t a law being produced by the Budget
Ministry, there’s no conflict” under Spanish law, said Jesus
Sanchez Lambas, general secretary in Spain of  Transparency
International , which monitors standards in politics and
business. “Of course, our view of this would still be
negative.”  Spanish energy companies often recruit former politicians.
 Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS)  has former Prime Minister  Felipe Gonzalez  on
its board while  Endesa SA (ELE) ’s owner  Enel SpA (ENEL)  has former Finance
Minister Pedro Solbes.  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  has former Interior Minister
Angel Acebes on its board.  Proposals to overhaul the energy market have divided the
power industry as well as the government. Power companies like
Iberdrola SA and Endesa SA, where Economy Minister Luis de Guindos was a  board member  until December, would benefit from
Soria’s plan that placed more of the cost reductions on clean-
power producers. They have been publicly pressing the government
to cut subsidies for at least two years.  Recruiting  An economy ministry official declined to comment on de
Guindos’s role in the energy debate.  When Montoro founded the lobbying and advisory firm, then
called Montoro & Asociados Asesores SL, in June 2006, he
recruited people who’d worked for him or alongside him during
his previous term in government, company filings show. The
chairman, Ricardo Martinez Rico, served as deputy budget
minister to Montoro in 2003 and 2004. De Guindos was a minor
shareholder and has since sold his stake.  Montoro said in the interview he still reads the firm’s
research and discusses the broad challenges facing the Spanish
economy with Ricardo Martinez Rico. Montoro said he never asked
the government’s Office for Conflicts of Interests to examine
his links to the firm because it wasn’t necessary and, as the
office is part of his ministry, people would question the
independence of any findings.  Family Tie  Abengoa, the biggest recipient of subsidies for solar-
thermal power, has the most visible links with the Budget
Ministry. As well as being a client of the lobbying firm, the
Seville-based engineering firm named Ricardo Martinez Rico to
its board last year, stock-market filings show.  Another family tie was represented by Carlos Sebastian, the
brother of former Industry Minister Miguel Sebastian. Abengoa
announced his resignation from the board in February. Miguel
Sebastian was in office from April 2008 until  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero ’s government lost power at the end of last
year.  An Abengoa official who asked not to be named in line with
corporate practice declined to say whether the company is a
client of Equipo Economico or to comment on the company’s
approach to building links with policymakers.  “They are managing the diplomatic channels,” said Tomas Diaz, a spokesman for the UNEF photovoltaic industry lobby.
“They have influential people in their board. It’s a normal
practice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  