-- Tony Scott, ‘Top Gun’ Director, Dead in Jump From Bridge
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2012-08-21T03:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/tony-scott-top-gun-director-dead-in-jump-from-bridge.html
Tony Scott, the director of “Top
Gun” and production partner of brother Ridley Scott, died
yesterday after jumping from a bridge near the ports of  Los
Angeles  and  Long Beach  in  California . He was 68.  Authorities found a note in the car Scott drove onto the
bridge, Los Angeles County Coroner Lt. Joe Bale said in an
interview. He jumped around 12:30 p.m. local time yesterday and
his body was retrieved about 3 p.m., Bale said.  “At this point, we are investigating this as a suicide,”
Bale said. “There is nothing to lead us to believe otherwise.”  British-born Scott is best known for directing “Top Gun,”
the 1986 movie that stars  Tom Cruise  as a daredevil naval
aviator who attends an elite flight school. His directing
credits also include “Man on Fire” and 2009’s “The Taking of
Pelham 1 2 3.” He was a partner with his older brother in Scott
Free Productions, which makes television’s “The Good Wife,” a
legal drama on CBS, and dozens of films, according to Imdb.com.  “The family asks that their privacy be respected at this
time,” his publicist, Simon Halls, said in an e-mail.  Scott jumped from the Vincent Thomas Bridge, according to
Bale, a 1,500-foot-long suspension bridge that crosses Los
Angeles Harbor, linking the San Pedro section of Los Angeles
with Terminal Island and the Port of Long Beach. The bridge is
about 185 feet above the navigation channel.  Cancer Report  ABC News reported today that the director had inoperable
 brain cancer , citing a source close to the family. Scott’s
family was unaware of any such illness, the network’s website
 reported  later, citing an interview with Ed Winter, an official
with the county coroner’s office, by its Los Angeles station.  Halls, Scott’s spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mailed
request for comment on the report sent by Bloomberg News.  Scott left a suicide note at his office and a second note
in his car with a list of people to contact, Winter, the
coroner’s office assistant chief for investigations, said in an
interview with Bloomberg News. An autopsy was planned today, he
said.  ‘Top Gun 2’  The  Hollywood Reporter  said in April that Scott would
direct “Top Gun 2,” with Cruise reprising his role as Maverick
and  Jerry Bruckheimer  repeating as producer, citing Paramount
Pictures executive Adam Goodman. Cruise toured a Naval Air
Station near Fallon,  Nevada , last week preparing to film the
sequel, local television station KOLO-TV reported on its website
Aug. 17.  “Tony was my dear friend and I will really miss him,”
Cruise said in a statement posted to his Twitter account. “He
was a creative visionary whose mark on film is immeasurable.”  Anthony David Scott was born on June 21, 1944, in North
Shields,  England , an industrial coastal town in the northeast
part of the country, according to Imdb. At 16, he starred in
“Boy and Bicycle,” the first filmmaking effort of his brother
Ridley, seven years his elder, according to the website.  TV Commercials  After graduating from the Royal College of Art in  London ,
Scott directed thousands of television commercials, mostly
working for  Ridley Scott , according to Imdb.  Tony Scott’s first feature film, “The Hunger,” was a
critical and commercial disappointment. He waited three years to
direct “Top Gun,” which cemented Cruise’s status as a major
star and established Scott as a director known for exquisitely
choreographed action. He went on to make movies including
“Crimson Tide” in 1995, “Enemy of the State” in 1998 and
“Man on Fire” in 2004.  Scott Free, the brothers’ London-based production company,
lists more than 30 movie credits, including 2010’s “Cyrus” and
“American Gangster,” directed by Ridley Scott and starring
 Denzel Washington , another actor often cast by Tony Scott.  Projects Planned  Tony Scott had more than 30 projects in development, mostly
as producer, according to Imdb. His unexpected death comes with
several directing projects in the works. In addition to “Top
Gun 2,” those include “Narco Sub,” a nuclear thriller
scheduled for release in 2013 by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s 20th Century Fox,
“Emma’s War,” about a British aid worker in  Sudan , and
“Hell’s Angels,” about the motorcycle gang, according to the
website.  Twice divorced, Scott married his current wife, actress
Donna W. Scott, in 1994. The couple has two children, according
to Imdb.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  