-- Moore Said to Hire Currency Specialist Hull From Brevan Howard
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-08-20T12:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/moore-said-to-hire-currency-specialist-hull-from-brevan-howard.html
Moore Capital Management LLC, the
hedge fund founded by Louis Moore Bacon, hired  Stephen Hull  from
Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, said a person with knowledge
of the matter.  Hull is based in London, said the person who asked not to
be identified because the company is private. Brevan Howard
hired Hull last year from  Morgan Stanley (MS) , where he was head of
global foreign exchange strategy in London. He started at
Moore’s European unit on Aug. 1, according to the U.K. Financial
Services Authority’s register.  Bacon said this month that the European sovereign debt
crisis is making it harder to find profitable trades in currency
and debt markets and he will return $2 billion of capital to
investors. Assets are valued more on their ability to withstand
a “disaster” then how much they may yield or earn, he told
investors in a letter. Hull declined to comment, as did
officials at Moore and  Brevan Howard .  Moore, which manages $15 billion, and London-based Brevan
Howard, are macro  hedge funds  that trade currencies, bonds,
commodities based on global economic trends. Macro hedge funds
declined 1.9 percent on average during the first seven months of
2012, trailing the broader industry benchmark, which has gained
1.9 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bacon, 56, is returning capital to investors from his $8
billion Moore Global Investments fund, which has gained more
than 18 percent a year since he started it in 1989. Each time
Bacon has previously given money back to clients, his
performance has improved. Brevan Howard, started in 2002 by  Alan
Howard  and four other former Credit Suisse fixed-income traders,
managed $36.7 billion as of the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  