-- Google, Oracle, Spotify, Apple: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-20T10:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/oracle-spotify-heinz-coldwell-banker-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  said it didn’t pay
people to write about  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s lawsuit against it over
Android software, although nonprofits, universities and trade
groups receiving Google money have commented on the case.  Oracle said Google maintains a network of direct and
indirect “influencers” to advance its  intellectual property 
agenda, according to an Aug. 17 filing in federal court in San
Francisco. Oracle has hired one writer, Florian Mueller, author
of the FOSS Patents blog, as a consultant, not to blog about the
lawsuit, Oracle said. Mueller has written extensively on the
lawsuit.  Both companies filed papers in court Aug. 17 responding to
a judge’s order to disclose payments to journalists, bloggers
and commenters. U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who has
presided over the lawsuit, said Aug. 7 that disclosure is needed
to make clear whether anything written about the case is
“possibly influenced by financial relationships to the parties
or counsel.”  Google said there were no quid-pro-quo payments to people
for coverage, and commentators at entities which receive
donations or financial support from Google weren’t paid to write
about the case.  “Google does not believe that individuals or organizations
within these categories were intended to be encompassed within
the scope of the court’s order,” Google lawyers said in the
filing. They asked Alsup to let them know if he wants a “more
comprehensive list.”  A jury found May 7 that  Mountain View , California-based
Google, owner of the world’s most-popular search engine,
infringed Oracle’s copyrights when it developed Android software
for mobile devices yet deadlocked on whether the copying was
“fair use.” That denied Oracle the ability to seek as much as
$1 billion in damages from the search engine company. The jury
found May 23 that Google didn’t infringe two Oracle patents.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  Apple Witness Claims Samsung Abused Its ‘Monopoly’ Over Patents  Samsung Electronics Co. used “monopoly power” to make
exorbitant licensing demands of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over two patents the
South Korean company accuses the iPhone maker of infringing, a
witness told a jury.  Janusz Ordover, a New York University economics professor,
said Samsung “distorted” the process through which a standard-
setting body in Europe set industry requirements based on its
wireless-technology patents. Ordover testified Aug. 17 at the
end of a three-week-long intellectual-property trial in San
Jose, California.  Ordover, hired by Apple as an expert witness, said Samsung
“acted in a way that evidences it has gained monopoly power by
making licensing demands to Apple that are inconsistent” with
reduced licensing rates required of patents used by the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute to set technological
requirements.  Samsung has declared the patents “essential” and is
seeking as much as $399 million in royalties from Apple for
infringing them, according to court testimony.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, sued Samsung in
April 2011, accusing it of copying patented designs for mobile
devices, and Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung countersued.  Testimony concluded Aug. 17 at the trial. U.S. District
Judge Lucy Koh limited each side to 25 hours and Samsung told
the court that it declined to cross-examine Ordover because of
the time constraints.  Koh said she aims to finish with jury instruction arguments
by the end of today and to have the companies present closing
arguments tomorrow.  The case is the first to go before a federal jury in a
battle being waged on four continents for dominance in a
smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries at
$219.1 billion.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  Spotify Sued by Nonend Inventions Over Music-Sharing Patents  Spotify Ltd. was sued by Nonend Inventions NV over
technology that allows Spotify users to get music from the
streaming service and other subscribers.  Netherlands-based Nonend accuses Spotify of “making,
using, offering to sell, and selling streaming music services to
users which incorporate methodologies that infringe one or more
claims” of certain patents, according to court papers filed in
federal court in Delaware.  Closely held Spotify said in November it had 10 million
registered users worldwide, and 3 million paying subscribers.
Spotify said July 31 that 5 million more subscribers signed up
for its ad-supported music service since January, with expansion
into countries including Australia and New Zealand.  Spotify has content agreements with  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Sony
Music,  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music,  EMI Group (EMIS)  and Warner Music
Group. Under those agreements, artists,  record companies  and
publishers receive a cut of ad sales and subscriber fees.  Graham James, spokesman for Spotify, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment about the lawsuit.  The case is Nonend Inventions NV v. Spotify USA Inc., 1:12-
cv-01041, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Heinz Sued Over Patent for Single-Serve Ketchup Packaging  H.L. Heinz Co. (HNZ) , the Pittsburgh-based food company, was sued
for patent infringement by an Illinois inventor.  Scott Alan White, in a suit filed in federal court in
Chicago, said he invented a container to be used for condiments
and made a presentation to Heinz, suggesting the company use the
product for individual-serving ketchup packages.  He filed a patent application in October 2005, before his
initial contact with the food company in July 2006, according to
court papers.  Heinz said it wasn’t interested, and, told him his
invention wasn’t patentable, White said. White continued in his
efforts to seek a patent, which was issued July 31 as patent
8,231,026, according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  After Heinz’s rejection of his design, White said he was
surprised when Heinz began promoting single-serving ketchup in
its “Dip’ & Squeeze” package, even featuring it on the cover
of the food company’s 2012 annual report. The “Dip & Squeeze”
packaging violates multiple claims of his patent, White said in
his pleadings.  He claims he’s damaged by Heinz’s alleged infringement, and
asked the court for an order barring further infringement.
Additionally, he seeks awards of money damages, and asked they
be tripled to punish the food company for its actions.  Heinz spokesman  Michael Mullen  characterized the case as a
“frivolous lawsuit,” and said the company will prove that the
allegations are “groundless and without merit.” The company
“worked for years’” to develop the “Dip & Squeeze” package,
he said.  The case is Scott Alan White V. H.J. Heinz Co., 1:12-
cv-06074, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  For more patent news, click here.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Coldwell Banker Infringed Architectural Renderings’ Copyright  Coldwell Banker Residential Real Estate and Sard Custom
Homes LLC, a Connecticut home builder, infringed an architecture
firm’s copyrights by making unauthorized use of architectural
renderings, a federal appeals court ruled Aug. 15.  Although Prudential Connecticut Reality is also listed as a
defendant, according to a footnote in the court opinion, the
issues pursued in the appeal do not involve matters that were
litigated by Prudential on the trial court level. The court said
Prudential didn’t participate in the appeal “although it
remains technically a party.”  The U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York reversed a
lower court ruling that no infringement occurred because the
renderings weren’t sufficiently detailed to enable construction
of houses based on them.  Scholz Design Inc. of Toledo, Ohio, filed the infringement
suit in federal court in New Haven, Connecticut, in October
2012, saying the unauthorized use of the renderings for
marketing and advertising constituted copyright infringement. In
July 2011 that court granted all three motions to dismiss the
case, saying the drawings weren’t sufficiently detailed to
warrant copyright protection.  The appeals court disagreed, noting that “copyright
protection of a pictorial work, whether depicting a house, or a
flower, or a donkey, or an abstract design, does not depend on
any degree of detail.” The court said it saw “no reason” why
the renderings should be treated differently from any other
pictorial work for copyright purposes.  Although paintings by  Claude Monet  of the Rouen Cathedral,
and by Andrew Wyeth and  Edward Hopper  of houses weren’t
sufficiently detailed to enable construction of the buildings
they depicted, that lack of detail wouldn’t justify the denial
of copyright protection, the court said.  Instead, all that is required is “independent creation and
originality,” and the renderings qualified, the court ruled.  The court vacated the lower court’s dismissal of the
infringement claim and of a breach-of-contract claim made by
Scholz. It also awarded litigation costs to the architectural
firm.  The appeals court case is Scholz Design Inc. v. Sard Custom
Homes, 11-3291,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit.
The lower court case is Scholz Design Inc. v. Sard Custom Homes
LLC, 3:10-cv-01681-JBA, U.S. District Court, District of
Connecticut (New Haven).  MTN Group Responds to Politician’s Ringtone Infringement Suit  MTN Group (MTN)  has responded to a copyright suit by the former
mayor of Kampala, Uganda, by saying its use of recordings of his
speeches doesn’t infringe, according to the AllAfrica.dom
website.  The Cresta, South Africa-based telecommunication company is
arguing that while it’s Al Haji Nasser Ntege Sebaggala’s voice
on the ringtones, he isn’t the author of the recording and
ringtones, since they were “fine-tuned” into transferable
material, AllAfrica.com reported.  The recordings are the product of the engineer who shaped
the raw speech, the telecom company said, according to
AllAfrica.com.  Sebaggala, who filed the infringement suit in July, is
demanding the proceeds MTN realized from selling the ringtones,
which the company makes available to telephone users for a 30-
day period for 500 Ugandan shillings ($.20), AllAfrica.com
reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  CBS Drops Infringement Suit Against ABC Over ‘Glass House’  CBS Corp. (CBS)  dropped a lawsuit alleging that “The Glass
House,” an ABC network reality television show, is a copy of
CBS’s “ Big Brother ,” according to a court filing.  CBS, based in New York, sued Burbank, California-based  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC in May, alleging that “The Glass House”
infringed on its own reality series, in which a group of
contestants spend months secluded in a house, evicting one
another on camera.  CBS filed a notice of voluntary dismissal in federal court
in Los Angeles yesterday. The broadcaster said in a statement
that it reserved the right to re-file its claim.  “The viewers have spoken and delivered the ultimate form
of justice against ‘The Glass House,’” CBS said in the
statement. In the week ended Aug. 12, “The Glass House” ranked
87th among broadcast shows in TV ratings based on viewers, with
an audience of 1.59 million, according to Nielsen data.  U.S. District Judge Gary Feess in June denied CBS’s request
to block the ABC show, saying that he wasn’t convinced CBS would
prevail in its copyright suit. The harm to ABC and the people
working on “Glass House” caused by stopping the show would
outweigh the harm to CBS from allowing it to air, he said.  Two former supervising producers and a former co-executive
producer of “Big Brother” plus 16 other ex-producers and
series staff are working on “Glass House” and disclosed CBS
trade secrets and confidential information in violation of
nondisclosure agreements, CBS said in its complaint.  CBS said the contract and trade-secrets claims against the
ex-producers will continue in arbitration.  Representatives of ABC didn’t immediately respond to e-
mailed requests for comment on the dismissal.  The case is CBS v. ABC, 12-4073, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 