-- Organoid Seen Cutting Drug Cost With Lab Mini-Intestine
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-08-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/organoid-seen-cutting-drug-cost-with-lab-mini-intestine.html
In a lab at  Johns Hopkins  University
School of Medicine in Baltimore, a blob of human tissue designed
to mimic the properties of an intestine swells with fluid as
scientists try to bring on symptoms associated with a bout of
diarrhea.  It’s the first step to determine whether the structure,
known as an organoid, can be used to test treatments for this
ailment, which the  World Health Organization  says kills about
1.5 million children a year. The work is one of several similar
efforts nationwide that are part of a push to make early product
testing cheaper, faster and less prone to failure for  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and other drugmakers. The technology may one
day help them spot drug reactions within days, or even hours,
said  Mark Donowitz , the Johns Hopkins research leader.  “That would speed the delivery of new medicines to
patients that need them,” Kathy Hudson, acting deputy director
of the  National Institutes of Health  unit funding the research,
said in a telephone interview.  The Johns Hopkins scientists are set to report their
findings at a meeting of the  American Gastroenterological
Association  next week in  Chicago , Donowitz said in an interview
at his lab. While that research is among the most advanced being
done in the U.S., more is coming.  Hudson’s Bethesda, Maryland-based  unit , the National Center
for Advancing Translational Sciences, last month said it was
handing out $13 million in  grants  to  17 research organizations .
The  NIH , part of the  U.S. Department of Health , is the world’s
biggest source of funding for medical research, according to the
agency’s website.  Chip Technology  The money is part of a five-year, $70 million NIH effort to
expand drug-testing methodology using organoids and a similar
technology that fuses human cells, designed to function like
organs, onto clear silicon chips. The chips, about the size of a
quarter, would be easy to collect and work with.  In addition to moving the drug development process along
more quickly, the new technology may be more accurate, according
to Hudson. About 30 percent of drug compounds that had promising
results in tests on animals fail in human trials because of
potential safety risks, she said.  “If companies are better able to get signals of toxicity
early and abandon toxic compounds early, that then saves them
money,” Hudson said.  Pfizer, based in  New York ,  spent  $9.11 billion on research
and development last year.  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based
Merck’s R&D expenses were $8.4 billion.  Roche Experiment  Some pharmaceutical companies have already begun exploring
the use of human tissue grown in the laboratory for testing
purposes.  In 2010, for instance, researchers at Basel, Switzerland-
based  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  used stem cells to confirm toxicity from
an antiviral medication the company had been developing. Roche
had already abandoned the drug two years earlier after tests in
rodents and rabbits showed it caused side effects in the heart.
Had stem cell-derived heart tissue been available then, the
company could have pulled the plug early, saving two years of
work and millions of dollars.  The NIH isn’t the only U.S. agency pushing the new
technology. The  Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency , the
military’s research arm, has given  Harvard University’s Wyss
Institute  in  Boston  $37 million to develop a way to integrate 10
organs-on-a-chip to mirror the complexity of the human body, the
institute said in  a July 24 announcement .  Cell Channels  The Harvard program is led by Donald Ingber, the
institute’s founding director. It is developing coin-sized chips
with channels carved into them that are filled with human cells,
as well as tiny pumps and other mechanical elements, to
replicate how organs work at the cellular level.  For instance, the chips attempting to replicate the body’s
ability to breathe carry both lung and capillary cells,
separated by a porous membrane that has air on one side and
blood on the other.  Drugmakers, especially those open to “scientific risk-
taking and pushing the envelope a little bit, will be standing
in line waiting to try these things,” said Bob Chapin, a senior
research fellow for Pfizer who tests for toxicity in the
earliest stages of drug studies.  “I’ll be one of the people clamoring to try a beta
version,” said Chapin, who said he was speaking for himself,
and not on behalf of his company.  Diarrhea Victory  The organoid at Johns Hopkins was derived from human  stem
cells . When scientists elevated levels of metabolic regulators
in the tiny intestine that affect sodium absorption and chloride
secretion, water accumulated in its cavity and it expanded. This
is essentially what happens when a person has diarrhea, proving
the organoid is functional, the researchers said.  “This kind of preliminary data is convincing and lets the
NIH know we’re not wasting the American dollar,” said Donowitz,
the lead researcher.  The eventual goal is to use the organoid to test potential
treatments for diarrhea. In the U.S., one-third of acute cases
are food-borne illnesses and the remainder related to viruses or
bacteria, Donowitz said. There are about 2 billion cases of
diarrhea a year globally, and the disease is the second-biggest
killer of children under five, the  WHO says .  The biggest benefit of the work may be the small amount of
compound needed to conduct a trial versus rodent studies,
Pfizer’s Chapin said. Early studies require 50 to 100 rats per
molecule and potentially hundreds of grams of compound for
testing, he said.  In contrast, researchers might need about 3 milligrams of a
compound to test on a cell culture.  While it will probably be a while before the first
organoids and cell chips are used to test pipeline products,
Chapin said he’s looking forward to the opportunity.  “The sooner the better,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  