-- Los Angeles Gasoline Climbs After Tesoro Oil Refinery Unit Trips
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-08-20T19:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/los-angeles-gasoline-climbs-after-tesoro-oil-refinery-unit-trips.html
Spot gasoline in  Los Angeles  gained
against futures for the first time in seven days after  Tesoro
Corp. (TSO) ’s Southern California refinery reported a unit trip.  The unit at the 97,000-barrel-a-day Los Angeles plant in
Wilmington went offline Aug. 18 after a “third party equipment
issue,” Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at Tesoro’s headquarters in
San Antonio, said by e-mail yesterday. She didn’t respond to e-
mails asking whether the upset was related to a breakdown at Air
Products and Chemicals Inc.’s Carson plant, which delivers
hydrogen to refineries nearby.  California-blend gasoline in Los Angeles gained 1.5 cents
to 3 cents a gallon above futures traded on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange at 1:35 p.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel’s premium had narrowed for
six days on speculation that  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  would run units at
the Richmond refinery off feedstock delivered by tanker after an
Aug. 6 fire shut the crude unit.  Air Products’ Carson hydrogen plant reported a breakdown at
3 p.m. local time Aug. 18, less than an hour before Tesoro
reported the unit trip at the Los Angeles refinery. The hydrogen
plant is scheduled to flare until midnight tomorrow because of
the breakdown, a notice to the  South Coast Air Quality
Management District  showed.  Art George, an Air Products spokesman at the company’s
headquarters in Allentown,  Pennsylvania , didn’t respond to a
request e-mailed yesterday for comment on the malfunction.  San Francisco  California-blend gasoline in  San Francisco  also rose 1.5
cents to 13 cents a gallon over futures. The fuel’s premium is
down 67 percent from this month’s peak of 39 cents a gallon
versus futures on Aug. 9.  Chevron’s 240,000-barrel-a-day Richmond refinery is
scheduled to export a cargo of base oil to Brazil this week. Two
other tankers are signaling for the refinery, which shut its
only crude unit following the Aug. 6 blaze, ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg shows.  At least four tankers sailed last week to Richmond from
Italy, Japan, Argentina and Algeria, carrying cargoes including
vacuum gasoil and  fuel oil  that can help the plant keep running
while one of its crude units is damaged.  “Chevron’s reaction here, to scour the market for
feedstock cargoes to keep the refinery running, illustrates
their determination to supply the market,”  David Hackett , the
president of Stillwater Associates, an independent fuel
consultant in Irvine, California, said by e-mail. “Clearly, the
market is comfortable that gasoline supplies are adequate.”  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in San Francisco was
unchanged at 24 cents a gallon over Nymex heating oil futures.
The same fuel in Los Angeles was steady at 18 cents a gallon
above futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland , Oregon,
remained at a premium of 21.5 cents a gallon against gasoline
futures. Low-sulfur diesel’s premium in Portland held at 33.5
cents above heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  