-- Most Asia Stocks Drop on Concern China Won’t Ease Policy
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-08-20T10:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/most-asian-stocks-rise-on-u-s-confidence-data-ecb-plan.html
Most Asian  stocks  fell as concern
that China won’t ease monetary policy even amid slowing economic
growth and lower earnings offset optimism for the global outlook
after U.S.  consumer confidence  improved.  China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co. (2601) , the nation’s third-
largest insurer, slid 1.2 percent in Hong Kong after its profit
slumped. Country Garden Holdings Co., a Chinese builder of
apartments, fell 1.1 percent as rising house prices sparked
concern China will tighten property curbs. LG Innotek, a
cellular phone parts maker, climbed 6.1 percent in Seoul after a
report that sales of its camera modules will grow.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slid 0.1 percent to 120.67 as
of 7:34 p.m. in Tokyo, with eight stocks falling for every seven
that rose. China has no intention of cutting banks’ reserve
requirements in the short term, as suggested by a cash injection
last week, according to a weekend commentary in the central bank
newspaper Financial News.  “ China  is still trying to bottom out,” said Khiem Do, the
Hong Kong-based head of Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring
Asset Management ( Asia ) Ltd., which oversees about $8 billion.
Earnings in Asia “have mostly surprised on the downside rather
than the upside. They’ve mostly been fairly disappointing. U.S.
surprises tend to be the driver of equity markets around the
world.”  Of the 429 companies in the Asia-Pacific index that have
 reported quarterly earnings  since July 1, and for which
Bloomberg has estimates, about 55 percent have failed to meet
projections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure completed a third straight week of advance last week,
the longest streak since March, amid optimism policy makers
would take more measures to promote growth.  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.1 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index was little changed, while  Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  fell 0.1 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.1 percent and China’s
 Shanghai  Composite Index declined 0.4 percent.  Markets in Singapore, Indonesia,  Philippines  and  Malaysia 
are shut for holidays.  The Asian regional benchmark index, which includes
companies from emerging countries, retreated 6.4 percent from a
Feb. 29 high through last week amid concern  China’s economy  is
slowing and Europe’s debt crisis is deepening. Stocks on the
measure were valued at 12.6 times estimated earnings on average,
compared with 13.7 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
11.7 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer Confidence  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The underlying gauge is less than one point away
from a four-year peak of 1,419.04 set on April 2. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  last week added 67.25 points, or 0.5 percent,
to 13,275.20. On the last day of trading, it touched the highest
level since December 2007.  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly improved in
August, boosting the prospect of stronger household spending
this quarter, according to Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment.  Europe’s leaders meet this week to discuss ways to combat
the region’s debt crisis.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also
heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, will discuss a
request by Greece Prime Minister Antonis Samaras for a two-year
extension to the indebted nation’s fiscal adjustment program
when he visits  Athens  on Aug. 22. Samaras travels to Berlin and
Paris on Aug. 24 and 25 after French President  Francois Hollande 
and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  meet in the German capital
on Aug. 23.  Home Prices  In China, new-home prices climbed in July from a month
earlier in 49 of 70 cities tracked by the government, the
National Bureau of Statistics said on its website on Aug. 18.
That was the most since May last year and compared with 25
cities in June.  “A rebound in property prices is bad for the economy as
the government will refrain from conducting further policy
easing,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities
Co. in Shanghai. “Investor sentiment is bad and the market will
test new lows.”  Country Garden fell 1.1 percent to HK$2.71 in Hong Kong,
while Guangzhou R&F Properties Ltd., a developer in the southern
Chinese city, retreated 2.1 percent to HK$9.15.  China Pacific Insurance fell 1.2 percent to HK$24.90 in
Hong Kong after saying its first-half profit slumped 55 percent
from a year earlier as investment income fell and premiums
expansion slowed.  Rare Earths  Lynas Corp., an Australian miner of rare-earth minerals,
slumped 6.7 percent to 70 Australian cents in Sydney after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its rating on the stock to neutral from
overweight.  China’s rare-earth producers also fell after China
Securities Journal reported the government is studying a price-
based resource tax on the mineral and may raise the levy.  Inner
Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co. (600111) , China’s biggest
producer of rare earths, slid 1.7 percent to 37  yuan  in
Shanghai.  Sharp Corp., Japan’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal
displays, fell 5.4 percent to 174 yen after the Mainichi
newspaper reported the company may cut 10,000 jobs, or about 20
percent of its workforce, without citing anyone. Sharp isn’t
considering additional job cuts, Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman,
said today.  Among stocks that rose, LG Innotek climbed 6.1 percent to
95,400 won in Seoul. Taurus Investment said sales at Innotek’s
camera module division will rise to 401 billion won ($354
million) in the third quarter and 470 billion won in the fourth,
compared with 328 billion won in the second quarter, as clients
roll out new mobile phone models.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  