-- Most Afghan Insider Attacks Aren’t Taliban, Pentagon Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-08-20T17:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/most-afghan-insider-attacks-aren-t-taliban-pentagon-says.html
The “vast majority” of insider
attacks by Afghan forces against U.S. and allied troops stem
from “disgruntled individuals” and not Taliban insurgents,
Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said.  While coalition forces have improved vetting procedures for
admitting Afghans into the country’s growing army, “it’s not
always possible to read the minds of other people,” Little told
reporters at a Pentagon briefing today.  Attacks from inside the Afghan security forces against
coalition troops jumped to 10 this month, up from four in July
and two in June, Lieutenant Colonel Hagen Messer, a spokesman
for the International Security Assistance Force Joint Command,
said today in a phone interview from Kabul. There have been 32
insider attacks this year that killed 40 coalition troops, he
said.  “These insider attacks are a dagger in the heart of the
U.S. mission,” David Cortright, director of policy studies at
the  University of Notre Dame ’s Kroc Institute for International
Peace Studies, said today in a statement. “They strike at the
core strategy of training Afghan forces to replace our troops.
If we cannot trust the troops we are recruiting, how can the
mission succeed?”  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  called Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai  over the weekend “to share his concern about
recent insider attacks” and to “explore ways to work even more
closely together,” Little said. Army General Martin Dempsey,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, met with allied and
Afghan commanders today in Kabul to discuss the war and the
attacks.  ‘False Distinction’  Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington who has advised a number
of U.S. administrations, said it is misleading and irrelevant to
draw a distinction between insider attacks planned by the
Taliban and those undertaken by Afghans influenced by the
constant barrage of jihadist propaganda from the Taliban.  “It’s a false distinction,” Cordesman said today in a
phone interview. “Most of the young men in  Afghanistan  are
caught up in a climate where inevitably they’re going to hear
insurgent complaints about the U.S. presence, calls for jihad.”  The U.S. has taken new steps to guard against the
increasing insider attacks, including a greater “intelligence
presence” in the field to gather information on potential
threats, Panetta said in an Aug. 14 Pentagon briefing.  ‘Guardian Angels’  The Pentagon also created a “guardian angel” program that
designates one individual “who stands to the side so that he
can watch people’s backs and hopefully identify people that
would be involved in those attacks,” Panetta said.  Afghan security ministries have adopted more “rigorous
vetting procedures” for Afghans seeking to join the security
forces, Little said.  While most of the insider attacks come from “disgruntled”
soldiers, the Taliban are increasingly using the tactic as they
come under “severe strain” and “severe pressure” from
coalition forces, Little said.  “They are opportunistic,” he said of the Taliban. “They
look for ways of infiltrating Afghan forces. They regrettably
are creative to some extent.”  Said Jawad, a former longtime Afghan ambassador to
 Washington , said he believes the attacks are the result of
Taliban infiltration.  Creating Rift  “The most effective tactic by the Taliban is to create a
rift between Afghan security forces and NATO forces,” he said.  Jawad, who has been mentioned as a possible next Afghan
defense minister, said the rapid pace of expansion of the Afghan
police and army means “there’s limited recruitment criteria,”
making it easier for anti-American insurgents to “place their
agents.”  Polls of Afghan public opinion he has seen show more
positive attitudes toward the U.S. than exist in other Islamic
countries in the region, Jawad said.  The Afghan security forces are expected to grow to 352,000
later this year, while coalition forces plan to withdraw combat
troops by 2014.  The number of “green-on-blue,” or insider, attacks is
still at a “relatively low level,” amounting to 40 deaths this
year among about 130,000 coalition troops, Cordesman said. Still
the attacks spawn fear and widespread media coverage that
bolster the goal of insurgents.  “If all you have to do is create a green-on-blue incident,
you achieve political impact out of any proportion,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  