-- How Volcker Launched His Attack on Inflation
-- B y   W i l l i a m   L .   S i l b e r
-- 2012-08-20T22:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/how-volcker-launched-his-attack-on-inflation.html
When  Paul Volcker  took over as
president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  on Aug. 1,
1975, he became a permanent member of the  Federal Open Market
Committee , the panel within the  Federal Reserve System 
responsible for managing credit conditions and  interest rates .  The  New York  Times labeled him a “monetary pragmatist,”
adding that he was “philosophically sympathetic” with Fed
Chairman Arthur Burns, meaning “that he leans toward tight
money policies and high interest rates to retard inflation.”  Burns still had a reputation as an inflation hawk. He had
testified that the Fed was “determined to follow a course of
monetary policy that will permit only moderate growth in money
and credit,” making it “possible for the fires of inflation to
burn themselves out.” Yet during his eight-year tenure as
chairman, Burns failed to control prices, which increased at a
rate of 6.5 percent a year, an unprecedented pace for peacetime.  Volcker wasted little time asserting his independence. In
November 1975, after just three months on the job, he dissented
from Burns’s position at the FOMC, saying that he felt the right
approach was “to hold interest rates fairly steady.” He
dissented again eight months later, in July 1976.  Tight Credit  There was, in fact, little to dissent about at the time.
High interest rates and tight credit in 1974, before Volcker
arrived at the Fed, had triggered a sharp  recession . Inflation
declined to 5 percent in 1976 from 12 percent in 1974. Investors
celebrated by pushing down the price of gold almost 50 percent
between Dec. 30, 1974, and Aug. 31, 1976. The drop in demand for
gold reflected more than just the measured progress on
inflation; it meant that inflationary expectations had
stabilized, as well. It did not last.  Jimmy Carter  beat the incumbent  Gerald Ford  in the
presidential election of November 1976, an election dominated by
concerns about high unemployment and high inflation. The country
had gone through a sharp recession the previous year and the
 unemployment rate  still averaged almost 8 percent. Although
inflation had declined to 5 percent in 1976, less than half its
1974 level, it was almost the same as was considered
embarrassing in 1969.  Stagflation -- the lethal combination of high unemployment
and high inflation -- reflected a change in consumers’ behavior.
The “buy now, pay later” philosophy adopted by those with jobs
overwhelmed the spending restraint of the unemployed, resulting
in higher prices. Economists had to rework their thinking to
take account of  Milton Friedman ’s warning that gains in
employment would disappear once inflationary expectations caught
up with reality.  Volcker understood the power of expectations. At his very
first FOMC meeting on Aug. 19, 1975, he had warned the optimists
on the committee not to be encouraged by the projections “for
reduced inflation emanating from some econometric models,”
which he said “did not take adequate account of the important
factor of expectations.”  The need to consider the inflationary consequences of
monetary policy even with unemployed resources wasn’t yet the
conventional economic wisdom. Keynesian economic models ignored
inflationary expectations, but the market for gold bullion did
not. By 1978, gold signaled renewed concerns with inflation and
on July 28 the price passed its previous peak of $197.50, and
would trade as high as $243.65 later in the year.  For Volcker, those concerns were compounded by another
event.  In March 1978, G. William Miller had replaced Burns as Fed
chairman. As the former president of  Textron Inc. (TXT) , an aerospace
conglomerate, Miller had limited experience in banking and
economics: he was a director of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Boston , a largely ceremonial position. Fed chairmen don’t need a
doctorate in economics -- Burns was the first to have one -- but
Miller’s lack of experience in finance would hurt his
credibility among international bankers and on  Wall Street .  Dollar Weakness  During the first half of August 1978, the dollar sank to
new lows against the German mark, a fresh vote of no confidence
in America. On Aug. 15, 1978, Volcker told the FOMC, “I think
it’s important particularly in view of the international
situation that we correct the misapprehensions about our lack of
concern over inflation.”  Volcker thought “domestic and international  price
stability  went hand in hand,” and he wanted this reflected in
the FOMC Directive, the instructions for monetary policy voted
on at the end of each FOMC meeting. Volcker believed that the
dollar’s role in world trade depended on price stability.
Americans could no longer consume more cars and televisions than
they produced if foreigners were unwilling to hold dollars.  But Volcker had to shoulder some of the blame for the
dollar’s weakness. He had voted with the majority of the FOMC to
slowly push up the  federal funds rate , the overnight rate on
loans of reserves between banks, as a way to discourage
excessive spending and inflation.  The FOMC operated with a delicate touch, like a team of
brain surgeons, raising interest rates in quarter-percent
increments at each meeting. Mark Willes, a member of the
committee, had urged Volcker privately to “push up rates more
aggressively to convince people that we are serious about
controlling inflation.” Volcker answered, “The FOMC doesn’t
operate that way.”  He would change his mind before long.  Rate Increase  The FOMC increased the federal funds rate to 9 percent in
October 1978, a jump of more than 2 percentage points over a
six-month period. But Willes wasn’t impressed. The “buy now,
pay later” philosophy followed by many Americans confirms that
an interest rate of 9 percent isn’t high if wages and prices are
increasing at about the same rate. It pays to borrow and buy
something tangible, such as a big house, a small diamond, or a
compact bar of gold, to reap the capital gain and repay the loan
in cheaper dollars.  The rate of inflation averaged more than 9 percent during
the three months before the FOMC meeting of Oct. 17, 1978, and
Volcker began to think that Willes had been right. He told his
colleagues that “we’ve been a little too easy,” while
“inflation has gotten worse.”  The foreign-exchange market noticed. On Oct. 30, 1978, one
dollar purchased 1.72 German marks, an all-time low,
representing a decline of more than 20 percent in a year. On
Nov. 1, 1978, the U.S. undertook a massive dollar-rescue
operation. Treasury Secretary Michael Blumenthal convinced
President Carter of the need for drastic measures, and elicited
his support for a significant increase in interest rates by the
Fed.  The rate increase restored a shine to the tarnished dollar,
but Volcker expected the gains to fade without follow-through,
especially if inflation accelerated. He had good reason for
concern. Corporate borrowing showed no signs of tapering off
with the increased cost of funds.  By the March 20, 1979, meeting of the FOMC, almost five
months after Treasury’s rescue of the dollar, the annual rate of
inflation had moved into double digits. Volcker sounded the
alarm. “I think we’re in retreat on the inflation side; if
there’s not a complete rout, it’s close to it.” But Volcker
faced a battle within the FOMC over whether to raise interest
rates. Frank Morris, the president of the  Boston  Fed,
recommended easing policy to avoid a recession.  Morris knew that FOMC members responded more to the
domestic economy than to international finance, in keeping with
the Fed’s congressional mandate to promote full employment and
price stability, with no mention of foreign exchange. Morris
said Volcker’s recommendation to tighten credit was inconsistent
with those priorities and he carried the day. The FOMC refused
to tighten, and Volcker, with three others, voted against the
decision. The press labeled the FOMC dissenters “the Volcker
minority.”  Surging Inflation  In the three months ending June 1979, prices increased at
an annual rate of almost 13 percent. The president’s approval
ratings, meanwhile, declined to 30 percent in June 1979. On July
15, Carter made a televised speech from the Oval Office. He
addressed the details of the country’s dependence on foreign oil
and described America as suffering a “ crisis of confidence .”
He said that “the phrase ‘sound as a dollar’ was an expression
of absolute dependability until 10 years of inflation began to
shrink our dollar and our savings.”  Two days later, Carter requested the resignation of his
senior staff. The house cleaning was intended to signify a fresh
start. Instead, it created confusion. The president removed five
members of his Cabinet, including Treasury Secretary Blumenthal
who had called for an increase in interest rates after the
“Volcker minority” had urged a tightening.  Carter’s Cabinet shakeup triggered an overnight jump in
gold to more than $300 an ounce, a record price at the time. The
president replaced Blumenthal with Miller, the Fed chairman.  Volcker met with the president in the Oval Office on July
24, 1979, to talk about the vacancy at the Fed. The discussion
lasted less than an hour, and Volcker thought it had not gone
well. Returning to New York that night, he met his two best
friends, Larry Ritter and Bob Kavesh, both professors at NYU’s
Graduate School of Business, for dinner.  “Well, I blew it,” Volcker told them. “I said that I
attached great importance to the independence of the  Federal
Reserve  and that I also favored a more restrictive monetary
policy.”  Volcker was disappointed about not getting the job he had
trained for his entire professional life, the job that provided
the opportunity to rescue his country from crisis.  At 7:30 the next morning, he was awakened by a call from
the White House.  (William L. Silber is Marcus Nadler professor of finance
and economics and director of the L. Glucksman Institute for
Research in Securities Markets at New York University’s Stern
School of Business. This is the first of three excerpts from his
new book, “Volcker: The Triumph of Persistence,” which will be
published Sept. 4 by Bloomsbury Press, and is on the  long list 
for the 2012 Financial Times and Goldman Sachs Business Book of
the Year Award. The opinions expressed are his own. Read 
 Part 2  and  Part 3 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the  municipal-bond market 
is safe and on U.S.  circumcision policies ;  Margaret Carlson  on
 “legitimate rape” and Paul Ryan ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on how the
White House views  new warnings from Israel ;  Peter Orszag  on the
 false promise that competition  can fix Medicare; William Pesek
on Asia’s challenge in  limiting smoking ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 partisan rancor .  To contact the writer of this article:
William L. Silber at  wsilber@stern.nyu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  