-- Lowe’s Net Misses Analyst Estimates as Comparable Sales Slip
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-08-20T20:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/lowe-s-net-misses-analyst-estimates-as-comparable-sales-slip-2-.html
Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , the second-largest U.S.
home-improvement retailer, fell the most in almost three months
after reporting second-quarter profit that trailed analysts’
estimates as comparable-store sales fell.  Lowe’s declined 5.8 percent to $26.26 at the close in  New
York , after reporting profit excluding some items of 65 cents a
share. That missed the average estimate of 70 cents from
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The shares, down 3.5 percent
this year, tumbled the most since May 21.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock , who said the
results fell short of expectations, has cut more than 500
corporate jobs this year after the retailer closed 27 U.S.
stores. In May, he promoted two executives to new roles to
improve operations, which includes eliminating slow-selling
items and shifting to everyday low prices with fewer promotions.  “Business fundamentals are being hindered by substantial
organizational changes and yet-to-emerge turnaround benefits,”
Peter Keith, an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in New York, wrote
today in a note. He rates Best Buy neutral.  Net income dropped 10 percent to $747 million, or 64 cents
a share, from $830 million, or 64 cents, a year earlier, the
Mooresville, North Carolina-based company said today in a
statement.  Sales by stores open at least a year fell 0.4 percent in
the quarter. Last week, larger rival  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  reported a
same-store sales gain of 2.1 percent in the second quarter, and
raised its earnings forecast for the year as customers spent
more on remodeling projects.  Forecast Cut  Lowe’s cut its full-year profit forecast to $1.64 a share
from a projection of $1.83 a share in May. It said it expects
sales to be little changed, down from an expectation of a 1
percent to 2 percent increase.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales remaining after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, narrowed to 33.9 percent
from 34.5 percent a year earlier.  Gregory Bridgeford, executive vice president of business
development, became chief customer officer in May, while Rick Damron, executive vice president of store operations, assumed
the post of chief operating officer. Both report to Niblock in
the newly created positions.  In an interview, Niblock, 49, said he’d prefer a friendly
acquisition of  Canada ’s  Rona Inc. (RON)  after its board last month
rejected Lowe’s unsolicited takeover offer of C$1.76 billion
($1.78 billion). It would be the U.S. retailer’s largest
acquisition aimed at accelerating expansion and operating
profitably in Canada, where it has opened 31 stores since 2007.  “We need more scale to be able to cover the costs and the
overhead,” Niblock said by telephone today. Exiting Canada “is
not on the radar screen at this point,” he said.  Lowe’s is seeking permission from Rona’s board to conduct
due diligence to determine whether its offer is reasonable,
Niblock said.  “In all likelihood for us to move forward, that would be
required,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  