-- Park Wins S. Korea Ruling Party’s Presidential Nomination
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-08-20T08:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/park-wins-s-korea-ruling-party-s-presidential-nomination.html
Park Geun Hye, whose father ruled
 South Korea  as dictator for 18 years, won the ruling party’s
presidential nomination today, bringing her a step closer to her
goal of becoming the country’s first female leader.  Park, 60, beat four other candidates to win 84 percent of
the vote in ballots cast by party lawmakers, non-elected members
and citizens. The opposition has yet to name a candidate to
contest the Dec. 19 election and there is speculation that
independent software magnate Ahn Cheol Soo will run.  “I vow to win this presidential election and to create a
new South Korea, one full of hopes and dreams,” Park said in
her acceptance speech in Seoul. She pledged to promote economic
growth and welfare to create a society “everyone can share.”  The never-married eldest daughter of late leader Park Chung Hee, Park must revitalize a party hurt by scandals and President
 Lee Myung Bak ’s plummeting approval ratings. She has signaled
that she may depart from the NFP’s economic policies to respond
to public dissatisfaction over youth unemployment and rising
income disparity.  “Winning the nomination was a fait accompli,” said Park
Won Hon, a political science professor at Seoul National
University. “Her biggest challenge now is to broaden her fan
base to include the youth vote, which will decide whether Park
secures the victory or not.”  Second Attempt  This was Park’s second attempt at winning her party’s
nomination for president, after the primary in 2007. As Lee’s
single five-year term comes to a close in February, he faces
mounting discontent for his failure to deliver on election
promises to boost economic growth to an annual 7 percent and
per-capita income to $40,000 by 2017.  Instead, the global slowdown cut growth to 3.6 percent last
year and South Korea’s jobless rate for those 15-29 years old
was 7.3 percent in July, more than double the national average
of 3.1 percent.  Park, who became acting first lady at 22 after her mother
was killed in a bungled North Korean assassination attempt on
Park Chung Hee, has softened her support of her father’s export-
led growth policies. As demand falls in  Europe  and slows
economic growth and exports, she has pledged to broaden welfare
and offer subsidies to small and medium-sized businesses that
create jobs.  Changing Stance  The NFP in January changed its name and announced a less
hardline stance on totalitarian  North Korea , which has shown no
sign of abandoning its nuclear weapons program since Kim Jong Un
succeeded his father  Kim Jong Il  as leader in December. South
and North Korea technically remain at war as their 1950-53
conflict ended without a peace treaty.  Park said today she would work toward building “a new
framework for sustainable peace on the Korean peninsula.”  She has promised to run a transparent government, building
on the popularity she gained for leading the NFP to an
unexpected win in the April parliamentary election. Party
members including Lee’s elder brother and the speaker of the
National Assembly have been prosecuted on bribery allegations.  Park’s rivals may include Ahn, the chairman of anti-virus
software maker  Ahnlab Inc. (053800) , whose business success and donations
to charity have won him support from younger voters,  and Moon
Jae In, a human-rights lawyer with the opposition Democratic
United Party who was jailed in 1975 for taking part in street
protests against the rule of Park’s father.  Youth Turnout  Opposition parties tend to perform better when there is
greater youth turnout, the National Election Commission said in
a report that analyzed the April 2012 parliamentary vote.  Ahn closely trails Park in public opinion surveys. The one-
time medical doctor-turned CEO briefly overtook Park last month,
boosted by a spike in support after a July 23 television
interview in which he expressed his interest in running for
president, and the July 19 publication of his book “Ahn Cheol
Soo’s Thoughts.” He hasn’t made any public appearances since.  Park’s support fell 1.3 percentage points to 35.9 percent,
according to a Realmeter poll published today. Ahn’s support
fell 0.5 points to 31 percent, while’s Moon’s stood at 11.3
percent, up one percent. Seoul-based Realmeter surveyed 3,000
people from Aug. 13-17 and the poll had a margin of error of
plus or minus 1.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  