-- Paulson Resorts, ATP, Madoff, Slavery Museum: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-08-20T12:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/paulson-resorts-atp-madoff-slavery-museum-bankruptcy.html
Paulson & Co. and  Winthrop Realty
Trust (FUR)  gave up on trying to retain ownership of the remaining
four resorts they foreclosed in early 2011. Instead, they will
sell the properties to secured lender  Government of Singapore
Investment Corp.  for $1.5 billion, including $1.12 billion in
cash and $360 million in debt.  After foreclosing last year, Paulson and Winthrop put all
five resorts into bankruptcy in February 2011 to prevent
foreclosure of $1 billion in mortgages and $525 million in
maturing mezzanine debt. After selling  Doral Golf Resort and Spa
in Miami  to  Donald Trump , Paulson and Winthrop retain ownership
of the Grand Wailea Resort Hotel and Spa in Hawaii; the La
Quinta Resort and Club and the PGA West golf course in La
Quinta, California; the  Arizona  Biltmore Resort and Spa in
Phoenix; and the Claremont Resort & Spa in Berkeley, California.  The $1.12 billion in cash from the Singapore investment
fund, known as Gic, will provide full payment for $850 million
in mortgages along with $115 million in first-level mezzanine
debt owing to  MetLife Inc. (MET)  Interest on the mortgages will be
paid at the non-default rate.  Gic’s $360 million in second- and third-level mezzanine
debt, along with interest, will be exchanged for ownership as
part of the purchase price.  Gic will pay as much as $10.7 million of unsecured debt in
full.  The resorts’ papers initiating the sale process were filed
not long before midnight on Aug. 17. There will be an auction to
determine whether another buyer will pay more. At a Sept. 10
hearing, the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan will approve
sale procedures. The hotels want other offers by Oct. 23
followed by an auction on Oct. 25. The sale to Gic would be
approved and carried out through implementation of a Chapter 11
plan acceptable to Gic.  The existing owners will receive nothing on their
$50 million in fourth-level mezzanine debt unless the auction
brings a higher price.  The agreement gives Gic the option of retaining Hilton
Worldwide Inc. as a hotel manager. Or, Gic can have the existing
Hilton contract terminated by the  bankruptcy court , in which
case Gic will pay the damages in full. There is ongoing
litigation in bankruptcy court, where the judge is near the
point of deciding exactly how much Hilton would be owed were the
contract terminated.  Gic became what the resorts called their “most vocal
critic” by demanding a quick conclusion to the reorganization.
To win a reprieve from Gic’s opposition, the resorts agreed in
September 2011 to pay interest each month and to file a plan
paying Gic in full. Unless paid sooner, the settlement required
beginning an auction process by Sept. 1 and confirming a plan by
Dec. 15.  The resorts didn’t make an interest payment on Aug. 1,
prompting the lender to file papers in bankruptcy court allowing
Gic to file its own plan. Allowing Gic to file a plan in the
event of default was part of last year’s settlement.  When Trump agreed to buy the Doral property, the resorts
said the price indicated the remaining four hotels would have a
value sufficient for more than full payment on the $1.5 billion
in debt.  The properties listed assets of $2.2 billion and
liabilities of $1.9 billion. An affiliate of  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
purchased the five resorts in 2007 for $4 billion. Revenue in
2010 was $465 million.  The case is In re MSR Resort Golf Course LLC, 11-10372,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  New Filings  ATP’s Chapter 11 Filing Brings New $250 Million Loan  ATP Oil & Gas Corp. (ATPG) , a producer and developer of oil and
gas wells mostly in the  Gulf of Mexico , filed a Chapter 11
petition on Aug. 17 in its Houston hometown to land
$250 million in new borrowing power.  Although ATP listed assets of $3.6 billion and
$3.5 billion of liabilities on the March 31 balance sheet, the
company began bankruptcy reorganization with only $10 million in
cash. ATP blamed financial problems on the offshore drilling
moratorium imposed after the 2010 blowout of a well operated by
BP Plc.  ATP owes $365 million on a first-lien loan with  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  as agent. There is $1.5 billion on second-lien
notes with  Bank of New York Mellon Trust Co.  as agent.  In addition, there is $35 million outstanding on
convertible notes and $23.4 million owing to third parties for
their shares of production revenue. Trade suppliers are owed
$147 million, ATP said in a court filing.  Credit Suisse is agent for a group of lenders that have
agreed to supply $617.6 million in first-lien financing for the
reorganization. The loan includes $250 million of fresh cash in
a delayed-draw  term loan  along with refinancing the existing
first-lien debt.  An intercreditor agreement prohibits the second-lien
noteholders from objecting to the new financing, ATP said in a
court filing. The agreement also limits the demands that the
junior lenders can make for so-called adequate protection. ATP
said the senior lenders’ collateral is worth more than enough to
pay the first-lien debt in full.  The agreement for the new loan provides for $80 million to
be loaned and the existing debt refinanced when the new
financing is given interim approval.  ATP reported a net loss of $145.1 million in the first
quarter on revenue of $146.6 million. Income from operations in
the quarter was $11.8 million. For 2011, the net loss was $210.5
million on revenue of $687.2 million. The year’s operating
income was $152.7 million.  The second-lien notes last traded on Aug. 17 for 29.625
cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The notes lost 61 percent of their value since May 1.  During the past three years, ATP’s stock traded as high as
$23.97 on April 15, 2010. The closing price on Aug. 17 was about
46 cents in trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The case was assigned to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Marvin Isgur
in Houston.  For other Bloomberg coverage of the filing, click here.  The case is In re ATP Oil & Gas Corp., 12-36187, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District Texas (Houston).  Manhattan’s Eastgate Hotel Files for Swap with Lender  The owner of the  Eastgate Hotel  on East 39th Street in
Manhattan filed a Chapter 11 petition on Aug. 17 together with a
reorganization plan turning ownership over to the secured
lenders.  The plan already received unanimous “yes” votes enabling
the bankruptcy judge to hold one hearing in four to six weeks
approving the plan.  The $69 million mortgage was acquired by Atlas Capital
Group LLC and Rockpoint Group. The plan calls for them to obtain
ownership in exchange for the debt. Unsecured creditors owed
$154,000 are to be paid in full.  The current owners will be entitled to receive some of the
hotel’s profits in future years, if conditions are met.  The petition listed assets of $64.3 million and debt
totaling $69.2 million. A planned renovation of the hotel wasn’t
completed. The mortgage went into default in July 2011 and
matured in December. No debt service has been paid on the
mortgage since last year.  There will be a hearing in bankruptcy court this afternoon
where the judge may set a schedule for the confirmation hearing
to approve the plan.  The case is In re Eastgate Tower Hotel Associates LP,
12-13539, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan).  Updates  Slavery Museum Reorganization Dismissed at Donor’s Request  The  U.S. National Slavery Museum  is no longer in
bankruptcy. The Chapter 11 reorganization was dismissed on Aug.
17 by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Richmond, Virginia.  The museum, which exists only as architect’s drawings,
filed for Chapter 11 protection in September to halt tax
foreclosure.  The museum had its genesis in 2002 with the gift of 38
acres in Fredericksburg, Virginia, from Celebrate Virginia South
LLC. The deed contained a restriction prohibiting use of the
property for anything other than a museum related to slavery.  The museum owes $3.2 million to unsecured creditors and
$6.1 million to secured creditors including the architects and
the local taxing authority, Celebrate Virginia said in a court
filing. The architect is  Pei Partnership Associates LLP .  Although the museum filed a proposed reorganization plan,
Celebrate Virginia called it “vague and speculative” without
demonstrating how the necessary $5 million in contributions
could be raised.  Celebrate Virginia also opposed the plan because it was
based on the idea of selling off 20 acres and breaking the deed
restriction requiring use as a museum. Celebrate Virginia argued
at length that the deed restriction couldn’t be broken under
Virginia law.  Celebrate Virginia filed and won a motion to have the case
dismissed or converted to liquidation in Chapter 7. The museum
recommended that the judge dismiss if he was inclined to grant
the motion. The judge obliged by dismissing last week.  The case is In re U.S. National Slavery Museum, 11-36013,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond).  AMR Modifies Pilots’ Contract to Satisfy Judge’s Objections  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , the parent of  American Airlines  Inc., modified
the proposal for altering the pilots’ union contract and
scheduled a hearing on Sept. 4 where it will ask the bankruptcy
judge to impose a new collective bargaining agreement on the
Allied Pilots Association.  Last week, Bankruptcy Judge Sean H. Lane declined to allow
AMR’s proposed changes to the contract because it contained two
provisions beyond what he saw the airline as needing. Lane ruled
that unlimited pilot furloughs and code-sharing were beyond
AMR’s business plan and more than the company demonstrably
needed to reorganize successfully.  AMR responded on Aug. 17 by filing a revised union contract
where new provisions on pilot furloughs were withdrawn
“entirely.” The airline also trimmed back the proposal on
code-sharing, where AMR would sell seats on flights flown by
other airlines, and vice versa. For details on Lane’s opinion
last week, click here for the Aug. 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  In his opinion last week, Lane said AMR could return to
court when it made changes in the contract to comply with his
ruling.  On code-sharing, AMR’s new proposal would allow selling
tickets on flights operated by other airlines so long as the
other airlines’ flights have no more than 50 percent of the
available seat miles on AMR’s own schedule. It would also allow
an expansion of existing code-sharing with Alaska Airlines and
Hawaiian Airlines.  Last week the official creditors’ committee filed papers
for authority to intervene in the lawsuit between AMR and the
official committee representing the company’s retirees. In the
suit, AMR claims it has the unilateral right to terminate
retiree health benefits because they aren’t vested.  Given that retiree health benefits represent a $1.4 billion
liability, the creditors’ panel contends it has a right to
participate in view of the “gravity of the issue presented.”  The retirees’ committee and AMR already filed their first
set of papers asking the judge to rule one way or the other. The
dispute is scheduled for hearing in bankruptcy court in December
after more papers are filed.  Headquartered at the airport midway between Dallas and Fort
Worth, AMR listed assets of $24.7 billion and debt totaling
$29.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
November. American Airlines entered bankruptcy with 600 aircraft
in the mainline fleet and another 300 with American Eagle, the
feeder airline.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  SIPC Cuts Fee Request by Madoff Trustee’s Lawyers  In large corporate reorganizations, professionals often
receive almost 100 percent of requested fees. The trustee
liquidating Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC isn’t so
lucky because he has the Securities Investor Protection Corp.
looking over his shoulder.  Separately, the trustee is trying to avoid dismissal of
fraudulent-transfer lawsuits against foreigners and has an
agreement to hold up completion of a settlement by the New York
Attorney General.  To receive the Madoff assignment, trustee  Irving Picard  and
his principal lawyers from Baker & Hostetler LLP agreed with
SIPC to cut their standard rate by 10 percent. When the time
came for seeking final approval for fees covering the period
Oct. 1, 2011, through Jan. 31, 2012, the firm voluntarily cut
the fees by an additional $723,000 on top of the 10 percent
reduction that amounted to $5.3 million.  SIPC reviewed the fee request and decided that it should be
reduced by another $1.2 million. In addition, SIPC told the
bankruptcy judge in a filing last week that an additional 10
percent should be held back and paid only later in the case.  Totaling all the deductions and holdbacks, SIPC recommended
that Picard and his firm be paid $43.3 million. SIPC recommended
that $16 million held back from previous fee requests be paid at
this time.  SIPC told the judge that he is obliged to pay the
recommended amounts under a provision in the Securities Investor
Protection Act giving SIPC the right to determine fees in cases
where there is no reasonable expectation for SIPC to recover the
costs of the brokerage liquidation. The hearing on payment of
fees is set for Aug. 29.  In a brokerage liquidation, expenses are paid by the SIPC
fund and don’t come out of the money collected for distributions
to creditors.  On Aug. 17, Picard filed his brief in district court
opposing dismissal of dozens of lawsuits filed against
foreigners. The foreigners contend fraudulent transfer law can’t
be applied outside the U.S., thus immunizing them from being
required to return fictitious profits that Madoff paid out
before bankruptcy.  The case will turn on the interpretation given by U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff to a 2010 U.S.  Supreme Court  decision
called Morrison v. National Australia Bank. Rakoff removed the
lawsuit from bankruptcy court to decide threshold issues such as
the extraterritorial applicability of U.S. fraudulent transfer
law.  Picard contends Morrison isn’t applicable because it
involved a lawsuit where a foreign plaintiff was suing foreign
and U.S. defendants regarding securities sold on foreign
exchanges. He says that the Supreme Court didn’t intend to
immunize foreigners entirely from being sued under U.S.
securities laws.  Picard also points to Section 541 of the Bankruptcy Court
where the trustee has power over property of the estate
“wherever located.” Courts, Picard says, have interpreted the
language as an as indication of congressional intent for U.S.
bankruptcy law to have foreign application.  If foreign defendants are granted dismissal, Picard argues
that foreigners will be able to receive distributions from U.S.
bankruptcies while being absolved from being required to return
fraudulently transferred property.  The foreign defendants will file another set of papers on
Aug. 31. Rakoff hold a hearing for oral argument on Sept. 21.  Last week, Picard won an agreement where New York Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman won’t attempt go to ahead with a
$410 million settlement with a Madoff investor named J. Ezra Merkin.  Picard sued Schneiderman in bankruptcy court on Aug. 1
contending that New York State’s top lawyer is recovering on
claims that belong to all Madoff customers and that only the
Madoff trustee can pursue. Schneiderman told Picard that he
intends to have the suit moved from bankruptcy court to U.S.
district court.  The agreement requires Schneiderman to file his transfer
papers by Aug. 31. The attorney general agreed that he will not
take any steps to carry out the settlement or transfer any of
the $410 million. In return, Picard agreed not to go ahead with
a scheduled Aug. 22 hearing for a preliminary injunction
preventing Schneiderman from completing the settlement.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008, with
the appointment of the trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The lawsuit with Schneiderman is Picard v. Schneiderman,
12-01778, in the same court. U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The Madoff liquidation case is
Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Birmingham City Council to Have Own Lawsuit on Sewers  The city council in Birmingham, Alabama, will have its own
lawsuit attempting to prove that bondholders’ liens on sewer
revenues are invalid.  In February, the bondholders’ indenture trustee filed suit
in bankruptcy court against Jefferson County, claiming the right
to control the sewer system and its revenue. The bankruptcy
judge ruled that the county’s filing for Chapter 9 municipal
bankruptcy ousted the receiver appointed before bankruptcy in
state court at the bondholders’ behest. The dispute is on appeal
to the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta.  In June, the city council members filed what they styled as
a class proof of claim against the county for $1.6 billion in
overcharges from the sewer system arising from what they called
“misconduct and criminal activity by managerial personnel and
others acting in collusion.” They followed up in June with
papers asking the judge to allow them to intervene in the
lawsuit as a class representing sewer customers.  The city council intends to prove that the bondholders’
lien on sewer revenue is void. The city council believes the
county has a conflict of interest and can’t adequately represent
citizens who pay what they claim are inflated sewer bills
resulting from criminal activity.  At a hearing last week, the bankruptcy judge declined to
allow the sewer customers to intervene in the lawsuit. Instead,
he told the sewer customers to prosecute a separate lawsuit of
their own in bankruptcy court challenging the validity of the
bondholders’ liens.  The judge instructed the city council, wearing the hats of
sewer customers, to file a revised complaint by Sept. 7. The
judge said the customers might be given an extra two weeks if
they request.  Where bondholders lost in January when the judge said
bankruptcy ousted them from direct control of the sewer system
and its revenue, they won on June 29 when the judge wrote an
opinion saying that the bond indenture limits what the county
may deduct from sewer revenue before paying the remainder to
bondholders.  Jefferson County began the country’s all-time largest
Chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy in November, saying long-term
debt is $4.23 billion, including about $3.1 billion in defaulted
sewer debt where the debt holders can look only to the sewer
system for payment. The sewer debt default is at the core of the
county’s financial ills.  The Chapter 9 case is In re Jefferson County, Alabama,
11-05736, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District Alabama
(Birmingham). The lawsuit over control of the sewers and revenue
is Bank of New York Mellon v. Jefferson County, Alabama (In re
Jefferson County, Alabama), 12-00016, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Northern District Alabama (Birmingham).  San Bernadino’s Pivotal Hearing May Come at Year End  Whether San Bernardino, California, is eligible for
municipal bankruptcy may not be decided until late this year, if
then, under a schedule laid down at an Aug. 17 hearing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Riverside, California.  The firefighter’s union and other creditors wanted a more
deliberate schedule leading to a hearing where the bankruptcy
court is required to determine whether the city has satisfied
conditions under state and federal law to qualify for municipal
debt adjustment under Chapter 9 of the federal  Bankruptcy Code .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Meredith A. Jury instructed the city
to file papers by Aug. 31 explaining why San Bernardino
qualifies for Chapter 9. Opponents’ papers are due Oct. 24 in
advance of a status conference on Nov. 5. There will also be a
Sept. 21 hearing to resolve disputes if creditors contend the
city failed to turn over relevant documents and information.  For Bloomberg coverage of the hearing, click here.  Holding a status conference in November implies that a
final hearing on Chapter 9 eligibility may not begin until
December. It’s possible the city and creditors may call multiple
witnesses, requiring the judge to hold several days of hearings
before all the evidence is taken.  Unlike a Chapter 11 reorganization for companies, Chapter 9
requires the judge to make a threshold determination of
eligibility. San Bernardino will be required to show the judge
there was a fiscal emergency allowing the city to forgo 60 days
of mediation required by state law.  San Bernardino filed for Chapter 9 debt adjustment on Aug.
1, making it the third California city to have sought  bankruptcy
protection  in less than five weeks.  The case is In re City of San Bernardino, California,
12-28006, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District California
(Riverside).  Wasendorf Pleads Not Guilty at Three-Minute Arraignment  Russell R. Wasendorf Sr., the founder and former chief
executive of Peregrine Financial Group Inc., pleaded not guilty
at a three-minute arraignment on Aug. 17. He didn’t oppose being
held without bail.  With his assets frozen by a receiver and lacking funds to
pay for private counsel, Wasendorf will be defended by a federal
public defender. Trial is tentatively scheduled for the last
week in October.  He was indicted on Aug. 13 by a federal grand jury in Iowa
on 31 counts of making false statement to the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. The indictment says the reports
overstated the amount of segregated customer funds by tens of
millions dollars. Precise amounts weren’t given. Wasendorf
already confessed to conducting a fraud for 20 years at
Peregrine, a futures broker.  For Bloomberg coverage of the arraignment, click here.  The fraud came to light when Wasendorf unsuccessfully
attempted suicide outside the firm’s head office in Cedar Falls,
Iowa, on July 9. He left behind a suicide note disclosing the
fraud. The CFTC alleged that more than
$200 million in supposedly segregated customer funds was
misappropriated.  The CFTC initiated a receivership action on July 10 in U.S.
District Court in Chicago, where the judge appointed a receiver
and froze the assets the same day. The company itself filed a
liquidating Chapter 7 petition later that day and a trustee was
appointed.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-cr-2021, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Iowa (Eastern Waterloo).
The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-27488,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).
The CFTC receivership case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Georgia Prison Inducted Into Chapter 11 in Las Vegas  A privately operated prison in Georgia finds itself in
Chapter 11 reorganization in Las Vegas, at least for the next
month.  The prison was expanded with proceeds from two issues of
municipal bonds on which $54 million is owing. Although the
prison had 1,200 beds, the census averaging 700 to 800 covered
only operating expenses, the indenture trustee said in a court
filing.  Both the bonds and real estate taxes were in default. Irwin
County, Georgia, where the prison is located, scheduled a
foreclosure auction in view of $1.8 million in delinquent taxes.  The indenture trustee and two bondholders filed an
involuntary Chapter 7 petition in February in Las Vegas. The
prison’s operator, Terry O’Brien, admitted that Las Vegas is a
technically correct venue because that’s the state where his
company is located. O’Brien’s company operates the prison under
lease from the county, which is the owner.  O’Brien didn’t oppose being in bankruptcy. Instead, he
filed papers seeking to have the bankruptcy moved to Georgia for
the parties’ convenience.  The Las Vegas bankruptcy judge went ahead and put the
prison operator officially into a Chapter 11 reorganization last
week. The motion for moving the case to Georgia is scheduled for
Sept. 21.  The bondholders are allowing the prison operator to use
cash income pledged as part of the security for the bonds.  The case is In re Municipal Corrections LLC, 12-12253, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  Lumber Producer Potomac Supply Sets Sept. 19 Auction  Potomac Supply Corp. , a family-owned producer of treated
lumber, will auction the business on Sept. 19. There is no buyer
as yet under contract, although the company has authority from
the bankruptcy court to grant a breakup fee if a purchaser signs
a contract in advance of the auction.  Last week, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Richmond, Virginia,
approved auction and sale procedures. There will be a Sept. 24
hearing for sale approval to whoever made the best bid at
auction.  The company filed for Chapter 11 protection in January
after the lender  Regions Bank (RF)  cut off access to cash and forced
the business to shut down, laying off 158 workers.  The Kinsale, Virginia-based company said it produced 68
percent of income from making treated lumber. Another 22 percent
is generated from a sawmill on the property.  The company said the bank had the plant appraised for $17.5
million in July 2011, not including the $4.3 million appraised
value of machinery and equipment.  The bank is owed about $17.4 million. In addition, there is
$6.4 million owing to trade suppliers, according to a court
filing.  The case is In re Potomac Supply Corp., 12-30347, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond).  Hawker Seeks Longer Exclusivity During Superior Talks  Hawker Beechcraft Inc. filed papers seeking an extension of
the exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan while it
conducts 45 days of exclusive discussions with Superior Aviation
Beijing Co. Ltd. about a transaction to underlay reorganization.  In mid-July the bankruptcy court in Manhattan gave Superior
exclusive negotiating rights. Forty percent owned by the Beijing
municipal government, Superior offered to buy most of the
aircraft manufacturer for $1.79 billion.  There will be a hearing in bankruptcy court on Aug. 30 for
an extension of exclusive plan-filing rights. If the judge
approves, so-called exclusivity will be pushed out by four
months to Dec. 29.  Before the Chapter 11 filing, Hawker negotiated a
reorganization plan with creditors calling for a stand-alone
restructuring by converting secured and unsecured debt to equity
while reducing debt by $2.55 billion. The plan itself was filed
in late June.  Creditors are allowing Hawker to pursue a transaction with
Superior that might be more advantageous than a debt-for-equity
swap. For details on the swap plan, click here for the July 3
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Hawker’s $183 million in 8.5 percent senior unsecured notes
due 2015 traded on Aug. 16 for 16.5 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The $302 million in
8.875 percent senior unsecured notes due 2015 traded on Aug. 9
for 17.25 cents, Trace said.  A Wichita, Kansas-based designer and manufacturer of light
and medium-sized jet, turboprop and piston aircraft, Hawker
generated revenue of $2.34 billion in 2011. Total debt for
borrowed money is $2.55 billion, according to the proposed
disclosure statement. Other claims include pensions under funded
by $493 million, according to a court filing.  The case is In re Hawker Beechcraft Inc., 12-11873, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  TCIM Call Centers Fetch $5.4 Million in Approved Sale  TCIM Services Inc. , an operator of six call centers for the
banking and telecommunications industries, was authorized last
week by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Delaware to sell the
business for about $5.4 million to Ipacesetters LLC.  The buyer signed a contract before the auction that was
canceled because there were no competing offers.  TCIM filed for Chapter 11 protection on June 3 and
submitted papers 17 days later for approval of auction and sale
procedures. Based in Wilmington, Delaware, TCIM needed Chapter
11 after revenue declined more than 45 percent since January
2011.  The petition stated that assets are less than $10 million
while debt is $11.6 million. Liabilities include $7.8 million
owing to Manufacturers & Traders Trust Co. on a revolving credit
facility. The lender consented to the sale.  The case is In re TCIM Services Inc., 12-11711, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Ruden McClosky Plan to Pay 5 Percent to Unsecured Creditors  Ruden McClosky PA , a  law firm  that once had eight offices
in Florida, is scheduled to hold a confirmation hearing on Sept.
28 for approval of a liquidating Chapter 11 plan with a 5
percent recovery for unsecured creditors.  The firm filed a Chapter 11 petition on Nov. 1 and was
authorized on Nov. 30 by the bankruptcy judge in Fort Lauderdale
to sell the firm to  Greenspoon Marder PA , a six-office Florida
firm.  Greenspoon paid $5.6 million cash plus the assumption of $2
million in debt. The sale paid off the secured claim of about
$4.6 million owing to  Wells Fargo Bank NA. (WFC)  Shareholders of the
firm, often called partners at other firms, had guaranteed the
debt.  Last week, the bankruptcy judge approved disclosure
materials so creditors can vote on the plan. From the $2.2
million the firm had left after the sale and expected to collect
later, some $350,000 will remain for distribution to unsecured
creditors once expenses of the Chapter 11 case and claims with
higher priority are paid, according to the disclosure statement.  Shrunken in size, the Ruden firm had 67 attorneys and 148
total employees on entering Chapter 11, court papers said.  The case is In re Ruden McClosky PA, 11-40603, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  Watch List  Newly Opened Revel Casino Isn’t Covering the ’Nut’  The newly-opened  Revel casino  in Atlantic City, New Jersey,
generated gaming revenue “well below expectations” in the
first four months of operations,  Standard & Poor’s  said in an
Aug. 17 report.  “Unless operating performance is significantly better than
we expect, Revel’s capital structure is not sustainable in its
current state and management may need to restructure its debt
obligations,” S&P said.  S&P lowered the corporate  credit rating  by two grades to
CCC while the $900 million senior secured term loan was given
the same rating.  S&P said it’s “questionable” whether Revel can cover
fixed charges in 2013. The picture becomes more bleak in 2014,
when second-lien notes begin requiring cash payments, S&P said.  S&P also expects Revel will violate loan covenants in June
2013.  The $850 million senior secured term loan of Revel
Entertainment LLC traded on Aug. 17 for 75.125 cents on the
dollar, to yield 16.96 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The loan traded near par from February into April. For
other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Rotech Healthcare at CCC-; Bonds Yield More Than 24%  Rotech Healthcare Inc. (ROHI) , the third-largest U.S. provider of
home respiratory equipment and services, has “significantly
depleted cash reserves” and a corporate credit rating from
Standard & Poor’s that plunged on Aug. 17 by four levels to CCC-
.  S&P at the same time lowered the rating on the
$290 million in second-lien notes to CCC- in view of the
company’s “continued negative free operating cash flows.” S&P
predicts that the noteholders won’t recover more than
50 percent following payment default.  The Orlando-Florida-based company has 425 centers in 48
states, often in rural areas with less competition.  The 10.5 percent second-lien bonds due in 2018 last traded
on Aug. 17 for 59.5 cents on the dollar, to yield 24 percent,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The stock closed up 2 cents at 70 cents on Aug. 17 in over-
the-counter trading. The three-year closing high for the stock
was $4.85 on June 8, 2011. The low in the period was 15 cents on
Aug. 17, 2009.  Downgrades  Borgata Casino Revenue Falls Less Than Competition’s, S&P Says  The  Borgata  casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey, is
“performing weaker” than Standard & Poor’s expected.
Consequently, the corporate rating slipped one level on Aug. 17
to B.  Even though S&P expects  cash flow  will decline about
15 percent this year, the rating company still expects the
property will generate “moderate free operating cash flow,”
averaging about $25 million annually.  The bad news for Borgata is that revenue has declined about
4.2 percent this year. The good news is that other casinos are
performing worse, with market revenue down
7 percent, S&P said.  The Borgata, a joint venture between  Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD)  and
 MGM Resorts International (MGM) , opened in 2003. The casino’s owner is
formally named Marina District Development Co. LLC.  Secure Software Maker IntraLinks Stock, Rating Down  Software provider  IntraLinks Holdings Inc. (IL)  had
“meaningfully lower profitability and flat revenue” during the
first half of 2012, Standard & Poor’s said Aug. 17 while
lowering the corporate credit rating one grade to B+.  “EBITDA margin was about 16 percent in the first half of
2012, down from over 30 percent historically,” S&P said. S&P
nonetheless said that liquidity is “adequate.”  IntraLinks, based in New York, develops software allowing
customers to share information confidentially with outside
parties.  The stock closed on Aug. 17 at $5.55, up 17 cents in New
York Stock Exchange trading. The closing high since shares began
trading in August 2010 was $31.76 on April 29, 2011. The closing
low was $3.84 on June 27.  Advance Sheets  All Chapter 13 Payments May Go to Debtor’s Lawyer  There is no rule making a Chapter 13 plan automatically in
bad faith if all payments under the plan go to the bankrupt’s
lawyer, a panel for the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans
ruled on Aug. 16, reversing the district court.  The case involved an elderly individual whose only income
was $1,060 a month in Social Security benefits. She owned a home
worth $55,000 with a $40,600 mortgage requiring monthly payments
of $327.  She had more than $7,000 in credit card debt. Her
bankruptcy lawyer in effect made a loan to cover filing fees.
The plan called for the lawyer to receive a $2,800 fee under a
so-called no-look local rule, where the requested fee is
permitted unless someone objects.  The bankruptcy court confirmed the plan over an objection
from the Chapter 13 trustee, who appealed to the district court
and won, overturning approval of the plan. The district judge
would have sent the case back to the lower court directing the
bankruptcy judge to make a finding that the plan was per se in
bad faith, because all of the bankrupt’s payments under the plan
would have gone to the lawyer.  Writing for the three-judge court, Circuit Judge Patrick E. Higginbotham reverse and ruled that the plan was properly
confirmed. He said that the bankruptcy judge didn’t abuse his
discretion in concluding that the fee was reasonable.  He also said there is no per se rule making a plan in bad
faith if all payments go to the lawyer.  The case is Sikes v. Crager (In re Crager), 11-30982, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  Legal Name Not Required on UCC Financing Statement  There is no requirement in the Uniform Commercial Code that
a person’s legal name, or name on a birth certificate, must
appear on a financing statement for the resulting security
interest to be valid in bankruptcy, a U.S. district judge in
Illinois ruled on Aug. 17.  The bankruptcy judge voided a security interest when the
financing statement listed the debtor’s name as “Bennie A.
Miller,” a variant of names the bankrupt used. His birth
certificate said “Ben Miller.”  U.S. District Judge Michael P. McCuskey interpreted the
Illinois UCC as only requiring use of a “correct name,” not
the person’s legal name. For imposing a requirement not
contained in the UCC, McCuskey reversed the bankruptcy court and
held the security interest valid.  The case is  State Bank  of Arthur v. Miller (In re Miller),
12-02052, U.S. District Court, Central District Illinois
(Urbana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 