-- Phyllis Diller, Frumpy Pioneer of Stand-Up Comedy, Dies at 95
-- B y   H e a t h e r   B u r k e
-- 2012-08-20T20:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/phyllis-diller-frumpy-pioneer-of-stand-up-comedy-dies-at-95.html
Phyllis Diller, the frumpy
comedienne whose jokes lampooning domestic life with her
fictitious husband “Fang” laid the groundwork for a generation
of female comedians, has died. She was 95.  Diller died today at her home in the Brentwood neighborhood
of  Los Angeles , her talent agent Fred Wostbrock said. He didn’t
know the cause of death. In March 1999, Diller suffered a heart
attack and doctors implanted a pacemaker.  One of the first widely popular female stand-up comics,
Diller went from being a 37-year-old housewife to a professional
jokester after her real husband lost his job. She created a
character based on her own persona -- a disheveled, self-
deprecating housewife --that would be used decades later by
performers such as Joan Rivers, Brett Butler and Roseanne Barr.  Diller added to her fame through television appearances on
Jack Paar’s show and Bob Hope’s specials. She also  performed  in
numerous TV series, variety shows and specials in the 1960s and
1970s.  With frazzled, bleached-blonde hair, outrageous costumes, a
long cigarette holder and a maniacal laugh -- which one reviewer
said could “make strong dogs howl” -- Diller fired off as many
as 12  punch lines  a minute. She wrote her own material and
steered clear of obscenities.  Many of those one-liners had to do with her looks. Calling
herself “frumpy grotesque,” she was outspoken about her two
facelifts, nose job, tummy tuck, breast reduction, cheek
implants, under-eye lift, chemical peel and straightened teeth.  “I never liked the way I looked,” she said when she was
in her 70s. “I used to be young and ugly. Now I’m old and
gorgeous.”  In-Law Jokes  In addition to “Fang,” she created a fictitious mother-
in-law, “ Moby Dick ,” and a sister-in-law, “Captain Bligh.”
Her husband’s family sued her for $250,000 for denigrating him;
the suit never reached court.  The  American Academy  of Plastic Surgery gave her the
“Queen of Plastic Surgery” award for making the field more
acceptable by publicizing her procedures.  Diller was the first woman honored by the Friars’ Club in
Los Angeles and got a star on Hollywood’s Walk of Fame in 1975.
She won numerous awards for her humanitarian work on behalf of
medical and other charitable causes.  Phyllis Ada Driver was born on July 17, 1917, in  Lima ,
 Ohio . The doctor who examined her mother initially thought she
was a tumor, she wrote in her 2005 autobiography, “Like a
Lampshade in a Whorehouse,” and her father told him to “leave
it in.” She said her father never showed her much more
affection after she was born.  Lost Job  She studied classical piano at the  Sherwood Conservatory of
Music  and received a bachelor’s degree in music education from
 Blufton College . She was planning to teach music until she
married Sherwood Anderson Diller in 1939. She stayed home to
raise five children in the  San Francisco  suburbs.  By 1953, Diller’s husband had lost his job. She worked as a
copywriter at an Oakland department store and a writer/publicist
for a radio station to support the family.  Because she had performed skits at PTA events, her husband
encouraged her to try stand-up comedy. In March 1955, she gave
her first performance, at San Francisco’s  Purple Onion , a club
where many new comics were discovered.  Booked for two weeks, she stayed for 89, quitting her radio
job. Her time at the Purple Onion was threatened when several
male comics, jealous of her success, conspired to get her fired.  Carnegie Hall  Instead of lashing out, Diller thanked the club owner for
hiring her in the first place. The owner was confused by her
unexpectedly calm response and took her back a week later.  Helped by her TV appearances, she was hired to headline
major shows, including at  Carnegie Hall  and Madison Square
Garden in  New York City  and Caesar’s Palace and the Tropicana in
Las Vegas.  Diller credited Hope with starting her career. She appeared
in three movies with the comedian and in every one of his
Christmas specials from 1965 to 1994.  Diller made guest appearances as a classical piano soloist
with more than 100 symphony orchestras from 1971 to 1982. She
began painting in 1986 and created a studio after one work sold
for $5,000 at an auction.  Her film credits included “Splendor in the Grass” (1961),
and she performed on Broadway in “ Hello Dolly! ” (1970). She
wrote humor books, including “Phyllis Diller’s Housekeeping
Hints” (1966), and recorded comedy albums.  Last Performance  Diller and her first husband divorced in 1965. Her second
marriage, to Warde Donovan, ended in divorce in 1975. She had
five children: Peter III, Sally, Suzanne, Stephanie and Perry.
When daughter Sally was diagnosed with schizophrenia, Diller
battled to keep her at home. Eventually her daughter was
institutionalized.  She retired from stand-up comedy in 2002, giving her last
performance at the Suncoast Casino in  Las Vegas . She continued
to guest-star on TV shows such as “The Drew Carey Show” and
“The Bold and the Beautiful.”  Her autobiography, written with Richard Buskin, revealed
many of the private hardships Diller endured over the years,
adding fact to the fictional characters she created for her
routines.  She told the Wall Street Journal in 2005 that she had no
regrets that her stand-up days were over.  “I just wish I could think of something wonderful to say
before I kick the bucket,” she said. “My sense of humor will
be the last thing to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Burke in  New York  at 
 hburke2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  