-- Poland to Consider Rate Cut Next Month, BNP's Dybula Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-08-20T11:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/poland-to-consider-rate-cut-next-month-bnp-s-dybula-says.html
Poland ’s central bank, the only one
in the European Union to have raised borrowing costs this year,
will consider lowering them next month as growth and inflation
decelerate, said Michal Dybula, an economist at BNP Paribas SA.  While a motion to reduce rates filed at the next meeting of
the Monetary Policy Council on Sept. 4-5 will probably fail, it
may garner support from the majority of the 10 rate-setters in
October, Dybula, a Warsaw-based economist for central and
eastern  Europe , said in an Aug. 17 e-mail. The bank will cut
rates by 75 basis points to 4 percent by early 2013, he wrote.  Traders are betting the most in three years that Poland’s
central bank will lower  interest rates , according to forward-
rate agreements. Inflation, which slowed more than expected in
July, “disappointing” labor-market figures and “weakness” in
industrial output will persuade Governor  Marek Belka  and his
council members to reverse the May increase sooner rather than
later, Dybula said.  “The majority of the council will probably think it too
early to make a U-turn on policy,” he wrote. “However, the
longer the MPC hesitates, the more policy action it will need to
take later on.”  Forward-rate agreements used to bet on borrowing costs in
three months fell to 33 basis points below the Warsaw interbank
offered rate on Aug. 14, the biggest gap since 2009 and
signaling at least a quarter-point cut by mid-November,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The difference was 29
basis points as of 1:02 p.m. in Warsaw.  In July, Polish  jobs growth at companies  with more than
nine workers slowed to zero, a 27-month low, and wages rose a
less-than-forecast 2.4 percent from a year earlier, slowing from
4.3 percent in June. The inflation rate fell to 4 percent in
July after reaching a four-month high of 4.3 percent in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  