-- Private-Market Tooth Fairy Can’t Cut Medicare Cost
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-08-20T16:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/private-market-tooth-fairy-can-t-cut-medicare-cost.html
The vast bulk of health-care costs
arise from an extremely small share of patients, whose insurance
will inevitably bear a substantial share of their expenses.  That’s why competition in health care doesn’t work as well
as in other sectors, and it’s also why the key to keeping costs
to a minimum is to encourage providers to offer better, less
costly care in complex cases.  Unfortunately, proponents of moving Medicare to a private
“consumer-driven” system, including Republican vice presidential
hopeful  Paul Ryan , seem to instead believe in a health-care
competition tooth fairy -- that if we just increase the
patient’s share of costs and bolster competition among insurance
companies, the expense will come down. As  Karl Rove  recently
 argued , “Competition will lower costs by using market forces to
spur innovation and improvement.”  Someone might want to tell that to the  Congressional Budget
Office , which evaluated Ryan’s original 2011 proposal to
gradually move all of Medicare to private insurance companies.
(In all these comparisons, we must remember that the goal is to
reduce total cost -- to the government and the beneficiary
combined -- compared with current projections. Merely shifting
costs across the two categories is not a particularly impressive
accomplishment.)  What did the budget office  conclude ? “A private health
insurance plan covering the standardized benefit would, CBO
estimates, be more expensive currently than traditional
Medicare.” The reason was that “both administrative costs
(including profits) and payment rates to providers are higher
for private plans than for Medicare.” And that effect was larger
than any cost savings achieved by people getting less health
care. In any Rove-versus-CBO debate that involves economic
analysis, I’d put my money on the CBO.  When I pointed to this CBO analysis in  last week’s column ,
critics charged that I was being misleading because Ryan has
since updated his plan. I focused on the 2011 plan because that
is the only one that CBO has evaluated in terms of total, not
just federal, cost.  The difference in the new version of the Ryan plan is that
traditional Medicare would coexist with private plans. To
suggest that this would change everything is to make an odd
argument: Moving entirely to private competition would not
generate big savings, but moving partially would.  In any case, we already have a system similar in some ways
to the revised Ryan proposal. Almost 30 percent of Medicare
beneficiaries are  covered  by private insurers through the
Medicare Advantage program, which exists alongside traditional
Medicare. So what can we learn about the potential impact of the
Ryan proposal from our experience to date with Medicare
Advantage plans?  Reihan Salam, a commentator for the National Review, has
correctly argued that in evaluating Medicare Advantage plans, we
should look not at what the private insurers are actually paid
(which is set by legislation) but rather at how much they are
willing to be paid (in the form of the bids they submit to cover
beneficiaries).  In 2012, Medicare Advantage bids have come in on average a
bit below traditional Medicare costs, analysis by the Medicare
Payment Advisory Committee shows. Even more relevant to the
revised Ryan plan is that, in 2009, the second-lowest bid in
each U.S. county -- which is what the new plan would be based on
-- was an average of 9 percent below traditional Medicare, a new
 analysis  in the Journal of the American Medical Association
shows.  As Salam  wrote , “we have new research which finds that had
competitive bidding been in place in 2009, it would have reduced
Medicare expenditures by at least 9 percent while preserving
access to the Medicare defined benefit for all beneficiaries.”
The Wall Street Journal editorial page  cited  the same analysis
and made the same point. Case closed?  No, because there’s very good reason to believe that the 9
percent differential is a mirage -- and that experience to date
does not support claims that private plans in Medicare lower
costs.  To see why, imagine two beneficiaries. One has medical
expenses amounting to $150 and the other, $50. The average cost
is $100. Now imagine that a private plan bids $90 to cover
beneficiaries, so it looks to be about 10 percent cheaper than
traditional Medicare. That plan, however, while it is designed
to be very attractive to the $50 beneficiary, isn’t appealing to
the $150 one, so that person stays in traditional Medicare.  The result is that total costs rise from $200 ($150 for the
expensive beneficiary plus $50 for the inexpensive one) to $240
($150 for the expensive beneficiary plus $90 for the inexpensive
one). So even though the plan “looks” like it saves money, it
doesn’t. It overpays to cover the $50 beneficiary. (And that’s
not even taking into account another factor: that if Medicare’s
purchasing power is splintered, its negotiating leverage will be
reduced. So the prices it must pay could rise. That would drive
up the cost of covering the $150 beneficiary, pushing the total
above $240.)  To counteract the selection effect on Medicare Advantage
plans, a risk-adjustment process is used. The system has
improved over time, but evidence suggests it still does not work
very well. The models used to adjust payments can account for
only about 10 percent of subsequent cost variation; even the
most optimistic estimates suggest they could account for only 20
percent to 25 percent of the variation. This gap allows plans
that can better predict beneficiary costs to game the system by
selecting beneficiaries who are expected to cost much less than
their risk-adjusted payments. (Plans do not always want the
least-expensive beneficiaries, but rather those who are the
least expensive compared with their risk-adjusted payment. The
implication is the same, though: Plans can beat the risk
adjustment, and be overpaid.)  How big is this selection effect in Medicare Advantage? The
evidence suggests it’s huge. The most careful analysis was
reported in a 2011 National Bureau of Economic Research  paper  by
Jason Brown of the Treasury Department,  Mark Duggan  of the
 University of Pennsylvania , Ilyana Kuziemko of Princeton and
William Woolston of  Stanford University . In 2006, Medicare
Advantage plans were overpaid by more than $3,000 per
beneficiary because they were able to select beneficiaries who
cost less than their risk-adjusted payments. About $1,000 of
that overpayment reflects what the plans were paid, rather than
what they bid. So relative to their bids, the plans were
overpaid by $2,000 per beneficiary -- or roughly 25 percent of
the bid, on average.  That overpayment rate, furthermore, is likely to be higher
for the second-lowest bid in each county, and it is therefore
likely to be larger than the much-touted 9 percent discount,
which doesn’t appropriately account for the selection effects.  The bottom line is that, if anything, Medicare Advantage
bids are above, not below, traditional Medicare -- once you do
the analysis correctly, on an apples-to-apples basis. So
regardless of whether you use the CBO analysis of Ryan 1.0, or
the evidence to date with Medicare Advantage to analyze Ryan
2.0, the conclusion is the same.  We don’t want to put all our chips down on the health-care
competition tooth fairy.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Putin’s failed show trial  and
on how your  taxes are going up ; William D. Cohan on the  SEC’s
treatment of whistleblowers ;  Albert R. Hunt  on why  voter turnout 
will be critical in November;  Simon Johnson  on the  real
opportunity for conservatives  this fall; Elena Marks on why even
governors in opposition should set up  state insurance exchanges .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 