-- Prudential Joins AIG Taking Annuities Share From MetLife
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-20T18:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/prudential-joins-aig-taking-annuities-share-from-metlife.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  grabbed a bigger share of the
U.S. variable-annuity market as  MetLife Inc. (MET)  reduced sales of
the equity-linked retirement products.  Prudential, the top seller of  variable annuities  this year,
boosted its market share to 14 percent in the second quarter
from 11 percent a year earlier as sales rose 18 percent to $5.35
billion, according to data released today by trade group Limra.
Sales at bailed-out insurer AIG jumped 22 percent to $2.34
billion, increasing its share of the market to 6.1 percent.  “Sales benefited from actions taken by several key
competitors that made our products relatively more attractive,”
Mark Grier, vice chairman of Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential, said on an Aug. 2 conference call with analysts.
“We are comfortable with our sales level.”  U.S. second-quarter  sales  of variable annuities fell about
4.9 percent from a year earlier to $38.6 billion, Limra said.
MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, scaled back sales while
 Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) ,  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) 
and Sun Life Financial Inc. are retreating from the products.  Variable-annuity sales at New York-based MetLife fell 34
percent to $4.61 billion from a year earlier, cuttings its
portion of the market to 12 percent from 17 percent. MetLife was
the third-largest seller of the products in the second quarter.
Jackson National, a U.S. unit of Prudential Plc, the U.K.’s
biggest insurer, was second with sales of $5.26 billion.  MetLife’s Strategy  MetLife Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  is
focusing on emerging-market growth and sales of accident and
health protection in the U.S. MetLife and Prudential Financial
have lowered some guarantees and changed policy terms to limit
risk.  AIG introduced a variable annuity this year with an
investment option designed to limit market swings and fees tied
to  volatility , which has reduced risk, Jay Wintrob, CEO of AIG’s
SunAmerica life unit, said on an Aug. 3 conference call with
analysts.  “Sales growth was driven by our new product,” Wintrob
said. “You should expect us to continue managing risk through
product design and redesign and maintaining an effective hedging
program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  