-- Putin Front Seeks to Repatriate $100 Billion From Officials
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-08-20T14:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/putin-s-front-seeks-to-repatriate-100-billion-from-officials.html
Russian  lawmakers  loyal to President
 Vladimir Putin  submitted an anti-corruption bill they hope will
lead to the repatriation of $100 billion in assets held by
officials, the lead author said.  “We are introducing new and very strict rules of the
game,” State Duma Deputy Vyacheslav Lysakov said by phone in
Moscow today. “People shouldn’t go into state service to become
rich, but to serve the country.”  The bill would ban officials, their wives and minor
children from owning property, stock or bank accounts abroad,
said Lysakov, a leader of  People’s Front , the movement Putin
created for December’s parliamentary elections that now caucuses
with the ruling United Russia party. The bill applies to all
state employees, including lawmakers, bureaucrats, prosecutors
and police officers, though the list may be expanded to include
senior management of state-run companies such as  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  and
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , he said.  Putin has made the fight against corruption a priority in
his third term as president, saying in April that he supports a
plan to monitor personal spending by senior officials. Russia is
the world’s most corrupt major economy and ranks alongside
 Nigeria  at 143rd of 182 countries in Berlin-based Transparency
International’s 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index.  National Security  Alexander Lebedev, the billionaire newspaper owner under
investigation for hooliganism in Moscow, said this month that he
has evidence of Russian officials stealing tens of billions of
dollars that he plans to share with investigators in countries
including Russia, the U.S. and U.K.  Lebedev helps fund Alexey Navalny, an anti-corruption
activist and opposition leader who published documents on his
website last month alleging the country’s top investigator,
 Alexander Bastrykin , held Czech residency from 2007 to 2009 and
bought property in the country, raising concern foreign agents
could exert influence over his work.  Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said July 28 that the
attorney general would look into the claim. Bastrykin said in an
interview with the Izvestia newspaper that he didn’t violate any
laws. An analysis of personal income declarations published in
the Vedomosti newspaper today showed that more than 100 senior
officials own property in at least 26 countries.  Russians spent $12 billion on foreign property last year,
compared with $5.5 billion a year in 2007 and 2008, central bank
Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said April 5. Net capital outflows more
than doubled last year to $80.5 billion, central bank  data  show.  ‘More Loyal’  “This law is populist and may calm down public opinion,”
said  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a Moscow-based political analyst
who’s also a United Russia member. “It makes officials more
loyal because they would know that they could be prosecuted if
they aren’t loyal.”  Prohibiting officials from having overseas assets would
improve national security by making them more independent and
less susceptible to pressure from abroad, Lysakov said.  “Decisions will be fully independent because there won’t
be anything with which to punish the people who make them,”
Lysakov said. “People in power should invest in the motherland
and not in foreign countries.”  Violators of the legislation would face as many as five
years in prison or a fine of as much as 10 million rubles
($310,000), Lysakov said, adding that the bill may be voted on
in the fall session. Offering an amnesty for officials and
business people who repatriate ill-gotten gains is also being
considered, he said.  “We can return a colossal amount of money to  Russia ,”
Lysakov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  