-- Qantas’s Joyce Forgoes Bonus as Australian Executives Drop Pay
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-08-20T03:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/qantas-s-joyce-forgoes-bonus-as-australian-executives-drop-pay.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  Chief Executive
Officer Alan Joyce will forgo his bonus and pay rise this year,
adding to a list of Australian executives who have lost out as
local companies post losses and write down assets.  Joyce, who received share-based bonus payments of A$2.7
million ($2.8 million) according to last year’s annual report,
won’t take his bonus, spokesman Thomas Woodward said by
telephone today. Australia’s largest carrier has forecast its
first annual loss in 17 years as a publicly traded company when
it reports results on Aug. 23.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers 
and petroleum business CEO Mike Yeager said Aug. 4 they would
give up bonuses as the company announced $3.3 billion in charges
on gas and nickel assets. The  S&P/ASX 200 index (AS51)  has returned
about 6.3 percent over the past year, compared with a 14.4
percent gain for the U.K.’s FTSE-100 index and a 21.5 percent
return for the S&P 500 index in the U.S., according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “That executives don’t receive bonuses when shareholders
are on their knees is exactly how the system should work,” Dean
Paatsch, co-founder of corporate governance advisory group
Ownership Matters, said by phone from Melbourne. “Giving up
bonuses is a gesture that’s open to every executive. Very few
take it so good luck to those that do.”  Paul O’Malley, chief executive officer of the country’s
largest steelmaker  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , said last week he won’t
get his annual bonus this year as the company battles a rising
Australian dollar and lower domestic steel prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  