-- Qihoo Jumps to Two-Month High on Bets Outlook to Beat Estimates
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-20T19:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/qihoo-jumps-to-two-month-high-on-bets-outlook-to-beat-estimates.html
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , maker of
 China ’s most-used Web browser, jumped to the highest level in
two months on prospects its outlook for third-quarter sales will
beat analysts’ estimates.  American depositary receipts of Qihoo surged 9.6 percent to
$20.31, the highest level since June 7, as of 3:42 p.m. in New
York.  The Beijing-based company, which also makes China’s most-
used web browser, started an online search engine last week for
public testing, co-Chief Financial Officer Alex Xu said in a
phone interview on Aug. 15, adding the product may eventually
generate advertising sales.  “Some postings on discussion forums over the weekend have
stated that Qihoo’s new search engine has diverted more traffic
to some company websites than Sohu’s search engine,” Henry Guo,
an analyst at ThinkEquity Partners LLC, said by phone from  San
Francisco . “This helped dispel earlier concerns that Qihoo may
not have the technical ability to develop a search engine
successfully. I also expect its second-quarter sales to be at
the top end of its guidance.”  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  owns China’s third-biggest online search
engine while Baidu Inc. has the biggest.  Qihoo forecast on May 22 that second-quarter sales would
jump as much as 108 percent to $73 million. It is scheduled to
report the results tomorrow after U.S. markets close.  Qihoo’s third-quarter sales guidance may exceed analysts’
average estimates, mainly driven by its games and advertising
business, Tian X. Hou, the founder of T.H. Capital LLC in China,
said in a research note today.  “QIHU can easily convert its browser users into search
engine users. The expansion into the search area could be a
strong positive for the company’s growth in the foreseeable
future,” Hou wrote.  The company’s third-quarter sales may rise 64 percent from
a year ago to $77.8 million, according to the  average estimate 
of eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Hou and ThinkEquity’s Guo both maintained buy
recommendations on Qihoo’s stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  