-- Republicans Prepared for Long-Shot Hurricane at Tampa Convention
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-20T18:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/republicans-prepared-for-long-shot-hurricane-at-tampa-convention.html
Four years after a hurricane in
Louisiana forced Republicans to make changes to their convention
1,300 miles away in Minnesota, they’ll nominate their next
presidential candidate in Florida, among the most hurricane-
prone states in the country.  Few hurricanes have hit Tampa, home to the  Republican
National Convention  that starts Aug. 27, and odds are low it
will happen during the four-day event when the party nominates
 Mitt Romney  as its challenger to Democratic President  Barack Obama . In one projection, a low-pressure system moving across
the Atlantic develops into a tropical storm and makes landfall
in Tampa during the convention, said  Jeff Masters , founder of
the Ann Arbor, Michigan-based  Weather Underground .
Meteorologists say predictions are unreliable more than a week
in advance.  Still, Republicans say they have plans in case of a
hurricane. The most violent storm to hit Tampa sent 15 feet of
water over land that is now home to the Tampa Bay Convention
Center, Masters said. The center will hold 15,000 media members
next week.  The Tampa Bay Times Forum, site of the convention itself,
is in a mandatory evacuation zone once storms reach 96 mph, a
Category 2 on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale, according to
the Hillsborough County Hurricane Guide.  Louisiana Jinx  In 2008, Republicans cut some convention activities in  St.
Paul , Minnesota, as Hurricane Gustav made landfall near
Cocodrie, Louisiana. Gustav struck three years after Republican
President  George W. Bush  drew blame for his administration’s
response to  Hurricane Katrina , which ravaged  New Orleans  and the
Gulf Coast.  “We’re going to make sure the 50,000 people coming to
Florida are kept safe,” said James Davis, a convention
spokesman. “We have contingency plans for a broad range of
things that are out of our control.”  Davis refused to disclose details and referred questions to
the U.S. Secret Service. George Ogilvie, a Secret Service
spokesman, did not return an e-mail seeking comment.  Republicans picked other states ahead of Florida three
times citing storm concerns, said Al Austin, a Tampa developer
who led efforts to lure the convention. He said his “fingers
are crossed.”  “Weather is a concern everywhere,” Austin said. “In
 California  there are earthquakes. You can have tornadoes without
any notice in the Midwest. We see forest fires across the
West.”  Respect the Model  There is between a 1 percent and 2 percent chance of a
tropical storm hitting Tampa next week, Masters said today in an
interview. He put the odds of a hurricane striking the city at
0.2 percent.  “This system out there has definitely increased the odds,
but it’s way too early to assign definite risks,” Masters said.
“The fact that there is a model making landfall over Florida is
something we have to respect.”  A low-pressure area, dubbed 94L by the National Hurricane
Center, is moving west across the Atlantic and may become a
tropical system.  “There is absolutely no way to determine what, if any,
impacts 94L might have on the U.S, let alone any specific
location such as Tampa,” said  Dennis Feltgen , a spokesman for
the Miami-based center.  The last hurricane to hit Tampa was Major Hurricane Five in
1946, before the storms were given human names, according to
Weather Underground’s website.  The worst hurricane to strike Tampa was the Great Gale of
1848, Masters said. The waves swept away wharves and buildings
and toppled trees, Masters wrote on his blog, citing “Florida’s
Hurricane History,” a book by Jay Barnes.  The most active period in the  Atlantic hurricane season  is
from Aug. 20 to Oct. 20 with the statistical peak occurring on
Sept. 10, according to the Hurricane Center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  