-- Republican Platform Panel Backs Blanket Ban on Abortion
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-08-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/republican-platform-won-t-protect-mortgage-tax-deduction.html
Republican drafters of their party’s
2012 platform reaffirmed support for a constitutional amendment
banning abortion that would allow no exception for terminating
pregnancies caused by rape.  Concluding two days of deliberations in Tampa yesterday,
the platform committee completed a 60-page draft of political
positions and principles that will be submitted for adoption
when the  Republican National Convention  begins Aug. 27 in the
Florida city.  Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell, the panel’s chairman,
and other leaders sought to emphasize the document’s focus on
proposals to promote economic growth as the party dealt with a
political storm stirred by a comment about rape by the
Republican candidate for  U.S. Senate  in  Missouri .  The draft “reflects the views of the grassroots leaders”
of the party and “affirms our belief in traditional values, but
spends an enormous amount of time and energy on how to get the
greatest country on Earth out of debt and back to work,”
McDonnell told reporters after the Committee on Resolutions
completed the platform draft.  The party’s advocacy of a blanket ban on abortion, while
not new, gained attention in the wake of the Aug. 19 comment by
Todd Akin, the Republican running against Democratic incumbent
 Claire McCaskill  in Missouri’s Senate race, that “legitimate
rape” rarely leads to pregnancy. Akin, a U.S. House member who
has since apologized for the remark, made it as he argued that
abortion shouldn’t be allowed in cases of rape.  ‘Absolutely Wrong’  Akin has ignored calls from  Mitt Romney , the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee, and other party leaders that he
end his Senate candidacy.  McDonnell said yesterday that “any indication other than
we should strongly support the laws that protect women from
violence are just absolutely wrong.” He defended the wording of
the platform language on abortion, saying that “while we affirm
our support for human life,” the “specific policies” of how
the ban would apply “ought to be left to the states.”  With no floor debate, the panel adopted language contained
in the 2004 and 2008 Republican platforms that said an “unborn
child has a fundamental individual right to life that cannot be
infringed.”  Romney, a one-time advocate of abortion rights, has
stressed his opposition to it in recent comments. Still, the
platform is somewhat at odds with his view. In a  “pro-life
pledge”  posted last year on the National Review magazine’s
website, he wrote that “I am pro-life and believe that abortion
should be limited to only instances of rape, incest, or to save
the life of the mother.”  ‘Morning-After’ Pill  Akin’s name was invoked by a delegate during yesterday’s
debate before the platform panel approved a provision advocating
a ban on drugs that terminate pregnancies, such as RU-486.  Alabama delegate Jacqueline Curtiss sought -- and received
-- reassurance that the provision wouldn’t apply to “morning-after” pills given to rape victims. Curtiss said she raised the
concern “in light of the recent comments by Congressman Todd
Akin and in an attempt to reaffirm to the American people the
party’s sensitivity the subject of rape.”  The platform committee did add several new abortion
provisions, including one that would ban government subsidies
for employer-sponsored health insurance that offers abortion
services.  Abstinence Support  The panel reiterated the Republican Party position that
abstinence is the only type of “family planning” education
that should be funded by the government for teenagers.  Over the objection of some of its members, the panel also
backed a provision requiring parental approval of medical care
for children and teenagers for non-life threatening illnesses.  “It’s time that parents be in the driver’s seat” in “the
health-care decisions of their children,” said Idaho delegate
Gayann DeMordaunt.  Hawaii delegate Philip Hellreich, a physician, said the
parental-approval provision would discourage teenagers from
seeking treatment for sexually transmitted diseases.  “It would  be horrible if physicians were denied the
ability to treat those kinds of patients,” Hellreich said.  In its debates, the panel focused on measures to reduce the
size, scope and cost of the federal government and to promote
tax simplification. The proposed platform advocates a balanced-budget constitutional amendment and a requirement that Congress
could only raise taxes with super majorities of the House and
Senate, except in times of war or national emergency.  Budget Issue  More delegates “are really concerned about our budgets and
about spending” and entitlement programs such as Medicare, with
little “desire to weigh in deeply on these social issues when
you’ve got literally the $16 trillion debt hanging over” the
country, said Russ Walker, an Oregon delegate affiliated with
the anti-tax Tea Party movement.  “There’s the old saying, which is a girl is less likely to
have an abortion if she feels like she can raise a child,”
Walker said in an interview.  Other planks would require an annual audit of the  Federal
Reserve  and call for creation of a commission to “consider the
feasibility” of returning the  U.S. dollar  to the gold standard
“to set a fixed value” for the currency. Romney repeated
yesterday his backing for an audit of the Fed as the platform
panel began its deliberations.  The platform endorsed revamping Medicare, a proposal pushed
by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , the Wisconsin
congressman Romney tapped to be his vice-presidential running
mate.  Transition Backed  “While retaining the option of Medicare in competition
with private plans” the platform called for “transition to a
premium-support model for Medicare,” which would give
recipients an income-adjusted subsidy to buy insurance.  Medicare should “change from an unsustainable defined-benefit entitlement model” to the “defined contribution
model,” the platform draft said. And a “more realistic”
eligibility age than the current standard of 65 should be set to
reflect “today’s longer life span,” the document said.  The draft version doesn’t directly advocate reviving the
“Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy toward homosexuals in the
military abandoned by Obama after almost two decades. The
committee approved language saying the party rejects “the use
of the military as a platform for social experimentation and
will not accept attempts to undermine military priorities and
mission readiness.”  The 2008 platform referred to “the incompatibility of
homosexuality with military service.”  The platform committee rejected a motion to recognize civil
unions for gay couples.  The  Democratic Party ’s 2012 proposed platform was amended
on Aug. 11 to include a plank supporting same-sex marriage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Tampa, Florida at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  