-- Roger Clemens Returning to Pitch for Minor-League Baseball Team
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-08-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/roger-clemens-agrees-to-pitch-for-minor-league-baseball-team.html
Roger Clemens , who won a record
seven Cy Young Awards in a 24-season Major League Baseball
career tainted by allegations of steroid use, will pitch for the
minor-league  Sugar Land Skeeters  in Texas this weekend.  Clemens, 50, will be in uniform on Aug. 24 and pitch the
following night at home against Bridgeport,  Christopher Hill ,
the Skeeters’ vice president of business development, said in a
telephone interview. The independent team bills itself as the
Houston area’s minor-league club, and Clemens is a Texas native.  “It’s a one-game thing with the Skeeters and we will go
from there,” Randy Hendricks, Clemens’s agent, said in an e-
mail. “If he does well, he would probably pitch one more game
for them.”  Former New York Yankees right-hander Clemens in June was
found not guilty of lying to Congress about his use of
performance-enhancing drugs. A federal jury of eight women and
four men in Washington acquitted Clemens of all six counts he
faced. Over a nine-week trial, 46 witnesses testified, including
former teammate  Andy Pettitte , Clemens’s wife, and his chief
accuser and decade-long trainer,  Brian McNamee .  The player has denied using steroids and human-growth
hormone since a 2007 report by former U.S. Senator  George Mitchell  accused him of using the drugs in 1998, 2000 and 2001.  Clemens, who also pitched for the Boston Red Sox, Toronto
Blue Jays and Houston Astros, will join a roster that includes
former big-league pitcher Scott Kazmir.  Charges Faced  Clemens was acquitted of one count of obstructing a
congressional probe into the use of performance-enhancing drugs
by major league players. He also was found not guilty of three
counts of making false statements to congressional investigators
and two counts of perjury stemming from his public testimony to
a House panel.  Clemens pitched until he was 44. He left the game after the
2007 season with a 354-184 record, a 3.12 earned run average and
4,672 strikeouts, a total that in major league history has been
exceeded only by  Nolan Ryan  and  Randy Johnson .  The Skeeters are 18-19, third in the Freedom Division of
the Atlantic League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  