-- Romney Builds Cash Edge Over Obama as Conventions Near
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-08-21T19:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/romney-raised-40-million-last-month-for-presidential-run.html
Presumptive presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney  and his Republican allies entered August, and the
final weeks before the national conventions, with more money to
spend than President  Barack Obama  and the Democrats.  Romney, the  Republican National Committee  and two allied
super-political action committees reported a combined bank
account balance of $169 million on July 31. That compared with
$107 million for the president, the  Democratic National
Committee  and the pro-Obama Priorities USA Action. The figures
are based on disclosures filed yesterday with the  Federal
Election Commission .  Standing alone, the president’s campaign committee raised
more money than Romney’s last month and had more cash on hand.  “Romney’s money is going to be unleashed as soon as he
becomes the nominee,” said  Tobe Berkovitz , a professor of
communication at  Boston University . “What this is going to do
is give Romney the ability to spend massive amounts of money on
advertising and field operations. This is going to quickly level
the playing field between the two campaigns.”  In the last tally of campaign cash before the national
party conventions, Obama brought in $49.2 million to $40.3
million for Romney in July. The Republican National Committee
overcame that deficit by itself, raising $37.9 million, while
its Democratic counterpart reported $10 million in receipts.  Cash Advantage  Likewise, the Republican committee’s cash-on-hand advantage
of $88.8 million to $15.4 million for the Democratic National
Committee more than overcame Obama’s edge over Romney. The Obama
campaign committee reported $87.7 million in its bank account
entering August compared with $30.2 million for Romney.  Super-PACs padded Romney’s financial advantage. Restore Our
Future, which raised $7.5 million last month, reported $20.5
million in the bank, and American Crossroads, founded with the
help of former President  George W. Bush ’s chief political
adviser  Karl Rove , brought in $7.1 million and had $29.5 million
left to spend. Priorities USA Action, founded by former Obama
aides, brought in $4.8 million and had a bank balance of $4.2
million.  Priorities USA Action raised a total of $25.5 million for
the campaign, less than one-third the $89.7 million that Restore
Our Future took in.  The Republican convention begins Aug. 27 in Tampa, Florida,
and the Democratic convention is the following week in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  Fundraising Sprint  In advance of his nomination, Romney is crisscrossing the
country for one final fundraising sprint. A dinner reception
last night in Metairie, Louisiana, a wealthy suburb of  New
Orleans , cost $50,000 per person and was hosted by Senator  David Vitter , Governor  Bobby Jindal  and New Orleans Saints owner Tom Benson. Romney was in Houston today to raise money from the oil
industry.  A senior Romney aide speaking on condition of anonymity
said Romney will focus more on public events after the
convention and do less fundraising, putting pressure on the
campaign to raise as much as possible this month.  So far, Obama’s campaign committee has brought in about
twice as much as Romney, $356.5 million to $197 million.  Contributors to Obama’s campaign last month included
employees of the auditing and consulting firm Deloitte LLP, who
gave $190,359, and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  employees who contributed
$60,634, according to a Bloomberg News computer-assisted
analysis of FEC data.  Google Contributes  Employees of Mountain View, California-based Google and
their families are among the top five sources of contributions
to Obama’s presidential campaign, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that
tracks donations.  The Romney campaign continued to rely heavily on financial
industry donations, the computer analysis showed. He received
$114,200 last month from employees of New York-based  MetLife
Inc. (MET) , $47,470 from  Bank of America Corp.  employees and $35,249
from employees of New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which
has been his largest source of campaign contributions, according
to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Charlotte-based Bank of America’s name is on the stadium
where Obama will deliver his acceptance speech at the Democratic
convention Sept. 6.  Obama Spending  Obama spent $59 million in July, about $10 million more
than he took in during the month. Much of that money went for
television ads. Between July 15 and Aug. 13, Obama spent an
estimated $23.6 million on 63,735 commercials, according to
Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks  television advertising . Romney
spent an estimated $10.9 million on 27,179 spots during the same
period. In all, the former Massachusetts governor spent $32.7
million on his campaign last month.  Since the start of the presidential campaign last year,
Obama has outspent Romney $270.6 million to $166.8 million.  “You perhaps noticed in the paper, we’re a little wiser in
our spending of dollars than the other side apparently,” Romney
told about 100 donors at the Houston fundraiser. “We’re going
to spend our money wisely. We’re going to spend it to win.”  Restore Our Future received another $2 million from Houston
homebuilder Bob Perry, bringing his total donations to $8
million. New York-based Renco Group Inc., whose subsidiaries
include Humvee manufacturer AM General LLC, gave $1 million.  Muneer Satter, who in June announced his retirement as a
partner at Goldman Sachs, gave $120,000. Satter has served as a
co-chairman of Romney’s national finance committee.  American Crossroads received a total of $2 million from
Texas businessman Robert Rowling and his Irving-based company,
TRT Holdings Inc.  Robert Mercer , co-chief executive officer of
hedge fund Renaissance Technologies LLC in East Setauket, New
York, gave $1 million; Mercer was the primary funder of another
pro-Republican super-PAC, Concerned Taxpayers of America, in
2010, and donated $1 million to Restore Our Future in 2011.  Priorities USA Action received $1 million from Philadelphia
real estate developer Mel Heifetz and $750,000 from New York
architect Jon Stryker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 