-- Rubber Seen Dropping as Chinese Inventories May Equal Record
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-20T11:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/rubber-seen-dropping-as-chinese-inventories-set-to-equal-record.html
Rubber is poised to drop as
sustained supplies from  Southeast Asia  and falling demand from
 China ’s tiremakers push stockpiles to match their record at
Qingdao port, the main shipment hub, an industry executive said.
Futures fell for the first time in four days.  Inventories in the bonded zone, where traders store
deliveries before paying duties, will probably climb to 250,000
metric tons by end-August from 240,000 tons last week, Li Xiangou, chairman at the Qingdao International Rubber Exchange
Market, said in an Aug. 17 interview. China accounts for 33
percent of global demand and tires represent 70 percent of
natural-rubber consumption in the country. Reserves last reached
250,000 tons in mid-January, he said.  Rubber traded in  Tokyo  has plunged 59 percent from a record
in February 2011, cutting costs for tire makers such as
 Bridgestone Corp. (5108) ,  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  and Michelin & Cie
as the economy slowed in China, the world’s largest auto market,
and  Europe  struggled to contain its debt crisis. Thailand,
Indonesia and Malaysia, the top three shippers, agreed to cut
exports by 300,000 tons in a bid to boost prices.  “So far there’s no bright spot in the local rubber market
wherever you look,” said Li. “Demand is dropping due to a weak
auto market while shipments from Southeast Asia are streaming in
at the usual pace.” Prices may drop further this month and in
September, he said.  The northeastern port of Qingdao is in Shandong province,
which produces about half of China’s tire output, according to
data compiled by  Sri Trang Agro-Industry Pcl (STA) , Thailand’s largest
publicly traded rubber exporter.  ‘Too Pessimistic’  Rubber for January delivery fell as much as 1.8 percent to
217 yen a kilogram ($2,730 a ton) before settling at 219.40 yen
today. That follows a three-day gain of 6.5 percent. Futures
reached a record 535.7 yen on Feb. 18 last year and dropped to
the lowest level since October 2009 on Aug. 14.  “One can be too pessimistic these days after the recent
sell off,” Li Shiqiang, general manager at the China unit of
Sri Trang Agro, said in Qingdao Aug. 17. “Once sentiment
recovers, tiremakers will replenish their inventories, boosting
demand, and a sharp fall in prices will also trigger government
actions in producing countries.”  Thailand , Indonesia and Malaysia, which represent about 70
percent of global  supplies , plan to cut down aging trees across
100,000 hectares (247,105 acres). The move, combined with the
export cut, will remove 450,000 tons from the market, the
International Tripartite Rubber Council, which represents state
agencies and exporters, said in a statement Aug. 16.  ‘Bear Market’  The increase in Qingdao stockpiles is partly because Thai
shippers reduced direct sales to some Chinese buyers because of
contract difficulties and prefer to store supplies at warehouses
there instead, according to Pongsak Kerdvongbundit, honorary
president of the Thai Rubber Association. They deliver to
customers once they receive payment, he said.  “We are in the long painful process of a  bear market  due
to the global economic recession,” Tang Lizhi, president for
the China region at Okachi ( Shanghai ) Co., the unit of the
largest rubber broker on Tocom. “The bear market will last for
a while, with a sporadic rebound along the way whenever China
cuts  interest rates  or reduces banks’ reserve requirements.”  Potential Stimulus   Governments from the U.S. to China may take new measures to
stimulate growth, boosting demand for commodities. Premier  Wen
Jiabao  said easing inflation provides room to adjust monetary
policy, state television reported last week. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may talk about monetary options at a
conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , at the end of the month.
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  has signaled  Germany ’s support for a
European Central Bank plan to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  Rubber may find a “bottom” in the fourth quarter after
the  U.S. presidential election  and China’s party congress, said
Li of the Qingdao International Rubber Exchange Market.  China’s economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year ago, the slowest pace in three years. Truck sales
fell 10 percent in July from a month earlier, China Automotive
Information Network data show. Passenger-vehicle sales trailed
analysts’ estimates for the first time in five months.  “Many Chinese tire makers are mired in high inventories of
end-products right now,” Li said. “They have moderated their
raw material purchases.”  Warehouses ‘Full’  Declining truck sales and slowing growth will cut demand
for heavy-duty tires, reducing total natural-rubber demand by 5
percent this year, according to Shen Jinrong, chairman at the
biggest tiremaker Hangzhou Zhongce Rubber Co. A tire for a
medium to heavy commercial vehicle uses as much as 18 kilograms
(40 pounds) of natural rubber on average, compared with less
than 1 kilogram for a passenger car, according to Jeremie Capron, an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in  Singapore .  “The warehouses are so full that the dealers are dumping
the new shipments at a discount to the tire factories because
they can’t find storage for them,” Li said. “I think the year-
on-year reduction will be more than the 5 percent estimated by
Zhongce,” he said, without giving an exact figure.  Global natural-rubber supply will exceed demand for a third
year in 2013, according to RCMA Commodities Asia Group in
Singapore. Production will top usage by 299,000 tons, from a
surplus of 321,000 tons this year and 4,000 tons in 2011,
according to Chief Executive Officer Chris Pardey, a former
commodities trader at Cargill Inc. and Noble Group Ltd.  Consumption may rise 2.5 percent to 11.2 million tons in
2012 as output grows 3.2 percent to 11.3 million tons, the
International Rubber Study Group said last month. Demand will
probably climb 4.3 percent to 11.7 million tons next year as
production gains 4.4 percent to 11.8 million tons, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  