-- Russia Stocks Head for Biggest Drop This Month on China Concern
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-08-20T10:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/russia-s-micex-index-drops-most-in-three-weeks-on-china-concerns.html
Russian stocks headed for their
biggest decline this month as steelmakers slid on concern  China 
will hold off easing monetary policy, damping investors’
appetite for commodities.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  fell 1 percent to 1,429.59 by 1:46 p.m. in
Moscow, set for the biggest one-day drop since July 31. OAO
Novolipetsk Steel and OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel slid more
than 1.7 percent. OAO RusHydro,  Russia ’s largest hydropower
company, tumbled 2.3 percent, the biggest decliner on the
benchmark. Coal producer OAO Raspadskaya gained 0.5 percent.  Chinese new-home prices climbed in 49 of 70 cities tracked
by the government, the most since May of last year, the National
Bureau of Statistics said Aug. 18. The  state bank  has no
intention of cutting lenders’ reserve requirements in the short
term, as suggested by a cash injection last week, according to a
weekend commentary in the central bank newspaper Financial News.  “The situation in China is causing investor concern, it’s
unclear whether there will be more monetary easing,” Dmitry Postolenko, who manages $110 million in Russian assets at
Kapital Asset Management LCC in Moscow, said by phone. “Russia
depends on commodity prices and China is a very important player
in that market.”  Mechel Retreats  The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  declined 0.9 percent to
1,404.59, falling for a second day.  OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s largest producer of coal for
steelmakers, dropped 1.5 percent to 210.30 rubles. President
 Vladimir Putin  said at a meeting with coal companies that
government agencies have to do “a lot” to cut corruption
during licensing of fields such as Mechel’s Elga coal deposit.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Commodity Index rose 0.3 percent to
669.41, heading for the highest level since May 2.  Crude oil, Russia’s chief export earner, was little changed
at $96.14 in  New York . Oil and gas contribute about 50 percent
of Russia’s state revenue.  Punk Band  A Moscow court on Aug. 17 found performers for the Pussy
Riot punk band guilty of hooliganism and inciting religious
hatred and sentenced three members to two years in prison for
performing a “punk prayer” in the country’s main Christian
Orthodox cathedral urging Putin’s removal.  “Investors are not happy with the Pussy Riot trial but
they are not surprised with the outcome,” Peter Westin, chief
strategist at Aton Capital in Moscow, said by phone.  Governments from the U.S. to  Europe  have condemned the
trial, while pop stars such as Madonna, Sting and  Paul McCartney , whom Putin invited to the Kremlin in 2003 before a
Red Square concert, have backed the band members.  The Micex trades at 5.3 times  estimated earnings  and has
rallied 1.9 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times and a 6 percent advance for the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  