-- Samsung’s Galaxy Nexus Copied IPhone Feature, Apple Says
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-08-20T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/samsung-sought-to-beat-iphone-with-galaxy-nexus-apple-says.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , sought to
steal market share by selling a Galaxy Nexus phone that copies a
feature that makes the iPhone’s Siri virtual personal assistant
so compelling, Apple Inc. told a U.S. appeals court.  “This was the beat-Apple strategy,” Apple lawyer  Mark Perry  of  Gibson Dunn , said yesterday in arguments before the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington .
“This was the top of the line, Cadillac phone they trotted out
to compete with the iPhone.”  Samsung, the world’s largest maker of smartphones, is
seeking to overturn an order to stop selling the Galaxy Nexus in
the U.S. until a patent-infringement case brought by Apple can
be held. The case, which involves different patents than those
at the heart of a trial under way in  San Jose ,  California , is
scheduled for trial in March 2014.  Samsung lawyer  John Quinn  said Apple, which has the biggest
share of the U.S. market, wasn’t harmed by the “minuscule”
sales of the Galaxy Nexus, so there’s no threat if the phone
remains on the market. Samsung also is appealing U.S. District
Judge Lucy Koh’s finding that Apple is likely to win the case,
and is challenging the validity of the patent.  The case is part of a global battle between Cupertino,
California-based Apple and Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung for
supremacy in the $219 billion global smartphone market. More
than 30 lawsuits have been filed between the two companies on
four continents, not counting lawsuits Apple has filed against
other makers of handsets that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system.  Pre-Trial Ban  A key issue in the arguments yesterday before the appeals
court was whether Apple must prove it lost market share to the
Galaxy Nexus to obtain a pre-trial ban on sales, and whether the
patented feature drove sales of either product.  Apple  reported  that it sold $16.2 billion worth of iPhones
in the third quarter ended June 30. By contrast, Quinn said,
Samsung sold $250 million of the Galaxy Nexus device in the
first two quarters it was on the market.  “This is a product that, at most, captured 0.5 percent of
the market,” Quinn said. “Nothing in the record here would
support a finding of irreparable harm” to Apple.  The patent is for a unified search feature that captures
results from multiple sources, such as the Internet and e-mail
contacts. Perry said that ability forms the heart of Siri,
because consumers like the comprehensive results they get when
they ask a question.  Quinn said many consumers didn’t even know the feature was
on the Samsung phones. It is the Android operating system that
customers chose, he said.  ‘Two-Horse Market’  The three-judge panel questioned whether the dominance
Apple and Samsung have should be a factor in the analysis.  “This is a two-horse market,” said Circuit Judge Jimmie Reyna. “It’s a two-horse and several ponies market.”  The Galaxy Nexus has remained on the market as Samsung
appeals the order to the Federal Circuit, which specializes in
U.S. patent law. The panel gave no indication yesterday when it
would rule.  The Galaxy Nexus is the first phone to run on the Ice Cream
Sandwich version of Android, the most popular platform for
mobile devices.  Mountain View , California-based Google, in an
Aug. 3 filing with the Federal Circuit, said Apple shouldn’t be
entitled to a ban on a smartphone based on allegations involving
a single feature.  The patent relates “at best, to a very minor aspect of the
Galaxy Nexus phone’s overall functionality which was never shown
to drive sales,” Google wrote.  ‘Substantial Investment’  Modern smartphones have thousands of features, and if
patent owners can block products based on a single invention,
all of the devices would be vulnerable to such orders and “the
design and manufacture of similarly complex technological
marvels would become economically infeasible,” Google wrote.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which sells the Galaxy Nexus, said in
a court filing that a ban “harms Sprint’s substantial
investment in its device portfolio” that can’t be filled for
nine to 12 months.  “It impacts the inventory of thousands of downstream
distribution points and it tarnishes Sprint’s reputation,”
Sprint said, calling itself an “unwitting victim” in the legal
battles over smartphones.  Samsung, which also counts Apple as its biggest  customer 
for phone components, began selling its first Android-based
smartphone in 2009. The Galaxy Nexus, first sold in December, is
used to market all of Samsung’s phones and build brand
awareness, Apple said.  Smartphone Switch  Apple said this is a critical period in the market as
consumers switch to smartphones in increasing numbers. The
smartphone market grew 62 percent last year and accounts for
$219 billion of the total $312 billion mobile-phone market,
according to data from Bloomberg Industries.  Apple has been gaining ground in the U.S., with 33 percent
of the U.S. market, according to research firm  Strategy
Analytics . Phones that run on the Android operating system
captured 56 percent of the market in the second quarter, down
four percentage points, the researcher said July 30.  Customers who buy a particular phone tend to stick with
that operating system, even on other devices, Perry said. A lost
iPhone sale also means less Apple revenue for things such as
applications and accessories, he said.  Circuit Judge Kimberly Moore, who said she loves the Siri
feature on her iPhone, urged both sides to ratchet down the tone
of their court filings.  “All this mudslinging and rhetoric -- I didn’t want to
read it,” she said. “I don’t know who drives the mudslinging,
the lawyers or the clients, but it turns off the judges.”  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-1507,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
lower court Galaxy Nexus case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  