-- Samsung CEO Said to Speak With Apple Today About Suit
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-20T12:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/samsung-ceo-said-to-speak-with-apple-today-about-suit.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s chief
executive officer will talk with his counterpart at Apple Inc.
to see whether they can resolve their smartphone patent dispute
before a U.S. jury begins deliberating, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The companies’ lawyers will report to U.S. District Judge
Lucy Koh in federal court in  San Jose ,  California , on the
outcome of today’s telephone discussion between Apple’s  Tim Cook 
and Samsung’s Kwon Oh Hyun, according to the person, who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, sued Samsung in
April 2011, accusing it of copying patented designs for mobile
devices, and Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung countersued. The
case is the first to go before a federal jury in a battle being
waged on four continents for dominance in a smartphone market
valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion.  As testimony in the trial drew to a close, Koh asked that
the CEOs talk, and said she was “pathologically optimistic”
they could settle claims over patents for smartphones and tablet
computers. Heads of the two companies met before the trial began
and were unable to reach a settlement. The two sides reported
Aug. 18 that they had made no progress in narrowing the claims
in the suit. The two sides are still filing motions with the
court about jury instructions and exhibits.  Damages Sought  Samsung is seeking as much as $399 million in royalties
from Apple for infringing its patents, according to court
testimony. Apple presented testimony that Samsung owed it
$2.5 billion to $2.75 billion in damages.  Deliberations could begin as soon as tomorrow, the judge
has said.  Nam Ki Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, declined
to comment on talks. Steve Dowling, a spokesman at Apple, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment outside of regular
business hours.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at   jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  