-- Securency Ex-CFO Gets Suspended Sentence in Bribery Probe
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-08-20T04:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/securency-ex-cfo-gets-suspended-sentence-in-bribery-probe-1-.html
The former chief financial officer
of Securency International Pty, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s
half-owned venture supplying material for printing money, was
given a six-month suspended sentence in a bribery probe.  David Ellery, 56, pleaded guilty to one charge of false
accounting in the probe of former managers and employees at Note
Printing Australia Ltd. and Securency, who have been charged
with bribing officials in  Malaysia ,  Indonesia  and  Vietnam  to win
currency-printing contracts.  Supreme Court  of Victoria Justice  Elizabeth Hollingworth  in
her  written ruling  today noted that Ellery has cooperated with
police, supplied evidence to investigators and given a witness
statement.  “You will be an important prosecution witness in any
committal or trial in relation to the conspiracy charges,”
Hollingworth wrote. “An offer to give detailed oral evidence
against alleged offenders will generally attract a substantial
discount” in sentencing, she said.  Securency and Note Printing  Australia , which is fully owned
by the central bank, and seven people who worked at the
companies, were charged over payments allegedly made between
1999 and 2004. It’s the first time anyone’s been prosecuted
under anti-bribery laws enacted in Australia in 2000.  Directors Changed  Note Printing Australia is governed by a board of directors
appointed by the Reserve Bank. Securency’s board has three
directors appointed by the RBA. The central bank said in its
annual report last year that it had replaced its representatives
on the two companies’ boards after the bribery charges were
laid.  Note Printing and Securency each negotiated separate
agreements in 1999 and 2000 with a Malaysian man and, or, his
company, appointing them as their agent and agreeing to pay them
a commission for contracts the Australian companies obtained,
according to Hollingworth’s judgment.  Note Printing won a A$15.2 million ($15.9 million) contract
to supply  Bank Negara Malaysia  with 160 million 5 ringgit
($1.60) polymer notes in December 2003, according to
Hollingworth. In December 2005, the Malaysian bank ordered
another 100 million of 5 ringgit notes.  Securency paid the Malaysian agent A$79,502, without
seeking any supporting documentation for the payment, the judge
said.  “Your knowledge that what you were doing was dishonest at
the time is evidenced by the steps you subsequently took to try
and conceal what had actually happened,” Hollingworth said to
Ellery in the judgment.  In response to an inquiry from the assistant governor of
the Reserve Bank in June 2007, Ellery said no commissions were
paid to the Malaysian agent and Securency had reimbursed him for
“marketing expenses,” according to the judge.  Australia’s main stock market regulator said on March 12
that it won’t conduct a formal investigation of company
directors involved in the bribery probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  