-- Serb Support for European Union Membership Declines, Poll Shows
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-08-20T11:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/serb-support-for-european-union-membership-declines-poll-shows.html
Serbian support for membership of
the European Union fell below 50 percent for the third time in a
year amid concern about conditions attached to its entry.  Support declined to 49 percent from 51 percent in December,
according to a June 14-23 survey conducted by the Belgrade-based
EU Intergration Office. About 19 percent said they would refrain
from voting, up from 18 percent, and 8 percent said they were
undecided compared with 3 percent in the December survey, the
office said today in an e-mail. Opposition to EU entry dropped
to 25 percent from 28 percent.  The EU gave  Serbia  candidate status on March 1 with a date
for the start of entry talks dependant on progress in making
peace with  Kosovo , its former province that unilaterally
declared independence in 2008. Serbia and Kosovo have yet to
implement agreements on power supply, telecommunications and the
functioning of peacekeeping forces in Kosovo, including the
Serb-populated north.  Of 1,034 adult respondents, about 38 percent or three
percentage points more than six months ago, see the “policy of
constant conditioning and blackmail which the EU applies to our
country” as the main reason to slow Serbia’s accession to the
27-member bloc.  For about 19 percent of respondents support declined for EU
membership because of the “incapacity of domestic leadership”
to take the country into the bloc, up from 17.5 percent in
December. Sixty-one percent of respondents say Serbia needs to
work out its relations with Kosovo regardless of EU membership.  Corruption  Rooting out corruption tops the list of “reforms of the
greatest significance” as Serbia adjusts to EU standards for 41
percent of the surveyed, while 27 percent said it was the
overhaul of the judiciary system.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet, sworn in on July 27,
is Serbia’s fifth government since the 2000 ouster of  Slobodan
Milosevic  to declare EU accession as the top policy goal.
Serbia’s bid to join the EU follows that of former Yugoslavia
republics Slovenia, an EU member since 2004,  Croatia , which aims
to join the bloc in mid-2013 and Montenegro which began
accession talks on June 29.  For more than a third of respondents in the semi-annual
survey started in 2002, EU membership is seen as the “path” to
a better future for the young, greater employment opportunities
and free travel, while 22 percent see the EU as “just a dream
and utopian idea.”  Fourty-six percent view entry to the EU as beneficial to
Serbia, even with an increasing awareness that progress toward
accession may slow as  Europe  tries to resolve its debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  