-- Sergio Garcia Leads PGA Tour’s Rain-Delayed Wyndham Championship
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/sergio-garcia-leads-pga-tour-s-rain-delayed-wyndham-championship.html
Sergio Garcia ’s pursuit of his first
U.S. PGA Tour title in more than four years was pushed to an
extra day when rain washed out final-round play at golf’s
Wyndham Championship in Greensboro, North Carolina.  Garcia holds a one-shot lead over  Tim Clark ,  Jason Dufner 
and Bud Cauley in the final PGA Tour event before the start of
the FedEx Cup playoffs. Garcia was 1-under par through four
holes in yesterday’s final round before heavy rains halted play
at Sedgefield Country Club.  The tournament resumes today at 9 a.m. local time, the
tour’s first Monday finish since the 2011 Phoenix Open. There
are 38 players still on the course, with 15 within four shots of
Garcia, who is 15-under par overall and seeking his first
victory since the 2008 Players Championship.  “The weather is one thing we can’t control,” Garcia told
reporters when asked how the delay might affect players. “Just
kind of be patient and we’ll see.”  Chad Campbell,  Bill Haas , Jimmy Walker and Harris English
are 12-under par, while  Davis Love III  is among the eight
players tied at 11 under. Another six players are 10 under,
including defending champion Webb Simpson.  The delay will give some players less time to prepare for
the FedEx Cup playoffs, which start Aug. 23 with The Barclays
tournament at Bethpage State Park’s Black Course in Farmingdale,
New York. The  top 125 golfers  in the FedEx Cup point standings
qualify for the first playoff event.  The playoffs, which were formed in 2007, offer $35 million
in total bonus money to golfers based on their finish in the
season-long competition, including $10 million to the FedEx Cup
winner.  Tiger Woods  currently leads the standings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  