-- Sharp Shares Fall After Reports on Restructuring: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-08-20T03:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/sharp-shares-fall-after-reports-on-restructuring-tokyo-mover.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ,  Japan ’s biggest maker
of liquid-crystal displays, fell the most in five days in Tokyo
trading on reports the company may eliminate more jobs and seek
investments from companies other than Foxconn Technology Group.  The shares dropped as much as 4.9 percent to 175 yen and
changed hands at 177 yen as of the 11:30 a.m. trading break,
extending the loss this year to 74 percent. Sharp is the  worst 
performer in the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average this year.  The maker of Aquos TVs may cut 10,000 jobs, or about 20
percent of its workforce, the Mainichi newspaper reported Aug.
18 without citing anyone. That’s double the 5,000 job cuts
announced earlier this month by Sharp. The Osaka-based company
isn’t considering additional job cuts, Miyuki Nakayama, a
spokeswoman, said today.  Sharp is considering seeking investment from firms other
than  Foxconn (2354)  to raise 50 billion yen, Jiji Press reported Aug.
17, without saying where it obtained the information. Sharp may
ask a U.S. investment firm,  Kyocera Corp. (6971)  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  for
funds, the report said.  Sharp has offered to sell its TV plants in China and Mexico
to Foxconn, the Taiwanese company said Aug. 17. Foxconn, which
agreed in March to an equity alliance with Sharp, said earlier
this month it plans to renegotiate the price of its investment
from the 550-yen-a-share it agreed to in March. The shares have
plunged after Sharp widened its annual loss forecast.  “The stock may continue to attract sell orders without
updates on the March agreement,”  Nobuo Kurahashi , an analyst at
Mizuho Financial Group Inc., said from Tokyo. “There hasn’t
been any progress on the talks with the Taiwanese company about
the proposed investment. Investors are waiting to see the
investment to be carried out.”  Negotiations between the two companies are continuing,
Nakayama said.  “Sharp and Foxconn group are having various discussions,
including the stock price and business alliances,” she said.
“The discussions are held at various levels and we cannot
disclose details.”  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc., Sharp’s main lenders, will offer more than 60
billion yen in loans, Japanese public broadcaster NHK said Aug.
17. The two Japanese banks may add financial support to Sharp if
the electronics maker draws up a drastic reform plan, NHK said,
without citing anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  