-- Shell Swaps Australian Fields, Pays Chevron $450 Million
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-08-20T11:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/shell-swaps-australian-fields-pays-chevron-450-million-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest oil company, will swap fields with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and pay
$450 million to raise a stake in  Australia ’s Browse gas titles.  Shell will boost its holdings in the West Browse fields to
35 percent and East Browse to 25 percent, it said today in a
statement. Chevron will get Shell’s 33.3 percent in Clio and
Acme, expanding its resource base for the Wheatstone liquefied
natural gas project, the U.S. company said  separately .  “This is a good deal, not only because it aligns with
Shell’s strategy of bigger direct stakes in key gas resources,
but because it also helps to simplify the ownership of the
Browse gas fields,” said  Andy Brown , upstream international
director at Shell. “The Browse gas fields are a key LNG
development opportunity for Australia.”  Chevron and Shell are among companies investing about $180
billion in the development of seven LNG ventures in Australia to
meet growing demand for energy in Asia. The two companies are
investors in the  Browse  and  Wheatstone  LNG projects.  The exchange “fits strategically with our long-term plans
to grow our Wheatstone area resource base, and create expansion
opportunities for the Wheatstone project,” said George Kirkland, a vice chairman at Chevron. Shell, based in The Hague,
will exit the Clio-Acme titles in the  Carnarvon Basin  where
Chevron has made at least six natural-gas discoveries, according
to the  San Ramon , California-based company.  The West and East Browse titles cover the Torosa, Brecknock
and Calliance fields, which will supply to Browse LNG, Shell
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  