-- Shinhan Makes Most of Low Yields to Refinance Debt
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-08-20T06:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/shinhan-to-sell-1-2-trillion-won-bonds-this-year-as-yields-fall.html
Shinhan Financial Group Co. (055550) , South
Korea’s largest financial-services group by market value, plans
to sell about 1.2 trillion won ($1.1 billion) of bonds in total
this year as record-low yields reduce borrowing costs.  “We’ve been able to take advantage of favorable borrowing
conditions to refinance our maturing debt at lower yields,”
Chief Financial Officer Min Jung Kee said in an interview on
Aug. 17 in  Seoul . “We need to pre-emptively raise capital when
we can, as it’s not certain how long this low-rate environment
will last.”  Corporate borrowing costs in Korea plunged to the  lowest
level  on record on Aug. 3, after the central bank in July cut
 interest rates  to bolster  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy. Gross
domestic product grew at the slowest pace in almost three years
last quarter as  Europe ’s debt crisis weakened exports.  Refinancing debt at lower rates will help Shinhan make up
for a drop in loan profitability, Min said, forecasting that net
income for 2012 will meet market estimates of about 2.4 trillion
won to 2.6 trillion won.  Shinhan Financial has sold 830 billion won of bonds in the
local currency this year, including 200 billion won of five- and
seven-year notes offered today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It plans to issue a further 400 billion won of debt
this year, according to Min.  The projected 1.2 trillion won of bond sales would still be
the least since 2009 as Shinhan tries to reduce its debt.  ‘Ideal Level’  Shinhan has the equivalent of 7.7 trillion won of bonds
 outstanding , excluding debt issued by subsidiaries, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Min, 53, said the company will cut
the level to about 5.5 trillion won by gradually repaying debt
using cash generated from operations.  “That’s the ideal level of debt for us,” he said.  Deteriorating economic growth prospects have amplified
demand for safer assets in  South Korea . Three-year AA- rated
corporate yields, the benchmark according to the Korea Financial
Investment Association, have declined to the lowest since the
association began compiling the data in 1993.  Shinhan has 540 billion won of bonds maturing this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 820
billion won and 460 billion won in the equivalent periods of
2013 and 2014, the data show.  Shares of Seoul-based Shinhan have dropped more than 5
percent this year, compared with a 3.9 percent increase in the
57-stock  Korea Financial Industry Index. (KOSPFIN)  Shinhan gained 0.7
percent to close at 37,600 won today in Seoul.  More Conservative  The company will probably post net income of 2.65 trillion
won this year, according to the average of 32 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Shinhan posted record profit of 3.1
trillion won in 2011.  “Our initial target was higher, but we became more
conservative due to the domestic and global environment,” Min
said of the 2012 forecast. “We’ll focus more on risk management
rather than asset growth.”  Net income  fell 23 percent in the first half from a year
earlier to 1.46 trillion won as reserves for soured debt rose
and the lending margin narrowed, the company said July 31. The
drop was exacerbated by a 352.2 billion won gain from selling a
stake in Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. a year earlier.  The Bank of  Korea ’s quarter-point  rate cut  to 3 percent,
its first reduction in three years, has put pressure on loan
profitability that is already shrinking. Shinhan’s net interest
margin narrowed to 2.52 percent in the second quarter from 2.57
percent in the first quarter and 2.72 percent a year earlier.  “It’s hard to expect the net interest margin will expand
in the rest of the year given the current circumstances,” said
Min, who became CFO in April last year. “But we aim to protect
it at the first-half level of 2.5 percent due to funding costs
that are near a record low.”  The group will look for small takeovers in Southeast Asian
markets such as  Indonesia  as domestic growth weakens, Min said.
Shinhan won’t pursue large-scale acquisitions at home or abroad
for the time being, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  