-- Slim’s Telmex Rejected in Bid for Court Review of TV Permit
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-08-20T20:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/slim-s-telmex-rejected-in-bid-for-high-court-review-of-tv-permit.html
Telefonos de  Mexico  SAB, the land-
line phone unit of billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL) ,
was dealt a blow by the Supreme Court in its legal effort to win
a license to offer pay-TV service.  Mexico’s high court declined on Aug. 7 to review a suit by
Telmex, as the company is known, against Mexico’s communications
ministry, a court official who asked not to be named under the
agency’s policy said Aug. 17. A Telmex official declined to
comment.  The decision kicks the case back to a lower appeals court,
the Seventh Collegiate Court in Administrative Matters, Reforma
newspaper  reported . A separate appeals court had already ruled
against Telmex on July 5 in a similar case, a decision that made
the  Supreme Court  unlikely to take up the matter, Gerardo
Sanchez Henkel, the communications ministry’s legal director,
said in an interview last month.  Mexico’s communications ministry rejected a Telmex request
for a TV license in May 2011, citing deficiencies in the quality
of the company’s connections with rival networks. Telmex sued to
block that ruling, arguing that the ministry didn’t have the
authority to make that decision. That suit led to the case the
Supreme Court declined to hear.  Telmex, which has been seeking a TV license since 2006, is
welcome to reapply for a TV license, Sanchez Henkel said in
July. He didn’t respond to phone and e-mail messages Aug. 17.  Telmex, which is limited to phone and Internet service in
Mexico, makes up about 16 percent of sales for  America Movil .
The Latin American telecommunications carrier represents about
57 percent of the wealth of Slim, 72, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  America Movil slid 0.3 percent to 17.17 pesos at the close
in Mexico City. Telmex, which America Movil is in the process of
delisting, rose 0.4 percent to 10.05 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  