-- Smith Challenges South Africa to Keep No. 1 Test Cricket Ranking
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-21T01:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/south-africa-beats-england-to-become-top-ranked-test-team.html
Having usurped  England  as Test
cricket’s top-ranked team,  South Africa  must improve if it’s to
stay No. 1, captain  Graeme Smith  said.  South Africa completed a 2-0 series victory against England
yesterday, winning the final Test in  London  by 51 runs to
replace its opponent atop the  International Cricket Council ’s
 rankings . The Proteas last held the top spot in November 2009.  “We need to have a strong enough base so when the wind
blows we can handle ourselves,” Smith said at the post-match
presentation. “We need to increase the depth of our bowling. We
need to have players that can come in and perform at this level
so there’s a lot of things we need to be looking at.”  The 2-0 result is the  first time since 1960  that the
victory margin in a series between the teams has been greater
than one Test. South Africa won the opener by an innings and 12
runs before the second match finished in a draw after being
disrupted by rain. The South Africans held off a late victory
push by England at Lord’s yesterday.  Needing to win the match to extend its yearlong run at No.
1, England was bowled out for 294 chasing the victory target of
346. Wicket-keeper Matt Prior scored 73 to keep the contest
alive into the last session on the final day. Man of the match
Vernon Philander finished with 5-30 and seven wickets overall as
well as scoring 96 runs.  “South Africa were just a bit too good,” England captain
 Andrew Strauss  said in a news conference. “They outplayed us
over the course of the three Test matches. We’ve got to take
that on the chin, try to work out why that was the case and how
best to move forward.”  Australia Next  South Africa next plays a best-of-three contest against
third-ranked  Australia  beginning Nov. 9 in Brisbane. England is
scheduled to visit No. 5  India  for a four-Test series starting
Nov. 15.  “There’s lots of teams that are sitting at the top who are
outstanding teams,” said Smith. “We’ve got Australia next and
that’s going to be an awesome challenge for us.”  Strauss, who was playing in his 100th Test, didn’t say
whether he’d continue in the captaincy position that he took up
in 2008.  The buildup to the series finale was dominated by England’s
dropping of  Kevin Pietersen  after the South Africa-born batsman
sent  text messages  to opposition players that contained
derogatory comments about Strauss and also provided advice about
how to bowl against him, U.K. media reported.  “We’ll see how things go,” Strauss told reporters. “From
a physical point of view it was a tiring week, but that passes
pretty quickly. I’m keen to get away for a few days and have a
bit of a break.”  Lord’s Loss  South Africa won the final match after scoring 309 and 351.
England replied with 315 in its first innings and entered the
last day needing another 330 to win after losing opening batsmen
Strauss and Alastair Cook leg before wicket in the final session
on day four.  Although England’s batsmen played their shots to try and
chase down the target yesterday, Philander wrapped up the win by
having Prior caught by Smith and then combining with  Jacques Kallis  to remove  Steven Finn  with the next delivery.  It was South Africa’s second straight Test series victory
in England. The home team had been undefeated in Tests at Lord’s
since the 2005 Ashes series against Australia, and had gone to
No. 1 by sweeping India 4-0 at home a year ago.  Since then, Strauss’s team has lost six of 11 Tests and its
only series victory came against the West Indies at home.  “When you’re number one people try to gun you down and
we’ve come unstuck a few times,” Strauss said. “It’s obviously
going to be a shame to hand over that mace to South Africa, but
right at the moment they deserve to be No. 1.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 