-- Spain May Pay for Euro That Serves Others, Ruling PP’s Pons Says
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-08-20T08:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/spain-may-pay-for-euro-that-serves-others-ruling-pp-s-pons-says.html
Esteban Gonzalez Pons, the deputy
general secretary of  Spain ’s ruling  People’s Party , said Spain
and Italy may end up paying for the euro while others benefit
unless the  European Central Bank  brings down borrowing costs.  “We need the ECB to act like a central bank for the euro
so that the euro doesn’t create a division between its members,
with countries benefitting from the single currency and others
like us being damaged by it,” Pons said in an interview on Onda
Cero radio station today.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who returns to work
in Madrid today after his vacation, is waiting for the central
bank to set out the details of its plan to lower bond yields
before deciding whether to request aid. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the program would be in conjunction with Europe’s
rescue funds and will likely be conditional on further measures
to balance the budget.  Rajoy has already introduced more than 100 billion euros
($124 billion) of spending cuts and tax increases since
December, driving the Spanish economy into its second recession
in three years as unemployment rose to a record 25 percent in
the second quarter.  “Part of the crisis is our responsibility but we are also
paying for the single currency’s weakness,” Pons said.
“Because we are among the strongest remaining European
economies, Italy and ourselves are paying for the others.”  The Spanish government is cutting spending on health and
education and  Italy ’s bond yields have surged even as it heads
for a balance budget next year. By contrast, German exporters
are generating 100 billion euros a year in additional sales as
the debt crisis holds down the currency, making foreign sales
cheaper, according to Nathan Sheets, chief international
economist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  