-- Switzerland to Clarify ‘White-Money’ Strategy in Early 2013
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-08-20T19:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/switzerland-delays-white-money-strategy-until-start-of-2013.html
Switzerland won’t advance plans to
require foreign clients of Swiss banks to declare they are tax-
compliant until January as it reconciles two sets of legislative
proposals, the Federal Department of Finance said.  “The consultation proposal for a tax-compliant and
competitive financial center will be submitted along with a
draft consultation on combating  money laundering  to the Federal
Council in January 2013,” Daniel Saameli, a spokesman for the
Bern-based department, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Switzerland is developing a “white-money strategy” in
response to a crackdown on offshore financial centers by the
U.S. and European countries eager to recoup money from taxpayers
banking abroad. At the same time, talks with the U.S. to end a
tax-evasion probe haven’t concluded and  Germany ’s  Social
Democratic Party  is blocking an accord that would tax German
customers of Swiss banks while keeping their identities secret.  The Swiss government  said in February  it will propose
“concrete measures” by September covering the regularization
of past undeclared assets, the introduction of withholding taxes
and obligatory declarations for foreigners to show they are tax-
compliant in other countries.  Part of that process won’t take place before next year
while the government also looks at reforming secrecy rules to
facilitate cross-border exchange of information for
investigations on  money laundering  and terrorist-financing
investigations, according to Saameli. Sharing details including
bank account numbers and information on balances and
transactions with other jurisdictions is currently prohibited in
the Alpine country.  The two sets of proposals will be published together to
ensure consistency, Saameli said.  The government expects to issue a broader report on the
Swiss financial center that was originally intended for next
month by the end of October, Anne Cesard, a spokeswoman for
 Switzerland ’s State Secretariat for International Financial
Matters, said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  