-- Synthes Investor Suits Over J&J Takeover Dismissed
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-08-20T21:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/synthes-investor-suits-over-j-j-takeover-thrown-out-by-judge.html
Synthes Inc.  investors can’t proceed
with claims that they were shortchanged by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
$21.3 billion takeover of the medical-device maker, a judge
concluded.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine rejected
shareholder lawsuits claiming that Hansjoerg Wyss, Synthes’s
chairman and controlling shareholder, engineered the J&J
transaction to meet his retirement needs rather than to get the
highest price for the firm, a maker of devices used to treat
trauma victims.  The investor lawsuits don’t provide enough facts “to
suggest that Wyss forced a crisis sale of Synthes to J&J in
order to satisfy some urgent need for cash,” Strine said in an
Aug. 17 decision. “The plaintiffs’ argument that Wyss had
somehow become an impatient capitalist is therefore strikingly
devoid of pled facts to support it.”  Synthes  shareholders  are slated to receive about
55.65 Swiss francs ($57.21) and about 1.72 shares of J&J stock
for each share they own. The shares of  West Chester ,
Pennsylvania-based Synthes trade in  Switzerland , Wyss’s home
country.  J&J, the world’s  second-biggest  seller of health-care
products, said June 12 that it entered into accelerated buyback
agreements for about $12.9 billion in shares with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to help pay for the
acquisition.  ‘Smooth Integration’  “We are pleased with the court’s decision, and are moving
ahead with a smooth integration of Synthes to form the world
leader in orthopedics,”  Bill Price , a J&J spokesman, said today
in an e-mailed statement.
the acquisition, officials of the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based company said when the deal was announced in April 2011.  Synthes already has 50 percent of the market for screws,
plates, bone grafts and other products to treat skeletal
injuries, Navid Malik, an analyst now with Cenkos Securities Plc
in  London , told Bloomberg in a 2011 interview. U.S. antitrust
regulators cleared the deal this year.  Synthes also agreed in May 2011 to sell its Norian unit,
which pleaded guilty to felony and misdemeanor criminal charges
for conducting an unauthorized trial of its bone-mending cement
as part of its marketing efforts, to Kensey Nash Corp. for
$22 million. Kensey Nash, a maker of absorbable cardiac medical
devices, is a unit of Netherlands-based  Royal DSM NA. (DSM)   Guilty Pleas  Four Synthes executives pleaded guilty in connection with
the bone-cement marketing campaign and received sentences
ranging from five months to nine months in jail. Prosecutors
alleged the officials marketed the cement for spinal fractures
even after studies showed it caused blood clots.  Wyss, the founder of Synthes, sought to sell the company so
he could retire and become a philanthropist, investors including
a Massachusetts-based pension  fund  and another retirement fund
backed by the  Teamsters Union  contend in court papers.  Instead of taking higher offers from unidentified private-
equity firms, Wyss pushed the Synthes board to back J&J’s offer
so he could sell his shares and gain tax advantages,
shareholders argued in the Delaware case.  The other  board  members never required Wyss to step aside
during the sale negotiations despite his conflicting interests,
the shareholders alleged.  Synthes directors countered that they properly used their
business judgment to evaluate the different offers and that the
$21.3 billion deal provides a 26 percent premium to investors.  Properly Shopped  The board said in court filings that it properly shopped
the company around for the best price and that Wyss didn’t have
any improper interest in the sale.  In his 46-page ruling, Strine said Synthes executives
didn’t rush to take the first offer.  The facts of the case “indicate that it was a patient
process reasonably calculated to generate the highest value the
market would pay for Synthes,” the judge wrote.  “Contrary to Synthes rushing into the arms of any
particular buyer fast, Synthes took its time, gave bidders
access to non-public information, and the chance to consider the
risks of making a bid and to raise financing for a bid,” Strine
added.  Wyss also wasn’t required to structure the sale of Synthes
to provide minority investors the best possible deal at his own
expense, the judge noted.  Synthes’ founder was entitled “to oppose a deal that
required him to subsidize a better deal for the minority
stockholders by subjecting him to a different and worse form of
consideration,” Strine said. “To hold otherwise would turn on
its head the basic tenet that controllers have a right to vote
their shares in their own interest.”  The case is In re Synthes Inc. Shareholder Litigation v.
Wyss, CA6452, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  