-- U.K.’s $39 Billion Severn Tidal Power Seeks Sovereign Investors
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-08-20T15:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/u-k-s-39-billion-severn-tidal-power-seeks-sovereign-investors.html
The developers of a 25 billion-pound
($39 billion) plan to generate power from tides in the Severn
Estuary are seeking investment from sovereign wealth funds, two
years after the U.K. government rejected a previous proposal.  Hafren Power Ltd., based in  London , has attracted interest
from around the world to finance the installation of about 1,000
turbines in the waters at the mouth of Britain’s longest river,
Richard Bazley, a company director, said today by phone.  An earlier blueprint was axed in 2010 because of the cost
to the public finances. The government said in May last year
that the Severn was open for private tidal projects as Britain
chases a goal to get 15 percent of its energy from renewables by
2020. The latest proposal could supply about 5 percent of the
nation’s electricity.  “The funding will have a very international element,”
Bazley said. “It’s likely to be a group of sovereign funds and
very large funds. There’s a major stake available to a funder,”
of about 20 to 25 percent, he said.  Hafren’s plans involve installing 1,064 “low-head”
turbines each with a 9-meter (30 foot) diameter at the site
between Lavernock Point on the South  Wales  coast and Brean in
Somerset. The power station element of the project will cost
about 25 billion pounds. The facility would extend about 18
kilometers (11 miles) and generate electricity on both “ebb and
flood” tides as the sea rises and falls, which distinguishes it
from the initial plans and helps lessen the environmental
impact, according to Bazley.  Inter-Tidal Habitat  “They’re two-way -- it wasn’t two-way before -- which
means we mitigate the loss of inter-tidal habitat for the bird
population and the fish can get through more easily.”  The project would generate about 16.4 terrawatt-hours of
electricity a year, or the equivalent of three nuclear power
stations, Bazley said.  Hafren, formerly called Corlan Hafren Ltd., met with Prime
Minister  David Cameron  to discuss the plan July 30. The meeting,
confirmed in London today by Cameron’s spokesman Steve Field,
was “positive”, Bazley said.  “He obviously needs us to answer a number of questions but
I think he found our proposition interesting and we’re taking it
forward.” The company will meet with ministers including U.K.
Energy Secretary  Ed Davey , and other officials to discuss the
plan, which may require a so-called hybrid bill, a piece of
legislation, to get planning approval, he said.  The Severn runs 220 miles from central Wales to the sea
between Wales and southwest  England .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  