-- U.S. Brokerage Audits Riddled With Deficiencies, Watchdog Finds
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/u-s-brokerage-audits-riddled-with-deficiencies-watchdog-finds.html
U.S. accounting  watchdogs  said a
review of 10 brokerage auditors found they all performed
deficient work, and some failed to take required steps to help
ensure investors’ funds are safeguarded.  Reviews of 23 broker audits conducted by the firms found
most financial statements weren’t reviewed well enough to
justify signing off on them, the  Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board ’s said yesterday in a  report  on its interim
inspection program. The PCAOB didn’t name the auditors and
brokerages in the report and said they were all smaller firms.  “While the results of these initial inspections cannot be
generalized to all securities broker and dealer audits and
represent only a small portion of the inspections planned for
the interim program, the nature and extent of the findings are
of concern to the board,” James R. Doty, chairman of the
Washington-based industry-funded nonprofit, said in a statement.  The report came a week after New York-based WJB Capital
Group Inc. was expelled from the brokerage industry for
misstating financial records and nine months after the collapse
of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , which left customer funds
unaccounted for when it filed for bankruptcy.  The PCAOB, which is supervised by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, has followed Dodd-Frank Act mandates to
expand brokerage oversight after  Bernard Madoff  was found to
have used a tiny, storefront audit firm while running his
multibillion-dollar  Ponzi scheme .  Initial Picture  Last year, the audit watchdog established an interim
inspection program to provide an initial picture of auditing
among the 4,400 registered broker-dealers. The first public
report from the program revealed a host of violations.  In seven audits, inspectors found failures to test net-
capital standards prescribed to ensure brokers have sufficient
liquidity. In two instances, auditors didn’t verify that
“special reserve bank accounts” were properly designated to
ensure customer funds were separate from the brokerage’s. In two
cases, firms “failed to maintain independence” by auditing
statements they helped prepare.  “The failure rates here are mind-boggling,” said  Lynn Turner , former SEC chief accountant, who said the errors could
warrant enforcement actions. “This level of failure rate can
only lead market participants to conclude that you cannot rely
upon these audits. How after everything blows up on Madoff could
you have still screwed up so bad?”  Biggest Firms  Wall Street’s biggest firms, including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , are well above the range of
smaller brokerages examined in the first round of inspections.
Thirty firms with net capital above $1 billion hold almost 80
percent of the industry’s capital, said PCAOB member Jay Hanson.  The PCAOB looked at brokerages with net capital under SEC
rules ranging from $100,000 to $120 million as of the end of
2010 or June 2011, according to the report. The firms included
both those that hold customer funds and those that don’t.  WJB, expelled by the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority last week after shutting its brokerage in January, had
net capital in the range examined.  “The most concerning is this lack of independence,”  Mark Williams , a lecturer at  Boston University ’s School of
Management, said in an interview. “A big weakness that we
continue to see is that auditors come in and they trust, and
they really don’t focus on verify. That was one of the main
findings of the weakness of the whole broker-dealer system that
helped the financial crisis to be triggered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  