-- Most U.S. Stocks Fall as Europe Offsets Bank, Tech Rally
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-08-20T21:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/u-s-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-before-data.html
Most U.S. stocks fell, after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose to its highest level since
April, as investor concern about Europe’s debt crisis
overshadowed a rally in technology and financial companies.  Best Buy Co. lost 10 percent after saying its founder
declined an offer from the board to conduct due diligence and go
to shareholders with his buyout offer.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  jumped 2.6
percent to its highest price ever, pacing a technology rally.
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  added at least
1.1 percent as financial companies recovered from early losses.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  was almost unchanged at 1,418.13 at 4 p.m. in
 New York , within a point of a four-year high set in April. The
gauge fell 0.4 percent earlier as Germany’s Bundesbank stepped
up its criticism of the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying
program. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 3.56 points, or
less than 0.1 percent, to 13,271.64. Seven stocks fell for every
five declining on U.S. exchanges, with volume at 4.9 billion
shares, 23 percent below the three-month average.  “We’re at a pretty formidable technical resistance here,”
 Michael Strauss , who helps oversee about $26 billion of assets
as the chief investment strategist at Commonfund in Wilton,
Connecticut, said in a telephone interview. “The Bundesbank
does have a hard problem with this,” he said, referring to the
ECB’s bond-buying program. “Germany is being put in the
position as being the lender of last resort in Europe.”  The S&P 500 last week capped its longest stretch of weekly
gains since January 2011 as economic reports beat forecasts and
Germany backed the ECB’s bond-buying plan. Trading volume and
 volatility  have dropped this month as vacationing traders await
policy clues from the  Federal Reserve ’s summit at the end of the
month and an ECB meeting in September.  ‘Stability Risks’  Government bond purchases “entail significant stability
risks,” the Bundesbank said in its monthly report today. The
ECB’s governing council may decide at its next gathering to set
yield limits on each country’s debt, Spiegel magazine reported
yesterday, without saying where it got the information. The ECB
said the council has not discussed any plan to target the bond
yields and that “it is absolutely misleading to report on
decisions,” a bank spokesman said in an e-mailed statement.  Reports in the U.S. this week will show that combined
purchases of  new  and  existing houses  increased to a 4.89 million
annual rate in July from a 4.72 million pace in June, according
to the median forecasts in surveys of economists before releases
from the National Association of Realtors on Aug. 22 and the
Commerce Department the next day.  Bookings for long-lasting 
goods may have climbed the most this year, a release from the
Commerce Department will show Aug. 24, according to the median
estimate.  Jackson Hole  The Fed will on Aug. 22 release minutes from the Aug. 1
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee , when policy makers
declined to initiate a third round of monetary stimulus, a
policy known as quantitative easing. The  S&P 500  has rallied 11
percent since June 1 on speculation the central bank may signal
more easing at the Kansas City Fed’s annual conference on Aug.
30 to Sept. 1 in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  The 13 percent rally in the S&P 500 this year through Aug.
17 has lifted the gauge to its highest level ever compared with
strategists’ forecasts, a sign that the best may be over for
U.S. equities in 2012.  Shares have climbed 2.1 percent above the average
projection of 1,389 from 13 firms from Morgan Stanley to
JPMorgan tracked by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest premium on
record for this time of year, according to data going back to
1999. Estimates by strategists in August have come true for the
last three years, with the S&P 500 rising 11 percent on average
through December, the data show.  ‘Core Fundamentals’  “The core fundamentals are not really a reason to be long
stocks,” said Barry Knapp, the New York-based head of U.S.
equity strategy at Barclays Plc, in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Deirdre Bolton . “Core
fundamentals, earnings and revenue growth have deteriorated to a
great extent.”  Phone and consumer discretionary companies posted the
biggest declines out of 10 groups in the S&P 500, falling more
than 0.5 percent.  Best Buy erased 10 percent for the biggest decline in the
S&P 500 to $18.16. The retailer’s board proposed that founder
Richard Schulze, beginning in January, be allowed to take his
buyout offer to shareholders, should the board decide to reject
any definitive proposal to acquire shares. Schulze didn’t accept
the proposal, according to Best Buy.  Lowe’s Tumbles  Lowe’s Cos. tumbled 5.8 percent to $26.26. The second-
largest U.S. home-improvement retailer reported second-quarter
earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates as comparable-store
sales fell. Adjusted earnings per share were 65 cents. Analysts
had projected 70 cents. The retailer cut its full-year profit
forecast to $1.64 a share from a projection of $1.83 a share in
May.  Waste Management Inc. (WM)  decreased 3 percent to $34.60 after
Barron’s reported the trash handler may be poised to fall as
much as 15 percent because of operating performance. Garbage
volume has been little changed to down for years because of
conservation, recycling and slow industrial growth, Barron’s
said.  Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO)  slipped 1.2 percent to $2.42. The
for-profit college operator  forecast  revenue in the first
quarter will be no more than $405 million, missing the average
analyst estimate of $406.4 million.  Financial stocks rose 0.3 percent after dropping as much as
0.3 percent earlier. Bank of America, the second-largest  U.S.
bank  by assets, climbed 1.9 percent to $8.15. JPMorgan, the
biggest bank in the nation by assets, added 1.1 percent to
$37.37.  Apple Soars  Technology stocks increased 0.3 percent. Hewlett-Packard
Co. soared 2.9 percent to $20.09 for the biggest gain in the
Dow.  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, advanced 2.6
percent to $665.15. The company’s market value reached
$623.52 billion, higher than Microsoft Corp.’s record of $620.6
billion, according to  Howard Silverblatt , senior index analyst
at S&P, in a note today. The iPhone and iPad maker surpassed
$600 billion in market value last week on speculation that
production has started on a smaller version of the iPad tablet
as well as a new television product.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the operator of the world’s largest social-
networking service, jumped 5 percent to $20.01 after falling
last week to a record low that was close to half the stock’s
initial public offering price of $38 in May.  Health-care stocks added 0.3 percent as a group.  Coventry
Health Care Inc. (CVH)  surged 20 percent to $42.04.  Aetna Inc. (AET) , a
health insurer, will pay $42.08 a share for the medical-care
provider in cash and stock, the companies said in a statement
today. Aetna’s shares climbed 5.6 percent to $40.18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  