-- U.S. Supports Circumcision Abroad, Should Do Same at Home
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-20T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/u-s-supports-circumcision-abroad-should-do-same-at-home.html
The U.S. government is justifiably
proud of its leadership abroad funding male circumcision as a
way to prevent HIV infections. The president’s AIDS relief
program  boasts  of having provided more than 1 million
circumcisions in 14 African countries.  The record of government support for male circumcision
within the U.S., however, is nothing to crow about. More and
more states (18 so far) are dropping Medicaid coverage for
routine infant male circumcision,  contributing  to a decline in
rates from 79 percent throughout the 1970s to 55 percent in
2010. This has occurred even as evidence of the  medical benefits 
of the procedure has stacked up.  The Medicaid cutbacks are driven by budget pressure, which
has also caused some private insurers to stop coverage. These
are penny-wise, pound-foolish decisions. In an  analysis
published  Monday, researchers at the  Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine  conclude that every infant circumcision that
is not performed results in $313 in extra health-care expenses
even after accounting for the procedure’s cost of about $291.  This is a conservative figure that does not include the
cost of procedures for the 10 percent to 15 percent of men who,
uncircumcised as babies, will require the surgery later in life,
at greater cost, for medical conditions such as phimosis, a
tightening of the foreskin that can close the opening of the
penis. The risks of complications are about seven times greater
for adult than infant circumcisions.  Male circumcision is an  ancient practice  that appeared
independently in a number of disparate cultures. Only in recent
decades have its medical benefits been known. It has been
established for years that circumcising baby boys reduces their
incidence of urinary tract infections when they are infants.
 Evidence  was strong that the practice protected against penile
cancer.  More recently, three randomized controlled  trials  in  Africa 
demonstrated that circumcision reduces a man’s chances of
becoming infected with HIV, herpes and human papillomavirus
(HPV), which causes penile cancer in men. In one study, female
partners of circumcised men had a lower risk of HPV, which
causes cervical cancer in women, and two other sexually
transmitted diseases.  Activists opposed to circumcision argue that it constitutes
mutilation. They had a point when the procedure served only
ritualistic purposes. The evidence is overwhelming now, however,
that the surgery has medical benefits, making it not so
different from removal of a worrisome mole.  Opponents also claim circumcision reduces sexual function
and satisfaction. Until the trials in Africa, in which mature
boys and men were circumcised, no one had tested that
proposition scientifically. In the  Kenyan trial , 64 percent of
the circumcised men reported their penis was “much more
sensitive” and 54 percent said they had a “much” easier time
achieving orgasm. In the  Ugandan trial , 57 percent of female
partners of circumcised men reported no change in sexual
satisfaction and 40 percent reported an improvement.  Of course, parents should not be coerced to circumcise
their sons, but the procedure should at least be covered by
insurance, including Medicaid, which pays for a third of
circumcisions done in U.S. hospitals. When a procedure isn’t
covered, a layperson will often assume there’s no medical
benefit and forgo it. Federal Medicaid regulations should be
amended to include infant circumcision among the services state
plans must cover.  Physicians should also encourage infant circumcision. The
 American Academy  of Pediatrics, which is reconsidering its
 position , could play a positive role. The group recommended
against circumcision in 1971 because of a lack of sufficient
evidence of benefit at the time. As that research began to
emerge, the group in 1999 adopted a position of neither support
nor discouragement, which it reaffirmed in 2005. Since then, the
data have clearly made the case for support. The academy needs
to update its stand accordingly.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why the  municipal-bond market 
is safe;  Margaret Carlson  on  “legitimate rape” and Paul Ryan ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on how the White House views  new warnings from
Israel ;  Peter Orszag  on the  false promise that competition  can
fix Medicare; William Pesek on  Asia ’s challenge in  limiting
smoking ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  partisan rancor ; William Silber on
 Paul Volcker’s early fight  against inflation.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 