-- UBS Starts Unit Providing Services for Quantitative Hedge Funds
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-20T12:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/ubs-starts-unit-providing-services-for-quantitative-hedge-funds.html
UBS AG (UBS)  is starting a unit aimed at
attracting clients among quantitative hedge funds, combining
services from its prime brokerage and direct-execution trading
businesses.  Scott Stickler in New York will be global head of the
operation, called UBS Quant HQ. Strategies across equities,
options and futures will be supported with fixed income and
foreign exchange to be added later, he said. The business
targets startups and established funds with long-short or hedged
strategies and those focused on arbitrage.  Investment firms formed as a result of regulations to curb
risk-taking within banks are looking for help with technology
consulting services, trading and financing, according to
Stickler, who was hired in July 2011. The unit began working
with more than a dozen hedge-fund clients in the second quarter
as it prepared for the Quant HQ introduction, he said.  “One of the trends we’re seeing is a number of startups,
folks coming out of big banks because of the Volcker rule and
starting their own  hedge funds ,” Stickler said in a phone
interview. “Clients are coming to us who wanted us to be in
this business and who want to be able to take advantage of our
global presence and our counterparty safety, stock-loan and
execution capabilities.”  The Volcker rule, part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory
overhaul, will limit the risks that deposit-taking banks can
accept. The rule, which hasn’t been finalized, aims to reduce
proprietary trading at banks.  Prime Brokerage  The UBS group will draw on the bank’s prime brokerage
services to help hedge funds raise capital from investors
looking specifically for quantitative strategies, Stickler said.
It will also help funds decide what types of technology
equipment, networking services and computer servers they may
need to support their strategies and process trades, he said.  Dave Mishoe will be regional head of Quant HQ for  Europe ,
the Middle East and  Africa  and Steve Hammerton will have that
role in the Asia-Pacific area. Both will report to Stickler.  Stickler was hired to build Zurich-based UBS’s business
with funds that analyze large amounts of data to make investment
decisions and engage in the “systematic implementation” or
electronic execution of those strategies, he said. Integrating
offerings in prime services and direct execution and adding
products to fill gaps at UBS will make it easier for funds to
get the services they seek from one unit, he said.  “This is a new client acquisition endeavor,” Stickler
said. “We’ve been seeing a migration of investor interest to
more liquid strategies and those that are more quantitative in
nature. That’s why we’re focused on this.”  Risk Management  UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, posted a 58 percent drop
in second-quarter profit in July, hurt by a loss at the
investment bank related to the initial public offering of
Facebook Inc.  The bank installed “strong risk-management systems and
procedures” for clients using the Quant HQ service, in part so
it can expand the business across asset classes and regions,
Stickler said. The systems will also help ensure clients are
hewing to their strategies in real time and enable UBS to give
quantitative funds more financing intraday, he said.  “Some funds may require more leverage intraday and more
systems to monitor that,” Stickler said. “We’re now able to
right-size leverage based on the strategy and the hedged nature
of the strategy.”  The initiative comes as global trading has declined across
asset classes following a slowdown of economic growth in the
U.S. and  China  and intensification of the  European debt crisis .  Trading Volume  Daily U.S. equity volume  averaged  6.63 billion shares this
year, 15 percent less than the average in 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Almost 4.3 billion contracts in U.S.
futures and options on securities traded in the first seven
months of this year, compared with 4.6 billion in the same
period in 2011,  data  from the Futures Industry Association show.
Non-U.S. futures and options volume declined 12 percent to 7.4
billion contracts in the first half of this year, the FIA said.  UBS is the eighth-biggest prime broker, according to a
ranking by client assets in Global Custodian magazine’s 2011
survey.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Credit
Suisse Group Inc. are the top three, it said.  The three largest prime brokers and Barclays Plc are among
the banks pursuing hedge funds and proprietary trading firms
engaged in quantitative and arbitrage strategies, said  Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of New York-based research firm
Tabb Group LLC. Regulatory developments such as the Volcker rule
and Basel III specifications on  capital requirements  are
boosting banks’ interest in fee-based services, he said.  New Entrants  “Regulatory changes are forcing the banks to shrink, so
with banks not wanting to take principal risk they’re leveraging
their infrastructure to try to support new entrants into the
market as well as hedge-fund spinoffs,” Tabb said by phone.
“That way they can continue to keep the flow, generate fee-
based income and reduce their proprietary trading risk.”  There were 9,700 hedge funds and funds-of-funds in the
second quarter, more than in any year except 2007 when the total
exceeded 10,000, according to data from Hedge Fund Research Inc.
The number of hedge funds rose to a record 7,768 in the second
quarter, the Chicago-based firm said in an Aug. 7 report.  Clients of the UBS group can choose among four tiers of
execution services, ranging from low latency to ultra-low
latency, Stickler said, referring to offerings that enable
customers to send orders to exchanges or other venues with
minimal delay. Risk filters and checks that became mandatory for
orders sent to markets last year take a maximum of 60
microseconds, or millionths of a second, he said. Clients’
orders can go through that process faster if speed is critical
to their strategies.  Technology Infrastructure  Building the technology infrastructure and systems needed
to implement trading strategies can be “prohibitively costly”
and too time-consuming for many funds, Anthony Dostellio,
managing partner at Objective Paradigm, a technology recruiting
firm in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  Most firms that don’t compete exclusively on speed are
likely to adopt a “blended environment,” where they build some
of the technology themselves and purchase the rest from vendors
and brokers, Dostellio said. Reliance on services from banks may
grow as existing firms expand into new regions or asset classes,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 