-- Mugabe Said to Delay Referendum as He Fears Losing Vote
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2012-08-23T08:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/mugabe-said-to-delay-referendum-as-he-fears-losing-vote.html
(Corrects spelling of analyst’s name in 13th paragraph in
story that was originally published on Aug. 21.)  Zimbabwean President  Robert Mugabe ’s
party wants to delay a referendum on a new constitution because
it fears it will lose the subsequent election, said a cabinet
minister and another member of the party’s top decision-making
body.  A faltering economy, a series of violent elections and
waning support from neighboring countries will probably result
in Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front
losing to the Movement for Democratic Change party of Prime
Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai , the two people said last week. They
both sit on Zanu-PF’s politburo and declined to be identified
because the party’s strategy hasn’t been made public.  Under the terms of a pact brokered in February 2009 by the
15-nation  Southern African Development Community , Mugabe, 88,
and Tsvangirai, 60, agreed to govern together following a
disputed election. The agreement stipulates that a referendum
must be held before a fresh election can take place. Zanu-PF has
repeatedly stalled negotiations on the new constitution that
were initially supposed to begin in July 2009 with the
plebiscite expected a few months later.  A draft constitution
has now been written by an inter-party group.  Delays to the referendum may hinder the economic recovery
of the country with companies hesitant to invest in mining the
world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome reserves without
knowing who will rule the country. Mugabe’s party, in power
since independence in 1980, has threatened to nationalize
foreign-owned assets and is pushing a law that requires
companies to sell 51 percent of their local assets to black
Zimbabweans.  Labor Migration  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ,  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  and
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  own platinum mines in the country
while  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  owns a diamond mine.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Old
Mutual Plc (OML)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  also operate there.  Zanu-PF will object to dual citizenship rights in the draft
of the constitution that would allow an estimated 2 million
people in Zimbabwe with ancestry from neighboring countries to
vote, as well as a clause that would allow as many as 3 million
Zimbabweans living outside the country to cast their ballots,
the two people said. The country has a population of about 12
million people.  People from Zambia and Malawi were encouraged to move to
Zimbabwe, then known as Southern Rhodesia, between 1953 and 1963
when the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland was established.
Southern Rhodesia was the industrial and agricultural hub of the
group while Nyasaland, now Malawi, and Northern Rhodesia, now
Zambia, were expected to provide labor.  Strong President  Zanu-PF will also oppose attempts to weaken the power of
the president in the constitution, to roll back the ownership
law and to alter a program that has seen almost all the land
owned by white commercial farmers seized and redistributed to
black subsistence farmers since 2000, the people said.  “We have been thorough, not delaying,”  Rugare Gumbo , a
spokesman for Zanu-PF, said by phone from Harare yesterday.
“We’ve taken the people’s wishes into account, ones that
weren’t included in the draft due to reasons we in Zanu-PF do
not understand.”  The party has rejected the dual citizenship clause proposed
in the draft as well as a plan to replace the attorney-general’s
office with a national prosecuting authority, Harare’s state-
controlled Herald newspaper reported, citing Gumbo.  ‘Done Deal’  “As far as we’re concerned, the constitution is a done
deal,” said  Tendai Biti , secretary-general of the MDC and the
country’s’ finance minister. “We spent three years negotiating
it with Zanu-PF and assumed, as anyone would, that their
negotiators had the authority to negotiate. We don’t see much
reason to accept further delays.”  Mugabe and Zanu-PF have lost support within Sadc with only
 Joseph Kabila , the leader of the  Democratic Republic  of Congo,
considered a strong ally, the people said. Kabila has little
influence in the group and Mugabe’s is now being pressured by
South Africa’s President  Jacob Zuma  as well as Botswana and
Tanzania while Angola and  Mozambique  are lending little support,
they said.  “Zuma is going to become more actively involved in in
resolving the dispute,” Simiso Velempini, southern Africa
analyst at London’s Control Risks, said in an interview. “It is
a delaying tactic. There is very little patience for the
situation to go on any longer.”  Zuma traveled to Zimbabwe last week before a Sadc heads-of-
state meeting in Mozambique.  Leaders within the country’s security forces, some senior
Zanu-PF politicians and their associates are also keen to delay
the election because of concern they may be prosecuted for human
rights abuses or on corruption charges, the two people said.  Corruption charges could be linked to taking advantage of
the difference between official and black market exchange rates
for the  Zimbabwe  Dollar before the currency was abolished in
2009, the ownership law and its implementation and the smuggling
of diamonds from the Marange field, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  