-- UN Monitors Exit Syria as Brahimi Describes Civil War
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 2012-08-20T11:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/un-monitors-exit-syria-as-brahimi-describes-civil-war.html
United Nations  monitors prepared to
leave  Syria  today after the failure of their four-month mission,
while the organization’s newly appointed envoy described the
country’s conflict as a civil war.  The 173-strong UN mission ended work yesterday and the last
military observer will depart by Aug. 24, Edmond Mulet,
assistant secretary general for peacekeeping operations, said
after the  Security Council  decided not to renew its mandate on
Aug. 16.  Lakhdar Brahimi, the former Algerian foreign minister
appointed to revive the UN’s peace effort, yesterday told the
France24 television news channel that he wanted to see whether
serious dialogue was feasible.  “A lot of people say we must avoid civil war in Syria -- I
think we are already there, we have been for quite some time
now,” he said. “What’s needed is to end the civil war, and
that won’t be easy.”  While the UN has agreed to keep a liaison office in Syria,
the departure of its military monitors marks the end of the
organization’s hopes that a cease-fire between the government of
Bashar al-Assad and its armed opponents might be close. More
than 23,000 people have died during the 17-month conflict,
including more than 16,000 civilians and 5,800 soldiers,
according to the opposition Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  ‘Open Conflict’  “Both sides have chosen the path of war, open conflict,
and the space for political dialogue and cessation of
hostilities, mediation, is very reduced,” the UN’s Mulet said.
“But that doesn’t mean we should not be engaged in that.”  A diplomatic impasse continues as the U.S. and its European
allies seek to force Assad to step down, while Russia and  China 
have vetoed UN resolutions designed to accelerate his departure.  Brahimi told the Associated Press yesterday that he doesn’t
have a plan to achieve consensus within the Security Council. He
formally takes over the role on Aug. 31 when  Kofi Annan ’s term
ends.  About 160 people were killed in Syria yesterday and
fighting in several towns and cities continued early today,
Mahmoud Merei, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights,
said by phone. Today’s clashes have left about 29 dead, mostly
in Daraa, Dubai-based Al Arabiya reported, citing the
Revolutionary Authority, an opposition group. Rebels are pushing
forward with attacks and control large areas of the country.  Syrian refugee numbers in  Turkey  have now reached about
70,000, Ershad Hurmuzlu, an adviser to President  Abdullah Gul 
told Arabiya television today. Last week, the UN estimated
Turkey was housing about 60,000 Syrians.  Assad was meanwhile shown on Syria state television
yesterday praying in a Damascus mosque to mark the Muslim Eid
al-Fitr holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  