-- Veterans Agency Overturns Decision on Navy SEAL Denied Contracts
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2012-08-20T18:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/veterans-agency-overturns-decision-on-navy-seal-denied-contracts.html
The Department of Veterans Affairs
has overturned its decision rejecting a retired Navy SEAL from a
contracting program designed to help veteran-owned businesses.  The agency told 23-year veteran Mark Lilly that  Syncon LLC ,
his Chesapeake, Virginia-based construction company, is now
allowed to compete for the contracts, according to a VA letter
sent to him today. Lilly, 47, was shot in  Afghanistan  and has a
Purple Heart,  Silver Star  and five Bronze Stars.  The VA has rejected the firm’s veteran-owned status three
times this year. In June, it questioned whether Lilly, who has a
Virginia contractor’s license, was in charge of the company’s
daily operations as required by the department’s rules.  The VA concluded in the letter that Lilly “has adequate
experience to manage and operate the business.” In its
decision, the agency took note of his general contractor’s
license and the updated resumes provided by Lilly and his non-
veteran minority partner.  Lilly said the lost certification has cost his company the
opportunity to bid on as much as $5 million in contracts. He
spent most of July in Yemen providing security and project
management services for an  oil company  to compensate for the
lost revenue, he said.  “I’m very happy that we were able to succeed and I can get
back to work here,” Lilly said in a phone interview.  Lawmakers’ Queries  The VA sent an official to visit Syncon offices on July 26,
six days after a Bloomberg News story on Lilly’s rejection. Two
congressional subcommittees held an Aug. 2 joint hearing on the
agency’s new verification system, which has drawn complaints
from veteran owners turned down during the same process.  The House Committee on Veterans Affairs, led by
Representative Jeff Miller, a Florida Republican, and Senator
 Jim Webb  and Senator Mark Warner, both Virginia Democrats, made
inquiries about Lilly’s case in July.  More than 4,000 companies, or almost two-thirds of all
those that have applied, have been rejected by the VA since the
agency stepped up efforts last year to prevent fraud, according
to March data from the VA. The department didn’t make more
recent data available.  A 2010 law requires the VA to do more to ensure veterans
are in control of a company. The stricter process followed
reports of fraud in the program, including cases where veterans
were “fronting,” or claiming to manage companies run by other
people.  Lilly has said his case shows that the crackdown is harming
legitimate businesses and may be hurting efforts to help
returning troops find work amid high unemployment. He said he
has experience in his field, including supervising some military
base construction overseas.  The VA has said it was concerned about who was running
Syncon in part because the retired SEAL’s minority partner, who
isn’t a veteran, has more construction experience than Lilly.  “I was blessed to meet up with people that could help
me,” he said. “I’m hoping the VA can move forward and do a
better job, a more thorough job, because there are a lot of
other vets out there who are going to need their help.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Kathleen Miller in
Washington at   Kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  