-- Viacom Overpaid Redstone, Shareholder Claims in Suit
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-08-20T20:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/viacom-overpaid-redstone-shareholder-claims-in-suit.html
Viacom Inc. (VIA) , owner of the MTV,
Comedy Central and Nickelodean cable channels, wrongly overpaid
Chairman  Sumner Redstone  and two top executives by more than
$36.6 million from 2008 to 2011, a shareholder claimed in a
lawsuit.  Robert Freedman alleged that Viacom’s board violated the
company’s 2007 executive-pay plan with payments to Redstone,
Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Dauman  and Chief Operating
Officer Thomas Dooley. Freedman asked a federal judge to force
the three executives and board members named in the suit to
repay the $36.6 million and to let Class B shareholders vote on
the 2007 pay plan.  “Accepting that excessive compensation constitutes
disloyalty, waste and is not the product of a valid exercise or
business judgment,” according to the complaint, filed Aug. 17
in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware . “Such conduct also
constitutes unjust enrichment.”  The $36.6 million represents the portion of the men’s pay
that Freedman claims violates the 2007 plan. The payments were
based on subjective factors barred under the plan and under the
U.S. tax code, according to the suit, filed by lawyers Brian E.
Farnan in Wilmington and Alexander Gershon in New York.  “The plaintiff’s complaint is filled with inaccuracies,
and completely fails to make a valid claim for a variety of
substantive and procedural reasons,” Viacom spokesman Jeremy Zweig said in a statement. “We are confident that Viacom’s
compensation practices are fully compliant with the law, and
consistent with our 2007 plan.”  Shareholders of  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the largest U.S.
shopping-mall owner, sued that company’s board of directors on
Aug. 8, accusing them of wrongly approving a pay package for
Chief Executive Officer  David Simon  without first holding a
shareholder vote. Simon was granted $120 million in special
stock awards as part of the pay package.  The case is Freedman v. Redstone, 12-cv-01052, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  