-- VirnetX Loss in Apple ITC Case Will Stand, Agency Says
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-08-20T23:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/virnetx-loss-in-apple-itc-case-will-stand-agency-says-2-.html
VirnetX Holding Co. (VHC)  lost a bid to
revive a patent-infringement case against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  at the U.S.
International Trade Commission, the agency said today. VirnetX
said it will file a new complaint against Apple.  The commission said it will let stand a trade judge’s
decision to terminate the case after he found that SAIC Inc. had
ownership rights and should have been a party to the case. “The
commission has terminated the investigation,” the agency said
in a  notice  posted on its website.  VirnetX  fell  as much as $3, or 12 percent, to $22.50 after
the close of trading in  New York . The company has said it’s
entitled to royalties from Apple and filed the complaint, which
posed the threat of a ban on imports of devices including the
iPhone, iPad and Mac computer. Apple’s devices are made in  Asia .
It didn’t specify when it would file the new complaint against
Apple at the agency.  “We believe in merits of our case against Apple,” Kendall Larsen, chief executive officer of Zephyr Cove, Nevada-based
VirnetX, said in a statement. “We will continue to defend
against any unauthorized use of our intellectual property by all
means available to us under the U.S. legal system, including in
the ITC.”  The patent, issued in November, is for a way of
establishing a secure link between two computers in a virtual
private network. VirnetX also has sued Cupertino, California-
based Apple in a federal court in  Texas , accusing it of
infringing related patents.  Ownership Question  VirnetX was formed by former workers of  SAIC, (SAI)  a McLean,
Virginia-based U.S. defense contractor. The federal judge in
Texas ruled in March that, under the terms of a 2005 agreement,
SAIC should be joined as a party in the case because it retained
an interest in the patents. VirnetX has said the technology
stemmed from work done for the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency.  VirnetX, which said it believed SAIC no longer had an
interest, refiled the Texas suit with SAIC as a party. It then
sought to amend the ITC case to add SAIC there as well. ITC
Judge  David Shaw  rejected that request, saying VirnetX was aware
of the ownership issue and didn’t follow the rules in how to
file a complaint. He then terminated the investigation.  VirnetX said it believed it was the sole owner of the
patent when it filed the complaint and that Shaw’s refusal to
let SAIC join the case was unfair.  Apple Arguments  Apple said that VirnetX has been told by multiple courts
that it needed to include SAIC as a party, including a case that
ended with a $200 million settlement with Microsoft Corp. in
2010.  VirnetX failed to submit documentation to support its claim
to sole ownership of the patent until after it received the
March decision from the Texas court, Apple said in a filing with
the agency.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, said the company
had no comment.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Devices with Secure
Communication Capabilities, 337-818, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  