-- Vivendi Names Promethean’s Charlier to Oversee Telecoms Units
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-08-20T17:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/vivendi-names-promethean-s-charlier-to-oversee-telecoms-units.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , Europe’s biggest media
and telecommunications company, named board member Jean-Yves Charlier to lead its telecommunications businesses as it
considers an overhaul of the company structure.  Charlier, 48, will take over the role in October and
participate in the strategic review of the business, the Paris-
based company said today in a statement. Charlier will step down
as a member of Vivendi’s supervisory board and from his position
as chief executive officer of  Promethean World Plc (PRW)  as sales at
the British maker of electronic equipment for classrooms slump.  Charlier will oversee all Vivendi’s telecommunications
assets, including domestic operator SFR and the Brazilian phone
carrier GVT. Vivendi hired Rothschild and Deutsche Bank AG to
study strategic options for GVT, two people familiar with the
matter said this month. Stephane Roussel, the current CEO of SFR
who will remain in his position, is set to set to start a cost-
cutting program to reduce expenses by as much as 800 million 
euros through 2013.  Vivendi is re-evaluating its businesses as Chairman Jean-
Rene Fourtou looks to overhaul the company’s structure and
restore investor confidence after the stock fell to a nine-year
low in April. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have
said that Vivendi’s debt rating may be cut unless it reduces
liabilities.  Fourtou has taken over overseeing strategy since Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy  was ousted in June. The
Vivendi chairman is interested in exploring a de-emphasis of the
group’s telecommunications businesses, which he believes require
too much investment to be successful and lack scale, people
familiar with the matter said in June.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s
 Michel Combes  had been due to take over as SFR chief before Levy
was ousted.  Charlier, who had been CEO of Promethean since 2007, is
quitting the British company after the stock declined as much as
60 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  