-- Haven Appetite Makes Busiest August for Company Bonds Since 2009
-- B y   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-08-20T11:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/vw-telenet-bond-sales-mean-august-poised-for-busiest-since-2009.html
Sales of European corporate bonds
headed for the best August in three years as borrowers from
carmaker  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  to junk-rated  Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) 
took advantage of investor appetite for haven securities.  With default rates remaining low despite the euro-zone
crisis, fund managers view many of the continent’s biggest
companies as relatively safe places to park their cash and more
lucrative than  government bonds  whose rates have fallen to  below
zero . Measures by the  European Central Bank  to ease the region’s
financial woes have also buoyed credit, sending borrowing costs
to the lowest in five months.  “It’s a good time to be an issuer because yields are so
low,” said Christopher Bullock, an analyst at Henderson Global
Investors Ltd. in  London , which oversees 18 billion euros ($22
billion) of fixed-income assets.  Companies have defied the usual summer slowdown to sell
1.47 billion euros of bonds in euros and pounds this month, an
82 percent increase from the same period a year ago, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance is on pace to surpass
the 1.57 billion euros in August 2010 with the market headed for
the busiest August since the record 4.6 billion euros in 2009.  Falling Costs  The extra yield investors demand to buy investment-grade
company bonds fell 38 basis points since June 1 to 140 basis
points more than benchmark German government debt, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporates, Non-Financial
index. The spread has narrowed 61 basis points this year. Credit
hastened its rally since Aug. 2, when ECB President  Mario Draghi 
signalled that the Frankfurt-based bank may buy sovereign debt.  Telenet, the cable operator controlled by  Liberty Global
Inc. (LBTYA) , raised 700 million euros last week from a two-part sale of
senior secured notes, the company’s first deal since June 2011,
Bloomberg data show. It issued bonds with a 6.25 percent coupon
due in 2022 and 6.75 percent securities maturing 2024.  Chief Financial Officer Renaat Berckmoes said Telenet
borrowed at less than 6.5 percent over the next 10 years aided
by strong demand for corporate debt on prospects of ECB
intervention to stop speculation against the euro.  “Spreads are very reasonable” and “long tenors are
available,” he said in an e-mail. “Markets are extremely strong
for corporate borrowing in anticipation of a more supportive
ECB,” he said.  Volkswagen Bonds  Volkswagen raised 900 million euros through sales of
floating-rate notes this month, as well as deals in other
currencies including 250 million pounds ($392 million) of fixed-
rate securities. Marco Dalan, a spokesman for the company in
Wolfsburg,  Germany , declined to comment.  Banks are also taking advantage of investor appetite for
their debt to raise money.  Sales of financial-company bonds enjoyed their busiest day
in more than a month on Aug. 16 as  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s
largest bank, sold 1 billion euros of 2.5 percent seven-year
notes and Svenska Handelsbanken AB raised 1 billion euros over
10 years.  Today, lenders including ING Groep NV are issuing covered
bonds, a type of secured note considered by investors to be
safer than traditional fundraisings.  The average spread of the 847 securities contained in Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Financial Corporate Index
declined 84 basis points since June 1 to 247, the narrowest gap
since Aug. 4, 2011. The index contains bonds sold by BNP Paribas
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   “Underlying bunds and Treasuries have been trading, until
the last few days, at very low yields,” said Michael Ridley, a
credit analyst at Mizuho International Plc in London. “So
funding costs for corporate bonds have been low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Tadeo in London at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  