-- Myanmar Economy May See Annual 8% Growth for a Decade, ADB Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-08-20T03:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/myanmar-economy-may-see-annual-8-growth-for-a-decade-adb-says.html
Myanmar’s economy may grow as much
as 8 percent a year over the next decade as inflation remains
low and the government increases trade ties with neighbors China
and  India , according to the  Asian Development Bank .  The near-term outlook for the economy, one-tenth the size
of neighboring  Thailand , is “relatively upbeat” because of
higher foreign investment and commodity sales, the ADB said in a
report today. Annual growth of 8 percent may triple per capita
gross domestic product to $3,000 by 2030, it said.  “Myanmar has rich natural resources, a plentiful youth
population and a strategic location in the region,” said Cyn-
Young Park, the ADB’s assistant chief economist, who co-wrote
the report. “All these will help Myanmar achieve very strong
and inclusive growth in a fairly short time.”  Myanmar President Thein Sein has taken steps to modernize
the economy and allow greater political freedoms since taking
power last year, prompting Western nations to ease sanctions and
attracting companies such as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Visa Inc. He is
seeking to create jobs before national elections in 2015.  The government should “urgently” develop the agricultural
sector, which employs almost two-thirds of Myanmar’s workforce,
Park said. About 20 percent of the country’s land area is used
to grow crops, and about a fifth of that is irrigated, according
to the ADB.  “The potential of exploiting its own agricultural
resources to improve productivity is enormous,” Park said.
“This is the low-hanging fruit for the country which can
benefit a large population in a very short time period.”  Growth Risks  Risks to Myanmar’s growth outlook include weak macro-
economic management, inadequate infrastructure and low tax
revenues. About a quarter of the population has access to
electricity and broadband Internet connections are sparse, the
report said.  While a law passed last month gives the  central bank  more
autonomy, policy makers will face challenges to keep the
currency stable and inflation under control as more money flows
into the country, the ADB said. Myanmar abandoned a fixed
 exchange rate  in April and is taking steps to loosen
restrictions on capital flows.  “Maintaining macro-stability is going to be the key at
least over the medium term for the country,” Park said. “The
central bank needs to be stronger and stay rather independent in
terms of monetary operations and fiscal management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  