-- Youku Investors Approve Acquisition of China Rival Tudou
-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-20T21:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/youku-investors-approve-acquisition-of-china-video-rival-tudou.html
Youku Inc. (YOKU) , China’s biggest online
video company, won approval from shareholders to acquire
competitor  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO) , a deal that will extend its lead
over websites run by  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)   Shareholders passed all resolutions at Youku’s shareholders
ballot related to the all-stock transaction with Tudou, Ryan
Cheung, corporate finance director at Youku, said at the meeting
in Hong Kong today. He declined to elaborate on the results.  The combination of China’s two biggest online video
companies will help reduce content licensing and network costs,
and generate savings of as much as $60 million annually, Youku
said in March. Tencent,  China’s biggest Internet company , and
local search-engine market leader Baidu are upgrading their
video sites to add users and boost advertising sales.  Shareholders at Tudou approved the combination with Youku
in a separate meeting today, Shanghai-based Tudou said in a
statement today.  Youku, based in Beijing, accounted for 20.9 percent of
 China ’s online video market by revenue in the first quarter,
compared with 11.5 percent for second-placed Tudou, according to
estimates by research company Analysys International. Baidu’s
iQiyi unit ranked fourth with 6.7 percent market share, more
than Tencent’s 4.7 percent, according to Analysys.  Youku’s American depositary receipts slid 2.4 percent to
$18.08 in New York trading. Tudou’s ADRs retreated 1.8 percent
to $28.76, giving the company a market capitalization of $1.01
billion.  “Market concern about Youku has shifted from whether the
deal would be completed to focusing on its market share after
the merger amid intense competition with various other online
video companies,” Echo He, a senior analyst at Maxim Group LLC
in New York said by phone.  Tudou’s investors will receive 1.595 Youku ADRs for each
Tudou ADR they own in the proposed transaction, the companies
said in March.  After the completion of the transaction, the combined
company will have more than 300 million weekly users, Dele Liu,
president of Youku, said on Aug. 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  