-- Zero Bund Yields No Deterrent to Euro Breakup Bets: Euro Credit
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-08-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/zero-bund-yields-no-deterrent-to-euro-breakup-bets-euro-credit.html
Investors are willing to own German
bunds at zero yields on speculation the currency boost from a
euro breakup would compensate for the sacrifice in returns.  “If you buy German assets denominated in euros today, you
could find yourself holding an asset in a superior currency in a
breakup scenario,” said Jamie Stuttard, who helps oversee $1.6
trillion as head of international bonds at Fidelity Management
and Research Co. in London. “There isn’t a lot of value in
German  government bonds  at these yield levels, and the single
best reason to own German assets is re-denomination risk.”  The yield on German notes maturing in 2014 dropped below
zero on June 1 and has been negative each day since July 6.
While European leaders said they are working on a plan to help
defuse the debt crisis, traders raised bets on euro
disintegration. The implied probability of a country leaving the
monetary union by the end of 2014 rose to 66 percent last week
from 64 percent a week ago, according to bets on Intrade.com.  “The currency trade is the main driver of low yields, not
only in Germany but also in  Switzerland ,  France ,  Austria , the
Netherlands and  Belgium ,” said  Michael Markovic , a senior
fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. The
debt problem of peripheral countries “is the strength of
Germany, Austria and France. Without this weakness, the stronger
countries would never pay such low yields.”  Belgium’s five-year borrowing cost of 1.31 percent is
within 20 basis points of the record low reached July 20.
Investors earn just 0.15 percent on French two-year notes and
0.5 percent on Dutch securities with similar maturities.  Breakup Premium  Yields for Austria, Belgium,  Finland , France, Germany and
the Netherlands have declined to records as investor demand for
their debt increases. The euro traded at $1.2324 yesterday, or
50 percent above its record low of 82.30 U.S. cents reached in
October 2000.  “There’s clearly an aspect of euro-breakup premiums being
built into core euro-zone bond prices,” said Mark Dowding, a
fixed-income portfolio manager at BlueBay Asset Management in
London, which oversees $41 billion in assets.  “Effectively you
can say that if one believes that the euro is going to cease to
exist, then the current low yields make sense.”  Yield Caps  Spanish and Italian bond yields have fallen from euro-era
highs in recent weeks on speculation the  European Central Bank 
will resume buying bonds to curb borrowing costs. JPMorgan Chase
& Co., the largest U.S. bank by assets, suggests investors
should bet on further declines in Spanish bond values as a
slumping economy hobbles the nation’s efforts to mend its
finances. Spanish 10-year yields are 6.30 percent, down from
7.75 percent on July 25. The yield on 10-year Italian securities
fell to 5.78 percent from a euro-era high of 7.48 percent
reached on Nov. 9.  The central bank will decide at a September meeting whether
to cap yields on euro sovereign debt by pledging unlimited bond
purchases, Germany’s Spiegel Magazine reported without saying
where it obtained the information. An ECB spokesman said
yesterday the central bank has not discussed any plan to target
bond yields.  “You could argue that a firewall is being put in place to
make it potentially easier to keep the euro area together in
case a member country such as  Greece  did leave,” said  John Stopford , head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management.
“We’re gradually moving toward an environment where there is
some support mechanism for the periphery, but that would
certainly be tested if a country left.”  Scaling Back  This scenario could lead to a scaled-down euro currency to
include Germany and possibly the so-called semi-core nations
such as France, the Netherlands, Austria and Belgium, which
investors perceive could appreciate in value if it traded
without the large debt burdens of other troubled economies that
currently make up the euro area.  Investors are paying more to protect against the cost of
sovereign default on some euro area bonds than they receive in
cash yields. For example, the cost of insuring against sovereign
default for five years for  Germany  is 55 basis points, compared
with a five-year cash yield of 43 basis points.  The cost of insuring against a sovereign default in France
is 128 basis points, versus a five-year bond yield of 96 basis
points. CDS premiums were also higher than the respective five-
year yields in Belgium and Austria.  “The currency trade is visible if you compare the cash
yields and CDS levels,” said Markovic at Credit Suisse. “You
pay more in CDS than the cash yield is returning.” Investors,
though, may abandon the currency appreciation trade once they
realize the true price that Germany would pay to cover the cost
of countries leaving the bloc, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in  London  at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net 
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  