-- Zuma Wins Backing for Probe Into Lonmin Mine Killings
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-08-20T12:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-20/zuma-wins-backing-for-probe-into-lonmin-mine-killings.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma ’s
decision to appoint a judicial panel to probe the deadliest mine
violence since the end of apartheid won backing from business
leaders, political parties and analysts.  Forty-four people died in the violence at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s
Marikana mining complex in the North West Province last week
after an illegal strike by 3,000 workers and clashes between
rival labor unions. Thirty-four of the fatalities occurred when
police opened fire on a group of protesters who refused to
disperse from a hilltop where they had been gathering.  “When a nation experiences a tragedy of this magnitude,
this is the type of response that is required from strong
political leadership, a response that is immediate, empowered
and transparent,” Neren Rau, chief executive officer of the
South African Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Zuma will announce the commission’s remit in the next few
days, the presidency said. The ruling  African National Congress 
and the opposition  Democratic Alliance  and Inkatha Freedom Party
all issued statements welcoming the probe.  The commission should investigate the events leading up to
the shootings, the conduct of Lonmin, the labor unions, the
police and the government, and whether the authorities took
reasonable action, said Pierre de Vos, a constitutional law
professor at the University of Cape Town.  Public Perception  The commission “should ideally be chaired by a retired
justice of the  Constitutional Court  or, if that is not possible,
by a retired judge of the  Supreme Court  of Appeal,” he said by
phone today. The commission head needs not only be impartial and
independent, but “also perceived by reasonable people to be
impartial and independent.”  Henk Botha, a public law professor at Stellenbosch
University near  Cape Town , said the commission should
investigate whether the police acted in self defense and why so
many people were killed.  “The commission should reflect on the police’s training
with regards to handling mass protest action,” he said by phone
today. “The commission should also determine whether this was a
once-off and unique incident.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  