-- Malaysia’s Najib Outlines New Affirmative Action Steps to Nation
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-09-14T05:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/malaysia-s-najib-outlines-new-affirmative-action-steps-to-nation.html
Malaysia  will set up a trust to
expand education, home ownership and other affirmative action
measures for ethnic Malays and indigenous people as part of the
state’s policies to further boost their share of the economic
pie, Prime Minister Najib Razak said.  “What we are doing is equitable and it does not take away
the rights of any other individual or their interests,” Najib
said today in a televised address. “The New Economic Policy for
bumiputeras has proven to reduce the gap among races, including
socio-economic development of bumiputeras, for four decades.”  Malaysia’s  Permodalan Nasional Berhad  will set up a 10
billion ringgit ($3 billion) unit trust to support skills
training, education and home ownership among Malays and
indigenous people, Najib said. It will additionally provide 700
million ringgit to support young Malay entrepreneurs, he said.  Government-linked companies will be urged to give more
contracts and concessions to ethnic Malays on a merit basis, the
prime minister said. The government will also identify state-owned companies that can be sold to Malays and indigenous
people, he said.  “We want to build a new community,” Najib said. “A
bumiputera entrepreneur who can compete and who is knowledgeable
in all skills.”  Najib, 60, was a teenager when riots erupted between Muslim
Malays and ethnic Chinese in  Kuala Lumpur  in 1969. His father
Abdul Razak Hussein became prime minister the following year and
responded with a program to reduce Chinese dominance in business
by giving preferential treatment to Malays and indigenous
people, collectively known as Bumiputeras.  New Economic Policy  The measures, crystalized under a New Economic Policy in
1971, have provided Bumiputeras with cheaper housing as well as
priority for university places, government contracts and shares
of publicly traded companies.  While this group makes up about 60 percent of Malaysia’s 29
million population, they held 23 percent of equity ownership
based on par value in 2011, Bernama reported Sept. 10, citing
Abdul Wahid Omar, a minister in the Prime Minister’s Department
responsible for overseeing Bumiputera policy. The government
wants to increase this to 30 percent by 2020 when the country
seeks to achieve developed nation status, he said.  Najib rolled back some preferences for Bumiputeras to
encourage investment after becoming prime minister in 2009,
including doing away with a requirement that foreign companies
investing in Malaysia and locally listed businesses set aside 30
percent of their equity for this group. He has also sought to
make assistance more merit-based and made periodic cash handouts
to the poor of all races.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  