-- Everton Beats Chelsea in Premier League; Arsenal, Man. Utd. Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-14T19:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/arsenal-beats-sunderland-in-premier-league-manchester-utd-wins.html
Everton defeated Chelsea 1-0 in
English soccer’s Premier League, as Arsenal and Manchester
United also won.  Steven Naismith’s goal gave Everton its first win of the
season.  Aaron Ramsey  scored twice as Arsenal won 3-1 at
Sunderland and Manchester United beat 10-man Crystal Palace 2-0
for new manager  David Moyes ’s first home victory.  Tottenham beat Norwich 2-0, Newcastle won 2-1 at Aston
Villa, West Brom got a late 1-1 draw at Fulham, Hull and Cardiff
drew 1-1 and the game between Stoke and Manchester City finished
0-0.  Naismith, celebrating his 27th birthday, scored in first-half stoppage time at Goodison Park to give new manager Roberto Martinez his first win after three straight draws to open the
season.  Jose Mourinho  suffered the first loss of his second
stint as Chelsea manager.  Everton scored just before halftime when Leon Osman sent a
cross from the right to the far post. Nikica Jelavic headed it
back toward the center where Naismith nodded the ball into the
net.  In Sunderland, Arsenal took the lead in the 11th minute
with the help of Mesut Ozil, who was making his debut following
his club-record 42.7 million-pound ($68 million) move from Real
Madrid this month. The German sent a through ball to Olivier
Giroud, who scored his fifth goal of the season.  Sunderland drew even three minutes into the second half on
Craig Gardner’s penalty kick before Ramsey put Arsenal back in
front in the 67th minute.  No Goal  Sunderland’s Jozy Altidore put the ball in the net three
minutes later, but it was disallowed because referee  Martin
Atkinson  had whistled a foul moments before. Ramsey then
clinched the victory with 14 minutes remaining.  Robin van Persie  and  Wayne Rooney  each scored as Manchester
United beat promoted Crystal Palace.  With former coach  Alex Ferguson  watching at Old Trafford in
Manchester, United took the lead just before halftime after
Ashley Young went down from a challenge by Kagisho Dikgacoi.
Referee Jon Moss awarded a penalty kick and showed Dikgacoi a
red card.  Van Persie  converted the penalty to end United’s first two-game goalless run since 2007. Rooney, who returned after missing
the last match with a gash in his head from a collision with
teammate Phil Jones during training, then clinched the victory
with a free kick in the 81st minute.  Gylfi Sigurdsson scored once in each half in Tottenham’s
home win over Norwich, while Hatem  Ben Arfa  scored one goal and
set up another from Yoan Gouffran as Newcastle won at Aston
Villa.  Gareth McAuley headed in a corner kick in injury time to
give West Brom the draw at Fulham, which got a first-half goal
from Steve Sidwell. Peter Whittingham’s goal gave Cardiff the
equalizer at Hull after the hosts had taken the lead from a
Curtis Davies strike. Stoke drew at home with Manchester City
for the fifth straight time in the league.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 