-- Bard Said to Settle Vaginal-Mesh Case Set for Trial
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-09-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/bard-said-to-settle-vaginal-mesh-case-set-for-trial.html
C.R. Bard Inc. agreed to settle a
woman’s claims that one of its vaginal-mesh implants caused
internal problems before a trial set for this month in  New
Jersey , two people familiar with the accord said.  Bard officials agreed to pay an undisclosed sum to resolve
Melanie Virgil’s claims that Bard’s Avaulta Plus insert caused
urinary problems, said the people, who asked not to be named
because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly about the
settlement. Virgil’s case had been set for a Sept. 23 trial in
state court in  Atlantic City , according to court dockets.  It’s the second vaginal-mesh case Bard settled since a
federal jury in Charleston, West Virginia, ordered the device
maker last month to pay $2 million to a woman who blamed the
company’s Avaulta devices for her injuries.  Bard, based in Murray Hill, New Jersey, faces more than
8,000 claims over the Avaulta line of inserts, which women
allege can cause organ damage and make sexual intercourse
painful when the devices erode.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Endo Health
Solutions Inc. (ENDP)  and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  face similar claims
that their implants, threaded in place through vaginal
incisions, shrink over time.  Scott Lowry, a Bard spokesman, didn’t immediately return
phone and e-mail messages yesterday seeking comment on the
settlement. Don Migliori, one of Virgil’s lawyers, declined to
comment yesterday on the settlement.  Cases Consolidated  Many of the implant cases against Bard and other
manufacturers have been consolidated before U.S. District Judge
Joseph Goodwin in Charleston for pretrial information exchanges.
Other cases have been filed in state courts in New Jersey,
 Missouri  and California.  Bard officials pulled the Avaulta implants off the market
last year after the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  ordered
all makers of the devices to study rates of organ damage,
infection and pain during sex linked to their products.  A  California  state court jury last year found Bard liable
for a woman’s injuries related to an Avaulta implant in the
first case to go trial in a U.S. court. Jurors said the company
should pay $5.5 million in damages. Bard is liable for only $3.6
million under that state’s law.  The West Virginia jury concluded Aug. 15 that Bard should
pay $250,000 in compensatory damages and $1.75 million in
punitive damages to Donna Cisson, a nurse from  Georgia  who had
an Avaulta Plus device implanted. Cisson said the mesh damaged
her organs and caused other ailments, in the first case to be
tried in federal court.  Virgil, a junior high school music teacher in  Colorado ,
sued Bard after her Avaulta Plus device began to erode,
according to court filings. The 56-year-old women said she
needed three surgeries to address urinary problems created by
the insert, according to the filings.  The case is Virgil v.  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR) , ATL-L6917-10,
Superior Court of New Jersey Law Division, Atlantic County
(Atlantic City). The Bard consolidated cases are In re C.R. Bard
Inc. Pelvic Repair System Products Liability Litigation, 10-md-02187, U.S. District Court, Southern District of West
Virginia (Charleston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  