-- Canada Dollar Rises as Fading of Syria Threat Boosts Risk Assets
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/canada-dollar-rises-as-fading-of-syria-threat-boosts-risk-assets.html
Canada ’s dollar touched a one-month
high on the way to its second straight weekly gain as stronger-than-forecast economic data helped the domestic outlook and
fading fears the U.S. will attack  Syria  boosted riskier assets.  The currency pared gains late in the week as focus shifted
to the  Federal Reserve ’s Sept. 17-18 meeting in which policy
makers will consider whether to trim a monetary-stimulus program
that may debase the greenback. A report showed Canadian building
permits in July rose to a record following last week’s  jobs  data
that tripled estimates. The  U.S. dollar  fell against most major
currencies as diplomatic efforts got underway to avoid U.S.
military action in Syria.  “As the tensions in Syria eased, we saw market strain
dissipate and the Canadian dollar basically move back to where
it was before the Syria situation became inflamed,” said  David Watt , chief economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc.
“As uncertainty dissipates, the risk-sensitive securities
improve, and I think that’s what happened with the Canadian
dollar.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.5 percent this week
in Toronto to C$1.0351 per U.S. dollar. It touched C$1.0306 per
U.S. dollar on Sept. 12, the highest point since Aug. 16. One
loonie buys 96.61 U.S. cents.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bond  was little
changed, with yields at 2.76. The 1.5 percent security maturing
in June 2023 cost C$89.35.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 2.1
percent to $108.21 per barrel and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks gained 2 percent.  Syria Turmoil  The U.S. dollar fell against all but the yen among its 16
most-traded peers this week as the country entered talks with
 Russia  on a plan for Syria to give up its chemical weapons
arsenal and avoid the possibility of a U.S. strike, which had
boosted the appeal of the greenback as a haven asset.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will decide to reduce
monthly purchases of Treasuries to $35 billion from $45 billion,
according to the median of 34 responses in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Policy makers will maintain mortgage-bond buying at
$40 billion, the survey shows.  “It certainly seems like markets in general are tied up in
knots right now over what the Federal Reserve is going to say
next week,” HSBC’s Watt said.  Loonie’s Wings  The loonie rose 1.3 percent last week as  employment
increased  by 59,200, versus a projected 20,000 rise in a
Bloomberg survey, while the jobless rate fell to 7.1 percent
from 7.2 percent.  The gains continued Sept. 9 after a report showed Canadian
 building permits  rose 20.7 percent to C$7.99 billion in July,
the highest on record.  The weekly advance was trimmed yesterday as the ratio of
Canadian  household debt  to disposable income rose to a record in
the second quarter on increased mortgage borrowing after policy
makers took steps to slow the housing market.  Credit-market debt such as mortgages rose to 163.4 percent
of disposable income, compared with a revised 162.1 percent in
the prior three-month period,  Statistics Canada  said yesterday
in Ottawa. Mortgage borrowing rose 1.7 percent to C$1.11
trillion ($1.08 trillion).  “You’ve seen Canada have a really great week overall
following last Friday’s jobs numbers,” said Brad Schruder, a
director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal, by phone from
Toronto. “And, frankly, while I don’t think the Canadian dollar
is falling right now, the wax is beginning to melt on the wings,
so to speak.”  Net Shorts  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain --  net shorts  -- was 30,942 on
Sept. 10, compared with net shorts of 34,639 a week earlier.
Traders have been betting on a decline since February.  The loonie has fallen 0.8 percent this year against nine
developed nations currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index, ahead only of only the currencies of
fellow commodities exporters  Norway ,  Australia  and  New Zealand .
The U.S. dollar advanced 3.9 percent and the pound added 4.8
percent to lead gainers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  