-- Clegg Attacks Cameron as He Defends Party Role in U.K. Coalition
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-09-14T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/clegg-attacks-cameron-as-he-defends-party-role-in-u-k-coalition.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg attacked his coalition partner, David Cameron, arguing
that the prime minister’s Conservative Party is too extreme to
be allowed to govern alone.  In an indication of how he intends to position his Liberal
Democrats in the runup to the 2015 election, Clegg told party
activists at their annual conference in Glasgow,  Scotland , this
evening that his intervention had stopped the Tories from
removing employment protections.  “The Conservatives have a bizarre idea that to create more
jobs you need to increase insecurity,” Clegg said. “They are
the party of fire at will. Without us, job security would have
been a thing of the past, with employers able to get rid of
staff on a whim.”  Support for the Liberal Democrats has collapsed since they
went into government with the Tories in 2010. Opinion polls show
only 10 percent of voters back the party. That’s less than half
what they got at the 2010 election and puts the Liberal
Democrats behind the anti-European Union, anti-immigration U.K.
Independence Party.  Clegg also confirmed that the government will introduce a
charge of 5 pence (8 U.S. cents) for plastic shopping bags
starting in 2015, in an effort to reduce waste and litter.  The Liberal Democrats have concluded from their own
internal polling that 75 percent of the electorate will not vote
for it and it is concentrating its message on the 25 percent who
have said they might, according to a party official who declined
to be identified.  Seats Warning  Matthew Oakeshott, a Liberal Democrat lawmaker in the House
of Lords, called on Sept. 12 for Clegg to step down. In an
interview in the House magazine, he said that unless there is a
change of leader, the Liberal Democrats could have just 20
lawmakers after 2015, down from 55 today.  That came less than a week after a former education
minister, Sarah Teather, said she was quitting as a Liberal
Democrat lawmaker because the coalition government’s policies on
welfare and immigration made her “catastrophically depressed.”  Teather announced she is quitting the House of Commons at
the next election because she no longer feels Clegg’s party
fights enough for social justice and a liberal immigration
policy. She said “something broke” inside her when her party
backed a cap on the amount of welfare a household can claim.  The party’s president, Tim Farron, echoed Clegg’s anti-Conservative line in a speech to the conference earlier today,
saying that “the Tories exist to promote the interests of the
richest inhabitants of the square mile of the City of  London .”  Clegg told activists they should be proud of the party’s
record in government and hold their course now that the  economy
is starting to improve .  “We can tell people how we took the right decisions in
government to make sure interest rates were kept down and to
protect people from the economic crises we have seen elsewhere
in Europe,” Clegg said. “This is a great party and in a short
space of time we have achieved great things.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Glasgow, Scotland, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Glasgow, Scotland, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  