-- Boston’s Jon Lester Holds Yankees to One Run in Eight Innings
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-15T04:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/lester-allows-one-run-in-eight-innings-as-red-sox-beat-yankees.html
Jon Lester  allowed one run on three
hits over eight innings to give the American League East-leading
Boston  Red Sox  a 5-1 victory over the New York Yankees in a
Major League Baseball game.  It was the second straight loss for the Yankees (79-70),
who are vying for one of the two wild-card playoff spots that go
to non-division-winning teams in each league. The Texas Rangers
(81-66) and Tampa Bay Rays (80-66) lead the wild-card standings,
with the Cleveland Indians (80-68), Yankees, Baltimore Orioles
(78-70) and Kansas City Royals (78-70) close behind.  Texas lost 1-0 to the Oakland Athletics; Tampa Bay beat the
Minnesota Twins 7-0; Baltimore fell 4-3 to the Toronto Blue
Jays; Cleveland defeated the Chicago White Sox 8-1; and the
Royals topped the Detroit Tigers 1-0.  Lester (14-8) held the Yankees to three hits and struck out
five. CC Sabathia (13-13) took the loss after allowing five runs
on nine hits while striking out five.  “I believe in myself, these guys believe in me and I knew
going through what I went through in the middle of the year it
was just a matter of time that things would take care of
themselves,” Lester told reporters.  Mike Napoli  scored on Will Middlebrooks’s ground-out in the
first inning.  David Ortiz  hit a run-scoring double and then
reached home on Jonny Gomes’ single in the third inning to give
Boston (91-59) a 3-0 lead at Fenway Park.  Curtis Granderson  scored on Robinson Cano’s single in the
fourth for the Yankees’ only run.  Shane Victorino  had a run-scoring single in the fourth
inning for the Red Sox, while Napoli added a run on Daniel Nava’s sacrifice in the fifth.  Soriano Scratched  Boston has won the first two games of this three-game
series after taking three-of-four from the Yankees last weekend.  Yankees outfielder  Alfonso Soriano  is day-to-day after
being scratched from today’s lineup with a sprained right thumb.
Soriano, who rejoined the Yankees on July 26 in a trade with the
Chicago Cubs, is batting .251 with 46 hits, 47 runs driven in
and 15 home runs in 46 games with New York.  “It was bothering him yesterday but they said it was OK,”
said Yankees manager  Joe Girardi . “Today it was worse. I’m not
sure why. It’s hard to figure out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  