-- Firm That Broke the Buck in 2008 Fails to Reach SEC Deal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-09-14T22:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/firm-that-broke-the-buck-in-2008-fails-to-reach-sec-deal.html
A tentative settlement between
Reserve Primary Fund, the $62.5 billion money-market fund that
“broke the buck” and failed in 2008 when its net asset value
fell below $1, and the  Securities and Exchange Commission  has
fallen apart, according to a lawyer for the firm.  John Dellaportas, a lawyer for Reserve’s founder and Chief
Executive Officer Bruce R. Bent and his son, President Bruce Bent II, told U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe in New York that
the SEC backed out of a proposed settlement last week.  “Much to our surprise, we were informed that, not only had
the commission rejected the proposed settlement agreement in
principle that had been negotiated between defendants and the
SEC staff, but it was also unwilling to settle with defendants
on any other terms,” Dellaportas said in the letter, dated
Sept. 5 and made public yesterday.  Reserve, which held $785 million in Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. debt, caused a run on money-market funds after its
net asset value fell below $1 a share on Sept. 16, 2008, the day
after Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in history. The
failure of Reserve, the first money fund in 14 years to “break
the buck,” contributed to the global financial crisis.  In a Sept. 5 letter to Gardephe that was also made public
yesterday, SEC lawyer Nancy Brown said, “We write to report
that we have been unable to reach a settlement with
defendants.”  Penalties, Disgorgement  In a letter to the judge today, Brown asked Gardephe to
rule on the SEC’s plan for penalties and disgorgement now that
negotiations have ended.  “Contrary to their contention that a settlement had been
considered and rejected by the commission, the parties’
negotiations never reached the point at which a proposal was
submitted to the commission for its consideration,” Brown wrote
in the letter.  Responding to the SEC’s letter, Dellaportas said in a court
filing today that SEC staff had told Reserve lawyers that they
had reached an agreement in principle.  “The SEC’s latest demands and ever-shifting positions
reinforce the need for a conference of all interested parties at
the court’s earliest availability,” Dellaportas said in the
letter to Gardephe.  SEC Lawsuit  The SEC sued the Bents and two of their companies in May
2009. The SEC accused the Bents of violating federal securities
laws by making misleading statements to investors and trustees
in the run-up to the collapse of the fund. A federal jury in
 Manhattan  last year cleared Bruce Bent and found Bruce Bent II
liable for negligence.  The failed settlement may threaten a separate $54.9 million
deal to settle shareholder litigation over Reserve’s failure.
That accord must be approved by Gardephe.  “The proposed settlement of the class action benefits
investors and we hope it will be approved by the court without
delay,” Richard Mahony, a spokesman for the Bents, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We were disappointed that
we were not able to resolve the remaining issues in that case.”  Florence Harmon, an SEC spokeswoman, said in an e-mail,
“We believe the SEC plan for distributing funds would put more
money in the pockets of investors, which is why we have asked
the court to decide how best to proceed.”  The SEC case is SEC v. Reserve Management Co., 09-cv-04346,
and the shareholder case is Reserve Primary Fund Securities &
Derivative Class Action Litigation, 08-cv-08060,  U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  