-- Ingrid Becomes Second Hurricane as Storms Threaten Mexico
-- B y   B r i a n   S u l l i v a n   a n d   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-09-15T21:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/ingrid-becomes-second-hurricane-as-storms-threaten-mexico-coasts.html
Hurricane Ingrid, bearing down on
eastern  Mexico  as Tropical Storm Manuel came ashore on the
country’s Pacific coast, will probably make landfall early
tomorrow, with both storms expected to bring life-threatening
floods.  The second hurricane of the Atlantic season is about 110
miles (177 kilometers) east-northeast of the Mexican city of
Tampico and is expected to dump as much as 15 inches (38
centimeters) of rain over a large part of eastern Mexico, the
U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami said in a  statement .
Ingrid has maximum sustained winds near 75 mph.  The storm is moving west-northwest at 6 miles per hour and
a hurricane warning is in effect for Cabo Rojo to La Pesca,
according to the statement. Slight strengthening is possible
before the center of Ingrid nears the coast tomorrow morning,
the hurricane center said.  “Hurricane conditions are expected in the  hurricane
warning  area early Monday, with tropical storm conditions
expected tonight,” the hurricane center said. “These rains are
likely to result in life-threatening flash floods and mud
slides.”  The Mexican government issued a hurricane warning for
Ingrid’s path yesterday, and the U.S. hurricane center said a
hurricane warning in effect from Zihantanejo to Manzanillo on
the Pacific coast was downgraded to a tropical storm warning as
Manuel made landfall near Manzanillo and began to weaken.  Mexico Evacuations  Mexico’s Reforma newspaper reported yesterday that 6,000
people had been evacuated in the state of Vera Cruz along the
 Gulf coast , while Universal newspaper said last night that 14
people had died during torrential rains caused by Manuel.  Tropical Storm Manuel was about 15 miles north of
Manzanillo, Mexico, with maximum sustained winds near 50 miles
per hour, and likely to also create life-threatening flash
floods with as much as 15 inches of rain expected over the
Mexican states of Guerrero and Michoacan, the hurricane center
said in its latest  advisory . Manuel was moving northwest at
about 9 mph, and was expected to continue for the next day or
so.  Ingrid yesterday was drifting west across the Bay of
Campeche where  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil
company known as Pemex, has its two largest  oil fields . They
produce about 1.25 million barrels a day.  Pemex suspended air and sea operations at its rigs in the
bay, according to a company statement yesterday. The oil ports
of Cayo Arcas, which processes about 68 percent of Mexico’s
crude exports, and Dos Bocas were closed, the country’s Merchant
Marine said today in its daily weather bulletin.  Slow Motion  The slow motion of the storm may allow it to strengthen
because it is over warm water, from which tropical systems can
draw power, Dan Kottlowski, a meteorologist with  AccuWeather
Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania , said yesterday.  Manuel  became the 13th storm of the Pacific season, which
began May 15. On its current track, Ingrid won’t be a threat to
U.S. production areas in the  Gulf of Mexico ,  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland ,
said yesterday.  The Gulf is home to about 5.6 percent of U.S. gas output,
23 percent of crude production and more than 45 percent of
petroleum refining capacity, Energy Department data show.  Rogers said clouds and rain from Ingrid may cross into
 Texas  next week, bringing cooler temperatures that will dull
electricity demand across the state.  ‘Mammoth Rainfall’  The main impact of the two storms will be “mammoth
rainfall amounts” across southern Mexico, said Michael Schlacter, founder of Weather 2000 Inc. in  New York .  “The worst thing for heavy rain are hills, mountains and
mud,” Schlacter said by telephone. “The consequences for
humanitarian purposes are just that more horrific.”  Schlacter said it’s possible heavy rain will fall across
southern Mexico for five days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Reierson at 
 areierson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  