-- Ingrid, Manuel to Cause Life-Threatening Floods in Mexico
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-09-14T18:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/ingrid-may-strengthen-into-hurricane-before-hitting-south-mexico.html
Tropical storms Ingrid and Manuel
will cause heavy rains and life-threatening floods in eastern
and southern  Mexico . Ingrid may become a hurricane later today.  “This will remain a significant hazard over the next
couple of days,” the  U.S. National Hurricane Center  in Miami
said in a statement. “The moist flow resulting from the
combination of Manuel and tropical storm Ingrid in the bay of
Campeche will produce torrential rains and life-threatening
flooding over eastern Mexico.”  The Mexican government issued a hurricane watch for
Ingrid’s path on the Gulf coast and the U.S. hurricane center
said it is expected to become a hurricane later today before
approaching the coast on Sept. 16.  Tropical Storm Manuel gained strength today in the Pacific.
The storm is creating “torrential rains” with as much as 15
inches (38 centimeters) expected over the Mexican states of
Oaxaca and Guerrero, the hurricane center said in its latest
 advisory . Ingrid may produce as much as 15 inches of rain over
eastern Mexico, with isolated areas in the mountains receiving
as much as 25 inches, the center said.  Ingrid, the ninth tropical storm of the Atlantic season
that runs from June 1 to Nov. 30, is currently drifting west
across the Bay of Campeche where Petroleos Mexicanos, Mexico’s
state-owned oil company known as Pemex, has its two largest oil
fields. They produce about 1.25 million barrels a day.  Pemex suspended air and sea operations at its rigs in the
bay, according to a company statement. The oil port of Dos Bocas
closed on Sept. 12 because of adverse weather conditions, while
the Cayo Arcas port, which processes about 68 percent of
Mexico’s crude exports, re-opened today, the country’s Merchant
Marine said in its daily weather bulletin.  Storm Positions  Ingrid  was 145 miles (233 kilometers) northeast of Veracruz
and moving north at 8 mph as of 10 a.m. Mexico City time today,
according to the center in Miami. Storm tracking aircraft found
Ingrid growing stronger, with maximum sustained winds of 70
miles per hour, up from 65 mph a few hours earlier. The storm
will begin drifting northward today and pick up speed moving
toward the northwest tomorrow, the center said.  The slow motion of the storm may allow it to strengthen
because it is over warm water, from which tropical systems can
draw power, said Dan Kottlowski, a meteorologist with
 AccuWeather Inc.  in State College,  Pennsylvania .  “This thing could ramp up to a very strong tropical storm
and it may become a Category 1 hurricane,” Kottlowski said.  Pacific Season  Manuel  became the 13th storm of the Pacific season, which
begins on May 15. It was about 125 miles south of Lazaro
Cardenas with top winds of 50 mph and is expected to gain
strength through the weekend. The storm was stationary and is
expected to turn northwestward today and approach the coast of
southwestern Mexico by early tomorrow. Manuel is expected to
make landfall tomorrow, the center said.  On the Atlantic coast, a hurricane watch is in effect from
La Pesca to north of Cabo Rojo and a tropical storm warning is
in place farther south to Coatzacoalcos, according to the
center.  A tropical storm warning remained in effect as Manuel
approached the Pacific coast, from Punta San Telmo to Acapulco.  On its current track, Ingrid won’t be a threat to U.S.
production areas in the Gulf of Mexico, said Matt Rogers,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  The Gulf is home to about 5.6 percent of U.S. gas output,
23 percent of crude production and more than 45 percent of
petroleum refining capacity, Energy Department data show.  Rogers said clouds and rain from Ingrid may cross into
 Texas  next week, bringing cooler temperatures that will dull
electricity demand across the state.  ‘Mammoth Rainfall’  The main impact of the two storms will be “mammoth
rainfall amounts” across southern Mexico, said Michael Schlacter, founder of Weather 2000 Inc. in New York.  “The worst thing for heavy rain are hills, mountains and
mud,” Schlacter said by telephone. “The consequences for
humanitarian purposes are just that more horrific.”  Schlacter said it’s possible heavy rain will fall across
southern Mexico for the next five days.  The hurricane center was also tracking Humberto, now a
post-tropical cyclone, which was about 980 miles northwest of
the Cape Verde Islands with maximum sustained winds of 40 mph.
It was heading west-northwest at 13 mph and isn’t a threat to
land.  Tropical Depression  Gabrielle  was absorbed by a cold front
today. Its remnants were bringing heavy rain to  Canada ’s
Atlantic coast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Reierson at 
 areierson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  