-- Jets’ Mark Sanchez Expected to Return After Rehab, Ryan Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-14T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/jets-mark-sanchez-expected-to-return-after-rehab-ryan-says.html
New York  Jets quarterback Mark Sanchez is expected to play during the National Football League
season after he finishes rehabilitation of a shoulder injury,
coach Rex Ryan said.  Sanchez, 26, the Jets’ starter for the past four seasons,
was injured in the team’s third preseason game Aug. 24 when Ryan
sent him onto the field with 11 minutes left in an overtime win
against the Giants. Sanchez was hit in the shoulder by the
Giants’ Marvin Austin.  “If we didn’t think it’d be realistic that Mark would get
on the field, than he would be put on injured reserve and that’s
not the case,” Ryan said yesterday during a news conference.
“He’s doing a great job in rehab and our doctors and our
trainers are pleased.”  Two days ago, Sanchez said he wanted to return to his
position this season. Rookie Geno Smith has started the first
two regular-season games for the Jets (1-1), and threw three
interceptions in a 13-10 loss to New England two days ago.  “I know he’s working his tail off to get back and I think
that’s where we’re at,” Ryan said. “So, I know he’s trying his
best to get back on the field.”  Sanchez, the Jets’ starter for the past four seasons after
being taken fifth overall in the 2009 draft, has a partially
torn labrum.  Sanchez, who is guaranteed $8.25 million this season, spent
the offseason competing with Smith for the starter’s job.
Sanchez was benched twice last season, when he committed an NFL-high 26 turnovers, including 18 interceptions. He has a league-high 52 turnovers the past two seasons after helping the Jets
reach the conference championship game his first two years.  In three preseason games, Sanchez completed 28 of 42 passes
for 266 yards, two touchdowns and two interceptions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  