-- Obama Sees Concrete Step to Removing Syrian Toxic Arms
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-09-14T16:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/obama-says-pact-is-concrete-step-to-end-syria-chemical-weapons.html
President  Barack Obama  said a
framework agreement between the U.S. and  Russia  represents a
“concrete step” toward eliminating  Syria ’s chemical arsenal.  “This framework provides the opportunity for the
elimination of Syrian chemical weapons in a transparent,
expeditious and verifiable manner, which could end the threat
these weapons pose not only to the Syrian people but to the
region and the world,” Obama said in a statement issued by the
White House.  The U.S. “remains prepared to act” if diplomacy fails,
Obama said in the statement. Under terms of the deal reached
today in Geneva, Syria must destroy its chemical weapons by
mid-2014, and the U.S. retains the right to use military force
to ensure compliance.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has a week to provide an
inventory of the chemical weapons he denied having a week ago,
and inspections must begin by mid-November.  United Nations Security Council approval would also be
needed to impose any sanctions.  “The international community expects the Assad regime to
live up to its public commitments,” Obama said.  The president, who put a pause on military action in favor
of diplomacy on Sept. 10, said the U.S. will work with Russia,
the U.K.,  France , the UN and others to ensure compliance by
Syria is verified.  Full Compliance  “There are consequences should the Assad regime not comply
with the framework agreed today,” the president said. “And, if
diplomacy fails, the  United States  remains prepared to act.”  In Geneva, U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  told a press
conference that “there can be no games, no room for avoidance
or anything less than full compliance by the Assad regime.”  The agreement came after three days of negotiations with
Kerry’s Russian counterpart,  Sergei Lavrov .  Obama had twice delayed possible U.S. military intervention
and still preserves that right, Kerry said.  A U.S. intelligence assessment said Assad regime’s used
sarin gas to kill more than 1,400 men, women, and children on
August 21.  “The use of chemical weapons anywhere in the world is an
affront to human dignity and a threat to the security of people
everywhere,” Obama said today. “We have a duty to preserve a
world free from the fear of chemical weapons for our children.”  Obama credited the threat of U.S. military force as leading
to a diplomatic breakthrough. He said he spoke to Kerry and
Samantha Power, the U.S. ambassador to the UN, to thank them for
their efforts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  