-- Syria Chemical Arms Deal May Let Obama Focus on Domestic Issues
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-09-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/syrian-diplomatic-deal-may-let-obama-focus-on-domestic-politics.html
The agreement between the U.S. and
Russia to eliminate  Syria ’s chemical weapons hands President
 Barack Obama  a diplomatic achievement without U.S. armed forces
firing a shot.  If the deal survives political and practical hurdles, it
could also wind down a drama that has put the Democratic
president and his threat to attack Syria at odds with most of
the U.S. public and many of his supporters.  After losing the first two weeks of September to the
crisis, the Obama administration may now be able to address
domestic priorities such as a budget agreement, raising the debt
ceiling, and nomination of a Federal Reserve chairman.  “The most important political effect of the agreement is
to knock the issue down a few pegs on the political agenda,”
said  John Pitney , a political science professor at  Claremont
McKenna College , in Claremont,  California .  Obama welcomed the deal as “an important, concrete step
toward the goal of moving Syria’s chemical weapons under
international control,” even as he said in a statement that the
U.S. “remains prepared to act” if diplomacy fails.  “The Syria problem appears to be off to the side now,”
said  Steve Elmendorf , a lobbyist and former Democratic
congressional aide with close ties to the administration.  Domestic Priorities  “Now they have the time” to nominate a Federal Reserve
Board chairman, a post for which former Obama National Economic
Council director  Lawrence Summers  and Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  are top candidates, Elmendorf said. “My guess is they’ll
do it pretty soon.”  Obama has scheduled a speech tomorrow at the White House to
mark the five-year anniversary of the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., which helped trigger the financial
crisis. He’ll also talk about economic gains since then,
according to a White House statement.  While critics will portray Obama’s maneuvering on Syria as
a series of vacillations, the public will see the outcome as a
victory, so long as the poison gas attacks there end, said
 Andrew Kohut , founding director of the Pew Research Center in
Washington.  “No more chemical attacks would equal achievement,” he
said. “And vice versa.”  “It’s the bottom line, not so much how you got there, for
typical voters,” said Kohut, who has been involved in polling
and public opinion research for more than 20 years.  ‘Strengthens’ Obama  The public is likely to give Obama credit simply because he
was able to avert, at least for the time being, U.S. military
involvement, he said.  “For now, the agreement strengthens Obama, with a public
opposed to force,” Kohut said.  Even with Syria’s cooperation, it will be difficult to
find, secure and destroy the country’s chemical weapons in the
middle of a civil war that’s killed more than 100,000 people in
the past 2 1/2 years.  The Pentagon issued a statement saying U.S. forces remain
poised to attack because “the credible threat of military force
has been key to driving diplomatic progress.”  “The problem remains to what degree will the Assad regime
carry it out and how will it be implemented,”  Andrew Tabler ,
senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy,
said in an e-mail. Fred Hof, who last year served as Obama’s
ambassador-at-large on the  Syria crisis , described President
Bashar al-Assad’s regime as “the essence of
untrustworthiness.”  Many in Washington also doubt Assad’s fractured opposition,
which includes backers of al-Qaeda.  Diplomatic Solution  “A diplomatic solution to eliminate his chemical weapons
capabilities is preferable to a military one, and is doubly
important because it would also remove the possibility of the
weapons falling into opposition hands if Assad loses power,”
Senator Angus King, a political independent from Maine, said in
a statement e-mailed to reporters.  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California
applauded Obama for “significant progress in our efforts to
prevent the use of weapons of mass destruction, a pillar of our
national security, through diplomatic efforts.”  Administration officials have stressed that the agreement,
and Russia’s active role, happened only because because of
Obama’s threat to use military force against Syria. They said
that, had Russian President  Vladimir Putin  wanted to the Assad
regime to give up its chemical weapons, the Russian leader could
have done so 6 months or a year ago.  Osama bin Laden  Yet the episode could damage public perceptions of Obama’s
handling of foreign affairs, said  David Gergen  a communications
adviser to four Republican and Democratic presidents, including
 Ronald Reagan  and  Bill Clinton .  The president’s most visible actions in foreign affairs so
far have been the winding down of unpopular wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan and the killing of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.  In contrast, Obama’s movement, from condemnation of the
Aug. 21 alleged poison gas attack to a surprise announcement
that he would seek congressional approval before a military
strike, and then his difficulty securing support among
lawmakers, provides fodder for critics of his leadership, Gergen
said.  “There’s a narrative out there in contrast to bin Laden,
which was stunningly well-handled, that this was amateurish,”
Gergen said. “That will continue to be a reference point in
conversations.”  U.S. Credibility Hurt  Gergen predicted “a lot of skepticism on the right, if not
downright hostility” because of Putin’s role in the agreement
and the perception it is a compromise with Syria’s Assad. Still,
he said, “it will be hard for some of the leaders on the
Republican side in Congress to be too harsh because they said,
‘good idea, pursue the agreement.’”  Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee, the top-ranking Republican
on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, expressed
reservations in a statement on the agreement, saying “the
administration’s handling of this crisis has hurt U.S.
credibility.”  “Absent the threat of force, it’s unclear to me how Syrian
compliance will be possible” Corker said, though he added “I
remain supportive of a strong diplomatic solution.”  Senators  John McCain  of Arizona and  Lindsey Graham  of South
Carolina, both Republicans who have sought more forceful U.S.
backing of Syrian rebels, predicted in a joint statement that
“our friends and enemies will take the same lessons from this
agreement -- they see it as an act of provocative weakness on
America’s part.”  The experience of fighting Obama’s request for an
authorization for the use of force may also embolden critics in
Obama’s own party to oppose him in future legislative battles,
Gergen said.  “The liberal left tasted what it is to take on the
president and succeed,” Gergen said. “We’re already seeing a
drumbeat against  Larry Summers  on the left. I imagine we’ll see
that on Keystone Pipeline, and we may see that on the budget.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  