-- U.S. Wins After New Zealand Avoids Capsizing in America’s Cup
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/u-s-wins-after-new-zealand-nearly-capsizes-in-america-s-cup.html
Defending champion Oracle Team USA
took the lead and won its second race yesterday when Emirates
Team  New Zealand  nearly capsized its catamaran in the 34th
America’s Cup competition.  The U.S. needs nine more wins to retain the trophy because
of a two-race penalty by the International Jury, while New
Zealand, the winner of six races, can take the title with three
more wins in the best-of-17 series. The second race yesterday
was postponed because of wind strength.  “We’re all good, disappointed to let the lead go,” said
New Zealand skipper Dean Barker. “They got nicely out of phase
and chipped away. We didn’t get the hydraulics and if the wing
doesn’t tack when the boat does, you’re in trouble. Fortunately
the boat came up and no collision with the other guys.”  New Zealand was leading after meeting the U.S. four times
on the upwind leg when the Kiwis put their 72-foot (22 meters)
catamaran on the edge of capsizing. Oracle Team USA took
advantage of the misstep and won by 52 seconds.  “It’s the first time upwind we felt really competitive,”
said Oracle tactician Tom Slingsby. “Our tacks were better, we
felt like we were sailing the shifts a bit better, and obviously
the speed was better. We made a couple changes to the boat
yesterday, and they seem to have been good steps. We’re really
encouraged.”  New Zealand was seven seconds ahead of the U.S. in the
second race when officials abandoned the competition as wind
strength exceeded the 22.6-knot (41.9 kph, 48.2 mph) limit.  Competition resumes today on  San Francisco Bay  with two 
races scheduled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  