-- Unions Denied Bid for Tax Break Under Obama Health Law
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2013-09-14T06:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-14/unions-denied-bid-for-tax-break-under-obama-health-law.html
The U.S. government has denied a
request from U.S. labor organizations to allow workers covered
by an employer-sponsored plan to claim a tax credit under
President  Barack Obama ’s signature health-care law.  The move marks a setback for the AFL-CIO, the nation’s
largest health federation, which earlier this week called for
classifying multiemployer health plans run by labor in a way
that would make members eligible for the tax break. The AFL-CIO,
a staunch political ally of the president, endorsed the
Affordable Care Act when it was enacted in 2010.  The administration’s move was described in a letter
yesterday from the Treasury Department to Senator Orrin Hatch of
 Utah , the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee. Hatch,
who released a copy of the letter, had sought information from
the agency on whether workers who get health insurance from an
employer would qualify for the break.  “An individual who is sponsored by an eligible employer-sponsored plan would not be eligible to receive a premium
credit,” according to the letter, signed by Alastair M.
Fitzpayne, assistant Treasury secretary for legislative affairs.
That conclusion applies to whether a worker is covered by “a
single-employer plan or a multiemployer plan.”  Labor unions were among the strongest proponents of the
health-care law when it was being debated by Congress, and the
Obama administration is trying to maintain their support as it
rolls out new insurance programs this fall.  AFL-CIO Resolution  Before the letter to Hatch was made public, Obama met
yesterday at the White House with union leaders including AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka. On Sept. 11, at the end of its
quadrennial convention in Los Angeles, Trumka’s group approved a
resolution urging changes to the health law  Besides its request on the premium tax credit, the AFL-CIO
expressed opposition to the law’s requirement that health plans,
including those of unions, pay a reinsurance fee of about $63
per member next year to the government. The resolution also
urged expanding health care under the law to more employers,
such as construction companies with five or more employees.  Republicans have vowed to block the union-backed changes,
making it unlikely they could get through Congress. Hatch
released the Treasury Department letter late yesterday jointly
with Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee.  “There has been far too much special treatment for
politically favored friends of Obamacare,” Hatch and Camp said
in a statement accompanying the letter. “But when it comes to
employers and taxpayers picking up the health care tab for labor
unions -- it appears that is a price that is simply too high.”  ‘Devastating Impact’  The AFL-CIO, a federation of 57 labor unions with 12
million members, supported the law when it was passed. This
week, two top Obama administration officials, White House senior
adviser Valerie Jarrett and Labor Secretary Thomas Perez, were
in Los Angeles to reassure union officials that the White House
was open to weighing changes.  As written, the health law “can have a devastating impact
on our ability to provide health insurance,” Terry O’Sullivan,
general president of the Laborer’s International Union of North
America, said at the AFL-CIO convention.  The 2010 law established public exchanges, through which
individuals can buy insurance, which are set to open Oct. 1.
Under the law, low- to moderate-income workers who buy insurance
through the exchanges would qualify for a tax credit. The
average subsidy per eligible enrollee buying insurance through
the exchanges is projected to be $5,300 in 2014, according to
the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.  Force Employees  Without the subsidies, some employers may stop offering
group plans that many union members are currently enrolled in,
according to Timothy Jost, a professor at  Washington  and Lee
University School of Law in Lexington,  Virginia . That will force
those employees into the exchanges, which may cost more than
their current health plans.  Republicans will use labor opposition to the law to
continue their attacks, Jost said. Unions, which represented
11.3 percent of workers in 2012, helped Obama’s campaign in 2008
and 2012 by getting Democratic voters out to the polls.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Shepard in Washington at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  