-- Barclays Says $470 Million FERC Penalty Won’t Stand in Court
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-12-15T15:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/barclays-says-470-million-ferc-penalty-won-t-stand-up-in-court.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  said the U.S. Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission’s record $470 million in proposed
penalties against the bank for alleged power-market manipulation
are unjustified and won’t withstand a court challenge.  In  filings  yesterday with the FERC, Barclays and four of
its former traders denied the commission’s charge that they
gamed electricity markets in the Western U.S. from late 2006 to
2008 and vowed to fight the allegations in federal court.  The FERC’s allegations are “based on an economically
irrational theory,” London-based Barclays said in its 40-page
filing. “The commission should terminate this proceeding
without any further action.”  When the FERC made the charges against Barclays on Oct. 31,
it called for $18 million in penalties on four of its former
traders. The bank’s challenge may test the commission’s
enforcement powers, which Congress enhanced in 2005 to prevent
the type of market manipulation that triggered blackouts in
 California  earlier in the decade.  The agency said one trader, Scott Connelly, led a
“manipulative scheme,” and proposed that he pay $15 million,
with an additional $1 million each for three colleagues.
Connelly’s lawyers disputed the commission’s actions in their
 filing  yesterday.  “This crippling penalty is multiples of Mr. Connelly’s net
worth, and it would simply be unjust to impose this penalty that
will essentially ruin him and his family for life financially,”
the lawyers said. “No federal judge would order such a
financial death sentence.”  Manipulating Markets  Barclays didn’t have the intent or the ability to
manipulate energy markets and its trading was legitimate,
lawyers for the bank said in yesterday’s filing.  The five-member commission should reject its enforcement
staff’s recommendations, “decline to assess any penalties and
terminate this matter without any further proceedings,”  Mark Lane , a Barclays spokesman, said in an e-mail. “If the FERC
proceeds, we intend to vigorously defend this matter in federal
court.”  Within the last two years, the agency has made public 13
probes of alleged violations, including investigations of
trading units at Barclays,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)   FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff has said the agency, which
has about 200 employees devoted to policing the markets, is in
“full enforcement mode.”  Mary O’Driscoll, a FERC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  “We do not comment on ongoing cases,” she said in an
e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  