-- Big East's Non-Football Schools Leaving for Basketball League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-15T20:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/big-east-s-non-football-schools-leaving-for-basketball-league.html
The seven  Big East Conference 
schools that don’t play top-level college football are leaving
the league to pursue a new basketball framework.  The presidents of DePaul, Georgetown, Marquette,
Providence, Seton Hall, St. John’s and Villanova universities
made the announcement today after a unanimous vote.  “Under the current context of conference realignment, we
believe pursuing a new basketball framework that builds on this
tradition of excellence and competition is the best way
forward,” the presidents said in a joint statement.  The conference, based in Providence, Rhode Island, was
founded in 1979 with a focus on basketball in major Northeast
and Mid-Atlantic cities. Six years later it sent three teams to
college basketball’s national semifinals: Georgetown, St. John’s
and eventual champion Villanova.  Now, all three of those schools are leaving, as
unprecedented media-rights deals for football move the spotlight
to the 50-yard line and away from the gym.  Boise State, Central Florida, Houston,  Memphis , San Diego
State and Southern Methodist are scheduled to join the Big East
for football in July 2013, Tulane and East Carolina in July 2014
and Navy in July 2015, which would create a 13-team league that
also includes  Connecticut , Cincinnati, South Florida and Temple.  “We have a strong conference with respected national
universities, and are working together to forge the future,”
Big East Commissioner Mike Aresco said in a statement. “We have
a variety of options, and are looking forward with great
partnership, collegiality and optimism.”  BCS Money  The Big East is an automatic qualifier for college
football’s lucrative Bowl Championship Series, but will lose
that status when the sport moves to a new playoff format in 2014
because defections from the league have weakened its power.
Louisville, Pittsburgh, Rutgers and Syracuse, all current Big
East members, have announced plans to move to other leagues.  That will leave the Big East, which has plans to add other
members, as a “group of five” smaller conferences that won’t
receive as much money from playoff payout as the Atlantic Coast,
Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-12 and Southeastern conferences, according
to ESPN. During the 12-year deal that begins in 2014 the five
power conferences will average almost $75 million more per year
than the “group of five” conferences -- the Big East, Mountain
West, Mid-American, Conference USA and Sun Belt -- ESPN said,
citing unnamed sources.  The Big East has won 32 national championships in six
sports and 137 individual national titles, according to the
conference’s website. In addition to Villanova, Georgetown,
Connecticut and Syracuse have all won the men’s basketball
national championship at least once.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  