-- China Machinery Said to Raise $500 Million in Hong Kong IPO
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2012-12-15T02:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/china-machinery-said-to-raise-500-million-in-hong-kong-ipo-1-.html
China Machinery Engineering Corp. ,
the state-owned contractor with projects in  Nigeria ,  Serbia  and
Ivory Coast, raised $500 million in an initial public offering
in Hong Kong, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Beijing-based unit of China National Machinery Industry
Corp. sold 718 million shares at HK$5.40 apiece, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. The shares were marketed at HK$4.10 to HK$5.40
apiece, according to a prospectus published Dec. 10.  The fundraising will push Hong Kong past Malaysia as  Asia ’s
third-largest destination for IPOs this year, after Japan and
China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies raised
$6.6 billion in the city before China Machinery’s sale, compared
with $6.8 billion in  Kuala Lumpur , the data show.  A Hong Kong-based external spokeswoman for China Machinery
declined to comment on the pricing.  China Machinery is expanding overseas as the country seeks
closer ties with developing nations and greater access to raw
materials abroad. The company offers engineering services and
sells equipment and machinery in more than 150 countries and
regions, primarily in Asia, Europe and  Africa , the  prospectus 
shows.  Relative Value  The offering price range values China Machinery at 5.2
times to 6.8 times estimated profit for next year, one of the
people said.  China Communications Construction Co. (1800) , the nation’s
second-biggest builder by market value, trades in Hong Kong at
about 7.6 times analysts’ estimates for 2013 earnings, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Machinery posted profit of 991 million  yuan  ($159
million) on sales of 10.4 billion yuan in the first six months
of this year, the prospectus shows. That compares with profit of
639 million yuan on sales of 9.8 billion yuan, in the year
earlier period.  The company plans to start trading in Hong Kong on Dec. 21,
according to the prospectus. ABCI Securities Co., BOC
International Holdings Ltd., CIMB Securities Ltd. and ICBC
International Holdings Ltd. managed the share sale, the document
shows.  Five so-called cornerstone investors, including  People’s
Insurance Co. (Group) of China Ltd. , bought a combined $165
million of shares in the IPO, according to the prospectus.
Cornerstone buyers get guaranteed allocation in IPOs in return
for a pledge to hold the stock, typically for six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  