-- Clinton Suffers Concussion After Fainting, State Department Says
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-12-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/clinton-suffers-concussion-after-fainting-state-department-says.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , suffering from a stomach virus, sustained a concussion
after becoming dehydrated and fainting, a State Department aide
said in a statement yesterday.  Clinton is being monitored by her doctors, Phillipe Reines,
deputy assistant secretary of state, said in the statement. At
the recommendation of doctors, she will work from home this
week, Reines said.  Clinton won’t testify as scheduled at Dec. 20 hearings on
the Sept. 11 attack against the U.S. consulate in Benghazi,
 Libya , that killed four Americans, including the U.S.
ambassador, congressional aides said.  “Secretary Clinton’s team contacted Senator Kerry this
morning to inform them of the secretary’s concussion,” Jodi Seth, a spokeswoman for Senator  John Kerry , said in a statement.  Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat and chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, “insisted that given her
condition, she could not and should not appear on Thursday,”
Seth said.  William Burns  and Thomas Nides, deputy secretaries of
state, will appear in her place, Seth said yesterday.  The House Foreign Affairs Committee also said Burns and
Nides will testify instead of Clinton. Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, head of the House committee, said in a statement
that it is “unfortunate” that Clinton won’t be able to testify
this week.  The committee hearing on Benghazi “requires a public
appearance by the secretary of state herself,” the Florida
Republican said in the statement.  Hospital Treatment  Clinton became ill and canceled her plans to participate 
in a meeting of Syrian opposition groups in  Morocco , a State 
Department official said Dec. 10. She suffered the concussion
last week and was taken to a Washington-area hospital for 
treatment, according to a State Department official who asked
not to be identified discussing details of her illness.   ``We recommended that the secretary continue to rest and
avoid any strenuous activity, and strongly advised her to cancel
all work events for the coming week,'' Clinton's doctors, Lisa 
Bardack and Gigi El-Bayoumi, said in a statement issued by the
State Department. ``We will continue to monitor her progress as
she makes a full recovery.''  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  