-- Congo President Kabila Wants Stronger UN Force to Fight Rebels
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-12-15T12:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/congo-president-kabila-wants-stronger-un-force-to-fight-rebels.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
president,  Joseph Kabila , called for a stronger mandate for
United Nations peacekeepers to help combat a rebellion in the
east that has forced almost 1 million people from their homes.  Rebels from the M23 movement deserted Congo’s army in April
and held the border town of Goma for 11 days last month before
agreeing to negotiations with the government. UN soldiers faced
criticism for allowing the insurgents to enter the trading hub
after the national army retreated.  “The current crisis has proven, one more time, the limits
of the approach of its actions in our country to the deep
frustration of the government and the Congolese population,”
Kabila told a joint session of parliament today in Kinshasa, the
capital. “We have requested a reorganization of its mandate to
bring it in line with the reality on the ground.”  For more than a decade, armed groups have thrived in
eastern Congo, often supporting themselves by exploiting the
area’s natural resources, according to the country’s Mines
Ministry and the UN. The region is rich in tin ore, gold, and
coltan, an ore used in electronics. Companies including  Soco
International Plc (SIA)  and  Total SA (FP)  are exploring for oil in North
Kivu province, where the M23 rebels are based.  The UN is considering proposals to add troops and
strengthen its enforcement capability, mission head Roger Meece
said yesterday. There are about 19,000 uniformed peacekeeping
personnel in Congo, a country nearly the size of Western Europe.  External Aggression  M23 is trying “to create chaos and justify the
balkanization of our country,” Kabila said. “No suffering, no
privation, no adversity will stop our determination to defend
our territorial integrity.”  Kabila described the rebellion as an act of external
aggression by neighboring  Rwanda , citing his own intelligence
agencies and UN reports. Rwanda has denied backing the
insurgents.  Congo accuses Rwanda of looting its resources, while
Rwandan President  Paul Kagame  says poor governance by Congo’s
leaders has led to insecurity in the region. Anti-government
rebels from Rwanda have been based in eastern Congo since the
mid-1990s.  In 2009, a peace deal between Congo and Rwandan-backed
rebels improved relations between the countries. The M23 rebels
say they mutinied because the Congolese government failed to
implement the agreement.  Negotiations between the rebels and the government are
continuing in Kampala,  Uganda ’s capital, Kabila said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  