-- Ghana Ordered to Free Argentine Ship in Hedge Fund Dispute
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-12-16T01:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/court-orders-ghana-to-release-argentine-ship-in-naval-dispute.html
A United Nations court said  Ghana 
must release an Argentine naval ship seized in a dispute between
the Latin American nation and a hedge fund that says it’s owed
money over defaulted  government bonds .  The International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea ordered
the ARA Libertad freed after the African country detained it on
Oct. 2, citing a court order obtained by NML Capital Ltd., which
is run by billionaire hedge fund investor  Paul Singer ’s Elliott
Management Corp.  Argentina  and Ghana must bear their own costs
in the dispute, the Hamburg-based court said in a ruling today
on its website.  NML and other investors who didn’t participate in debt
swaps Argentina carried out after its 2001 default are seeking
to recover the full value of the Argentine securities. About 93
percent of the defaulted bonds were restructured in 2005 and
2010, giving creditors about 30 cents on the dollar. NML is
separately fighting in a U.S. court for repayment on the bonds.  The Latin American nation will “keep defending itself from
the financial pirates,” Argentina’s Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino said in comments posted after today’s decision on his
Twitter account.  Argentina’s President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has
vowed to never pay NML and other so-called holdouts that she
dubs “vulture funds,” while continuing to service its
restructured debt.  ‘Contractual Obligations’  It’s “completely inappropriate” for the International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea to have gotten involved in the
dispute over the defaulted bonds, NML said.  “Nothing changes the fact that Argentina has the capacity
to honor its contractual obligations, but refuses to do so,”
NML said in an e-mailed statement.  A U.S. appeals court delayed a ruling by Judge Thomas Griesa that had ordered Argentina to pay holdouts $1.3 billion
by Dec. 15. The court will hear oral arguments for the case on
Feb. 27, according to the Nov. 28 ruling.  Ghana’s Deputy Foreign Affairs Minister Chris Kpodo said
today that his nation will “carefully consider” the UN
tribunal’s ruling, according to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  