-- European Stocks Little Changed This Week; Peugeot Rallies
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-12-15T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/european-stocks-little-changed-this-week-peugeot-rallies.html
European stocks  were little changed
this past week, following three weeks of gains, as concern U.S.
lawmakers won’t agree on a budget before the holiday offset
optimism that the euro area will get a single banking regulator.  PSA Peugeot Citroen SA soared 16 percent, the biggest rally
on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  this past week, as the carmaker
said it will cut another 1,500 jobs. Alcatel Lucent SA jumped
6.4 percent after winning a financing deal. Deutsche Bank AG
declined 5.5 percent after  Germany ’s biggest lender said fourth-
quarter profit will fall short of analysts’ estimates.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.1 percent to
279.4 this past week. The equity benchmark has  rallied 19
percent  from this year’s low on June 4 as the  European Central
Bank  and the  Federal Reserve  introduced bond-buying programs.  “Investors have had a good year with good results and
don’t want to take on more risk until the end of the year,”
said Paulo Goncalves, financial assets manager at Banco Popular
Portugal SA in Lisbon. “The market is hitting very close to
resistance levels, so it’s now beginning to move sideways as we
reach the end of the year.”  European stocks will struggle to extend their rally this
year as the region’s benchmark measure trades close to a key
resistance level. The Stoxx 600 remains stuck near the 50
percent Fibonacci retracement level of the slump between July
2007 and March 2009 in the aftermath of the financial crisis.  Fiscal Cliff  In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  reduced his demand for
new  tax revenue  in the  federal budget  for 2013. Even so,
congressional Republicans failed to accept the proposed changes,
prompting concern that politicians will not reach agreement on
the new budget before the end of the year.  More than $600 billion of tax increases and spending
reductions will automatically come into force at the beginning
of next year if no budget is agreed. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said that monetary stimulus alone cannot offset
the effects of the so-called fiscal cliff.  European Union finance ministers agreed to put the ECB in
charge of all large euro-area lenders. About 200 banks will
qualify for oversight by the central bank rather than national
regulators, Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said.  In Europe, the finance ministers of the 17 nations using
the single currency approved a 49.1 billion-euro ($64.5 billion)
payment of aid to Greece after the country completed a buyback
of its own debt. In Germany, a survey of economic expectations
among investors and analysts rebounded this month. The ZEW
Center for European Economic Research’s index rose to 6.9 from
minus 15.7 in November, beating  economists’ estimates .  China’s Slowdown  China’s economy , the world’s second largest, may withstand
a slowdown in exports as a report showed the country’s
manufacturing industry may expand at a faster pace this month.
Factory output increased in November for the first time in 13
months, according to the release from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics.  Peugeot soared 16 percent as  Europe’s second-largest
carmaker  said it will cut an extra 1,500 jobs by 2014. The job
losses will come on top of the 8,000 redundancies that the
company announced in July. La Tribune, a French business
newspaper, reported that Algeria’s government may buy a stake in
Peugeot. It cited French envoy Jean-Pierre Raffarin.  A gauge of auto companies posted the biggest gain of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600 this week. Renault added 6.2
percent as it sold its remaining stake in Swedish truckmaker
Volvo AB for $1.92 billion. Daimler AG rose 4.8 percent after it
appointed Hubertus Troska to its management board to revive
sales growth in  China . A release said Mercedes-Benz 11-month car
sales climbed 5.1 percent.  Alcatel Rebounds  Alcatel-Lucent SA jumped 6.4 percent as it obtained 1.6
billion euros in credit facilities underwritten by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG. The deal gives the French
phone-equipment maker time to sell as much as 1.5 billion euros
of assets. The shares have still  dropped 24 percent  this year as
the company burns through cash.  Wacker Chemie AG, second-biggest maker of solar-grade
silicon, rallied 13 percent as China’s government allocated 13
billion  yuan  ($2.1 billion) in subsidies for solar projects.  Deutsche Bank AG declined 5.5 percent after saying that
increased restructuring costs will cause the lender to miss
profit forecasts this quarter. Police raided the lender’s
headquarters on Dec. 12 and arrested five suspects in a tax-
evasion probe. Co-Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen  said
the raids hindered the bank’s efforts to change its culture,
Handelsblatt reported, citing an interview.  Imagination Technologies Group Plc (IMG)  retreated 6.6 percent as
 RBC Capital Markets , Exane BNP Paribas and UBS AG all cut their
price targets on the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  