-- Goldman Sachs Handled Dragon Sale Well, Ex-Analyst Says
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/goldman-sachs-handled-dragon-sale-well-ex-analyst-says.html
A former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
analyst testified that his team did a great job in helping
Dragon Systems Inc. sell itself to a Belgian firm that dissolved
in an accounting scandal six months later.  Alexander Berzofsky, speaking in a videotaped deposition
played yesterday for jurors in federal court in  Boston , answered
questions from a lawyer for Dragon Systems’ former owners, who
are suing the bank over its advice on the deal.  “You’re saying Goldman did a great job for Dragon?” asked
Alan K. Cotler, the attorney for Jim and Janet Baker who founded
the speech recognition developer in their suburban Boston home
30 years ago.  “Yes,” Berzofsky replied.  “The fact that Jim and Janet Baker lost their life’s work
doesn’t affect your opinion that Goldman did a great job for
them, right?” Cotler asked.  “Correct,” said Berzofsky, who left Goldman Sachs in 2000
and is now a managing director at Warburg Pincus LLC, a private
equity firm.  Dragon’s founders claim that a four-man team of Goldman
Sachs bankers assigned to the transaction committed gross
negligence by failing to pursue questions about Lernout &
Hauspie Speech Products NV’s finances that should have led them
to avoid the $580 million all-stock deal.  They say they lost their company and access to the
technology they had spent their careers developing, including
Dragon NaturallySpeaking dictation software, when Lernout &
Hauspie filed for  bankruptcy protection  in November 2000. The
deal closed in June of that year.  Competent Advice  Goldman Sachs claims its team gave Dragon competent advice
and says it urged company management to press their accountants,
at Arthur Andersen LLP, to probe Lernout & Hauspie’s finances.  U.S. District Judge Patti Saris, who is presiding over the
case, said the trial, which began Dec. 10, may last until Jan.
25.  On Dec. 13, the jury heard testimony from Richard Wayner, a
senior member of the Goldman Sachs team on the Dragon deal.
Wayner said Goldman Sachs had unanswered questions about Lernout
& Hauspie’s suspicious surges in sales in  Asia  -- revenue that
turned out to be fictitious -- but never sought to stop Dragon
from selling.  ‘Satisfactory Answers’  Wayner said that after informing Dragon that Goldman Sachs
didn’t received satisfactory answers from Lernout & Hauspie, it
was “the client’s decision whether or not they want to do the
deal.”  Berzofsky, a 1996 Harvard graduate who was 25 at the time
of the Dragon sale, said due diligence was up to Dragon. His
team’s job was “shepherding” the deal, he said.  Attorneys for Dragon showed him Goldman Sachs marketing
materials touting the firm’s devotion to its clients and
commitment to excellence.  “Did it ever cross your mind that after Lernout & Hauspie
went bankrupt and was found out to be a fraud, did it ever cross
your mind that maybe you and your team did not meet that
principle of achieving excellence on behalf of Jim and Janet
Baker?” Cotler asked.  “It never crossed my mind,” Berzofsky replied.  During the deposition, Berzofsky lounged back in his chair,
ate snacks and repeatedly stroked the back of his head.  No Recall  He yawned when attorneys show him a document related to
Goldman Sachs’s decision to walk away from making any
investments of its own in Lernout & Hauspie in the late 1990s
and said he didn’t recall ever seeing the document.  Dragon paid Goldman Sachs $5 million for its work under an
agreement that would have paid the bankers only $150,000 per
quarter if the sale didn’t occur, according to testimony in the
case.  “What did you do for $5 million?” Cotler asked.  “We gave them advice on how to sell their company,”
Berzofsky replied.  The case is Baker v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 09-cv-10053, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  