-- IAG Signs Non-Binding Accord With Ryanair for Heathrow
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-12-15T15:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/iag-signs-non-binding-accord-with-ryanair-for-heathrow.html
International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG) , owner of British Airways, signed a non-binding
agreement to buy landing slots at London’s Heathrow airport from
 Ryanair Holdings Plc’s (RYA)  as part of the discount airline’s
takeover bid for  Aer Lingus (AERL)  Group Plc.  “We have signed a non-binding MOU with Ryanair, which is
subject to EC approval, as part of its review of Ryanair’s
proposed takeover of Aer Lingus, and IAG board approval,” IAG
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Ryanair proposed selling more than 85 percent of Aer
Lingus’s Heathrow slots and it has reached agreement with
British Airways, the Financial Times reported, citing three
people familiar with matter.  Ryanair offered new concessions to European Union antitrust
regulators reviewing its 694 million-euro ($914 million) bid for
Aer Lingus. The EU’s antitrust authority in Brussels extended
until Feb. 27 its deadline to rule on the deal, according to a
 filing . It didn’t give details of Ryanair’s proposals. The
carrier’s previous offer to allay possible antitrust concerns
failed to convince regulators, who didn’t send it to rival
airlines for their comments, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  Ryanair, which owns  29.8 percent  of Aer Lingus, in June
renewed its effort to buy the rest of the smaller competitor to
bolster its Irish operations. The EU blocked a previous takeover
attempt five years ago, saying it would create a monopoly for
Irish flights. The bid has also drawn opposition from Aer Lingus
management and Irish politicians.  A spokesman for Ryanair wasn’t immediately able to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  