-- ICBC Says Investment Arm Has No Plan to Join AIG Plane-Unit Deal
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-12-15T18:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/icbc-says-investment-arm-has-no-plan-to-join-aig-plane-unit-deal.html
An investment arm of ICBC
International Holdings Ltd. may not join the group of Chinese
investors set to buy a majority stake in  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) ’s International Lease Finance Corp. plane-leasing
business.  “ICBC, including its subsidiaries, doesn’t have a plan or
a consideration to acquire ILFC,”  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China (601398)  Ltd. press officer Wang Zhenning said by telephone
today.  A group including New China Trust Co., China Aviation
Industrial Fund, and P3 Investments Ltd. agreed to buy 80
percent of ILFC for $4.23 billion, according to a Dec. 10
statement from New York-based AIG. AIG said in the statement
that a unit of ICBC International Holdings, the investment
banking arm of the world’s biggest bank, and New China Life
Insurance Co. may also join once the deal is approved.  “The investor group is expected to be expanded to include
other investors,” according to an e-mailed statement from
Steven Lipin at Brunswick Group, who represents the group,
called Jumbo Acquisition Ltd. “Any new investors in Jumbo will
be named at that time.”  The e-mailed statement didn’t include ICBC or New China
Life. Lipin declined to comment on the exclusion of the
companies from the new statement, dated Dec. 14. Jon Diat, an
AIG spokesman, declined to comment on the investors buying ILFC.  The  South China Morning Post  previously reported that ICBC
and New China Life had no plan to join the ILFC deal. An attempt
to reach New China Life wasn’t successful.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net 
 CH <Equity> CN
AIG US <Equity> CN 