-- Titanium Metals Officials Settle Investors’ Buyout Suits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/titanium-metals-officials-settle-investors-buyout-suits-1-.html
Titanium Metals Corp. (TIE)  officials
agreed to settle investor claims that a $2.9 billion sale of the
company was arranged to avoid a review of controlling
shareholder Harold Simmons’ dealings with the maker of titanium
used in the aerospace industry, according to a court filing.  As part of the settlement, Titanium Metals’ executives
agreed to make more information about the buyout by  Precision
Castparts Corp. (PCP)  available to shareholders, according to the
filing in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington. Officials from
Titanium Metals and Precision Castparts are pushing to close the
deal by the end of the year.  Titanium Metals officials agreed to resolve the case to
“eliminate the burden, risk and expense of further
litigation,” lawyers for the company said in the Dec. 12 court
filing.  Under the buyout offer, stockholders of Dallas-based
Titanium Metals will get $16.50 a share, a 44 percent premium,
according to the company’s Nov. 9 statement. Entities controlled
by Simmons, a billionaire who lives in  Texas , have agreed to
sell their 45 percent stake in the company, officials of
 Portland , Oregon-based Precision Castparts said.  John St. Wrba, a Titanium Metals spokesman, and Dwight Weber, a Precision Castparts spokesman, didn’t immediately
return calls yesterday seeking comment on the case.  Derivative Claims  A Louisiana pension fund sued Simmons and other Titanium
Metals executives in Delaware last year accusing them of
engaging in a half-dozen self-dealing transactions, including
below-market-rate loans made by the company to firms controlled
by the Texas billionaire and cost-sharing arrangements.  Titanium Metals officials agreed to settle the fund’s
shareholder derivative claims against Simmons and the rest of
the company’s board by agreeing to toughen the company’s
oversight policies regarding so-called “related-party
transactions,” according to an October court filing.  The accord also called for a board review of some of
Simmons’ past dealings with the company. A final report of that
probe was supposed to be published in the company’s proxy
statement, according to the filing. Delaware Chancery Court
Judge Leo Strine will decide Jan. 9 whether to give final
approval to that settlement.  Lawyers for the Sunshine Wire pension fund, a Titanium
Metals shareholder, filed a separate suit Nov. 13 alleging
Simmons and other executives rushed to sell the company to avoid
the board review of their earlier dealings.  Tax Issues  The pension fund’s attorneys also alleged that Titanium
Metals officials failed to disclose that  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the
company’s financial adviser, analyzed “tax concerns raised by
Simmons and his affiliates and the implications of a potential
2013 increased capital gains tax,” according to an unsealed
Dec. 10 filing in the case. New York-based Morgan Stanley is the
second-ranked adviser of mergers this year.  Strine had been set to hear investors’ request for an
injunction to stop the buyout from being completed at a Dec. 19
hearing in Wilmington.  Under the terms of the settlement, Titanium Metals
officials are required to make a filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission noting that Morgan Stanley officials
“discussed the tax concern raised by Mr. Simmons and his
affiliates and the potential implications that the national
presidential election could have on the capital gains tax,”
according to a copy of the disclosure, which was attached to
court filings.  Political Moves  Simmons, 81, was unavailable for comment on the settlement
of the suit over the buyout. His Contran Corp. holding company
has stakes in other businesses that include  Keystone
Consolidated Industries Inc. (KYCN) , a maker of wire products, and
 Valhi Inc. (VHI) , which manufactures titanium goods.  The billionaire has long been active in Texas and national
politics. He gave $2.3 million to the Restore Our Future super-
PAC that backed Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  in
the 2012 presidential race. In 2004, he donated $4 million to
Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, a group that questioned
Democratic nominee Senator John Kerry’s Vietnam War service.  The case is Ira J. Gaines and Sunshine Wire & Cable Defined
Pension Benefit Plan Dates 1/192 v. Titanium Metals Corp., 8029,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The case that generated an
earlier settlement is Louisiana Municipal Police Retirement
System v. Harold Simmons, 7059, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  