-- JPMorgan Muni Bond Rigging Accord Wins Final U.S. Court Approval
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/jpmorgan-muni-bond-rigging-settlement-wins-final-approval-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  won a judge’s
final approval of a $44.6 million settlement of a class-action
lawsuit alleging that the bank rigged bids for municipal bonds.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in  New York  issued the
order yesterday. The judge had given preliminary approval to the
accord in June.  “The settlement was attained following an extensive
investigation of the facts,” Marrero wrote in his five-page
order. “It resulted from vigorous arm’s-length negotiations
which were undertaken in good faith by counsel with significant
experience litigating antitrust class actions.”  The case was filed by bond issuers alleging JPMorgan Chase
and other banks rigged bids and “restrained, suppressed or
eliminated” competition for municipal derivatives, according to
court papers.  The accord approved by Marrero yesterday involved only
JPMorgan Chase and its Bear Stearns unit. Other banks settled
previously.  In his June 4 preliminary-approval order, the judge had
certified a class of state, local and municipal government and
other entities that had purchased municipal derivatives through
negotiation, competitive bidding or auction, from the bank or
any alleged provider or broker co-defendant or co-conspirator
between January 1992 and August 2011.  Escrow Account  JPMorgan, which has already deposited $24 million into a
settlement escrow account, must now add $18.6 million more,
according to Marrero’s order. The bank’s agreement to settle
didn’t constitute an admission of wrongdoing that can be used in
any other civil or criminal proceeding, the judge said.  “Its the beginning of a series of other settlements that
we will be announcing over time,” in the municipal derivatives
litigation, plaintiffs’ lawyer Michael D. Hausfeld said in a
phone interview.  He called yesterday’s approved accord satisfactory in the
context of earlier settlements between the defendant banks and
states’ attorneys general. Hausfeld is the principal of the
Washington law firm Hausfeld LLP.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for the New York-based
bank, declined to comment on the court order.  The case is In Re Municipal Derivatives  Antitrust
Litigation , 08-cv-2516, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  