-- NHL Says It Sues Players Group to Declare Lockout Legal
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-12-15T05:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/nhl-says-it-sues-players-group-to-declare-lockout-legal.html
The National Hockey League is
seeking a federal court order declaring its lockout of players
is legal, the league said.  The league said in a statement yesterday on its website
that it also filed an unfair labor complaint with the National
Labor Relations Board.  The lawsuit was filed in response to news reports that
professional hockey players will be asked to vote to authorize
the National Hockey League Players’ Association’s executive
board to proceed to “disclaim interest” in continuing to
represent the players in collective bargaining, the league said
in the  statement . The filing couldn’t be confirmed in electronic
court records in federal court in New York.  The lockout now has caused the cancellation of 526 regular-
season games, or 43 percent of the schedule. In the 1994-95
season, an NHL lockout ended Jan. 11 and a 48-game schedule
began on Jan. 20. A lockout wiped out the 2004-05 season.  The two sides are arguing over how to split revenue among
other issues, including salary arbitration and the length of
unrestricted free agency. League revenue grew to $3.3 billion
last season, a 50 percent increase from $2.2 billion in 2003-04.  Under the previous agreement, players received 57 percent,
or $1.9 billion, of the sales. The remaining $1.4 billion, or 43
percent, was shared among the league’s 30 team owners. The
league offered a 50-50 split in its latest contract proposal.  NHL players have been locked out since Sept. 16, the day
after the old contract expired.  “Based on what we’ve learned so far, the NHL appears to be
arguing that players should be stopped from even considering
their right to decide whether or not to be represented by a
union,” Jonathan Weatherdon, a spokesman for the players
association, said in an e-mail. “We believe that their position
is completely without merit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  