-- Novartis Drug Wins U.S. Approval for Cushing’s Disease
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/novartis-drug-wins-u-s-approval-for-cushing-s-disease.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Signifor won U.S.
regulatory approval to treat the rare hormone condition known as
Cushing’s disease.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the drug for
patients who can’t be helped with surgery, the agency said
yesterday in a statement. The drug lowers excess levels of the
hormone cortisol caused by a tumor on the pituitary gland at the
base of the brain.  Cushing’s disease  leads to obesity, skin that
bruises easily, excess hair growth in women and decreased sexual
desire in men, according to the National Institutes of Health.  The disease falls under the umbrella Cushing’s syndrome,
which is caused by excess cortisol that can be stimulated by
corticosteroid medications for asthma and rheumatoid arthritis
and thyroid, pancreas and lung tumors. Most patients with the
condition treat it by surgery to remove the tumor.  “Although surgery tends to be first line therapy to treat
Cushing’s disease, Signifor is a new treatment option for
patients when surgery hasn’t worked or isn’t an option,” Mary Parks, director of the FDA’s division of metabolism and
endocrinology products, said in the statement.  Signifor, a twice-daily injection, lowered body weight,
 blood pressure  and cholesterol levels significantly in a study
funded by Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis. It also increased
blood sugar levels as soon as two weeks after treatment began.  Novartis will need to conduct three additional studies of
Signifor once it reaches the market, the agency said. One will
track management of high blood sugar, one will monitor long-term
use of the drug and the last will look for signs of risk
stemming from high blood sugar, liver damage or adrenal
insufficiency.  The FDA approved  Menlo Park , California-based  Corcept
Therapeutics Inc. (CORT) ’s Korlym, a once-daily pill for high blood-
sugar associated with Cushing’s syndrome, in February.  About 2 or 3 people for every 1 million will develop non-
medicine related Cushing’s each year in the U.S., according to
the  National Institutes of Health .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  