-- Monti Support Grows Before Italian Elections, Newspapers Say
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-12-15T13:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/monti-support-grows-before-italian-elections-newspapers-say.html
Support is growing for a coalition
of political parties to back Prime Minister  Mario Monti  in
Italian elections due in the coming months, even though he may
not run, according to the country’s newspapers.  “Our project is clear and goes beyond the personal choice
of Monti,”  Pier Ferdinando Casini , head of the Union of
Centrists party, told  Corriere della Sera  in an  interview . “We
are offering the Italians a program that has as a starting point
the work already carried out by his government.”  Monti has refused to say whether he will enter the race for
elections that will probably be held in February, even after
European Union leaders, including Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , praised
his stewardship of a 13-month-old technocratic government. Monti
has decided to run, newspaper Il Fatto Quotidiano reported
today, without citing anyone.  Casini is due to hold a convention with Toward a Third
Republic, the new political movement founded by Ferrari SpA
Chairman Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, to form a coalition to try
to lure the premier into the race. That effort may also receive
backing from dissident members of Silvio Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party, also known as PDL, who are forming a new movement
with a pro-Monti slant.  “I think we need to build a federation of lists that work
together based on the success of Monti,”  Franco Frattini ,
Berlusconi’s former foreign minister, told newspaper la
Repubblica in an interview.  Resignation Offer  Frattini will join a meeting of the pro-Monti group of PDL
members tomorrow in  Rome .  The split within PDL came after Berlusconi withdrew his
support for the Monti government on Dec. 6 by calling on his
party to abstain on a key confidence vote in parliament. The
move prompted Monti to announce his intention to resign as soon
as the budget law is passed this week, marking the beginning of
election campaigning.  Berlusconi followed up by publicly blaming German-backed
austerity for  Italy ’s and Europe’s economic woes. Those comments
prompted criticism from European leaders, including Germany’s
Merkel, and calls for the PDL to be expelled from the European
 People’s Party , a grouping of conservative parties.  Frattini, who defied Berlusconi in that vote and cast his
ballot for Monti, is joining the new movement.  “On Sunday we want to demonstrate that a large majority of
the PDL recognizes our adhesion to the European People’s Party,
while only a minority think Italy’s problems derive from a
conspiracy in Berlin against us,” he told la Repubblica.  Berlusconi’s Challenge  Berlusconi, a three-time premier of Italy, offered on Dec.
12 to drop his bid to seek another term if Monti would enter the
race and lead a “coalition of moderates.” The initiative has
been rejected by the  Northern League , a traditional ally of PDL
who Berlusconi insists must be part of the coalition. The party
has has been one of Monti’s fiercest critics.  While some European leaders and much of Italy’s business
elite are openly supporting the idea of a Monti candidacy,
popular support for the parties linked to the premier is
limited. The Union of Centrists, Toward a Third Republic and
Freedom of Liberty for Italy have combined support of less than
10 percent, according to an ISPO Ricerche poll released on Dec.
12. PDL had backing of 16.3 percent, with the  Democratic Party  -
- a left-of-center pro-union bloc -- polling at more than 30
percent.  Still, Monti remains the most popular politician in Italy
with an approval rating of 50 percent, twice the level held by
Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani, the poll said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  