-- Orthofix Medicare Probe Settlement Wins U.S. Judge’s Approval
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/orthofix-medicare-probe-settlement-accepted-by-u-s-judge-1-.html
Orthofix International NV (OFIX)  won court
approval of a settlement of federal regulators’ claims that the
maker of bone-repair products defrauded Medicare through a
kickback scheme involving doctors, prosecutors said.  U.S. District Judge William G. Young in  Boston  yesterday
accepted an Orthofix unit’s offer to plead guilty to a felony
count of obstructing an audit and pay a $7.6 million criminal
fine a day after the judge refused to give final approval to the
deal, Christina DiIorio-Sterling, a spokeswoman for the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Boston, said in an e-mailed statement.  The judge, who originally said the plea deal improperly
restricted his sentencing powers, assented to the agreement
after Orthofix officials agreed to have a five-year probationary
term added to it, DiIorio-Sterling said.  As part of the agreement, Orthofix also will pay
$32.3 million plus interest to resolve civil claims first raised
in a whistle-blower’s lawsuit that the company defrauded the
federal Medicare program through payments to doctors who used
its bone-growth stimulators, DiIorio-Sterling said in the
statement.  Mark Quick, an Orthofix spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment yesterday on Young’s decision to
accept the agreement.  ‘Remain Confident’  “The company and the government stand behind their
agreements and continue to discuss a resolution of the matter
that will be acceptable to the court,” Robert Vaters,
Orthofix’s chief executive, said in a release yesterday before
Young approved the settlement. “We remain confident that this
matter will be resolved amicably and in a manner that is in the
best interests of our shareholders.”  Five Orthofix employees have pleaded guilty in connection
with the probe, the U.S.  Justice Department  said.  Thomas
Guerrieri , a company vice president, pleaded guilty to violating
the federal anti-kickback statute by setting up fake consulting
agreements for doctors who used the company’s products.  Orthofix, based in Curacao, in the  Netherlands Antilles ,
 said  in February that it had reserved $43 million to settle the
false-claims allegations.  The government joined a whistle-blower suit filed by
 Jeffrey Bierman , a Missouri businessman who learned about
alleged Medicare fraud by Orthofix.  Patient Co-Payments  He alleged that company officials improperly waived patient
co-payments, which wound up misstating the bone-stimulator’s
true cost and generating Medicare overpayments, prosecutors said
in June when they announced the accord with the company.  Bierman, owner of a company that provides billing services
to doctors and hospitals, sued under the federal  False Claims
Act , which lets whistle-blowers file cases on behalf of the
government and share in any recoveries. He is slated to receive
$9.2 million of the civil settlement in the Orthofix case,
according to the Justice Department.  The case is U.S. ex rel. Bierman v. Orthofix International
NV, 05-10557, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston
at  jmlawrence@mac.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  