-- Philippine Agents Kill Suspected Malaysian Terrorist in Davao
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-15T07:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/philippine-agents-kill-suspected-malaysian-terrorist-in-davao.html
Authorities in the Philippines shot
and killed a Malaysian man believed to be a member of the Jemaah
Islamiyah after he tried to detonate a bomb in Davao City
yesterday, a police official said.  Ronald Dela Rosa, Davao City Police director, identified
the slain suspect as Mohammad Noor Fikrie bin Abdul Kahar, a
native of  Malaysia ’s Kedah state. Kahar was shot dead by members
of the police’s Special Weapons and Tactics team in front of the
Apo View Hotel around 10:30 p.m. after a brief chase, Dela Rosa
said in a text message.  Around 7 p.m. last night, police received information that
Kahar and his Filipina wife had checked in at the Sampaguita
Hotel , bringing an “improvised explosive device to be used for
a terror attack in Davao City,” Dela Rosa said.  The military and the National Intelligence Coordinating
Agency, were alerted, and the hotel asked the suspects to leave
their room, Dela Rosa said. Kahar and his wife, later identified
as Anabelle Nieva Lee, were checking out around 10:30 p.m. when
they were approached by members of the intelligence agency and
Dela Rosa at the hotel lobby.  Kahar raised his cellphone, telling the operatives that he
would detonate a bomb if they tried to arrest or shoot him, Dela
Rosa said.  SWAT Team  “Everybody scampered for safety while the suspects went
out on the road, embracing each other, with Kahar raising his
cellphone as if warning the lawmen of an impending explosion,”
Dela Rosa said.  Members of the SWAT team, ordered to shoot Kahar, couldn’t
do it because the area was crowded with pedestrians and
motorists, Dela Rosa said.  Kahar eventually grabbed his wife’s
backpack and ran towards the People’s Park, but was eventually
cornered in front of the Apo View Hotel, where he was shot.  Police and military explosives experts later found the
bomb, which was made of a 60-millimeter mortar ammunition,
inside the backpack and disarmed it using the “water
disruptor” technique.  Lee, a native of Sorsogon and a Muslim convert, is
presently detained at the Davao City Police Office’s
investigative and detective management branch.  Kahar’s death came a month after authorities shot dead an
Indonesian also believed to be a Jemaah Islamiyah member inside
the Mindanao State University in Marawi City on Nov. 22.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  