-- QPR Gets First Win of Premier League Season Beating Fulham 2-1
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-12-15T17:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/qpr-gets-first-win-of-premier-league-season-beating-fulham-2-1.html
Queens Park Rangers picked up their
first win of the season in English soccer’s Premier League after
holding on to beat Fulham 2-1.  Adel Taarabt scored both goals as QPR ended its league-
record 16-match winless run to start a season. The victory lifts
QPR above Reading out of last place.  “It was a fantastic performance,” QPR manager  Harry Redknapp  told  Sky Sports . “It was well deserved. We were the
better team. It would have been a gross injustice if we hadn’t
won today.”  League leader  Manchester United  beat Sunderland 3-1 to
maintain its six-point advantage over  Manchester City , which
rebounded from its first loss by winning 3-1 at Newcastle.  Aston
Villa  beat Liverpool 3-1, Norwich defeated Wigan 2-1 and Stoke
drew 1-1 with Everton.  QPR remain unbeaten under Redknapp following the home win
at Loftus Road. The west  London  club had drawn all three games
since Redknapp replaced the fired Mark Hughes on Nov. 24.  Taarabt opened the scoring early in the second half with a
shot from outside the penalty area which deflected off defender
Brede Hangeland. He scored again in the 68th minute, curling a
shot into the net after making a run from midfield.  Mladen Petric pulled Fulham within a goal in the 88th
minute but QPR was able to hold on for the victory.  United, which last weekend handed Manchester rivals City
its first league loss, extended its winning streak to five
league matches at Old Trafford.  Third Goal  Robin van Persie  opened the scoring by tapping in Ashley Young’s pass in the 16th minute for his 12th goal of the season,
tying him with Swansea’s Miguel Michu for the league lead.  United’s Tom Cleverley scored three minutes later with a
shot from the left side of the penalty area and van Persie set
up the third goal in the second half by working between two
defenders in the area and sending a pass which  Wayne Rooney 
tapped in.  Fraizer Campbell scored in the 72nd minute for Sunderland,
which has won just two of its past 13 league games.  Defending champion Manchester City got back on track with
its sixth straight league win over Newcastle.  Sergio Aguero  and Javi Garcia gave City a 2-0 halftime
before Newcastle’s Demba Ba scored his 11th league goal in the
51st minute. Yaya Toure closed the scoring in the 78th minute as
City extended its unbeaten run against the Magpies to 12
matches.  Relegation Places  Christian Benteke scored two goals and Andreas Weimann had
one as Aston Villa made it five league matches unbeaten by
winning in Liverpool. Villa moves up to 14th place, three points
clear of the three teams in the relegation places at the bottom
of the standings.  Wes Hoolahan’s goal in the 64th minute gave Norwich the
home win over Wigan. Anthony Pilkington also scored for the
Canaries, who are unbeaten in 10 league matches and moved up
five places to seventh place.  Kenwyne Jones ’s goal early in the second half earned Stoke
the home draw with Everton, which took the lead on Ryan
Shawcross’s 36th-minute own goal. Stoke is unbeaten in eight
home league matches this season.  Swansea visits Tottenham and West Bromwich hosts West Ham
tomorrow, with Arsenal at Reading in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 