-- Treasuries Fall for Second Week Amid Inflation Concern
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-12-15T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/treasuries-fall-for-second-week-amid-inflation-concern-after-fed.html
Treasuries fell for a second week,
the first back-to-back losses in three months, as the  Federal
Reserve ’s expansion of a bond-buying program spurred speculation
inflation will increase.  Thirty-year  yields  touched a five-week high after the
 Federal Open Market Committee  announced plans to buy $45 billion
of Treasuries a month and took the unprecedented step of linking
stimulus measures to unemployment and inflation. Losses were
tempered by concern a budget standoff in  Washington  may push the
economy into recession. The U.S. sold $66 billion in notes and
bonds, and said it will auction $113 billion of notes next week.  “The Fed’s message was one of higher tolerance for
inflation, and they are purchasing less on the long end, which
has been bearish for bonds,” said Gary Pollack, head of fixed-
income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management
unit in  New York . “Still, the driving force in the market is
the uncertainty around the fiscal cliff, and until that’s
resolved we won’t stray far from the range.”  The  30-year bond  yield increased five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.86 percent this week in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 2.93
percent on Dec. 13, the  highest  level since Nov. 2. The price of
the 2.75 percent security due in November 2042 sank 1 2/32, or
$10.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 97 23/32. The last time it
fell two consecutive weeks was in September.  The yield on the benchmark  10-year note  climbed eight basis
points to 1.7 percent.  CPI Declines  Treasuries rose yesterday for the first time in four days,
paring weekly losses, after the Labor Department said the
 consumer price index  fell 0.3 percent in the first drop since
May. A Bloomberg survey of economists had projected a 0.2
percent decline.  The difference in yields between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, called the 10-year  break-even
rate , touched 2.51 percentage points on Dec. 12, the widest
since Nov. 7, before narrowing to 2.44 percentage points
yesterday. The gap signals traders’ expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the securities.  Volatility was at almost the lowest this week in more than
24 years. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which
measures price swings of U.S. government securities based on
options, fell to 51.6 basis points Dec. 11 and rose no higher
than 55.1 on Dec. 13. It was 51 basis points Dec. 3, the lowest
on record going back to April 1988. The 2012 average is 70.4.  Twist Expiration  The Fed’s move to buy more securities, announced on Dec. 12
after a two-day meeting, will follow the expiration at year-end
of Operation Twist, a $667 billion program in which the central
bank has swapped each month about $45 billion in short-term
Treasuries in its holdings for an equal amount of long-term
debt. The program kept the total size of the balance sheet
unchanged, while the new purchases will expand it.  The central bank already is purchasing $40 billion of
mortgage bonds each month to spur the economy.  “The Fed is going to be as accommodative as they can until
growth comes,”  Jay Mueller , who manages about $2 billion of
bonds at Wells Capital Management in  Milwaukee , said on Dec. 12.
“They are shoving people into taking riskier bets on the
investment side, and they have been successful at it. How much
they have affected the real economy is always a question.”  Fed policy makers also said  interest rates  will stay low
“at least as long” as the jobless rate remains above 6.5 percent
and projected inflation “between one and two years ahead” is at
no more than 2.5 percent. A majority of the officials forecast
unemployment won’t fall to between 6 percent and 6.6 percent
until 2015, roughly matching their previous estimate of when the
benchmark interest rate might rise.  Budget Stalemate  Treasury yields have fallen since the Nov. 6 election amid
concern U.S. lawmakers won’t resolve the  federal budget 
stalemate by year-end. If they can’t reach an agreement, more
than $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax boosts will
start Jan. 1. Going over the fiscal cliff would cause the
world’s biggest economy to contract 0.5 percent next year,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  met
Dec. 13 for a third time at the White House to discuss averting
the spending cuts and tax boosts. No progress was announced.  “There are some people questioning the value of sub-3
percent 30-year yields,” Jason Rogan, director of U.S.
government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New York-based
brokerage for institutional investors, said that day. “Still,
until we get a better idea about the economy and the fiscal
cliff, the market is going to stay relatively well bid.”  Treasury Auctions  The Treasury sold $66 billion in notes and bonds this week.
A sale of $13 billion in 30-year debt yielded 2.917 percent, the
highest level since May, while $32 billion in  three-year  notes
drew a record-low auction yield of 0.327 percent. The U.S. sold
$21 billion of 10-year securities at a yield of 1.652 percent,
the least since July.  Next week, the government will sell $35 billion in two-year
debt, an equal amount of five-year securities, $29 billion in
seven-year notes and $14 billion in five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities. The auctions will be on four consecutive
days beginning Dec. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  