-- Samsung Electronics Says Supplier HTNS Has No Underage Workers
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2012-12-15T08:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/samsung-electronics-says-supplier-htns-has-no-underage-workers.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest maker of televisions and mobile phones, said supplier
HTNS Shenzhen Co. hasn’t employed underage workers, dismissing
claims raised by a labor-rights group.  “We have confirmed that there are no underage workers
employed” at HTNS Shenzhen, the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said in an e-mailed statement today. “Samsung holds
itself and its supplier companies to the highest standards and
maintains a zero tolerance policy on child labor.”  Manufacturers including Samsung and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  have faced
scrutiny for the way component suppliers in China treat workers.
HTNS, a maker of mobile-phone covers in Huizhou City, has
employed at least three girls under the legal working age of 16,
according to a report by  China Labor Watch .  Samsung’s investigation included a meeting on Dec. 14 with
the “alleged underage employee” at the supplier and a
representative from the labor group, the company said in today’s
statement. The worker said she is over 18 years of age, and
Samsung also confirmed that two other employees, who are no
longer with the supplier, were of legal age when hired, it said.  Samsung began auditing all sites in China in September and
implemented new hiring policies to strengthen identity
verification, including in-person interviews of all candidates,
introduction of electronic devices to detect fake IDs and
enhanced training and guidelines for managers and administrative
personnel, according to today’s statement.  Ninety percent of Samsung’s parts are supplied in-house at
manufacturing facilities that offer “world-class working
conditions,” the company said today.  Samsung said it will continuously monitor suppliers in
 China  through a third-party auditor, and contracts with
suppliers that employ underage workers will be terminated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  