-- San Bernardino Union, Calpers Affirm Chapter 9 Objections
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/san-bernardino-union-calpers-affirm-chapter-9-objections.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System  and the union for San Bernardino, California,
public employees reiterated their objections to the city’s
petition for  bankruptcy protection .  The San Bernardino Public Employees Association and Calpers
filed separate replies yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Riverside, California, in support of their earlier objections to
city’s eligibility for Chapter 9 restructuring.  The union claims the bankruptcy case was improperly filed
because the city claimed there was a fiscal emergency in order
to bypass a law that mandates municipalities engage in a
“neutral evaluation” process with debt holders for 60 days, in
an attempt to reach a resolution out of court.  “The city had advanced knowledge of its fiscal condition
and imminent bankruptcy, yet the city let seven months pass
without engaging in mediation with its creditors,” the union
said. “The city’s preference for bankruptcy over the neutral
evaluation process shows that the city has not given its
citizens and workers every reasonable effort to avoid the
consequences of Chapter 9.”  In July, the city declared a fiscal emergency under an
exception to the  California  law that it claims allowed it to
forgo negotiations. Officials said the city wouldn’t be able to
pay its obligations within 60 days and that its financial
situation would put residents at risk.  Fiscal Emergency  San Bernardino realized in June it “was fast approaching
the edge of a massive fiscal cliff with no viable way to raise
revenue and cut spending fast enough to avoid falling off the
edge,” the city said in a court filing. City officials
announced the fiscal emergency to provide essential service to
residents, according to the Aug. 31 filing.  “It is painfully obvious that the city’s fiscal affairs
are in disarray,” Calpers said in its filing yesterday. “The
little information that has been produced to Calpers by the city
to date suggests that the city has been operating for more than
a decade without necessary financial controls, without
fundamental reporting mechanisms, and in a manner that violates
its own charter and state law.”  Paul Glassman, a lawyer representing the city, didn’t
immediately return a call to his firm’s office after regular
business hours yesterday seeking comment on the filings.  San Bernardino filed for municipal bankruptcy Aug. 1, the
third California city since June, after disclosing a $46 million
shortfall in its budget. The city of 209,000 about 60 miles (97
kilometers) east of  Los Angeles , listed assets and debt of more
than $1 billion in a court filing.  Under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , governments,
unlike corporations, must first prove to a judge that they are
eligible to be in bankruptcy before they can use the court
process to try to cut debt through actions such as canceling
contracts.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  