-- Saudi Arabian Shares Rise Led by Sabic and Saudi Telecom Co.
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2012-12-15T12:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/saudi-arabian-shares-rise-led-by-sabic-and-telecommunications.html
Saudi Arabia’s benchmark stock index
rose to the highest in a month, led by petrochemicals, banks and
telecommunication companies, on optimism about fourth-quarter
earnings.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , known as Sabic, advanced to
the highest since Nov. 7, while  Saudi Telecom Co. (STC)  increased the
most in two months.  Al-Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s biggest bank by
market value, climbed the most since Dec. 1.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.6 percent to 6810.98,
the highest since Nov. 14, at the close in Riyadh.  “Investors are optimistic about fourth-quarter earnings
coming out soon as well as the issuance of the Saudi government
budget for this year,” Turki Fadaak, head of research and
consultancy at Albilad Investment Company, said in an e-mail.  The kingdom’s break-even oil price to balance next year’s
budget, to be announced later this month, is estimated at $65 a
barrel, up from $62.20 this year,  National Commercial Bank  said
in an e-mailed report on Nov. 27. The biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries may record revenue
of $355 billion from oil exports this year, up from $317 billion
in 2011, according to NCB, the largest Saudi lender by assets.  Sabic, the world’s largest petrochemical maker, rose 0.6
percent to 91.25 riyals, and STC climbed 2.2 percent to 42.4
riyals. Al-Rajhi bank increased 0.8 percent to 65 riyals.  Oil capped its fifth weekly gain since Nov. 2 as
manufacturing grew in the U.S. and China, the world’s two
biggest crude-consuming countries.  Oil also rose as the euro strengthened against the dollar
after European Union chiefs pledged to seek a joint strategy for
handling failing banks. The euro gained as much as 0.7 percent
to $1.3173, the highest level since May. A stronger euro and
weaker dollar raise dollar-denominated oil’s appeal as an
investment alternative.  Saudi Arabia ’s stock exchange is the only Persian Gulf
bourse operating Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  