-- Spanish Bonds Rise After Debt Sale, EU Agreement on Greek Aid
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-12-15T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/spanish-bonds-rise-after-debt-sale-eu-agreement-on-greek-aid.html
Spanish bonds advanced for a third
week in four as borrowing costs fell at a debt sale and after
European leaders signed off on the next aid tranche for  Greece ,
stoking optimism the euro-region debt crisis is being contained.  Greece’s 10-year debt rose for a sixth week after the
nation said it had reached a deal to buy back some of its
sovereign securities. Similar-maturity German bunds fell as
European Union leaders approved the payout of 49.1 billion euros
($64.3 billion) of loans for Greece through March and laying the
groundwork for a supra-national bank supervisor, damping demand
for the safest assets.  Spain  sold 2.02 billion euros of
government debt.  “A lot of event risks have now passed, the Italian and
Spanish bond auctions have gone through without any hiccups, the
Greek tranche has been signed off and that paves the way for
limited event risks for the remainder of the year,” said
 Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “The periphery is on a
firmer footing as a result,” he said referring to lower-rated
euro-area nations.  Spanish 10-year yields slid seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, in the week to 5.39 percent at 5 p.m. London
time yesterday. The 5.85 percent bond due January 2022 rose
0.465, or 4.65 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 103.225.
Two-year yields fell eight basis points to 2.88 percent.  German 10-year  yields  climbed five basis points to 1.35
percent as demand for the region’s safest assets waned.  Rajoy Deliberations  Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has been keeping
investors guessing since August as to whether he’ll seek a
rescue that would allow the  European Central Bank  to buy the
nation’s bonds. The Spanish Treasury has sold all the debt it
planned to this year and is now building a buffer for 2013. It
faces its first debt redemptions next month.  Italy’s borrowing costs also fell at a sale of three-year
debt amid an easing of concern that Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
resignation will lead to the return of  Silvio Berlusconi . The
former premier threw his week-old political comeback into doubt
on Dec. 12 when he signaled he’d yield if Monti agrees to enter
the election campaign as part of a coalition of “moderates.”  A report scheduled for release on Dec. 19 will show German
business confidence improved for a second month in December,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . A separate report outlining Spain’s budget
balance in November is due on the following day.  German bonds returned 4.1 percent this year through Dec.
13, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish debt gained
5.2 percent and Italy’s securities earned 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  