-- Stockton Says Creditors Group Files Bankruptcy Objection
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/stockton-says-creditors-group-files-objection-to-chapter-9-1-.html
The  city of Stockton, California, 
said a group of bond insurers, banks and financial trustees
filed objections to the city’s eligibility for Chapter 9
bankruptcy protection.  Yesterday’s filing by the group, Capital Markets Creditors,
offers the first specific responses to the city’s restructuring
proposal and bankruptcy filing, according to an e-mailed
statement sent by the city. Yesterday was the deadline for
creditors to file formal objections to the city’s eligibility,
the city said in an e-mailed statement.  “The city looks forward to analyzing the specific
objections and information submitted by the CMC and will file a
complete and thorough response with the court,” according to
the statement. “We are not going to argue this in the media.”  Stockton is trying to become the first American city since
the Great Depression to use bankruptcy to force bondholders to
take less than the principal they’re owed. Vallejo,  California ,
exited bankruptcy last year after persuading lenders to take
less interest and extend repayment.  Under Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, governments,
unlike corporations, must first prove to a judge that they are
eligible to be in bankruptcy before they can use the court
process to try to cut debt through actions such as canceling
contracts.  The filing by the creditors group wasn’t immediately
available yesterday on the court’s website.  January Hearing  The city and bondholders agreed in August to return to U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Sacramento, California, in January for a
trial-like hearing over whether Stockton is legally entitled to
remain in bankruptcy after elected officials sought court
protection in June.  Stockton sought court protection on June 28, listing assets
of more than $1 billion and debt of more than $500 million.
Mammoth Lakes, California, followed Stockton into bankruptcy on
July 3 and San Bernardino, California, filed for Chapter 9
protection on Aug. 1. Mammoth Lakes won dismissal of its
bankruptcy case Nov. 19 after settling the $43 million
development lawsuit that forced the city to seek court
protection from its creditors.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-32118, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of California ( Sacramento ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 