-- U.S. Says Madoff’s Brother Peter Should Get 10-Year Term
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-15T00:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/u-s-says-madoff-s-brother-peter-should-get-10-year-term.html
Bernard Madoff ’s brother, Peter Madoff, should get a 10-year prison term for his role in
perpetuating the multibillion-dollar fraud, U.S. prosecutors
said.  Peter Madoff pleaded guilty in June in federal court in
 Manhattan  to helping his brother pull off the biggest Ponzi
scheme in U.S. history, though Peter denied knowing the business
was a sham until the firm collapsed. As part of his plea
agreement, Madoff agreed not to seek a sentence other than the
10-year term, prosecutors said.  “The government submits that a sentence of 10 years is
reasonable and appropriate in this case,” assistant U.S.
attorneys Lisa Baroni and Julian Moore said yesterday in a memo
to the judge who will sentence Madoff.  Peter Madoff , who served as the chief compliance officer of
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, helped his brother
run the firm for four decades. Peter Madoff is scheduled to be
sentenced Dec. 20 by U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain.  Prosecutors said Madoff, who trained as a lawyer,
repeatedly lied and violated the trust investors put in the firm
and also made false statements to regulators and auditors. The
government said his crimes began in about 1996 and continued
until December 2008 when the firm collapsed, which the U.S. said
was the only reason his crimes stopped.  Victims’ Compensation  As part of his plea, Madoff agreed to forfeit $143 billion,
“representing the amount of proceeds obtained as a result of
the commission of the offenses,” Baroni and Moore said. The
government will file a separate memo about victims’
compensation, prosecutors said.  “The defendant’s false statements, and his complete
failure to fulfill his duties as the chief compliance officer of
the firm, served to perpetuate the multibillion-dollar fraud in
which thousands of investors were defrauded,” prosecutors said.  Had regulators and clients known the truth about the sham
compliance program, “it is possible that the fraud would have
been detected years earlier and losses to the many victims would
have been avoided,” Baroni and Moore said.  ‘Massive’ Scheme  Madoff also engaged in a ’’massive tax fraud scheme’’ that
enriched him and his family, the U.S. said. He transferred
millions of dollars to relatives to avoid paying taxes to the
 Internal Revenue Service . The money he took permitted him to
enjoy a “lavish” lifestyle that included homes on Park Avenue
in Manhattan, in  Palm Beach ,  Florida , and in Old Westbury, on
 New York ’s  Long Island , prosecutors said.  In court papers filed today, prosecutors asked the court to
forgo restitution in the case of Peter Madoff, saying the
government can use the money to pay victims of the Ponzi scheme.  In Bernard Madoff’s case, U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin 
ruled that restitution wasn’t practical and permitted the
 Department of Justice  to use the same process.  Since then, the government has forfeited “billions” of
dollars through a variety of civil and criminal forfeiture
proceedings, prosecutors said.  “By funneling all of the forfeited funds--funds forfeited
from Madoff, from the defendants in this case, from other
cooperating defendants and from the various civil forfeiture
actions--into one pot, to be distributed through a single claims
process, the government believes that victims can most
efficiently and fairly receive the money they are due.”  Special Master  The government said they are in the process of retaining a
new special master who will preside over the case, and
anticipates establishing an Internet-based claim form for
victims to file claims in remission proceedings.  Bernard Madoff gave about $15.7 million to Peter, who then
executed sham promissory notes to make it appear the funds were
loans to avoid paying taxes, prosecutors said. Peter Madoff also
received about $7.7 million out of BLMIS bank accounts that held
investors’ money and received an addition $16.8 million from
Bernard Madoff in two sham stock trades which he didn’t pay
taxes on, the U.S. said.  Peter Madoff and his family benefited from the fraud in
other ways, including his obtaining a no-show job at the firm
for his wife in which she received as much as $160,000 a year
for no work, prosecutors said.  $300 Million  After learning of the  Ponzi scheme , Peter Madoff said he
helped his brother parcel out the $300 million remaining in the
firm to select friends and family members.  “His actions in 2008 demonstrate his character,” Baroni
and Moore wrote. “Rather than contacting  law enforcement ,
Madoff participated in a scheme to attempt to distribute the
last remaining $300 million of BLMIS investors’ funds to his own
family and close friends.”  Several victims of the fraud scheme have asked to speak at
Madoff’s sentencing, including Marion Wiesel, wife of Nobel
laureate Elie Wiesel, the U.S. said. The scheme hurt both the
personal finances of the Wiesels and the Elie Wiesel Foundation
for Humanity, which lost $15.2 million, or “substantially” all
of its assets, Marion Wiesel said in a letter to the court.  “The dissipation of these funds meant a crippling
inability to meet outstanding obligations in both the immediate
short term as well as long term,” she wrote.  Other Victims  Michael and Emma De Vita, who were also victims of the
fraud, wrote that Peter Madoff could have stepped forward to
stop the fraud from continuing.  “He chose not to!” they wrote. “The entire investment
advisory team waited -- until the scheme collapsed. Then they
played the part of three blind mice -- hear no evil, see no evil
and do no evil.”  Peter Madoff’s sentencing memo to the court wasn’t filed
publicly. John Wing, a lawyer for Madoff, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message after regular business hours seeking
comment on yesterday’s filing.  Peter Madoff pleaded guilty June 29 to one count of
conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  and one count of
falsifying records. The plea came three years to the day after
his brother was sentenced to 150 years in prison.  During his plea, Peter Madoff told the court he had no
knowledge of his brother’s scheme until Dec. 9, 2008, the night
Bernard Madoff confessed to him that the investment business was
a sham. Bernard Madoff was arrested and confessed to authorities
two days later, on Dec. 11.  The case is U.S. v. Madoff, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  