-- Yen Drops for Fifth Week on Post-Election Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-12-15T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-15/yen-drops-for-fifth-week-on-post-election-stimulus-speculation.html
The yen slumped for a fifth week
against the dollar, the longest streak since March, before
Japanese opposition leader Shinzo Abe, an advocate of unlimited
monetary stimulus, is projected to win weekend elections.  The 17-nation euro gained against all of its major peers
after European Union finance ministers agreed to put the
 European Central Bank  in charge of the area’s lenders. The
dollar fell against the majority of its most-traded peers as the
 Federal Reserve  said it will buy an additional $45 billion of
Treasuries a month, which may debase the currency. The Japanese
currency reached an almost nine-month low as the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
said its Tankan index for large companies fell to its lowest
level since March 2010.  Japan ’s election is tomorrow.  “The yen weakness is clearly a reflection of expectations
for additional political pressure on the Bank of Japan following
this weekend’s election,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in
 Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency
brokerage, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We’ve seen
the yen depreciate so rapidly against the dollar for the last
month that it’s ripe for some profit-taking.”  The yen fell 1.3 percent this week to 83.52 per dollar in
New York, completing the longest stretch of declines since the
period ended March 16. It reached its lowest level since March
21. The Japanese currency decreased 3 percent to 109.90 per euro
after falling to its weakest level since April. The euro added
1.8 percent to $1.3163, reaching the strongest level since May
4.
‘  Franc, Real  The Swiss franc was the second-biggest winner among its 16
most-traded peers this week, lagging behind just the euro,
climbing 1.8 percent to 91.78 centimes per dollar.  Brazil ’s real
was the second-worst performer behind the yen, declining 0.5
percent to 2.0860 per dollar.  Net-wagers the Australian dollar  will rise  against the
greenback increased to a record 103,376 contracts last week,
while speculators also  pushed  net-longs for the Mexican peso to
an all-time high 149,271 contracts, according to Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data.  Futures traders  added to bets  the yen will fall against the
dollar in the week ended Dec. 4, pushing net-shorts to 94,401,
the most since 2007  Japan’s currency has fallen 11.6 percent this year, the
most out of its major peers, according to the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-nation
currencies. The dollar has been the second-worst performer,
losing 3.1 percent. The euro has declined 1.4 percent, while the
 New Zealand dollar  has been the best performer, rising 6.5
percent.  Fed Policy  The dollar weakened as the Fed tied its policies to
economic benchmarks and added to its third round of quantitative
easing, matching economists’ forecasts. The U.S. faces a fiscal
cliff of $607 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax boosts
starting Jan. 1 if lawmakers can’t reach agreement. That would
cause the economy to contract 0.5 percent next year, according
to the  Congressional Budget Office .  “The market tends to have that kind of reaction when an
action is perceived as more quantitative easing,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist in New York at Credit
Agricole SA, said in a Dec. 12 telephone interview.  The Dollar Index, which measures the currency against the
euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and Swedish
krona, ended the week down 1.1 percent to 79.561, after touching
the lowest level since Oct. 22.  Pound Rating  The pound fell versus the euro after  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered the outlook for Britain’s AAA ratings on Dec. 13, citing
weak economic growth and a worsening debt profile. The outlook,
revised from stable, reflects the view that S&P has a one-in-
three chance of lowering the ratings in the next two years,
according to a statement from the ratings company.  “Some of the  ratings agencies  are becoming more concerned
that the targets are slipping,”  Ned Rumpeltin , head of Group of
10 currency strategy at Standard Chartered Group Plc in  London ,
said in a Dec. 13 interview. “Over the next couple of days,
there will be some downside risk for the pound.”  Sterling declined 1 percent to 81.38 pence per euro.  Sweden’s krona fell to its weakest level against the euro
in more than five months after data released on Dec. 13 showed
consumer prices fell for the first time in three years and
unemployment rose, increasing the likelihood that the central
bank will lower  interest rates  next week.  The krona dropped 1.8 percent to 8.7885 per euro, reaching
its lowest level since June 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  