-- Cyprus President Delays Parliament Vote on Deposit Tax Plan
-- B y   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u ,   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2013-03-17T15:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/anastasiades-seeks-cyprus-parliament-support-for-deposit-losses.html
Cyprus’s President Nicos Anastasiades will seek approval to impose losses on the island-
nation’s depositors tomorrow, a day later than planned as he
seeks more time to convince lawmakers to back him.  Anastasiades, less than a month in the job, will meet with
the country’s lawmakers tomorrow, before the Parliament session
on the legislation begins at 4 p.m., the Press and Information
Office said in a statement on its website. The  European Central
Bank  is pressing for the Cypriot government to stick to the
original intention to hold a vote today on the plan, which would
make Cyprus the first euro-area rescue to impose depositor
losses, two people with knowledge of the discussions said.  With his Disy party holding 20 seats in the 56-seat
legislature, Anastasiades needs at least nine more votes to
secure approval and avoid the financial collapse of the region’s
third-smallest economy. If he doesn’t get backing for the plan,
the banks may stay shut starting March 19, state-run Cyprus
Broadcasting Corp. said. Tomorrow is a bank holiday in Cyprus.  “If tomorrow Cyprus’s Parliament rejects the bill, Cyprus
opens the road to chaos,” said Afxentis Afxentiou, who was
governor of the Central Bank of Cyprus from 1982 until 2002,
said on CYBC. If the bill is rejected, “Cyprus will turn into
 Libya . Even with the pain, we need to follow a normal course,
with hope we’ll see better days.”  Stalled Bailout  Euro-area finance ministers meeting in Brussels on March 15
and in the early hours of yesterday agreed to tax  bank deposits 
in Cyprus as part of a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout
mostly aimed at saving the country’s banks. Anastasiades, 66,
was elected Cyprus’s leader on Feb. 24 on a promise to revive
bailout talks, while refusing to accept losses for depositors.  “We faced decisions that had already been taken,”
Anastasiades said in a statement yesterday. He said the ECB
would stop providing liquidity to one of the country’s banks on
March 19, leading to its collapse if his government didn’t
accept the rescue package.  The choice was between “the catastrophic scenario of
disorderly bankruptcy or the scenario of a painful but
controlled management of the crisis,” he said.  Anastasiades met with leaders of the nation’s political
parties yesterday. While he may get support from the third-
biggest party, Diko, which backed Anastasiades in the election,
Diko’s eight seats won’t assure him a majority.  Deposit Tax  The debate on the law, which will impose a levy of 6.75
percent on deposits of less than 100,000 euros and 9.9 percent
of more than that, will be preceded by more meetings between
Anastasiades and political leaders. Anastasiades, who met with
his ministers today, will convene another meeting of the cabinet
tomorrow morning, CYBC said.  The measure, which is designed to raise 5.8 billion euros,
means a smaller bailout for the east Mediterranean island nation
than the 17.5 billion euros envisioned at one point. Cypriots
woke up yesterday to find bank transfers frozen as the country’s
authorities prepared to remove the tax from accounts before
banks reopen on March 19.  George Perdikes, a lawmaker from the  Green Party  who sits
on Parliament’s finance committee, said ways were being examined
to soften the blow to depositors. These include giving them
bonds linked to profits from the country’s gas reserves, he said
in comments broadcast on CYBC after a meeting of the committee’s
members with Anastasiades.  ‘Lose-Lose’  “This is a lose-lose situation,” he said. “Whatever
happens there will be a massive outflow from Cypriot banks, with
or without a haircut.”  European officials have struggled to find an agreement that
would rescue Cyprus, which accounts for less than half of a
percent of the euro region’s economy, without unsettling
investors in larger countries and sparking a new round of market
contagion. Other elements of the rescue include asset sales and
an increase in the corporate  tax rate  to 12.5 percent from 10
percent.  Cyprus in June became the fifth euro-area nation to request
a rescue, after  Greece ’s debt restructuring, the largest in
history, hurt lenders including  Bank of Cyprus Plc  and  Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , the nation’s two biggest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  