-- Manchester City’s Premiership Title Hopes Hit by Everton
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-16T20:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/manchester-city-s-premiership-title-hopes-hit-by-everton.html
Manchester United  beat Reading 1-0
to increase its lead in English soccer’s Premier League to 15
points over Manchester City, which lost 2-0 to 10-man Everton.  Wayne Rooney  scored the only goal as United stretched its
unbeaten run in the league to 17 games with its sixth straight
win. United has 74 points and needs just 13 from its final nine
games to win a record-extending 20th English league title.  “It wasn’t a great performance, but where we are today is
not down to today but the last six months,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  said on the club’s website. “It’s a great position to
be in but the only thing we can do is win our next game.”  Leon Osman  and Nikica Jelavic scored as Everton overcame
the second-half sending off of  Steven Pienaar  to beat defending
champion Manchester City. Southampton beat Liverpool 3-1,  Aston
Villa  defeated Queens Park Rangers 3-2, Arsenal beat Swansea 2-
0, while Stoke and West Brom finished 0-0 in today’s other
matches.  Rooney scored with a deflected shot in the 21st minute at
Old Trafford in Manchester to give United a tougher-than-
expected win over a Reading team that sits next-to-last in the
standings.  Rio Ferdinand  set up the goal by intercepting a pass from
Garath McCleary and carrying it forward before feeding Rooney to
his left. The England striker took a shot that hit Alex Pearce
and left goalkeeper Stuart Taylor with no chance to stop it.  Reading, which was playing its first match since manager
Brian McDermott was fired five days ago, lost its fifth straight
match.  Everton Rebounds  Everton rebounded from a 3-0 home loss to Wigan in the F.A.
Cup quarterfinals to beat Manchester City for the sixth time in
the past eight meetings. The win lifts the Toffees over
Liverpool into sixth place.  “We played the champions of England and I thought we gave
them a right good going for their money,” Everton manager  David Moyes  said on the club’s website.  Osman then scored in the 32nd minute with a swerving shot
into the top corner from 25 yards out. Everton then went down to
10 men in the 61st minute as Pienaar received his second yellow
card for a challenge on Javi Garcia.  City later appealed for a penalty when  Marouane Fellaini 
appeared to be in the area when the ball hit his arm. However,
referee Lee Probert awarded a free kick just outside the box,
which  Aleksandar Kolarov  hit into the wall.  Everton then clinched the victory in stoppage time on a
counter attack as Jelavic beat  Joe Hart  with a deflected shot.  Relegation Zone  Southampton moved seven points clear of the three-team
relegation zone at the bottom of the standings with its home win
over Liverpool. Morgan Schneiderlein, Rickie Lambert and Jay
Rodriguez scored as the Saints ended a three-match winless run.  Aston Villa also helped its chances of avoiding relegation
by beating last-place QPR. Christian Benteke’s goal with nine
minutes left gave Villa, which moved six points ahead of the
drop zone, the win.  Nacho Monreal and Gervinho scored in the second half as
Arsenal won at Swansea to pull within two points of Chelsea in
the race for fourth place and the final Champions League
qualifying spot.  Stoke climbed into the top half of the standings after
finishing scoreless with eighth-place West Brom. It was Stoke’s
league-high 13th draw of the season.  Sunderland hosts Norwich, Fulham visits Tottenham, Chelsea
plays West Ham and Newcastle is at Wigan in tomorrow’s matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 