-- Laura Boldrini Chosen Speaker of Italy’s Chamber of Deputies
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-16T14:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/laura-boldrini-chosen-speaker-of-italy-s-chamber-of-deputies.html
Laura Boldrini, a journalist and
former spokeswoman for the UN’s refugee agency, was chosen
speaker of  Italy ’s Chamber of Deputies as Democratic Party
leader Pier Luigi Bersani seeks to broaden his support.  Boldrini, endorsed today by Bersani’s party, won on the
fourth ballot in the lower house when the rules were eased to
allow for a candidate to be chosen by a simple majority rather
than two-thirds. Bersani now turns his attention to the Senate,
where members of the Democratic Party proposed Pietro Grasso,
the nation’s top anti-mafia prosecutor.  The assignment of speakerships is parliament’s first step
toward forming a government following the inconclusive general
election last month. By eschewing incumbent lawmakers and
proposing political newcomers, Bersani is appealing to members
of Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement. The endorsements were
criticized by Silvio Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party.  The gridlock over naming the speakers illustrates the
challenges President Giorgio Napolitano faces as he prepares to
begin consultations next week with the main parties to try to
form a government. The February vote left the  Democratic Party ,
or PD, with a majority in the lower house while Berlusconi and
Grillo, an ex-comic, each won a blocking minority in the Senate.  Boldrini was elected as part of the Left, Ecology and
Freedom party, or SEL. The party, headed by Puglia Governor
Nicchi Vendola, is an ally of the PD and said during the
election campaign that Bersani was its choice for premier.
Grasso is a member of the PD.  Vito Crimi, Five Star’s head in the Senate, praised Bersani
for backing political neophytes for the speakerships, while
criticizing him for not selecting lawmakers from outside of the
PD-SEL alliance, newswire Ansa reported. Angelino Alfano,
general secretary of the People of Liberty, said Bersani’s
attempt to build consensus will fail.  “With Grasso in the Senate and Boldrini in the Chamber,
the country will remain without a government,” Alfano said on
Twitter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  