-- Bachelet Quits UN to Return to Chile Before Elections
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-03-16T02:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/bachelet-quits-un-to-return-to-chile-before-elections.html
Former Chilean President Michelle Bachelet resigned from her position at the United Nations to
return to her homeland ahead of elections in November.  Bachelet, constitutionally banned from running for a second
consecutive term, took a break from politics to lead UN Women, a
gender-equality agency created in 2010, the same year she left
office. She remains her country’s most popular politician.  “I’m going back to my country,” she said on Twitter at
the end of a grueling round of negotiations in New York on a
document about eliminating violence against women and girls.  With elections in the Andean country looming, Bachelet’s
departure from a position she held for two years will likely end
speculation about whether she will run again. When she left
office, the former physician enjoyed a 78 percent approval
rating, according to Santiago-based polling company CEP.  By contrast, the current leader and political rival,
Sebastian Pinera, has the lowest approval rating of any
president since the Latin American nation’s return to democracy
in 1990. Pinera, like Bachelet before him, is barred by law from
running for a consecutive term.  Bachelet’s return may also bring back to power her
Socialist Party, ousted by conservative Pinera’s National
Renewal party. The winning political coalition will inherit
South America’s second-fastest-growing economy after  Peru  yet
also civil unrest following two years of protests by students.  Born into a military family, Bachelet has a compelling
personal story anchored in Chile’s tumultuous past.  Detained, Tortured  As a 23-year-old medical student, she was detained and
tortured by officers of Augusto Pinochet’s dictatorship in 1975.
The year before, Bachelet’s father, Air Force General Alberto
Bachelet, died in jail of a heart attack after being tortured on
suspicion he opposed the coup that toppled Socialist President
Salvador Allende.  Bachelet completed her studies in East Germany after being
exiled to  Australia . An agnostic and divorced mother of three in
a Catholic country, she defied social norms on her return to
Chile and rise to power. Her first cabinet post was as health
minister. She then became defense minister at a time her U.S.
counterpart was Donald Rumsfeld.  At the UN, where she enjoyed a high profile, she does not
leave much of a legacy as her office carried no executive powers
and her role was confined to raising awareness about the
condition of women.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today said she was “the
right person in the right job at the right time.”  Bachelet herself said that what she brought to the job were
her contacts and close relationships with other leaders,
including former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who
has been mentioned as a possible presidential contender in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  