-- Chesapeake, BNY Mellon Meet Over Weekend on Call Trial
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/chesapeake-bny-mellon-meet-over-weekend-on-call-trial.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  was told by
a judge to meet with Bank of New York Mellon Corp. and investors
this weekend to agree on a schedule for a rapid trial over
whether the gas company was too late yesterday when it issued a
notice to redeem $1.3 billion in bonds early at par.  The day before Chesapeake made the call, U.S. District
Judge Paul Engelmayer in  Manhattan  denied an injunction sought
by the company and directed the parties to submit a joint letter
to him by March 18 saying what they plan to do going forward. He
scheduled another hearing on the matter for March 19 at 5 p.m.  Chesapeake had sought an order barring  BNY Mellon (BK) , the
trustee, and a group of noteholders from treating the early call
as a “make-whole” redemption costing an extra $400 million in
interest if Chesapeake was found to be wrong about the timing of
the notice. Though Chesapeake lost the request, the judge said
there was little risk it would ever be forced to make the extra
payment if it chose to take the dispute to trial, giving it the
confidence it needed to issue the notice.  The company said in a statement yesterday that it will
continue to pursue the lawsuit to confirm that it has met the
deadline to redeem without triggering the make-whole provision.
The 6.775 percent notes fell yesterday the most since May.  “The court stated multiple times that it is
‘overwhelmingly’ likely that the company’s notice to redeem at
par will not be determined by the court to be a notice to redeem
under the ‘make-whole’ provision of the indenture, even if the
notice to redeem at par is ultimately deemed untimely,”
Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake said in yesterday’s statement.  Notes Fall  The $1.3 billion of 6.775 percent notes due March 2019 fell
2.25 cents on the dollar to 105 cents yesterday in  New York ,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The shares fell 6 cents
to $22.46 the same day in New York Stock Exchange trading.  Chesapeake, the  second-biggest  natural gas producer in the
U.S., argued that yesterday was the deadline for it to issue a
notice of early redemption and avoid the make-whole provision.
BNY Mellon said the call would have to be completed yesterday
and it’s now too late. Payment will be made on May 13 subject to
a court ruling that Chesapeake met its deadline.  Engelmayer, in his ruling, said the contract was ambiguous
and he would need to see evidence about how it was drafted
before deciding at a trial which side is correct.  Rush Trial  Engelmayer said in his March 14 ruling that “the ball is
in Chesapeake’s court as to whether or not to issue the notice
of special redemption,” and that if it did so, he would rush a
trial outcome “comfortably” within 60 days.  “In the event that a notice is issued, this litigation
needs to move forward fast, presumably with extremely expedited
discovery,” Engelmayer said, referring to the production of
evidence by both sides.  Chesapeake sued on March 8, seeking a court order allowing
it to issue a notice to bondholders that it would redeem the
6.775 percent notes at par, or 100 cents on the dollar, six
years before they mature and without risk of a make-whole
demand.  BNY Mellon , the world’s largest custody bank, triggered the
lawsuits after it initially agreed with Chesapeake and then
changed its position when noteholder River Birch Capital LLC
objected.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the bank, declined to comment
on the redemption notice.  Pursue Litigation  Chesapeake may pursue the litigation so it can issue notes
of the same maturity with interest of 4.75 percent to 5 percent,
Brian Gibbons Jr., an analyst at New York-based CreditSights
Inc., wrote in a report on March 14.  “There is some reputational risk for the company with the
bondholders broadly, but we’ve seen way worse behavior rapidly
forgiven,” he said.  While the dispute over the make-whole provision went in
favor of Chesapeake, the company still needs to prove at trial
that its interpretation of the March 15 deadline is correct to
meet the goal of refinancing the debt at a lower  interest rate .
That means the early redemption could still be scrapped within
two months if the company was wrong about the deadline.
Engelmayer said the noteholders appear to have a better argument
based on the early evidence he’s seen.  “On the very limited extrinsic materials submitted to me
at this stage, the noteholders seem to have, slightly, the
better of the argument,” Engelmayer said.  Claim Rejected  Engelmayer rejected River Birch’s claim that an early-
redemption notice would cause “economic harm” to recent
purchasers of the notes, particularly those who thought Feb. 13
was about the last date Chesapeake could issue such a notice and
complete the call by March 15. River Birch bought the notes on
Feb. 15, according to the ruling.  The group of investors involved in the case also includes
Archer Capital Management LP, Ares Management LLC, Aurelius
Capital Management LP, Carlson Capital LP, Cetus Capital LLC,
Latigo Partners LLP, Monarch Alternative Capital LP, Schoenfeld
Asset Management LP and Taconic Capital Advisors LP.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  