-- China’s Former Ambassador to Japan Appointed as Foreign Minister
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-16T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/china-appoints-former-ambassador-to-japan-as-foreign-minister.html
Wang Yi, a career diplomat and
former ambassador to Japan, was named  China ’s foreign minister,
as Asia’s two biggest economies grapple with a territorial
dispute in the  East China Sea .  Wang, whose appointment was ratified by the National
People’s Congress in Beijing yesterday, replaces Yang Jiechi, 62,
who was an interpreter for former U.S. President  George H.W.
Bush  when he served as a diplomat in Beijing in the 1970s. Yang
was named as one of five councilors to the State Council, the
cabinet, which is headed by Premier  Li Keqiang .  Wang, 59, will move from the Taiwan Affairs Office, where
he was director. He was ambassador to Japan from 2004 to 2007,
and previously headed the Foreign Ministry’s Asia department. A
visiting scholar at  Georgetown University  in 1997, he worked in
Japan in the late 1980s and early 1990s.  A dispute with Japan over islands in the East China Sea,
known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese, has harmed
trade and economic ties between the two countries and inflamed
historical tensions. Japan invaded China in the 1930s, and China
lost a war to Japan in 1894, both still symbols of humiliation
to many Chinese.  Japan has challenged the international order created since
the end of World War II and seriously damaged relations between
the two countries, Yang said at a March 9 press conference
during the NPC’s annual session. He urged Japan to make
“concrete efforts” to improve its relations with China. Yang,
from  Shanghai , was named foreign minister in 2007. He served as
ambassador to the U.S. from December 2000 until late 2004 during
 George W. Bush ’s first term in office.  Japan Protests  Yoshihiko Noda, Japan’s then-prime minister, authorized the
purchase of three of the islands in September, sparking violent
protests in China that damaged Japanese businesses. China claims
the islands, which are administered by Japan, are a part of its
sovereign territory.  Dai Bingguo, who was the counterpart to former U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , is no longer a state
councilor. Yang’s experience as foreign minister puts him in
line to assume Dai’s role.  China brought the law-enforcement arms of its maritime
agencies under one body this month, a signal the country wants
to better organize its maritime assets amid territorial disputes
with Japan, the  Philippines  and  Vietnam .  Regional Tensions  The nation’s military will also be a part of President Xi Jinping’s response to regional tensions. Xi became chairman of
the People’s Liberation Army military commission in November,
unlike former President  Hu Jintao  who had to wait for two years
for the post.  Chang Wanquan, 64, was appointed defense minister yesterday,
replacing Liang Guanglie. General Chang also sits on the
Communist Party’s Central Military Commission, the body that
controls the military.  China’s armed forces have a dream to become a strong
military just as China has a dream to become a strong country,
General Liu Yazhou, a political commissar at the National
Defense University, wrote in a March 15 article in the People’s
Daily newspaper. The army needs to be vigilant against
corruption, he wrote.  In a sign China is trying to improve relations in the
region, the Foreign Ministry appointed Wang Yingfan as its first
envoy for Asian affairs, ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said
March 11.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  