-- China Will Tighten Policies to Cut Crisis Risk, Nomura Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 2013-03-16T08:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/china-may-tighten-policies-to-contain-growing-risks-nomura-says.html
China  will probably tighten
policies this year to contain the growing risks of a
“systemic” financial crisis, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  China is displaying the same three symptoms that  Japan , the
U.S. and parts of  Europe  showed before their respective
financial crises, economists Zhang Zhiwei and Wendy Chen wrote
in a note dated yesterday. These signs are a rapid build-up of
leverage, elevated property prices and a decline in potential
economic growth, they said.  “Our base case is that the government will tighten
policies,” Zhang, Hong Kong-based chief China economist, and
Chen wrote. “If a loose policy stance is maintained and these
risks are not brought under control, strong growth of above 8
percent in 2013 is possible, but that would heighten the risks
of high inflation and a financial crisis in 2014.”  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said this
week the country should be on “high alert” over inflation, and
monetary policy was “no longer relaxed.” While the central
bank has left interest rates and lenders’ reserve requirements
unchanged since July last year, it withdrew capital from the
financial system this week for the fourth week and hasn’t issued
bills that add cash since Feb. 7.  The State Council intensified this month a three-year
campaign to control home prices, sending  property stocks 
tumbling, and outgoing Premier Wen Jiabao set a lower 2013
target of 13 percent for expansion of M2, the country’s broadest
measure of money supply.  Property Bubble  Leverage in China’s economy, as measured by the credit-to-
gross domestic product ratio, has reached its highest level
since data was made available in 1978, according to Nomura,
while the risk of a property-price bubble bursting is
increasing. At the same time, a declining labor force and weaker
productivity growth may drag on the economy, the analysts said.  Zhang and Chen’s outlook contrasts with that of HSBC
Holdings Plc., which said on March 10 that the central bank will
probably keep monetary policy “relatively accommodative” in
coming quarters as inflation pressure remains “modest,”
helping to support the economic recovery.  China’s retail sales and industrial output had their
weakest combined start to a year since the global recession in
2009, adding to signs of a moderating rebound in the world’s
second-biggest economy. February  inflation , distorted by the
weeklong Lunar New Year holiday, accelerated to a 10-month-high
of 3.2 percent. That’s less than China’s target of 3.5 percent
growth in consumer prices for the year.  Stock Declines  Concern that monetary tightening and property curbs will
slow expansion has dragged the benchmark  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  down 6.4 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 6, wiping
out almost all of 2013’s gains. The  gauge  trades for 12.6 times
reported earnings, 22 percent cheaper than the MSCI All-Country
World Index.  The government will “gradually” bring down growth in M2
and  total social financing , a broader measure of funding in the
economy, starting as early as the second quarter of this year,
Zhang and Chen estimate. It will also tighten controls on so-
called shadow-banking activities and local government financing
vehicles, and raise interest rates twice in the second half of
2013, they wrote.  The cost of such tightening would be a slowdown in economic
 growth  to 7.3 percent in the second half of the year compared
with a year earlier, from 8.1 percent in the first six months,
according to Nomura. China’s GDP grew 7.8 percent in 2012, the
least in 13 years.  “As history has repeatedly shown, the slower the policy
response to financial excesses, the greater the risk of a
systemic financial crisis and the more challenging it will be to
avoid a hard economic landing,” the Nomura economists wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Frost in Hong Kong at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stan James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  