-- China Extends Zhou’s Record 10-Year Tenure as Central Bank Chief
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-16T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/china-to-extend-zhou-s-record-tenure-as-central-bank-governor.html
China  extended  Zhou Xiaochuan ’s
record tenure as central bank governor, a signal the nation’s
new leaders will deepen a shift toward making the financial
system more market-driven.  The reappointment of Zhou, 65, was made at the National
People’s Congress yesterday in Beijing as it approved a new
economic team for Premier  Li Keqiang , who replaced  Wen Jiabao  on
March 15. The announcements didn’t disclose whether Zhou will
remain the People’s Bank of China Communist Party secretary or
if another official will take the post.  Adding to Zhou’s decade in the role provides stability as
China grapples with rising shadow-banking risks and changes how
it conducts  monetary policy . The governor, whose omission from
the party’s new  Central Committee  in November fueled speculation
he would retire, will be charged with loosening interest-rate
controls and expanding international use of the yuan.  “Zhou has proved to be a capable central banker who is
recognized both within China and globally,” said Lu Ting, head
of Greater China economics at Bank of America Corp. in Hong Kong.
“Zhou’s rich experiences will be valuable for new leaders who
may not be so familiar with conducting monetary policy.”  Negative Votes  Zhou’s reappointment was approved by a vote of 2,753 to 158,
with 41 abstentions, the third-most negative ballots yesterday
behind the housing and environment ministers. It comes after Xi Jinping’s ascent to the presidency, succeeding  Hu Jintao , and
Li’s selection as premier, completing a transfer of power that
started in November when Xi was named head of the party and Li
its No. 2.  The negative votes may reflect sentiment that “in the past
five years a lot of money has been printed, and inflation is too
high and  home prices  are too high,” Lu said. “Some of these
criticisms are not fair.”  China is retaining its best-known finance official
internationally while central banks in Japan, the U.K. and
Canada are getting new chiefs this year. Even so, the PBOC
governor works within the confines of a system where China’s
State Council, or cabinet, decides on policies including
 interest rates , leaving the central bank without the autonomy of
counterparts in the U.S. and Europe.  The Communist Party’s omission of Zhou as a member of its
205-member Central Committee in November, and a Feb. 2 profile
by the official China Securities Journal that said he’d step
down in March, had suggested that the governor, who took office
in 2002, would leave as part of China’s once-a-decade leadership
change.  Party Secretary  Minister-level officials such as Zhou also usually hold the
post of the agency’s party secretary. Reuters and the Wall
Street Journal reported last month that Bank of China Ltd.
Chairman Xiao Gang would take that position at the PBOC while
Zhou remained governor. Reuters and the Wall Street Journal
later said Xiao may become securities regulator instead.  Zhou was named March 11 as one of 23 vice chairmen of the
nation’s top government advisory body, the  Chinese People’s
Political Consultative Conference . The position allows him to
serve beyond  retirement age , a person with direct knowledge of
the leadership discussions told Bloomberg News last month.  The governor led the central bank during the global
financial crisis and oversaw exchange-rate reforms in July 2005
that paved the way for the  yuan  to rise more than 30 percent
against the  U.S. dollar . He also expanded the  bond market , gave
banks more freedom to set  lending  and deposit rates and loosened
controls over the yuan’s use for international trade and
investment purposes.  Relax Limit  A Bloomberg News survey conducted from Feb. 28 to March 5
found that 12 of 16 analysts expect China this year to relax or
remove the cap on deposit rates or the floor on lending rates.
Five said the PBOC is likely to use a market-based interest rate,
such as a repurchase rate, as a new benchmark.  “The major reason they kept him on is to reassure the
western world that reform of the currency regime and other
financial reforms will be maintained,” said Willy Wo-Lap Lam,
an adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese University  of
 Hong Kong .  The governor must also confront an expansion in credit
outside the banking system that includes less-regulated products
such as trust loans. Aggregate financing, an  indicator  started
by the PBOC in 2011 to provide a broader gauge of funding in the
economy, more than doubled to a record 2.54 trillion yuan ($408
billion) in January from a year earlier.  Control Prices  Zhou’s most recent comments signal a heightened focus on
controlling prices. He said at a press briefing March 13 that
China should be on “high alert” over inflation after
February’s figure exceeded forecasts. Monetary policy is “no
longer relaxed” and is “relatively neutral” as demonstrated
by a 13 percent target for money-supply growth that’s tighter
than expansion in the last two years, Zhou said.  February inflation, distorted by the weeklong Lunar New
Year holiday, accelerated to a 10-month-high of 3.2 percent. New
lending in February and retail sales and industrial production
in the first two months of 2013 all missed analyst estimates,
fanning concerns that a rebound in the world’s second-largest
economy may be moderating.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  