-- China Adds Lou to Economic Team as Nomura Sees Crisis Risk
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-17T06:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/china-fills-out-economic-team-with-lou-as-financial-risks-mount.html
China filled out Premier  Li Keqiang ’s economic team, installing sovereign-wealth head  Lou Jiwei  as finance minister and retaining  Zhou Xiaochuan  as
central bank chief as a once-a-decade power handover concluded.  Gao Hucheng, 61, will be commerce minister after the
National People’s Congress approved his appointment in a vote in
Beijing yesterday. Xu Shaoshi, 61, will head the National
Development and Reform Commission, the economic planning agency.  The leadership lineup under Li, who today urged paring back
the government’s role in the economy, is a mix of “activist
reformers” such as Zhou and Lou, and more cautious officials,
according to Yukon Huang, a former World Bank country head for
China. At stake is the speed of policy moves to deepen a shift
toward free markets and limit a slide in growth, as Nomura
Holdings Inc. warns of mounting risks of a financial crisis amid
increases in credit and property prices.  “The short-term challenge is how to suck the oxygen out of
shadow financing and the  property market  without sucking the
oxygen out of the economy,” said Alistair Thornton, a Beijing-
based economist at research company  IHS Inc. (IHS)  “Long-term, it’s
about how to reduce the state’s hold over the economy, which
increasingly is jeopardizing the sustainability of growth.”  Speaking at a press briefing in Beijing, Li said the
government needs to tackle vested interests and take the
revolutionary step of cutting its own power. He added that
growth of 7.5 percent per year is needed to meet government
goals, which include doubling per-capita income by 2020.  Vice Premiers  Zhang Gaoli, appointed as the most senior vice premier,
will be among officials serving as a counter-balance to those
pushing for change, said Huang, a senior associate at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.  Politburo members Wang Yang, who’s the former Communist
Party secretary of Guangdong, Liu Yandong and former state
planner Ma Kai also became vice premiers. One of the officials
at that level, ranked higher than ministry heads, is likely to
serve as counterpart to U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew,
due to visit Beijing on March 19 and 20.  The world’s second-biggest economy faces rising risks
because of excessive credit, elevated property prices, declines
in the labor force and limited productivity gains, according to
a March 15 report from Nomura.  A slowdown in “reform
momentum” after China joined the  World Trade Organization  in
2001 is holding the nation back, the investment bank said.  Monetary Policy  The government has avoided difficult changes “such as
moving to a fully market-based monetary policy framework and
opening up the service sector that is monopolized by the state-
owned enterprises,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at
Nomura in  Hong Kong . He sees a slowdown to 7.3 percent growth in
the second half of 2013 as officials tighten policies to head
off any crisis.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  is down more than 6 percent
from this year’s Feb. 6 peak on concerns that monetary
tightening and property curbs will slow expansion. The economy
grew 7.8 percent last year, the least since 1999.  Zhou’s role may signal that the new Communist Party
leadership will press on with loosening controls on  interest
rates  and expanding international use of the  yuan . Li became
premier on March 15, while  Xi Jinping  replaced  Hu Jintao  as
president on March 14.  Wealth Fund  Lou, 62, may be the new appointee with the highest
international profile, after overseeing purchases including a
stake in Morgan Stanley as founding chairman of sovereign wealth
fund China Investment Corp. In January this year, he said the
fund was trying to cut an “over-reliance on  U.S. debt .” He
also predicted that loose monetary policies would persist,
saying that the so-called QE3 round of easing in the U.S. would
be followed by “QE infinite.”  “Lou will enhance China’s influence in multilateral
institutions,” said  David Loevinger , former senior coordinator
for China affairs at the U.S. Treasury Department, who’s now an
analyst in Los Angeles at TCW Group Inc., which oversees about
$138 billion. “He is well known and well regarded by the
international financial community. He brings a practical, rather
than an ideological, approach to financial diplomacy.”  At home, Lou will face challenges including local
governments’ debt burdens.  Command Economy  Xu, the head of the NDRC, was previously the minister of
land and resources, charged with defending a so-called “red
line” of 1.8 billion mu, or 120 million hectares, of arable
land. The NDRC is a planning body with origins in China’s
command economy, before  Deng Xiaoping  drove the nation’s opening
up from the late 1970s. It gained extra responsibilities in
changes approved March 14, adding power-market regulation to its
National Energy Administration and taking over population
strategy.  Gao, the commerce chief, was previously a vice minister and
China’s international trade representative, serving at the
ministry under  Bo Xilai , the disgraced former Chongqing party
secretary, and then Chen Deming. Gao has ties with Africa, after
studying in the 1970s in Zaire, now the Democratic Republic of
the Congo.  One of the most important decisions for U.S.-Chinese ties
may be the choice of the vice premier to serve as counterpart to
U.S. Treasury secretary, a role previously held by  Wang Qishan .
That relationship was “critical in steering the bilateral
relationship through the financial crisis,” when  Henry Paulson 
and then  Timothy F. Geithner  represented the U.S., said
Loevinger.  “If the vice premiers for finance and international trade
and investment are split as they were during the first term of
the Hu Jintao administration -- which appears likely -- it will
represent a challenge for Secretary Lew as he heads to
Beijing,” Loevinger said. “He is likely to only get one
counterpart to build that critical relationship.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  