-- China’s PBOC, Housing Appointments Most Contested by Legislators
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-16T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/china-s-pboc-housing-appointments-most-contested-by-legislators.html
China ’s nominees for central bank
governor and environment, education and housing ministers drew
the most opposing votes of any appointments, two days after
President Xi Jinping was appointed with one dissenting ballot.  Of 25 minister-level nominees, only those four received
more than 100 “no” votes yesterday from 2,952 delegates at the
National People’s Congress, which approves decisions of the
ruling Communist Party.  The votes reflect the public acrimony sparked by rising
home prices, environmental degradation and school safety that
have led to online criticism of the government and also violent
demonstrations. Pollution surpassed land disputes as the biggest
cause of protests in China, Chen Jiping, a former leading member
of the Communist Party’s Committee of Political and Legislative
Affairs, said this month.  “The housing problem, the state of the environment all
over the country, and frustrations about educating one’s
children must have played roles in the negative voting on the
relevant ministers,” Roderick MacFarquhar, a professor of
government at  Harvard University , said by e-mail.  The NPC appointed  Jiang Weixin  as housing minister with 181
votes against. Environment Minister Zhou Shengxian received 171
opposing votes, compared with 158 for People’s Bank of China
governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  and 135 for Education Minister  Yuan 
Guiren. There were a total of 850 opposing votes for the
environment and resources committee of the NPC.  The opacity of the system makes it hard for outsiders to
discern the cause of an opposing vote, and the decisions may
express opposition to the individual nominee rather than the
government’s policy, Kerry Brown, a former U.K. diplomat and a
professor of China studies at the University of Sydney, said by
phone.  Mao Opposition  Former President  Jiang Zemin  received 35 opposing votes in
1993, according to Hong Kong’s Ming Pao newspaper. Party
Chairman  Mao Zedong  drew one in 1949, the year the Communist
Party took power.  In April 1992, 177 representatives voted against the Three
Gorges Dam project and 644 abstained, according to Yu Keping’s
book “Democracy and Rule of Law in China.”  The legislators “want to show to the public that they are
the people’s deputies and they speak for the people,” said Ding
Xueliang, a professor of Chinese politics at  Hong Kong
University  of Science and Technology. “But they cannot speak
for the most critical complaints.”  Areas such as public security, treatment of the country’s
Tibetan and Uighur minorities and the one-child policy are more
difficult for NPC representatives to oppose, Ding said.  Home Prices  Home prices rose in February for a ninth month, extending a
rebound that began after the central bank cut  interest rates 
last year.  Wen Jiabao , who  Li Keqiang  succeeded as premier March
15, vowed before leaving office that the government’s three year
campaign to rein in the  property market  would continue. Real
estate prices in China rose 160 percent in the 1998-2011 period
after the country privatized the property market, according to
government data.  Wen also ordered the drafting of rules to better protect
children on school buses, which were adopted last year, after a
series of crashes involving vehicles carrying students killed
more than four dozen people from November 2011 to April 2012.  Chinese authorities have also vowed to clean up the
nation’s environment after air pollution levels in Beijing hit
hazardous levels on 20 days in January. The government has
pledged to control coal consumption, ordered higher gasoline
standards and announced plans to support alternative energy.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  