-- Cyprus Says Deposit Levy to Involve Bank-Share Compensation
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-03-16T05:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/cyprus-says-deposit-levy-to-involve-bank-share-compensation.html
Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris said a planned levy on bank accounts in the country to
help shore up its finances will involve compensation for
depositors in the form of shares in the financial institutions.  The Cypriot government decided earlier today to impose a
6.75 percent tax on  bank deposits  as high as 100,000 euros
($130,580) and a 9.9 percent levy on deposits in excess of that
amount in order to win a European aid package.   The measure, due to raise 5.8 billion euros, is designed to
help limit the amount of outside emergency funds for Cyprus to a
maximum of 10 billion euros and keep Cypriot debt sustainable.
The Cypriot government had previously vowed to protect
depositors.     “The exchange of this levy with shares in the banking
institutions affected gives an upside potential,” Sarris told
reporters in Brussels after euro-area finance chiefs reached the
agreement that also includes a planned rise in the Cypriot
corporate tax rate to 12.5 percent from 10 percent.   The euro area had refused to exclude the possibility of
imposing losses on bank-account holders in Cyprus as a way to
prevent its debt from becoming unsustainable while negotiating a
rescue program that has been in the works for nine months. Such
an element isn’t part of existing aid packages for  Greece ,
Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain .  Two weeks ago, at a previous Brussels gathering of euro-
area finance ministers, Sarris said Cyprus would refuse any
demands for depositors in its banks to take losses as part of an
aid accord because such a step would be a “self-inflicted
catastrophe” for the country and the euro area. Today, he said
Cyprus had no other choice.   “It’s not a pleasant outcome, especially of course for the
people involved, but we believe it is something that, compared
with other possible outcomes, is the least onerous,” Sarris
said. “Had we not reached an agreement, there was a serious
threat to the stability of our banking and financial system.”  He called the levy a “once and for all” measure and said
Cyprus would take the domestic steps needed over the next three
days to apply it when Cypriot banks next reopen on March 19.
Sarris also said electronic bank transfers in the meantime would
be covered.  “We believe now, with the certainty introduced by this
agreement, calm and stability will return,” he said.    To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net  