-- Dollar Ends Five-Week Rally as Economy-Fueled Momentum Fades
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-03-16T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/dollar-ends-five-week-rally-as-economy-fueled-momentum-fades.html
The dollar halted a five-week rally
against the euro that was backed by signals of a strengthening
economy, as bullish momentum waned and a report yesterday showed
March consumer sentiment trailed forecasts.  The 17-nation currency gained versus the greenback as
European political chiefs paved the way for a rescue package for
Cyprus, boosting optimism regional debt-crisis issues are being
addressed. The pound rose even as Bank of England Governor
Mervyn King said in a television interview he sees a case for
additional central-bank asset purchases. The Federal Reserve
begins a two-day meeting March 19 as inflation below the central
bank’s target may provide scope to maintain monetary stimulus.  “The market had gotten pretty darn long on the dollar
since mid-January, based on expectation of U.S. outperformance,
rather than risk-on sentiment,” Greg Anderson, New York-based
head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc., said in
a telephone interview. “We had a little bit of a positioning
squeeze and there was a run on those dollar longs.” A long
position is a bet that an asset will increase in value.  The dollar depreciated 0.6 percent this week to $1.3067 per
euro in New York, touching the weakest level since Dec. 10. The
greenback fell 0.8 percent to 95.28 yen. The Japanese currency
increased 0.2 percent to 124.58 per euro.  Winners, Losers  The Australian dollar was the biggest winner among the U.S.
currency’s 16 most-traded counterparts this week while  Brazil ’s
real dropped the most.  The yen gained versus the majority of its major peers after
touching the weakest level against the dollar since August 2009.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe overcame opposition and saw his
nominees to lead the Bank of  Japan  confirmed by lawmakers,
paving the way for expended monetary stimulus to pull Japan out
of 15 years of deflation.  Japan’s currency has been the worst performer this year
among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, depreciating 7.6 percent. The euro
gained 1.5 percent, and the dollar increased 2.5 percent.  Futures traders increased bets that the yen will decline
against the U.S. dollar,  figures  from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the
number of wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators on a
decline in the yen compared with those on an increase -- so-
called net shorts -- was 93,763 on March 12, up from 73,351 the
week before.  Euro Positions  Net-short bets that the euro will fall against the dollar
decreased to 24,787 as of March 12, compared with 26,116 a week
earlier, CFTC figures showed.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel said  Europe  must act to
support Cyprus as euro-area officials sought to overcome
differences on losses for investors and the role of the
International Monetary Fund in a bid to end nine months of
bailout talks. Merkel said while euro countries won’t provide
assistance “under any conditions,” the currency union needed to
prevent Cyprus from lurching toward insolvency.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary U.S.
consumer sentiment index for March fell to 71.8, the lowest
level since December 2011, from 77.6 in February. The gauge was
projected to increase to 78, according to the median estimate of
67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. consumer prices increased 2 percent in the 12 months
ended in February, after a 1.6 percent year-over-year gain the
prior month, a Labor Department report showed yesterday.  Fed View  “Even as economic indicators improve, I expect the Fed to
continue monetary easing and that will weigh on the dollar,”
Kengo Suzuki, a currency strategist at Mizuho Securities Co. in
 Tokyo , said in an interview. “There isn’t inflation concern yet
in the U.S.”  Sales at U.S. retailers rose 1.1 percent in February, the
most in five months and exceeding all projections in a Bloomberg
survey, Commerce Department figures showed on March 13.  “We’re typically getting better dollar data, but we’re not
seeing any follow-through,” Jerry Urwin, director of spot
foreign-exchange in New York at Barclays Plc, said yesterday in
a telephone interview. “This week has been a frustrating week
for the market from a fundamentally based positioning point of
view.”  The pound rose to a one-week high against the dollar as
King said told ITV News March 14 that “markets determine the
level of exchange rate, not us.”  Pound Trading  Sterling has tumbled 3.7 percent against the greenback
since the start of last month. In that time, minutes of the Bank
of England’s February decision showed King and two other policy
makers were defeated in a push for more stimulus and Moody’s
Investors Service cut the U.K.’s top credit rating.  Australia ’s dollar rose against all 16 of its most-traded
counterparts as the statistics bureau said on March 14 the
number of people employed rose by 71,500 in February from the
previous month, when it increased 13,100. That compared with a
10,000 increase estimated by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The Aussie rose 1.7 percent to $1.0409, after climbing to
the strongest level since Feb. 5.  The Mexican peso appreciated versus all but one of its 16
main peers after policy makers led by central-bank Governor
Agustin Carstens said on March 11 that a rate cut made on March
8 “doesn’t represent the start of a cycle,” bolstering
confidence the bank will keep rates on hold.  The peso increased 1.5 percent to 12.4342 per dollar after
reaching its strongest level since September 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  