-- Cyprus Bank Deposits to Be Taxed in $13 Billion Bailout
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-03-16T16:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/euro-area-takes-aim-at-depositors-in-cyprus-bailout.html
Euro-area finance ministers agreed
to an unprecedented tax on Cypriot bank deposits as officials
unveiled a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) rescue plan for the
country, the fifth since  Europe ’s debt crisis broke out in 2009.  Cyprus will impose a levy of 6.75 percent on deposits of
less than 100,000 euros -- the ceiling for European Union
account insurance -- and 9.9 percent above that. The measures
will raise 5.8 billion euros, in addition to the emergency loans, 
Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who leads the group 
of euro-area ministers, told reporters early today after 10 hours 
of talks in Brussels. The International Monetary Fund may 
contribute to the package and junior bondholders may also be tapped
in a so-called bail-in, the ministers' statement said.  Officials have struggled to find an agreement that would
rescue Cyprus, which accounts for just half of a percent of the
euro region’s economy, without unsettling investors in larger
countries and sparking a new round of market contagion. Finance
Minister Michael Sarris said the plan was the “least onerous”
of the options Cyprus faced to stay afloat.  “This decision should not be compared to the ideal, but to
the very real possibility that much more money could have been
lost in a bankruptcy of the banking system or indeed of the
country,” Sarris said in Brussels.  Late Meeting  Policy makers began meeting at 5 p.m. yesterday in a
hastily convened gathering, seeking to overcome differences on
bondholder losses while financial markets were closed.  “Further measures concern the increase of the withholding
tax on capital income, a restructuring and recapitalisation of
banks, an increase of the statutory corporate income tax rate
and a bail-in of junior bondholders,” according to a statement
released by ministers after the talks. It didn’t specify whether
bank or sovereign bond holders could be affected.  The European Central Bank will use its existing facilities
to make funds available to Cypriot banks as needed to counter
potential bank runs. Depositors will receive bank equity as
compensation.  President Nicos Anastasiades called leaders of the
political parties to a meeting at 8:30 p.m. local time today.
The Cypriot parliament will convene tomorrow to vote on
legislation needed for the bailout.  ‘Uncharted Territory’  While the tax on deposits carries some risks of setting a
precedent for other countries in the euro area, the ECB has
shown it’s prepared to do what it takes to preserve the currency
union, said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank
in  London .  “We are optimistic that it will not spark massive
contagion,” Schmieding said in a note. “Still, with the
unprecedented haircut on Cypriot bank deposits we are in
uncharted territory again.”  The tax on deposits, as well as hurting wealthy Russians
with money in Cypriot banks, will also sting ordinary citizens.
Some ATMs in the country ran out of cash, Erotokritos
Chlorakiotis, general manager of the Cooperative Central Bank,
told state-run CYBC.  Funds to pay the levy were frozen in accounts immediately,
ECB Executive Board Member Joerg Asmussen said. The levy will be
assessed before Cypriot banks reopen on March 19 after a March
18 national holiday. Sarris said electronic transfers will also
be limited until then.  ‘Unique Measures’  “As it is a contribution to the financial stability of
Cyprus, it seems just to ask a contribution of all deposit
holders,” Dijsselbloem said, noting the country’s financial
industry was five times the size of its economy. The plan
includes “unique measures” that address the “exceptional
nature” of Cyprus and show “inflexible commitment to financial
stability and the integrity of the euro area.”  The IMF will consider contributing money to the rescue,
said IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde, who travelled to
Brussels for the talks. “We believe that the proposal as
outlined by Jeroen is actually sustainable,” she said.  Euro ministers expect the region’s bailout fund, the
European Stability Mechanism, will approve a bailout proposal
“by the second half of April 2013 and subject to completion of
national procedures.”  Skeptics  Cyprus pledged to step up asset sales and enact budget cuts
amounting to 4.5 percent of gross domestic product. The aid
program, which should be completed by the second half of April,
calls for its debt to be 100 percent of GDP by 2020. The EU
forecasts it at 93 percent this year. The deal calls for the
banking sector to shrink substantially by 2018.  Skeptics including Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker had
said that imposing investor losses in Cyprus risked reigniting
the financial crisis that has so far pushed five of the euro
zone’s 17 members to seek aid. Last year, the euro area took
what officials called a unique step to ask Greek bondholders to
absorb losses.  Asmussen said tapping deposit holders was needed to expand
Cyprus’s tax base. European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner Olli Rehn called the assessment a strictly fiscal
measure. Rehn had warned against so-called haircuts on
depositors to avoid setting a destabilizing precedent.  When asked if a deposit assessment could be ruled out for
future rescues, Rehn said in an interview: “It can and there is
no concrete case where it should be considered.”  ECB Role  “This kind of stability fee is clearly a much better
choice from the point of view of financial stability and Cypriot
citizens than a full-scale bail-in, which would have led to very
chaotic consequences in the Cypriot economy,” he said.  Cypriot banks are on track to regain access to ECB
emergency lending facilities once they have been successfully
recapitalized, Asmussen said. Cyprus is “systemically
relevant” and needs assistance to ensure stability of the euro,
Asmussen told reporters.  The ECB also will be available to euro-area banks that may
need extra liquidity, Asmussen said. Authorities plan to
ringfence Cypriot bank branches in  Greece , through transactions
with Greek banks that won’t require money from Greece’s rescue
funds, he said.  Corporate tax rates in Cyprus will rise to 12.5 percent to
10 percent as part of the deal, Dijsselbloem said. Rehn told
reporters that  Russia , whose banks have loaned as much as $40
billion to Cypriot companies of Russian origin, would ease terms
on its existing loans to Cyprus as the rescue unfolds. Cyprus’s
finance minister is scheduled to fly to Moscow on March 20.  At the talks, the ministers also agreed to give extra time
to Ireland and  Portugal  to repay loans to the European Financial
Stability Facility. The euro group, IMF and ECB will approve the
details of the extensions and the Cyprus deal once technical
details have been ironed out and national parliaments have acted
as needed, the finance ministers said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  