-- Fed’s Fisher Says Too-Big-to-Fail Banks Should Be Shrunk
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-03-16T17:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/fed-s-fisher-says-too-big-to-fail-banks-should-be-shrunk.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the government should break up the
biggest U.S. banks rather than allow them to hold a “too-big-
to-fail” advantage over smaller firms.  The 12 largest financial institutions hold almost 70
percent of the assets in the nation’s banking system and profit
from an unfair implicit guarantee that the government would bail
them out, Fisher said today in a  speech  at the Conservative
Political Action Conference in National Harbor, Maryland. The
biggest banks enjoy a “significant” subsidy, enabling them
“to grow larger and riskier,” he said.  “These institutions operate under a privileged status,”
Fisher said. “They represent not only a threat to financial
stability, but to fair and open competition.”  The biggest banks came under scrutiny yesterday at a Senate
hearing on  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which hid trading losses,
according to a report by the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations. The New York-based firm under Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  lost more than $6.2 billion last year in a
 credit derivatives  bet by Bruno Iksil, known as the London
Whale.  Fisher said in a phone interview with  Bloomberg News  that
his proposal “will not lead to the denial of credit for U.S.
corporations.”  The cost from big banks “far exceeds the benefits,” and
the U.S. doesn’t need “to have the largest banks in the world
to compete,” Fisher said after his speech.  ‘Healthy Banks’  “The point is to have healthy banks,” he said. “The
point is that the taxpayer is not subjected again to the kind of
losses or economic disruptions that they face from having
concentrated institutions.”  Fisher, who will vote next year on the  Federal Open Market
Committee , doesn’t play a direct role at the Fed on national
financial regulation. That responsibility belongs to  Daniel Tarullo , the Fed governor in charge of financial regulation and
bank oversight.  All banks should be subject to a bankruptcy process, Fisher
said in his speech. Customers and creditors of non-bank
affiliates should sign disclosures accepting “that there is no
government guarantee -- ever -- backstopping their investment,”
he said.  “Addressing institutional size is vital to maintaining a
credible threat of failure,” Fisher said. “Without fear of
failure, these banks and their counterparties can take excessive
risks.”  New Essay  The Dallas Fed will release a new essay on too-big-to-fail
banks next week, along with responses to questions and
criticisms it has received about the proposal, Fisher said.  The Dallas Fed chief’s speech echoed his comments in a
March 10 Wall Street Journal  opinion piece  co-written with
Harvey Rosenblum, research director at the reserve bank.  Their plan would cap assets at divisions of the largest
financial firms backed by federal  deposit insurance  at about
$250 billion and wall off  investment banking  from traditional
lending, Rosenblum said an interview this week with Bloomberg
News. That could force JPMorgan and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to
shrink their U.S. consumer and commercial-lending units by more
than half.  JPMorgan shares declined 0.4 percent this week to $50.02,
while financial firms in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced 1.4 percent to the highest level since October 2008.  Push Back  Lobby groups for the largest U.S. banks pushed back on
March 11 against claims the firms remain too big to fail,
rebutting assertions by lawmakers and regulators that they enjoy
a “taxpayer subsidy” because of their size. Legislation known
as Dodd-Frank tightening financial regulation diminished
whatever advantage the biggest lenders held over smaller rivals,
five industry groups wrote in a March 11 brief.  Tarullo, who has worked with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on
revamping the central bank’s risk surveillance and bank
monitoring, has said there’s a case to be made for setting an
“upper bound” to keep the largest banks from getting bigger.  “There is, then, a case to be made for specifying an upper
bound,” Tarullo said in an Oct. 10 speech in Philadelphia.
“With the potentially important consequences of such an upper
bound and of the need to balance different interests and social
goals, it would be most appropriate for Congress to legislate on
the subject.”  Fisher, 63,  joined  the Dallas Fed as its chief in 2005. He
is the only official among the 12 Fed district bank presidents
and seven governors to have run for Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in National Harbor,  Maryland  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  