-- Italian Speakerships Won by Newcomers as Bersani Expands Backing
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/italian-speakerships-won-by-newcomers-as-bersani-expands-backing.html
Italian lawmakers chose political
neophytes for speakers of the Senate and Chamber of Deputies as
the fractured parliament’s top leader, Pier Luigi Bersani,
broadened his support by drawing votes from political rivals.  Pietro Grasso,  Italy ’s top anti-mafia prosecutor and a
first-time senator with Bersani’s Democratic Party, won
speakership of the upper house late yesterday with 137 votes,
more than the combined number of senators in his coalition.
Laura Boldrini, a journalist and former spokeswoman for the UN’s
refugee agency, was selected in the Chamber.  Bersani is appealing to rivals after the four-way general
election last month left the 61-year-old former communist with
control of the Chamber and no clear path to a majority in the
Senate. By passing over longtime allies in favor of the
newcomers, Bersani renewed his push for backing from Beppe
Grillo’s anti-establishment Five Star Movement. Grasso’s new
supporters weren’t revealed as the Senate voted anonymously.  “This is an excellent sign,” Senator Anna Finocchiaro,
the Democratic Party’s chief whip in upper house in the last
parliament, said to reporters after the vote. “I think it could
help with the next decisions that have to be made.”  The speakerships, decided in the new parliament’s second
session after failed votes March 15, are the first step toward
the formation of a government and a replacement for Prime
Minister Mario Monti. The speakers and the heads of each of the
four major parties will begin consultations this week with
President Giorgio Napolitano, who must appoint a premier with a
mandate to assemble majorities in both houses of parliament.  Berlusconi’s Forces  Bersani’s choices for speakership further alienated his
party from three-time Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, who
controls the second-biggest parliamentary force. Berlusconi’s
allies said the results of the speakership votes don’t guarantee
Bersani enough backing for a government and urged him to renew
the broad alliance that brought Monti to power in 2011.  Grasso was elected with 44 percent of the 313 senators who
voted because 59 ballots were turned in blank or without a valid
name. Renato Schifani, a member of Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party and Senate speaker in the last parliament, won 117
votes. Monti’s allies, the fourth-biggest Senate force, had said
they would cast blank ballots. Newswire Ansa reported Five Star,
the No. 3 group, also planned to leave ballots blank.  ‘Little Grillos’  “The ‘Little Grillos’ came to Grasso’s aid, but they might
not show up for Bersani,” Maurizio Gasparri, a senator and
former communication’s minister under Berlusconi, said to
reporters. People of Liberty must be included in a broad
agreement for the next government “or we go back to the ballot
box,” he said.  Senators cast their handwritten ballots one by one in four
rounds of voting that stretched over two full days. The counting
was recorded as Emilio Colombo, the 92-year-old senator-for-life
who oversaw the sessions, read each ballot to the hall
individually.  Yesterday’s Senate vote marked Berlusconi’s return to
parliament after spending a week in a Milan hospital with an eye
ailment. The 76-year-old billionaire, facing verdicts in a tax
fraud appeal and a criminal trial in which he stands accused of
paying for sex with a minor, arrived for the final vote and was
applauded by his allies as he cast his ballot.  The selection of Grasso, a prosecutor, for the leadership
of the Senate expands on the law-enforcement priority that
Bersani stressed in his election campaign, which ran under the
slogan “A Just Italy.” Bersani has said that Berlusconi, who
is also under investigation on suspicion of corrupting
lawmakers, is unfit to serve.  “Justice and change,” Grasso said in a speech to the
Senate after his election. “This is the challenge we have ahead
of us.”  Berlusconi has denied the charges against him and said his
criminal cases are politically motivated. Allies including
Gasparri and People of Liberty General Secretary Angelino Alfano
protested on his behalf on the steps outside of a Milan
courthouse on March 11 as Berlusconi was seeking trial delays
due to his hospitalization. The court approved the delays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  