-- Kenya’s Defeated Candidate Asks Court for New Election
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-16T13:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/kenya-s-defeated-candidate-asks-court-for-new-election.html
Kenya’s defeated presidential
candidate  Raila Odinga  petitioned the nation’s highest court to
overturn Uhuru Kenyatta’s victory in elections and clear the way
for a new vote.  Odinga’s legal team filed papers at the Supreme Court in
the capital, Nairobi, stating that the March 4 election had been
manipulated because turnout exceeded the number of registered
voters at many polling stations and citing evidence of
irregularities in the voter list. The court, led by Chief
Justice Willy Mutunga, has 14 days to rule.  “The multiple failures of the Independent Electoral and
Boundaries Commission in fact reflect failures of so many of our
new institutions,” Odinga said today in an e-mailed statement.
“But the one institution in which all Kenyans still have faith
is our new judiciary.”  Police fired teargas at a crowd of Odinga’s supporters who
had gathered outside the court in the city center. A number of
people sustained “minor injuries” as anti-riot police tried to
disperse the group, broadcaster KTN said.  Kenyatta, the 51-year-old son of  Kenya ’s first post-
independence president, secured a first-round win in the
election with 50.07 percent of votes cast, avoiding a runoff by
less than a 10th of a percentage point. Second-place finisher
Odinga, 68, the departing prime minister, refused to concede,
citing a breakdown in electronic safeguards that he alleges led
to “massive tampering” and a fraudulent election.  International Observers  Observers from the European Union and  African Union , as
well as Kenya’s Elections Observation Group, known as ELOG,
which held a parallel results tally, all said the commission
managed a credible and transparent vote.  “Given the stamp of approval given to the elections by
most international and Kenyan observers, it will be very
difficult for Odinga to prove the elections were faulty,”
Timothy Longman, director of the African Studies Center at
 Boston University , said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Munyori Buku, Kenyatta’s spokesman, didn’t answer three
calls or respond to a message left on his mobile phone today.
Three calls to the mobile phone of Issack Hassan, the chairman
of the IEBC, didn’t connect, while the commission’s spokeswoman
Tabitha Mutemi also wasn’t available when called.  Odinga has been defeated twice before, in 1997 and 2007. In
in the last election, allegations of vote-rigging triggered his
ethnic supporters to attack opponents, who retaliated in
response. More than 1,100 people died and another 350,000 were
displaced from their homes over two months of fighting.  Investor Confidence  Kenyatta and his running mate  William Ruto  are facing trial
at the  International Criminal Court  for organizing the violence
in early 2008. They deny the charges.  This month’s relatively peaceful election spurred investor
confidence. The shilling gained 0.5 percent against the dollar
since election day, while the Nairobi All Share index surged 6
percent.  East Africa ’s largest economy is the regional hub for
companies including Google Inc. and  Visa Inc. (V)   The vote was marred by the failure of electronic
fingerprint-readers to identify voters the day of balloting.
Technical glitches also halted the relay of provisional results
through a secure mobile-phone network to the central tallying
center, where the computer system became overloaded. The
commission then opted for a manual count of hand-delivered
results, causing delays.  A new election must be held within 60 days of the  Supreme
Court  deeming the initial vote as invalid, according to the
constitution.  Increased Scrutiny  “We expect a new election and this time around no monkey
business,” James Orengo, a member of Odinga’s Coalition for
Reform and Democracy, said in a televised interview broadcast by
KTN.  Odinga’s case will increase scrutiny on the seven-seat
Supreme Court, which has heard only a few cases since its
inception in 2011, said George Kegoro, executive director of the
International Commission of Jurists-Kenya.  “This is a big test of the courts because the stakes are
so high,” Kegoro said in a phone interview. “This would show
that no one is so high they can rise above the law.”  Kenyatta’s Jubilee alliance said today it signed an
agreement to form a coalition with nine other political parties.
The signatories included Musalia Mudavadi, who leads the United
Democratic Front and was the third-place candidate in the
presidential election, according to an e-mailed statement today
from the Nairobi-based Presidential Press Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  