-- NAB CEO Says U.K. Unit Profitable With Restructuring on Track
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-03-17T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/nab-ceo-says-u-k-unit-profitable-with-restructuring-on-track.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s
operations in the U.K. are now profitable while Australian
consumer and business confidence remains fragile, Chief
Executive Officer Cameron Clyne said.  Clyne, head of  Australia ’s largest lender by assets, is
trying to revive  earnings  growth after bad debts at the bank’s
U.K. unit last fiscal year led to the first decline in annual
profit since 2009. Investors have supported his view not to take
a “knee-jerk reaction” and sell assets in a “fire sale,”
said Clyne. A sale of the U.K. business had become more viable,
Citigroup Inc. analyst Craig Williams said last month.  “It’s a profitable business now,” Clyne said in an
interview with Australia Broadcasting Corp. yesterday. “It will
be subject to the U.K. economy and what’s going on over there.”  A recession in the U.K., where NAB has owned  Scotland ’s
Clydesdale Bank and the Yorkshire Bank since 1987, forced the
bank on Oct. 31 to increase charges for bad and doubtful debts
from the U.K. unit by 335 million pounds ($531 million) in the
year to September 2012. The bank’s  shares  have risen 86 percent
since the equity market bottomed in March 2009, although it is
the weakest stock performer among the top four Australian banks.  NAB has joined rivals seeking to cut expenses after full-
year profit fell, committing March 13 to cut  annual costs  by
A$800 million ($825 million) within five years.  “We’re doing the right thing, which is actually protecting
shareholder value by running it for the long term, but it’s
going to be a difficult issue for us as long as we’re in the
U.K. and that economy is struggling,” Clyne told ABC TV’s
Inside Business program, according to a transcript.  Consumer Confidence  Private reports in the past month showed Australian
 consumer confidence  rose to the highest level since 2010.
Companies are not so confident. A NAB Business Confidence Index
on March 12 of more than 500 companies fell to a reading of one
from three in the prior month.  NAB’s share price has advanced 25 percent this year,
compared with a 10 percent gain on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index, the benchmark equities gauge.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens and his
board kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at a half-
century low of 3 percent this month. The central bank extended
last month’s pause as prices of key exports including iron ore
recovered from 2012’s lows after  China  boosted infrastructure
spending, and as home prices stabilized.  “Consumer and business confidence remains fragile,” Clyne
said. “There’s obviously been some improvement in sentiment,
and we’ve seen the equity markets rally over the last couple of
months, but confidence is fragile. People are still reluctant to
commit to major investment, be it business credit or housing
finance, and that’s going to continue until we get a more
confident outlook.”  Job Cuts  NAB and competitors have reduced staff and pay to protect
profit.  Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  cut 1,000
jobs in the year to Sept. 30, and this month announced plans to
pare 50 positions in its institutional unit.  Westpac Banking Corp. eliminated more than 500 roles early
last year and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s
biggest lender by market value, said in July it would freeze
base salaries for people making A$150,000 or more in its
institutional banking and markets division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  