-- Office Depot Mexico Sale Talks Said to Extend Beyond Deadline
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-03-17T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/office-depot-mexico-sale-talks-said-to-extend-beyond-deadline.html
Office Depot Inc. (ODP) , the second-
largest office-supply chain, is extending talks to sell its
Mexico unit to  Grupo Gigante SAB (GIGANTE*)  beyond the March 15 deadline,
said a person with direct knowledge of the deal.  The talks were prolonged in part because Office Depot is
already involved in the purchase of  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX)  for $1.17
billion, said the person, who asked not be named because the
conversations are private.  Office Depot spokesman Brian Levine and Jorge Hernandez
Talamantes, an investor relations official with Gigante, didn’t
respond to telephone messages and e-mails sent outside of normal
business hours yesterday seeking comment on the talks.  Office Depot and OfficeMax announced their transaction on
Feb. 20, one day before Gigante made public its offer to buy the
50 percent of Office Depot de  Mexico  it doesn’t already own for
8.78 billion pesos ($706 million). Gigante said in a Feb. 28
filing with the Mexican stock exchange that its offer expired
March 15.  Starboard Value LP , the activist investor that has
pressured Office Depot to improve operations, told the chain in
a letter it should sell the Mexico unit.  “A sale of this asset at a full and fair price is clearly
in the best interest of both Office Depot and OfficeMax
shareholders,” Starboard said in the letter to Office Depot
made public Feb. 27 in a statement.  Office Depot de Mexico includes operations in  Colombia  and
Central America.  Office Depot entered the joint venture with Grupo Gigante
in 1994, and the business has since expanded to more than 200
stores, according to regulatory filings.  For Related News and Information:
Office Depot to Buy OfficeMax for $1.17 Billion in Stock  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  