-- Pakistan’s Parliament Ends Five-Year Term Before May Election
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-03-16T21:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/pakistan-s-parliament-ends-five-year-term-ahead-of-may-election.html
Pakistan ’s parliament ended its
five-year term, as the ruling party and main opposition
negotiate the makeup of a caretaker administration that will run
the country before general elections in May.  Outgoing Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf, who led the
first civilian administration in the nation’s 65-year history to
complete its tenure and prepare to transfer power through a
ballot, greeted the nation on achieving the milestone in his
farewell address on state-run TV yesterday.  “This elected government is in the process of transferring
power in line with the constitution,” he said in the late-night
address. “All doors to seize power by force have been closed.”  Pakistan has been ruled by the army for more than half of
the time since its independence from British rule in 1947.  Ashraf’s  Pakistan Peoples Party  and its main rival, the
Pakistan Muslim League of former premier  Nawaz Sharif , are
seeking to reach consensus on who should be in the interim
cabinet, as mandated by the constitution. The Election
Commission of Pakistan will pick a caretaker premier if they
fail to agree by March 24. Ashraf remains in office until a
replacement is named.  Former finance minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh, who resigned
last month, and a former governor of the central bank, Ishrat Husain, are among five candidates in the running.  The milestone for Pakistani democracy may not bring much
reward for the Peoples Party, which is run by President Asif Ali Zardari. The party garnered half the support of Sharif’s
Pakistan Muslim League in an opinion poll released March 4. Its
popularity has shrunk amid the nation’s worst energy crisis,
inflation above 7 percent, a Taliban insurgency and sectarian
bomb attacks.  The Peoples Party emerged as the largest in the National
Assembly following elections in 2008, two months after its
leader and former Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto  was assassinated
at an election rally in Rawalpindi, just outside the capital,
Islamabad. Zardari, Bhutto’s widower, took over the party’s
reins, forging a short-lived alliance with Sharif.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  