-- Pound Rises Most Since June as King Denies Talking Down Currency
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-03-16T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/pound-rises-most-since-june-as-king-denies-talking-down-currency.html
The pound climbed the most since
June against the dollar this week as Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  said policy makers aren’t trying to talk it down.  Sterling strengthened the most against the euro since the
week ended Feb. 8. “Markets determine the level of  exchange
rate , not us,” King said in an interview with ITV News on March
14, after the pound dropped to a 2 1/2-year low against the
greenback. A gauge of U.K. inflation expectations rose to the
highest in 4 1/2 years amid speculation the government may
change the Bank of England’s remit to reduce the emphasis on
 price stability  in order to boost the ailing economy.  “Given how big the moves down have been in sterling it’s
probably not surprising that we were due a correction,” said
Jonathan Webb, head of foreign-exchange strategy at Jefferies
International Ltd.’s Jefferies Bache unit. “King’s comments
caught the market wrong footed when the  Bank of England  have
been persistently talking about the need for a weaker
currency.”  The pound advanced 1.3 percent in the week to $1.5124 as of
5:03 p.m.  London  time yesterday. It dropped to $1.4832 on March
12, the weakest level since June 2010. Sterling strengthened 0.9
percent to 86.34 pence per euro.  The pound has dropped 5.3 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  A report on March 12 showed U.K. industrial production
unexpectedly fell in January as factory output slumped, fueling
concern Britain will slip into a triple-dip recession.  Gilts Yields  The 10-year gilt yield dropped 13 basis points to 1.94
percent as investors sought the safety of government debt as a
haven from economic uncertainty. The National Institute of
Economic and Social Research estimated that the economy shrank
0.1 percent in the three months through February.  The 1.75 percent security due September 2022 rose 1.06, or
10.60 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 98.39.  The U.K. 10-year break-even rate, an index of inflation
expectations that measures the yield difference between gilts
and index-linked securities rose to 3.37 percent on March 14,
the highest since September 2008.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may announce
changes to the Bank of England’s emphasis on price stability
when he delivers his budget on March 20. The Debt Management
Office will announce its funding plans for the coming year on
the same day.  “There is maybe a chance that they will add in a specific
growth target like the  Federal Reserve , but actually I think it
will be more a change in tone in what the government would like
the Bank of England to achieve,” said Jefferies’ Webb. “The
pound could benefit if the foreign-exchange market is
disappointed that there isn’t a more substantial announcement.”  U.K. government bonds handed investors a loss of 1.1
percent this year through yesterday, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German bunds dropped 0.6 percent and
Treasuries fell 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 