-- Queensland Says Selling A$806 Million Aurizon Stake
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-03-17T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/queensland-says-selling-a-806-million-aurizon-stake.html
Queensland’s state government is
selling half its stake in  Aurizon Holdings Ltd. (AZJ) , Australia’s
biggest transporter of coal by rail, for about A$806 million
($839 million) to pay down debt, the Treasurer said.  The state is selling 200 million shares at A$4.03 each,
Treasurer Tim Nicholls said in an e-mailed statement March 16.
Its holding in Aurizon will fall to 8.9 percent, or 189.2
million shares, from 18.2 percent, when the sale is completed,
he said. UBS AG is offering the shares to investors, the
Australian Financial Review newspaper  reported .  Queensland, Australia’s most indebted state, is aiming to
return its budget to surplus in 2014-15 as Premier  Campbell Newman  attempts to win back its AAA  credit rating . The state has
benefited from cutting its investment in Aurizon as the shares
climbed 58 percent from their November 2010 listing, compared
with a 11 percent advance on the  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51) , the
benchmark equities gauge.  “Now is not a bad time to be raising funds with confidence
coming back with markets having rallied,” Nader Naeimi, the
Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages about $126 billion, said in a
telephone interview March 16. “There might not be a better time
to do it. Presumably they have a got a better use for the money
somewhere else.”  The Brisbane-based company, formerly known as QR National
Ltd., listed on the stock exchange in 2010 in  Australia ’s
second-biggest initial public offering. The stock closed at
A$4.04 in Sydney on March 15.  Debt Repayment  Nicholls said the deal will provide more funds to pay down
debt. The government will receive a 4.1 cents per share dividend
from Aurizon on the shares that have been sold, which is payable
on March 27. Proceeds from the sale are anticipated to be
received on March 21. Mark Hairsine, a spokesman for Aurizon,
didn’t respond to a voice mail message left on his mobile phone.  “The A$806 million sale represents a gain of around A$300
million to Queensland’s bottom line since the IPO,” said
Nicholls. “While the government will continue to review its
residual 8.9 percent holding in Aurizon, we have no current
intention to sell additional shares in the near term.”  Queensland lost its top credit rating in 2009 after the
then Labor state government spent A$54 billion to fix ailing
infrastructure. Liberal party leader Newman, who won power at an
election last March, has cut jobs and services to curb spending
that he said risked turning Queensland into an Australian
version of  Spain .  Economic Growth  Resource-rich Queensland depends on mining to drive growth
in the state, which accounts for about one-fifth of Australia’s
A$1.4 trillion economy and is the third-biggest state by
population.  The northeastern state suffered flooding in January for the
second time in about two years. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia
said Feb. 8 that the inundation “is having a noticeable impact
on the transport of coal to ports, but at this early stage it
appears that the effect on exports will be much less than was
the case in 2011.”  The government sold a stake in Aurizon worth about A$500
million in October, the Financial review reported.  Aurizon signed a pact March 11 with GVK Group, an Indian
developer of a $10 billion  coal mine  in Australia part-owned by
billionaire  Gina Rinehart , to jointly develop a rail line and
port in Queensland. The two parties will update the market when
they execute final agreements on all terms of the proposal,
according to a statement.  Sydney-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst  Scott Carroll 
upgraded Aurizon shares to overweight on March 15, citing
attractive long-term earnings growth with cost savings and
higher revenue from coal.  Aurizon shares have climbed 8 percent this year, compared
with a 10 percent advance on the S&P/ASX 200 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  