-- Queensland Selling A$806 Million Aurizon Stake, AFR Says
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-03-16T01:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/queensland-selling-a-806-million-aurizon-stake-afr-says.html
Queensland’s state government is
selling half its stake in  Aurizon Holdings Ltd. (AZJ) ,  Australia ’s
biggest transporter of coal by rail, for about A$806 million
($839 million), the Australian Financial Review  reported .  UBS AG is offering the shares at A$4.03 each, the newspaper
said without revealing where it got the information. The stake
represents 9 percent of Aurizon, the report said. The Brisbane-
based company, formerly known as QR National Ltd., listed on the
stock exchange in 2010 in Australia’s second-biggest initial
public offering. The stock closed at A$4.04 yesterday in Sydney.  Queensland, Australia’s most indebted state, is aiming to
return its budget to surplus in 2014-15 as Premier  Campbell Newman  attempts to win back its AAA credit rating. Queensland
has benefited from cutting its investment in Aurizon as the
shares climbed 58 percent from their November 2010 listing,
compared with a 11 percent advance on the  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51) , the
benchmark equities gauge.  “Now is not a bad time to be raising funds with confidence
coming back with markets having rallied,” Nader Naeimi, the
Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages about $126 billion, said in a
phone interview today. “There might not be a better time to do
it. Presumably they have a got a better use for the money
somewhere else.”  The government sold a stake in Aurizon worth about A$500
million in October, reducing its 34 percent stake in the
previously state-run company, the newspaper reported. Mark Hairsine, a spokesman for Aurizon, and Edmund Burke, a
Queensland government spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
voicemails left on their mobile phones.  Credit Rating  Queensland lost its top  credit rating  in 2009 after the
then Labor state government spent A$54 billion to fix ailing
infrastructure. Liberal party leader Newman, who won power at an
election last March, has cut jobs and services to curb spending
that he said risked turning Queensland into an Australian
version of  Spain . Resource-rich Queensland depends on higher
commodity prices to drive growth in the state, which accounts
for about one-fifth of the Australia’s A$1.4 trillion economy
and is the third-biggest state by population.  January Floods  The northeastern state suffered flooding in January for the
second time in about two years. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia
said Feb. 8 that the inundation “is having a noticeable impact
on the transport of coal to ports, but at this early stage it
appears that the effect on exports will be much less than was
the case in 2011.”  Aurizon signed a pact March 11 with GVK Group, an Indian
developer of a $10 billion  coal mine  in Australia part-owned by
billionaire  Gina Rinehart , to jointly develop a rail line and
port in Queensland state. The two parties will update the market
when they execute final agreements on all terms of the proposal,
according to a statement.  Sydney-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst  Scott Carroll 
upgraded Aurizon shares to “overweight” yesterday, citing
attractive long-term earnings growth with cost savings and
higher revenue from coal.  Aurizon shares climbed 8 percent this year, compared with a
10 percent advance on the S&P/ASX 200 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  