-- SAC's Record Settlement Is No All Clear for Founder Cohen
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-03-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/sac-s-record-settlement-is-no-all-clear-for-founder-cohen.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP’s record
settlement of insider-trading claims doesn’t mean regulators or
federal prosecutors have abandoned their pursuit of founder
 Steven A. Cohen .  The firm said yesterday it agreed to pay $616 million to
settle insider-trading claims against two of its units by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The payment is the
largest ever in an insider-trading case, according to the SEC.  Settlement of the civil allegations doesn’t preclude the
SEC from pursuing Cohen in the future, George Canellos, the
agency’s acting enforcement director, said on a conference call
with reporters. The agency’s investigation of the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based firm continues, as does a criminal case
against former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma.  “These settlements against the named corporate defendant
don’t affect the liability of other persons for the trading at
issue in the complaint, nor the liability of the defendants for
other actions,” Canellos said on the call.  Cohen was linked in November to alleged illegal trades done
by Martoma in a case that U.S. prosecutors described as the
most-lucrative  insider-trading  scheme they’ve ever uncovered,
with profits and averted losses of $276 million. SAC manages $15
billion, 60 percent of which is Cohen’s and his employees’
money. Cohen hasn’t been sued personally by the SEC or charged
with a crime.  Boesky, Milken  “ Steve Cohen  has not been charged with any wrongdoing and
has done nothing,” said Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for
the company.  SAC is paying almost four times the $156 million Galleon
Group LLC founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who is serving 11 years in
prison for insider trading, paid in civil and criminal fines in
2011. Stock-market arbitrager  Ivan Boesky , who pleaded guilty to
conspiracy in 1987, paid $100 million and was sentenced to three
years in prison.  Michael Milken , the former junk bond financier who pleaded
guilty to  securities fraud , paid more than $1.1 billion in
criminal and civil fines as part of his March 1991 settlement
with the Justice Department and SEC. In 1990, Milken was
sentenced to 10 years in prison. His term was later reduced to
two years.  SAC and its affiliates settled the SEC’s claims without
admitting or denying wrongdoing. SAC unit  CR Intrinsic Investors 
LLC agreed to pay almost $602 million and Sigma Capital will
forfeit about $14 million, the SEC said. They settled for a
penalty about equal to the disgorgement amount.  “The historic monetary sanctions against CR Intrinsic and
its affiliates are sharp warning that the SEC will hold hedge
fund advisory firms and their funds accountable when employees
break the law to benefit the firm,” Canellos said in a
statement.  ‘Substantial Step’  The settlement “is a substantial step toward resolving all
outstanding regulatory matters and allows the firm to move
forward with confidence,” SAC spokesman Gasthalter said. “We
are committed to continuing to maintain a first-rate compliance
effort woven into the fabric of the firm.”  The SEC’s allegations against CR Intrinsic relate to a
November lawsuit against Martoma, who allegedly placed trades
ahead of an announcement involving a clinical trial of an
Alzheimer’s drug being jointly developed by two pharmaceutical
companies. Martoma has pleaded not guilty.  “There is no way of predicting what they intend to do,”
said  Jacob Frenkel , a former SEC enforcement lawyer who is now a
partner at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA in Potomac,
 Maryland . “When the agency is so obviously pursuing someone,
and when we do not know what cooperators are saying, there are
just too many unknowns.”  ‘Business Decision’  The SEC told SAC in November that it was considering
pursuing civil claims, citing fraud and control-person liability
over its management of CR Intrinsic.  “SAC’s business decision to settle with the SEC in no way
changes the fact that Mathew Martoma is an innocent man,”
 Charles Stillman , a lawyer for Martoma at Stillman & Friedman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “We will never give up our fight
for his vindication.”  SAC will pay the entire settlement expenses, according to a
person familiar with the firm who asked not to be named because
the information is private. SAC has said it would indemnify
clients against disgorgement of illegal profits and legal fees.  The government’s multiyear investigation has linked at
least eight current or former SAC employees to allegations of
insider trading while working at the hedge fund.  Client Redemptions  The SEC, in an amended complaint yesterday relating to SAC
unit Sigma Capital Management, said former analyst Jon Horvath
passed inside information to two unidentified fund managers at
SAC earning it more than $6.4 million in profits and avoided
losses. Previously, the agency had said only one SAC employee
received tips from Horvath, who fought insider trading charges
filed by the  Justice Department  until September, when he pleaded
guilty a month before trial and agreed to cooperate.  SAC clients last month asked to pull $1.68 billion from the
firm, or 27 percent of outside capital, a person with knowledge
of the matter said at the time. About $660 million is set to
leave at the end of this month, the person said.  SAC in February reached a deal with Blackstone Group LP
that gives all clients three more months to decide whether to
stay in the fund. Blackstone, one of the biggest investors in
SAC, with about $550 million in the fund, will leave most of the
money in place for at least another quarter under the new
liquidity agreement, it said in a Feb. 14 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  