-- Shiffrin Overtakes Maze to Win Women’s World Cup Slalom Title
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-16T15:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/shiffrin-overtakes-maze-to-win-women-s-world-cup-slalom-title.html
Mikaela Shiffrin of the U.S.
overtook  Tina Maze  on her second run to win the women’s World
Cup skiing slalom title in today’s final race of the season.  Shiffrin, who turned 18 three days ago, trailed overall
World Cup champion Maze of Slovenia by 1.17 seconds after the
first run in Lenzerheide,  Switzerland . The American then posted
the fastest second-run time of 56.76 seconds to claim her fourth
World Cup win of the season.  Austria ’s Bernadette Schild was second, 0.20 seconds
behind. Maze’s second-run time of 58.28 seconds dropped her to
third, 0.35 seconds back.  “Winning the slalom title was my goal from the beginning
of this year,” Shiffrin, who won the slalom at last month’s
world championships, said on the U.S. Ski Team’s website. “The
world championships title was amazing, but it wasn’t a goal that
I had set. This was what I was really shooting for all season,
to be consistently one of the top slalom skiers. So this means a
lot to me.”  Shiffrin is the first  World Cup  slalom champion from the
U.S. since Tamara McKinney in 1983-84.  American Ted Ligety won the final men’s giant slalom in
Lenzerheide for his sixth victory of the season.  Ligety, who clinched his fourth giant slalom title last
week in Slovenia, joins Sweden’s Ingemar Stenmark as the only
men to win six or more World Cup races in the discipline in a
season. The American’s eight top-three finishes this season are
the most in 31 years, according to the U.S. Ski Team.  Men’s overall champion Marcel Hirscher of Austria finished
0.37 seconds behind in second, with France’s Alexis Pinturault
third.  The World Cup season concludes tomorrow in Lenzerheide with
the men’s slalom and women’s giant slalom. Hirscher and Maze
have already won the titles in the events.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 