-- ST-Ericsson Said to Plan Strategy Update for Workers Monday
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d ,   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-03-17T13:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/st-ericsson-said-to-summon-workers-for-strategy-update-next-week.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  and  Ericsson
AB (ERICB) , having failed to find a buyer for ST-Ericsson, have summoned
employees at the unprofitable chip venture for a strategy update
tomorrow following a March 15 board meeting, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  ST-Ericsson’s  worker  representatives in France and  Italy 
have been invited to conference calls scheduled for early
tomorrow, said the people, asking not to be identified because
the plans are private. In France, companies are required by law
to inform works councils of decisions that could affect jobs
early in the process of any restructuring.  STMicroelectronics and Ericsson are considering winding
down the 50-50 partnership, which designs chips used in mobile
phones, after a three-month search for a buyer failed to produce
results, people familiar with the matter said last week.
Ericsson could take back a research site in Lund,  Sweden , while
STMicroelectronics could integrate a site in Grenoble, France,
the people have said.  ST-Ericsson’s other French sites, in  Le Mans  and Rennes,
could also be integrated with Geneva-based STMicroelectronics,
while Ericsson may take on some modem assets in Germany and
Finland, another person said. ST-Ericsson, whose chief executive
officer Didier Lamouche quit last week, will probably ask Chief
Operating Officer Carlo Ferro to oversee any changes, the person
said.  Alexis Breton, a spokesman for STMicroelectronics in Paris,
and Ola Rembe, an Ericsson spokesman in  Stockholm , declined to
comment.  Moody’s Outlook  Reintegrating workers into the parent companies would help
avoid job cuts at ST-Ericsson, which employs 5,000 people, as
some European governments, especially Socialist President
Francois Hollande-led  France , are against firings.  Such a move, however, may weigh on the parent companies’
finances. Moody’s Investors Service on March 15 changed its
outlook of STMicroelectronics’s debt to negative from stable,
citing concern about a drag on profitability by ST-Ericsson.  “Uncertainty remains around the structure and the cost of
the final exit and whether ST will exit only part of the
business or overtake some of ST-Ericsson’s current employees or
facilities, which could further depress group margins,” Moody’s
said in a statement, while confirming STMicroelectronics’s Baa2
rating.  Shares of STMicroelectronics have gained 9.6 percent this
year in Paris trading. The stock fell 4.4 percent on March 12
after Bloomberg reported that ST-Ericsson failed to find a
buyer. Ericsson has jumped 31 percent in Stockholm this year.  STMicroelectronics and Ericsson have said they want to
complete an exit from the partnership, which has accumulated
$2.7 billion in net losses since it started in 2009, in the
third quarter. ST-Ericsson has struggled to introduce higher-
powered chipsets and platforms as the low-end handset business
at customer  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  shrank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  