-- Suntech Said to Get Default Notice on $541 Million Unpaid Bonds
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-03-16T23:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/suntech-said-to-get-default-notice-on-541-million-unpaid-bonds.html
The trustee administering $541
million in bonds from  Suntech Power Holdings Co. Ltd. (STP)  sent the
solar company a notice of default yesterday as the deadline to
redeem the notes passed, a person familiar with the matter said.  The move allows bondholders to sue the Chinese company in
U.S. courts, according to the person, who asked not to be named
because the information hasn’t become public. A default would be
the first by a mainland Chinese company. Suntech said holders of
63 percent of the bonds agreed to delay exercising their rights
for two months until May 15.  “We believe it is in the best interests of all of our
bondholders to come to a consensual restructuring and encourage
bondholders that are not signatory to the agreement to join this
process,” Suntech said in a statement released by its public
relations adviser Weber Shandwick in Shanghai.  The default notice brings Suntech a step closer to court
intervention in its efforts to renegotiate payments on the
bonds, which were issued in 2007 and matured on March 15.
Suntech is “likely” to enter bankruptcy, Aaron Chew, an
analyst at Maxim Group LLP in New York, said in a March 14 note.  Bankruptcy may wipe out Suntech’s shareholders, including
founder Shi Zhengrong, who was ousted as chairman this week and
still controls about 30 percent of the company.  Suntech, based in Wuxi outside Shanghai, said on March 14
that it had no plans to make the final payment in time for the
deadline. It hasn’t reported a  profit  since the first quarter of
2011 after a slump in the cost of solar cells gutted margins.  ‘Organizing’  Since July, Suntech has hired UBS AG to restructure its
debt and downgraded its outlook for sales. While the company
announced on March 11 that a majority of its bondholders are
willing to wait for repayment, some that weren’t involved in the
so-called forbearance agreement are threatening to sue.  “A group of bondholders is presently organizing and is
preparing to take action,” James Millar, a partner working on
bankruptcy at the law firm WilmerHale in New York, said on March
15. He expects to represent several Suntech bondholders. “Each
bondholder has a right to bring an action to collect all
principal and interest that remains unpaid.”  Support from 25 percent of the bondholders may be needed to
take action against Suntech, according to a prospectus for the
notes  filed  with the Securities and Exchange Commission in June
2008. Wilmington Trust is acting as trustee for the bonds and
has the authority to declare whether the bonds are in default.
Officials at the trust had no immediate comment.  Grace Period  Millar said holders don’t need to meet the 25 percent
threshold before pursuing their rights to be repaid.  “Holders of a majority in aggregate principle amount of
the outstanding notes will have the right to direct the time,
method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy
available,” according to the prospectus. It also says “no
holder will have any right to institute any proceeding” unless
at least 25 percent of the principle holders make a written
request to the trustee of the bonds.  The document also says 60 days must elapse after the
written notice before holders have rights to “institute any
proceeding.”  The bondholders have an “absolute right” to be repaid the
principal when the bonds mature, Adam Cohen, the founder of
Covenant Review, a research firm in New York, said on March 13.
“It doesn’t matter that a majority or 60 percent wants to wait
60 days.”  Trondheim Capital Partners LP, a distressed-debt hedge
fund, owns enough of the Suntech bonds “to make it worthwhile
to file a petition to sue if they don’t pay us,” Colin
Peterson, the Scottsdale, Arizona-based company’s managing
director, said March 13. Suntech didn’t contact Trondheim before
announcing the forbearance agreement, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  