-- Wales Routs England for Second Straight Six Nations Title
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-16T22:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/wales-routs-england-for-second-straight-six-nations-rugby-title.html
Wales  routed  England  30-3 to win
its second consecutive Six Nations rugby championship.  Alex Cuthbert scored the only two tries of the game at
Millennium Stadium in Cardiff today as Wales dominated the
second half by outscoring England 21-0. Leigh Halfpenny kicked
12 points and Daniel Biggar added eight points, including a drop
goal, as Wales became the first back-to-back champion since
France in 2006-07.  Wales won the title because of a better points-difference
over England in the standings after both teams finished with
four wins. England’s first loss denied it the so-called Grand
Slam sweep of five victories in the tournament.  “We know what we can do and have been ready since
Monday,” Wales flanker Justin Tipuric told the British
Broadcasting Corp. “To turn up Saturday with such a great
performance, we are chuffed to bits.”  Wales won its final four games following an opening 30-22
home loss to Ireland.  Wales took an early 6-0 lead on a pair of Halfpenny
penalties. England got on the scoreboard in the 20th minute as
Owen Farrell, who sat out last week’s win over  Italy  with a
thigh injury, kicked a penalty.  Halfpenny restored Wales’s six-point advantage with another
penalty, while Farrell was wide with his attempt moments later.
Wales’s  George North  then intercepted a pass and was denied a
try by  Mike Brown ’s tap-tackle near the midway line. Biggar then
missed a drop-goal attempt just before halftime.  Fourth Penalty  After Halfpenny kicked his fourth penalty early in the
second half to make it 12-3, Wales broke the game open.  Cuthbert shook off a tackle from Brown to score a try in
the 57th minute and Biggar added his drop goal. Cuthbert touched
down again in the right corner in the 66th minute, with Biggar
converting. Biggar then closed the scoring run with a penalty to
make it 30-3.  “We got in at halftime and thought we were going okay,
although we didn’t have the execution right,” England coach
 Stuart Lancaster  told the  BBC . “But the first quarter of the
second half wasn’t good enough and Wales thoroughly deserved the
win, no complaints”  Pre-tournament favorite France beat third-place Scotland
23-16 in Paris but still finished last in the standings. Italy
finished in fourth place by securing its first Six Nations win
over Ireland with a 22-15 victory in Rome.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 