-- Who’s Who in China’s New Government Leadership Lineup
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-16T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/who-s-who-in-china-s-new-government-leadership-lineup.html
China ’s National People’s Congress
selected vice premiers and ministers yesterday after naming Xi
Jinping president and  Li Keqiang  the nation’s premier.  Vice Premiers:  Zhang Gaoli, 66, Vice Premier. Zhang, a member of the
seven-man elite Politburo Standing Committee, started his career
in the oil industry in southern China in the 1970s, taking the
top post in the city of Shenzhen in 1997. He’s been moving north
ever since, becoming Communist Party Secretary of coastal
Shandong Province in 2002 and the top official in Tianjin
municipality in 2007. While in Tianjin, he oversaw a surge in
infrastructure spending centered on a new financial district
modeled on  Manhattan . The infrastructure spending was backed by
borrowing, and the city’s state-owned construction companies are
among the most indebted in the country.  Liu Yandong, 67, Vice Premier.  Liu is one of two women on
the 25-member Politburo. Liu advanced through the ranks of the
Communist Party’s Youth League in the 1980s under former
President  Hu Jintao ’s leadership. Liu doesn’t have experience in
running provinces or municipalities. From 1991 to 2007 she
served in the party’s United Front Work Department, the
organization that manages the party’s ties with  Hong Kong  and
ethnic minorities including Tibetans. She became the
organization’s minister in 2002. She was named a state councilor
in China’s cabinet in 2008, overseeing areas such as culture and
education. She is the daughter of a former vice minister of
agriculture.  Wang Yang, 58, Vice Premier. Until last year, Wang was
Communist Party secretary of Guangdong, the province with the
largest population and biggest economy in China and one of the
world’s manufacturing hubs. He gained recognition promoting a
model of growth which sought to move Guangdong up the
manufacturing value chain. He also won plaudits for his handling
of an uprising in the fishing town of Wukan in late 2011. Local
officials who had backed a property developer in a land dispute
were ousted and residents were allowed to elect new council
members. After time in the Communist Youth League, he took over
the Chongqing party secretary post in 2005. Wang became a
Politburo member in 2007.  Ma Kai, 66, Vice Premier. Ma rose through the ranks of
China’s planning apparatus to become head of the  National
Development and Reform Commission  in 2003. In 2008 he was
promoted to the rank of State Councilor overseeing the planning
ministries. Yesterday he was appointed one of the top officials
in charge of running the world’s  second-biggest economy . Born in
Shanghai, Ma studied political economy at People’s University in
Beijing.  Government Ministers, other top officials:  Yang Jiechi , 62, State Councilor. Yang’s experience serving
as China’s foreign minister since 2008 puts him in line to
become the direct counterpart to U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  at annual strategic talks between the countries. Yang
studied at the  London School  of Economics in the 1970’s and
served as a Foreign Ministry translator, including for former
President  George H.W. Bush  when he was the top U.S. official in
Beijing in the mid-1970s. Yang was ambassador to the U.S. during
President  George W. Bush ’s first term.  Wang Yi, 59, China’s new foreign minister. Wang is a career
diplomat and Japanese speaker who served as ambassador to Japan
in 2004 to 2007 and then as China’s top diplomat for six-party
talks on North Korea’s nuclear program. Since 2008, Wang has
served as the director of the Taiwan Affairs Office of China’s
cabinet, overseeing talks and ties between the mainland and the
island.  Lou Jiwei , 62, China’s new finance minister. Lou has led
China’s $482 billion sovereign wealth fund, China Investment
Corp., since 2007. Since 2008, he’s been chairman of Central
Huijin Investment Ltd., which controls the government stakes in
banks, including Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. A
graduate of Beijing’s  Tsinghua University , Lou was vice governor
of southwestern China’s Guizhou Province from 1995 to 1998
before joining the  Finance Ministry , where he served as vice
finance minister until 2007. Lou, a smoker, has been known for
speaking to reporters during his cigarette breaks at
conferences. He’s also made public judgments about the quality
of global assets, including  U.S. debt . Lou said in January that
as the  U.S. economy  recovered, rising U.S. interests rates were
“only a matter of time.”  Xu Shaoshi, 61, Chairman of the National Development and
Reform Commission. Xu moves from his post atop the Ministry of
Land and Resources. The NDRC is a remnant of China’s planned
economy and formulates economic policies as well as approving
construction projects. Born in eastern China, Xu was sent out to
the countryside in northeast Jilin Province during the Cultural
Revolution. He began his career at the Ministry of Geology and
 Mineral Resources . In 1993 he moved to the General Office of the
State Council, the country’s highest state organ, becoming
deputy secretary general in 2000.  Gao Hucheng, 61, Minister of Commerce. He previously served
as vice commerce minister and China’s international trade
representative. Gao studied in Paris and Zaire, later  Democratic
Republic  of Congo, and worked at the Chinese embassy there in
the late 1980’s. Gao was appointed vice minister of commerce in
2003. He accompanied President Xi Jinping to  Washington  last
year, announcing a trade promotion effort that included a drive
to purchase $26 billion in U.S. goods.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  