-- Zimbabwe Set to Endorse Constitution as Focus Shifts
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-03-16T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-16/zimbabwe-set-to-endorse-constitution-as-focus-shifts.html
Zimbabweans are set to endorse a
new constitution after political rivals  Robert Mugabe  and  Morgan Tsvangirai  campaigned for a yes vote, paving the way for
elections to take place later this year.  The  Zimbabwe  Electoral Commission began counting ballots
from yesterday’s constitutional referendum, with final results
expected within five days. The vote is a pre-requisite for
presidential elections to proceed in line with an agreement
brokered by the 15-nation  Southern African Development Community 
following disputed polls in 2008 that international observers
said were marred by violence.  “The yes vote is going to carry the day because the
constitution reflects on the values and gains of Zimbabwe since
independence,” Charity Manyeruke, a political science lecturer
at the University of Zimbabwe, said in a phone interview.  The new constitution restricts the president to two five-
year terms and requires a two-thirds vote by members of
parliament to approve a state of emergency. It also guarantees
Zimbabweans freedom from torture or degrading treatment and bans
detention without trial, while security forces are barred from
being members of a political party or group.  Mugabe, 89, who’s ruled the southern African nation since
independence from the U.K. 33 years ago, isn’t barred from
contesting elections as the presidential  term limits  aren’t
retroactive. Western nations and international human-rights
groups have accused Mugabe of rigging elections since 2000 and
brutalizing his opponents to cling to power.  Coalition Government  “We shall not brook with anyone who interferes in our
country and those who want to encroach in our country,” Mugabe
said yesterday after voting at Mhofu primary school in
Highfield, a suburb in the capital, Harare. “We have a right to
defend ourselves. We shall not brook with those people who want
to steal our country, our natural resources, minerals.”  Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front
and the Movement for Democratic Change, led by Tsvangirai, 61,
have shared power in a coalition government since 2009.  The National Constitutional Assembly, a pro-democracy
group, has urged voters to reject the charter, saying it still
concentrates too much power in the presidency. The MDC said
there were some instances of violence against its members
yesterday, including nine supporters assaulted in Mbare, a
township in Harare, for putting up posters.  Mugabe’s program of land seizures from white farmers in
2000 plunged the economy into a decade-long recession, slashing
exports of tobacco, once Zimbabwe’s biggest export, and turning
the country into an importer of its staple food, corn.  Mining Deposits  Since then, he has targeted mining companies in a nation
that holds the world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome
deposits after  South Africa  and also has reserves of coal,
diamonds and gold. The government is forcing Johannesburg-based
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  to cede 51 percent of its unit,
 Zimplats Holdings Ltd. (ZIM) , to the state and black Zimbabweans under
an indigenization law passed in 2007.  Provisions on land ownership in the new constitution mean
white-run commercial farms won’t be returned to their former
owners.  “I voted for a yes to support what is taking place in our
country and for the future of our country,” Ngonidzashe Mahove,
a 33-year-old security guard, said in an interview yesterday at
a voting station in Mbare. “This is a momentous occasion for
myself and the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  