-- T-Mobile Enlists Shakira as It Introduces New Global Plan
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-10-10T20:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/t-mobile-enlists-shakira-as-it-introduces-new-data-plan.html
T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  was first to let
customers buy smartphones on an installment plan, then offered a
widely copied upgrade program called Jump. Now it aims to shake
up the industry a third time with an unlimited international
data service that’s backed by pop singer Shakira.  The package, called Simple Global, is a free feature to
subscribers on its main plan that gives Internet access and
ability to send texts in more than 100 countries at no
additional cost, the company said in a statement yesterday. The
U.S. wireless carrier unveiled the plan at an event in New York
featuring a concert performance by Shakira, who is partnering
with the company under the title of “T-Mobile collaborator.”  The global roaming service is the latest effort by the
Bellevue, Washington-based company to challenge the wireless
industry business and brand itself as the “un-carrier.” T-Mobile broke from the widely used long-term contract model in
March when it introduced an installment purchase plan for
smartphones as an alternative to subsidizing devices in return
for customer loyalty.  “Today’s phones are designed to work around the world, but
we’re forced to pay insanely inflated international connectivity
fees to actually use them,” Chief Executive Officer John Legere
said in the statement.  T-Mobile’s stock rose 2.4 percent to $25.97 at the close in
New York. The shares have gained 31 percent this year.  The carrier’s pay plan and early-upgrade programs have been
replicated by rivals including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless.
Under the new plan, which takes effect Oct. 31, international
calls will cost 20 cents a minute.  Unconventional Approach  As the smallest of the top four carriers, T-Mobile has used
unconventional sales approaches and cheaper service plans to
attack Verizon Wireless and AT&T, which together control two-thirds of the U.S. market. Legere, known for his pink T-shirts
and profanity-laced public performances, flared tensions with
AT&T at the  Consumer Electronics Show  in January when he called
the carrier’s network “crap.”  ‘I don’t care if the others copy us,’’ Legere said in an
interview yesterday, regarding the new data plan. “If AT&T and
Verizon tried this it would be a negative hit to their
profitability.”  T-Mobile’s “un-carrier” campaign, together with an
interest-free phone financing plan and the addition of Apple
Inc.’s iPhone in April, helped the carrier end a three-year
customer losing streak this year. In the second quarter ended in
June, T-Mobile added 678,000 monthly subscribers, surpassing the
551,000 for Dallas-based AT&T.  ‘Meaningfully Cheaper’  Last year, T-Mobile lost 2.1 million subscribers, and
Legere originally predicted in January that it would take until
2014 to end the defections.  “T-Mobile is meaningfully cheaper than its competitors,
and they have found a compelling way to communicate that
advantage,” Craig Moffett, an analyst with MoffettNathanson
LLC, wrote in a note last week.  The carrier, which is controlled by  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,
also said yesterday that its network upgrade to a more speedy
service using long-term evolution technology has been extended
to cover more than 200 million people in 233 cities and towns.  Verizon Wireless, which was the first carrier to start LTE
service in 2010, has coverage in more than 500 markets. AT&T
operates LTE networks in 437 cities and towns, it said in an e-mail.  Sprint Corp. (S) , the third-biggest carrier, has been playing
catchup on LTE and has the service in 187 markets.  T-Mobile also introduced a discounted service for users in
the U.S. making calls and sending text messages to the countries
covered in its Simple Global plan. Customers pay a maximum of 20
cents a minute to make calls and the service is available for
$10 a month, the carrier said.  Sharing Music  Music star and Grammy winner Shakira will help with T-Mobile’s marketing campaign under a multi-year partnership
agreement, the company said.  “Today is all about bringing the world closer together,”
Shakira said in the statement. “I’m excited to partner with T-Mobile and look forward to being able to share my music in new
and innovative ways.”  Enlisting Shakira mirrors the strategy of BlackBerry Ltd.,
which hired singer Alicia Keys as its global creative director,
a new title. The move failed to stoke demand for BlackBerry’s
new lineup of phones, prompting the company to write down its
unsold inventory by almost $1 billion last quarter.  As part of the agreement, T-Mobile said it will support
Shakira’s future music releases and host special “fan
engagement activities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  