-- Accused Silk Road Operator Ordered to N.Y. for Hearing
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-10-09T17:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/accused-silk-road-operator-ordered-to-n-y-for-bail-hearing-1-.html
Ross William Ulbricht, who is charged
with running a billion-dollar online bazaar that sold heroin,
hacking services and phony passports, will be transported to  New
York  for a bail hearing, a federal judge ordered.  Ulbricht, 29, today made his third appearance in federal
court in  San Francisco  after being arrested Oct. 1 by federal
agents at a public library. After Ulbricht waived his right to
bail and an identity hearing, U.S. Magistrate Judge Joseph Spero
said he would be sent to federal court in  Manhattan  to face
charges. Ulbricht will seek bail there, Brandon LeBlanc, his
public defender, told the judge.  “Another attorney will represent him in New York,”
LeBlanc said after the hearing. He declined to comment on
whether Ulbricht has hired his own lawyer.  Prosecutors say Ulbricht ran a marketplace for contraband
on his “Silk Road” website and was known as “Dread Pirate
Roberts,” after a character in the 1987 film “The Princess
Bride.” LeBlanc said Oct. 4 that his client denied all the
charges.  Illicit Sales  Federal agents seized Silk Road, along with $3.6 million in
Bitcoin digital currency, and shut down the site Oct. 2.
Prosecutors said in court filings in Manhattan that the site
generated more than a billion dollars in illicit sales and took
in $80 million in commissions in less than three years. The
prosecutors called Silk Road “the most sophisticated and
extensive criminal marketplace on the Internet.”  Ulbricht is charged with narcotics-trafficking conspiracy,
computer-hacking conspiracy and money-laundering conspiracy. The
narcotics count carries a maximum sentence of life in prison and
a $1 million fine.  Ulbricht, who graduated with a physics degree from the
 University of Texas  in 2006, told Spero at an Oct. 2 hearing
that he couldn’t afford an attorney.  Separately, a federal grand jury in Maryland indicted
Ulbricht on charges of trying to arrange the murder of an
employee who he feared would become a witness against him.  At least a half-dozen federal agents surrounded Ulbricht
near the science fiction shelf at a San Francisco Public Library
branch on Oct. 1 before leading him away, said Michelle Jeffers,
a library spokeswoman.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Ulbricht, 13-mg-023287; a
related civil forfeiture case is U.S. v. Ulbricht, 13-cv-06919,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The murder-for-hire case is U.S. v. Ulbricht, 13-00222, U.S.
District Court, District of  Maryland  (Baltimore).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  