-- Madoff Trustee Appeals to U.S. Supreme Court in Bank Suit
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-10-09T20:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/madoff-trustee-appeals-to-u-s-supreme-court-in-bank-suit.html
The trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, aiming to
revive lawsuits that seek billions of dollars from banks
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Irving Picard contends in his suits that the banks ignored
Madoff’s fraud for the sake of millions of dollars in fees. A
federal appeals court in  New York  threw out the suits in June.
The fraud, the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history, cost
thousands of investors $17 billion in lost principal and
billions more in imaginary profit.  Picard argues in his Supreme Court appeal, filed today in
 Washington , that the appeals court improperly limited the power
of trustees and the protections for customers under the U.S.
Securities Investor Protection Act.  The banks “are as responsible as Madoff for the enormous
magnitude of customer losses,” Picard argued in court papers.  High court review would potentially give defrauded
investors a bigger pot from which to recover their claims.  Picard so far has collected $9.5 billion, mostly by
settling earlier lawsuits against individuals alleged to have
known about the fraud. He has distributed $4.8 billion to
customers, according to his  website . The Securities Investor
Protection Corp. has paid customers another $707 million.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, and Juanita Gutierrez, an HSBC spokeswoman, declined to comment on the court
filing.  Madoff, 75, is serving a 150-year prison sentence. His
scheme collapsed in 2008 when he could no longer attract enough
new money to fund withdrawals.  The case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 13-448.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  