-- Magyar Telekom Falls to Record Low on HSBC Cut: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-10-09T15:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/magyar-telekom-set-for-record-low-on-hsbc-cut-budapest-mover.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s
largest telecommunication-service provider, fell to the lowest
level on record after HSBC Holdings Plc cut the stock to
underweight, citing the risks to dividend payments.  Shares of the unit of  Germany ’s  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  slid 2
percent to 297 forint by the close in Budapest, the lowest since
they started trading in 1997. More than 2 million securities
changed hands, almost double the three-month daily average. HSBC
cut its price estimate by 22 percent to 280 forint and lowered
the recommendation from neutral.  Magyar Telekom has lost more than a fifth of its market
value this year as its debt level exceeded the 30 to 40 percent
range set by the company as a guideline for dividend payments.
The operator reached a 34 billion-forint ($155 million)
agreement with Hungary’s media authority for frequency band
extensions, Magyar Telekom said last month.  “Dividends are at risk for the next two or three years due
to higher-than-expected payments for a license renewal and
impending spectrum payments,” London-based equities analysts at
HSBC, including Herve Drouet, said in an e-mailed report today.
“Frequent regulatory interference and changing revenue mix”
will also impact profitability, they said.  The  net-debt ratio  of Magyar Telekom reached 42 percent in
the second quarter, according to an earnings statement. The
company has  paid  a 50-forint cash dividend in each of the past
three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Magyar Telekom shares have declined more than 7 percent in
the three months through today, the most among 16 eastern
European telecom companies  tracked  by Bloomberg.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
cut its rating for the shares to hold from buy yesterday as it
predicted a dividend won’t be paid next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  