-- Airbnb Objects to New York Probe Over Short-Term Rentals
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-10-09T22:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/airbnb-objects-to-new-york-probe-over-short-term-rentals.html
Airbnb Inc., a short-term home rental
service for travelers, said it objects to a request from the  New
York  attorney general’s office for information about hosts who
sublet apartments.  The San Francisco-based online service said today it filed
a petition in state court in Albany, New York, to quash a
subpoena from state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. The
petition couldn’t be immediately verified in court records.  In a copy of the petition documents provided by the
company, Airbnb said the subpoena is a “fishing expedition”
that wrongly seeks confidential information, including names,
home addresses and tax information about the hosts.  Schneiderman’s office “has not articulated even minimal
investigatory belief that any specific Airbnb host -- much less
the majority of New York hosts -- has violated any law,” the
company said in a memorandum. “Government and law enforcement
agencies do not have an unfettered right to subpoena whatever
data they want, whenever they want.”  Airbnb said it’s been in discussions with the attorney
general’s office since at least Aug. 19 over the probe, which
relates to whether the service’s users were paying applicable
lodging taxes, according to the document.  “Airbnb is wrong on the merits, and wrong to obstruct the
state of New York’s efforts to enforce the law,”  Damien LaVera ,
a spokesman for Schneiderman said in an e-mail. “We are
confident the courts will see through their stalling
tactics, and allow the attorney general to enforce the law.”  Private Dwellings  The company said it offered to cooperate as long as the
attorney general’s office helped create disclosures for the
Airbnb website explaining when and how taxes should be paid.
Schneiderman’s office refused and served a subpoena on Airbnb on
Oct. 4, the company said.  New York City  has been a legal battleground for Airbnb,
which allows people to rent private dwellings as an alternative
to hotels. A 2010 New York law bars renters from subletting
apartments for fewer than 30 days with some exceptions.  Last month, the company helped a tenant who sublet his
apartment through the service overturn a $2,400 fine levied by
the city.  In an Oct. 6 blog post, Airbnb’s head of global policy,
David Hantman, said the company wants “to work with governments
to make the Airbnb community stronger.”  The demand from the New York attorney general seeking data
on 15,000 New York Airbnb hosts, is “unreasonably broad and we
will fight it with everything we’ve got,” he wrote.  The case is Airbnb Inc. v. Schneiderman, New York Supreme
Court, County of  Albany  (Albany).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, at +1-   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  