-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Fall Most in 3 Weeks on Intervention Risk
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-10-09T04:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/taiwan-dollar-forwards-fall-most-in-3-weeks-on-intervention-risk.html
Taiwan  dollar forwards fell the most
in almost three weeks on speculation the central bank may step
up intervention to protect exports.  The local dollar has climbed 1.3 percent in the past month
as global funds injected $3.6 billion into domestic stocks. The
monetary authority started inspecting major currency-trading
banks last week to warn against speculation, Commercial Times
reported on Oct. 7, citing unidentified traders. Gou Tai-Chiang,
chairman of the Taiwan Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers’
Association, said he told President Ma Ying-jeou currency policy
should be adjusted because of the importance of exports to the
island’s economy, according to an Apple Daily report today.  “Some industry leaders are sending the message to the
government that, if the Taiwan dollar appreciates further,
electronics makers may start losing money,” said Tarsicio Tong,
a Taipei-based currency trader at Union Bank of Taiwan. “I
think the central bank will block gains to some extent.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.2 percent to
NT$29.376 per dollar as of 12:24 p.m. in Taipei, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest decline since
Sept. 20. Taiwan’s markets will be closed tomorrow for a public
holiday.  Overseas  shipments , which account for around three-quarters
of Taiwan’s economy, slumped 7 percent in September from a year
earlier after rising in the previous four months, official data
showed this week. Policy makers will step in to maintain an
orderly market should irregular factors such as large short-term
capital flows lead to “excess volatility,” the central bank
said in a Sept. 26 statement.  Taiwan Dollar  The local dollar strengthened 0.3 percent to NT$29.442
against the greenback, prices from Taipei Forex Inc. show. The
currency dropped 0.5 percent in the final 14 minutes of trading
yesterday on suspected intervention by the central bank. The
monetary authority has sold the local dollar in the run-up to
the close on most days since March 2012, according to traders
who asked not to be identified.  The yield on the 1.75 percent government notes due
September 2023 rose one basis point to 1.656 percent, according
to Gretai Securities Market. Taiwan will sell NT$30 billion ($1
billion) of five-year bonds today.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the exchange rate used to price options, dropped 11 basis points
to 3.84 percent. The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady
at 0.386 percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  