-- Taiwan Warns China Could Mount a Successful Invasion by 2020
-- B y   A r g i n   C h a n g   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2013-10-09T08:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/taiwan-warns-that-china-could-mount-successful-invasion-by-2020.html
China  will be able to successfully
invade  Taiwan  by 2020 as it gains military strength and develops
technology to prevent allies such as the U.S. from coming to the
island’s aid, the Taiwanese defense ministry said.  A military modernization campaign has seen China’s People’s
Liberation Army enhance its ability to make long-range precision
strikes and deny other ships access to the area, the ministry
said in its 2013 National Defense Report. China’s defense budget
has more than doubled since 2006.  “As the PLA continues to grow and proactively builds its
anti-access/area denial strategy, and as it develops long-range
precision strike weaponry and extends its overseas power
projection capability, they will become a serious threat to the
security of our nation,” the report said.  The ministry’s assessment underscores China’s growing
military might in a region where it has pressed its territorial
claims more aggressively in disputes with  Japan , the  Philippines 
and  Vietnam . The U.S. military says China has deployed a
ballistic missile along its southern coast to deter American
aircraft carriers in the region that might come to Taiwan’s aid.  The defense ministry report, released yesterday, comes as
China and the island it considers a breakaway province have
deepened economic ties. Chinese President Xi Jinping signaled he
wants a political resolution, saying at a regional summit this
month that the two sides can’t hand those problems “down from
generation to generation.”  Asean Summit  China’s territorial disputes with other nations may
dominate a two-day summit hosted by the  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations  that begins today in Brunei. The report’s release
may be aimed at reminding people of the China threat amid better
ties, according to Wong Ming-Hsien, a Taipei-based professor at
Tamkang University’s Graduate Institute of International Affairs
and Strategic Studies.  “China’s military already has the power to attack Taiwan -
- it’s now looking to counter threats from countries like the
 United States  and Japan,” Wong said. “The report mentioning
2020 is to remind Taiwan and the rest of the world that China
has not given up using force against Taiwan.”  China and Taiwan have been ruled separately since
Nationalist Party forces led by Chiang Kai-shek fled to the
island during a war against Mao Zedong’s Communists in 1949.
Under the Taiwan Relations Act of 1972, the U.S. is obligated to
maintain peace and security across the  Taiwan Strait . U.S.
military budget cuts may hurt the standing of the U.S. in  Asia 
over the next 10 to 15 years, the report said.  Peaceful Momentum  Asked to comment on the report today, Chinese Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said she hadn’t seen it but
the two sides have “momentum of peaceful development.”  “We hope to keep communicating with Taiwan to protect the
momentum,” Hua said. “This is beneficial to people on both
sides and beneficial to regional peace and prosperity.”  China has stated that “separatist forces” in Taiwan are
the main threat to peace, Taiwan’s defense ministry said. The
PLA is already able to seal off Taiwan’s main island and occupy
outlying islands, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Argin Chang in Taipei at 
 achang153@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  