-- Alipay Parent Buys $193 Million Stake in China Asset Manager
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/alipay-s-parent-to-invest-193-million-in-chinese-asset-manager.html
The parent of Alipay.com Co.,
Chinese billionaire Jack Ma’s online payments operator, will pay
1.18 billion  yuan  ($193 million) for a controlling stake in an
asset manager as he expands investment in financial services.  Zhejiang Alibaba E-commerce Co., controlled by Ma, will buy
new shares to get 51 percent of Tian Hong Asset Management Co.,
according to a  statement  to the  Shanghai Stock Exchange 
yesterday from Inner Mongolia Junzheng Energy & Chemical
Industry Co., another Tian Hong shareholder. Alipay has offered
fund products from Tian Hong since June.  The acquisition is part of a wider push by Ma’s Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s largest e-commerce company, to
expand in the country’s financial industry. Other Internet
companies including  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  and  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  are
also moving into finance as authorities open banking and other
industries to private capital as part of Premier  Li Keqiang ’s
push to reduce the government’s role in the economy.  “Alibaba’s previous cooperation with Tian Hong was very
successful, and investing into the company will give it more
control,” said Wang Weidong, analyst at the Shanghai-based
Internet consultant IResearch. “They can come up with further
innovations in Internet finance.”  Alipay , which offers an equivalent of PayPal Inc.’s
service, had more than 800 million registered accounts as of
July, compared with 420 million customers at  Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd. (1288) , the country’s largest lender by that measure.  Leftover Treasure  The payments operator began offering fund products from
Tian Hong in June on a platform called Yu’E Bao, meaning
“leftover treasure.” Online shoppers who use Alipay can put
spare cash into Yu’E Bao, which invests in funds. There is no
minimum for how much shoppers have to put into Yu’E Bao and they
can withdraw the money at anytime.  Yu’E Bao attracted 2.5 million users with 5.7 billion yuan
($931 million) of investments by the end of June, Alipay said.
The annualized return based on the latest seven-day average was
4.99 percent on Oct. 10, according to Yu’E Bao’s website.  Inner Mongolia Junzheng shares rose by the  10 percent  daily
limit to 10.99 yuan at the mid-day break, while the Shanghai
Composite Index slipped 0.9 percent. Alipay.com and Zhejiang
Alibaba aren’t publicly traded.  Alipay, whose spinoff from the Alibaba Group led to
differences between Ma and Yahoo! Inc., is now fully owned by
Zhejiang Alibaba E-commerce Co., which in turn is about 46
percent owned by Ma, according to company filings as of May.  Private Investment  China has reduced state controls of  interest rates , allowed
greater foreign investment in domestic markets and is moving to
let more private investors set up banks as authorities seek to
give markets a greater role in the economy.  Former Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in April 2012 that the
nation’s banking monopoly needed to be broken. China’s five
biggest lenders are all state owned.  Li, who took over from Wen in March, said at his first
press conference as premier that China needed to reduce the
government’s economic role even if it is as painful as “cutting
one’s wrist.”  In addition to offering access to funds, Alibaba also set
up a microloans business three years ago. It has extended more
than 100 billion yuan of financing to more than 320,000 small
online businesses and entrepreneurs, it said in an e-mailed
statement in July.  Micro financing has flourished in China since its inception
in 2005 as the nation’s 42 million smaller businesses missed out
on a 4 1/2 year credit binge that mostly benefited government-backed enterprises and projects. Less than 10 percent of small
private enterprises have access to bank loans, according to
Citic Securities Co. estimates, despite accounting for 60
percent of economic output and 80 percent of jobs.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  