-- Alitalia Plans to More Than Double Size of Capital Hike
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-10-10T12:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/alitalia-plans-to-more-than-double-size-of-capital-hike.html
Alitalia  SpA needs a bigger capital
injection than previously estimated, as management works to
secure a package approaching half a billion euros ($676 million)
to keep the airline afloat, trade union executives said.  The measures include a capital increase of as much as 300
million euros, three times the amount the carrier had sought
earlier, according to the union officials who met Chief
Executive Officer Gabriele Del Torchio yesterday. The government
is involved in the salvage mission, with potentially just days
remaining to avert a collapse, they said.  “Del Torchio said the company may go bankrupt in a few
days,” said Franco Nasso, general secretary of the Filt Cgil
trade union. “The government should intervene urgently in the
next hours with a state entity” that would buy a stake.  Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta is making a last-ditch
effort to save the airline that’s suffered mounting losses and
dwindling cash reserves. Compounding Alitalia’s woes is a threat
by energy company  Eni SpA (ENI)  to halt fuel supplies in two days
unless Alitalia shows it is able to continue operations.   Air
France-KLM Group (AF) , the biggest shareholder, has been reluctant to
take on the role of savior in a rescue operation.  State Involvement  An Italian state entity may join existing shareholders,
including Air France-KLM, in the capital increase by investing
150 million euros, Claudio Tarlazzi, secretary general of the
Uiltrasporti union, told reporters after the meeting in Rome.  Poste Italiane SpA, Italy’s state-owned postal service, may
be involved in a deal, said two people familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be named as the plan is private. CEO Massimo Sarmi took part in the talks, they people said.  Alitalia’s board, originally scheduled to meet in Rome at 5
p.m., will convene tomorrow, a spokeswoman for the company said.
The government is seeking a solution before the comapany’s board
meeting, said three people familiar with the matter. The company
is also trying to secure a bank loan of as much as 200 million
euros in additional financing, they said. Officials at Alitalia
and Air France-KLM declined to comment.  The carrier said after a meeting Oct. 8 that it needed more
time to define rescue measures.  Italy ’s aviation authority also
summoned the executives to a meeting today and said afterwards
that the company displays “economic-financial stress,” while
there are “positive signs’ regarding the airline’s operations
security, according to a statement.  Board Meetings  Alitalia’s board on Sept. 26 approved a capital increase of
least 100 million euros because its cash has dwindled following
the heavier first-half net loss. The priority is to resolve the
cash shortage through new financing and a capital increase
before combining with an international player, people familiar
with the proposed rescue plan have said.  Letta is pushing for a state-controlled company to invest
in Alitalia and ease a combination with Air France-KLM or
another carrier, people familiar with the effort said this week.
Government Undersecretary Filippo Patroni Griffi said yesterday
that the government is evaluating Alitalia’s situation.  ‘‘It’s a serious problem for the country and we are
discussing it,” Griffi said.  Air France-KLM said last month that it needs more
information from Alitalia before it can decide its next move.
The French carrier is under pressure itself to cut costs, and
its French subsidiary plans to eliminate 1,826 ground-staff jobs
through voluntary employee departures to address weaker demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  