-- Aliyev Poised to Prolong Four-Decade Family Rule in Azerbaijan
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-10-09T05:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/aliyev-poised-to-prolong-four-decade-family-rule-in-azerbaijan.html
Azerbaijan votes for president today,
with incumbent Ilham Aliyev set to win a third term to extend
his family’s four-decade rule over the largest oil producer in
the former Soviet Union after  Russia  and Kazakhstan.  Aliyev, 51, may get as much as 90 percent of the vote,
according to a survey last month by Baku-based NGO Partnership
Alliance and the U.K.’s European Center for Survey Research. The
Azeri leader succeeded his late father in 2003 and was re-elected five years, gaining 77 percent and 87 percent of the
vote in the two elections, respectively. Neither contests were
deemed free or fair by U.S. and European observers.  “The result is not in doubt,” Thomas de Waal, senior
associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in
 Washington , said in a research note Oct. 7.  Aliyev’s main challenger is Camil Hasanli, 61, a history
professor at Baku State University, whose books on U.S.-Soviet
relations during the Cold War have been taught in western
universities. Hasanli is the first consensus candidate to
challenge Aliyev, put forward by opposition groups united under
the National Council of Democratic Forces. The alliance’s first
choice, Oscar-winning screenwriter Rustam Ibrahimbayov, was
disqualified for having Russian citizenship.  Polls opened at 8 a.m. local time and initial results are
due by midnight, according to the Central Electoral Commission
in the capital Baku. About 5 million of the country’s 9.4
million people are eligible to vote, the regulator said on its
website. Thousands of local and international observers from
groups including the European Parliament and the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe are monitoring the vote.  Gas, Europe  BP Plc (BP/)  and its partners have invested more than $40 billion
in Caspian Sea energy projects in Azerbaijan since 1994 and plan
to invest another $25 billion by the end of the decade to
develop the Shah Deniz gas field to supply Europe via the
Southern Gas Corridor, which bypasses Russia.  Buoyed by western energy investments, Aliyev has more than
tripled the size of the economy in the past decade as oil and
gas output surged. That fueled a sixfold jump in the average
wage to 403 manat ($517) a month and slashed the official
poverty rate to less than 6 percent of the population from
almost half, according to the government’s statistics office.  Aliyev said during a televised cabinet meeting Oct. 7 that
he’s created more than 1 million new jobs through “massive”
investment programs since taking power.  EU Criticism  Still, Azerbaijan is ranked among the world’s most corrupt
and repressive governments by Transparency International and
Reporters Without Borders. Dozens of activists, journalists,
bloggers and other critics have been arrested or convicted of
“bogus charges” during the past 18 months, Human Rights Watch
said in a Sept. 2 report.  The European Union last week warned of “continued
pressure” on activists, civil society and independent media
that includes “intimidation, arrests on dubious charges,
detentions, and sentencing without proper respect for
international standards and rights of the accused,” according
to a statement signed by Catherine Ashton, the 28-nation bloc’s
foreign policy chief, and Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule.  The EU’s assessment was rejected by Elnur Aslanov, an aide
to Aliyev and a member of the ruling party’s political council.
Aslanov said in an Oct. 4 interview in Baku that EU officials
were “maliciously” seeking to influence the election and that
Aliyev’s government has done “everything to ensure that the
election is held in a free, fair and transparent atmosphere.”  Afghan Supplies  The U.S. government, which uses Azerbaijan as a transit
corridor for non-military shipments to  Afghanistan , said it
hopes the election will be “a step” toward greater political
freedom in the country.  “Both publicly and privately, we continuously urge greater
respect for human rights, improved governance and transparency,
and stronger anti-corruption efforts,” the U.S. embassy in Baku
said in an e-mailed statement.  While Aliyev’s victory is all but assured, the opposition
can take credit for finally overcoming their internal
disagreements and uniting under a single banner, said Lawrence Sheets, South Caucasus project director at the Brussels-based
International Crisis Group.  “What has perhaps attracted the most attention is that
most opposition groups, which have been notorious for their
fragmentation and inability to overcome their personal
differences, finally managed to agree to back a single
candidate,” Sheets said by e-mail. “Even though President
Aliyev’s aides speak about support levels of 70, 80, or 90
percent, the authorities still seem quite concerned about
possible unrest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  