-- Aliyev Wins Azerbaijan Presidential Election
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-10-09T21:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/aliyev-wins-azeri-presidential-election-exit-polls-show.html
Ilham Aliyev  won a third term as
Azerbaijan’s president to extend his family’s four-decade rule
over the former  Soviet Union ’s third-largest oil producer.  Aliyev, 51, tallied 85 percent in yesterday’s vote with 72
percent of polling stations reporting, the private APA news
service  said , citing the Central Election Commission in Baku.
Camil Hasanli, the candidate backed by opposition parties, got
5.3 percent, with eight others receiving votes, it said.  The Azeri leader succeeded his late father in 2003 and was
re-elected five years ago, gaining 77 percent and 87 percent of
the vote in the two elections, respectively. Neither contests
were deemed free or fair by U.S. and European observers.  “With the support of the people, Ilham Aliyev will rule
 Azerbaijan  for another five years,” Ali Ahmadov, deputy
chairman of the ruling Yeni Azerbaijan party, said at a news
conference in Baku, according to APA. The party celebrated with
its supporters in the city center with a concert and fireworks.  Hasanli, 61, was the first consensus candidate to challenge
Aliyev, put forward by opposition groups united under the
National Council of Democratic Forces. Hasanli’s campaign
headquarters alleged the authorities have allowed widespread
fraud, including ballot stuffing and multiple voting, a practice
known as a “carousel,” according to a statement on its
Facebook  page .  The Central Electoral Commission said it didn’t receive any
complaints, according to APA. About 5 million of the country’s
9.4 million people are eligible to vote, the regulator said on
its website. Thousands of local and international observers from
groups including the European Parliament and the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in  Europe  monitored the election.  Oil Investment  BP Plc (BP/)  and its partners have invested more than $40 billion
in Caspian Sea energy projects in Azerbaijan since 1994 and plan
to invest another $25 billion by the end of the decade to
develop the Shah Deniz natural gas field to supply Europe via
the Southern Gas Corridor, which bypasses  Russia .  Buoyed by western energy investments, Aliyev has more than
tripled the size of the economy in the past decade as oil and
gas output surged. That fueled a sixfold jump in the average
wage to 403 manat ($517) a month and slashed the official
 poverty rate  to less than 6 percent of the population from
almost half, according to the government’s statistics office.  Aliyev said during a televised cabinet meeting Oct. 7 that
he’s created more than 1 million new jobs through “massive”
investment programs since taking power.  ‘Bogus Charges’  Still, Azerbaijan is ranked among the world’s most corrupt
and repressive governments by  Transparency International  and
Reporters Without Borders. Dozens of activists, journalists,
bloggers and other critics have been arrested or convicted of
“bogus charges” during the past 18 months,  Human Rights Watch 
said in a Sept. 2 report.  The European Union last week warned of “continued
pressure” on activists, civil society and independent media
that includes “intimidation, arrests on dubious charges,
detentions, and sentencing without proper respect for
international standards and rights of the accused,” according
to a statement signed by  Catherine Ashton , the 28-nation bloc’s
foreign policy chief, and Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule.  The EU’s assessment was rejected by Elnur Aslanov, an aide
to Aliyev and a member of the ruling party’s political council.
Aslanov said in an Oct. 4 interview in Baku that EU officials
were “maliciously” seeking to influence the election and that
Aliyev’s government has done “everything to ensure that the
election is held in a free, fair and transparent atmosphere.”  The U.S. government, which uses Azerbaijan as a transit
corridor for non-military shipments to  Afghanistan , said it
hopes the election will be “a step” toward greater political
freedom in the country.  “Both publicly and privately, we continuously urge greater
respect for human rights, improved governance and transparency,
and stronger anti-corruption efforts,” the U.S. embassy in Baku
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  