-- Antero Surges After Shale Gas Producer’s $1.57 Billion IPO
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-10-10T20:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/antero-raises-1-57-billion-pricing-increased-ipo-above-range.html
Antero Resources Corp. (AR) , the natural-gas company backed by Warburg Pincus LLC, jumped in its trading
debut after raising $1.57 billion in a larger-than-expected U.S.
initial public offering.  The stock rose more than 18 percent to $52.01 as of 4 p.m.
in  New York . Antero sold 35.7 million shares for $44 each,
according to a statement yesterday.  Antero, which produces gas in West Virginia,  Ohio  and
 Pennsylvania , is the most active driller in the Marcellus Shale
with 15 rigs in operation, according to company data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries. Investors are betting on high growth at
Antero to continue, while low production costs keep wells
profitable even after gas prices fell about 45 percent over the
past five years.  “The growth rate behind this company is phenomenal,” Neal Dingmann, a Houston-based analyst for Suntrust Robinson Humphrey
Inc., said today in a telephone interview. “They’ll double
production in a year and increase it at least 50 percent plus
the year after that.”  Dingmann, who rates the shares at buy with a $52.50 price
target, doesn’t own any of the stock.  Antero, which had offered 30 million shares for $38 to $42,
boosted the  price range  to $43 to $45 apiece before the IPO,
according to Brean Capital LLC. The share sale is the largest
U.S. energy IPO this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Marcellus Shale  Sales of natural gas at Denver-based Antero tripled to
$294.3 million in the first half of the year compared with the
same period in 2012, according to regulatory filings. The
company’s output rose 20 percent in the past quarter to the
equivalent of 458 million cubic feet per day. Antero plans to
use the net proceeds from the offering to repay debt.  The Marcellus, which stretches from  West Virginia  to
southern New York, is the largest U.S. shale gas resource,
holding the equivalent of 394 trillion cubic feet of the heating
and power-plant fuel, according to  Investment Technology Group
Inc. (ITG) , a Calgary-based advisory firm and brokerage.  Antero, the seventh-largest public leaseholder in the
Marcellus deposit, with control of 329,000 acres, is also
drilling for gas in the Utica resource in Ohio.  “Antero Resources will become a ‘must-own’ exploration and
production name due to its dominant position in the core of
Utica and Marcellus shale,” Adam Michael, a New York-based
analyst for Miller Tabak & Co., wrote today in a note to
clients. Michael has a buy rating and $62.50 price target on the
stock.  Warburg’s Stake  Funds affiliated with  Warburg Pincus  will have more than 38
percent of the voting interests in Antero Resources Investment
LLC, which will own 87 percent of the company after the
offering, the prospectus shows. Yorktown Partners LLC and
Trilantic Capital Partners also have stakes in Antero.  Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit
Suisse Group AG, Jefferies Group LLC and  Wells Fargo & Co .
managed the offering.  The company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol AR.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  