-- Apple Victory Over Samsung Seen Leading to Customs Fight
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-10-09T06:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/apple-victory-over-samsung-seen-leading-to-customs-fight.html
For  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , winning a U.S. import
ban against some  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  smartphones and tablets
may prove easier than getting it enforced.  The U.S. International Trade Commission’s order, upheld by
President  Barack Obama ’s administration yesterday, blocks
Samsung from importing or selling certain devices found to
infringe Apple patents for multitouch features and a headphone
jack sensor.  Deciding which products are banned, and which were
successfully designed around the patents, falls to U.S. Customs
and Border Protection. Apple, Microsoft Corp. and other
technology companies have criticized the security agency for
lacking the know-how to enforce these types of rulings -- and
that was before the U.S. government’s partial shutdown.  “They are focusing on their truly primary missions of
national security and public safety -- like weapons and drugs,”
said Jim Altman, a lawyer with Foster, Murphy, Altman & Nickel
in  Washington  who specializes in trade cases. “My guess is
intellectual property would not get the attention it would
normally.”  Both sides will lobby Customs for favorable
interpretations. Samsung has presented two arguments: only a
small number of models are covered by the ban, and the order
will reduce U.S. competition and limit consumer choice.  Apple, which will push for a larger number of models to be
included, has argued that Samsung gives old devices new names
without making the necessary changes to avoid using patented
technology.  Federal Furloughs  “There has been a growing and worrisome trend among
complainants to broadly define the scope of the investigation,
but attempt to prove a violation based on a narrow category of
products,” Samsung wrote in an Aug. 28 filing with the U.S.
Trade Representative to ask that the ban be overturned.  The result, it said, can be an import ban that covers
devices the trade commission never considered.  The Department of Homeland Security, which includes
Customs, has declared border security part of essential
government services. The department’s contingency plan called
for  more  than 31,000 of its 231,000 employees to be furloughed.
Officials with Customs didn’t return messages seeking comment.  “Customs could say ‘Gee, we’d like to enforce the import
ban, but we don’t have anyone,’” said Carl Howe, an analyst
with Boston-based researcher Yankee Group. “Things are going to
get interesting.”  The South Korean government said it regrets the U.S. ban,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Ministry of Trade,
Industry and Energy.  Microsoft Lawsuit  Apple, of Cupertino,  California , has said Customs isn’t
strict enough in enforcing the bans. It claimed the agency
improperly let  HTC Corp. (2498)  ship in some of its smartphones that
infringed an Apple patent for data-tapping. The two companies
later settled their dispute.  Microsoft sued Customs and Homeland Security in July,
claiming an import ban it won against smartphones made by Google
Inc.’s Motorola Mobility isn’t being enforced. The trade agency
last month said Microsoft should have first filed its complaints
with the ITC, and backed an effort to have the case dismissed.  Enforcement Review  In declining to veto the ban imposed against Samsung, U.S.
Trade Representative  Michael Froman  said Obama in June ordered a
review of the Customs enforcement process.  “If questions should arise about the scope of the
exclusion order, I would urge close coordination between CBP and
the USITC in addressing such enforcement issues,” Froman said
in his statement.  The U.S. market tends to focus on higher-end models that
are probably going to be cleared by Customs, said  Will Stofega ,
program director at researcher IDC, based in Framingham,
 Massachusetts .  “It’s about getting the new model,” Stofega said.
“People tend to not want the old devices -- they want the
latest and greatest thing. If it were a more worldwide ban, that
would be a different story.”  To Apple, forcing Samsung to alter the designs of its
phones is as, if not more, important than the $1 billion jury
verdict it won in federal court against its Korean competitor in
California a year ago. The damages, part of which must be
retried, equal about 10 days’ worth of the third-quarter
operating profit that Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung announced
last week.  ‘Anti-Competitive Tool’  “The legal redress is not sufficient to change the
behavior, at least not yet,” Howe said. “When the courts dig
into these things, and look into the merits of the cases,
they’re saying, ‘It looks like Samsung does tend to copy the
stuff that Apple has patented and that’s a problem.’”  The smartphone disputes reflect issues with the patent
system, said Edward Black, president of the Computer &
Communications Industry Association, a Washington trade group
with members including Samsung and Google, whose Android
operating system runs Samsung phones.  “All the companies involved are innovative companies and
they are not copying or stealing from each other,” Black said.
“The use of patents as anti-competitive tools are problematic
for consumers in general.”  Apple has argued that it needs to differentiate its iPhone
and iPad tablet computer from the competition to entice and
retain customers.  Negligible Impact  Samsung, which denies infringing any Apple patents, can ask
a U.S. appeals court to put the import ban on hold until the
underlying patent case can be considered.  A ban focused on older devices may have limited impact on
Samsung as it would still be able to ship its newest handsets,
said Mark Newman, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein. Samsung got 29 percent of last year’s sales from
U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This ban is restricted to older Samsung products and the
impact on Samsung should therefore be negligible,” Newman said.  Even with the government shutdown, Altman said Samsung will
be careful not to be seen as thumbing its nose at the import
ban. The company also makes washing machines, televisions and
computer chips.  “They don’t want to be known as someone who’s going to do
that,” he said. “They want the U.S. government to think of
them as someone who doesn’t cheat.”  The Apple case against Samsung is In the Matter of
Electronic Digital Media Devices, 337-796, and Samsung’s case is
In the Matter of Electronic Devices, Including Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, and Tablet Computers, 337-794, both U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  