-- Apple Moves Closer to China Mobile With Ad Seeking Network Skill
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-09T10:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/apple-seeks-china-mobile-3g-4g-knowledge-in-beijing-engineer-ad.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  wants to hire an engineer
with extensive knowledge of  China Mobile Ltd. (941) ’s homegrown phone
network, evidence it’s moving toward an agreement for the
world’s largest carrier to offer the iPhone.  The manager, who will be based in Beijing, will “support
and drive the carrier approval of mobile phones,” Apple said in
an  advertisement  on its China website. The position seeks
experience with TD-SCDMA, China Mobile’s own third-generation
standard that isn’t used by other carriers.  China Mobile, with 63 percent of the nation’s 1.2 billion
wireless subscribers, doesn’t have an iPhone distribution
agreement as Apple sells its handsets through the nation’s two
smaller operators,  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  and  China
Telecom Corp. (728)  Apple is near a deal with China Mobile and is
preparing to ship iPhones to the carrier, a person familiar with
the talks said last month.  “China Mobile and Apple have been in talks on cooperation,
and there is no information that can be disclosed,” the press
office of the company’s state-owned parent, China Mobile
Communications Corp., said today in an e-mail.  Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based Apple spokeswoman, didn’t
return calls and an e-mailed request for comments on the status
of talks with China Mobile and the job posting.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  has visited China at
least twice this year as the Cupertino, California-based company
boosts its focus on a region that was its  third-biggest  source
of sales in the June quarter, behind only the U.S. and Europe.  IPhone Rollout  Cook has said China will overtake the U.S. as its largest
market, and the company last month released its new iPhone 5s
and 5c in the country the same day they went on sale in North
America,  Japan  and Europe.  Apple is looking to add a new pool of customers as it faces
slowing sales and profit growth and grapples with competition
from Samsung Electronics Co. and Chinese makers of smartphones
costing as little as $100.  The job posting seeks in-depth knowledge and experience
with wireless systems including TD-LTE, which is the 4G standard
used by  China  Mobile. Skills with WCDMA and CDMA, the
technologies used by China Unicom and China Telecom,
respectively, are also sought.  “This role will be responsible for the overall management
of the technical interface to all carriers in the Greater China
region,” Apple said in the ad.  “This includes obtaining approvals for all Apple hardware
and software, supporting carriers with new technology trials,
managing carrier reported technical issues, tracking carrier
road maps and supporting senior level engineering meetings.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  