-- Marcus Says South Africa Needs Higher Reserves Amid Risks
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n ,   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-10-09T10:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/marcus-says-south-africa-needs-higher-reserves-amid-risks.html
South Africa  needs to boost foreign-currency reserves to shield the economy against the risk of
capital outflows, central bank Governor Gill Marcus said.  Reserves “are low by comparison with our emerging-market
peers,” Marcus told lawmakers in Cape Town today. “The need to
accumulate these reserves has been driven by the need to reduce
our vulnerability to sudden large outflows of capital, something
that is regarded as a real risk.”  The rand has lost 15 percent against the dollar this year
as the U.S. Federal Reserve contemplates reducing its $85
billion-a-month monetary stimulus program that’s helped to
support global growth. The  World Bank  and  International Monetary
Fund  warned this week that South Africa is vulnerable to the
risk of capital outflows.  While the nation’s central bank has boosted  gross reserves 
over the years to $50.02 billion in September, compared with
$376 billion in Brazil and $172 billion in  Mexico (MXIRINUS) , it doesn’t
intervene in the foreign-exchange market to target a specific
level for the rand. South African authorities don’t have the
resources to influence the currency, Finance Minister  Pravin
Gordhan  said in an interview on Oct. 7 .  The rand erased an earlier increase against the dollar,
losing as much as 0.2 percent shortly after Marcus spoke. It was
little changed at 9.9992 against the U.S. currency by 11:41 a.m.
in Johannesburg.  ‘Limit Potential’  “Although it’s nothing new that South Africa needs more
reserves, those comments limit the potential for massive rand
gains,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief dealer at Bidvest Bank, said
by phone from Johannesburg. “It’s not a rand-positive
comment.”  The bank’s mandate is explicitly  price stability , though it
considers a number of other factors, including economic growth,
Marcus said. Monetary policy is accommodative with negative real
interest rates, the  Reserve Bank  said in a written presentation
to lawmakers.  The central bank has held its benchmark  interest rate  at  5
percent (SARPRT)  since July 2012 even as  inflation  exceeded its 3 percent
to 6 percent target band.  The central bank is concerned about the risks to inflation,
of which the rand is the biggest, Brian Kahn, member of the
Monetary Policy Committee and adviser to Marcus, told lawmakers.  Dilemma Continues  “Potential for further monetary accommodation is limited
due to inflationary pressures,” he said. “The dilemma facing
monetary policy does continue. We have a fragile growth
environment but upside risks to the inflation outlook.”  The Reserve Bank forecast the South African economy will
expand at about 2 percent this year, which is “not very good,”
Kahn said. “We really need around 5 percent growth to make
significant inroads into unemployment.”  Strikes in the third quarter in the car and component maker
industries will have had a negative impact on growth, Kahn said.  “The third-quarter outlook is not very good,” he said.
The outlook for the  mining industry  “is not positive given the
work stoppages that we have seen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  