-- Ariad Plunges After FDA Places Trials of Inclusig on Hold
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-09T20:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/ariad-plunges-after-fda-places-trials-of-inclusig-on-hold.html
Ariad Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA)  tumbled
the most ever after U.S. regulators placed a hold on enrollment
in all trials of the company’s approved cancer drug Iclusig
because of blood clots among participants.  Ariad dropped 66 percent to $5.83 in the biggest decline
since the shares started trading publicly in 1994. The company
has declined 70 percent this year.  Iclusig, approved last year for two rare forms of leukemia,
will continue to be given to people in the trials, with some
doses being reduced, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Ariad said
today in a statement. The Food and Drug Administration placed a
partial hold on the trials after results from one study found
serious arterial thrombosis occurred in 11.8 percent of Iclusig-treated patients and cardiovascular events in 6.2 percent.  “Ariad stock will be in the penalty box pending better
clarity on how this increased safety risk will affect current
utilization,” Michael Yee, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets,
wrote in a  note today.  Iclusig was approved based on an accelerated process that
relied on a single trial showing the drug helped patients.
Companies that gain accelerated approval must conduct additional
study to prove the drug is effective.  Heart Data  The FDA also asked Ariad for additional cardiovascular
safety data, according to the agency’s approval  letter  to the
company. Agency reviewers were concerned that about  8 percent  of
patients experienced serious events related to blood supply
restriction, according to a summary of the FDA’s review. The
design of the clinical trial made it difficult to determine
whether Iclusig caused the cardiovascular complications, the
agency’s reviewers wrote.  The safety issues may lead the FDA to convene a hearing to
consider removing Iclusig from the market, said Thomas Smith and
 Andrew Berens , analysts with Bloomberg Industries.  “Our investigation is ongoing,” Steven Immergut, an FDA
spokesman, said. “FDA will consider all safety initiatives and
options as we evaluate.”  In addition, results from a trial testing the drug’s use as
a first option for patients will be delayed, which “makes it
unlikely the stock will meaningfully recover anytime soon since
this is the biggest catalyst,” Yee, of RBC Capital, said.  Changing Doses  Iclusig will remain on the market, Ariad said. It was
approved last year to treat adults with chronic myeloid  leukemia 
and Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic
leukemia, two blood and bone marrow diseases. The drug was
approved three months ahead of schedule, though a black box
warning on its label drove the shares down the most in four
years at the time.  Ariad plans to resume studies after changes in dose and
other modifications are made. The company also is in
consultation with the FDA about possible changes to the drug’s
labeling.  “We take this very seriously,” Ariad Chief Executive
Officer Harvey Berger said today on a conference call.
“Patients come first, and we have to be very focused on
ensuring we have safe and effective doses and safe and effective
utilization of Iclusig in those patients.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  