-- Arsenal and Liverpool Must Pay $48.2 Million for Michu: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-09T07:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/arsenal-and-liverpool-must-pay-48-2-million-for-michu-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Michu’s Price  Arsenal and Liverpool would have to pay 30 million pounds
($48.2 million) to tempt Swansea to sell Spanish striker Michu,
the  Daily Express reported .  Gunners manager Arsene Wenger and Liverpool’s Brendan Rodgers continue to monitor the progress of a player who scored
18 Premier League goals last season after joining the Welsh club
for 2.2 million pounds, the newspaper added.  Hernandez Hint  Manchester United striker Javier Hernandez said he may have
to leave the club to get regular game time after starting two of
the 11 matches since David Moyes took over as manager, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  “I am working towards that, earning a spot as a starter,”
the Mirror cited Hernandez as saying. “I know that my
performance on the pitch will allow me to achieve that goal
someday either here or elsewhere for any other club.”  Bergkamp’s Ambition  Dennis Bergkamp said he wants to return to Arsenal to work
on the club’s coaching staff, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “At Arsenal it was a good click,” the Telegraph cited
Bergkamp, currently assistant manager at Ajax, as saying. “I
always enjoyed it. I never had a bad day there. It is always on
my mind. It is part of my ambition to come back at some stage.”  Arsenal Exit  Arsenal defender  Bacary Sagna  is likely to leave the
Gunners on a free transfer at the end of this season when his
contract expires, the  Daily Mail reported .  Sagna is preparing for life away from  London  and Arsenal’s
scouting network is identifying targets to replace him as first-choice right-back, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  