-- Harvard Business School Makes a Push Into Online Education
-- B y   L o u i s   L a v e l l e
-- 2013-10-09T17:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/harvard-business-school-makes-a-push-into-online-education.html
Harvard Business School  is developing
its first online learning initiative, with the aim of becoming
the world’s top provider of high-quality online business
education.  The move has the potential to shake up the nascent online
education market and give the elite business school a toehold in
the world of MOOCs, or massive open online courses. It’s also a
high-stakes gamble for Boston-based HBS, which has one of the
world’s best-known, and carefully burnished, educational brands.  John Fernandes, chief executive officer of business school
 accreditation group  Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of
Business, called Harvard’s move a “watershed” moment for the
century-old business school, which will be adding a third
delivery model to the MBA and executive education programs it
now offers.  “This is a lot bigger than meets the eye,” he said.
“They’re going to get high visibility with students all over
the world. I don’t want to say it’s going to displace face-to-face education, but it’s going to be a big piece of the pie.”  Few details are available. Jana Kierstead, executive
director of the Harvard MBA program, was named to head up the
new initiative, said Brian Kenny, chief marketing officer for
HBS.  Kierstead didn’t return calls seeking comment.  HarvardX Courses  The courses will probably be offered through EdX starting
in the spring or summer of 2014, Kenny said. The university’s
offering on EdX, known as HarvardX, currently has 17 courses,
including five that have already taken place; none are business
courses.  Kenny declined to discuss details of the HBX offering
including courses to be offered, costs if any, and how the
school plans to make money.  “We’re developing an online offering, but it’s too early
to give details,” he said. “We’re working with HarvardX. HBS’s
online offering is definitely something we’re in collaboration
with the university on.”  Harvard is advertising for employees for the HBX
initiative, including a product manager and director of academic
content development. The director will oversee content creation
including “interactive elements, multiple choice questions,
content scripts and mini simulations,” according to the ad, and
will be responsible for developing a “testing model” that
incorporates the use of an external testing partner to measure
student comprehension and engagement.  Harvard Credentials  While it’s too early to know, that suggests that HBS might
be planning to offer some kind of credential that can be used to
document a student’s successful completion of the course and
grasp of the material. Kenny wouldn’t comment, though such
testing is common in MOOCs. Students taking some of the courses
offered by the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School on
the Coursera platform, for example, can earn a “verified
certificate” indicating they have completed the course.
Coursera uses photos, photo ID and typing pattern recognition
software to confirm each student’s identification.  Harvard’s initiative will follow a major push into online
business education by Wharton. Last month, Wharton added three
new courses to its Coursera offering, making its entire first-year MBA curriculum available for free. A fourth course in
operations management, offered since September, rounds out the
first-year curriculum, and with five existing MBA electives
gives students much of what on campus students now pay about
$200,000 in tuition and expenses for.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louis Lavelle at 
 llavelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 