-- Massachusetts Weighs Puerto Rico Debt Impact on Mutual Funds
-- B y   F a n n i   K o s z e g
-- 2013-10-09T21:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/massachusetts-reviews-puerto-rico-debt-impact-on-mutual-funds.html
Massachusetts’ chief securities
regulator will open an inquiry into the impact of Puerto Rican
debt on the state’s mutual fund investors.  The investigation is meant to determine the extent of
investors’ risk tied to the island’s weakening municipal debt
obligations, Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth William F. Galvin said today in a statement.  “ Puerto Rico  is currently on the verge of insolvency and
many of its obligations are at or near junk rating,” according
to the statement. “The risks associated with its municipal debt
obligation are disproportionally high.”  Interest on debt issued by Puerto Rican governments is
typically tax-free across the U.S., and yields on some issues
topped 10 percent in recent weeks amid doubt about whether
investors will be repaid. The bonds’ high yields and tax-exempt
status make them popular with retail investors, according to the
statement.  Galvin sent letters of inquiry to  Fidelity Investments ,
OppenheimerFunds Inc., a unit of Massachusetts Mutual Life
Insurance Co., and UBS Financial Services. The intent is to
determine if and when investors were apprised of the risks of
investing in Puerto Rico.  “OppenheimerFunds has contacted the secretary’s office and
is cooperating fully with its inquiry,” the company said in an
e-mailed statement. Spokesmen for Fidelity and  UBS AG (UBSN)  declined
to comment.  Administrative Leave  UBS said last week that it put an employee on
administrative leave while the Zurich-based bank reviews loans
issued to clients. One brokerage customer said he was given
credit to buy risky bond funds holding the island’s government
debt.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market are
punishing Puerto Rico even after the nine-month-old
administration of Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla boosted
pension contributions and raised taxes to keep the territory’s
obligations from being cut to junk. His challenge is compounded
by a shrinking local economy.  Garcia Padilla, 42, of the Popular Democratic Party, took
office in January. He traveled to  New York  this week to discuss
his fiscal and economic initiatives with ratings companies.
Puerto Rico is graded one step above junk by the three major
rating firms, with a negative outlook, and is preparing to
borrow as much as $1.2 billion by year-end to balance budgets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fanni Koszeg in New York at 
 fkoszeg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  