-- Aussie Weakens as Jobs Growth Less Than Forecast; Kiwi Declines
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-10-10T06:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/aussie-dollar-remains-higher-as-rba-cut-bets-pared-before-jobs.html
Australia’s dollar weakened as
employers in the nation added fewer jobs than economists
forecast last month, offsetting the impact of a lower-than-expected unemployment rate.  The Aussie and New Zealand’s kiwi dollar led declines
against the greenback as U.S. Congressional leaders were said to
be open to a short-term increase in the nation’s debt limit.
Australia’s currency headed for its biggest drop this month
after the statistics bureau said the labor  participation rate 
declined to an almost seven-year low.  “Full-time jobs growth is only moderate at best and the
participation rate declined,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Singapore.
“That tempers my bullishness on the Aussie.”  The Australian dollar lost 0.4 percent to 94.10 U.S. cents
at 5:01 p.m. in Sydney after earlier rising as much as 0.3
percent. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar declined 0.7 percent to 82.48
U.S. cents.  Australia’s three-year bond yield reached 3.13 percent, the
most since March. The  10-year (GACGB10)  yield rose seven basis points to
4.16 percent, the highest close since Sept. 11.  Australian employers added 9,100 jobs in September,
government figures showed today, fewer than the 15,000 gain
estimated by economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The
 participation rate  fell to 64.9 percent from 65 percent the
previous month, the least since November 2006.  Jobless Rate  The  unemployment rate  dropped to 5.6 percent last month
from a four-year high of 5.8 percent in August, according to the
report. Analysts had forecast the figure would be unchanged.  “We view this report as mixed but we do not believe it
signals an improvement in the labor market,” Nomura Holdings
Inc. strategists Charles St-Arnaud and Martin Whetton wrote in
an e-mailed note to clients today. “Nevertheless, today’s
report dramatically reduces the likelihood of an imminent rate
cut and we now believe that the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will
remain on hold at the November meeting.”  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see an 88 percent chance policy makers will keep the benchmark
rate at a record-low 2.5 percent at their next gathering on Nov.
5, up from 75 percent odds a week earlier. There’s a 78 percent
probability the rate will remain unchanged by the end of the
year, according to the figures.  The U.S. currency rose against 12 of its 16 major peers.
House Republican and Senate Democratic leaders are open to a
short-term increase in the debt limit, said congressional aides
of both parties who spoke on condition of anonymity. The
movement comes after  House Democrats  met with President Barack
Obama at the White House. A small group of  House Republicans  are
scheduled to meet with the president today.  In  New Zealand , a manufacturing gauge by the Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. and Business NZ fell to 54.3 in September from 57.1
in the previous month, according to a report today.  The nation’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, gained five basis points to 3.52
percent, the highest close since Sept. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  