-- Aussie Trades Near 3-Week High Before Jobs, Yellen
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-10-09T05:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/aussie-trades-near-3-week-high-before-jobs-yellen-nomination.html
Australia’s dollar traded near the
highest in almost three weeks before data forecast to show
domestic job gains and after the White House said Federal
Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  will be nominated to head the
U.S. central bank.  The Aussie gained versus most major counterparts on
estimates a report tomorrow will show  payrolls  climbed last
month by the most in five months, while the  unemployment rate 
remained at a four-year high of 5.8 percent. The Australian and
New Zealand currencies pared earlier advances amid a continued
standoff among U.S. lawmakers that has kept the government
partially shut.  “If it’s very clear in the jobs numbers that the increase
is due to temporary workers during the election, the market will
likely see a temporary rise in the Aussie,” said Emma Lawson,
the Sydney-based senior currency strategist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. “But with the unemployment rate expected to
stay at 5.8 percent, I don’t think the impact on the currency
will be very long lasting.”  The Australian dollar added 0.1 percent to 94.34 U.S. cents
as of 4:41 p.m. in Sydney after earlier climbing as much as 0.3
percent. It touched 94.84 cents yesterday, the highest since
Sept. 19. New Zealand’s kiwi currency bought 82.88 U.S. cents,
little changed from yesterday, after rising as much as 0.4
percent.  Australia’s  10-year (GACGB10)  bond yield touched 4.11 percent, the
highest in more than three weeks. The yield on debt due in three
years rose to as much as 3.06 percent, a level unseen since
March. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, was little changed at 3.47 percent.  Payrolls Gain  Australian employers probably added 15,000  jobs  last month
after cutting 10,800 in August, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the data. That
would be biggest increase since April.  Consumer confidence  weakened 2.1 percent this month after
climbing 4.7 percent in September, according to a report today
from Westpac Banking Corp. and the Melbourne Institute.  With mining detracting from growth, the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia may need to hold down  interest rates  for an extended
period, Sydney-based money managers Adam Bowe and  Robert Mead 
wrote in an article today on the website of Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 27 percent chance the RBA will cut its record-low 2.5
percent benchmark to 2.25 percent or less by year-end, and 40
percent odds for a reduction by May.  Yellen Relief  Obama will announce Yellen’s nomination at the White House,
an official said in an e-mailed statement. Yellen has supported
the central bank’s unprecedented bond-buying program, which has
tended to debase the greenback.  “The expectation is that it would be Yellen,” NAB’s
Lawson said. “There might be just a little bit of relief now
that we know what’s going on.”  Obama said at a news conference yesterday he’s willing to
talk to Republicans about anything, including changes to his
health-care law, once lawmakers end the shutdown and increase
the U.S. debt limit. U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  insisted on
immediate negotiations with the president.  The world’s biggest economy will exhaust its borrowing
authority on Oct. 17 and will have about $30 billion in cash
after that. San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  estimated
on Oct. 3 a two-week shutdown would shave 0.25 percentage point
off fourth-quarter growth.  “The Aussie is hostage to U.S. dollar developments,” said
 Besa Deda , the chief economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in
Sydney. “Weaker U.S. growth means weaker world growth. That
means safe-haven flows and higher risk aversion, which generally
work against Aussie dollar strength.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  