-- Bangladesh Factory Fire Kills 7 as Safety Concerns Renewed
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h   a n d   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-10-10T00:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/bangladesh-factory-fire-kills-at-least-9-renewing-safety-fears.html
A fire at a clothing factory on the
outskirts of  Bangladesh ’s capital Dhaka killed at least seven
people, renewing concern that working conditions are unsafe in
the country’s $19 billion garment industry.  The death toll at Aswad Composite Mills Ltd. in Gazipur was
lowered from nine as reported earlier, Police Inspector Amir
Hossain told reporters last night, quoting rescuers who
retrieved seven bodies from the site of the Oct. 8 fire.  Aswad has supplied two Canadian companies, Loblaws Inc.,
owner of the  Joe Fresh  brand, and  Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC) , according to
shipping data provider  ImportGenius.com .  The fire comes after
an April collapse of a factory complex killed more than 1,100
people, the worst industrial disaster in the world’s second-largest garment-exporting country, which supplies retailers from
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to  Hennes & Mauritz AB. (HMB)   “It’s a very sad day,” Abdus Salam Murshedy, president of
the Exporters Association of Bangladesh, said by phone. “It
will be very difficult to do business with global retailers
after all these troubles coming one after another.”  Revised Toll  The Aswad factory also makes fabric for some Wal-Mart
suppliers, Megan Murphy, a spokeswoman for the company, said in
a statement.  Nafis Sikder, managing director of Aswad, said the fire was
an industrial accident that originated in the chimney of a
heating machine at the factory. He declined to name his
company’s customers.  The company will pay 500,000 taka ($6,400) in compensation
for each of the dead, and another 200,000 taka for each will
come from an insurance plan, he said at a media briefing.  In the last two years, Aswad, using an address in Gazipur,
shipped dozens of containers to customers including Hudson’s Bay
and Loblaws, according to ImportGenius.com.  Loblaws has seen documents that suggest some suppliers may
have outsourced production against company policy, spokeswoman
Julija Hunter said in an e-mailed statement. The retailer has a
“no-tolerance policy” over unauthorized outsourcing and is
investigating, Hunter said, adding that Loblaws is confident it
hasn’t placed any orders from Aswad.  Loblaws in May  announced  its commitment to sign the Accord
on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh and said at the time
it would stay in Bangladesh.  H&M, Primark  Hudson’s Bay said its last order was placed with Aswad in
October 2012 for delivery in April 2013.  “We had determined at that time that we would not be
placing subsequent orders with Aswad,” Tiffany Bourre, a
spokeswoman for the Toronto-based company, said in an e-mailed
statement.  H&M doesn’t have any direct business relationship with
Aswad, though the plant delivers fabric to a factory used by the
Swedish retailer, it said in a statement. A supplier of  Next Plc (NXT) 
obtained fabric from the Aswad mill, though the U.K. retailer
had no direct contact with the factory, it said by e-mail.  Primark, the budget fashion chain owned by  Associated
British Foods Plc (ABF) , said it placed its last order with the
factory in March and indicated it would place no more following
the identification of violations of its code of conduct and
management’s unwillingness to resolve these. A small amount of
outstanding orders was stored in the warehouse at the affected
factory awaiting shipment, a Primark spokeswoman said by e-mail.  Heating Machines  Aswad used to dye, knit and finish fabrics at the unit
where the fire started, Kalpona Akter, executive director of the
Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity, said by phone after
visiting the site.  “It seems the fire was sparked by heating machines and
flames leapt upward and spread to the top floor,” Akter said.
The top floor was badly burned and machines were damaged, she
said. Workers at the unit were unable to douse the fire as the
presence of highly flammable material caused it to spread fast,
Akter said, citing a stores officer.  Bangladesh’s garment industry expansion has been marred by
factories operated in buildings with poor electrical wiring, an
insufficient number of exits and little firefighting equipment.
That has put pressure on international retailers to improve  work
conditions .  Last month, thousands of garment factory workers staged
violent protests, seeking to more than double their monthly pay
to $104 and forcing about 400 of the country’s 5,000 garment
factories to close.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net ;
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  