-- Bank Indonesia Regulates Currency Hedging for Stable Rupiah
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-10-09T09:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/bank-indonesia-regulates-currency-hedging-to-stabilize-rupiah.html
Bank Indonesia  said it will regulate
currency hedging by individuals and companies, including state-owned firms, to help stabilize  Asia ’s most-volatile currency.  The central bank will require Indonesians and corporations
to present documents to show underlying economic activity, such
as international trade, foreign debt and investments, to conduct
hedging transactions with lenders, it said in a  statement  posted
on its website today. The amount and duration of the hedges will
be limited by the underlying activity, it said.  “There was previously no framework to guide currency
hedging,” said Tri Sulistianing Astuti, a foreign-exchange
dealer at PT Bank Rakyat  Indonesia  in Jakarta. “With increased
awareness, both banks and companies won’t be hesitant to provide
and take out hedges, which will reduce rupiah volatility as
companies can better organize their dollar demand.”  The rupiah has fallen 16 percent against the greenback this
year, the most among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as Indonesia’s record current-account deficit and
signs the  Federal Reserve  was preparing to cut stimulus deterred
investors. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options more than
doubled to 15.73 percent, the highest in Asia.  “This rule was issued as the regulatory framework for
economic players in mitigating market risk amid the dynamics of
the domestic foreign-currency market,” Bank Indonesia said in
the statement.  State-Owned Firms  The State-Owned Enterprises Ministry on Sept. 25 said
 government-held firms  can hedge against currency swings. Any
gains or losses made from the hedging transactions will be
accounted as company profit or cost, Difi Johansyah, a Bank
Indonesia spokesman, said in Jakarta today.  Spot trading now accounts for an average of 73 percent of
domestic foreign-exchange transactions and for all activity by
state-owned firms, Johansyah said. The monetary authority
expects the proportion of swaps and forwards trading to increase
following the introduction of the new rules, he said.  Reference Rate  Bank Indonesia set its first  spot benchmark  for the rupiah
in May to develop the onshore currency derivatives market by
providing a reliable reference to settle the contracts,
Johansyah said May 20. The central bank sets the fixing by
compiling realized interbank transactions up to 9:45 a.m. local
time and releasing the rate at 10 a.m.  The gauge competes with the  daily fixing  set by the
Association of Banks in  Singapore , which is used to settle non-deliverable forwards. The association changed how it sets the
benchmark to using realized trades, from compiling submissions
from lenders, it said in a June 14 statement. The Monetary
Authority of Singapore began a review into potential
manipulation of the NDF references in September last year.  The rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 11,533 per dollar as of 4:07
p.m. in Jakarta today, according to prices from local banks. The
currency’s offshore one-month non-deliverable forwards declined
0.2 percent to 11,313.  The Association of Banks in Singapore set its rupiah fixing
at 11,214 per dollar today, 2.9 percent stronger than Bank
Indonesia’s benchmark, which was 11,540 per dollar. The offshore
reference was on average 0.6 percent stronger than the onshore
rate in September and 1 percent weaker in August. NDF contracts,
unlike currency forwards, are settled in dollars. Who pays and
how much is determined at the end of the contract in reference
to a fixing.  Indonesia posted a current-account deficit of $9.8 billion
in the second quarter, or about 4.4 percent of gross domestic
product, the biggest in data compiled by Bloomberg going back to
1989. The shortfall may be 3.4 percent of GDP in 2013, Bank
Indonesia Governor Agus Martowardojo said yesterday after
holding the benchmark  interest rate  at 7.25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  