-- Batista Said to Hire Quinn Emanuel as OGX’s Default Looms
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-10-09T00:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/batista-said-to-hire-quinn-emanuel-as-ogx-s-default-looms.html
Former billionaire  Eike Batista  hired
U.S. law firm  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP  to represent
him as his oil company considers filing for bankruptcy
protection, two people familiar with the matter said.  Quinn Emanuel  was hired to work on restructuring and
potential litigation matters in the U.S. for Batista, said the
people, who asked not to be named because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  is considering filing
for bankruptcy protection by the end of this month, two people
with direct knowledge of the matter said last week. The filing
would be done in Rio de Janeiro where OGX is based, said the
people, asking not to be identified as discussions are private.
While Batista is negotiating with creditors to avoid the same
process for shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the most likely outcome
is that both companies will seek legal protection, they said.  The company, the centerpiece of Batista’s commodities
group, missed a $45 million Oct. 1 bond payment that puts
Batista on the brink of Latin America’s biggest corporate
default after  oil deposits  he valued at $1 trillion turned out
to be commercial failures.  A representative for EBX, Batista’s holding company, didn’t
immediately respond to phone and e-mail messages seeking comment
on Quinn Emmanuel’s hiring today after regular business hours in
Rio de Janeiro.  Chapter 15  Companies based outside the U.S. can file for court
protection in the U.S. under  Chapter 15  of U.S. bankruptcy law.
Companies use Chapter 15 to protect their U.S. assets while they
reorganize operations under the jurisdiction of a foreign
bankruptcy court.S  In U.S. bankruptcies, the owner of a company sometimes
hires lawyers who are separate from the company’s attorneys.
When the Los Angeles Dodgers filed for bankruptcy, the owner at
the time, real estate developer  Frank McCourt , hired his own
lawyers who represented his interests in negotiating the $2
billion sale of the Major League Baseball team. A different
group of lawyers represented the team itself.  Quinn Emmanuel specializes in corporate litigation. The
firm’s bankruptcy lawyers have worked on litigation tied to the
bankruptcies of energy trader Enron Corp., futures trader Refco
Inc.  and oil-trader SemGroup LP, according to the firm’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  