-- Bernanke Trounces Tea Party as Mortgage Bonds Advance
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-10-09T09:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/bernanke-trounces-tea-party-as-mortgage-bonds-advance.html
Relative yields on U.S. government-backed mortgage bonds are at about the lowest in almost five
months as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke proves more
important to the market than Tea Party politicians.  Yields on benchmark Fannie Mae securities dropped last week
to 1.28 percentage points more than an average of 5- and 10-year
Treasury rates, the narrowest since May 22, according to
Bloomberg index data. The spreads, which advanced yesterday to
1.31, have fallen from a 15-month high of 1.51 reached in July,
two months before the Fed surprised investors by maintaining its
$40 billion of monthly purchases of housing debt.  Investors from TCW Group Inc. to Prologue Capital Inc. say
it’s no time to bet against the $5.3 trillion market even as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc analysts warn the
securities are too expensive and the Treasury Department
cautions that spreads could jump if Congress doesn’t act soon to
expand the nation’s debt limit. Speculation is growing that the
Fed will further extend bond  purchases  that represent about 70
percent of new issuance and have left it with $500 billion more
of the debt than when a stalemate roiled markets in 2011.  Bigger Dose  “The messier it gets, the larger the markets believe the
dose of medicine from the Fed will be,” said Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage bonds at Los Angeles-based TCW, which oversees
about $130 billion. “We just saw their willingness to behave
that way by not tapering.”  U.S. money managers that own about $860 billion of agency
mortgage debt will need to see more evidence that the central
bank is gearing up to scale back its purchases before they cut
allocations to the market, according to Nomura Securities
International analysts led by Ohmsatya Ravi.  While the investors hold $150 billion less than when the
Fed started expanding its bond buying 13 months ago, they’re
maintaining a so-called neutral position that’s consistent with
the percentages found in benchmark bond indexes, the analysts
said in an Oct. 4 report.  If the showdown between President  Barack Obama  and Tea
Party-backed Republicans escalates to the same degree as the
2011 fight that prompted Standard & Poor’s to strip the U.S. of
its AAA rating, mortgage bonds would probably lag behind
Treasuries in “a flight-to-quality rally,” said Noah Estrin, a
portfolio manager at Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund
Prologue Capital, which oversees about $2.3 billion. For now,
the battle is now boosting their appeal, he said.  ‘More Defensive’  “The government shutdown and debt-ceiling debate is
obviously going to keep the Fed a little more defensive,”
Estrin said. “While I thought they were going to taper this
year, I’m becoming more skeptical on that.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost to protect against
losses on corporate bonds in the U.S. rose for a second day to a
more than three-week high. Deutsche Telekom AG,  Germany ’s
biggest phone company, is planning to sell $5.6 billion of  T-Mobile USA Inc. (TMUS)  notes. Hudson’s Bay Co. set the rate on a $2.3
billion of loans backing its acquisition of Saks Inc.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, fell 0.98 basis point to 11.88 basis points,
the lowest this year. The gauge typically narrows when investors
favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when they seek
the perceived safety of government securities.  Credit Benchmarks  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 2
basis points to a mid-price of 84.5 basis points, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest since Sept. 13
in data that adjusts for the effects of the market’s shift to a
new version of the index last month.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell 0.8 to 99.8 at 10:45 a.m. in
 London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index
of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  increased 1.8 to
151.  The indexes typically increase as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  were the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers
yesterday, accounting for 5.1 percent of the volume of dealer
trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The New York-based telephone carrier raised $49 billion on Sept.
11 in the largest corporate bond issue ever.  T-Mobile Bonds  The debt being sold by Deutsche Telekom, which  controls  T-Mobile, is part of an $11.2 billion private placement of notes
T-Mobile issued to the company in April as part of its merger
with MetroPCS Communications Inc., according to a regulatory
 filing  yesterday.  The offering includes $1.25 billion in 6.542 percent notes
due in 2020 and $1.25 billion of 6.731 percent securities that
mature in 2022, according to a person with knowledge of the
offering who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t
set. T-Mobile said in a filing earlier that the company planned
to offer a total of $3.1 billion.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
rose 0.01 cent to 97.51 cents on the dollar. The measure, which
tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged
loans, has returned 3.32 percent this year.  Hudson’s Bay  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk bonds are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
S&P.  Hudson’s Bay (HBAYF) ,  Canada ’s largest department-store operator,
will pay 3.75 percentage points more than Libor for a seven-year, $2 billion term loan and 7.25 percent more than the
benchmark for a $300 million junior loan, according to a person
with knowledge of the offering. Both borrowings will have a 1
percent minimum on Libor, said the person, who asked not to be
identified without authorization to speak publicly.  In  emerging markets , relative yields narrowed 1 basis point
to 346 basis points, or 3.46 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index . The measure has averaged 311.7
this year.  ‘Close to Home’  U.S. agency mortgage-bond analysts at JPMorgan led by Matt Jozoff, the top-ranked team for the debt in this year’s
Institutional Investor poll, and Barclays’s No. 3 rated
researchers led by Nicholas Strand recommend that investors take
an “underweight” position in the notes, or a smaller
percentage than is contained in benchmark indexes. The spreads
are too tight to be sustainable with the Fed set to eventually
slow and then end purchases, they each said in Oct. 4 reports.  Relative yields on the Fannie Mae debt are currently about
0.15 percentage point less than the 1.46 percentage-point
average over the past decade and compare with a three-month low
in May of 1.14 percentage points, according to Bloomberg data.  Nomura’s second-ranked team says investors should remain
“neutral” for now, with the odds that the central bank
postpones a stimulus reduction until next year “gradually
increasing.” Prologue’s Estrin said he’s generally maintaining
a neutral position, while Whalen said TCW is “as close to home
right now as I can remember us being in the last few years.”  The political standoff is creating an additional danger,
according to the JPMorgan analysts.  “Most risky assets (including mortgages) would
significantly underperform in the near-term in the unlikely
event of a default” by the government, they wrote in the report
last week.  ‘Political Brinksmanship’  The Treasury Department, in a  paper  released Oct. 3, cited
the widening of mortgage spreads in 2011 in saying that
“political brinksmanship that engenders even the prospect of a
default can be disruptive to financial markets and American
businesses and families.”  As U.S. lawmakers fought over the debt ceiling two years
ago and S&P then downgraded the government to AA- on Aug. 5,
spreads on the Fannie Mae securities climbed to a more than two-year high of 1.9 percentage points the next week, from 1.57
percentage points in July 2011, Bloomberg data show.  “If the widening of mortgage spreads that resulted from
the debt ceiling debate were to take place now, when yields on
Treasury securities have been rising, the result would be higher
mortgage rates that would restrain the housing market and
household spending,” the Treasury said in its report.  Treasury Yields  The report didn’t note the drop in government-debt yields
during the standoff this year, with yields on 10-year notes, a
benchmark for everything from corporate bonds to mortgage rates,
reaching a two-month low of 2.59 percent on Oct. 3. Investors
from Estrin to Christopher Sullivan, who oversees $2.2 billion
as chief investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit
Union in New York, said that a default may cause Treasury yields
to decline further, as they did in August 2011.  Borrowing costs are already paring a jump that pushed them
to a more than two-year high in August. The average rate offered
on new 30-year fixed home loans fell to 4.22 percent last week,
after reaching 4.58 percent on Aug. 22 from 3.35 percent in
early May, according to Freddie Mac surveys.  While the increase in rates choked off most homeowner
refinancing, the Fed’s purchases are accounting for a growing
share of issuance with sales of new debt slowing. Monthly
issuance is set to fall to $70 billion to $75 billion, down from
an average of about $150 billion since last June, according to
Morgan Stanley analysts including Vipul Jain.  Fed Reinvestments  In addition to the $40 billion of bonds the Fed adds to its
balance sheet each month, it has also been purchasing $31
billion under a program in which it reinvests proceeds from
previous purchases, a figure set to fall to $10 billion to $15
billion with as prepayments decline, Morgan Stanley estimated in
a report last month.  The Fed began the reinvestment program in September 2011,
after S&P’s U.S. downgrade roiled markets. The central bank’s
additions to its holdings since September 2012 have expanded its
portfolio to $1.34 trillion, surpassing a previous peak of $1.13
trillion reached in June 2010 after an earlier round of buying
initiated during the financial crisis sparked by Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s failure five years ago.  Investors now have less to sell. In the week before the
Fed’s Sept. 18 announcement that it would maintain the current
pace of its purchases, about 20 percent of investors surveyed by
JPMorgan were “overweight,” the lowest level in two years.
That was down from more than 60 percent before the start of Fed
purchases and 50 percent in mid-2011.  ‘Paid to Wait’  Money managers, banks, overseas investors, real-estate
investment trusts and government-sponsored companies such as
Fannie Mae have all reduced their holdings during the current
round of purchases, even as the market grew by $170 billion,
according to Nomura.  William Irving, a fixed-income manager at Fidelity
Investments, which oversees $1.8 trillion, is now mostly
avoiding the debt, he said. Along with historically tight
spreads based on their expected payments over the long term,
several types of mortgage bonds return less each month than
similar-duration Treasuries, after accounting for expected rate
volatility, he said.  “I’m paid to wait” before investing, he said in a
telephone interview from Merrimack, New Hampshire. At the same
time, “the risk is asymmetric, with there being more potential
for spread widening than spread tightening,” he said.  That type of positioning is why it will be hard for spreads
to widen so long as the Fed is buying, Prologue’s Estrin said.  “The sellers are exhausted,” he said. “There’s just not
enough mortgages right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  