-- Bipartisan Congressional Leaders Open to Short Debt Raise
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-10-09T22:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/bipartisan-congressional-leaders-open-to-short-debt-raise.html
House Republican and Senate
Democratic leaders are open to a short-term increase in the
nation’s debt limit, said congressional aides of both parties
who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss strategy. The
steps mark the first movement toward averting a U.S. default.  Republicans haven’t decided how long an extension they
would support, whether it would include policy conditions and
how to advance it through the House, a House Republican aide
said. Republican leaders have been calling party members to talk
about ideas and all House Republicans are scheduled to meet at
10 a.m. tomorrow.  Senate Democratic leaders would be open to a short-term
increase in the debt ceiling, a Senate Democratic aide said
today. Democrats would insist that any subsequent debt-limit
increases wouldn’t require agreement by the parties on long-term
fiscal and health-care policy.  If Republicans move toward a vote, they’re choosing an
option President  Barack Obama  opened yesterday. He said he would
accept a short-term  debt limit  increase and an agreement to end
the partial government shutdown that started Oct. 1 and then
enter broader fiscal negotiations with Republicans.  Top House Democrats said after a meeting at the White House
with Obama that they would be open to a short-term debt-limit
increase if the alternative were default.  ‘What Path’  “They’re not getting anything for it and we haven’t seen
an offer,” said House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a
California Democrat. “When we see them offer one, we’ll see
what path they think that takes us down.”  The potential fight would be over Obama’s insistence that
he wouldn’t agree to tie policy conditions to raising the debt
limit. Republicans have been talking about attaching a long list
of party priorities, such as cuts in entitlement programs,
changes to the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,
and approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline, to a
debt-ceiling increase.  Senate Democrats’ preference is a proposal by Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid to push the next debt-limit fight
into 2015, without policy conditions. Reid introduced a bill
yesterday, setting up a test vote for later this week.  Borrowing Authority  If the U.S. doesn’t raise the  debt  limit by Oct. 17, the
country’s borrowing authority will lapse. The government will
have $30 billion plus income revenue to pay its bills and would
miss scheduled payments between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according
to the Congressional Budget Office.  The movement comes as House Democrats met with Obama at the
White House today. A small group of House Republicans are
scheduled to meet with the president tomorrow.  “Business leaders are begging us to do the right thing and
to do it now,” Reid said on the Senate floor today. “The time
for misleading rhetoric is through and the time for responsible
leadership is here.”  House Speaker John Boehner yesterday rejected Obama’s idea
of passing a debt-ceiling increase now and negotiating later on
broader fiscal issues and the health-care law. Boehner labeled
that “unconditional surrender” and instead sought immediate
talks with Obama.  Advancing a debt-limit bill without major policy conditions
through the House could prove difficult and might require
Boehner to seek Democratic votes. Republicans control a 232-200
majority in the House.  ‘Another Downgrade’  “If you had a clean debt-ceiling increase without any kind
of reforms to control spending that would probably lead to
another downgrade in our credit ratings,” Representative Steve Scalise, a Louisiana Republican and head of the Republican Study
Committee, told reporters today. The group includes lawmakers
who advocate smaller government.  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX)  climbed 0.1 percent at 4
p.m. in New York.  Rates on Treasury bills due on Oct. 17 rose 20 basis points
to 0.478 percent at 5 p.m. in New York. They were negative as
recently as Sept. 26. The benchmark 10-year yield rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.66 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  “The current political deadlock in the United States is
needlessly putting at risk the stability and growth not only of
the U.S. but also the world economy,”  Angel Gurria , the
secretary-general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development, said in a statement today. “We still see the
probability of failing to raise the debt ceiling as low, but as
the government shutdown drags on, the level of concern is
ratcheting up.”  Won’t Negotiate  At a White House news conference yesterday, the president
again insisted that he wouldn’t negotiate under the risk of
default or a government shutdown, comparing Republicans to
hostage-takers and extortionists.  Obama wouldn’t answer directly when asked if he would make
sure that bondholders are paid first if Congress doesn’t act. He
said the government was “exploring all contingencies.”  Giving priority to interest payments would prevent the U.S.
from defaulting on its debt while requiring the government to
balance its budget immediately, an austerity step that House
Republicans would impose over 10 years.  The 11 Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee sent a
letter to Obama today saying that the president’s warnings about
a potential default are “unproductive and misguided.”  The absence of a debt-limit increase “doesn’t mean there’s
a default,” said Senator Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma Republican.
“That means the debt limit hasn’t gone up. They’re two
different things,” he said. There won’t be a default, he said.
“Period.”  Lew Testifying  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew is scheduled to testify
before the Finance panel at 8 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  The government shutdown started Oct. 1 after Republicans
insisted that further funding for many programs must be tied to
a one-year delay in the mandate that individuals who lack health
insurance purchase it.  Obama and Senate Democrats refused, and the resulting
furloughs and agency shutdowns have slowed mortgage closings,
small-business loans and nutrition assistance to poor mothers.
Some programs, such as Social Security, continue uninterrupted.  In Congress this week, the House so far isn’t planning to
vote on a bill that would include a debt-ceiling increase.
Boehner outlined proposals last month that would tie party
priorities to the debt limit before that idea ran into
objections from hard-liners who wanted to focus on changing the
health law in the shutdown fight.  Oct. 17  That inaction shifts attention to the Senate, where
Democrats are trying to pass a bill that would put pressure on
Boehner as the Oct. 17 deadline draws closer.  Democrats, who control 54 seats in the 100-member chamber,
would need the support of at least six Republicans on procedural
votes to pass their bill.  The bill would suspend the debt ceiling through Dec. 31,
2014. Because the Treasury Department can use what are called
extraordinary measures to stave off default, another increase
wouldn’t be needed until sometime in 2015. The previous debt-limit suspension expired on May 18 and the extraordinary
measures are lasting five months.  Some Senate Republicans, including Susan Collins of  Maine ,
Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia , Lisa Murkowski of  Alaska  and Lamar Alexander of  Tennessee , didn’t rule out backing the Democrats’
plan. They said they must first see details.  One Republican senator -- Mark Kirk of  Illinois  -- said he
would support a “clean” debt-ceiling measure.  The House continued a series of bipartisan votes to fund
narrow pieces of the government, including the Food and Drug
Administration and military death benefits. The House is now
scheduled to be in session on Saturday, Oct. 12.  Obama and Senate Democrats reject the piecemeal approach,
saying Republicans shouldn’t get to pick and choose politically
popular items.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  