-- Blackstone Infrastructure Spinoff Stonepeak Raises $1.65 Billion
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-10-09T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/blackstone-infrastructure-spinoff-stonepeak-raises-1-65-billion.html
Stonepeak Infrastructure Partners , a
former unit of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  that manages more than $1
billion, said it raised $1.65 billion for its first standalone
fund to invest in assets including utilities and energy.  Stonepeak Infrastructure Fund I, which initially sought $1
billion, was oversubscribed, the asset manager said in an e-mailed statement. Investors include TIAA-CREF, which provides
retirement accounts for teachers and non-profit organizations,
pension funds and other institutions in  North America ,  Europe 
and  Asia , it said.  Global investors are seeking higher returns through
alternative investments including real estate and infrastructure
in response to low  interest rates , a weaker jobs outlook and
stagnant economic growth, AMP Capital Investors said in its
institutional investor research  report  in May. Institutions had
$6.5 trillion invested in alternative assets by the end of 2011,
following a five-year growth rate that was seven times that for
traditional asset classes, according to a May 2012 McKinsey &
Co.  report .  “Infrastructure and other real assets are an increasingly
core element of investors’ asset allocation plans,” Trent Vichie, senior managing director of New York-based Stonepeak,
said in the statement. “We are seeing a strong flow of
attractive potential investments, and converting this pipeline
into a select number of great, lower risk infrastructure
investments will be our sole focus for the foreseeable future.”  The fund will also invest in water, power and
transportation assets, it said. Stonepeak invests in North
American infrastructure assets, according to its website.  IFC, GIC  An International Finance Corp. unit and GIC Pte,
 Singapore ’s sovereign wealth fund, were the anchor investors in
a $1.2 billion infrastructure equity fund, IFC, the  World Bank ’s
investment arm, said in a statement yesterday. The new fund
exceeded its target of $1 billion and will invest in sectors
including power, transport, utilities and telecommunications in
 emerging markets , managed by teams in Washington and Singapore,
IFC said.  Macquarie Group Ltd. raised $1.3 billion from institutional
investors to invest in North American infrastructure assets, the
Australian Financial Review reported last month.  Stonepeak was founded by Vichie and Michael Dorrell, both
of whom joined Macquarie in the late 1990s. Both moved to
Blackstone, the world’s biggest alternative-asset manager, in
2008 where they were co-heads of the infrastructure investment
division.  The firm sees about $1 trillion of investment opportunities
in the North American “middle market infrastructure sector,”
which includes companies or projects needing equity investments
of between $50 million and $200 million, Stonepeak said. It has
pending investments in Magnolia LNG, a Louisiana-based liquefied
natural gas export facility, and Paradigm Midstream, a Bakken,
North Dakota-based energy pipeline and storage company, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  