-- BOE Says Mortgage Availability, Demand Increased Significantly
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-10-09T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/boe-says-mortgage-availability-demand-increased-significantly.html
U.K. banks boosted mortgage
availability in the third quarter as a strengthening economy
drove demand for property, according a  Bank of England  report.  Lenders reported a “significant increase” in availability
in the three months through early September, while access to
mortgages with a loan-to-value ratio greater than 75 percent
also rose, the BOE said today in its Credit Conditions survey.
The survey also showed that demand for mortgages rose and
spreads on loan rates “narrowed significantly for a fourth
consecutive quarter.”  The U.K. government started the second phase of its Help to
Buy program this week, three months earlier than scheduled. With
 house prices  and mortgage lending picking up in recent months,
the measure aimed at aiding prospective homebuyers has fueled
criticism it may stoke a housing bubble. An index of home values
rose to the most in more than a decade in September, according
to the Royal Chartered Institute of Housing.  The BOE said the increase in mortgage availability “was
driven by market-share objectives, while lenders reported little
impact on availability from changes to their risk appetite.”
Banks’ credit-scoring criteria and maximum LTV ratios were
little changed in the third quarter, it said.  The BOE survey showed that banks’ willingness to offer
loans with an LTV ratio greater than 90 percent was little
changed in the past three months. More banks expect to lend
above that level in the fourth quarter under the Help to Buy
scheme, the BOE said.  Defaults and losses on mortgages fell significantly in the
quarter, according to the central bank’s survey.  On corporate credit, the BOE said lenders reported that
availability increased “slightly” in the third quarter for
both small and large companies. Demand for credit from large
companies was little changed in the period, while demand from
small- and medium-sized enterprises picked up, it said.  “Lenders expected a further slight expansion in overall
credit availability in the fourth quarter, with increased across
all firm sizes,” the central bank said. “Lenders saw an
improved economic outlook as a significant driver of the
prospective increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  