-- Booker Finds Lonegan Shedding Also-Ran Status in N.J. Senate Bid
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/booker-finds-lonegan-shedding-also-ran-status-in-n-j-senate-bid.html
Steve Lonegan, who’s running for  U.S.
Senate  in New Jersey, said fellow Republicans had “guts” to
shut down the federal government. He’d be happy, he says, if his
epitaph proclaims him “the guy who dismantled the IRS.”  Lonegan, 57, embraced by  Tea Party  Republicans for opposing
abortion and government surveillance, is running in a state that
President  Barack Obama  carried by 17 percentage points in 2012.
Polls show Lonegan gaining on Newark Mayor Cory Booker -- the
Democrat he calls Obama’s “Hollywood stand-in” -- in the race
to finish the term of Senator  Frank Lautenberg , who died in
June. The winner must run again next year.  Their nine-week post-primary dash will conclude in an Oct.
16 special election. During that time, Booker, a darling of Wall
Street executives and West Coast technology entrepreneurs, has
raised $11.5 million, more than eight times Lonegan’s $1.36
million. Booker’s campaign, though, has suffered from
accusations that he spends too much time out of state and is
more focused on the national spotlight than on New Jersey.  “Part of Lonegan’s message has resonated with a subsection
of white suburban voters, and maybe they’re out to let Booker
know, ‘We’re still here,’” said Matt Hale, an associate
professor of political science at  Seton Hall University  in South
Orange. “Voters are looking at Booker and saying they aren’t
going to anoint anyone.”  Gap Narrows  The race shows how a non-mainstream candidate in a state
that hasn’t elected a Republican to the U.S. Senate since 1972
tightened a contest that just two months ago, had Quinnipiac
University polling director  Maurice Carroll  saying that Booker
can “start looking for a Washington apartment.” In an Aug. 7
 poll  by the Hamden, Connecticut-based school, Booker had a 25
percentage point lead over Lonegan among registered voters.  A Sept. 24 Quinnipiac  poll  of likely voters had Booker with
a 12 point lead. Because the two surveys tallied different
voting groups, they aren’t comparable. Still, the latest figures
were “closer than expected,” Carroll said.  Booker, 44, a prolific Twitter user, has tried to portray
himself as a new kind of politician who would bring change to
Washington. His efforts to add development and reduce crime in
New Jersey’s largest city lured investments from  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and hedge-fund managers including
 Bill Ackman  and  Leon Cooperman .  On Attack  His campaign has faced questions from Lonegan about his
record in Newark, stake in an Internet startup and frequent
travels for speeches. Booker also found himself defending
private messages he exchanged earlier this year with an Oregon
stripper who revealed them, saying he communicates with people
of all different lifestyles. His sexuality was also the subject
of news stories. Booker, who is single and has never been
married, has said he likes women. When asked this year about his
sexual orientation, he declined to answer, saying it shouldn’t
matter, the Washington Post reported in August.  While Booker focused on his own record early on, more
recently he has increased attacks on Lonegan.  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s super-political action
committee this week put $1 million into the race to tout Booker
as a mayor who’s worked with both parties and business leaders
to “get things done.” The ads come as the federal government
shutdown that began Oct. 1 continues amid a budget impasse.
Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Bogota English  Lonegan, who is legally blind, failed in bids for the U.S.
House of Representatives in 1998 and for governor in 2005 and
2009. From 1996 to 2008 he was mayor of Bogota, a Democratic-leaning borough of 8,000 people six miles (10 kilometers) west
of Manhattan. He used the job as a platform for smaller
government, successfully suing the state in 2003 to require
voter approval of bond sales.  In 2006, Lonegan gained national media attention when he
demanded the removal of a Spanish-language McDonald’s Corp.
billboard in town and pushed to make English its official
language. That year he became state director of Americans for
Prosperity, a small-government group funded by billionaire
industrialists Davidand  Charles Koch . He left that job in June
to focus on his Senate bid.  The August primary and October special election for
Lautenberg’s seat were scheduled by Governor  Chris Christie , a
Republican seeking re-election in November. Lonegan won the
Republican primary with 79 percent of the vote. Whoever wins
next week must run in 2014 when Lautenberg’s term expires.  Acclaimed Endorsers  Until recently, Booker was considered a shoo-in for the
seat long held by Lautenberg, a five-term Democrat. A Rhodes
Scholar and Yale University-educated lawyer who moved to Newark
in 1996, he spoke at the 2012 Democratic National Convention and
helped lead its platform committee. Booker gained national
attention last year for saving a neighbor from a fire and for
living on  food stamps  for a week to show the difficulty of
relying on the government-assistance program.  Booker was endorsed by Obama, and several celebrities have
given financial backing and campaign assistance, including  Oprah Winfrey  and actress Eva Longoria. The Star-Ledger of Newark,
 Philadelphia Inquirer  and Asbury Park Press newspapers endorsed
him. Lonegan has been endorsed by Christie, as well as U.S.
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and
2008 Republican vice-presidential candidate Sarah Palin.  Clear Differences  “The choice for New Jerseyans is clear,” Lonegan said on
Oct. 4 after the first of two debates. “The guy who’s going to
go down and fight against big government and fight for
individual liberty -- that’s me -- or the guy who’s going to
join President Obama in his attack on our health care, the
explosion of government, more corporate welfare and more
government reliance.”  At an Oct. 1 campaign rally in Smithville, Lonegan told the
crowd that Booker favored a $1.4 trillion tax increase on small
business, sought higher welfare enrollment “on the backs of
taxpayers” and supported domestic surveillance of phone and e-mail by the U.S. National Security Agency. Booker, he said,
backed the Internal Revenue Service’s “abuse of power” and
would “disarm every American.”  Booker said during the debate that government shouldn’t be
combing through the records of citizens and that he supports
limits on domestic spying. He told reporters afterward that
Lonegan would “take what’s wrong with Washington right now and
make it worse.” He called Lonegan an extremist who’s out of
line with the moderate members of his own party.  “This is a really opportune time for this election,”
Booker said. “Will New Jersey give an endorsement to the Tea
Party and the hijacking of America’s federal government? Or will
they say enough of this? Ultimately, it will be a referendum on
the Tea Party in Washington.”  Unprecedented Election  While Booker is winning with women, he and Lonegan are even
in support from men, Quinnipiac found. A third of New Jersey
registered voters say Lonegan is too conservative, while a
similar percentage say Booker is too liberal.  Booker continues to enjoy a “comfortable lead,” Carroll
said.  Brigid Harrison , a professor of law and government at
 Montclair State University , said it’s not realistic to assume
Lonegan will win in a state where voters prefer Republican
candidates to come from the centrist mold.  Because it’s an unprecedented election on a Wednesday night
in October, turnout is hard to call, Harrison said.  “My sense is not that we’re feeling an enormous amount of
passion and enthusiasm for Lonegan’s campaign,” she said.
“People are choosing an alternative to Booker, but probably
when faced with the choice of going and voting for Steve Lonegan
versus staying at home, you’re much more likely to see that
support being very soft.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  