-- Brazil Lifts Selic to 9.5% from 9% in World's Longest Streak
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-10-09T23:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/brazil-extends-record-rate-lift-as-inflation-outlook-worsens-1-.html
Brazil ’s central bank raised its 
main  interest rate  for a fifth straight time, the longest 
stretch of increases in the world, as the weakening real hampers
efforts to slow inflation.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously to raise the benchmark Selic to 9.5 percent from 9
percent, as forecast by all 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Policy makers, repeating language used in their August decision,
said the increase will ensure slower inflation next year. They
have raised borrowing costs by 225 basis points, or 2.25
percentage points, since April.  Officials this year have lifted borrowing costs the most
among 49 economies tracked by Bloomberg, as they try to slow
inflation that has remained above the 4.5 percent midpoint of
the target in the past three years. The real’s decline in the
past six months, the biggest amid major currencies, prompted
analysts to forecast Tombini will fail to ensure consumer price
increases ease next year.  “Inflation is elevated and well above target,” said
 Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco Mizuho do Brasil SA.
“There are still risks from a weaker real, which can pressure
inflation in the next few months.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose one basis point to 10.09
percent. The real increased 0.2 percent to 2.2073 per dollar.  Persisting Inflation  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA index, rose 5.86
percent in  September (BZPIIPCY) , the national statistics agency said today.
It was the slowest annual increase in nine months. The central
bank targets inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points. Monthly inflation quickened to 0.35 percent,
the fastest pace in four months.  Persisting inflation in areas such as services and an
expansionary fiscal policy mean the consumer price slowdown
won’t last, according to  John Welch , macro strategist at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  “We think the latest downdraft is administrative and
seasonal,” Welch said by e-mail before the central bank
announcement. “The proposed 2014 budget shows further loosening
and state and municipal governments have eased on the margin.”  The Brazilian government’s 2014 budget proposal entails
spending 1.04 trillion reais, a 12 percent increase from
approved expenditures this year. The central bank said last
month there is room for the fiscal policy to become neutral.  Pass-Through  Brazil is monitoring currency pass-through and will seek
2014 inflation as close as possible to target, Tombini said in
an Oct. 2 interview. There is still work to be done on
inflation, the central bank’s director for economic policy,
Carlos Hamilton, told reporters two days earlier.  Policy makers started raising rates in April, after holding
borrowing costs at a record low from October to April. The
increase is 75 basis points more than  Indonesia ’s, the only
other major economy tracked by Bloomberg that has elevated its
key rate this year.  The central bank on Aug. 22 said it will offer $3 billion
in  currency swap  and credit lines per week through December in a
bid to buoy the real, which had reached a nearly five-year low.
While the real has since rebounded by 10.3 percent, it is still
down 10.6 percent in the past six months.  The weaker real prompted policy makers last week to raise
their 2014 inflation estimate to 5.7 percent from 5.2 percent.
Policy makers based their forecast on a year-end Selic at 9.75
percent.  Economic Growth  While Brazil’s second quarter economic  growth  exceeded
expectations, there are signs that economic activity is slowing
in the third quarter. Industrial production in August was
unchanged after dropping 2.4 percent in July, and  economic
activity  in July fell 0.3 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week forecast growth
will slow in the second half and cut Brazil’s 2014 growth
outlook to 2.5 percent from 3.2 percent.  “Growth has leveled off,” Flavio Serrano, senior
economist at Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento, said before
today’s decision.  Central bank rate increases have not prevented inflation
expectations from deteriorating.  Analysts forecast consumer price increases will accelerate
to 6 percent in 2014 from 5.8 percent in 2013, according to the
median estimate in a Oct. 4 central bank survey. On April 19,
two days after the tightening cycle started, economists
predicted prices would rise 5.7 percent this year and next.  Traders are betting the central bank will raise the Selic
as high as 11.25 percent next year, swap rates show.  “The main problem now isn’t inflation this year, but
rather in 2014,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual
Investimento, said by phone before today’s decision. “The
central bank is losing because inflation is remaining
elevated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  