-- Brazil to Extend World-Record Rate Lift as Price Outlook Worsens
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-10-09T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/brazil-to-extend-world-record-rate-lift-as-price-outlook-worsens.html
Brazil’s central bank probably will
increase the benchmark  interest rate  for a fifth straight
meeting as a weaker currency threatens to stoke inflation and
undermine the world’s biggest tightening cycle.  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini will raise the benchmark Selic rate to 9.50 percent from
9 percent today, according to all 49 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Central bankers have raised borrowing costs by 175
basis points, or 1.75 percentage points, since April, the most
this year among 49 world economies tracked by Bloomberg. The
bank is scheduled to announce the decision after 6:00 p.m. local
time.  The real’s decline in the past six months, the biggest
among major currencies, has prompted analysts to boost forecasts
for consumer price increases as imports become more expensive.
Tombini pledges to ensure inflation, which has remained above
the 4.5 percent midpoint of the target for three years, slows
next year. Analysts predict he will fail and inflation will
quicken.  “The central bank is behind the curve in trying to contain
inflation expectations and future inflation,” Paulo Vieira da Cunha, who was a member of the central bank’s board from 2006 to
2008, said in a phone interview. Policy makers “are concerned
inflation may breach the 6.5 percent ceiling.”  Increasing the benchmark interest rate by half a percentage
point as in the previous three meetings will prevent the central
bank from further losing credibility, said Cunha, who is a
partner at Tandem Global Management LP.  Faster Inflation  Analysts polled weekly by the central bank forecast
inflation will accelerate to 6 percent in 2014 from 5.8 percent
in 2013, according to the latest survey published Oct. 7. On
April 19, two days after the tightening cycle started with a
quarter-point increase, economists estimated consumer prices
would rise 5.7 percent this year and next.  Prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 5.93 percent
in the year through Sept. 12, the first time in nine months that
annual inflation slowed below 6 percent. Policy makers last
month increased their 2014 inflation forecast to 5.7 percent
from 5.2 percent, basing their estimate on analysts’ forecasts
that the Selic will rise to 9.75 percent.  That would be the “minimum” interest rate needed to
ensure inflation hovers around 6 percent, given there is no sign
the government plans to contain spending next year when
Brazilians vote for president, Marcelo Salomon, co-head for
Latin America economics at Barclays, said by phone from New
York.  Brazil  targets inflation of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent.  Spending Plans  Finance Minister Guido Mantega’s 2014 budget proposal
entails spending 1.04 trillion reais ($470 billion), a 12
percent increase from expenditures approved by lawmakers for
this year.  President Dilma Rousseff’s administration has sought to
spur the economy also by attracting billions of dollars in
infrastructure investments, boosting subsidized lending and
extending payroll tax cuts.  Gross domestic product  climbed  1.5 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, the fastest expansion
since 2010 and above the median estimate of 0.9 percent growth
from analysts polled by Bloomberg. GDP had increased less than
forecast in the previous five quarters.  The International Monetary Fund cut yesterday Brazil’s 2014
growth estimate to 2.5 percent from 3.2 percent. It forecast
South America will expand 3.1 percent.  Swap Rates  Rates on swap contracts due in January 2015 increased 1.45
percentage points to 10.08 percent yesterday from April 17 when
policy makers first raised borrowing costs this year.  “Policy makers want to do what they can to reassert their
inflation fighting credentials,” Neil Shearing, chief emerging
market economist at Capital Economics Ltd, said by phone.  The real, which has depreciated 10.4 percent in the past
six months, fell 0.3 percent to 2.211 per U.S. dollar yesterday.
The currency has gained 10.1 percent since Aug. 22, when the
central bank announced a $60 billion program of swaps and credit
line auctions to prevent the real from weakening further and
driving up the price of imports.  “The central bank wants next year’s inflation to be lower
than this year’s,” Enestor Dos Santos, principal economist at
BBVA and the top ranked Selic forecaster according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, said by phone. “They are not going to
adopt a more dovish tone at this time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  