-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise Before Central Bank Decision; Real Gains
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-10-09T14:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/brazil-swap-rates-rise-before-central-bank-decision-real-gains.html
Brazil ’s swap rates climbed for the
first time in a week as traders stepped up bets that the central
bank will sustain the pace of increases in borrowing costs at a
policy meeting today.  Swap rates on contracts maturing in January 2015 increased
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 10.11 percent
at 11:22 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real appreciated 0.3 percent to
2.2034 per  U.S. dollar .  While  annual inflation  slowed for a third consecutive month
in September, the rate remains more than 1 percentage point
above the country’s 4.5 percent target. Traders are betting that
policy makers will raise the benchmark lending rate, known as
the Selic, by a half-percentage point today for a fourth
straight meeting.  “There were expectations that inflation would slow to a
more comfortable level, and the market had perhaps been a bit
overly optimistic,” Joao Ricardo Costa, the chief economist at
Pezco Microanalysis in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview.
“Our expectation is the central bank will raise the Selic to 10
percent this year.”  The annual inflation rate dropped to 5.86 percent in
September from 6.09 percent the prior month, the statistics
agency reported today. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.85 percent. The central bank’s
target range is 4.5 percent plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Since April, the central bank has increased the  benchmark
lending rate  by 1.75 percentage points to 9 percent, the most
among 49 major economies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Bank’s Objective’  “The central bank’s objective will be to anchor longer-term outlooks in Brazil, which is why it will tighten more
severely in the short term,”  Andre Perfeito , the chief
economist at Gradual Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a
research note to clients.  The government will remain alert to make sure inflation
doesn’t “disturb” Brazilian consumers again, Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia.  Shorter-term swap rates rose yesterday after Petroleo
Brasileiro SA’s Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster
said in Sao Paulo that the state-controlled  oil company  may
raise gasoline prices this year. Edison Lobao, Brazil’s minister
of Mines and Energy, told reporters in Brasilia today that no
decision has been made on a possible increase.  The  International Monetary Fund  said in a report yesterday
that inflation persists in  Latin America ’s largest economy and
threatens to damp consumption, making interest-rate increases
“appropriate.” The fund kept its economic growth forecast for
Brazil this year at 2.5 percent while reducing its 2014 estimate
to 2.5 percent from 3.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  