-- Cable Said to Seek More Royal Mail Shares For Small Investors
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-10-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/cable-said-to-seek-more-royal-mail-shares-for-small-investors.html
 U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
is considering ways to reduce the portion of Royal Mail Group
Ltd. shares allocated to institutional investors in a bid to
boost the chances of smaller investors seeking a stake,
according to two people familiar with the sale.  Cable and junior minister Michael Fallon met investment
bankers yesterday, said the people, who requested anonymity
because the talks are confidential. The government originally
planned to sell around 70 percent of the shares to larger
investors and 30 percent to retail investors. With the retail
portion seven times oversubscribed, that split may now be
adjusted in favor of smaller bidders, one of the people said.  Royal Mail’s privatization will be the biggest in the U.K.
since British Rail was broken up in the 1990s. The share sale in
the 360-year-old company, which has refocused on package-delivery markets spurred by a trend toward web-based purchasing,
opened Sept. 27 and was fully subscribed within hours. The sale
closed yesterday and conditional trading commences on Oct. 11.  Individuals who have placed large retail orders are also
likely to see those scaled back, according to the people. In a
statement on Oct. 7, Fallon said he was “committed to making
sure smaller investors get their fair share.”  A spokesman for the Business Department said no final
decision has been taken on allocation policy.  Cable earlier yesterday told Parliament’s Business
Committee in London that the IPO had drawn 700,000 applications
for shares from retail investors.  Popularity  The popularity of the offering means share orders priced
below the maximum 330 pence risk missing out, two people
familiar with the sale process said Oct. 8.  The government didn’t encourage retail applications in the
manner of the 1986 privatization of British Gas, now  Centrica
Plc (CNA) , which was advertised on television, and set a monthlong
timetable from announcement to the beginning of trading.  Cable told lawmakers he was looking to “place the shares
with long-term investors.” He rejected suggestions from some of
them that the popularity of the offering meant the price had
been set too low or that ministers should consider a windfall
tax on any property sales the privatized company might make.  Looking at previously oversubscribed offerings, Cable said,
“the trajectory of their subsequent share values has been very,
very disparate -- some have gone down.”  Out of the company’s 150,000 staff, 371 have opted not to
receive free shares in the company, Cable said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  