-- Canada Pension Considers Joining Bid for BlackBerry
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-10-09T19:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/canada-pension-considers-joining-bid-for-blackberry.html
Canada  Pension Plan Investment Board
would consider joining a bid for BlackBerry Ltd., though the
country’s biggest pension fund says it’s not compelled to rescue
the struggling Canadian smartphone maker.  “Given that BlackBerry is clearly for sale or looking for
strategic solutions, it would be fair to assume that we would
analyze that and try and make a determination as to whether it
makes sense on a risk-adjusted basis for us to participate in a
financial bid,”  Mark Wiseman , chief executive officer of the
Toronto-based fund, said in an interview today.  Canada Pension, with C$188.9 billion ($181.6 billion) under
management, joins Canadian funds including Alberta Investment
Management Corp. that are weighing investments in BlackBerry.  Wiseman declined to say whether the fund was considering
joining the Fairfax bid or any other investment group.  “We’re in the business of investing,” Wiseman said from
his Toronto office. “It is safe to assume that we would look at
any large asset that was up for sale anywhere in the world that
could potentially meet our investment criteria.”  BlackBerry agreed last month to a tentative $4.7 billion
offer from  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , its largest
shareholder, to take the handset-maker private. Under that pact,
 BlackBerry (BBRY)  has until Nov. 4 to consider other proposals while
Fairfax and a group of investors conduct due diligence and line
up financing. Toronto-based Fairfax hasn’t named any partners in
its bid.  Fairfax Bid  BlackBerry accepted a tentative offer from Fairfax after
years of losing market share to rivals Apple Inc. and Samsung
Electronics Co. The smartphone maker’s failure to capture
consumer interest as Apple and Samsung broadened its array of
smartphone apps and devices pushed BlackBerry’s share of the
global smartphone market down to 2.9 percent in June, according
to research firm IDC.  Leo de Bever, CEO of Alberta Investment Management, said
Oct. 7 that “all the usual suspects” are speaking with Fairfax
about investing in the Waterloo, Ontario-based company.  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan , the country’s third-largest pension
manager, held preliminary discussions with Fairfax about its bid
for the company, two people familiar with the talks said last
month. Fairfax CEO Prem Watsa said Sept. 23 that the consortium
of interested parties had a strong Canadian component.  BlackBerry Shares  Canada Pension held 1.3 million shares of BlackBerry worth
C$13.3 million as of June 30, according to the fund’s latest
quarterly filing. The fund is the third-largest holder of the
company’s stock among Canada’s pension managers after Ontario
Teachers’ and Public Sector Pension Investment Board, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Canada Pension, which manages the retirement savings for 18
million people in every province except for  Quebec , would
examine any investment based on the risk and return, rather than
a sense of nationalism to keep BlackBerry in Canadian hands,
Wiseman said.  “The money we’re managing is the hard-earned savings of 18
million individuals,” said Wiseman, who uses a BlackBerry
handheld device. “So whatever my personal views may be about
BlackBerry or any other company in this country, our job here
isn’t to save Canadian companies or to kill them or even to have
a view on them. Our job is very simply to make the best
investments we can, be it here or anywhere else in the world.”  BlackBerry fell less than 1 percent to $7.97 at 1:45 p.m.
in  New York , below the $9-a-share offer from Fairfax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  