-- Canadian Billionaire Desmarais of Power Corp. Dies at 86
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-10-09T18:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/canadian-billionaire-desmarais-of-power-corp-dies.html
Paul Desmarais Sr., the Canadian
billionaire who built one of the country’s biggest insurance and
money-management fortunes after inheriting a fleet of buses in a
mining town, has died. He was 86.  Desmarais died last night, according to a statement today
from  Power Corp. (POW)  of  Canada , his Montreal-based holding company
that also has investments in Europe and the U.S. Desmarais was
the fourth-richest Canadian, with a net worth of about $5.1
billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  “He was a great man, a classy man, who created a fantastic
company from virtually nothing,” Claude Lamoureux, former Chief
Executive Officer of the C$129.5 billion ($124.6 billion)
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, said today in an interview. “Of
all the Canadian business people, he is probably the one who had
the best global network of contacts.”  Power Corp., which had revenue last year of C$32.9 billion,
controls the country’s second-largest insurer,  Great-West Lifeco
Inc. (GWO) ;  IGM Financial Inc. (IGM) , Canada’s largest publicly traded
mutual fund company; and Swiss holding company  Pargesa Holding
SA. (PARG)  Desmarais, who acquired control of Power Corp. in 1968,
served as the company’s chairman and CEO until 1996, when his
sons Paul Jr. and Andre became co-CEOs.  Outstripping Benchmarks  Before the financial crisis of 2008, Power Corp.
outstripped Canada’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite
Index. Including dividends, Power Corp. returned 21-fold in the
20 years through 2007, more than six times the return of the
S&P/TSX. In the five years through the end of September, Power
Corp. has  returned  39 percent, trailing the 52 percent gain for
the benchmark index.  “Paul Desmarais is the most vital money man we have and
the most essentially Canadian,” journalist Peter C. Newman
wrote in his 1975 book “The Canadian Establishment.” Desmarais
is “a man who can attempt any corporate foray he wants, can do
it because he has the money, the energy, the imagination and no
apparent guilt.”  In 1978, Desmarais was named to the Order of Canada, the
country’s highest civilian honor. He’s survived by his wife,
Jacqueline, his two sons, and daughters Sophie and Louise.  Desmarais’s position at the apex of Quebec’s business
establishment tied him to halls of power in Ottawa. According to
“The Canadian Establishment,” his close friends have included
former prime ministers Pierre Elliott Trudeau, who died in
September 2000, and Jean Chretien. His younger son Andre is
married to Chretien’s daughter,  France .  Four PMs  Four former prime ministers have worked for Power Corp.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Paul Martin, who spent 15 years working for Desmarais
before switching to politics and becoming prime minister, said
his former boss “demonstrated that a Canadian can build a great
company that can have a global imprint.”  “He made me the president of Canada Steamship Lines when I
was 33,” Martin, 75, said today by telephone from Montreal. “I
went to talk to him about it, and he said the two most important
things are first, integrity, and the second is you have to have
a global vision. That question of integrity is the reason that
he was such a huge success because everybody trusted him.”  Desmarais was also a philanthropist and a patron of the
arts, supporting organizations such as Montreal’s Canadian
 Centre  for Architecture -- home to the Paul Desmarais Theatre. A
 pavilion  of the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts is named after
Jean-Noel Desmarais, his father.  PQ Tributes  Legislators in  Quebec ’s National Assembly today observed a
minute of silence in his honor.  “Today Quebec has lost one of its great builders,”
Premier Pauline Marois said in the legislature in Quebec City.  Desmarais’ memory “will forever remain associated with one
of the most beautiful personal success stories of our time, as
well as the inspiring achievements of a great philanthropist,”
Marois added. “He was respected around the world.”  Desmarais supported a unified Canada, which didn’t always
endear him to Quebec separatists such as Marois. In 1970, the
Front de Liberation du Quebec, a nationalist group, named
Desmarais as a target in a manifesto. He was then provided with
round-the-clock security.  “He was a very strong Canadian,” Martin said. “The only
political discussion I ever had with him after I went into
public life was on the need to win the referendum” on Quebec
secession in 1995, he said.  Sagard Estate  In his home province, Desmarais is also known for his
15,000-acre (6,070-hectare) Sagard estate in the Charlevoix
region, about 300 miles (482 kilometers) north of  Montreal . The
property covers an area larger than  Manhattan . In a 2008
interview, Desmarais told France’s Le Point magazine that his
chateau was inspired by the Malcontenta de Palladio villa near
 Venice .  Guests at Sagard have included former French President
Nicolas Sarkozy and former U.S. President George H.W. Bush.
Desmarais was awarded the Grand-Croix of the French Legion of
Honor, the country’s highest distinction, by Sarkozy in 2008.  Paul Guy Desmarais was born on Jan. 4, 1927, to Jean-Noel
and Lebea Desmarais in a French-speaking enclave of Sudbury,
Ontario, a nickel mining town 250 miles north of Toronto,
according to Marquis Who’s Who.  He began his corporate career in 1951, taking a break in
his legal studies to run a family-owned transportation company
that his grandfather started in 1916. At the time Desmarais took
over the company, it had 16 buses and C$384,000 in debt,
according to “The Canadian Establishment.”  ‘Extraordinary Personality’  Desmarais parlayed a series of transportation company
takeovers into a firm that would acquire newspaper, radio and
financial-services properties.  He started his foray into financial-services by buying
control of insurer Imperial Life for about C$12 million in 1963.
He then acquired Montreal newspaper La Presse, and by 1968, had
gained control of Power Corp., at one time an electric utility,
according to “Billionaires of Canada,” by Timothy Le Riche.  “He was an extraordinary personality,” Chretien told RDI
television network in an interview. “He was a businessman who
knew when to get in, and when to get out. We can all be proud of
him.”  Over the years, Desmarais built a web of European holdings
together with  Albert Frere , the Belgian industrialist who is one
of Europe’s richest men. Through Pargesa, the Frere and
Desmarais families own stakes in companies such as  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP) , France’s biggest bank, and  Total SA (FP) , the country’s largest
oil producer.  In the U.S., Power’s Great-West insurance unit completed
its biggest acquisition in 2007 with the $3.9 billion purchase
of Boston-based mutual-fund manager Putnam Investments.  “Canada has lost a giant and a great patriot,” Thomas
d’Aquino, who served as President of the Canadian Council of
Chief Executives from 1981 to 2009, said in statement. “No
business leader over the better part of four decades has
contributed more to the shaping of Canada than Paul Desmarais.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  