-- Canadian Dollar Falls for Third Day as U.S. Shutdown Persists
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-09T21:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/canadian-dollar-falls-for-third-day-as-u-s-shutdown-persists.html
Canada ’s dollar fell a third day as
the government of its largest trading partner remained shut amid
a political impasse about budgeting and lifting government
borrowing authority.  The currency reached a four-week low as crude oil, the
nation’s largest export, declined and gold dropped for a second
day. A report yesterday showed Canada’s trade deficit widened in
August even as exports to the U.S. that reached the highest
since the end of 2011. Jobs growth slowed last month, according
to a Bloomberg survey of economists before the government report
on Oct. 11.  “We’ve seen some signals the U.S. slowdown may spill over
to Canada, and we’ve had some weak trade numbers,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in Toronto, said by phone. “The Canadian dollar
has really been sidelined and moving sideways for the past
couple of weeks and I don’t think that’s going to change in the
near term.”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, declined 0.3 percent to C$1.0394 per U.S. dollar
at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after reaching the weakest level since
Sept. 9. One Canadian dollar buys 96.21 U.S. cents.  The currency traded weaker than its 50-, 100- and 200-day
moving averages for a second day, after trading stronger than
all three as recently as Sept. 19. Crude oil futures dropped 2
percent to $101.39 a barrel in  New York  while gold futures lost
1 percent to $1,305.59 per ounce.  Bond Trade  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds fell, with
yields rising one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.58
percent. The 1.5 percent securities maturing in June 2023 fell
10 cents to C$90.88.  The government sold C$2.7 billion ($2.6 billion) of three-year bonds at a yield of 1.539 percent, according to the  Bank of
Canada . The securities mature in February 2017.  The August trade deficit increased to C$1.31 billion and
July’s shortfall was raised to C$1.19 billion from an initial
C$931 million,  Statistics Canada  said yesterday in Ottawa.  President  Barack Obama  and Republican lawmakers continue to
tussle about reopening the government and raising the debt
ceiling, which had sent Treasury bill rates to the highest since
October 2008.  Fed Chief  The Bank of Canada said it welcomed Obama’s nomination of
Janet Yellen’s to lead the  Federal Reserve .  “The bank looks forward to continuing the close working
relationship it has enjoyed with Ms. Yellen and her
colleagues,” the Ottawa-based central bank said in a statement
on its website. “The bank has been honoured to work with Fed
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  for the past eight years, and we wish him
every success in his future endeavours.”.  Most Fed policy makers said the central bank was likely to
reduce the pace of its bond purchases this year, even as they
unexpectedly refrained from such a move in September, minutes of
their last meeting show.  The Canadian dollar has lost 2.3 percent this year against
nine developed-market peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The  U.S. dollar  is up 2.8 percent,
while the Australian currency fell 7.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  