-- Canadian Stocks Rise With Phone Shares as Yellen Picked for Fed
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-10-09T21:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/canada-stocks-rise-on-yellen-amid-u-s-debt-limit-negotiations.html
Canadian  stocks  rose from a five-week
low as telephone companies jumped the most in a two weeks amid
speculation that  Janet Yellen  won’t rush to withdraw
stimulus when she takes over as  Federal Reserve  chairman.  BCE Inc. and Telus Corp. gained at least 1.4 percent as
phone stocks gained for a fourth day.  Wi-Lan Inc. (WIN)  added 1
percent after settling litigation with BlackBerry Ltd. Pretium
Resources Inc. sank 31 percent as a company overseeing its gold
project in northern British Columbia resigned.  Jean Coutu Group
PJC Inc. (PJC/A)  tumbled 4.2 percent after posting worse-than-estimated
results.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 37.92
points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,730.33 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, after
earlier falling 0.1 percent. The index is up 2.4 percent this
year.  “What we’re seeing today and all week is quite a bit of
volatility and sensitivity to news headlines in the U.S.,” said
Youssef Zohny, portfolio manager with Stenner Investment
Partners of Richardson GMP Ltd. in Vancouver. Richardson GMP
manages about C$16 billion ($15.4 billion). “There’s a little
more certainty on the direction of monetary policy now that we
know who’s going to be in charge and more details from the
minutes. The market is responding well to that.”  Janet Yellen, the current Fed vice chairman, was nominated
by U.S. President Barack Obama to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as
chairman of the Federal Reserve. Yellen is expected to advocate
for maintaining stimulus that has helped fuel a global rally in
equities.  Bond Purchases  Most Fed policy makers said the central bank was likely to
reduce the pace of its bond purchases this year, according to
minutes released today of their last meeting, which took place
before the government shutdown.  The S&P/TSX retreated 0.8 percent yesterday to the lowest
since Aug. 30 as concern grew that U.S. lawmakers may fail to
raise the federal debt ceiling in time to avoid a government
default, expected on Oct. 17.  Economists say failure by the world’s largest borrower to
pay its debt will devastate stock markets from Brazil to Zurich
and throw the U.S. and world economies into a recession.  Some possible paths out of the partisan impasse in
 Washington  are starting to emerge. Each option is tentative and
lawmakers remain far from an agreement amid verbal sparring
between President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner .  “The longer this thing goes on and the lower the market
goes, the more bargains there will be,” said  John Kinsey ,  fund
manager  with Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto. He helps
manage about C$1 billion ($962 million).  Canadian Industries  Eight of 10 industries in the S&P/TSX advanced, with
telephone stocks adding 1.5 percent for a fourth day of gains.
Trading volume was 9.3 percent lower than the 30-day average.  BCE added 2.2 percent, the most in a month, to C$44.70.
Telus increased 1.4 percent to C$34.39 and Rogers Communications
Inc. rose 0.9 percent to C$45.18.  The Canadian government on Oct. 7 rejected Manitoba Telecom
Services Inc.’s proposed C$520 million sale of its Allstream
business division to Accelero Capital Holdings Sarl Group, an
investment firm co-founded by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , due to national security concerns.  The decision raises questions about Canadian ownership
policy in the wireless industry. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
government has been trying to encourage competition in the
nation’s wireless sector, while stepping up scrutiny of foreign
investments.  BlackBerry Patents  Wi-Lan added 1 percent to C$3.90 after settling litigation
with BlackBerry. The smartphone maker obtains licenses for some
patents. Terms of the agreement were not disclosed.  Allana Potash Corp. jumped 11 percent to 47 Canadian cents
after the fertilizer producer said it has been granted a mining
license for the Danakhil potash project in Ethiopia.  Pretium Resources plunged 31 percent to C$4.87, the lowest
since its initial offering in 2010. Strathcona Mineral Services
Ltd., hired for an independent assessment of a 10,000-metric-ton
ore sample, resigned, Pretium said today in a statement.  Jean Coutu, the drugstore chain operator, lost 4.2 percent
to C$18.12, the biggest decline since July 2012. The company
reported second-quarter adjusted  earnings  per share that fell
short by 1 Canadian cent of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Comparable pharmacy sales dropped 0.5 percent in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  