-- Canada Oils Gain on Speculation Seasonal Demand Drop Overdone
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-10-09T17:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/canada-oils-gain-on-speculation-seasonal-demand-drop-overdone.html
Canadian crudes strengthened on the
 spot market  versus the U.S. benchmark on speculation that
declines caused by a seasonal softening of demand were overdone.  Western Canadian Select heavy crude for November delivery
rose $1.75 a barrel to a $30.50 discount to West Texas
Intermediate, according to Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc.
The differential has shrunk by $4 a barrel from an eight-month
high Oct. 4.  “We’ve seen some narrowing, but the market is still
trading at wide levels due to unfavorable fundamentals,” said
David Bouckhout, senior commodities strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Calgary.  Canadian grades weakened over the past two months because
of a seasonal decline in demand from U.S. refineries, increased
production in  Canada  and pipeline constraints.  Refineries in PADD 2, or the U.S. Midwest, scaled back 
operations  by 7.3 percentage points over the past four weeks to
86.5 percent of capacity, U.S. Energy Information Administration
data show.  Canadian oil-sands production is forecast to continue
growing this year, by 10.5 percent to 1.99 million barrels a
day, according to a June forecast by the Canadian Association of
Petroleum Producers.  Syncrude, a light oil processed from oil-sands bitumen,
gained $1.35 a barrel to a $9.65 discount to WTI, NetEnergy
said. The grade had fallen to a $13.65 discount, the widest in
18 months, on Oct. 4.  Syncrude Output  Syncrude production is increasing as three upgraders in
 Alberta  and Saskatchewan ramp up operations after maintenance.
Output from the Syncrude plant near Fort McMurray, Alberta,  rose 
39 percent last month to 291,000 barrels a day, according to
 Canadian Oil Sands Ltd. (COS)   Pipeline company  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  said shipments this month on
Mainline lines 2 and 3, which transport a combined 678,700
barrels a day of light and synthetic oil from  Edmonton , Alberta,
to Superior,  Wisconsin , were overbooked by 12 percent, meaning
there was more demand to ship light grades than there was space
available.  Bouckhout said he expects Canadian crude discounts to widen
from average levels next year due to increasing supplies and
continued constraints on export pipelines, with Syncrude average
prices at parity or slightly negative to WTI and the WCS
discount in the mid-$20 range.  Syncrude has traded at a $1.81-a-barrel average premium to
WTI so far this year and WCS at a discount of $23.84 a barrel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  