-- Captain Phillips’s Ship Helmed by Tom Hanks at Risk in Shutdown
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-10-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/captain-phillips-s-ship-helmed-by-tom-hanks-at-risk-in-shutdown.html
The ship in  Tom Hanks ’s new movie is
part of a national-security program that’s now in jeopardy
because of the government shutdown.  The U.S. subsidizes a fleet of 60 ships -- including the
Maersk Alabama, whose 2009 hijacking is depicted in the film
“Captain Phillips” -- to fly the country’s flag in
international trade and carry supplies for the military. The
program has no funding and will have to downsize if Congress
doesn’t act within 60 days, Kevin Tokarski, associate
administrator for national security at the Maritime
Administration of the Department of Transportation in
 Washington , said yesterday by phone.  The Maritime Security Program is another victim of the
political deadlock that furloughed federal employees, shuttered
national parks and threatens to push the U.S. into default on
its debt. Without government subsidies, the ships that carried
90 percent of the goods for U.S missions in Iraq and Afghanistan
since 2009 may not be available when the military needs them,
according to  Maersk Line (MAERSKB)  Ltd., a division of the world’s largest
shipping line.  “In times of conflict or national emergency, you want to
be assured and have the full faith and confidence that
transportation needs are carried out by American mariners on
American-flagged vessels,” Clint Eisenhauer, vice president of
government relations for Maersk in Arlington, Virginia, said by
phone yesterday. “Because of our budget impasse, we find
ourselves in a place where, despite all that, the program is in
severe jeopardy.”  ‘Deep Recession’  President  Barack Obama  said at a White House press
conference yesterday that the  U.S. economy  risks a “very deep
recession” if Congress doesn’t raise the $16.7 trillion debt
ceiling. Lawmakers in Congress began taking the first tentative
steps toward resolving the standoff as both sides explore
actions that will be needed to end the week-old shutdown and
raise the debt limit before U.S. borrowing authority lapses on
Oct. 17.  Yields on one-month U.S. Treasury bills jumped to the
highest since 2008 and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled
the most since August yesterday amid the budget impasse.  Labor Rules  U.S. ships cost more to operate because of environmental
and labor rules, so they need a stipend to compete
internationally. Most vessels are registered in countries such
as  Panama , Liberia and the Marshall Islands, known as flags of
convenience. Without the Maritime Security Program, ships may
have to change their registration from the U.S., Kevin Speers, a
Norfolk, Virginia-based spokesman for  Maersk Line , said by phone
yesterday.  The  Department of Defense  didn’t return an e-mail seeking
comment.  While the ships mostly carry commercial cargoes, they ply
routes tailored to the military’s needs, Speers said. Cargoes
include beds and blankets, vehicles and meals for soldiers, as
well as humanitarian aid, according to Eisenhauer.  The Maersk Alabama, for example, shuttles food aid between
the  Middle East  and  Africa  and has on-board equipment to unload
in ports without cranes, Speers said.  When Somali pirates attacked the ship in April 2009, the
53-year-old captain,  Richard Phillips , agreed to go with them to
spare the crew. After five days in captivity, he was rescued
from a lifeboat in the  Indian Ocean  as Navy snipers killed three
pirates with three shots.  Maersk Line is the largest operator of ships in the
Maritime Security Program, with 19, according to the Maritime
Administration’s website.  Below Budget  Funding was already $12 million below budget before
mandatory across-the-board budget cuts known as sequestration
took effect earlier this year, Speers said. The law creating the
program allows for 60 days before it has to be reduced to fit
the level of funding, which, under the current shutdown, is
zero, Tokarski said.  “It’s almost beyond comprehension for us in the industry
to think that what Somali pirates couldn’t take away the  U.S.
Congress  might,” Don Marcus, president of the International
Organization of Masters, Mates & Pilots, a Linthicum Heights,
Maryland-based union representing U.S. mariners, said by phone.
“It leaves not only the merchant fleet but also the national
defense and our economy in serious straits.”  Editor: Philip Revzin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  