-- Carbon Markets 94% Cheaper Than Renewable Support, OECD Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-10-09T14:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/carbon-markets-16-times-cheaper-than-renewable-aid-oecd-says.html
Carbon markets are about 94 percent
cheaper at cutting  greenhouse gases  than renewable subsidies
paid to power producers, according to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  The cost of reducing one metric ton of carbon dioxide in
the power industry using emissions trading systems is 10 euros
($13.56) on average, compared with 169 euros for feed-in
tariffs, the OECD said today in a report. Some tariffs cost more
than 700 euros a ton, the OECD in Paris said in the study based
on data from 15 countries, including China and the U.S.  The OECD called on countries to assess the cost-effectiveness of climate-protection rules by taking an inventory
of policies that price carbon directly, such as markets, and
implicit systems including capital subsidies and feed-in
tariffs. The group is making its recommendations as  China , the
biggest emitter, considers carbon markets and taxes.  “Subsidies wind up in the pockets of the rich,” Anthony
Cox, head of the OECD’s climate division, said in an interview
in  London . “Direct prices, such as emissions trading systems
and taxes, are often a more cost-effective way to cut carbon.”  Costly Policy  While most countries reviewed provide “relatively
significant incentives” to reduce emissions from power
generation, this may only apply to a small share of carbon
dioxide output, according to the report. “A high implicit
carbon price isn’t necessarily indicative of sound policy as it
could merely stem from a policy that isn’t cost-effective.”  Carbon prices are necessary though governments sometimes
need to offer additional support to encourage research and
development in new technology, such as carbon capture and
storage, Cox said.  Tax exemptions and fossil-fuel subsidies that undermine the
transition toward zero-carbon solutions should be removed where
possible, according to the OECD.  Failing to change emission-reduction policies will cost
more than the billions of euros needed to wean consumers off
fossil fuels,  Angel Gurria , OECD’s secretary-general, said today
at a press conference at the office of law firm Norton Rose
Fulbright LLP in London.  “What we are describing here is a growth story,” he said.
“Going down the high-carbon route will destroy growth.”  Countries used in the OECD research were Australia, Brazil,
Chile, China, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Japan, Korea,
 New Zealand ,  South Africa , Spain, the U.K. and the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  