-- Carlyle Wins Approval for Buildings on London’s Southbank
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-10-09T14:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/carlyle-wins-approval-for-buildings-on-london-s-southbank.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the second-biggest
private-equity firm by assets, won local-government approval to
develop offices, shops and apartments in nine buildings on the
south bank of the  River Thames  opposite  St. Paul’s Cathedral .  London ’s Southwark Borough Council yesterday granted
permission for the project, which includes 489 apartments, about
42,000 square meters (450,000 square feet) of offices and 2,581
square meters of shops next to the Tate Modern art gallery. The
plan, outlined in filings by affiliates of Washington-based
Carlyle, includes a 170-meter (558-foot) tall residential tower.  The development’s location “is currently extremely under-utilized from a physical, social, employment as well as cultural
perspective,” Mark Harris, a managing director at Carlyle, said
in an e-mailed statement. “This is a once-in-a-generation
opportunity to create a vibrant new destination area, with
homes, retail and leisure facilities.”  Construction will be completed between 2020 and 2023,
Carlyle said in a statement today. The company will have to pay
65 million pounds ($104 million) toward the construction of
affordable housing as a condition of the planning approval.  The residential tower will be 48-stories high and the homes
will be built facing the river with the office buildings to the
south, Carlyle said in the statement.  Thames Projects  The South Bank area is home to some of the city’s most
high-profile real estate projects, including a plan to redevelop
the site of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s London headquarters. There
are 27 developments under way on the south side of the River
Thames that will produce 16,300 homes during a 10-year period,
broker  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  said in a report last month.  Carlyle fell about 1.5 percent to $26.96 in  New York . The
shares have risen about 3.6 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of $8.4 billion.  Dalian Wanda Group, the Chinese developer controlled by
billionaire Wang Jianlin, is spending 700 million pounds on a
62-story luxury hotel and apartment building in Vauxhall, about
two miles upriver from Carlyle’s project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  