-- Carlyle-to-Bass Backed Mortgage Insurer NMI Files for IPO
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-10-09T14:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/carlyle-to-bass-backed-mortgage-insurer-nmi-files-for-ipo.html
NMI Holdings Inc. (NMIHZ) , a mortgage insurer
backed by funds tied to  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and Kyle Bass, filed to
sell shares in an initial public offering as investors bet on a
housing-market rebound.  FBR & Co. (FBRC)  is leading the sale, according to a regulatory
filing today from Emeryville, California-based NMI. The company
said it’s seeking to raise $25 million, a placeholder amount
used to calculate registration fees, according to the document.  Investors have poured cash into mortgage insurance this
year as  home prices rise , pushing up shares of  MGIC Investment
Corp. (MTG)  and  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  by more than 100 percent, and buying
their notes in offerings.  Essent Group Ltd. (ESNT) , a mortgage
guarantor funded amid the financial crisis by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and billionaire  George Soros , filed last month for an
IPO. The companies cover losses when homeowners default and
foreclosures fail to recoup costs.  “As the U.S. housing market continues to recover, the
demand for private capital to insure mortgage risk and to
facilitate secondary market loan sales will grow,” NMI said in
the filing.  Claren Road Asset Management LLC, the hedge fund majority
owned by Carlyle, is NMI’s largest backer, with a 12.6 percent
stake, according to the filing. Bass’s Hayman Capital Management
LP has 9.9 percent and Blue Mountain Capital Management LP owns
9.8 percent. Funds overseen by Perry Corp. have 7.2 percent.  Claren and Perry also have investments in publicly traded
mortgage guarantors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Hedge fund manager  John Paulson  has invested in the companies as
part of a bet on a recovery in the U.S. housing market. Mortgage
insurance is typically required when borrowers pay less than 20
percent of the cost of their home upfront.  Housing Rebound  Home prices rose by the most in more than seven years in
the 12 months through July, according to the S&P Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 U.S. cities. Private mortgage
guarantors are also benefiting as the U.S. reduces its role
insuring home loans.  NMI was founded in 2011 and raised $550 million in a
private share sale in 2012, according to the filing. The firm,
led by Chief Executive Officer Bradley Shuster, a former manager
at PMI Group Inc., began selling mortgage insurance in April.  Stockholders’ equity was about $456 million as of June 30,
according to the filing. The filing doesn’t show how many shares
existing holders plan to sell.  Fannie Mae , the government-controlled mortgage buyer,
obtained insurance on a pool of about $5 billion of home loans
from NMI, according to a July statement.  Mortgage insurers PMI and  Triad Guaranty Inc. (TGICQ)  filed for
bankruptcy after housing crashed. Old Republic International
Corp. also retreated from the mortgage guaranty business.  NMI applied to list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol NMIH, according to the filing. The company filed as an
“emerging growth company” under the Jumpstart Our Business
Startups Act, allowing for reduced disclosure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  