-- Carlton Fields Merges With Jorden Burt: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/carlton-fields-merges-with-jorden-burt-business-of-law.html
Carlton Fields PA is merging with the
class-action defense boutique Jorden Burt LLP, creating a firm
with 370 legal professionals at 10 offices. The new firm will be
led by Carlton Fields Chief Executive Officer Gary Sasso and
called Carlton Fields Jorden Burt.  “The fit between our law firms is natural and powerful,”
Sasso said in a statement. “Both firms have strong national
practices in class-action defense and high-stakes litigation. We
see an opportunity to match strength with strength, putting
together highly capable professionals who like and respect each
other.”  Carlton Fields has about 300 attorneys and government
consultants in  Florida , Atlanta and New York. The firm’s core
practices include national class-action defense, national and
international trial and appellate litigation, health care,
white-collar defense and government investigations.  Jorden Burt has more than 70 lawyers in Washington, Miami
and Hartford,  Connecticut . The firm focuses on national class-action defense, litigation and corporate and regulatory
representation of the financial-services industry, including
insurance, banking, securities and health care.  “Over the past 25 years, we have built a strong national
practice in class action defense, trial work, and representation
of the financial services industry,” Jorden Burt’s managing
partner, Jim Jorden, said in a statement. “In weighing
alternatives about how best to grow our practices in the years
to come, we concluded that Carlton Fields offers a unique
combination of talent, platform, practices, values and
philosophy.”  Jorden will be on the combined firm’s executive committee.  Nixon Peabody Names Seth Levy as Los Angeles Managing Partner  Nixon Peabody LLP named IP lawyer Seth Levy managing
partner of the firm’s 55-lawyer Los Angeles office. Levy
succeeds Rick Jones, who opened the office with Travis Gibbs in
2005  Levy’s practice focuses on intellectual-property
protection, strategy and disputes, particularly in life sciences
and health care, the firm said. He also handles a range of
technology, clinical research and entertainment transactions and
acts as outside general counsel to emerging growth companies.  Jones will continue representing educational institutions,
nonprofit entities, underwriters and technology companies in
structuring and executing financings, the firm said.  Nixon Peabody has more than 600 attorneys at offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  Partner Moves  Ninth Weil Partner in Month Joins Sidley in Dallas  Former Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP partner S. Scott Parel
will join Sidley Austin LLP in  Dallas  as a member of the global
private-equity and M&A practices.  Parel is the latest Weil partner to leave the firm from the
 Texas  offices. He joins eight former Dallas partners who are
moving to Sidley from Weil’s Dallas office, including two who
were also members of the private-equity practice.  Weil lawyer Nicolas Barzoukas, who specializes in patent
litigation, last week also announced plans to leave. He is
joining Baker Botts LLP as a partner in the Houston office.  Multiple publications have reported that at least five
other partners are leaving Weil in Texas. Above the Law reported
that a Dallas corporate partner is leaving to join Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP. The American Lawyer magazine reported that four
partners, including Weil’s Houston office managing partner, are
joining Winston & Strawn LLP in Houston.  Weil declined to comment on the departures. Winston Strawn
didn’t return a phone call seeking confirmation of the hires.  Parel focuses his practice on complex corporate and
transactional matters, representing private and pension fund
sponsors and their portfolio companies in connection with
leveraged acquisitions, minority investments, divestitures,
joint ventures and restructurings, the firm said.  “We are extremely pleased to further expand our private-equity and M&A practices with a lawyer of Scott’s caliber,”
Larry Barden, vice chairman of Sidley’s management committee,
said in a statement. “He has built an impressive practice
representing several leading private-equity sponsors.”  Sidley’s Dallas office, which opened in 1996, now has
almost 60 lawyers including 16 associates and counsel from Weil
who have accepted offers from Sidley, the firm said.  Sidley has about 1,700 lawyers in 19 offices worldwide.  Former AUSA Heidi Wendel Joins Jones Day in New York City  Former Assistant U.S. Attorney  Heidi Wendel  joined Jones
Day’s New York office in the health-care and life-sciences
practices.  Wendel was chief of the U.S. attorney’s office’s civil
frauds unit, which was established as the counterpart to the
complex frauds unit in the criminal division, from September
2010 through last month. She investigated and prosecuted large-scale and sophisticated fraud in the health-care, mortgage,
pharmaceutical and banking industries, the firm said.  As chief of the unit, Wendel oversaw the office’s civil
frauds and other affirmative civil-enforcement cases outside the
areas of environmental and tax law.  “Heidi’s experience at the U.S. attorney’s office puts her
at the forefront of legal issues related to complex fraud
investigations in a variety of industries,” Wesley Johnson,
partner-in-charge of Jones Day’s New York office, said in a
statement.  Jones Day has more than 40 offices globally.  Mayer Brown Adds Two Securitization Partners in  London .  Mayer Brown LLP said Richard Todd and David O’Connor will
join its banking and finance group in London. Todd, a former
Mayer Brown securitization lawyer, rejoins the firm from Berwin
Leighton Paisner LLP. O’Connor, also a securitization
specialist, joins from Allen & Overy LLP.  Todd has experience as a structured-finance partner who
specializes in securitizations. He also has strong trade-finance
and asset-based lending capabilities and advises both banks and
companies.  O’Connor is a senior securitization lawyer whose practice
includes RMBS, CMBS, covered bonds and CMBS restructuring, the
firm said.  Mayer Brown has lawyers in the Americas, Europe and Asia.  Commercial Litigator Steven Goldberg Returns to Manatt Phelps  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP said Steven M. Goldberg
joined the firm’s Los Angeles office as a partner in the
litigation practice. He was previously a partner at Russ August
& Kabat.  Goldberg handles entertainment, real estate, securities,
business tort, employment, insurance coverage and bad-faith
litigation matters. He also works on intra-corporate disputes
and antitrust, copyright and trademark-infringement litigation,
the firm said.  Goldberg has twice been a partner at Manatt, in the 1980s
and from 2000 to 2003.  Manatt Phelps has offices in  California , New York and
 Washington .  Hinshaw & Culbertson Adds Three Labor and Employment Attorneys  Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP said three Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard
& Smith attorneys joined the firm’s labor and employment
practice as partners in New York. They are Ivan D. Smith,
Maureen M. Stampp and Gregory Glickman.  “The addition of these highly regarded partners in New
York is a key step in advancing our strategy of growing the
office in areas such as labor and employment, environment,
white-collar litigation and professional liability and mass-tort
defense where the firm already has strong existing practice
groups,” J. Richard Supple Jr., partner-in-charge of Hinshaw &
Culbertson’s New York office, said in a statement.  Smith was co-chairman of the entertainment practice and
vice chairman of the labor and employment group at Lewis
Brisbois. He has experience in employment-discrimination cases,
with a specialty in class and multi-plaintiff cases in state and
federal courts across the country.  Stampp represents clients before administrative agencies,
providing legal services in the health-care, maritime, food
service, trucking, engineering and media industries, and has
represented teachers, lawyers and municipal unions.  Glickman practices labor and employment law and represents
clients in workplace discrimination and traditional labor
issues.  Hinshaw & Culbertson has 500 lawyers at 23 U.S. offices.  Barnes & Thornburg Adds to Wilmington Office with IP Litigator  Barnes & Thornburg LLP said  Chad  S.C. Stover joined its
Wilmington,  Delaware , office in the intellectual-property group.
Previously, Stover was a partner at Novak Druce Connolly Bove &
Quigg LLP.  Stover, who represents financial institutions,
manufacturers and technology developers, focuses his practice on
patent litigation, trademark and copyright litigation, and
unfair-competition and trade-secret litigation.  “Chad’s wealth of knowledge and experience will have
immediate value for our clients involved in cases before the
U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, which is the
top jurisdiction in the country for patent litigation,” David
Powlen, managing partner of Barnes & Thornburg’s Wilmington
office, said in a statement.  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 600 attorneys and other
legal professionals at its U.S. offices.  Fees  Plaintiffs Lawyers Seek $11 Million in E-Book Antitrust Cases  Lawyers at Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP filed a request
for $11 million in class counsel fees for the work the firm and
co-counsel Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC performed on the
electronic-book antitrust cases.  “When class counsel filed this case, it was willing to
undertake the entire burden of this risky litigation alone,”
according to the firm’s filing. “Once joined with the DOJ and
the state attorneys general from 33 states, class counsel has
worked efficiently to litigate this conspiracy against six
sophisticated defendants.”  The plaintiffs’ firms worked with the U.S. and state
governments preparing for the trials for more than two years,
the firm said in its filing. Hagens Berman, Cohen Milstein and
the government all filed suit, alleging a conspiracy among
publishers to fix the prices of electronic books.  In July, U.S. District Judge Denise Cote found  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
had conspired with the five publishers to fix e-book prices.
Before the trial, the publishers -- Verlagsgruppe Georg von
Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan unit,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster,
 Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book Group,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit
and News Corp.’s HarperCollins -- settled with the government
for a total of at least $164 million.  Class counsel spent about 14,534 hours and $750,465 in
expenses on the case, according to the court filing.  The case is In re electronic books antitrust litigation 11-md-02293, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 