-- China’s Stock-Index Futures Drop After IMF Cuts Growth Outlook
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-09T01:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/china-s-stock-index-futures-drop-after-imf-cuts-growth-outlook.html
China’s stock-index futures  fell
after the  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecasts for the
nation’s economic growth and warned that a U.S. government
default could “seriously damage” the world economy.  Futures on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  expiring in October lost 0.3
percent to 2,435 as of 9:18 a.m. local time.  China Yangtze Power
Co. (600900) , owner of the world’s biggest hydropower project, may drop
after its electricity output fell 11 percent in the first nine
months. China Vanke Co. may rise as UBS AG said the developer’s
sales jumped 29 percent last month from a year earlier.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1.1 percent to
2,198.20 yesterday, as retailers and property developers
advanced on increased sales during a week-long holiday. Trading
volumes in the measure were 13 percent lower than the 30-day
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The CSI 300
Index rose 1.4 percent to 2,441.81. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  gained 1 percent.  The IMF reduced its forecast for China to 7.6 percent this
year in a report released yesterday in Washington, from a 7.8
percent estimate in July, and to 7.3 percent in 2014 from 7.7
percent. The  World Bank  lowered its estimate for China’s growth
a day earlier.  The prospect of higher U.S. long-term interest rates and a
partial reversal of capital flows is leaving  emerging markets 
with weak fiscal positions or higher inflation particularly
exposed, the fund said.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index, the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, fell 2.1 percent in
New York yesterday as concern grew that a deadlock among U.S.
lawmakers over the debt limit could lead to a government
default. President  Barack Obama  reiterated yesterday that he
won’t negotiate with Republicans over the partial government
shutdown and the U.S. debt limit.  U.S. Shutdown  The Shanghai Composite trades at 8.7 times projected
earnings for the next 12 months, compared with the five-year
average of 12.6 times, according to  data  compiled Bloomberg. The
index has climbed 13 percent from this year’s low on June 27 as
Shanghai-based companies jumped on speculation they will benefit
from deregulation in the city’s free-trade zone.  China’s economy has “strong momentum” as major economic
indicators have rebounded since July, the Xinhua News Agency
cited Premier  Li Keqiang  as saying in a written interview with
media from Asean nations.  The government will start to release September economic
data as early as this week. The central bank may release reports
on money supply and new lending as early as today, while the
customs office is scheduled to provide foreign-trade data on
Oct. 12.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  