-- China Commercial Seeks Acquisitions to Bond Sales in Loans Push
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-09T21:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/china-commercial-seeks-acquisitions-to-bond-sales-in-loans-push.html
China Commercial Credit Inc. (CCCR) , the
nation’s first U.S.-listed micro credit firm, plans to boost its
lending capacity by almost 10-fold in three years through
acquisitions and more capital raising.  The lender aims to have 5 billion yuan ($817 million) of
loans, up from about 550 million yuan as of June 30, mainly by
buying rivals across China, Chief Executive Officer Qin Huichun
said in a phone interview yesterday, without specifying targets.
The company is considering sales of asset-backed securities
domestically and bonds abroad to raise capital, Qin said.  Micro financing has flourished in China since its inception
in 2005 as the nation’s 42 million smaller businesses missed out
on a 4 1/2 year  credit binge  that mostly benefited government-backed enterprises and projects. Less than 10 percent of small
private enterprises have access to bank loans, according to
Citic Securities Co. estimates, despite accounting for 60
percent of  economic output  and 80 percent of jobs.  “Although banks have increased their lending to small
firms in the last few years, the amount is insignificant and the
impact is quite limited,” Qin said. “Microlenders like us will
become the key force to fill the void and there’ll be huge
potential in serving these borrowers.”  Less than a third of the $7 trillion in outstanding
corporate loans made in China were to smaller companies,
according to data from the  central bank , forcing them to resort
to more expensive alternate sources of financing such as
underground lenders and trusts.  Outstanding Credit  China had 7,086 micro credit firms specialized in offering
loans to farmers and small businesses at the end of June, more
than triple the number from three years ago,  People’s Bank of
China  figures show. Their outstanding credit surged over 560
percent during the same period to 704.3 billion  yuan  as of June
30, according to the data.  Shares of China Commercial Credit have rallied 44 percent
since its August debut on the Nasdaq Stock Market to close at
$9.33 yesterday. Based in Wujiang city in the eastern province
of Jiangsu, the five-year-old company raised $8.9 million from
its initial public offering and is now valued at $97 million.  China Commercial Credit provides lending and loan
guarantees to more than 360 small-and-medium enterprises as well
as farmers in Jiangsu, which has 529 microlenders, more than any
other province in the country, according to the central bank.  Benchmark Rate  Unlike banks, micro credit firms are not allowed to take
deposits and can only offer loans with shareholders’ capital and
bank borrowings. About a quarter of China Commercial Credit’s
funds available for lending came from bank borrowing, according
to Qin, 49.  The former PBOC official said China Commercial Credit paid
about 20 percent above the benchmark rate, currently set at 6
percent for one-year loans, to borrow from commercial banks.
Meanwhile, the firm charged an average 15 percent annual rate on
loans to small businesses and farmers.  China Commercial Credit had  net income  of $8.3 million in
2012, little changed from a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Qin expects credit quality of micro lending to worsen in
the remainder of the year as small borrowers struggle to repay
debts amid an economic slowdown. China will probably record
growth of 7.6 percent this year, the weakest pace since 1999,
according to a Bloomberg economist survey.  The Yangtze River Delta, including Jiangsu and Zhejiang
provinces where small businesses are concentrated, has seen the
biggest increase in soured loans among publicly-traded mainland
banks in the first half, according to their earnings reports.  Sour Loans  Nonperforming loans at Chinese banks grew for a seventh
straight quarter in the three months ended June 30 to 539.5
billion yuan, extending the longest streak in at least nine
years, according to  China  Banking Regulatory Commission data.
Still, that accounted for less than 1 percent of the nation’s
outstanding loans, the data showed.  Policy makers have encouraged more financial support for
small businesses. The banking regulator ordered banks last month
to increase loans to small firms at a faster rate than other
industries and raise their credit tolerance toward those
companies.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  