-- Christie Says in Debate He Won’t Rule Out White House
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/christie-debates-gay-rights-to-taxes-in-debate-with-buono.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
and Democratic challenger Barbara Buono debated same-sex
marriage, taxes and the economy last night in a debate that also
touched on the Republican’s presidential prospects in 2016.  Christie brushed off a question about his White House
aspirations while Buono, a state senator from Metuchen who has
struggled against the popular incumbent, challenged him to say
whether he’d finish another four-year term if re-elected.  “People have been talking about me running for president
since 2010,” Christie said, adding that he wouldn’t predict
what he might decide in three years. If re-elected, he said, he
would do the best job he could, while not letting his future
plans interfere with his performance in the office.  Christie, 51, the only U.S. governor seeking re-election
this year, has a wide lead over Buono, 60, in fundraising and in
voter polls. He has brought in $6 for every $1 she’s collected,
while the most recent survey had him leading by 34 percentage
points. A landslide win in a Democratic stronghold may provide
him with a launching pad for a 2016 presidential run.  Buono charged Christie with mishandling the state  economy ,
urging him to acknowledge that he hasn’t sufficiently increased
jobs or economic growth. The governor said his administration
had cut taxes and curbed rising property levies while taking
steps to undo budget damage left by a decade of largesse under
Democrats, including Buono.  Truth Teller  “What the people of New Jersey want is someone who’s real
and tells them the truth as he sees it,” Christie said during
the hour-long debate -- their first of the campaign -- at
William Paterson University in Wayne.  “That’s what I’ve done for four years: I’ve looked them in
the eye and told them the truth,” the governor said.
“Sometimes they were truths they were uncomfortable with.
Sometimes they were truths they didn’t want to hear. But that’s
what leadership is about.”  Buono, a lawyer, took up her party’s standard this year
after more-popular Democrats, including Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , chose not to challenge Christie. Booker instead is
running for an open  U.S. Senate  in an Oct. 16 special election.  During several heated exchanges, the Democrat knocked
Christie for suspending property-tax rebates, vetoing same-sex
marriage legalization and failing to lower college costs. She
said his economic policies haven’t worked, with hundreds of
thousands of residents still  jobless .  ‘Man Up’  “Four years ago we had the highest unemployment in the
region,” Buono said. “Today, with 400,000 out of work, we
still do.”  “It’s time to put New Jersey first and bring jobs back,”
she said. “I’m going to be the kind of governor to do that. I
will lift up the middle class.”  “You have to man up,” Buono told Christie. “You’ve been
in office four years and it’s time to own your record and defend
your record.”  Christie responded that he is proud of his accomplishments,
saying that voters should decide such a weighty issue as
allowing same-sex marriage, not politicians or the courts.  The debates -- another is set for Oct. 15 -- hold little in
the way of risk for Christie, according to  Julian Zelizer , who
teaches history and public affairs at  Princeton University .  The Republican has two prime objectives, Zelizer said by
telephone from the school in Princeton, New Jersey. By expanding
his victory margin compared with 2009, Christie will increase
his sway with the Democrats who control the legislature. At the
same time, a knockout win also makes him appear stronger as a
contender for the White House, Zelizer said.  ‘Dual Strategy’  “The debate plays into this dual strategy,” Zelizer said.
“It’s not about who wins or loses at this point. It’s about how
much he can increase the margin of victory and the implications
it will have for him as governor and if he runs for president.”  Christie, a former federal prosecutor, in 2009 became the
first in his party to win a statewide election since 1997 when
he ousted then-Governor  Jon Corzine , a Democrat and former U.S.
senator, 48 percent to 45 percent.  The Republican has ridden high voter-approval numbers since
gaining plaudits for his handling of  Hurricane Sandy  last year.
Christie faulted his party’s congressional leaders over delays
in storm-related aid and embraced President  Barack Obama  when he
toured damaged areas.  Buono was elected to the Senate in 2001 after serving three
terms in the state Assembly and the Metuchen town council. She
rose to Senate majority leader before losing the post two years
ago amid Democratic party infighting.  Wide Lead  Christie led Buono 64 percent to 30 percent among 1,249
likely voters in a Sept. 19-22 Quinnipiac University survey,
which showed the senator making no progress in denting his lead.
A third of Democrats backed the governor and 61 percent of women
said they would cast ballots to re-elect him, according to the
poll, which had a margin of error of 2.8 percentage points.  The governor has brought in $12.6 million for his campaign,
including almost $8.1 million in public matching funds,
according to state Election Law Enforcement Commission records.
His fundraising stops have included an event at the  Palo Alto ,
 California , home of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg .  Buono has collected $2.1 million, including almost $1.1
million in state funds, since the race started, according to
commission figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 