-- Citi Hires Attolico, Di Stefano for Italy Investment Bank
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-10-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/citi-hires-attolico-di-stefano-for-italy-investment-bank.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  hired Pierpaolo di Stefano and Leopoldo Attolico to run investment banking in  Italy 
as the euro-region’s third-largest economy emerges from
recession.  Attolico, 50, joins from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , where he was
vice chairman of investment banking for Italy, while Di Stefano
was hired from  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , where he oversaw Italian
investment banking. Both report to Luigi de Vecchi, chairman of
corporate and investment banking for continental Europe, and to
Renzo Arcoria, Italy country officer.  “We have important ambitions in Europe, and Italy is a
market in which we need to boost our presence,” de Vecchi, who
joined New York-based Citigroup this year, said in an interview
yesterday. “The market is incredibly interesting and should
yield great satisfaction over the next few years” as companies,
banks and the government engage in deal making, he said.  Citigroup’s European chief, Jim Cowles, said in April he
sees U.S. universal banks gaining market share in investment
banking because they can absorb the rising cost of regulation
better than European peers. To capture the business, Citigroup,
the third-biggest U.S. lender, is reorganizing staff and hiring
senior bankers while reducing total employment and costs.  Di Stefano and Attolico fill a position that was covered
temporarily by other bankers after Pierluigi Colizzi left last
year for London-based Barclays Plc.  Mergers involving Italian companies totaled $41 billion
this year, up from about $26 billion in the same period last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In September, Italian
business confidence rose to the highest in two years, a sign of
optimism that the economy will emerge from a recession by the
end of 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  