-- Cooper Tire Wins Fast-Track Handling in Apollo Tyres Case
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-10-09T23:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/cooper-tire-wins-fast-track-handling-in-apollo-tyres-case.html
Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB)  got a
Delaware judge to fast-track its dispute over  Apollo Tyres
Ltd. (APTY) ’s proposed $2.5 billion takeover, possibly setting up the
case for trial in early November.  Cooper asked Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock at a
telephone hearing from Georgetown, Delaware, today for speedy
handling of its suit against Apollo, which had agreed to pay
$35 a share for Cooper and now seeks a lower price. Glasscock
said he could see a trial taking place early next month.  “It’s obvious that irreparable harm is threatened here”
with financing allegedly in jeopardy, Glasscock said. “It’s
clear that expedition is justified.”  Cooper, based in Findlay,  Ohio , said June 12 it would be
bought by Gurgaon, India-based Apollo. When Apollo failed to
close the deal as scheduled on Oct 4., Cooper went to court to
enforce the buyout agreement.  In its complaint, Cooper contends Apollo agreed to use its
“reasonable best efforts” to complete the transaction or pay a
$112.5 million “reverse breakup fee” to walk away.  Apollo has instead “breached its obligations” in the
buyout contract, Robert Faxon, a lawyer for Cooper, told the
judge. He said Cooper wants to close the deal “before Nov.
13.”  ‘No Basis’  Raymond DiCamillo, an attorney representing Apollo, said
there’s “no basis” to show his client breached the contract.
There’s adequate time to resolve the dispute without any fast-tracking, he said.  To get a lower buyout price, Apollo is dragging its feet in
negotiating an agreement with United Steelworkers unions, Cooper
contends in court papers, and must deal with a strike involving
a Cooper joint venture with  China ’s Chengshan Group Co.  “The situations with the United Steelworkers and the
joint venture partner and union in China are a direct result of
the merger agreement, and are risks Apollo assumed,” Cooper
officials said in an Oct. 7 statement.  Cooper said in court papers that under the merger contract
one circumstance that would allow Apollo to back out is a
“material adverse effect” -- something that alters the value
of the target business.  Apollo had agreed such effects would exclude disputes with
Cooper’s labor unions or partners, including Chengshan, Cooper
contends.  China Subsidiary  In a statement Oct. 6, Apollo officials said, “On top of
the United Steelworkers issue, Cooper has breached material
representations and covenants, including with respect to its
majority-owned China subsidiary due to the fact that Cooper has
no control over the subsidiary” or access to its records, all
of which poses ‘significant and unanticipated costs.’”  Cooper’s financial condition has deteriorated, according to
a confidential letter of Oct. 4 from Apollo officials to Cooper
General Counsel Stephen Zamansky, made public today in court
filings.  Apollo contends it sought financial projections and, in
July, Cooper said it expected $4.3 billion in revenues for 2013.
In August, the figure dropped to $3.9 billion and in September
to $3.6 billion, according to court papers. The latest figure in
the letter shows projected 2013 revenues of $3.4 billion,
leaving Apollo “confused and deeply concerned.”  Cooper told Apollo “deferred pricing actions impacted
sales volumes” and the decline would be remedied “by
overperformance later.”  Cooper fell more than 12 percent Oct. 7 in  New York 
 trading . The shares fell 2.23 percent to $25.91 in trading
today.  The case is Cooper Tire v. Apollo, CA8980,  Delaware 
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  