-- Copper-Ore Growth Seen by Freeport Driving Treatment Fees Higher
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-10-09T11:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/copper-ore-growth-seen-by-freeport-driving-treatment-fees-higher.html
Higher inventories of semi-processed
copper ore are driving up charges levied by smelters to treat
the metal, according to  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the
world’s second-largest copper miner.  Fees to process so-called concentrate are rising because
smelters shut for maintenance, reducing output, and more supply
from mines is coming to the market, IntierraRMG said in a report
this week. The charges exceed $100 a metric ton and 10 cents a
pound, according to the Toronto-based researcher.  Smelters including Freeport’s Atlantic Copper unit, KGHM
Polska Miedz SA, Boliden AB and Aurubis AG have closed plants
for maintenance this year. They don’t need to buy concentrate
because their inventories are at a “good level,” said Javier Targhetta, Phoenix-based Freeport’s senior vice president of
marketing and sales. Reducing stockpiles will take “a few
months” as smelters restart, he said in an interview.  “The coinciding shutdown of big smelters means there is a
big tonnage of concentrate not being smelted,” Targhetta said
yesterday in London. “It could have been somewhat accumulation
of inventories here and there, and certainly that’s what’s
driving very high spot prices that we’ve seen.”  World supply of mined copper will expand no less than 4
percent annually in the 2012-16 period,  Standard Bank  said this
week in a report, compared with less than 1 percent in four of
the six years before 2012. Mines from  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s Oyu
Tolgoi in Mongolia to Vale SA’s Salobo in  Brazil  are adding
production. Supply gains may be offset by increased smelting
capacity in  China , the world’s largest producer of refined
copper, Targhetta said.  Better Balance  “I would accept we are getting into a more balanced
situation compared to previous years, where there was an excess
of concentrate,” he said. “There may be a balance or slight
excess of concentrate, but not the biggest excess.”  Targhetta spoke during  LME Week , an annual industry
gathering under the aegis of the  London  Metal Exchange during
which supply contracts are discussed. Smelters will likely seek
processing fees of $100 a ton and 10 cents a pound, according to
IntierraRMG. The costs are known in the industry as treating and
refining charges, or TC/RCs.  “We have not thrown any proposed price on the table, any
level or specifically any TC/RC level,” Targhetta said. “We
are just meeting our customers and exchanging views.”  The treating fees are expressed in dollars per ton of
concentrate received and refining fees in cents per pound of
copper in the ore. The charges are deducted from prices paid by
smelters to mining companies for concentrate.  60 Days  Atlantic Copper’s smelter in Huelva,  Spain , will restart at
the beginning of next month after shutting for 60 days for
maintenance, said Targhetta, who also is the unit’s president.  Copper demand has yet to respond to bullish economic data
from  Europe , according to Targhetta. While the metal for
delivery in three months fell 9.2 percent this year on the LME,
heading for a second annual retreat in three, prices gained the
most in 18 months in the third quarter.  “I am very positive regarding the strength of copper,”
Targhetta said. “The recovery in the U.S. is a fact. There are
promising signs in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  