-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall; Carnival Sells $700 Million in Notes
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-09T21:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-carnival-sells-700-million-in-notes.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
fell as a partial government shutdown stretched into a second
week.  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  issued $700 million in seven-year notes.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.1
basis points to 83.4 basis points at 4:32 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are waiting for signs of a possible resolution to
the  federal budget  and the debt ceiling impasse. The
congressional stalemate may temper optimism over President
 Barack Obama ’s nomination today of  Janet Yellen  as chairman of
the  Federal Reserve ,  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income
strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York, wrote in an e-mail.  “Look for any tightening in spreads to be short-lived as
the contentious and growing, anxious debt ceiling problem
persists,” Miller wrote.  Yellen supported the central bank’s bond buying programs
and was a force behind a new strategy adopted in 2012 to commit
the Fed to goals on inflation and unemployment.  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and climbs as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Carnival Sale  Carnival, the world’s largest cruise-ship operator, sold
the 3.95 percent senior unsecured notes to yield 195 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Proceeds from the sale will be used for general corporate
purposes and to repay debt maturing through May 2014, Carnival
said in a  filing  today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The debt is rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service and
BBB+ by  Standard & Poor’s , Bloomberg data show.  Moody’s Covenant Quality Index for U.S. high-yield bond
offerings rose to 4.05 in September, a record for the measure,
according to a report yesterday from the ratings company.  The index gauges covenant quality on a five-point scale
with 5 signifying the weakest bondholder protection and 1
signifying the strongest.  The Markit CDX North American High Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade bonds, fell 5.8 basis
points to 400.3 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries tightened 0.2 basis point to 133.1
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 11.5 to 658.7.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  