-- Crude Declines as U.S. Inventories Grew Most in a Year
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-10-09T19:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/crude-extends-drop-as-u-s-inventories-increase.html
West Texas Intermediate declined
after a government report showed U.S. inventories grew by the
most in a year as refineries reduced crude processing.  Prices capped the biggest drop in four weeks after the
Energy Information Administration said  supplies  rose 6.81
million barrels last week, more than four times the median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The refinery
 operating rate  decreased to 86 percent, a five-month low. WTI
also fell as talks to end the government shutdown and lift the
debt ceiling remained deadlocked.  “The size of the build is pretty significant,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “The rising crude stocks are
certainly suggestive of downward prices. The deadlock does raise
the threat of tipping us over to a recession.”  WTI for November delivery slid $1.88, or 1.8 percent, to
$101.61 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
biggest one-day loss since Sept. 10. The price was $101.95
before the EIA report came out at 10:30 a.m. The volume of all
futures traded was 6.1 percent above the 100-day average.  Brent for November settlement fell $1.10, or 1 percent, to
$109.06 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Trading was 12 percent above the 100-day average. The
European benchmark was at a premium of $7.45 to WTI versus $6.67
yesterday.  Crude Supplies  Crude supplies increased to 370.5 million barrels in the
week ended Oct. 4, the most since July 5, the EIA, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm, said in the report.  The refinery utilization rate dropped to the lowest level
since April 26 from 89 percent the previous week. Units are
usually idled for maintenance after the peak summer gasoline-demand season, which ended with Labor Day on Sept. 2.  Refiner
net input  fell to 14.9 million barrels a day.  “The over-6-million-barrel build is bearish,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of commodities research at IAF Advisors in
Houston. “We have the continuing budget problems.”  Domestic  production  climbed to 7.81 million barrels a day.
Output has boomed as the combination of horizontal drilling and
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, unlocked shale supplies in
the central part of the country.  Cushing Slips  Crude inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for WTI futures, dropped 168,000 barrels to 32.6 million. The
14-week decline is the longest since EIA began keeping records
for Cushing in 2004. Stockpiles there have been decreasing as
improved pipeline networks and rail moved more crude out of
Cushing or directly to  Gulf Coast  refineries.  “People are becoming accustomed to Cushing stock levels
now,” Lynch said. “So it’s not necessarily bullish for the
market.”  Gasoline stockpiles  rose 149,000 barrels to 219.9 million
and  distillates , which include diesel and heating oil, fell 3.14
million to 126 million, the EIA said.  “The bears are in control now,” said Bill Baruch, a
senior market strategist at Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “Growth
may be handicapped by the government shutdown and there is
demand worry.”  Possible paths out of the partisan impasse in  Washington 
are starting to emerge as the U.S. government enters the ninth
day of a partial shutdown, with less than a week before U.S.
 borrowing authority  lapses Oct. 17. Lawmakers remain far from an
agreement amid verbal sparring between President  Barack Obama 
and House Speaker  John Boehner .  Debt Battle  Republican lawmakers have sought spending cuts and changes
in the health-care law in exchange for an agreement to reopen
the government and raise the debt limit.  Obama opened the door to talks with Republicans on topics
ranging from health care to entitlement programs if they end the
standoff over the U.S. debt ceiling. Boehner insisted on
immediate negotiations, rejecting the president’s stance that
he’ll talk only after the shutdown ends and the risk of default
is pushed back.  Crude also fell as the  U.S. dollar  gained, reducing oil’s
investment appeal. The Bloomberg  Dollar Index  rose 0.4 percent.  WTI may move below $100 in the fourth quarter as a
potential supply glut in the Houston area weighs on prices,
Francisco Blanch, head of commodities research at Bank of
America Corp. in  New York , said in a report.  Crude  supplies  in the Gulf Coast, known as PADD 3,
increased to 188.6 million barrels, the most since June 21.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 21.9 percent, little changed from 21.8 percent
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 560,789
contracts as of 2:44 p.m. It totaled 493,672 contracts
yesterday, 17 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.87 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  