-- Crude Falls Before Inventory Report Amid U.S. Standoff
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-10-09T13:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/crude-falls-before-inventory-report-amid-u-s-standoff.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
before a government report that may show U.S. stockpiles grew
for a third week and as talks to end the government shutdown and
lift the debt ceiling remained deadlocked.  Prices dropped as much as 1.1 percent. Crude  inventories 
may have gained 1.55 million barrels last week, a Bloomberg
survey showed before an Energy Information Administration
report. Republican lawmakers have sought spending cuts and
changes in the health-care law in exchange for an agreement to
reopen the government and raise the debt limit.  “Everybody is waiting for the EIA report,” said Bill Baruch, a senior market strategist at Iitrader.com in  Chicago .
“Growth may be handicapped by the government shutdown and there
is demand worry. The bears are in control now.”  WTI for November delivery slid $1.13, or 1.1 percent, to
$102.36 a barrel at 9:22 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. The volume of all futures traded was about 44 percent
below the 100-day average.  Brent for November settlement fell $1.10, or 1 percent, to
$109.06 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Trading was 10 percent below the 100-day average. The
European benchmark was at a premium of $6.70 to WTI versus $6.67
yesterday.  U.S.  crude inventories  rose to 365.3 million in the week
ended Oct. 4, the Bloomberg survey showed. The total would be
the most since July 12. The survey also showed gasoline
stockpiles increased 1.05 million barrels and distillates
decreased by 1.15 million.  API Report  The  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday that crude
stockpiles climbed 2.8 million barrels. The API collects supply
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm, for its weekly survey.  Possible paths out of the partisan impasse in  Washington 
are starting to emerge as the U.S. government enters the ninth
day of a partial shutdown, with less than a week before U.S.
 borrowing authority  lapses Oct. 17. Each option is tentative and
lawmakers remain far from an agreement amid verbal sparring
between President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner .  Obama opened the door to talks with Republicans on topics
ranging from health care to entitlement programs if they end the
impasse over the U.S. debt ceiling. Boehner insisted on
immediate negotiations, rejecting the president’s stance that
he’ll talk only after the shutdown ends and the risk of default
is pushed back.  The U.S. is the world’s largest oil user, accounting for 21
percent of global consumption last year, according to BP Plc’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  Crude also fell as the  U.S. dollar  gained, reducing oil’s
investment appeal. The Bloomberg  Dollar Index  rose 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  