-- Cuban Gave SEC Papers Used Against Him, Investigator Says
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-09T17:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/cuban-gave-sec-papers-used-against-him-investigator-says.html
Mark Cuban  furnished the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission with papers that are now
being used against him in its insider-trading case, an SEC
investigator said in testimony played for a jury.  The billionaire owner of pro basketball’s  Dallas Mavericks 
is accused of using nonpublic information received from the
chief executive officer of a Canadian  Internet company  to avoid
a $750,000 loss in 2004. The trial of the civil suit in U.S.
District Court in  Dallas  started Sept. 30.  The investigator, Alton Turner, said he interviewed Cuban
by phone a day after he sold his shares in the company,
Mamma.com, about its possible involvement with a stock promoter
who had pleaded guilty to concealing his ownership interest in a
discount brokerage firm.  “Was he cooperative?” Cuban defense attorney Christopher
Clark asked Turner during the June 2012 deposition.  “Yes, he answered my questions,” Turner said.  Turner testified that he contacted Cuban as part of an
investigation into the possible involvement of Irving Kott in
Mamma.com and whether there was stock manipulation at the
Montreal-based company now known as Copernic Inc.  Earlier in the trial Cuban said his concern about Kott,
whose guilty plea was entered in May 2004, was one of the
reasons he sold his Mamma.com stock.  The shares sold for $7.9 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Notes taken by Turner mentioned Cuban’s concerns about
Kott, according to testimony heard today by the 10-member jury.  Stock Sale  They also reflected the billionaire’s sale of all of his
Mamma.com shares and the fact that no lawyer for Cuban was
present during the telephone interview with Turner.  Turner testified that he asked Cuban the day after their
discussion to send to him all documents and e-mails Cuban had in
his possession regarding Mamma.com.  Cuban began sending them on July 2, 2004, and sent more
documents later in the month, Turner said.  Among those was a June 28 e-mail message from Mamma.com CEO
Guy Faure asking Cuban to call him.  In the ensuing phone call, the SEC alleges, Cuban agreed to
accept confidential information about the company’s plans to
issue stock through a private placement that would dilute his
holdings.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-02050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in the federal courthouse in Dallas
at  tkorosec@texaswordworks.com .;
Andrew Harris in the federal courthouse in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 