-- Darden Rises as Barington Pushes Changes
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-10-09T20:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/darden-rises-on-report-barington-plans-to-push-breakup.html
Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , owner of the
Olive Garden and Red Lobster dining chains, rose the most in
more than two years as Barington Capital Group LP took a stake
in the company to press for changes.  The shares rose 7.1 percent to $49.57 at the close in  New
York  for the biggest  gain  since August 2011. Darden, based in
 Orlando ,  Florida , has advanced 10 percent this year, compared
with a 16 percent increase for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index.  Barington, a New York-based hedge fund, represents a group
of investors that  owns  more than 2 percent of Darden’s
outstanding common stock, a Barington spokesman, who asked not
to be named because it is the company’s policy, said in an
interview.  “Barington has met and had follow-up discussions with
members of Darden’s senior management team,” the spokesman said
in an e-mailed statement. “Darden has the potential to deliver
significantly higher returns to shareholders and anticipate
continuing our ongoing dialog regarding measures to improve the
company’s financial and share price performance.”  Darden has spoken with Barington and will evaluate its
suggestions, just as it does for all shareholders, Rich Jeffers,
a spokesman for the restaurant chain, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The Wall Street Journal reported on the stake earlier today
and said Barington plans to press Darden to split into two
companies: one with its high-growth chains such as Capital
Grille and the other with established brands Red Lobster and
 Olive Garden . The investor also is urging the company to cut
costs faster, the newspaper reported.  Affordable Fare  Darden Chief Executive Officer Clarence Otis has been
introducing more affordable fare at the company’s restaurants to
attract diners who are eating out less as confidence falls.
Consumer sentiment declined to a five-month low in September as
Americans’ views on the economy dimmed.  Last month, Darden reported fiscal first- quarter  profit
that trailed analysts’ estimates as sales fell at Olive Garden
and Red Lobster, its largest brands. Same-store sales dropped 4
percent at Olive Garden and 5.2 percent at Red Lobster.  “If they want to unlock value from some of their faster-growing brands, there could be an argument” for breaking up the
company,  Stephen Anderson , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in
New York, said in an interview. “I think there will be a
turnaround in the business even if there’s no external catalyst
like a breakup.”  Standard & Poor’s on Oct. 2 lowered Darden’s corporate
credit rating to BBB-, the lowest investment-grade rating, from
BBB, citing “relatively soft” sales and earnings trends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  