-- David Finkel Follows Soldiers Home From Baghdad: Books
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2013-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/david-finkel-follows-soldiers-home-from-baghdad-books.html
To his 2006 Pulitzer Prize,
Washington Post writer David Finkel last year added a MacArthur
Foundation “genius” grant. In between he reported and wrote a
brilliant book about the Iraq War called “ The Good Soldiers .”  A sad, bitter, eloquent chronicle of 12 months embedded
with soldiers in “a sorry, bomb-filled” Baghdad neighborhood
called Kamaliyah, it now has an equally fine sequel in “ Thank
You for Your Service .”  Finkel follows some of the troops from the 2-16 Infantry
Battalion home to the U.S., where relatives, therapists and
Washington can barely cope with these warriors’ wounds, many of
them psychological. Their deployment, part of  George Bush ’s
“surge,” exposed them to frequent explosive devices designed
to cruelly maim and kill or leave the brain damaged by shock
waves and terror.  “And yet day after day they would go out anyway, which
eventually came to be what the war was about,” Finkel writes.
“Not winning. Not losing. Nothing so grand. Just trying until
it was time to go home and discovering that life after the war
turned on trying again.”  Cases of PTSD (post-traumatic stress disorder) and TBI
(traumatic brain injury) went to the WTU (Warrior Transition
Unit) until the large numbers forced a label change to WTB (B
for battalion). There’s no abbreviation for suicide.  Two Million  “Two million Americans were sent to fight in Iraq and
 Afghanistan ,” Finkel writes. “Home now, most of them describe
themselves as physically and mentally healthy.” The less
fortunate amount to “500,000 mentally wounded American
veterans.”  One soldier takes 43 pills a day for pain, anxiety,
depression and nightmares. These might include Zoloft,
Trazodone, Lunesta, Abilify, Concerta (and you might recognize
them from TV ads with lists of lousy side effects).  In a rare light moment a therapist asks if the soldier
is taking Concerta, for attention deficit and memory. “‘Yes,’
he says sheepishly. ‘I forgot to bring it.’”  Another break in the book’s grimness comes with the menu
planning for a dinner given by General Peter Chiarelli, U.S.
Army vice chief of staff, who led efforts to reduce suicide by
“getting every single person in official  Washington  to pay
attention to soldier mental health issues.” (Chiarelli
continues to work on mental illness as head of  One Mind for
Research .)  Suicides Rising  The dinner’s theme was to be suicide; it’s canceled when
key guests back out. After Chiarelli retires, Finkel writes,
“the number of suicides will keep rising until it is exceeding
the number of combat deaths and averaging almost one a day.”  Finkel seems to have embedded with a few families, given
the depth and detail of his writing. Adam Schumann is 28 as the
book starts, a veteran of three tours who returns mentally
broken from the third to a wife and two children. He was
described “as one of the best soldiers in the battalion” and
one of the older ones, given the 2-16’s average age of 19.  Schumann’s battle against mental damage, bureaucracy,
varieties of therapy, financial pressures and family demands is
summed up simply: “Out of one war into another.”  Finkel also reveals the burdens and pain borne by the
soldiers’ wives, who endure months and years of moods, threats,
violence and seemingly pointless therapy. Schumann’s wife can’t
believe she has to hold the family together in  Kansas  while Adam
flies off for months to “a beautiful, tranquil residential
environment in the  Napa Valley .”  Pathway Home  It’s a place called the  Pathway Home , started by a man
working with Vietnam vets whose childhood was scarred by a
returning soldier: “When Fred Gusman was little, his father
came home from World War II and began beating him with a belt.”  For Schumann, Pathway seems to work. It’s unclear for how
long, but I took heart, in a book that can tear that organ to
pieces, from the last of Finkel’s generally bleak black-and-white photos.  The caption “Home” sits under a small front lawn and a
small frame house. It’s what soldiers dream of until the
nightmares deploy, and it’s where the Schumanns are headed from
Napa, to try again to win the other war.  “Thank You for Your Service” is published by Sarah
Crichton Books/Farrar, Straus & Giroux (256 pages, $26). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on TV and  Ryan
Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 