-- DBRS Places U.S.’s AAA Credit Rating Under Review for Downgrade
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-09T20:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/dbrs-places-u-s-s-aaa-credit-rating-under-review-for-downgrade.html
The U.S.’s top AAA credit ranking was
put on review “with negative implications” by DBRS Inc., which
cited the government’s failure to raise the federal debt limit.  The Toronto-based ratings company took the action as a
deadlock in  Washington  kept the U.S. government partially shut
for a ninth day and a debt deadline approached. Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew has told Congress extraordinary measures
being used to avoid breaching the $16.7 trillion  debt ceiling 
“will be exhausted no later than Oct. 17” and the department
will have about $30 billion in cash to pay obligations.  “This action reflects the growing risk of a selective
default by the federal government,” DBRS said in an e-mailed
statement. The move “reflects the increasing uncertainty over
the debt-ceiling outcome, combined with the potential lingering
repercussions on both domestic and international investor
sentiment, and therefore the  U.S. economy  and financial
markets.”  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its top credit grade
on Aug. 5, 2011, citing Washington gridlock and the lack of an
agreement on a way to contain its growing ratio of debt to gross
domestic product. The ratio of public debt to GDP is projected
to decline to 74.6 percent in 2015 after peaking next year at
76.2 percent, according to a  Congressional Budget Office 
forecast in May.  A missed U.S. debt payment would spur a selective-default
rating, “as long as we expect the Treasury to meet its other
obligations in a timely manner,” DBRS said. “If there is a
full-fledged default involving a wide array of securities, the
magnitude of the downgrade would be greater,” the company said.  Fundamentals ‘Strong’  “The fundamentals of the U.S. remain strong,” Fergus McCormick, head of the sovereign-ratings group in New York at
DBRS, said in a telephone interview. “There is an off chance
that we could be seeing a default on selection of securities by
the  U.S. Treasury . As a result, we thought it most prudent to
let investors know that the risk of a default has actually
increased.”  Fitch Ratings  reiterated on Oct. 1 that its AAA rating for
the U.S. is taking into account the political debate over
raising the debt ceiling.  Moody’s Investors Service, which assigns the U.S. a stable
Aaa ranking, said in September it expects the debt ceiling to be
raised, averting a default.  While the S&P downgrade didn’t result in investors charging
the U.S. more to borrow, as 10-year yields slipped to a record
1.38 percent in July 2012, the move contributed to a global
stock-market rout that erased about $6 trillion in value from
July 26 to Aug. 12, 2011.  Yields on Treasuries due in 10 years have increased since
then to 2.66 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  