-- Deficit Inertia in U.S., Japan Curbs Global Debt Cuts, IMF Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-10-09T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/deficit-inertia-in-u-s-japan-curbs-global-debt-cuts-imf-says.html
The lack of detailed plans for
 deficit reduction  in  Japan  and the U.S. combined with weak
economic growth runs counter to efforts to cut the global debt
burden, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “The absence of well-specified medium-term adjustment
plans in systemic economies like Japan and the  United States 
complicate the task,” the Washington-based IMF said in its
Fiscal Monitor report released today. “At the same time, fiscal
vulnerabilities are on the rise in emerging market economies and
low-income countries”.  The IMF yesterday cut its global outlook for this year and
next and warned that a U.S. government default would “seriously
damage” the world economy. Growth worldwide will be 2.9 percent
this year and 3.6 percent next year, compared with July
predictions of 3.1 percent for 2013 and 3.8 percent for 2014.  The world’s largest economy may face the risk of default
and is operating under a partially shut government.
Congressional leaders have been unable to agree on fiscal policy
and a debt limit increase and Republicans have demanded changes
in the Affordable Care Act in exchange for allowing the federal
agencies to reopen.  “Although a short period of government shutdown would
likely have limited impact, a longer period could be more
damaging,” the IMF said in today’s report. “A failure to
promptly raise the debt ceiling could have even more serious
consequences.”  Smallest Deficit  The U.S. is on track to record the smallest annual deficit
in five years as accelerating economy and payroll tax increase
boosted receipts in 2013, while across-the-board  federal budget 
cuts known as sequestration have kept spending in check. In the
first 11 months of the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, the
deficit was $755.3 billion,  the narrowest  since 2008, the
Treasury Department said on Sept. 12.  The IMF report today said the U.S. is failing to address
entitlement programs, which it called “key drivers of long-term
deficits.”  The growth in  U.S. debt  over the coming decades will be
primarily caused by an aging population that will strain
benefits including Medicare and Social Security, the
 Congressional Budget Office  said on Sept. 17.  “A fundamental  tax reform  aimed at simplifying the  tax
code  and broadening the base by reducing exemptions and
deductions, as well as at higher taxation of fossil fuels, could
provide new revenue,” the IMF said.  U.S. Forecast  The IMF yesterday cut its growth forecast for the U.S. to
1.6 percent this year and 2.6 percent next year, each 0.1
percentage point less than forecast in July. For Japan, the IMF
maintained forecasts of 2 percent growth this year and 1.2
percent next year.  While the fund praised the recent decision by Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to increase the  sales tax  to 8 percent
from 5 percent, the IMF called for an in-depth plan for cutting
the nation’s primary deficit in half by 2015.  “Japan stands out as the country facing the most
challenging consolidation,” the IMF said.  Some advanced economies have limited scope to raise more
revenue and those that already have high taxes should cut
spending to limit debt, the IMF also said.  “In emerging market economies and low-income countries,
where the potential for raising revenue is often substantial,
improving compliance remains a central challenge,” the IMF
said. “Recognition that the international tax framework is
broken is long overdue.”  Strengthening the international tax rules would be
especially beneficial for  developing countries , which rely on
corporate taxes from international companies, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  