-- Desalitech Says Dead Sea Works Desalination Rate to Rise 50%
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2013-10-09T15:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/desalitech-says-dead-sea-works-desalination-rate-to-rise-50-.html
Desalitech Inc. , a developer of
desalination and industrial water-treatment technologies, is
increasing the production rate of Dead Sea Works Ltd.’s reverse-osmosis system by 50 percent.  Desalitech, founded in  Israel  and based in Newton,
 Massachusetts , said today that the closed-circuit plant it
designed for the Dead Sea unit of minerals harvester  Israel
Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  now yields 100 gallons of purified water per
minute for drinking water and pharmaceutical manufacturing.  The closed-circuit reverse-osmosis system, run by
 Environmental Protection Technologies Ltd . of Israel, purifies
brackish water that’s been clogged with algae and solids near
the site including debris from the desert, Rick Stover, a
Desalitech executive vice president, said by e-mail. EPT will
start offering the system globally. Terms weren’t disclosed.  The expansion will help Desalitech tap a desalination
market expected to reach $22 billion by 2018, double the current
market, according to International Desalination Association
estimates. About 60 percent of current desalination capacity is
for seawater and 21 percent for brackish waters.  In reverse osmosis, water is forced by pressure through
semi-permiable membranes, leaving behind dissolved and
particulate materials. In a closed circuit system, batches are
put through the system without stopping pumps using a lower
average membrane feed pressure and less energy consumption,
according to Desalitech.  “Desalitech’s high-recovery water systems provide a better
solution in challenging conditions” than  traditional reverse-osmosis , Yechiel Menuchin, EPT’s chief executive officer, said
in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net  