-- Diesel Flow to Europe to Cap Winter Price Surge
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-10-09T04:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/diesel-flow-to-europe-to-cap-winter-price-surge.html
Diesel producers from  India  to the
U.S. are boosting shipments to Europe to take advantage of the
region’s lowest winter  stockpiles  in at least six years, capping
gains in prices for the continent’s most-used auto fuel.  India exported the most in nine years during August,
according to government data, while U.S. vessel charters rose to
the highest in at least a year last quarter. First-half Russian
sales to Europe have jumped 33 percent this year, data from the
International Energy Agency show. The imports will prevent any
repetition of shortages that caused prices to  jump  in the past
two winters, even as Europe’s refiners cut output, according to
all but one of nine executives surveyed by Bloomberg.  The increased shipments show how Europe’s waning refining
operations are leaving it more dependent on companies such as
India’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  of the
U.S. for a fuel that powers 55 percent of the region’s vehicles.
Curbed prices also stand to hurt profit at refiners from  Saras
SpA (SRS)  of Italy to Spain’s  Repsol SA (REP) , while helping consumers.  “Europe will be able to draw quite heavily on higher
volumes of diesel from the Asia-Pacific in the coming months,”
Sabine Schels, a commodity strategist at Bank of America Corp.
in London, said by phone Oct. 4. “With fewer diesel barrels
demanded at home, a lot of these Asian countries, including
India, have already boosted exports.”  Winter Peaks  The  premium  paid for diesel barges over the ICE Futures
Europe gasoil contract soared during the past two winter seasons,
climbing as high as $64 a metric ton more than the benchmark in
October 2011 and November last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It was about $26 on Oct. 7, equating to an
outright price of $951.75 a ton, the data show.  Profits from converting crude into diesel, as approximated
by the “crack spread” between gasoil and Brent crude futures,
will stay near current levels this winter, or about 30 percent
below the previous season’s peak, five of the refining
executives in the Bloomberg survey said. The Sept. 19 poll
included plant managers and vice presidents of companies from
 Italy  to  Poland . The  crack spread  averaged $15 a barrel during
the past month, compared with $20 one year ago.  With Europe now exiting its recession, there’s hope for the
region’s refiners that fuel use will pick up, said Seth Kleinman,
head of energy strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  “The European economy appears to be going through a
recovery, which should result in some stronger consumption
demand,” he said Sept. 19.  A jump in European demand may entice local refiners to
boost output, limiting imports from the U.S., Vienna-based
researcher JBC Energy GmbH said in an Oct. 7 note.  Low Inventories  Inventories of gasoil, including heating oil and diesel, in
independent storage in Europe’s oil trading hub of Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp dropped to 2.01 million tons for the week to
Oct. 3, the lowest for this time of year since at least 2007,
according to PJK International BV, a Netherlands-based
researcher.  The winter diesel market in Europe “could be quite good”
as an export destination based on current stockpiles, Reliance
Chief Executive Officer Tony Fountain said at a conference in
 London  on Oct. 2. Mumbai-based Reliance operates the world’s
largest refining complex.  Refiners in the region aren’t likely to boost processing
following seasonal maintenance because ample diesel imports are
set to cap their profit margins, Gemma Parker, an analyst at
Facts Global Energy in London, said by phone Sept. 27. Europe is
idling as much as 1.2 million barrels a day, or 8 percent of its
refining capacity, for maintenance in September and October,
according to the Paris-based IEA.  Indian Influx  Exports from India climbed in August to the most in 10
months, also the highest level for this time of the year since
at least 2004, according to data from the country’s Ministry of
Petroleum and Natural Gas.  Domestic consumption was lower than expected in India, as
the currency in the world’s second most-populous nation lost
almost one-third of its value against the dollar in the four
months through the end of August, while its refining output
continued to grow, according to the IEA.  U.S. refiners currently have about a $2-a-barrel advantage
over their European counterparts as surging crude production
provides them with cheaper feedstock, Torbjorn Tornqvist, chief
executive officer of Gunvor Group Ltd., said Oct. 1 in a speech
at the Oil & Money conference in London.  Plant Closures  “I expect the next two years we will see probably five,
six plants being closed” in Europe, accounting for about
500,000 to 700,000 barrels a day of refining capacity, he said.
Gunvor, an oil-trading company with offices in Cyprus and Geneva,
bought refineries in Belgium and  Germany  last year from
Petroplus Holdings AG, Europe’s largest independent refiner
before it became insolvent.  MOL Hungarian Oil & Gas Plc’s Mantova refinery in Italy
last week became the latest European facility to close, citing
the “unfavorable economic environment that the refining
business faces in Italy.” It joined 15 sites in the region to
have shut since 2008, according to the IEA.  Chartering of ships to  haul  diesel from the U.S. to Europe
climbed in the third quarter to the most since Bloomberg began
compiling the data last year, as refiners increase production
amid North America’s oil shale boom. Europe imports about 16
percent of the diesel it uses, IEA data show.  Russia , which supplied a third of Europe’s imported diesel
in 2012, according to the IEA, has also entered seasonal
maintenance, taking offline 21 percent of its refining capacity
in the week ended Oct. 2, according to the country’s Energy
Ministry. When the overhauls end in November, Russian flows of
the fuel will rebound, according to the survey of refining
executives.  Russian Diesel  Russia, the world’s largest oil producer, has doubled
exports of high-quality diesel to Europe this year to about
650,000 barrels a day, Facts Global’s Parker said. OAO Rosneft,
the world’s largest publicly traded oil producer by volume, is
spending $25 billion on refinery upgrades.  Diesel crack spreads below $15 a barrel were “extremely
disappointing for refineries that have all maximized diesel
production,” Dario Scaffardi, Saras’s executive vice president
and general manager, said on an Aug. 9 conference call.  Repsol spokesman Kristian Rix declined to comment on how
diesel supply affects the Spanish company and Massimo Vacca,
head of investor relations at Saras, didn’t return a phone call
and e-mail yesterday seeking comment.  Mild Weather  Milder-than-usual weather is forecast for the early part of
the European winter, potentially damping demand for heating
fuels, according to MDA, a Gaithersburg, Maryland-based
meteorologist.  “An early look at winter 2013-2014 shows a mild
temperature pattern being driven by warmer waters in the
Atlantic Ocean,” Bradley Harvey, an operational meteorologist
at MDA said Sept. 27 by e-mail. The second half of the winter
may yet be colder-than-normal as cold air is attracted from
Siberia, he said.  “Everything looked like things were going to be tight in
Europe this winter with production limited and stocks low,”
Jonathan Leitch, a London-based senior analyst at Wood Mackenzie,
said Sept. 27 by phone. “But now I don’t think there’s going to
be a pinch or shortage with the wave of cargoes from the U.S.
and Asia offsetting that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  