-- Draghi Says U.S. Critics Were Wrong to Think Euro Would Collapse
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-10-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/draghi-says-u-s-critics-were-wrong-to-think-euro-would-collapse.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said critics of the euro underestimated the region’s
political commitment to the single currency.  “Many commentators on this side of the Atlantic looked at
the euro area and were convinced it would fail,” Draghi said
during a speech at  Harvard University  today. “They mistook the
euro for fixed exchange-rate regime, when in fact it is an
irreversible single currency. It is irreversible because it is
born out of the commitment of European nations to closer
integration.”  After the turmoil that began with  Greece ’s bailout in 2010,
the euro area is emerging from its longest recession and leaders
are seeking to build a banking union that will make the region’s
financial system more robust. After lending banks more than 1
trillion euros ($1.35 trillion) in two long-term tenders and
pledging to buy an unlimited number of bonds of reform-ready
states, the ECB’s next step is to become the supervisor of the
region’s largest banks starting next year.  “The changes taking place in the euro area are making our
monetary union more robust,” Draghi said. “At the European
level, we are approaching a balance of competencies which, taken
in combination, should provide more effective stabilization.”  “If we look at the U.S., we see that it strengthened its
union in different stages, with each stage eventually begetting
the next,” said the ECB president, who will take part in the
International Monetary Fund’s annual meetings in  Washington  this
week. “In Europe today, we are in some ways undergoing an
analogous process.”  Banking Union  Draghi said that Europe is attempting to remove the
national fault-lines that divide the banking sector, to create a
unified system to match the single currency.  “This means that one euro in a bank in any euro area
country has to be fully substitutable with a euro in another,”
he said. “The only way to achieve this is to remove the
differences in the banking system that can create fragmentation
along national lines -- and the most important difference is the
way banks are supervised and, when necessary, resolved by
national authorities.”  While the Frankfurt-based central bank is due to take up
supervision duties in the fourth quarter of 2014, policy makers
have also said they want  Europe ’s leaders to agree to a
centralized system to deal with failing lenders, with funds to
back it, to be ready at the same time.  “We trust that a single resolution mechanism will enter
into force by the beginning of 2015,” Draghi said.  Even if banking union smooths national differences, it
shouldn’t remove the disciplining function of the individual
sovereign-debt markets, he added.  “There is also a strong onus on governments to ensure that
sovereign debt performs its expected function in the financial
system -- that is, as a risk-free, safe asset,” Draghi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Cambridge, Massachusetts at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  