-- DreamWorks CEO Calls Netflix ‘Patron Saint’ to Animation Studio
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-10-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/dreamworks-ceo-calls-netflix-patron-saint-to-animation-studio.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  sees
its agreement to provide original content to  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  as
redefining the company behind the lovable green ogre “Shrek”
and crime-fighting “Kung Fu Panda.”  DreamWorks Animation is the first studio to provide
original family content to the streaming service -- 300 hours of
it -- in a move that makes Netflix “our patron saint,”
according to Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg .  “There’s not a minute of the day that I don’t think about
how we can exceed their expectations,” the 62-year-old said in
an interview yesterday in Cannes,  France , during Mipcom, the
annual television fair. “That’s our job as the supplier.”  The Netflix accord, signed in June, and another to supply
 Europe ’s biggest broadcaster, RTL Group SA, with content
illustrate a shift by DreamWorks Animation -- founded 19 years
ago by  Steven Spielberg ,  David Geffen  and Katzenberg -- and the
film world in general toward the small screen.  Film stars, producers and funders are increasingly drawn to
television, as demand for content surges to feed multiplying
numbers of channels and viewing platforms. TV viewership is
expanding with more people watching shows from Netflix, Hulu LLC
and other services on computer screens, tablets and smartphones.  “We reached a threshold a few years ago, that the
cornerstone foundation of the company -- the movie business --
was in extremely good shape,” Katzenberg said. “The place most
obvious to expand was the TV side of the business.”  ‘Breaking Bad’  Katzenberg, who previously worked at the Walt Disney Co.,
is seeking to cut the company’s dependence on films and double
TV production revenue to more than $200 million annually by
2015, he said. In addition to Netflix, he is exploring other
online viewing platforms. In May, it added a teen network on
Google Inc.’s YouTube called AwesomenessTV for $33 million.  Katzenberg offered the creators of  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) ’s hit
“Breaking Bad” $75 million for an extra 180 minutes of the
show, he said in a speech at Mipcom. His plan was to offer six-minute installments over 30 days via an Internet subscription,
for between 50 cents and 99 cents per episode. His point was to
prove viewers will pay for high quality even in shorter forms.  When Katzenberg saw how the series ended on Sept. 29, he
realized the extra episodes weren’t possible, he said.  Shares of the Glendale, California-based company fell 3.4
percent to $27.05 yesterday in  New York . The  shares  have gained
63 percent this year.  DreamWorks Animation plans to lower film budgets to an
average of $120 million each, from $150 million, through new
software that will be “fully deployed” for theatrical features
made from the fourth quarter of 2014, he said.  The company will continue to make  acquisitions  as
opportunities arise, Katzenberg said, while declining to cite
specific interests. DreamWorks Animation bought Classic Media,
owner of Casper and Lassie, for $155 million in 2012.  “We have a clean balance sheet and lots of capacity,” he
said.  “If there’s something that’s good business for us, we’ll
pursue it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  