-- Dubai’s Union Properties Climbs on Disposals, Expansion
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-10-09T11:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/dubai-s-union-properties-climbs-on-disposals-expansion.html
Union Properties PJSC (UPP) , a Dubai-based
developer, rose as much as 4.8 percent after an executive said
the company divested two hotels and plans to expand a
residential project.  The stock closed up 2.8 percent at 0.85 dirhams in Dubai.
The company swapped its The Courtyard by Marriott hotel for debt
owed to  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  and sold the Renaissance Dubai Hotel
to a developer for 290 million dirhams ($79 million), Ahmed Al
Marri, Union’s general manager, said in an interview yesterday
at the Cityscape Global property conference in Dubai.  Union Properties posted three years of  losses  after the
Dubai property market collapsed in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company returned to profit last year
after focusing on selling assets to pay creditors and
restructuring debts to reduce costs. Other divestments included
the Index Tower and Limestone House in the Dubai International
Financial Centre.  The developer plans to expand its Green Community project,
a joint venture with  Dubai Investments PJSC (DIC) , by adding 78 villas
as well as 135 homes, apartments and townhouses, Al Marri said.
The project will be funded with the company’s own resources and
the Union Properties has no fundraising plans for this year.  The hotel disposals took place earlier this year, Al Marri
said without being more specific. The Marriott was about 60
percent completed and the Renaissance was about 78 percent
finished when they were handed over, he estimated.  Union Properties shares have doubled in the last six
months, giving the company a market value of 2.85 billion
dirhams. The shares peaked at more than 4.8 dirhams in July
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  