-- The Miracle of Growth and ‘The Great Escape’
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-10-09T13:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/the-miracle-of-growth-and-the-great-escape-.html
In “ The Great Escape : Health, Wealth
and the Origins of Inequality,” Angus Deaton sets out to tell a
familiar story -- that of the long arc of global economic
advance -- in a fresh way. The author is an economics professor
at Princeton University, a renowned development economist and an
exceptionally gifted teacher. Even those familiar with his
accomplishments might be surprised by how brilliantly his book
succeeds.  The world, he emphasizes, is a vastly better place than it
was, and he shows that the usual preoccupation with growth in
measured output understates this astounding transformation.
Unusually, “The Great Escape” gives the same weight to
progress in health as it does to other measures of material
well-being. Health is where the changes wrought by economic
progress (especially in rich countries, but by no means confined
to them) have been most startling.  Consider this: In the U.K., until about 1900, adult life
expectancy -- the number of additional years a 15-year-old
person could expect to live -- was greater than  life expectancy
at birth . Despite having already lived 15 years, young adults
could look forward to a longer future than they could on the day
they were born. It’s a measure of how extraordinarily dangerous
it was to be young. A century later, a Briton’s chance of dying
in childhood is tiny, and the gap between life expectancy at
birth and adult life expectancy is almost the full 15 years it
would be if every child grew up to be an adult.  The book is full of smart statistical insights of this
kind, forcing you to reimagine the brutal past that the West has
left behind. The miracle of sustained economic growth re-emerges
in high definition, and the dully familiar becomes as awe-inspiring as it ought to have been all along.  Moral Imperative  “The Great Escape” also deals at length with the
countries that haven’t yet made the transition. “Almost a
billion people still live in material destitution, millions of
children still die through the accident of where they are born,
and wasting and stunting still disfigure the bodies of nearly
half of  India ’s children,” Deaton writes. Global inequality --
the consequence of the West’s acceleration -- is a call to
action. People in the rich West, Deaton argues, are under a
moral imperative to do what they can to help.  Yet Deaton is a foreign-aid skeptic, and he explains why.
The essential point was  crisply stated  more than 40 years ago by
Peter Bauer: “If all conditions for development other than
capital are present, capital will soon be generated locally, or
will be available to the government or to private businesses on
commercial terms from abroad, the capital to be serviced out of
higher tax revenues or from the profits of the enterprise. If,
however, the conditions for development are not present, then
aid -- which in these circumstances will be the only source of
external capital -- will be necessarily unproductive and
therefore ineffective.”  Deaton brings an unsurpassed yet lightly carried expertise
in statistical methodology to his discussion of the
effectiveness of aid. He traces the history of the controversy,
looking at the various arguments and changes in approach that
have been adopted from time to time. He’s for better aid
evaluation but isn’t much impressed by the grandiose claims made
by proponents of the current leading development fad, which
calls for randomized controlled trials of specific aid projects.  The randomistas, as they’re called, model their approach on
drug testing. They compare the results of an aid intervention in
one village or group of villages -- say, a new way of running
schools -- with a control group of otherwise similar villages
where the policy isn’t adopted. It’s all the rage in development
circles, but Deaton demurs. This method may tell you whether the
particular project in question succeeded, he says, yet reveal
little about whether the policy would succeed in general, which
is what you want to know. The experimental and control groups
are often too small; moreover, without a good understanding of
the other supporting factors, there’s no reason to think that
what succeeds in one place will work anywhere else.  ‘Negative Forces’  Deaton draws attention to “the irritating but frequently
encountered problem that projects do much better as experiments
than when rolled out for real.” Aid and aid-funded projects, he
goes on, “have undoubtedly done much good; the roads, dams and
clinics exist and would not have existed otherwise. But the
negative forces are always present; even in good environments
aid compromises institutions, it contaminates local politics and
it undermines democracy. If poverty and underdevelopment are
primarily consequences of poor institutions then, by weakening
those institutions or stunting their development, large aid
flows do exactly the opposite of what they are intended to do.”  If rich countries are morally obliged to help, as Deaton
says, what should they do? He looks much more favorably on aid
directed at improving health, because that can address specific
failures of market provision. Aid in the form of knowledge
rather than money is valuable, too. Rich countries’ investment
in research whose benefits would flow principally to poor
countries can be particularly effective, he argues.  Diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis are a case in
point. Their rarity in rich countries means there’s little
profit to be made in researching treatments or methods of
eradication. Advance market commitments (where governments and
aid-givers agree to buy drugs that are yet to be invented) and
other devices to bring rich countries’ purchasing power to poor
countries’ priorities are a fine idea.  Above all, Deaton argues, rich countries should stop
putting obstacles in the path of the development of poor
countries. Rich-country trade restrictions and farm subsidies
put poor countries at a disadvantage. Rules on intellectual
property rights need to be reformed so that they don’t unfairly
discriminate against the poor.  Freer immigration may be the best aid policy of all.
Migrants from poor to rich countries are better off than before,
and their remittances make their families back home better off
as well. These flows, which are almost  three times bigger  than
flows of aid, “can empower recipients to demand more from their
government, improving governance rather than undermining it.”  “The Great Escape” combines, to a rare degree, technical
sophistication, moral urgency, the wisdom of experience, and an
engaging and accessible style. It will deepen both your
appreciation of the miracle of modern economic growth and your
conviction that the benefits can and should be much more widely
enjoyed.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 