-- Leder’s Sun Capital Said to Struggle With $3 Billion Goal
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-10-09T16:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/leder-s-sun-capital-said-to-struggle-with-3-billion-goal.html
Sun Capital Partners, the private-equity firm co-founded by Marc Leder, is struggling to reach the
$3 billion goal for its latest fund, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  Sun Capital Partners VI LP had gathered about $1.7 billion
as of September, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. The pace has been slower
than anticipated for the  Boca Raton , Florida-based firm, which
initially had aimed to finish fundraising last year by December,
the people said.  Private-equity investors are paring down commitments to
focus on their most-preferred managers, making it harder for
many firms to raise money. Three prospective investors said they
decided to pass on Sun Capital’s latest fund mainly because of
publicity surrounding Leder, who is also co-chief executive
officer of the firm. Two of those investors also said they were
concerned that the fund would be too big to make the kind of
smaller deals that have been Sun Capital’s best performers in
the past.  “No portfolio manager wants to receive that call from the
chair of their board who, while surfing the news on their
morning commute, is hit in the face by an unflattering article
concerning a GP they just voted to back,” said Jake Elmhirst,
referring to a general partner, or manager of a fund. Elmhirst
is a New York-based managing director at  UBS Investment Bank  who
helps private-equity firms raise money, and isn’t an investor
with Sun Capital.  Romney Remarks  Tom Faust, a spokesman at Stanton Public Relations &
Marketing, declined to comment. Leder didn’t return an e-mail
seeking comment.  Leder, who made his fortune from turning around broken
companies from Boston Market to Captain D’s, made headlines last
year after hosting an event in his Florida home for then-Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney . The $50,000-a-plate fundraiser was where Romney said that almost half of
Americans felt entitled to  government aid . The New York Post
wrote in July that Leder has thrown parties at his summer rental
home in the Hamptons, drawing complaints from neighbors.  “I believe all Americans should have the opportunity to
succeed, to improve their lives, and to build even better lives
for their children,” Leder said in an e-mailed statement last
year, after news of the Romney remarks. “I have supported
people from both political parties who share this view and make
it a priority, even though their ideas on how to achieve it may
differ,” he said at the time.  Headline Risk  Investors in private-equity funds, such as public pension
funds and state retirement systems, tend to shy away from firms
that are the subject of negative news, known as headline risk.
Two of the three investors who considered Sun Capital’s new fund
had put money into the firm’s predecessor pool. One of those
clients said that backers don’t want to be associated with firms
generating negative publicity, which calls into question the
focus of the firm and its investment team.  The three investors asked not to be identified because
their manager-selection process is private.  A fourth investor, who also asked not to be named, said the
fund’s management team is strong and that the publicity tied to
Leder is a bad reason to decline investing in the fund.  While some prospective investors said they were concerned
about the size of the new fund, Sun Capital is seeking less than
the $6 billion it raised in 2007. The firm cut the size of that
fund in 2009 to $5 billion.  Private-equity firms typically take an average of 14 months
to complete fundraising, according to data from Preqin Ltd.
Funds of funds, which farm out money to private-equity pools,
were a big part of the prior vehicle’s investor base, and
haven’t been able to commit as much to the new offering,
according to people familiar with the matter.  Smaller Deals  The new fund will target smaller deals with an average
investment size of $30 million to $40 million, which means the
fund will hold a greater number of companies, said people with
knowledge of the matter. The increase in number of deals in the
fund will help protect against volatility and make the portfolio
more diverse, said the people.  During the financial crisis, several companies owned by Sun
Capital filed for bankruptcy, including Mervyn’s LLC, Lillian
Vernon Corp., Powermate Corp., Crafts Retail Holding Corp.,
Wickes Furniture Co. and Jevic Transportation Inc.  The firm has since been able to bring the value of its
prior fund above the costs of the investments. Sun Capital
Partners V LP was generating a 1.3 times multiple on invested
capital as of Aug. 31, according to performance data from
Oklahoma Police Pension & Retirement System.  Sun Capital has been able to generate some profits for
investors this year. The firm and Main Street Capital Holdings
in August sold Harry’s Fresh Foods to Joshua Green Corp. In
June, the firm stood to double its money on the sale of the
parent company of American Standard, a maker of bath and kitchen
products.  Sun Capital, which manages more than $10 billion,
participates in investments of underperforming companies,
turnarounds and special situations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  