-- Medtronic Enters Dialysis With Apollo Venture in India
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-09T13:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/medtronic-enters-dialysis-with-apollo-venture-in-india.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the world’s largest
maker of heart rhythm devices, will enter the kidney dialysis
business in collaboration with India’s Apollo Hospitals
Enterprise Ltd.  Medtronic is developing a new approach to hemodialysis,
which filters toxins from the blood of people with kidneys too
damaged to do the job. The companies will work to craft a system
by 2016 that functions well in the developing world, with a low-cost, portable approach that doesn’t rely heavily on
infrastructure, said Ven Manda, vice present of science,
technology and new therapies at Minneapolis-based Medtronic.  Access to treatment for end-stage kidney disease often
varies based on location, with patients in the U.S., Europe and
other developed countries getting  dialysis  with machines made by
companies including Fresenius Medical Care AG and  Baxter
International Inc. (BAX)  Patients in the developing world are less
likely to have access, and need options that don’t require as
much water and infrastructure, Manda said.  “In the case of hemodialysis, both the cost and lack of
mobility of current systems have made broader access to dialysis
treatment difficult and expensive,” Medtronic Chief Executive
Officer Omar Ishrak said in a statement.  Medtronic is investing 1.5 billion rupees ($24 million) to
develop and manufacture portions of the system in India. It’s
also starting a research and development team there to work with
Chennai, India-based Apollo Hospitals, one of the biggest
health-care providers in Asia.  Main Challenge  The two companies will customize the technology so it can
be taken from large cities into communities, villages and into
the home, Manda said, describing it as a smaller “laptop” type
system that’s lower cost and more agile. One main challenge will
be reducing the dependency on ultrapure water that’s required by
current dialysis machines.  “One of the first things we are addressing is the
dependency on high quantities of ultrapure water,” Manda said.
“There is hardly enough water to nourish human beings and get
food on the table.”  About 10 percent of adults in  India  suffer from kidney
disease and almost 200,000 patients develop end-stage disease
ever year. While patients need dialysis or a kidney transplant
to survive, many have limited access to the treatment because of
costs and other barriers to health care, the companies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  