-- Teenager Malala, Congo’s Mukwege Top Nobel Peace Contenders
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n   a n d   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-10-10T13:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/teenager-malala-congo-s-mukwege-top-nobel-peace-contenders.html
Malala Yousafzai, the Pakistani
teenager who took on the Taliban, and Congolese gynecologist
Denis Mukwege are among the top contenders for this year’s 
Nobel Peace Prize.  Favorites also include Russian activists Lyudmila Alexeyeva, Svetlana Gannushkina and Lilya Shibanova as well as
Mary Tarcisia Lakot, a Ugandan nun, according to bookmakers and
researchers. Myanmar President  Thein Sein , U.S. researcher Gene Sharp and imprisoned U.S. soldier Bradley Manning have also been
mentioned as potential winners of the prize that will be
announced tomorrow in Oslo.  Malala was shot in the head in  Pakistan ’s Swat Valley after
the 16-year-old defended equal rights to schooling for girls,
defying repeated threats from militants in her hometown of
Mingora. She now lives in the U.K. and has gained global
recognition for devoting her life to the struggle against
illiteracy, poverty and terrorism.  “It will make me proud to see a Pakistani win the Nobel,”
said Mujahid Khan, a rescue worker for the Peshawar-based Edhi
Foundation, a relief group. “People will see Pakistan through
her eyes, one who championed education, and not only as a center
of terrorism.”  Risking Life  The prize, along with literature, physics, medicine and
chemistry honors, was created by Swedish industrialist  Alfred Nobel  and first awarded in 1901. Laureates include last year’s
winner, the European Union, as well as U.S. President  Barack
Obama ,  Martin Luther King Jr . and Mother Teresa. The Norwegian
Nobel Committee selects the peace prize, while the rest are
handed out in  Stockholm . The economics prize was instituted by
the Swedish central bank in honor of Nobel.  Mukwege, 58, favored at 5-6 at bookmaker Paddy Power, is
the medical director of Panzi Hospital in Bukavu, the capital of
South Kivu province in eastern Congo, which has suffered nearly
two decades of conflict. He would be the fifth person from
 Africa  to receive the prize over past decade.  “He does a fantastic job in a conflict that has cost more
than 5 million lives, putting his own life at risk,” said Asle
Sveen, a historian and author of three books on the peace prize,
said by phone. “The most important effect besides recognizing
his role would be to turn the eyes of the international
community to the conflict in the Congo.”  Own Eyes  Mukwege founded Panzi in 1998 amid a war between Congo and
neighboring  Rwanda  that eventually engulfed a half-dozen other
African countries. The hospital offered obstetric care and
treatment for severe gynecological problems. Among its patients
are victims of sexual violence, a hallmark of Congo’s fighting.  “I constantly with my own eyes see the elder women, the
young girls, the mothers and even the babies dishonored,”
Mukwege told the UN General Assembly last year. “Many are
subjected to sexual slavery; others are used as a weapon of war.
Their organs are exposed to the most abhorrent ill-treatment.”  More than 500,000 women have been raped in Congo during the
years of conflict, according to Mukwege.  Malala is the top pick of Peace Research Institute Oslo,
which ranks contenders each year, and is tied for first at Paddy
Power with 5-6 odds. Former Ireland President Mary Robinson and
Bradley Manning, who’s serving a 35-year sentence for espionage,
and U.S. peace researcher Gene Sharp are all 25-1 at Paddy
Power.  Teenage Icon  In an interview with Karachi-based newspaper Dawn,
published yesterday, Malala said she hasn’t done enough to win
the prize and that she still has “a lot of work to do.”  Sveen, the historian, said Malala would be the youngest
winner ever of the peace prize.  “She’s already an icon, a role model not only for
uneducated girls in the Muslim world but in the whole world,”
he said. “She would be a fantastic role model: courageous and
incredibly articulate for a 16-year-old. It would inspire girls
in the whole world to get an education.”  The European Parliament today awarded Malala the Sakharov
Prize for freedom of thought, saying she bravely stands for the
right of all children to be granted a fair education.’’ The
Parliament picked Malala over four other finalists including
Edward Snowden, the former U.S. government security contractor
who disclosed secret espionage programs.  Sveen also favors Alexeyeva, who heads the Moscow Helsinki
Group, as well as Belarus dissident Ales Bialiatski.  The Oslo research institute’s fourth pick is Claudia Paz y
Paz, attorney general in  Guatemala , for leading charges of
genocide against former President General Efrain Ríos Montt. The
candidate list also includes UNESCO, Nigeria’s Archbishop John Onaiyekan and Sultan of Sokoto, Mohamed Sa’ad Abubakar.  Winners of other Nobel prizes handed out this week include
Peter Higgs and Francois Englert for physics; James Rothman,
Randy Schekman and Thomas C. Suedhof for physiology and
medicine; and Martin Karplus, Michael Levitt and Arieh Warshel
for chemistry. Canadian writer Alice Munro was awarded the
literature Nobel today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net ;
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  