-- Melco to Boost Budget for Manila Casino, to Add Gaming Ta
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-10-09T11:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/melco-to-boost-budget-for-manila-casino-to-add-gaming-ta.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  said
it will boost its budget for its Manila casino in the
 Philippines  by 10 percent to $680 million after the company
received government approval to add more gaming tables.  The country’s casino regulator gave the company, a venture
between Macau gambling tycoon Lawrence Ho and Australian
billionaire  James Packer , approval to increase gaming tables to
365 from 242, while  slot machines  and electronic table games to
1,680 each from original 1,450 combined, the company’s
Philippines unit said today in a filing to the country’s stock
exchange.  Melco Crown (Philippines) Resorts Corp., which is building
the casino called City of Dreams with local billionaire  Henry Sy ’s  Belle Corp. (BEL) , is raising the budget for the project as
construction and other costs rose, it said in the same filing
today.  Melco Crown is expanding overseas as Ho sees constraints on
development at home in Macau. The Hong Kong-based company is
building one of the four casino resorts in Manila, capital of
the southeast Asian nation, with its $1 billion resort that is
scheduled to open in the middle of next year. The Philippines is
among a list of Asian nations including Sri Lanka and  Vietnam 
seeking to emulate the success of Singapore and Macau.  Melco Crown’s casino will be the second to open in Pagcor
City, the gaming district being built along  Manila  Bay as part
of the Philippine government’s push to cut a bigger share of
Asia’s casino revenue. The $1.2 billion Solaire Manila, the
district’s first casino and owned by Philippine port magnate
Enrique Razon Jr., opened in March.  Macau Revenue  Pagcor City’s remaining two casino licenses are held by
Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada and a venture of  Genting Hong
Kong Ltd. (GENHK)  and Philippine billionaire Andrew Tan. Their resorts
are scheduled to open between 2015 and 2017.  Melco Crown currently gets all its revenue from Macau,
where the government has limited the number of gaming tables and
hands out land permits at intervals to prevent the industry
growing too fast.  Macau’s casino revenue reached $38 billion last year, six
times larger than that of the  Las Vegas Strip . Lawrence Ho, son
of Macau gambling tycoon  Stanley Ho , said last month Macau’s
casino revenue will grow at least 10 percent next year as the
global economy improves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  