-- Telecom Italia Said to Value Brazil Stake at $12 Billion
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-10-10T07:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/telecom-italia-is-said-to-seek-12-billion-for-brazil-stake.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , the phone
company that was stripped of its investment-grade rating, is
seeking at least 9 billion euros ($12 billion) for its
controlling stake in Brazilian mobile carrier  Tim Participacoes
SA (TIMP3) , according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  A disposal of Telecom Italia’s 67 percent holding at that
price would value Tim at about $18 billion, a 50 percent premium
to the Rio de Janeiro-based company’s market value based on Oct.
8 closing price. The stake could fetch as much as 10 billion
euros, said the person, asking not to be identified because the
deliberations are confidential.  Tim rose to a 1 1/2 year high in  Sao Paulo , and Telecom
Italia rose for a second day today in Milan. Moody’s Investors
Service cut Telecom Italia’s rating to junk this week, saying a
further downgrade is possible unless the Milan-based carrier
strengthens its balance sheet. The resignation earlier this
month of Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe, who opposed a
sale of Latin American assets to pare $39 billion in net debt,
removed an obstacle to a change of ownership in  Brazil ’s second-largest wireless carrier.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Telecom Italia’s
biggest shareholder, is in favor of a disposal, people familiar
with the matter have said.  ‘Strategic Asset’  “Tim is a strategic asset for the company because it’s the
only one that compensates for a declining domestic market,”
Carlos Winzer, an analyst at Moody’s, said in a phone interview.
“Whichever new strategy that Mr. Patuano and his team comes up
with won’t be easy to execute.”  Telecom Italia’s board is scheduled to gather Nov. 7, when
new CEO Marco Patuano is expected to propose a turnaround plan
that will probably address the future of the Latin American
business. Telecom Italia also sells phone services in  Argentina ,
while Italy accounted for 60 percent of the company’s 2012
revenue.  The company hasn’t given a mandate to banks as an internal
evaluation of Tim’s future is at an early stage, said three
people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named
discussing private deliberations.  There’s no “formal or informal process ongoing” for
disposing of its Tim stake, Telecom Italia said in a statement.  Tim rose as much as 10 percent yesterday and closed up 6.7
percent at 11.63 reais, the highest price since April 2012. The
stock has gained 42 percent this year, the  second-best performer 
in the benchmark Ibovespa index.  Enterprise Value  Telecom Italia jumped as much as 2.1 percent in Milan,
adding to yesterday’s 6.2 percent increase after  Bloomberg News 
reoprted the internal deliberations on Tim.  The Brazilian carrier, with more than 72 million customers
at the end of June, has a so-called enterprise value -- which
includes debt -- of 30.3 billion reais ($13.7 billion),
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  In a sale, Tim’s enterprise value could be in a range of 14
billion euros to 15 billion euros, the person with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  An alternative to a sale of Tim to one buyer is to break up
the unit and divide its customers among other carriers, although
that option would be more difficult to execute, said the person.  Brazilian law doesn’t allow one company to control more
than 50 percent of the market or more than one operating license
from the Anatel regulator, according to Communications Minister
 Paulo Bernardo . Telefonica and three other mobile-phone
companies -- Oi SA,  America Movil  SAB and  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  --
aren’t eligible to own Tim and their own Brazilian businesses at
the same time, he said last month.  Four Preferred?  Speaking to reporters in Brasilia yesterday, Bernardo said
more competition is preferable when asked whether the market
would be allowed to go from four telecommunications companies to
three.  Mergers and acquisitions in Brazil’s phone industry is
heating up. This month, Oi, the country’s biggest carrier,
agreed to merge with Portugal Telecom SGPS SA to create a trans-Atlantic company with 100 million customers and gain more clout
against Telefonica and America Movil.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  isn’t interested in bidding for Tim,
another person with knowledge of the matter said this month.  Telefonica,  Spain ’s biggest phone company, agreed last
month to gradually buy out financial investors in the vehicle
that owns 22.4 percent of Telecom Italia. In the event of a
breakup of Tim, Telefonica will need to convince Anatel that
having three wireless carriers rather than four benefits
consumers as reduced price competition would allow the companies
to invest in their infrastructure and service quality.  The U.S. government blocked  AT&T Inc. (T)  in 2011 from
acquiring  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA unit to preserve a
four-carrier market. European regulators are set to review
Telefonica’s takeover of  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s German business, a
bellwether case on the continent since it would reduce the
market to three operators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  