-- Emerging Stocks Decline as Mechel to Harmony Gold Tumble
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-10-09T21:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/emerging-stocks-fall-most-in-a-week-as-imf-cuts-growth-forecast.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated from
a two-week high as concern the U.S. budget deadlock will hurt
global economic growth drove a slump in commodity producers from
OAO Mechel to  Harmony Gold (HAR)  Mining Co.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.3 percent to
1,005.69. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  snapped a four-day advance as
Mechel and United Co. Rusal fell at least 1.6 percent, while
Harmony Gold plunged to a 12-year low in Johannesburg. India’s
S&P BSE Sensex rose to a three-week high as the nation’s trade
gap narrowed to the lowest in 30 months. The Romanian leu and
the Czech koruna led losses in developing-nation currencies.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  opened the door to talks with
Republicans on topics from health care to entitlement programs
if they end the impasse over the U.S. debt ceiling. Most Federal
Reserve policy makers said the central bank was likely to reduce
the pace of its bond purchases this year, even as they
unexpectedly refrained from such a move in September, minutes of
their last meeting show.  Janet Yellen , the Fed vice chairman and
an architect of its stimulus program, was nominated by Obama to
succeed  Ben S. Bernanke .  “People are concerned that the American government
standstill may lead to a slowdown in the fragile global economic
growth,” Ilya Kravets, the New York-based director of
investment research at Daniloff Capital LLC, said by phone
today. “There is a huge degree of uncertainty in the markets
because of the problems in Washington.”  Biggest Losses  Eight out of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
decreased today, led by consumer and commodity shares. The
benchmark measure for developing nations has dropped 4.7 percent
this year to trade at 10.5 times projected earnings, compared
with the  valuation  of 13.6 for the MSCI World Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund advanced 0.7 percent to $41.66. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
decreased 2.3 percent to 28.08.  Emerging-market economic growth remains “muted” with a
confidence gauge just above the threshold signaling expansion,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc. The HSBC Emerging Markets Index
rose to 50.8 in September from 50.7 in August, the bank said
today, citing a survey of  purchasing managers . That’s still the
third-lowest reading in more than four years. A value above 50
indicates expansion and below 50 signals contraction.  Brazil, Russia  Brazil ’s Ibovespa snapped a two-day rout as  Tim
Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  rallied after Telecom Italia SpA was said to be
negotiating the sale of its controlling stake in the phone
carrier, outweighing a drop in commodity exporters.  The Micex Index lost 0.3 percent in Moscow after rising to
the highest since Feb. 20 yesterday. Mechel, the nation’s
biggest producer of coal for steelmakers, slid 1.6 percent.
Rusal, a Moscow-based aluminum producer, slumped the most since
Sept. 19. Russia’s ruble rebounded, while the leu, the koruna
and the forint led losses among 17 out of the 24 developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index dropped for a fourth
day in the longest losing streak since June 24. Harmony Gold
sank 2.6 percent, while AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. slid 3.4 percent.  India’s S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  added 1.3 percent, erasing earlier
losses.  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , which gets more than
half of its sales from abroad, climbed to a record. Software
exporter  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  increased the most in a month.  HDFC Bank
Ltd. (HDFCB)  jumped to a three-week high.  China’s stocks  rose to a two-week high as speculation that
cities from Qingdao to Tianjin will win government approval for
free-trade zones fueled rallies for port operators and logistics
companies.  Tianjin Port Co. (600717) , Tianjin Marine Shipping Co. and
Tianjin Quanye Bazaar (Group) Co., a department store operator,
all jumped 10 percent.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  declined five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 325 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  