-- Mercedes Gains Ground Versus BMW as CLA Coupe Joins Fleet
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-10-09T10:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/mercedes-gains-ground-versus-bmw-as-cla-coupe-joins-fleet.html
Mercedes-Benz gained ground against
larger luxury-car competitors  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and
Audi AG last month as the introduction of the CLA coupe helped
demand almost double for the company’s compact models.  Sales by Mercedes, owned by Stuttgart, Germany-based
 Daimler AG (DAI) , rose 16 percent from a year earlier in September to
143,000 cars and sport-utility vehicles. That beat a 7.6 percent
jump at BMW and a 10 percent gain at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi.  BMW, Audi and Mercedes are all targeting record global
deliveries in 2013, seeking to attract buyers with new vehicles
such as the CLA, the BMW 4-Series coupe and the sedan version of
Audi’s A3 compact. Audi and Mercedes are competing to overtake
Munich-based BMW as the world’s biggest luxury-car seller by the
end of the decade.  “Mercedes is getting some tailwinds from its model
cycle,” said Frank Biller, a Stuttgart-based analyst at LBBW.
“The young products are pushing sales.” The Daimler unit
probably also improved profit margins in the third quarter,
reducing the gap with competitors earnings, he said.  Nine-month sales by Mercedes jumped 10 percent to 1.06
million cars and SUVs. The BMW brand’s deliveries in September
totaled 158,000, pushing the nine-month figure up 9 percent to
1.21 million. Ingolstadt, Germany-based Audi  reported  a 7.6
percent nine-month increase to 1.18 million. Mercedes’s sales in
the period amounted to 88 percent of BMW’s, narrowing the gap
from 87 percent a year earlier. Audi’s sales difference with BMW
widened to 98 percent from 99 percent.  Non-European Markets  The companies are focusing expansion in the growing auto
markets of  China , the U.S. and  South America  to make up for a
sixth straight drop in annual industrywide sales in  Europe .
Nine-month Chinese deliveries rose 21 percent at Audi and 20
percent at BMW, while increasing 7.9 percent at Mercedes, which
is revamping its sales network in the market.  Global growth at Mercedes was propelled by a 91 percent
sales surge of compact models in September as the company added
the four-door CLA to new versions of the A-Class car and the
van-line B-Class, Daimler said in a statement last week.
Mercedes is expanding in the segment with the small GLA SUV due
in the showrooms early next year. The carmaker also revamped the
up-market E-Class sedan in April.  Deliveries of BMW’s 3-Series car lineup increased 28
percent in the first nine months of the year, the company said
today. A Gran Turismo version of the 3-Series went on sale in
June. The company is also introducing diesel-powered models of
the car in the U.S., where it began selling an all-wheel-drive
version in 2012. Demand in China was boosted by a stretched 3-Series that entered showrooms in June 2012.  4-Series Introduction  BMW began selling the 4-Series, which shares underpinnings
with the 3-Series, in September. A new generation of the X5 SUV,
built at BMW’s plant Spartanburg,  South Carolina , is scheduled
to enter dealerships in November.  “We have been able to keep our European sales on a similar
level year-on-year, and once again reported major gains in the
U.S. and  Asia ,”  Ian Robertson , BMW’s head of sales and
marketing, said in today’s statement. “We are therefore well on
our way to another increase in deliveries for the full year 2013
and a new sales record.”  A3 Sedan  Audi plans on further gains after the A3 sedan reached the
European market in September. The VW unit will begin selling the
model in China in the second quarter of 2014. Audi predicts that
the car will be the most popular variant of the A3 line, which
also includes hatchback and convertible models.  Mercedes-Benz’s European deliveries rose 14 percent to
71,100 vehicles in September, with above-average gains in the
U.K.,  Turkey  and  Russia , Daimler said. Chinese sales rose 21
percent to 20,400 cars and SUVs.  “The two main drivers of why the German luxury carmakers
are so successful are internationalization and the broadening of
the model lines,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , a Hamburg-based analyst
with Warburg Research.  The luxury-car manufacturers are expanding production in
China, the world’s biggest automotive market, and taking steps
to begin vehicle assembly in  Brazil  to tap into the growing
number of affluent consumers in South America’s biggest economy.  Mercedes will begin assembling the mid-sized C-Class and
the GLA at a new plant in Iracemapolis, Brazil, in 2016. The
move will follow BMW’s production start next year in Brazil’s
southern state of Santa Catarina at a plant with capacity to
build least 30,000 vehicles annually.  “I expect BMW to remain the No. 1 luxury carmaker for
another couple of years,” said  Frank Schwope , a Hanover,
Germany-based analyst with NordLB. “They already have an
advantage and it’s very likely that they will retain the lead,
even if the gap to Audi and Mercedes might decrease.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  