-- Meridian Properties Cancels $230 Million IPO in Warsaw
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-10-09T11:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/meridian-properties-cancels-230-million-ipo-in-warsaw.html
Meridian Properties NV, an Amsterdam-based real estate investment trust, scrapped a 170 million-euro
($230 million) initial public offering in  Poland , citing
“adverse” market conditions.  The company ended bookbuilding for new shares yesterday,
seeking funds to buy property in  Romania ,  Hungary ,  Bulgaria , the
Czech Republic and Poland. Meridian, which was to become the
first REIT listed on central Europe’s largest equity market, had
earlier suspended the offering in June. REITs pay investors
rental income generated from their properties.  Meridian planned to purchase some properties from Bluehouse
Capital Advisors Ltd., which controls the REIT, according to a
prospectus on Meridian’s  website . The company sought to
“capitalize on its strategic relationship with Bluehouse to
maintain access to a strong pipeline of real estate
investments,” it said in the document.  “Investors disliked the fact Meridian would use the
proceeds from the IPO to buy properties from a private equity
company that controls Meridian,” Jaroslaw Lis, who helps manage
the equivalent of $1 billion at BPH TFI SA mutual fund in
Warsaw, said by e-mail today. “Some properties are in
southeastern Europe, which also may have discouraged buyers.”  Real Estate  Warsaw’s WIG30 Index declined for a third day yesterday as
the U.S. government shutdown continued and President  Barack
Obama  said the U.S. economy risks a “very deep recession” if
Congress doesn’t raise the debt ceiling. Swiss real estate
company Ledermann Immobilien AG yesterday postponed a 130
million Swiss francs ($143 million) IPO because of lower-than-anticipated interest for its shares.  Globe Trade Center SA, the Polish property developer that
invests in Romania, Bulgaria and  Croatia , posted losses in eight
of the last nine quarters as economic slowdown cut real-estate
prices.  Meridian’s IPO would have been among the biggest in Poland
this year. State railway Polskie Koleje Panstwowe SA yesterday
started a 1.6 billion-zloty offering of its cargo unit and
warehouse developer MLP Group SA plans to sell to the public as
much as 98 million zloty of shares this month. Peixin
International Group NV, a Chinese machinery producer, sold 16
million zloty of shares in a Warsaw IPO last month, cutting the
offer from 100 million zloty.  Citigroup Inc. was the Meridian IPO’s sole global
coordinator and bookrunner, while  Raiffeisen Bank International
AG (RBI) , Erste Group Bank AG and Alpha Bank were co-lead managers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  