-- EU Bank-Failure Plan Gets Boost From Key Lawmaker as Talks Loom
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-09T15:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/eu-bank-failure-plan-gets-boost-from-key-lawmaker-as-talks-loom.html
A European Union plan for handling
failing banks, dented by German-led doubts about its legality,
got a boost from the lawmaker who’ll be shepherding the
proposal through the European Parliament.  A report prepared by  Elisa Ferreira , a Portuguese member of
the parliament’s Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs,
backs the main tenets of the proposal put forward by Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, for a Single
Resolution Mechanism to handle stricken banks in the euro area.  “A successful implementation of the present proposal is
paramount to destroy the links between banks and sovereigns,
which proved to be fatal, particularly for the euro zone, during
the crisis,” Ferreira wrote in the report, which will be
discussed by the committee in Brussels next week.  Barnier’s plan is part of a bid to boost confidence in
Europe’s financial industry by building a banking union with
centralized oversight and crisis management. The bloc’s member
states and the European Parliament reached a deal earlier this
year on legislation to turn the European Central Bank into a
supervisor, the first stage of the project.  As the parliament’s so-called rapporteur, Ferreira is
responsible for suggesting ideas for amendments to Barnier’s
plan. Other committee members have until Oct. 18 to put forward
their own suggested changes, after which Ferreira will hold
talks with the assembly’s different political groups to seek a
compromise.  German-Led Attack  The governments of EU countries are racing to find a common
position by year-end in order to begin negotiations on a final
text with the European Parliament, whose approval is needed
before the bill can become law.  The resolution proposal, presented in July, met a German-led attack at a meeting last month of EU finance ministers and
central bank governors. The ministers will have another chance
discuss the plan next week in Luxembourg.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble has said
Barnier’s proposal must be overhauled because it is on shaky
legal ground and could endanger national control of budgets. The
legal service of the Council of the European Union, an EU
institution representing national governments, has also raised
concerns over national budget sovereignty and the powers of the
proposed resolution board.  Calling the commission’s plan “an indispensable building
block of the banking-union architecture,” Ferreira defended
Barnier’s push for a central resolution mechanism.  ‘Long Period’  It would be “totally unacceptable” for ECB oversight to
be “followed by a handout of the problematic institution to a
national resolution authority intervening on the basis of purely
national resolution funding,” she wrote.  Ferreira’s suggested changes include giving a planned
common bank-financed resolution fund access to a “public loan
facility” that it could tap to bolster its resources.  “The 10 years foreseen for the building up of the fund are
a long period,” Ferreira wrote in the report. “The existence
of a robust common backstop, in the shape, for instance, of a
public loan facility preferably through a European community
instrument, is then a precondition for operation of the fund.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  