-- EU May Allow Aid to Energy-Intensive Firms Defended by Merkel
-- B y   G a s p a r d   S e b a g   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-10-09T16:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/eu-may-allow-aid-to-energy-intensive-firms-defended-by-merkel.html
The European Union is considering
allowing governments to help industries with high energy bills
after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  vowed to defend the
country’s aid program for big power users.  The EU’s regulatory arm may approve partial support to some
businesses,  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition chief, said
today concerning new state-aid guidelines to be adopted in the
first half of 2014. The European Commission, which held initial
discussions on the matter yesterday, will seek views on draft
plans before the end of this year.  “We need to give this kind of advantage on a temporary
basis, not forever,” Almunia told reporters in Brussels today.
The question is “how long or how small” the list of industries
eligible for energy subsidies will be, he said.  The aid talks come as the U.S. shale-gas revolution widens
the EU’s cost gap with its largest trading partner and the bloc
prepares to review a list of companies, including energy-intensive businesses, which are eligible for a bigger share of
free permits in the emissions trading system, or ETS. Merkel
said this year that power-fee waivers granted to energy-intensive companies, ranging from  Bayer AG (BAYN)  to  HeidelbergCement
AG (HEI) , are vital for the German economy’s global competitiveness.  State aid granted to companies on a selective basis, which
can span from tax relief to government guarantees, is illegal
under EU law unless justified by reasons of general economic
development. The commission, which enforces these rules, plans
to have specific rules for energy-intensive industries.  German Waivers  Germany  granted power-fee waivers to 1,716 companies or
units and worth about 4 billion euros, according to data from
the country’s authorities.  Merkel said in July that Germany would “fight resolutely”
in Brussels for the waivers, which free companies from paying
the full fee to support the country’s clean-energy expansion.  She has said competitive energy prices are key to the
country’s industry as it shutters nuclear reactors and seeks to
increase the share of renewables to 80 percent of the power mix.  The commission will use “similar criteria to the ones used
in the ETS guidelines” to decide which energy-intensive sectors
are eligible for partial compensation, Almunia said.  Under the carbon-linked recommendation adopted last year,
aid for companies must not exceed 85 percent of eligible costs
from 2013 through 2015, falling gradually to 75 percent in
2019-2020.  Industries that were classified as being at a genuine risk
of relocating production to regions without emission curbs and
can be offered compensation include producers of aluminum,
copper, fertilizers, steel, paper, cotton, chemicals and some
plastics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  