-- European Coal Falls to Record as Imports From Colombia to Resume
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2013-10-09T13:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/european-coal-falls-to-record-as-imports-from-colombia-to-resume.html
European coal dropped to a record
amid expectations that imports of the fuel from  Colombia  will
increase after strikes that hampered supply ended.  Coal for 2014 delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Antwerp,
the European benchmark, fell as much as 0.4 percent to the
lowest since it started trading in 2010 and the cheapest for a
next-year contract since December 2009, according to broker data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Strikes for better pay and conditions that started in
February in Colombia, the third-largest foreign supplier of the
fuel to the European Union, helped alleviate the effects of a
global glut in production and lower demand from  power plants 
that cut prices in the region by 16 percent in the first half.
Supplies from Colombia to the EU should recover by the end of
the year after plunging 26 percent in the period through June,
according to Diana Bacila, a coal analyst at Oslo-based  Nena AS .  “I don’t see a risk of strikes for the rest of the year,”
Bacila said today by telephone.  The 2014 coal price fell as low as $81.80 a metric ton
before trading at $82 at 2:12 p.m. London time, the broker data
show. The contract has fallen 21 percent this year.  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Cerrejon venture, Colombia’s biggest
coal mine, said Oct. 7 output this year will be in line with
forecasts after a monthlong strike that started in February.
Workers at the country’s second-largest mine, owned by Drummond
Co., went on a 53-day strike in July.  The disruptions cut about 8.5 million tons of Colombia’s
production, compared with full-year exports expected at 75
million tons, Deutsche Bank analysts including  Michael Lewis 
said in a Sept. 25 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  