-- Dollar Rises Versus Yen Amid Bets on Debt-Limit Accord
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-10T21:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/euro-is-near-one-month-high-versus-pound-before-production-data.html
The dollar strengthened against the
yen for a third day, the longest run of gains in a month, as
speculation increased that U.S. lawmakers may reach a compromise
to avert an unprecedented default.  The Japanese currency fell against all of its major peers
as the White House endorsed a short debt-limit increase with no
policy conditions attached, signaling potential support for a
plan by House Republican leaders. Sweden’s krona and  Norway ’s
krone slid as data showed inflation pressures eased in the two
Nordic economics, cooling bets interest rates will have to rise.  “The optimism around a potential government deal is
helping to support the dollar versus the yen,” Eric Viloria,
senior currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New
York , said in a phone interview. “Markets are looking a bit
optimistic, and you can see that with this relief rally.”  The greenback climbed 0.8 percent to 98.16 yen at 5 p.m.
New York time in the third daily gain, the longest stretch since
Sept. 5. The U.S. currency touched 98.27 yen, the highest since
Oct. 1. The dollar was little changed at $1.3520 per euro. The
Japanese currency weakened 0.8 percent to 132.71 per euro.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 major peers, rose to 1,015.74, the highest level
since Sept. 27, before trading at 1,013.60.  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index fell to 8.64
percent, the least on a closing basis since May 8. The 2013
average is 9.37 percent.  Krona, Krone  The Swedish krona dropped versus most major currencies as a
report in Sweden showed headline inflation unexpectedly held at
0.1 percent, after a Bloomberg survey forecast faster price
growth. The krona lost 0.6 percent to 8.7933 per euro.  Norway’s krone fell against the krona and the euro as
underlying inflation in the country slowed more than analysts
estimated in September to 1.7 percent. The currency declined 0.7
percent to 8.1655 per euro and touched 8.2037, the weakest since
Nov. 29, 2010. It fell 0.2 percent versus  Sweden ’s currency.  Policy makers at both nations’ central banks last month
kept rates unchanged and signaled higher rates next year.  Brazil ’s real climbed versus all of its 16 most-traded
peers after the country’s central bank raised its main interest
rate yesterday for a fifth straight time, the longest stretch of
increases in the world. The rate is now 9.5 percent. The
currency gained 1.2 percent to 2.1804 per dollar and reached
2.1693, the strongest level since June.  Peso Rallies  Mexico ’s currency rose amid bets a deal would be reached to
raise the debt ceiling in the U.S., the nation’s biggest trade
partner. The peso gained 0.7 percent to 13.0939 per dollar.  House Speaker  John Boehner  proposed extending the federal
debt limit until Nov. 22 without policy conditions as a way to
shift debate back to a government-spending bill. The bill
wouldn’t end the partial shutdown of the government, which began
Oct. 1 after Republicans insisted on changes to the 2010 health-care law.  Boehner told reporters the House wants to “offer the
president today the ability to move.” Still to be determined is
whether rank-and-file House members will agree to the
leadership’s proposal.  House Republicans  met with Obama at the
White House to discuss the proposal.  U.S. borrowing authority lapses on Oct. 17.  Jay Carney , the
White House press secretary, said President  Barack Obama  would
support a short increase in the debt limit with no “partisan
strings attached,” though he prefers a longer extension.  Both Aware  “It looks like we are going to avoid the situation where
we’ll see an actual default, which is giving the dollar
relief,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Mizuho Bank in New York, said in a phone interview. “Both
parties are aware that it’s not in anybody’s best interest for
the U.S. to default on its debt.”  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew warned Congress today that
uncertainty over whether it will raise the debt ceiling is
“beginning to stress the financial markets” and trying to time
an increase to the last minute “could be very dangerous.” Lew
testified to the Senate Finance Committee.  The yen has lost 10 percent this year, the worst
performance among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollar climbed 3.1
percent, while the euro gained 5.9 percent.  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said the bank will
do what is necessary to defeat deflation, while declining to
discuss specific additional measures it might take. The policies
aren’t aimed at weakening the yen and are intended solely at
bolstering the domestic economy, he said at the Council on
Foreign Relations in New York  Japanese investors sold a net 2.2 trillion yen of overseas
bonds in the week ended Oct. 4, the most on  record , figures from
the Ministry of Finance showed today in  Tokyo .  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $48 billion, from $31 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $10.5 billion, the largest share
of trades at 22 percent. Options on the dollar-Chinese-yuan rate
totaled $9.2 billion, or 19 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 87 percent more than the
average for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yuan options
trading was 357 percent above average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  