-- European Stocks Decline Amid U.S. Budget, Debt Gridlock
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-10-09T15:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/europe-stock-index-futures-little-changed-on-u-s-impasse.html
European stocks  declined to a one-month low amid concern that the impasse over the U.S. budget and
debt limit may lead to a default.  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  slid 6.9 percent after French Prime
Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said the network-equipment maker’s
restructuring plans won’t be approved without an agreement
limiting job cuts. Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA fell 3.7 percent as
Morgan Stanley cut its rating on Europe’s biggest supplier of
building materials.  Taylor Wimpey Plc  rose 5.2 percent as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. added it to a conviction buy list.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.6 percent to 305.13 at
the close of trading, for a third day of losses. The benchmark
has fallen 1.5 percent this week after U.S. House Speaker John Boehner said he will attach conditions before backing a bill to
raise the federal borrowing limit and as the first shutdown of
the federal government in 17 years continues.  “Investors’ patience with U.S. politicians changed,”
Henrik Drusebjerg, who helps oversee $220 billion as a senior
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen, said by telephone.
“Faith has been diminished. Whatever comments we get from the
negotiations, they don’t seem to be any closer to a political
solution.”  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday that the U.S. economy
risks a “very deep recession” if Congress doesn’t raise the
debt ceiling. He spoke after calling Boehner to “reiterate that
he won’t negotiate on a government-funding bill or debt-limit
increase,” said  Brendan Buck , a Boehner spokesman.  Tentative Steps  Still, lawmakers began taking the first tentative steps
toward a path to raising the limit even as the rhetoric grew
more divisive. Senate Democrats plan a test vote before the end
of this week on a measure that would grant Obama authority to
raise the ceiling, probably for a year, unless two-thirds of
both chambers of Congress oppose.  The Treasury has said that it will exhaust measures to
avoid exceeding the  borrowing limit  on Oct. 17. If that happens,
the government will run out of cash to pay all of its bills at
some point between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the
Congressional Budget Office.  “The shutdown overshadows all other topics,” Soeren Steinert, who helps manage about $24 billion as associate
director for equities trading at Quoniam Asset Management GmbH
in  Frankfurt , wrote in an e-mail. “Fear is increasing every day
a little more because of a possible U.S. default and that hits
sentiment. Markets are listening to every small comment from
Democrats and Republicans and uncertainty is very high.”  Yellen Nominated  Obama will nominate Janet Yellen as chairman of the Federal
Reserve, which would put the world’s most powerful central bank
in the hands of a key architect of its unprecedented stimulus
program and the first female leader in its 100-year history.  Obama will announce the nomination at 3 p.m. today in
 Washington , a White House official said in an e-mailed
statement. Yellen, 67, would succeed Ben S. Bernanke, whose term
expires on Jan. 31.  Alcoa Inc., (AA)  the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported
better-than-expected quarterly earnings yesterday after its
smelting business returned to profitability and results improved
at a unit that makes auto and aerospace parts.  National benchmark indexes retreated in 13 of the 18
western European markets. The U.K’s FTSE 100 slipped 0.4
percent,  France ’s CAC 40 fell 0.2 percent and  Germany ’s DAX lost
0.5 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600-listed
companies was 19 percent higher than the 30-day average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Alcatel-Lucent Cuts  Alcatel-Lucent slid 6.9 percent to 2.58 euros, its biggest
drop since Jan. 8. Ayrault said he wanted negotiations to limit
job cuts. “If there is no accord, this restructuring won’t be
approved,” he said on Europe1 radio.  Alcatel said on Oct. 8 that it will eliminate 10,000 jobs
as Chief Executive Officer Michel Combes accelerates a 1
billion-euro ($1.4 billion) cost-cut plan to revive the
unprofitable company.  Saint-Gobain (SGO)  dropped 3.7 percent to 36.87 euros. Morgan
Stanley cut its rating on the stock to underweight, similar to a
sell recommendation, from equal weight, saying it doesn’t see a
recovery yet in the European building industry and the
contribution from  emerging markets  will slow.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  slid 4.7 percent to 1,020 pence, its
lowest price in three months. The India-focused metals and oil
producer said fiscal second-quarter copper output in Zambia
declined 26 percent and iron-ore mining in Karnataka state
remains halted.  Celesio Declines  Celesio AG lost 2.6 percent to 19.96 euros. Commerzbank AG
 downgraded  the drug wholesaler to hold from buy, citing the risk
that its majority shareholder, Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH, may not
allow McKesson Corp. to gain control of the business. Celesio
jumped 20 percent yesterday as Dow Jones reported that McKesson
has started talks with Franz Haniel about acquiring the company.  EDP-Energias de Portugal SA , the nation’s biggest utility,
slipped 2.1 percent to 2.47 euros after Goldman put the company
on its conviction-sell list.  Wimpey advanced 5.2 percent to 103.8 pence. Goldman added
the U.K.’s second-largest homebuilder by volume to its
conviction buy list, citing its exposure to the domestic
housing-market recovery.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  jumped 6.2 percent to 65.6 euro cents.
The phone company that was stripped of its investment-grade
rating is seeking at least 9 billion euros for its controlling
stake in Brazilian wireless carrier  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) ,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  