-- Ex-Madoff Workers Trial Will Be Jurors’ New Reality
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-09T19:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/ex-madoff-workers-trial-will-be-jurors-new-reality.html
The trial of five former employees of
jailed con man  Bernard Madoff , including his longtime personal
secretary and two computer programmers, will become a full-time
job for about five months for jurors.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in  Manhattan 
yesterday began asking a group of about 300 New Yorkers detailed
questions about their backgrounds and ability to be objective.
Twelve jurors, along with six alternates, will be chosen to
decide the fate of Madoff’s inner circle, charged with helping
carry out the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.  The length of the trial could pose a problem for the
defense in particular, since some jurors may be inclined to rush
the process so they can return to work, said Tamar Frankel, a
professor at the Boston University School of Law.  “Five months is difficult -- it’s a long time,” Frankel
said in a phone interview. “From time to time you always have
somebody who wants to get it over with, who says it’s an open
and shut case. There’s always someone who says,‘to hell with
it.’ But if they continue, they find out something different.
This is a complex case.”  The jury selection process could take all week, and opening
arguments may not start until Oct. 15, said Stephanie Cirkovich,
a public information officer for the court.  “Not everybody who has a job can afford this,” Frankel
said. “That also creates pressure on the people to get it over
with as quickly as possible.”  Five Defendants  The former employees, all of whom have pleaded not guilty,
are Annette Bongiorno, Madoff’s personal secretary who worked
with him for 40 years and helped recruit investors; Joann Crupi,
a back-office worker who managed large accounts; ex-operations
chief Daniel Bonventre and computer programmers Jerome O’Hara
and  George Perez .  Swain asked the group of potential jurors if they
personally knew or had connections to dozens of people involved
in the case, including former Madoff investor and hedge-fund
manager J.  Ezra Merkin  and celebrity victims such as talk-show
host  Larry King  and 96-year-old actress Zsa Zsa Gabor.  Swain also asked the people one at a time to describe their
families and backgrounds, and whether they had invested in or
worked in the securities industry.  “Don’t try to give politically correct answers or answers
you think are good for an ideal juror,” Swain told the group,
which included a grandmother, a high-school dropout and a trade
negotiator at Royal Bank of Canada at the World Financial Center
in Manhattan.  Fraud Counts  The defendants, who took turns yesterday standing and
facing the group of potential jurors, are charged with 33 counts
including  securities fraud , mail fraud, bank fraud, falsifying
records and submitting false information to regulators. Some of
the defendants also face tax-fraud claims.  The trial, slated to start Oct. 7, was delayed a day by
Swain without explanation, according to the case’s online court
docket. When the jurors are selected, prosecutors will begin
opening arguments.  Portions of the jury selection proceedings are being
conducted in the judge’s private robing room, with only
prosecutors and defense lawyers present to ask individual jurors
follow-up questions as they’re called in one at a time.  Potential Juror  At one such session today, defense lawyers sought to
dismiss a potential juror who said he knew someone who lost
money in Madoff’s fraud. The jury candidate -- an actuary at a
consulting firm -- also said a pension fund client lost a large
amount of money through a feeder fund that invested with Madoff.  Swain denied the request, saying the man was “intelligent
and candid” and indicated he could “judge fairly” based on
the facts, and not be influenced by his acquaintance with some
victims.  In a private session yesterday, one potential juror said he
works as a locker room attendant at Old Oaks Country Club in
Purchase,  New York , where he knew of about 30 people who lost
money in Madoff’s fraud. Madoff’s former accountant, Paul Konigsberg, belongs to the club and has golfed three times since
he was arrested, the prospective juror said.  Konigsberg, arrested Sept. 26, was charged in relation to
the fraud, and released on $2 million bail.  Separately, in a court filing yesterday, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Matthew Schwartz, who is leading the prosecution, asked
Swain to deny a request by Crupi to play a video for the jury
during the defense’s opening statement showing Madoff speaking
about his business at a roundtable forum in October 2007. The
U.S. said the video is hearsay and irrelevant.  Fullest Accounting  The trial will offer the fullest public accounting yet of
how Madoff carried out the fraud, which cost thousands of
investors $17 billion in lost principal and billions more in
imaginary profit. Earlier guilty pleas by Madoff, 75, and some
of his top aides averted a trial until now.  Madoff was arrested Dec. 11, 2008, after telling federal
agents that his company was a sham. Four months later, he
pleaded guilty to 11 charges including securities fraud and  wire
fraud  and was sentenced to 150 years in prison. While he
confessed to swindling his clients, he refused to admit to a
conspiracy charge that would have required him to implicate
others, people familiar with the case said at the time.  In August 2009, the U.S. won a guilty plea from  Frank DiPascali , Madoff’s finance chief, who agreed to cooperate with
prosecutors and explain how he and others helped Madoff defraud
investors. David Friehling, an accountant for Madoff, also
pleaded guilty to helping him prepare phony tax returns and is
cooperating with prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  