-- Fallen Chinese Politburo Member Bo Appeals Graft Conviction
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/fallen-china-politburo-member-bo-xilai-appeals-graft-conviction.html
Ousted Chinese Politburo member  Bo Xilai  appealed his conviction for bribery, abuse of power and
embezzlement, maintaining his innocence after a trial that
resulted in a life prison sentence.  The Shandong Provincial Higher People’s Court agreed to
hear  the appeal , according to a statement posted on the court’s
website yesterday. Bo was convicted and sentenced Sept. 22, a
month after his five-day trial ended.  An appeal, while unlikely to overturn the conviction, may
result in a reduced sentence for Bo, the former Chongqing
municipality party secretary who was mentioned as a possible
candidate for the ruling Politburo Standing Committee before his
ouster last year. Throughout his trial, Bo jousted with the
judge hearing his case and insisted he never broke the law.  “He still wants to retain the chance of a political
comeback,”  Joseph Cheng , a professor of political science at
 City University  of Hong Kong, said. “It is likely there will be
a reconsideration but I don’t think the court will change the
verdict.”  Bo was found guilty Sept. 22 of taking 20.4 million  yuan 
($3.3 million) in bribes, embezzling 5 million yuan and abusing
power in the death of British businessman Neil Heywood.
Prosecutors alleged that Bo tried to cover up his wife Gu Kailai’s involvement in Heywood’s murder.  Party Conclave  The Communist Party may want to wrap up Bo’s appeal before
a party conclave in November where President Xi Jinping and
Premier  Li Keqiang  may push for new financial policies that may
reshape  China’s economy  for the next decade. The plenum is
expected to discuss deepening reforms and achieving stable
 economic development , the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Bo’s trial, which ended last month, broke with precedent as
the party let the court release edited transcripts of his
defense. Bo called the bribery charges something “even the
lousiest TV drama scriptwriter wouldn’t create,” according to
transcripts from the court in the city of Jinan, where the trial
took place.  The sentence fits into a broader campaign against
corruption that Xi has said poses a threat to Communist Party
rule. Since Bo’s trial in August, Xi’s anti-graft campaign has
focused on people tied to  Zhou Yongkang , until last year head of
 China ’s security services. Zhou praised Bo’s achievements as the
party boss of Chongqing municipality just days before Bo was
ousted from the job.  Strong Man  “If Mr. Xi does decide to go after Zhou Yongkang formally,
if would have indicated that he is extraordinarily determined,
that he is willing to stand up and become the strong man of the
era,” said Dali Yang, a professor of political science at the
University of  Chicago , said before the court announcement. “It
would also risk sending a lot of chills and potentially also
cause trouble that could be unanticipated.”  Prosecutors’ claims and Bo’s testimony during his trial
offered a rare glimpse into the inner conflicts of one of
China’s leading families. Bo’s father,  Bo Yibo , was one of the
revolutionaries who brought the Communists into power in 1949.  In a letter to his family, Bo wrote that his name will be
cleared one day, the  South China Morning Post  reported Sept. 19.
Like his father, who was jailed and then rehabilitated, Bo said
he would “wait quietly in prison,” the SCMP quoted the letter
as saying. “My father was jailed many times. I will follow in
his footsteps.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Hong Kong at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  