-- Federal Contractors’ Pain Won’t Vanish After Shutdown End
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-10-09T20:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/federal-contractors-pain-won-t-vanish-after-shutdown-end.html
The U.S. government shutdown may hurt
contractors long after Congress and President  Barack Obama  find
a way to open federal offices and resolve the debt ceiling
dispute.  Federal agencies award more than $500 billion a year, or a
rough average of $1.4 billion a day, to tens of thousands of
contractors. With each day of the partial shutdown, the pipeline
gets more clogged by late payments, halted work and canceled
solicitations for new contracts. That bottleneck may affect
contractors’ fourth-quarter results.  “Even if the government suddenly opens for business, we
can’t expect everything to get back to normal right away,” said
 Larry Allen , president of Allen Federal Business Partners, a
McLean, Virginia-based consulting company. “This is going to be
a wave that makes its way through the government’s operational
infrastructure probably at least until the end of the calendar
year.”  If the shutdown continues through the end of the week, it
will be difficult for big contractors to make up for lost
revenue before the end of the year, said  Michael Lewis , managing
director at McLean, Virginia-based Silverline Group LLC, a
strategic consulting firm for aerospace and defense.  “If the government defaults, all bets are off the table,”
Lewis said in a reference to Oct. 17, the day on which the U.S.
Treasury Department says the nation will need to borrow more
money to pay its existing bills.  Fourth Quarter  The companies may slightly reduce their fourth-quarter
revenue estimates, he said.  The shutdown might also reduce some contractors’ earnings
in the last quarter of 2013,  Peter Arment , an analyst with
Birmingham, Alabama-based Sterne Agee Group Inc., said in a
report this week.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the government’s biggest contractor,
already has experienced some delayed payments because of the
government’s furloughs, said Gordon Johndroe, a spokesman for
the company.  About 800,000 federal workers, including Defense Department
inspectors and auditors who help certify invoices from vendors,
were furloughed when the shutdown began Oct. 1. The Pentagon
said Oct. 5 it was reinstating most of the department’s 350,000
civilian employees.  On Leave  Some of those previously furloughed workers “were needed
to move invoices along” and their absence slowed payment
processing, Bill Urban, a Navy commander and Defense Department
spokesman, said in a phone interview. Now that they’ve been
reinstated, payments should be back on track by Oct. 11, he
said.  The military accounts for more than two-thirds of federal
awards.  Lockheed, which put 2,400 workers on leave this week,
should begin to recover payments now that most civilian military
workers are back at work, Johndroe said in an e-mail. While the
Bethesda, Maryland-based company reduced its furloughs by 20
percent, many employees aren’t able to work because civilian
government sites are closed or the contractor has received a
stop-work order.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky Aircraft unit, which
makes Black Hawk helicopters, is expecting late payments from
the Pentagon,  Paul Jackson , a Sikorsky spokesman, said in an e-mail. The unit slowed its helicopter production last week after
defense inspectors, who are required to monitor production
lines, were placed on leave.  Small Business  United Technologies , based in Hartford,  Connecticut  and the
sixth-largest federal contractor, canceled plans to furlough as
many as 4,000 workers this week after the Pentagon’s decision to
recall civilian employees.  Small companies are generally more vulnerable because they
don’t have as much capital or credit to sustain themselves.  Companies send invoices to federal agencies at different
times, depending on the terms of the contract, said Allen, the
consultant. Payment is supposed to be within 30 days.  Most smaller companies submit invoices at the start of each
month, Allen said. That means those contractors won’t experience
the full impact of the shutdown until November, said Maria
Horton, a disabled veteran who owns EmeSec Inc., a 38-person
cybersecurity company based in Reston, Virginia.  ‘Fewer Hours’  EmeSec has been told to stop work on three contracts during
the budget impasse, she said. It is working on about a dozen
contracts during the shutdown.  “We will not see the true implications until the first
week of November,” Horton said in a phone interview. “If you
haven’t been able to work in early October, you’ll see fewer
hours and less revenue because you’ll have little in your
invoice for November.”  A unit of  Leidos Holdings Inc. (LDOS) , a Reston, Virginia-based
engineering services vendor that was spun off from  SAIC Inc. (SAIC) 
last month, put 800 workers on leave because the government
closed the Frederick National Laboratory for  Cancer Research  in
 Maryland  where they work, Stu Shea, its president and chief
operating officer, said in an interview.  Tougher times are ahead, Shea said.  “You’ll begin to see more significant and deliberate
actions by companies to deal with their growing overhead
problem,” he said. Those actions may include plant closings,
benefit cuts and the idling of more staff, he said.  ‘It’s Over’  Barbara McClain, owner of a construction company in
Andalusia,  Alabama , said she’s ready to dump the federal
government as a customer.  Her company, McClain Contracting Company Inc., does work
for the Defense Department and has struggled to win orders
during the past several years, she said.  Since the federal shutdown began on Oct. 1, she has cut two
positions in part because the government canceled five contracts
her company had sought, she said. That means her company wasted
money preparing proposals for business that ultimately wasn’t
awarded to any firm.  “In 2009, I thought I’d work for as long as I could get
out of bed,” she said in a phone interview. Now, “I think it’s
over.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  