-- Federal Grid Slides to 4-Year Low on Goldman Cut: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-10-09T15:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/federal-grid-slides-to-4-year-low-on-goldman-cut-moscow-mover.html
Federal Grid Co. dropped to the
lowest level in more than four years after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. cut  Russia ’s state-run power transmission company  to sell 
from neutral, saying a tariff-freeze plan will crimp earnings.  The stock sank 2.1 percent to 9.535 kopeks, the weakest
level since February 2009 by the close in Moscow. About 3
billion shares changed hands, 97 percent of the three-month
daily average.  Government plans to freeze tariff growth next year and
match increases to consumer prices from 2015 will lead to a
“significant earnings cut” for Moscow-based Federal Grid,
Goldman Sachs said in an e-mailed note dated yesterday. With
economic growth at the slowest since a 2009 recession, Russia is
seeking ways to tame inflation so the central bank can cut
 interest rates  and stimulate growth.  “It’s a bad time for the power sector, tariff growth is
being halted while investment programs remain hefty,” Mikhail Rasstrigin, an analyst at VTB Capital, said by phone from
Moscow. “Investors are pricing in the worst possible outcome
for these stocks and are selling shares.”  OAO Russian Grids, the nation’s largest electricity
distributor, sank 4 percent to 88.4 kopeks, the lowest level
since March 2009. The power companies were among the biggest
decliners on the benchmark  Micex (INDEXCF)  stock index, which sank 0.3
percent.  Goldman reduced its estimates for Federal Grid’s  earnings 
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization by 5
percent for 2014 and 14 percent for 2015. The reduced profit
outlook and “stretched” balance sheet won’t allow the company
to pay “attractive” dividends, analysts including Moscow-based
Artyom Golodnov said in the note.  Russian Grids’ investment program will be cut by a range of
200 billion rubles ($6.2 billion) to 300 billion rubles over the
next five years due to the tariff freeze, Energy Minister
Alexander Novak told reporters today.  “Companies are amending their investment programs but not
sufficiently to sustain their attractiveness for investors,”
Rasstrigin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  