-- Financial Times Moves to Single Print Issue in Digital Push
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-10-09T15:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/financial-times-moves-to-single-print-edition-in-digital-push.html
Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Financial Times will
consolidate its print edition into a single, global newspaper in
the first half of 2014, using its website for breaking news as
the publisher focuses on growth in digital products.  “The 1970s-style newspaper publishing process -- making
incremental changes to multiple editions through the night -- is
dead,” Lionel Barber, the Financial Times’s editor, said today
in a memo to staff posted on its website. “In future, our print
product will derive from the Web offering -- not vice versa.”  The new print edition will have minimal late evening
changes, meaning staff will go to work earlier in the day, and
its content will shift away from breaking news to focus on
analysis and “show pages” with data and graphics, according to
the memo. Online stories will be published to correspond with
peak viewing times, much like a broadcast schedule, and the
website will include FT and some third-party content.  The move is part of a broader shift from print to digital
across London-based Pearson to match customers’ reading habits.
Chief Executive Officer John Fallon unveiled a companywide
reorganization in May that increased spending to accelerate the
push into digital services. The FT was first published in 1888.
Its digital subscriptions now exceed those of its print edition
by more than 100,000, according to the memo.  “The competitive pressures on our business to adapt to an
environment where we are increasingly being read on the desktop,
smartphone and tablet -– remain as strong as ever,” Barber
said. “The pace of change, driven by technology, is
relentless.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Financial Times in providing financial news and information.  Pearson  rose  0.9 percent to 1,254 pence at the close in
 London . The stock has gained 5.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  