-- Ford Casts Spotlight on MKZ to Lift Lincoln Luxury Brand
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/ford-casts-spotlight-on-mkz-to-lift-lincoln-luxury-brand.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , aiming to maintain
momentum with the first of its four new Lincoln models, is
introducing a fresh promotional campaign for the MKZ sedan in a
bid to lift its still-struggling luxury brand.  In a broadcast, print and digital advertising push that
begins today, Ford will emphasize individual nameplates such as
MKZ instead of the broader Lincoln brand, said Andrew Frick, a
Lincoln marketing manager. While sales of new MKZ models are
increasing, with higher prices and younger buyers, the Lincoln
line still lacks the appeal of  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW
and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz.  “Leading with just the Lincoln brand as a whole right now
wouldn’t get us as far as leading with the individual
nameplate,” Frick told reporters yesterday near Ford’s
headquarters in Dearborn,  Michigan . “We looked back at other
brands and how they started to transform their brands, and they
didn’t start with just their overall name, they started with a
series of nameplate introductions.”  Lincoln remains a vexing challenge to Chief Executive
Officer Alan Mulally, who engineered a turnaround of Ford’s
namesake brand that accounts for almost all of the second-largest U.S. automaker’s sales. The latest MKZ, introduced
earlier this year, is the first of four new Lincoln models to be
introduced in four years and is part of a more than $1 billion
investment by Ford to try to resurrect the line.  Household Income  The MKZ, a mid-size sedan, has become Lincoln’s most well-known nameplate, surpassing the Navigator sport-utility vehicle,
Frick said.  Deliveries of the car are up 1.3 percent this year through
September, while sales for the broader Lincoln line dropped 6.3
percent. The average buyer of the redesigned MKZ is 57, four
years younger than owners of the previous version. Their average
household income is also $22,000 higher at $122,000, according
to the company.  In the four television spots shared with reporters during a
briefing yesterday, couples sitting on couches ask questions
related to luxury car features. In two of the spots, the couples
pose questions in front of both the MKZ and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
Lexus ES sedan to highlight features like the panoramic
retractable roof and inflatable seat belts available on MKZ and
not on the ES.  The new ads contrast with a campaign that Ford began in
December, which included Lincoln’s first-ever Super Bowl
commercial and reintroduced the luxury line as the Lincoln Motor
Company. One of the commercials opened with the immolation of
the now-defunct Town Car, the airport taxi that long defined and
more recently dogged the brand.  Ford now is focusing on individual Lincoln cars and SUVs
because 60 percent of buyers who are familiar with nameplates
have a favorable opinion of the brand, said David Rivers, a
Lincoln marketing spokesman. Favorable opinion drops to 26
percent among those who don’t know the nameplates, he said.  “That is a very key piece of information for us,” he
said. “What it said is we need to be much more nameplate-focused than we might have been. It will set up a bit of this
new approach.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 