-- Ford Says Great Wall Is Chinese Automaker to Watch
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-10-09T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/ford-says-great-wall-is-chinese-automaker-to-watch.html
Great Wall Motor Co.,  China ’s top
seller of sport-utility vehicles, has the most traction among
the country’s carmakers with global ambitions, the head of  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s Asia region said.  “The one that’s probably one to watch is Great Wall,”
David Schoch, president of Ford Asia Pacific, told reporters
yesterday at the company’s headquarters in Dearborn,  Michigan .
“They seem to be coming up with good designs, quality. They’ve
started to export.”  Chairman Wei Jianjun, Asia’s wealthiest car executive, has
signaled Great Wall will eventually outsell Chrysler’s Jeep
globally and wants to double sales over three years to 1.3
million vehicles by 2015. Ford is on a growth path of its own in
China. The company expects to double its quarterly market share
in less than two years.  Ford’s target is to capture 5 percent of the Chinese market
during the fourth quarter, Schoch said. The No. 2 U.S. automaker
had just 2.5 percent share in the country in the first quarter
of 2012. Deliveries in China surged 51 percent through 2013’s
first nine months to 647,849, according to a company statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  set a plan with
Executive Chairman  Bill Ford  to build up the company’s Asia
presence before agreeing to leave Boeing Co. for Ford in 2006.
Ford vehicles assembled in Asia  now outnumber  those built in
Europe for the first time. By 2015, Ford will have the capacity
to produce more cars and trucks in Asia than it made last year
in North America.  Ford’s Question  “As I look at the business plan that we’re working on now,
and I take a look beyond that, it raises the question: ‘Do we
need more capacity?’” Schoch said of Ford’s plans beyond 2015.  Ford intends to build 8 million vehicles worldwide by
midway through this decade, up from about 6 million this year,
 John Fleming , Ford’s executive vice president of global
manufacturing, told reporters earlier this week. The company is
slated to open nine factories from this year through 2015,
including five in China and two in  India .  Ford was a latecomer in China, forming its first passenger-vehicle joint venture there six years behind  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and more than a decade after  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  Those companies
remain the established leaders among foreign automakers.  Ford has joint ventures in China with Changan Automobile
Co. for passenger cars and Jiangling Motors Corp. for commercial
vehicles. Ford has no plans to change its venture partners in
the country, Schoch said.  Capturing a bigger slice of Asian markets is crucial to
Ford because of its heavy investments in the region. Ford has
said that it’s spending $4.9 billion to expand its lineup and
double production capacity just in China.  Ford has forecast a profit from Asia-Pacific operations
this year after losing  $77 million  last year. By contrast, the
company earned a record $8.34 billion in  North America  in 2012.  Ford rose 0.7 percent to $16.62 at the close in New York
yesterday. The shares have gained 28 percent this year,
outpacing the 16 percent increase for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  