-- French Proposed Coal-Gas Fired Power Tariffs Too High, CRE Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-09T14:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/french-proposed-coal-gas-fired-power-tariffs-too-high-cre-says.html
A French plan to use coalbed methane
from defunct northern mines to produce power has been rejected
by the regulator because proposed subsidies are too high.  The plan promoted by  European Gas Ltd.  would rely on feed-in tariffs that are higher than market rates, similar to wind
and solar power subsidies.  The tariffs of 59 euros ($79.69) a megawatt-hour to 78.5
euros a megawatt-hour for the first decade would give a profit
margin of 10 percent, the  Commission de Regulation de l’Energie 
said. It recommended 7 percent as “sufficient.”  Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg, a long-time proponent
of domestic oil and gas production, has advocated pumping
methane from defunct coal mines as a way of limiting reliance on
imports. He threw his support behind the energy after French
President Francois Hollande pledged to keep a ban on hydraulic
fracturing, the technique used to produce shale oil and gas.  In a statement today, the regulator said it backs the
trapping of coalbed methane “to prevent its emission into the
atmosphere” and safeguard against spontaneous or accidental
explosions in the mines.  The CRE, which provides the government with non-binding
opinions about state-set prices for power and gas, recommended
feed-in tariffs of 54.2 euros a megawatt-hour to 70.8 euros a
megawatt-hour. These rates would apply to installations of 4.8
megawatts and 1.5 megawatts.  EGL Chief Executive Officer Frederic Briens told a
parliamentary hearing in Paris in April that reserves of coalbed
methane in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais and Lorraine regions may be
sufficient to meet French demand for a decade.  EGL’s plans for about 30 production sites and 2,500 direct
and indirect jobs have the backing of local government and
farmers, Briens said.  A “portion of the gas” would not meet quality standards
required for it to be sent directly into the country’s natural
gas networks, CRE said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  