-- GE to Double Software Hires on Rising Big-Data Sales
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-10-09T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/ge-to-double-software-hires-on-rising-big-data-sales.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is hiring twice
as many programmers and engineers as originally planned for its
software development hub near San Francisco after sales of new
data analysis services exceeded the company’s expectations.  Employment will reach 800 workers at the facility, where GE
is crafting computer programs that can distill data collected
from  jet engines , locomotives and  wind turbines , according to
Bill Ruh, the executive leading the initiative. Sales of the
first 10 applications designed at the center have reached $290
million this year, Ruh said.  “We’re way ahead of where we thought we’d be in terms of
offerings, and we’re very happy with the revenues as well,” Ruh
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We’ve learned we can
do this, and it’s turning out to be bigger than we thought.”  GE will unveil an additional 14 offerings, including five
that complement its rapidly growing oil and gas business, at an
 event  today in Chicago. The company has invested $1 billion to
create big-data services that it says will increase efficiency
for its industrial customers. About 600 people work at the
software center, in San Ramon, California, compared with initial
plans for 400 employees.  The push into software complements Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Immelt ’s focus on boosting profit at GE’s industrial
businesses, which he plans to increase from 55 percent of the
company’s $16.1 billion of operating  earnings  last year to 65
percent in 2015.  New Products  Among the products Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE will
introduce today are Field360, which is designed to help oil and
gas drillers monitor performance of electrical submersible
pumps, and ReliabilityMax, a program that keeps tabs on oil
field electrical turbines to help cut maintenance costs.  Big data refers to the vast quantity of information amassed
by businesses, governments and universities that requires
powerful computers for storage and analysis.  Other applications will help smooth airline operations,
improve electrical grid efficiency and boost railcar
utilization, GE said. It’s also announcing new partnerships with
 AT&T Inc. (T) , Cisco Systems Inc. and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  for cloud-computing, network and data services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  