-- German Industrial Production Rises in Sign of Recovery
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-10-09T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/german-industrial-production-rises-in-sign-of-recovery.html
German industrial production
rebounded in August, adding to signs that Europe’s largest
economy is benefiting from the euro area’s recovery.  Output (GRIPIMOM) , adjusted for seasonal swings, rose 1.4 percent from
July, when it dropped a revised 1.1 percent, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists forecast an increase
of 1 percent, according to the median of 43 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey . Production advanced 0.3 percent from a
year earlier when adjusted for working days.  Germany ’s economy is supported by an “extraordinarily
good” consumer climate, helped by a robust  labor market , the
Bundesbank said last month. The euro area, the country’s biggest
trading partner, is a potential source of increased demand after
the 17-nation bloc emerged from its longest-ever recession. At
the same time, the recovery is uneven, with data yesterday
showing German factory orders fell for a second month in August
after the biggest gain in 2 1/2 years in June.  “In the short term, the prospects for German industry
remain positive,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING
Groep NV in Brussels. “Industrial production should further
benefit from the recent inventory reduction and the increase in
new orders earlier this year. In the longer term, however, the
industry needs more fuel to return to full strength.”  Bundesbank Outlook  German manufacturing output gained 2.1 percent in August,
with production of investment goods surging 4.4 percent, today’s
report showed. Construction dropped 1.9 percent, after the prior
month’s 2.7 percent gain. Energy output slid 0.2 percent.  The Bundesbank said in its monthly bulletin on Sept. 23
that it sees signs the economy will improve for the rest of this
year. The Frankfurt-based central bank predicts growth of 0.3
percent in 2013 and 1.5 percent in 2014. Gross domestic product
expanded 0.7 percent in the three months through June after
stagnating in the first quarter.  “The upward trend in industrial output continued,” the
ministry said in a statement. “The phase of weakness during the
winter has been overcome. Manufacturing is on a moderate, and
construction on a somewhat stronger, path of growth.”  Business confidence as measured by the  Ifo (GRIFPBUS)  research
institute rose for a fifth month in September to the highest
level since April 2012, ZEW investor sentiment climbed to a
three-year high and GfK  consumer confidence  is at the strongest
since 2007. While the country’s jobless rate unexpectedly rose
to 6.9 percent last month, it remains near a two-decade low.  Auto Demand  Daimler AG (DAI)  said on Oct. 4 that it expects record Mercedes-Benz sales this year, while Porsche AG said yesterday that
profit growth is likely to resume in 2014.  “There is a higher chance of getting positive growth
surprises in Germany in the next few quarters than being
surprised on the downside,” said  Andreas Rees , chief German
economist at UniCredit MIB in Munich. “The synchronous recovery
in major euro-zone countries may trigger multiplier effects with
positive impulses reinforcing each other.”  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said on Oct. 2
that economic data for the euro area confirm the picture of
“gradual improvement from low levels” after the economy
expanded 0.3 percent in the three months ended June, snapping
six quarters of contraction. A gauge of regional services output
expanded more than initially estimated in September and
manufacturing activity expanded for a third month, according to
surveys of purchasing managers.  IMF Downgrade  Draghi also warned that the U.S., the world’s biggest
economy, has the potential to derail the global recovery.
President  Barack Obama  and Republicans are at an impasse over
the U.S. debt ceiling, which Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
saying Congress needs to increase by Oct. 17 or risk defaulting
on payments.  The International Monetary Fund cut its global outlook
yesterday and warned that a U.S. government default could
“seriously damage” the world economy. Growth worldwide will be
2.9 percent this year and 3.6 percent next year, the IMF said in
a report released in  Washington . That compares with July
predictions of 3.1 percent for 2013 and 3.8 percent for 2014.  “The economic-recovery trend is going in the right
direction,” said  Mario Gruppe , an economist at NordLB in
Hanover, Germany. “At the same time, it could be flanked by the
one or other disturbance. Comparatively weak demand from Europe,
especially the euro area, signals that the downside risks for
the overall economic situation the ECB has stressed multiple
times aren’t all that unrealistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  