-- German Greens Poised to Rebuff Merkel’s Coalition Overtures
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-10-10T08:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/german-greens-poised-to-rebuff-merkel-s-coalition-overtures.html
Germany ’s Greens are approaching
today’s meeting with  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and her bloc
looking for an excuse to abandon talks before they’ve begun.  With the party leadership in transition, a gulf in policy
with Merkel’s side, a membership skeptical of a coalition and
open animosity with Merkel’s Bavarian allies, the  Greens  may
conclude there’s no chance of finding common ground. The Greens
team is due to meet with Merkel and 13 members of her Christian
Democratic-led bloc at 4:30 p.m. in Berlin today.  Exploratory coalition talks will be “very, very hard” and
he’s “skeptical” of success, Anton Hofreiter, the Greens’
joint parliamentary caucus leader, told reporters yesterday.
Baerbel Hoehn, a deputy caucus leader, said on Phoenix
television that agreeing to a coalition with Merkel would be a
“kamikaze” act for her party.  Wielding the option of Germany’s first federal tie-up with
the Greens gives Merkel leverage as she sounds out the  Social
Democrats  in separate coalition negotiations. For the Greens,
occupied with replacing their leadership after suffering losses
in the Sept. 22 election, the talks look more like a liability.  “Governing with Merkel would probably be a stretch too far
for the Greens at this point,” Carsten Nickel, an analyst with
Teneo Intelligence in  London , said in an e-mail. “After its
disappointing election result, the party’s real task is to
navigate towards the center ground. That will take effort and
time, which are limited resources for a party in government.”  Kretschmann’s Warning  Green lawmakers rejected a chance to reach out to Merkel’s
bloc on Oct. 8 when they opted against installing as a caucus
leader Kerstin Andreae. The party’s economic policy spokeswoman,
Andreae is from Baden-Wuerttemberg and allied to Winfried Kretschmann, the state’s Greens premier who warned his party in
April against adopting policies that could hurt business.  Lawmakers voted instead for Katrin Goering-Eckardt, one of
two lead candidates at the election who campaigned on tax
increases that Merkel has dismissed as economic “poison.”  The Green views on policies such as climate protection and
refugees “clearly differ” from those of the CDU/CSU, Goering-Eckardt said at the same press conference with Hofreiter. “If I
only get a little bit of what I want, then I definitely don’t
want to” enter a coalition with Merkel’s bloc, she said.  Energy Plan  Another core stumbling block is the energy switch, a 550
billion-euro ($740 billion) plan to shutter nuclear reactors and
raise the share of renewables to 80 percent of the power mix by
2050 from about 23 percent now. The Greens seek to exit coal-fired power generation and speed up the transition to renewable
sources such as solar and wind, while Merkel has said her focus
is to change clean-energy subsidies to cut the project’s costs.  Merkel’s bloc “still banks on coal and, when it comes to
renewables, has been stepping on the brakes instead of thinking
ahead,” Goering-Eckardt said. Hofreiter said the party needs to
see if Merkel is “serious about a new  energy policy .”  “The core topics for us are the energy switch, modernizing
social policy, but also refugee policy and data privacy
protection,” Priska Hinz, the Greens’ budget spokeswoman in
parliament, said in an e-mail today.  Merkel’s negotiating team has scheduled a second round of
exploratory talks with the Social Democrats for Oct. 14, as both
parties try to determine if there is sufficient common ground to
enter into discussions on forming a coalition with a joint
program for government. They ruled together in a “grand
coalition” during Merkel’s first term from 2005 to 2009.  Bundestag Meeting  Merkel told lawmakers from her  Christian Democratic Union 
at a closed meeting in Berlin Oct. 8 that she wants clarity on
her future coalition partner by Oct. 22, a party official who
was present said on condition of anonymity because the talks
were held in private. The newly elected Bundestag, or lower
house, meets for the first time on that date.  A coalition would almost certainly take longer to forge.
While SPD General Secretary Andrea Nahles has said that talks
might last until January, the party’s commitment to hold a
membership ballot on any coalition deal lends itself to a vote
around the time of its convention in Leipzig in mid-November.  “Despite claims to the contrary, the talks with the Greens
are mainly tactical” for Merkel, who’d prefer to govern with
the SPD, said Nickel of Teneo Intelligence.  Alexander Dobrindt, general secretary of the Bavarian
 Christian Social Union , Merkel’s sister party, has said he won’t
negotiate with current Greens leaders such as Juergen Trittin,
who stood down as caucus co-chief after the election while
remaining part of the team for today’s talks. The Greens are due
to elect a new leadership at a congress in Berlin on Oct. 18-20.  During their press conference yesterday, Hofreiter and
Goering-Eckardt repeatedly spoke about the possibility of being
in opposition, at one point saying the Greens were studying how
to function most effectively when faced with a grand coalition
that would enjoy a Bundestag majority of 504 seats to 127 seats
while also controlling the upper house, the Bundesrat.  In that event, said Hofreiter, “we’ll be able to attack
this coalition from all different sides.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  