-- German Stocks Little Changed Amid U.S. Budget Deadlock
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-10-09T08:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/german-stocks-little-changed-amid-u-s-budget-deadlock.html
  German stocks  were little changed
near a three-week low as investors looked for signs that the
U.S. will reopen its government and raise its borrowing limit.  Celesio AG (CLS1)  fell from its highest price in more than three
years as Commerzbank AG lowered its rating on the drug
wholesaler. EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE)  gained more than 1 percent as a
gauge of European utilities rose.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  declined less than 0.1 percent to 8,552.96 at
10:19 a.m. in  Frankfurt , paring a slide of as much as 0.3
percent. The equity benchmark dropped for the past two weeks as
a standoff between U.S. lawmakers led to the first shutdown of
the federal government in 17 years. The broader HDAX Index
retreated 0.1 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 28 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors turned their attention to corporate earnings as
the shutdown delayed the release of some economic data in the
U.S. Alcoa Inc. rose in German trading after yesterday posting
quarterly earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . also report this week.  The U.S. government began a partial shutdown on Oct. 1
after Congress failed to pass an emergency budget for the new
financial year. The deadlock has coincided with the need to
raise the federal government’s borrowing authority before Oct.
17, when the Treasury Department predicts it will hit the $16.7
trillion  debt ceiling .  Senate Democrats plan to hold a test vote before the end of
this week on increasing the debt limit for a year. The measure
will need support from at least six Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  