-- Giants Cause Headaches for NFL Oddsmakers, Fans After 0-5 Start
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-10T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/giants-at-0-5-cause-headaches-for-nfl-oddsmakers-along-with-fans.html
The New York Giants, off to an 0-5
start two years after winning the Super Bowl, have been as hard
to figure out for oddsmakers as they have for their frustrated
fans.  The Giants have failed to cover the point spread in any of
their five games and haven’t been within 13 points of the
betting line since a 36-31 season-opening loss to the Dallas
Cowboys. New York has lost its past four games by a combined 95
points and has allowed the most points this season of any of the
National Football League’s 32 teams.  The Giants are 7 1/2-point underdogs in tonight’s road game
against the Chicago Bears, the ninth time in the past decade
they’ve been more than a touchdown underdog in a regular-season
game. Oddsmaker Johnny Avello at the Wynn Las Vegas grew up a
Giants fan in Poughkeepsie, New York, in the 1950s and said he
now puts more focus on the team’s perceived effort -- or lack
thereof -- when setting a betting line.  “I get a better take on this team probably than most
bookmakers do in this area,” Avello said. “My take is they’ve
kind of quit. When they take the field, they’re not putting
forward enough effort. That’s unfortunate for guys like me
booking games because eventually the bettors will pick up on it
and they’re going to be a bet-against every game.”  Avello said the Giants probably would have been a 3 1/2-point favorite if tonight’s game were played earlier this
season.  “Power ratings are my starting point, but that doesn’t
count my intangibles,” Avello said. “One of the intangibles
here is non-effort.”  The Giants were booed at home in their Week 5 loss to the
Philadelphia Eagles and defensive end Justin Tuck said he
doesn’t blame the fans.  “They come here to see a good product, and right now we
are not a good product,” Tuck said.  Player Effort  He said it’s not for a lack of effort from players.  “There are only two ways to finish this season,” he told
reporters this week. “And that’s figuring out some kind of way
to right the ship and getting some positive momentum going here,
or you can sulk and feel sorry for yourself and have the worst
season ever in Giants’ history.”  In addition to giving up 182 points -- an average of 36.4
points a game -- the Giants have committed a league-high 20
turnovers, with quarterback Eli Manning throwing 12
interceptions. The New York Jets, with rookie quarterback Geno Smith, have the second-most with 12.  “The hard thing to gauge is the turnovers,” Jay Rood, the
sports book director at the MGM Mirage in Las Vegas, said by
phone. “You don’t want to take that into account too much, but
sometimes that’s the identity a team takes, especially if your
quarterback keeps throwing passes to opposing players.”  Recent Blowouts  Since losing to the Cowboys in their season-opener as
three-point underdogs, the Giants have twice been favored by
oddsmakers and twice been underdogs. They lost to the Denver
Broncos 41-23 as 5-point underdogs and then were routed 38-0 at
the Carolina Panthers while favored by a point.  New York, at +4 1/2 points in Week 4, lost 31-7 to the
Kansas City Chiefs, and last week was beaten by the Eagles 36-21
as a one-point favorite.  “They have offensive line and running back issues, but you
have a Manning at quarterback and quality players out there,”
Avello said. “They have better quality players than the Jets
and look at the Jets. They’re here with three wins.”  The Jacksonville Jaguars (0-5), Houston Texans (2-3) and
Pittsburgh Steelers (0-4) are the only other NFL teams winless
against the point spread this season.  Betting Lines  Las Vegas oddsmakers set betting lines with the goal of
getting an even amount of money on both teams. The Giants’
struggles have made that more challenging this season, as more
and more bettors have wagered against a team that’s 0-5 for the
first time since 1987. The Giants had a 78-77-5 record against
the spread over the previous 10 seasons.  “They’ve been a hard team to figure out,” the MGM’s Rood
said. “Their power rating was fairly high at the start of the
year and has steadily fallen. They have the talent, so it makes
it hard to put a finger on what you’ll get week to week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  