-- Gilead Stops Leukemia Drug Trial Early on Patient Benefit
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-10-09T21:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/gilead-stops-leukemia-drug-trial-early-on-patient-benefit.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , the world’s
 largest  biotechnology company by market value, said it is
stopping a late-stage study of the cancer drug idelalisib early
because of improvement seen in patients taking the drug.  Gilead is stopping the study in patients with chronic
lymphocytic leukemia after an interim analysis showed those
taking idelalisib plus another medicine, Rituxan, survived
longer without their cancer progressing than those taking
Rituxan alone, the  Foster City , California-based company said
today in a statement.  The trial, from the third and final stage generally
required for regulatory approval, was in patients who have tried
other medicines and who aren’t fit for chemotherapy. A cancer of
the bone marrow and white blood cells, CLL is the second-most
common type of leukemia in adults and usually affects people in
middle age or older, according to the  National Institutes of
Health .  “Given the significant unmet medical need in CLL,
particularly in this population of patients who are not fit for
chemotherapy, we are pleased that idelalisib has shown a
clinically meaningful benefit for patients,” Norbert W. Bischofberger, Gilead’s chief scientific officer, said in the
statement.  Gilead gained 3.4 percent to $60.90 at 4:41 p.m. New York
time in extended trading. Earlier, the company’s shares declined
less than 1 percent to close at $58.90. Gilead has increased 60
percent this year.  The company said it has applied for approval of idelalisib
in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and will talk with U.S. regulators
about a filing for the drug in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.  Those in the trial will continue receiving the cancer drug
and those who were receiving Roche Holding AG’s Rituxan alone
will be eligible to receive idelalisib in an extension study,
Gilead said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  