-- Gillibrand Defying Code Writers to Push Child-Care Break: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-10-09T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/gillibrand-defying-code-writers-to-push-child-care-break-taxes.html
While congressional tax-writing
committees are looking for ways to trim the code, Senator
Kirsten Gillibrand has one idea to add to it.  The  New York  Democrat proposed creating a new tax deduction
of as much as $14,000 a year for child-care expenses, which
families could take instead of the federal dependent and child-care tax credit -- a program Gillibrand also proposed to expand,
Bloomberg BNA reported. The senator will introduce legislation
soon, a step impeded by the government shutdown, aides said.  The proposal recognizes the rising cost of child care and
the increasing number of working mothers, Gillibrand said in a
statement. In addition, her proposal would more than double the
dependent and child care tax credit to a maximum of $3,000 and
make the credit fully refundable.  The credit allows taxpayers to claim as much as 35 percent
of the value of available benefits; Gillibrand would increase
the percentage to 50 percent. The maximum credit would climb to
$3,000 from $1,050 for a single child.  Gillibrand has proposed the tax credit increase before, and
some of the proposals resemble ideas from President  Barack Obama ’s budget proposal for fiscal 2014. In addition, the Senate
Finance Committee cited similar proposals as options for an
overhaul of the tax code in an April discussion paper.  “The face of the American workforce has changed
significantly with the dramatic increased participation of
women,” Gillibrand said. “The key to a growing economy -- the
key to a thriving American middle class in the 21st century --
is women. We have to equip more working women with the tools and
the opportunities needed to achieve their best in the economy,
and their best for their family.”  Promising Ideas  The deduction would be available to families that choose
not to take the expanded tax credit, Gillibrand said.  Family-related provisions of the tax code are part of a
broad review of tax deductions and credits in both the Finance
and House  Ways and Means  committees. In the April options paper
prepared by Democratic and Republican staffs, the Finance
Committee said research suggests primary caregivers have less
incentive to work because of the cost of child care. In
addition, joint filing and the graduated nature of the tax
structure hit a lower-earning spouse’s income with a higher
marginal tax rate because of the higher-earning spouse’s income,
a disincentive to work, the committee said.  With lawmakers in both the House and Senate looking for
ways to trim the tax code, ideas that are targeted toward lower-income households may hold the most promise -- and only some of
what Gillibrand proposes appears so targeted, said Elaine Maag,
a senior research associate at the  Urban Institute  who
specializes in how the tax code affects low-income families.  ‘Real Call’  “I think there’s a real call for simplifying the child tax
provisions,” Maag told Bloomberg BNA.  Making the tax credit fully refundable is the most
significant benefit for lower-earning households, Maag said,
because households with no tax liability would be able to take
the full credit for the first time.  Creating a new tax deduction would not tend to benefit
lower-income families, Maag said.  In its April options paper, the Finance Committee listed a
child-care deduction as one possibility for a tax overhaul,
along with increasing the tax credit and eliminating or
consolidating programs.  A deduction is available instead of a credit in  Montana ,
the home state of Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus,
a Democrat, as well as in Idaho, Massachusetts and Virginia.
Both are offered in  Maryland , the committee said.  In both chambers, leaders of the tax-writing committees
have said changes to the tax code should be wrapped into a
comprehensive package that could be considered in 2013 and 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Heller in Washington at  mheller@bna.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cheryl Saenz at  csaenz@bna.com . 