-- Global Insurers Must Implement New Capital Rules in 2019
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-10-09T13:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/global-insurers-must-implement-new-capital-rules-in-2019.html
Global insurers including  Allianz SE (ALV) 
and  Axa SA (CS)  will have to comply with new capital rules by 2019,
the industry’s watchdog said.  The International Association of Insurance Supervisors will
release its global insurance capital standards by 2016 and give
insurers and supervisors two years for “testing and
refinement,” the Basel-based organization of supervisors and
regulators said in an e-mailed statement today.  The IAIS helped the Switzerland-based Financial Stability
Board draw up a list of systemically important firms that was
published in July. The FSB, led by Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney , is coordinating global regulators’ response to prevent a
repeat of the turmoil that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and bailout of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)   “It is undeniable that the business of insurance is
global, and global issues demand global responses,” IAIS
chairman Peter Braumueller said in the statement. This is why
the association will develop and implement the “first-ever
risk-based global insurance capital standard.”  Late next year, the IAIS will implement capital rules for
the insurers that are deemed systemically important, currently
including  MetLife Inc. (MET) ,  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , Axa, AIG and
Allianz. These so called backstop capital rules will be the
foundation for the higher-loss absorbency requirements for these
companies, and will “inform the development” of the global
insurance capital standards, the IAIS said.  “It is clear that there will be significant challenges to
the creation of a global capital standard for insurers,
particularly within the time frame proposed,” John Fitzpatrick,
secretary general of insurance lobby group the Geneva
Association said in an e-mailed statement. “Development and
implementation of global capital standards within other
financial service sectors have taken many years to develop.”  The IAIS meets in Taipei next week for its annual
conference and general meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  