-- GM Plans Major Marketing Campaign for Updated Malibu
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-10-09T20:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/gm-plans-major-marketing-campaign-for-updated-malibu.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , less than two
years after bringing out a redesigned Chevrolet Malibu, said
it’s planning a marketing campaign comparable to a new vehicle
introduction for the updated 2014 version.  “We’re looking at this as an all new launch,” Chris
Perry, head of Chevy U.S. marketing, told reporters today in
Plymouth,  Michigan . The marketing campaign will include new
television ads and run at least six months, Perry said.  GM announced changes for the 2014 model in May, including a
sportier front end and roomier back seat intended to address
criticisms of the totally redesigned sedan introduced last year.
The 2014 Malibu is now arriving in showrooms.  The Malibu is rare misfire for GM as it brings out its best
vehicles in a generation, including the Chevrolet Impala, which
 Consumer Reports  gave the highest ranking among all sedans, the
first time in at least 20 years that a U.S. automaker has
outscored all Japanese and European competitors in that segment.  GM, based in Detroit, is bringing out 18 new or refreshed
vehicles this year, transforming the automaker’s lineup into one
of the newest in the industry from one of the oldest. The
redesigned 2014 Silverado, which began arriving in showrooms
earlier this year, also received the highest rating among all
pickups from Consumer Reports.  The Malibu received middling reviews among a competitive
segment dominated by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Camry,  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ’s Fusion and other mid-size offerings. The Malibu was
“good, but not great at any single thing,” Lawrence Ulrich
wrote in January in the  New York  Times.  U.S. sales of the Malibu fell 14 percent through September
to 154,950, while deliveries of the top-selling Camry rose 1.3
percent to 318,990.  GM fell 0.1 percent to $34.16 at the close in New York. The
shares have gained 18 percent this year, outpacing the 16
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Plymouth, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  