-- Gold Drops Most in a Week as Stronger Dollar Damps Metal Demand
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-10-09T17:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/gold-swings-near-week-high-as-investors-assess-stimulus-debt.html
Gold fell the most in a week,
dropping below $1,300 an ounce, after the dollar extended gains
and as imports slumped in  India , the world’s biggest consumer.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge against 10 major
trading partners, rose to a one-week high, curbing demand for
the precious metal as an alternative asset. Purchases of gold
and silver by India were worth $800 million in September
compared with $4.6 billion a year earlier, the Commerce Ministry
said today.  “The dollar is the winner today,” Phil Streible, a senior
commodity broker at R.J. O’Brien & Associates in  Chicago , said
in a telephone interview. “Prices are under pressure as
physical demand has taken a hit.”  Gold futures for December delivery fell 1.3 percent to
settle at $1,307.20 an ounce at 1:39 p.m. on the Comex in New
York the biggest drop since Oct. 1. Earlier, prices touched
$1,294.60, the lowest since Oct. 2.  The Federal Reserve is scheduled today to release minutes
of last month’s meeting, when policy makers unexpectedly
refrained from reducing monetary stimulus. Bullion slumped 22
percent this year on concern that the central bank will taper
its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases as the economy
improves.  Fed Minutes  Janet Yellen, the Fed vice chairman and an architect of its
stimulus program, will be nominated to succeed Ben S. Bernanke,
a White House official said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. government shutdown has halted the release of
economic reports, including payrolls data on Oct. 4, as
lawmakers remained deadlocked over a budget impasse and a plan
to raise the country’s debt limit.  Silver futures for December delivery fell 2.5 percent to
$21.891 an ounce.  On the New York Mercantile Exchange, platinum futures for
January delivery fell 1.5 percent to $1,383 an ounce, ending a
three-session advance. Palladium futures for December delivery
slipped 1.5 percent to $704.10 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  