-- Free-Trade Rally Spreads From Tianjin to Qingdao: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-09T07:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/tianjin-companies-rally-on-free-trade-optimism-shanghai-mover.html
The rally in companies linked to
free-trade zones in  China  spread to Tianjin and Qingdao as
investors speculated the government will let more cities follow
Shanghai’s plan for reduced regulation.  Tianjin Port Co. (600717) ,  Tianjin Marine Shipping Co. (900938)  and  Tianjin
Quanye Bazaar (Group) Co. (600821) , a department store operator, all
jumped 10 percent at the 3 p.m. close in Shanghai. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.6 percent.  Qingdao Kingking Applied
Chemistry Co. (002094) , a maker of wax products, also jumped by the daily
limit in Shenzhen.  Tianjin is awaiting approval from the central government to
set up a free-trade zone in the Dongjiang Bonded Port Area,
Radio Television Hong Kong reported Sept. 30. China’s markets
were shut for a week from Oct. 1 for holidays. Companies with
the word Shanghai in their name surged since Aug. 22, when the
Commerce Ministry said the government approved a free-trade area
in the coastal city.  “The market is speculating there will be a second or third
free-trade zone after Shanghai and port cities are the most
likely candidates,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Free-trade zones represent the
direction of China’s deepening reforms, which will reduce
the government’s intervention in economic activities.”  Companies based in Qingdao jumped after the Ministry of
Commerce said the eastern city is planning a free-trade zone
that will link China to  Japan  and  South Korea . Qingdao
Doublestar Co., a maker of athletic footwear, surged 6.1
percent.  Qingdao’s plans include an international trade center,
according to a statement on the website of the Ministry of
Commerce dated yesterday.  Ports Rally  Dalian Port (PDA) Co. and Wuhu Port Storage &
Transportation Co., based in Anhui province, both surged 9.9
percent, while Ningbo Port Co. gained 4.8 percent.  Shanghai International Port Group Co. has surged 133
percent since Aug. 22. The stock has fallen 14 percent over the
past five trading days since the zone opened.  “There are buy and hold opportunities in the sector but
there is going to be some volatility,’ Gerry Alfonso, a trader
at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. in Shanghai, wrote in an e-mail.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in  New York  at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  