-- Talisman Assets Hurt Icahn Turnaround Chances: Corporate
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/icahn-turnaround-chances-at-talisman-hurt-by-assets.html
Carl Icahn , the activist investor who
forced changes at Chesapeake Energy Corp. and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ,
faces an uphill battle boosting value at  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  as
the Canadian company tries to unload $3 billion of assets into a
crowded market.  Icahn, who declared a 6 percent stake in the Calgary-based
energy company on Oct. 7, said the shares were undervalued and
he intends to discuss “strategic alternatives” with the
company, according to a U.S. regulatory filing. Talisman
produces gas from five regions in  North America  and operates
internationally, with projects in the North Sea off the U.K. and
Norway as well as in Indonesia.  “Unless he has a buyer in his pocket, I don’t know to what
extent he can expedite the sale of the company or the
improvement of the company,”  Stephen Jarislowsky , chairman of
Montreal-based Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd., Talisman’s fifth-largest
 shareholder , said yesterday in a telephone interview. “The
assets are very dispersed and probably do not appeal to one
buyer.”  Talisman last year replaced former Chief Executive Officer
John Manzoni with Hal Kvisle, who has put a for-sale sign on $3
billion worth of properties and operations including the
Norwegian North Sea assets and leases in Alberta’s Duvernay
formation. The company has already shut down some international
exploration to save money and may exit its planned operations in
Kurdistan, Kvisle told investors on Sept. 12.  Shares Fall  Talisman  declined  2 percent yesterday in Toronto after
rising 4.8 percent on Oct. 7 before Icahn’s after-market
announcement. The stock has gained 15 percent this year, more
than the 9.5 percent increase of Calgary-based  Suncor Energy
Inc. (SU)  and beating competitor  Encana Corp. (ECA) ’s 9.9 percent  decline .  “We appreciate constructive input from shareholders and
take their views seriously,” Phoebe Buckland, a Talisman
spokeswoman, said yesterday by phone in response to a question
about how management views Icahn’s stake.  Icahn’s experience in Canada includes a failed attempt to
gain control over Lions Gate Entertainment Corp., an independent
film and television studio based in Vancouver and run from  Santa
Monica , California. The billionaire investor agreed to sell his
shares in 2011 at about the same price he bought them.  Hit and Miss  Icahn, 77, has had mixed results with his oil and gas
investments. Chesapeake Energy has climbed 73 percent since
reports surfaced in May 2012 that Icahn had become one of the
company’s largest shareholders. At Transocean, where Chairman
Michael Talbert departed and the company reinstated its
dividend,  the stock  has dropped 18 percent since the company
said in January that Icahn had acquired a stake.  The market doesn’t believe Icahn can step in and make quick
changes at Talisman, said  John Stephenson , who helps manage
C$2.7 billion ($2.6 billion) at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto.  “There’s been no interest in the Montney or the North Sea
or any of this other stuff before-hand so I’m a skeptic that
he’ll be able to surface value,” Stephenson said by phone.
“There’s clearly no market for what they’re trying to peddle,
unfortunately for them.”  Icahn didn’t respond to interview requests left with his
assistant yesterday.  Gas Focus  Talisman’s troubles began when, like Encana, it sold off
most of its oil assets, including a stake in Syncrude Canada for
C$475 million in 2007 to focus on natural gas production, said
 Robert Schulz , a professor at the University of Calgary’s
Haskayne School of Business. In 2009, the company sold assets in
Saskatchewan and Montana to TriStar Oil & Gas Ltd. and Crescent
Point Energy Trust for about C$720 million in cash.  “Icahn may have underestimated the difficulty of selling
Talisman’s assets,” Schulz said yesterday by phone. “It’s a
buyer’s market for their Canadian assets.”  Talisman raised C$1 billion in 2008 by selling reserves
that produced the equivalent of 12,000 barrels of oil a day. The
company is expected to report its first annual loss since 1998,
according to the average of 17 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Selling the oil assets looked like the right thing to do
at the time, but then the price of gas fell,” Schulz said.
“Talisman has tried without much luck to monetize their gas
assets and now the LNG space is too crowded.”  ‘Isn’t Focused’  Liquefied natural gas is a fluid form of the  fossil fuel 
that is super-cooled and can be transported by ship. The price
of gas has fallen by 45 percent in the past five years as the
hydraulic fracturing boom in the U.S. flooded the market with
cheap production. Gas settled at $3.716 per million British
thermal units yesterday on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Encana CEO  Doug Suttles  said last month his company will
“clean” up its portfolio because Encana “isn’t focused
enough.” Encana owns properties in similar formations to
Talisman in Canada and the U.S., creating competition for its
cross-town rival.  The cost for shareholders to own Talisman’s reserves of oil
and gas is more than an investment in Encana, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Talisman’s price to reserves, or the
current share price as a multiple of oil and gas reserves, was
15.16 in the most recent period, compared with 7.6 at Encana.  ‘Strategic Alternatives’  Icahn has control of 61.6 million shares of Talisman
through stock and options, according to the Oct. 7 filing.
Icahn, who paid about $277 million for the purchases, may have
conversations with management regarding “strategic
alternatives, board seats, etc.,” he said in a post on Twitter.  “I don’t think there’s some weird and wonderful structure
or alternative the company hasn’t been made aware of,” said
Jennifer Stevenson, vice president and portfolio manager at
Dynamic which oversees C$100 billion in assets and doesn’t own
Talisman shares. “The market’s speculated on asset sales,
spinoffs, penalties, joint ventures, all that’s been chit-chatted about.”  Kvisle said last month that about a dozen possible buyers
were looking at the company’s documents for its North Sea
assets. The company is considering a joint venture in Alberta’s
Duvernay formation and that it wasn’t “practical” to join any
of the proposed liquefied natural gas projects in British
Columbia, Kvisle said at the Sept. 12 presentation.  Shareholder Activism  Canadian companies faced 42 cases of shareholder activism
in 2012, almost double the number in 2011, according to
Kingsdale Shareholder Services Inc. In February, Kingsdale Chief
Executive Officer Wes Hall predicted there would be even more in
2013.  Activist hedge funds including  Barry Rosenstein ’s Jana
Partners LLC and  William Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP have pressed Canadian companies to change
management or spin off parts of their businesses.  In April, fertilizer producer Agrium Inc. rebuffed Jana’s
attempt to get the Calgary-based company to spin off its farm-supply retail stores. Last year, Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd.
cut jobs, shuttered rail yards and ran longer trains to try to
increase efficiency after Ackman succeeded in getting CEO  Fred
Green  replaced with  Hunter Harrison .  Icahn’s approach to transforming Talisman may match
activist shareholders’ “aggressive” patterns and hurt holders
of the Canadian company’s debt, said  Phil Adams , an analyst at
Gimme Credit LLC.  Talisman has C$4.34 billion worth of outstanding notes,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. It is  rated  BBB by
 Standard & Poor’s  and Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service.  “The concern, obviously, is that whatever approach Mr.
Icahn might pursue would be more aggressive than the path
Talisman is already on, which specifically seeks to preserve the
current mid-triple B ratings while pursuing strategies to
increase  shareholder value ,” Adams said yesterday in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  