-- ICBC’s Basel III Bond Falling Most Reflects Unease: China Credit
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-10-09T02:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/icbc-s-basel-iii-bond-falling-most-reflects-unease-china-credit.html
Asia ’s first Basel III dollar bonds,
sold by Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China  Asia Ltd., are the
region’s worst-performing new notes this month, showing investor
concern tighter regulations could cause losses.  The subordinated debt, priced on Oct. 2, fell 1.1 cents on
the dollar as of Oct. 7, more than any other Asian notes issued
in October, prices compiled by Bloomberg show. The drop
contrasts with a 0.1 percent gain for junior bonds in the
region, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The notes could be rendered worthless in the event that the
China Banking Regulatory Commission or Hong Kong Monetary
Authority deem the parent or borrower respectively at risk of
becoming unviable. Lack of a definition for that label is the
main challenge for investors in Basel III instruments, according
to a survey by  Fitch Ratings . China’s four biggest commercial
lenders announced plans earlier this year to sell as much as 230
billion  yuan  ($37.6 billion) of junior bonds, whose holders get
paid after senior noteholders in a bankruptcy.  “There are a lot of uncertainties with buying that deal
and I don’t think you get sufficiently compensated for it,”
said Tim Jagger, a Singapore-based  fund manager  at Aviva
Investors Asia Pte., a division of the U.K. insurer. “At that
sort of yield, I’d rather buy something I can touch and feel and
understand a bit better.”  Basel III  Global watchdogs led by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  are seeking to bolster banks’ balance sheets after
the financial crisis exposed inadequate buffers against losses.
The latest guidelines require a clause allowing regulators to
write-off capital, such as subordinated debt, if the issuer is
in danger of becoming “non-viable.” China, which became a
member of the Basel Committee in March 2009, is strongly
committed to implementing the Basel III rules, the group said in
a report on Sept. 27.  Under the terms of ICBC Asia’s so-called Tier 2 bonds, the
CBRC and HKMA can invoke such a non-viability event. That would
cancel the notes and the investors would lose their money, the
debt’s marketing materials show. ICBC Asia is a unit of
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398)  China’s State
Council,  finance ministry , central bank and State Administration
of Foreign Exchange can also trigger a non-viability event in
certain circumstances.  Asian and other global regulators haven’t defined such
events, Fitch wrote in its report dated Oct. 6. Some 65 percent
of investors highlighted uncertainty about this trigger, making
it the main concern for the new securities, Fitch said.  Loss Risk  Tier 2 instruments, which absorb losses after Tier 1 assets
such as common equity and retained earnings, must not be
guaranteed by the issuer and must be subordinate to depositors
and general creditors, according to Basel capital rules revised
June 2011.  A regulator deeming an issuer at risk of non-viability is
“not a zero-probability event,” according to Aviva Investors
Asia’s Jagger. “Your loss in the event of a default is
massive.”  ICBC Asia’s notes have fallen in secondary trading after
the lender paid 64 basis points less than it did almost three
years ago for subordinated debt also in dollars issued at 5.159
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The $500 million of
the new Basel III-compliant ten-year bonds, which were sold at
99.903 cents on the dollar, were quoted at 98.6 cents as of
10:42 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Bloomberg prices show.  No Precedent  “The most difficult part of this deal was price
discovery,” said Peter Leung, Hong Kong-based deputy chief
executive at ICBC Asia. “It’s like pricing a piece of art,
there’s nothing to really compare it to, so you just have to go
on what you feel it is worth.”  A Tier 2 Basel III-compliant note sold last month by
Standard Chartered Plc at 99.912 cents on the dollar had risen
to 100.628 as of yesterday.  “It would have been nice if some cushion, pricing-wise,
was factored into the bond,” Swee Ching Lim, a Singapore-based
credit analyst at Western Asset Management Co., said about ICBC
Asia’s issuance. “There seems to be a lot of uncertainty as to
where a Basel III-compliant Asian Tier 2 bond should trade,
given there are no public U.S. dollar-denominated precedents in
this region.”  While signs of an economic pickup have emerged, China’s
gross domestic product expanded 7.5 percent in the second
quarter, the longest streak of sub-8 percent growth in at least
two decades. Non-performing loans climbed for a seventh-straight
quarter in the three months through June, the longest streak in
at least nine years.  Private Banks  Years of rapid credit expansion will backfire on banks’
asset quality, profitability, and possibly liquidity, as the
economy slows, Louise Lundberg, credit analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s , wrote in a report on Oct. 2.  The country’s credit-default  swaps , which insure debt
against non-payment, have risen 20 basis points this year,
prices from data provider CMA show. Yields on 10-year  sovereign 
bonds fell 4 basis points to 4 percent last month, as the
premium companies must pay to sell similar-maturity securities
rose as high as  167 basis points , a one-month high. The yuan was
trading at 6.1203 per dollar as of 10:14 a.m. in  Shanghai .  More than half of the 72 investors surveyed from the Asia-Pacific region are concerned that risk is not being adequately
priced into Basel III bonds, Fitch wrote in its Oct. 6 report.  Private banks bought 45 percent of ICBC Asia’s securities,
a person familiar with the matter said, asking not to be
identified because the matter is private. The lender agreed to
“pay a commission to certain private banks” based on client
purchases, according to the bond’s marketing materials.  Metropolitan Bank & Trust (MBT)  Co., the  Philippines ’ third-largest lender, was last month considering a Basel III dollar
issue, a person familiar with the matter said at the time.
Further offerings of the securities will likely follow,
according to Herman van den Wall Bake, head of fixed income
capital markets for Asia at Deutsche Bank AG.  “As bank capital amortizes I’m expecting more financial
institutions to come to the market this year and next,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  