-- IFC to Offer $1 Billion Rupee Bonds to Fund Investments
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o ,   Y e   X i e   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-10T06:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/ifc-to-offer-1-billion-rupee-bonds-to-fund-investments.html
International Finance Corp., the
 World Bank ’s investment arm, plans to sell a record $1 billion
of rupee bonds offshore to fund its investments as  India 
struggles to lure capital amid the slowest growth in a decade.  The bond sale aims to “attract greater foreign investment
in a time of renewed economic uncertainty across the world,”
the Washington-based IFC said in a statement yesterday. The so-called synthetic debt is settled in foreign currencies and
allows investors to profit from rupee  interest rates . The notes
would share the World Bank’s top rating, according to Citigroup
Inc., compared with India’s lowest investment-grade status.  “The announcement of the bonds issuance does not have
direct implications towards altering the capital inflows
arithmetic,” Gaurav Garg, a strategist at Citigroup in
 Singapore , wrote in a research report today. “However, the step
in the right direction towards greater capital account
convertibility should support investor confidence further.”  India’s rupee has rebounded 11 percent from a record low on
Aug. 28, the best performance in Asia and almost halving the
year’s drop, as central bank Governor Raghuram Rajan offered
concessional swaps to boost the supply of dollars. Citigroup
predicts the rupee’s outperformance will continue, and has a
buy-call on the currency.  Cutting Holdings  Foreign investors  have cut holdings of rupee-denominated
debt to $25.9 billion as of Oct. 8, the lowest since December
2011, official data show, as the U.S. prepares to pare stimulus.
 India’s economy  expanded 5 percent in the fiscal year ended
March, the smallest gain in a decade and the nation’s current-account deficit makes it reliant on overseas funding.  India represents the biggest country exposure in IFC’s
investment portfolio, with a total amount of $4.5 billion as of
June, said IFC, which focuses on the private sector. The IFC has
sold bonds in 13 local currencies, including the Brazilian real,
the Chinese  yuan , and the Russian ruble. The lender sold 439
million reais ($199 million) of offshore bonds Oct. 7, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “This is a new initiative for the intermediation of
international savings for development in India,” Arvind
Mayaram, Secretary of Economic Affairs in India’s Ministry of
Finance, said in the IFC statement. “It will also help deepen
the  capital markets  in India and establish an Indian rupee
benchmark in the global markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  