-- Red Sox Oust Rays, Advance to Face Tigers or A’s in MLB Playoffs
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-10-09T04:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/tigers-force-decisive-game-5-at-athletics-in-al-playoff-series.html
The Boston  Red Sox  won 3-1 to
eliminate the Tampa Bay Rays from the Major League Baseball
playoffs.  The Red Sox won the American League division series three
games to one and will face the Detroit Tigers or Oakland
Athletics, who play tomorrow in a decisive Game 5 in Oakland.  Austin Jackson’s broken-bat single snapped a seventh-inning
tie in Detroit as the Tigers won 8-6 yesterday to even their
series against the A’s at two games apiece.  “This is a good series,” Tigers manager  Jim Leyland  said
in a news conference. “I mean, I’m sure the commissioner is
happy it’s going five, so we’ll see what happens. We’re going
back to Oakland and find out what happens.”  In the National League, the Cardinals and Pittsburgh
Pirates play a winner-takes-all Game 5 today in St. Louis. The
survivor moves on to face the  Los Angeles Dodgers , who already
have advanced to the league championship series by eliminating
the  Atlanta Braves .  The Red Sox got two runs in the seventh inning on a wild
pitch and a run-scoring infield single by  Shane Victorino .
 Dustin Pedroia  added a sacrifice fly in the ninth for the third
run.  The Rays, who used nine pitchers, scored the game’s first
run when Yunel Escobar led off the sixth inning with a double
and scored on a single by David DeJesus.  “It’s great, but we’ve still got one more (series) to be
where we want to be,” Victorino said in an on-field televised
interview.  At  Detroit , the A’s took a 3-0 lead thanks to Jed Lowrie
and Coco Crisp. Crisp led off the game with a triple and scored
on Lowrie’s single. In the fifth inning, Crisp singled and
Lowrie hit a two-run homer.  Peralta’s Homer  The Tigers tied it in their half of the fifth on a three-run homer by Jhonny Peralta, who missed the last 50 games of the
regular season while serving a drug suspension.  Detroit brought in its pitching ace, Max Scherzer, in
relief to start the seventh inning and he allowed a tie-breaking
single by Crisp.  The Tigers immediately tied it up again, on a controversial
home run by  Victor Martinez . The A’s claimed a fan interfered
with outfielder Josh Reddick as he attempted to make an over-the-wall leaping catch.  Jackson, who had struck out in his previous three at-bats
in the game, had his tie-breaking hit later in that seventh
inning.  The A’s loaded the bases with no outs in the eighth against
Scherzer, who went 21-3 during the regular season and now has
both of the Tigers’ wins in the playoff series, but could not
score.  In the bottom half of the eighth, the Tigers added three
runs on a wild pitch and a two-run double by Omar Infante.  Yoenis Cespedes had a two-run single for Oakland in the
ninth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net  