-- Military Death Benefits to Resume Under House-Passed Bill
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-10-09T19:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/military-death-benefits-to-resume-under-house-passed-bill.html
The U.S. House passed a measure
unanimously today that would restore death benefits for the
survivors of U.S. military personnel after payments were halted
by the partial federal shutdown.  The 425-0 vote sends the legislation to the Senate. As
lawmakers moved to resolve the issue, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said a foundation has agreed to make the payments until
the shutdown ends.  When most government funding ended Oct. 1 in a standoff
between President  Barack Obama  and House Republicans, the
Pentagon stopped paying the $100,000, tax-exempt “death
gratuity” that’s intended to provide immediate cash to the
survivors of U.S. military personnel.  “Our men and women serving in uniform in dangerous places
all over the globe deserve the peace of mind of knowing that,
during the worst of times, their families will receive the
benefits they deserve immediately,” Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen, a New Jersey Republican and author of the
legislation, said today on the House floor. “This bill removes
any ambiguity on this point.”  While the measure received bipartisan support, some
lawmakers blamed either the Democratic administration or the
House Republicans for the lapse in benefits.  Republicans said the Pentagon interpreted too narrowly a
previously passed bill authorizing continued pay for military
personnel by saying it doesn’t include death benefits. Democrats
said allowing the partial government shutdown led to the
disruption.  Authority Questioned  “Unfortunately, we don’t have the legal authority to make
those payments” until government funding resumes, Pentagon
Comptroller Robert Hale told reporters on Oct. 5. He said the
September legislation that provided for military personnel to
continue receiving their pay lacked provisions authorizing the
death benefit.  Minutes after the House vote, Hagel said that the  Fisher
House Foundation , a Rockville, Maryland-based nonprofit that
supports military families, has agreed to pay the benefits and
will be reimbursed by the Pentagon after the shutdown ends.  “I am offended, outraged and embarrassed that the
government shutdown had prevented the Department of Defense from
fulfilling this most sacred responsibility in a timely manner,”
Hagel said in a statement, saying the Pentagon had warned
Congress of the issue before the partial shutdown.  ‘Fixed Today’  White House spokesman Jay Carney today told reporters that
Obama was “disturbed” to learn that death benefits weren’t
being paid because of the shutdown.  “The president expects this to be fixed today,” Carney
said before Hagel’s announcement.  In addition to the $100,000 death payment, the military has
halted benefits for survivors, including burial expenses and
travel to Dover Air Force Base in  Delaware  to receive the
remains of loved ones, according to Navy Lieutenant Commander
Nate Christensen, a Pentagon spokesman.  So while Hagel flew to Dover today for the arrival of flag-draped coffins bearing four of the five U.S. service members
killed in Afghanistan over the weekend, families wishing to be
there had to pay their own way or seek help from outside groups.  ‘Heart-Breaking’ Lapse  The lapse in death benefits is “heart-breaking for all of
us,” said Ami Neiberger-Miller, a spokeswoman for the  Tragedy
Assistance Program for Survivors , a nonprofit group based in
Arlington,  Virginia , that provides counseling to grieving
families of fallen troops. The $100,000 death benefit typically
serves as “bridge money,” that “you’re able to use to bring
your family together,” she said in an interview.  The benefit also can be used to pay immediate expenses that
are otherwise difficult to cover after the loss of a fallen
soldier’s salary, Neiberger-Miller said.  “If your car payment is due in two weeks, this money is
really important,” she said.  Shannon Collins, whose son, Marine Lance Corporal Jeremiah
Collins, was killed in  Afghanistan  over the weekend, said that
“the government is hurting the wrong people.”  “Families shouldn’t have to worry about how they’re going
to bury their child,” she said in an interview with NBC News.
“I don’t necessarily have $10,000 to bury my son.”  ‘Ultimate Sacrifice’  Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, chairman of the
House Armed Services Committee, said yesterday that Congress
intended that the family allowances would continue uninterrupted
during the shutdown.  “Judging by the Department of Defense’s own summary of
those programs, we believed that ’death gratuities’ would
continue to go to the families of those heroes who made the
ultimate sacrifice,” the California Republican said in a
statement.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said he was shocked that
U.S. military personnel could die for their country while their
families were handed an IOU.  “It’s an unbearable loss, but now they’re being denied
death benefits because of this senseless shutdown,” Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, said yesterday on the Senate floor. “It’s
shameful and embarrassing.”  Christensen, the Pentagon spokesman, said the government
continues to process claims under the  Servicemembers Group Life
Insurance  program and to pay benefits such as a monthly stipend
based on a deceased service member’s base duty pay.  The legislation is H.J.Res. 91.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  