-- IMF Sees Business-Loan Losses of EU250 Billion in EU Banks
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-10-09T13:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/imf-sees-business-loan-losses-of-eu250-billion-in-some-eu-banks.html
Banks in Spain,  Italy  and  Portugal 
face about 250 billion euros ($338 billion) in potential losses
on their business loans over the next two years, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  About one-fifth of combined corporate loans is at risk of
default in the three economies, which are forecast to contract
this year, according to the fund’s Global Financial Stability
Report released today. The Spanish banking system is the only
one with enough reserves to cover the losses, it said.  The study is “an illustration of the potential magnitude
of corporate risks for banking systems,” the fund said in the
report. “Some banks in the stressed economies might need to
further increase provisioning to address the potential
deterioration of asset quality on their corporate loan books,
which could absorb a large portion of future bank profits.”  The Washington-based IMF used the findings to urge the
 European Central Bank , which is preparing an asset-quality
review of banks joining the euro-area supervision regime next
year, to pay attention to corporate exposure. While investors’
pressure on  Europe  has eased as policy makers took measures to
strengthen the monetary union, the fund said it’s “vital” to
clean banks’ balance sheets and end a cycle that has weak banks
and businesses making each other worse off.  Stress Tests  “The forthcoming bank balance-sheet assessment and stress
tests provide a golden opportunity to carry out a comprehensive
and transparent evaluation across euro-area banks that could
help restore investor confidence in the quality of their balance
sheets,” the IMF said.  The fund said its own exercise, which assumes that policy
makers stall on their commitments, stops short of a stress test.
Using data for about 2 million non-financial companies in the
three Mediterranean countries, it estimated that Spanish banks
face potential corporate-loan losses of 104 billion euros, an
amount that would be covered by existing provisions.  The estimate is 125 billion euros for Italy, with 53
billion euros exceeding provisions, and 20 billion euros for
Portugal, with 8 billion euros that are not covered. Still, the
financial system in those two countries would buffer the losses
with operating profits, without having to use existing capital
buffers, the fund estimated.  Capital Shortfalls  The ECB’s stress test must be tough and deep, Jose Vinals,
director of the International Monetary Fund’s monetary and
capital markets department, said during a press conference
today. Once capital shortfalls are identified, the private
sector should be the first line of defense, followed by national
backstops or the European Stability Mechanism if needed, he
said.  Vinals said the  Bank of Italy  is working on boosting
provisions at Italian banks to address the potential corporate-loan losses.  The IMF yesterday cut its global outlook for this year and
next as capital outflows further weaken  emerging markets  and
warned that a U.S. government default could “seriously damage”
the world economy.  Managing the exit of the U.S. monetary  stimulus  may be
challenging, with risks that long-term  interest rates  rise more
sharply than currently anticipated, it said today. The effect
would be magnified because many investors in recent years moved
into fixed-income assets, with longer durations, the fund said.  Fed Tapering  Bond prices slumped internationally and emerging-market
stocks plunged after May 22, when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said for the first time the Fed may trim its asset-purchase program within the next few meetings.  A 1 percentage point increase in interest rates from
current levels generates $2.3 trillion in global bond portfolio
losses, more than in previous episodes of monetary tightening,
according to the IMF.  Rising interest rates could also force real-estate
investment trusts that use borrowed money to invest in mortgage-basked securities to sell assets in a way that destabilizes
markets, according to the IMF’s report, which said a version of
that scenario occurred starting in May.  “A clear and well-timed communication strategy by central
bank officials is critical,” the fund said. “In the event of
adverse shocks, contingency backstops need to be in place that
reduce the likelihood of cascading forced asset sales.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  