-- Tin Smelters in Indonesia Put Staff on Furlough as Exports Slump
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-10-09T08:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/tin-smelters-in-indonesia-put-staff-on-furlough-as-exports-slump.html
Tin smelters in  Indonesia , the
largest exporter, started to furlough staff in the biggest
producing region as some companies have yet to meet a new rule
requiring metal be traded on a local exchange before shipment.  “It’s hard for us, some smelters have stopped operations
and put workers on furlough,” said Tjahyono Mukmin, president
director of Serumpun Tin, a group of 18 producers that wants to
sell their output through the Jakarta Futures Exchange, or JFX.
Mukmin, speaking in a telephone interview, didn’t give an
estimate of the number of workers affected.  Indonesia accounts for about 40 percent of global shipments
of the metal used in packaging, and Serumpun Tin’s comments show
the domestic consequences of the new policy, which has curbed
exports and pushed prices in  London  to a six-month high. While
the Indonesia Commodity and Derivatives Exchange in Jakarta has
started local tin trading before export, the JFX’s request for a
license was rejected the regulator. M. Bihar Sakti Wibowo, a
director at the JFX, said today that the exchange will reapply.  “If this continues, it will definitely have a big
impact,” Mukmin said, referring to Bangka Belitung, the biggest
tin-producing region. “People have no income because smelters
stopped operations, it could slow the economy.”  Tin for delivery in three months outperformed the five
other main base metals including copper on the LME this year as
the Indonesian curbs risked worsening a global deficit. The
metal rallied to $24,000 a metric ton on Oct. 4, the highest
since March 15, and traded at $23,585 at 3:07 p.m. in Jakarta.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmasna@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  