-- India’s Rupee Declines on U.S. Debt Concern; Bonds Advance
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-10-09T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/india-s-rupee-declines-on-u-s-debt-concern-bonds-advance.html
India ’s rupee fell the most in more
than two weeks amid concern a possible debt default by the U.S.
will hurt the global economy. Bonds advanced.  The currency weakened 0.7 percent to 62.23 per dollar as of
10 a.m. in Mumbai, the biggest drop since Sept. 20, according to
local prices compiled by Bloomberg. It declined 1.2 percent this
week in Asia’s worst performance.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecasts for
global growth yesterday, saying a U.S. government default could
“seriously damage” the world economy. President  Barack Obama 
said the world’s largest economy risks a “very deep recession”
should Congress not raise the $16.7 trillion debt limit before
an Oct. 17 deadline. The IMF’s estimate for India’s expansion in
the year ending March 2014 was reduced to 3.8 percent from a
July prediction of 5.6 percent.  “Headlines regarding U.S. fiscal negotiations will
continue to drive Asian currency performance, especially as we
inch closer to the U.S. debt limit deadline,” said Prateek
Gupta, a currency analyst in Singapore at Nomura Holdings Inc.
“The IMF downgrade does hurt to some extent, but the focus
remains on the U.S. situation.”  The rupee, which slumped 5.2 percent last quarter and
reached a record low of 68.845 per dollar on Aug. 28, has
rebounded since then as the  Reserve Bank  of India took steps to
boost dollar supply. The central bank raised  interest rates  on
Sept. 20 to tackle the highest consumer-price inflation among
the four largest  emerging markets . This week, it scaled back
some of the emergency tightening measures introduced in July to
stabilize the rupee.  Gaining Confidence  “Markets have stabilized somewhat and remained stable even
after the monetary-policy announcement, which gave us the
confidence to do a little more,” RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan
said yesterday in an interview with Mint newspaper aired on
Bloomberg TV India.  The yield on India’s 7.16 percent note maturing in May 2023
dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.46
percent, according to the central bank’s trading system. The
yield slid 19 basis points yesterday in the biggest drop since
Sept. 4.  Overseas funds pulled  $697 million  from Indian debt this
month through Oct. 7, reducing holdings to $26.2 billion,
official data showed. Foreign ownership of rupee-denominated
securities peaked at $38.5 billion on May 21.  The  overnight  interbank borrowing rate climbed 15 basis
points to 9.10 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. One-year  interest-rate swaps , derivative contracts used to guard
against fluctuations in funding costs, were little changed at
8.42 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  