-- Investors Gauge U.S. Output by Parker Hannifin: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-10-09T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/investors-gauge-u-s-output-by-parker-hannifin-ecopulse.html
Investors seeking confirmation of
recent improvement in manufacturing activity will look to  Parker
Hannifin Corp. (PH)  when it reports quarterly results next week.  Data from the maker of gears, pumps and valves are “one
piece of the pie” investors consider to determine whether
growth in capital-goods orders is sustainable, said  Robert Pavlik , chief market strategist in  New York  at Banyan Partners
LLC, which manages about $4.4 billion. That’s because the
Cleveland-based company supplies equipment used in machinery,
making it a “good, broader indicator” of industrial demand.  Orders for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft and
parts  rose  9.7 percent in August from a year earlier, the
biggest gain in 18 months, according to data from the Census
Bureau, which is scheduled to release September figures Oct. 25.
These orders have accelerated from a low of minus 0.8 percent in
February, signaling a rebound in U.S. factory activity this
year.  Pavlik is among a number of investors who are watching
quarterly reports from manufacturers to see if they reflect the
government-measured improvement. Jeff Hammond, an analyst with
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. in  Cleveland , said  Parker Hannifin 
could echo the trend because the pace of its industrial-order
growth is a “good proxy” for capital goods. The company is
“pretty broadly diverse” in the markets it serves and the
range of motion-control products it manufactures, he said.  Falling Orders  Parker Hannifin’s North American industrial orders fell 5
percent in the three months ended June 30 compared with a year
earlier, the fourth consecutive quarter of contraction, based on
company data.  Investors should pay particular attention to how Parker
Hannifin executives describe the operating environment when they
release fiscal first-quarter results, scheduled for Oct. 18,
Hammond said. This will provide clues about the durability of
the U.S. expansion, which appears to be “mending slowly,”
Pavlik said.  Gross domestic product accelerated to a 2.5 percent
annualized rate in the second quarter, after expanding 1.1
percent in the first quarter, according to the Commerce
Department. The world’s largest economy will grow 2 percent in
the third quarter, followed by 2.5 percent in the fourth,
according to the median forecasts of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg from Sept. 6 to Sept. 11.  Government Shutdown  Guidance from the company executives could be overshadowed
by the U.S. government shutdown, which began Oct. 1. The
political tensions that caused it may temper business
investment, which means five consecutive months of annual gains
in capital-goods orders might not be sustainable, said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . This measure of business activity contracted by as
much as 6 percent last year and shrank in two of the first three
months of 2013.  A one-week partial shutdown would trim 0.1 percentage point
from economic growth, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey published last week, with the
amount accelerating the longer the closing lasts.  Based on field checks Hammond conducts with business
executives, he said they don’t anticipate demand will get any
worse, as they’re “becoming numb” to the government problem of
the day. That’s why he encourages investors to pay attention to
the tone expressed by leaders of Parker Hannifin and other
industrial manufacturers in the earnings season to see how the
shutdown affects orders.  Improvement Starting?  Hammond said some executives have told him they’re hopeful
that “better macro-data points” -- such as the capital-goods
report -- will start to translate into an improvement.  Parker Hannifin has been experiencing a reduction in
inventory, which probably will end in the “near term,”
Chairman Donald Washkewicz said on an Aug. 6 conference call.
“I would say we’re just now getting to probably the bottom of
the destocking cycle.” The company declined to comment for this
story.  On a calendar-year basis, Parker Hannifin’s 2013 sales will
be essentially unchanged from last year -- $13.15 billion
compared with $13.09 billion -- according to the consensus of
analyst estimates collected by Bloomberg. That compares with
about 5 percent sales growth for companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Higher Expenses  It reported fiscal fourth-quarter earnings on Aug. 6 of
$1.78 a share,  missing  the consensus by about 9.4 percent
because of “reduced volumes and greater than anticipated
inventory, acquisition, integration and related expenses,” the
company said in a statement. Meanwhile, sales of about $3.43
billion also were below the consensus estimate of almost $3.48
billion.  The stock has outpaced the  S&P 500  by about 5.2 percentage
points since then, as investors still have been “willing to pay
more for it,” even after a weak quarter, said Jim Stellakis,
founder and director of research at Greenwich, Connecticut-based
research company Technical Alpha Inc. Last month Parker Hannifin
traded close to relative highs set in 2012, and it’s been
outperforming the market for the first time since 2011, he said.
“That’s a sign of a positive trend change.”  There could be more gains to come because the stock has a
“long-term track record” of rallying when demand is improving,
said Hammond, who maintains a buy recommendation on the company.
Even so, Parker Hannifin is facing easier comparisons ahead, so
it’s “wait and see” if an increase in its North American
industrial orders comes from accelerating output and sales,
Hammond said.  ‘Fiscal Shenanigans’  In addition, amid this year’s “fiscal shenanigans,” many
companies continue to behave cautiously, so Pierpont’s Stanley
isn’t “particularly optimistic that we’re on the cusp of a
major improvement in  capital spending .” While the recent
increase in capital-goods orders provides “a little hope for
the future,” there’s yet to be a similar bump in shipments,
Stanley said.  As a result, even though Pavlik at Banyan Partners
currently doesn’t hold Parker Hannifin, he still will pay close
attention to the company’s earnings next week to see if there’s
a shift under way.  “You have to look at order data in context with other
indicators to get a sense of what’s really happening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  