-- Liquidnet Says Trading Growth Fastest in Southeast Asia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-09T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/liquidnet-says-trading-growth-fastest-in-southeast-asia.html
Liquidnet Holdings Inc. said
 Southeast Asia  posted the fastest growth in turnover of any
region this year after the operator of off-exchange trading
platforms expanded into Thai and Philippine equities.  Average daily trading volume in Southeast  Asia  jumped 29
percent in the nine months to September from a year earlier,  Lee Porter , Asia-Pacific managing director for the operator of so-called dark pools, said in an interview in  Singapore  this week.
That compares to a 12 percent gain for the Asia-Pacific region,
which had $82 million a day in turnover in the period, he said.  The U.S.-based company, whose trading venues for
institutional investors don’t display quotes publicly to
minimize price fluctuations, started offering Thai stocks in
April this year and Philippine shares in September 2012. Within
Southeast Asia, it already provided trading in Singaporean,
Indonesian and Malaysian equities.  “We’re seeing a lot of migration of assets from the U.S.
into Asia,” said Seth Merrin, founder and chief executive
officer of Liquidnet. “We’ve got a lot of different economies
growing at different rates. It’s very important for
international fund managers to be able to take advantage of
these opportunities.”  The MSCI South East Asia Index dropped 6 percent last
quarter, its biggest decline in two years, trailing the  Standard
& Poor’s  500 Index’s 4.7 percent advance. Still, the long-term
story of the region remains positive, Porter said.  “Southeast Asia’s middle class is growing and there are
massive amounts of natural resources,” he said. “These things
are starting to play out now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  