-- Italy to Cut EU1.1 Billion of Spending to Meet Deficit Target
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-10-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/italy-said-to-discuss-ministry-budgets-to-meet-deficit-goal.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s cabinet approved 1.1 billion euros ($1.5 billion) of
spending cuts and plans to sell real estate to meet deficit
targets.  The divestitures and cuts will be spread across various
ministries and bring  Italy ’s deficit to within 3 percent of
gross domestic product this year, Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni told reporters yesterday. The government will raise
500 million euros selling property to Cassa Depositi e Prestiti
SpA or other state-owned companies, he said.  Letta, 47, has struggled to find the right mix of fiscal
measures to end Italy’s recession and ensure budget goals are
respected. In June, he delayed an increase in the value added
tax by three months, while in August he cut some property
levies. Unemployment nonetheless returned to a record high in
August and the tax breaks risked keeping the deficit above the
European Union limit of 3 percent of GDP.  “The government’s only attention-grabbing measures to date
were the abolition of the tax on first properties and a
postponement of the VAT hike,”  Joerg Kraemer , chief economist
at Commerzbank AG, said in an Oct. 4 report. “Both measures may
have supported the economy near-term but simultaneously worked
to worsen the outlook for public finances.”  The property sold by the government will eventually be put
on the market by the CDP, Saccomanni said.  Letta is taking greater control of  tax policy  as the
influence of former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  diminishes.
Berlusconi, the driving force behind the property-tax cut, fell
out with Letta and failed to topple the government on Oct. 2
after senior members of his party abandoned him.  Reducing Deficit  The measures are intended to square accounts this year,
while a broader revision to the  tax code  will be put before the
Cabinet within the next week as part of the 2014 budget law.
Letta, who has committed to reducing the deficit to 2.5 percent
of GDP next year, is counting on spending reductions to help
fund a planned cut to the  payroll tax  as of January.  Italy’s  unemployment rate  rose more than forecast in
August, matching an all-time high of 12.2 percent, as companies
remained concerned that the country’s longest recession since
World War II wouldn’t end soon. The economy, which has
contracted since the third quarter of 2011, showed signs of
continued weakness as industrial production unexpectedly fell in
July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  