-- Lithuania Considers Revising Shale-Gas Laws After Chevron Quits
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-10-09T07:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/lithuania-considers-revising-shale-gas-laws-after-chevron-quits.html
Lithuania  should revise laws on
shale-gas works that led  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to abandon its bid for
exploration rights, Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius said.  New environmental approval procedures and plans to raise
taxes on shale hydrocarbons were behind the U.S. energy
company’s decision yesterday to withdraw its lone bid in a
tender for exploration rights, Butkevicius said today.  “It’s worth a fresh look at those laws with an eye to
preparing and eventually announcing a new tender,” the prime
minister said on Laisvoji Banga radio in Vilnius, the Lithuanian
capital. “I can’t say how long that might take.”  The Baltic nation wants to develop shale resources as an
alternative to energy imports from  Russia . Some local
communities oppose the technology as environmentally unsafe. The
government is negotiating with and suing Russia’s  Gazprom (GAZP)  OAO,
the country’s only natural-gas supplier, seeking to reduce what
it calls “unfair” prices.  Chevron submitted the only bid in a January tender for
shale-hydrocarbon exploration and production rights in the
western Lithuanian region of Silute-Taurage. The U.S. company
last year bought half of Lithuanian oil and gas recovery company
LL Investicijos, which holds a license to explore for
hydrocarbons in Rietavas, contiguous to Silute-Taurage.  Lost Investments  “Because of the changing regulatory and legislative
landscape, Chevron believes that its business interests in
Lithuania are best served focusing on our existing investment in
the Rietavas block,” Chevron said in a statement yesterday.  Chevron was put off mainly by a legal demand that it get
local-government approval for an environmental impact assessment
before starting exploration, Butkevicius said. It was also
concerned by a proposal in Lithuania’s parliament to increase
the  tax rate  on income from shale-hydrocarbon production to as
much as 40 percent, he said.  The prime minister said he’d support a tax rate as low as
15 percent if that would help attract investments.  “Lithuania’s unfounded fears have cost it investments
worth many millions as well as new jobs and a chance to move
toward energy independence,” Environment Minister Valentinas
Mazuronis said on the ministry’s website today. “I hope that in
the future we’ll make better decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  