-- Mitsubishi Leads Start Up of Japan Energy Equity Fund
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-10-11T01:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/mitsubishi-leads-start-up-of-japan-s-first-energy-equity-fund.html
     (Corrects second paragraph to show Mitsubishi is a
shareholder in the fund operator not the fund in a story that
ran on Oct. 9)  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , Japan’s biggest
trading house and importer of liquefied natural gas, is leading
the start up of the first energy-focused private equity fund to
be backed by institutions from the country.  The Energy Opportunity Fund LP, which plans to raise $300
million by September 2014, will be run by Mitsubishi-controlled
Alternative Investment Capital Ltd., the fund-operator said in
an e-mailed statement sent today and dated Oct. 7. It will focus
on North American energy assets, the company said.  The development of new drilling techniques has helped U.S.
oil production in September rise to the highest level since May
1989. Growing gas output may help the country become the world’s
top energy provider this year, the Wall Street Journal said Oct.
4, citing its own analysis.  Mitsubishi and its biggest domestic competitor  Mitsui & Co. (8031) 
are boosting their LNG portfolio as Japan idles its nuclear
 power plants  in the wake of the Fukushima disaster. The two
Japanese traders last year signed an accord with  Sempra Energy (SRE) 
of the U.S. to develop a $6 billion gas-export facility in
Louisiana. Mitsubishi has committed almost the same amount for
 Encana Corp. (ECA) ’s Cutbank Ridge gas development on Canada’s west
coast.  Mitsubishi’s energy unit accounted for 40 percent of the
trading house’s 360 billion yen ($3.7 billion) in net income
last year from less than 20 percent two years ago.  Mitsubishi owns 51 percent of Alternative Investment
Capital. Daido Life Insurance Co. holds another 25 percent of
the fund-operator, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. 20 percent and
Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corp. 4 percent.  Japan Bank for International Cooperation  and the Shinkin
Central Bank are among the Energy Opportunity Fund’s first
investors, according to the operator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  