-- Mizuho’s Sato Under Pressure as FSA Scrutinizes Crime Loans
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-10-10T03:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/mizuho-ordered-to-explain-executives-knowledge-of-crime-loans.html
Pressure on  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411)  President  Yasuhiro Sato  mounted after  Japan ’s financial
regulator told the bank to explain how and when top executives
found out about its loans to crime groups.  The Financial Services Agency issued the order yesterday
after Mizuho said it erred in reporting only lower-ranking
officials knew of the loans, an FSA official told reporters in
Tokyo, asking not to be named in accordance with its policy.  The order, the first against the parent company about the
matter, comes less than two weeks after the FSA told Mizuho’s
banking unit to improve compliance for allowing members of crime
groups to borrow money through a consumer credit affiliate. Sato
said this week that he was unaware of the lending until the
regulator’s investigation in March.  “The situation is clearly getting more negative,” said
Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. “The worst-case scenario that President Sato
has to resign may come in sight.”  Satoru Nishibori, president of Mizuho’s banking unit at the
time, knew of the loans in 2010, Sato said on Oct. 8, amending
earlier statements by the bank that four senior compliance
officials were aware and didn’t inform superiors.  Sato, 61, said he himself was in a position where he could
have found out about the loans in executive meetings as early as
July 2011, when reports mentioning the transactions were
distributed.  ‘Completely Different’  “This is completely different from what they first
reported,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said at a
news briefing in  Tokyo  today. “They bear great responsibility
as an organization and I believe the people of Japan will feel
the same.”  Since becoming president of Japan’s third-biggest bank by
market value in June 2011, Sato has overseen the merger of the
its corporate and retail lending units to better integrate the
company under its “One Mizuho” brand. The lender was formed
from the combination of three banks more than a decade ago.  Masako Shiono, a spokeswoman for Mizuho in Tokyo, said the
holding company and banking unit both received the latest
orders. They must report back to the FSA by Oct. 28.  The FSA said earlier this week that it will take
appropriate action after the bank and an independent panel
complete investigations.  Shares of Mizuho were unchanged at 204 yen at the lunch
break in Tokyo. The stock has dropped 8.1 percent since Sept.
27, when the regulator revealed the loan issue. The  Topix Index (TPX) 
lost 3.4 percent in the same period.  Break Ties  Mizuho Bank Ltd. made 230 loans, mostly for automobiles,
valued at about 200 million yen ($2 million), through its  Orient
Corp. (8585)  consumer credit affiliate, the FSA said that day. The bank
failed to take enough steps to break off the transactions with
“antisocial forces,” the regulator said.  Standard & Poor’s  said Mizuho’s credit rating won’t be
affected by the correction of its report to the FSA or by the
business improvement order, citing the “small” amount of
transactions with crime group members. Still, revenue may be
hurt if the regulator takes further action or the bank’s “lost
business becomes substantial,” S&P said in a statement
yesterday before the additional order was issued.  Japan has stepped up efforts to combat yakuza gangs, whose
activities range from extortion to drug trafficking, according
to the  National Police Agency . Ordinances came into effect
nationwide in 2011 banning companies from doing business with
the yakuza that would result in profit for the organizations.
The rules give local authorities the power to fine or imprison
enterprises that refuse to stop relations with the gangs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  