-- Janet Yellen’s Communication Problem
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-09T23:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/janet-yellen-s-to-do-list.html
President  Barack Obama  has nominated
an exceptionally well-qualified economist as the next chairman
of the  Federal Reserve . By the way, once  confirmed  -- as few
doubt she will be --  Janet Yellen  will be the first  woman  to
lead the central bank in its 100-year history.  The new chairman will have her work cut out. Five years
after the financial crisis, the  U.S. economy  is frail, and its
largest banks are still oversized and undercapitalized. Congress
and the White House are so much at odds over fiscal policy that
most of the federal government is shuttered, leaving only the
Fed to provide the needed stimulus. It has already cut short-term interest rates to almost zero, and it has had to pursue
other, more novel approaches to stimulate growth and put people
back to work. It may have to do more, even as the dangers of
further quantitative easing mount.  Deciding when and by how much to taper the Fed’s $85
billion of monthly bond buying is the most pressing question
Yellen faces. This is both a substantive policy question and,
remembering the importance of shaping market expectations, a
communication problem. The Fed has to form the policy and tell
markets about it well in advance. As the past few months have
shown, it isn’t easy.  For one thing, the policy question is complicated. For
another, not all Fed governors think alike -- and every
statement each of them makes is meticulously examined for clues
about what’s coming. Minutes of the Sept. 18 meeting  show  that
several Fed governors considered improvements in the job market
strong enough to justify a reduction in asset purchases right
away. Luckily, with Yellen’s support, the outgoing chairman,  Ben S. Bernanke , kept the program as is, contrary to expectations.  That was wise. Nonetheless, several times this year, the
Fed created a muddle when it tried to lay out a tapering
 strategy  and markets saw a signal that interest rates would rise
sooner than expected. The central bank’s attempts to guide
expectations at times have driven up yields, pushed down stock
prices and tightened policy to an unintended degree. Yellen has
been the governor leading the Fed’s communications subcommittee,
and she deserves part of the blame.  As chairman, she can’t force Fed governors to agree, nor
should she discourage opposing points of view. But she can use
her chairman’s bully pulpit to press her views, especially when
the data are on her side, as they most certainly are now.  With the economy still weak, inflation low and fiscal
policy acting as a brake, continued monetary stimulus is needed.
Inflation is running at around 1.2 percent annually and has been
half a percentage point or more below the Fed’s 2 percent goal
for almost a year. The August unemployment rate of 7.3 percent
was well below the 5.2 percent to 5.8 percent level the Fed
favors. And that 7.3 percent is flattering: It hides the fact
that employment as a share of the population has hardly budged
since the recession hit bottom, raising concerns that the
eroding skills of the long-term unemployed will leave them
permanently jobless.  Yellen may be a little less concerned than Bernanke has
been about the risks of further unconventional stimulus. In
fact, Bernanke’s misgivings are well founded. A bloated, $3.75
trillion balance sheet could cause financial instability by
inflating asset bubbles or driving investors into high-yield
instruments of poor quality. The size of the Fed’s holdings
could also leave it exposed to losses when assets are sold.
These dangers are real, but as Bernanke and Yellen have both
reasoned, the risks of premature tapering -- a faltering economy
and permanently elevated unemployment -- outweigh them for the
moment.  Even if Yellen can mitigate the too-many-voices problem,
the challenge of forward guidance will remain. How should the
Fed frame its efforts to steer expectations? Yellen pushed the
Fed to add numbers to its guidance -- to say that the fed funds
rate wouldn’t increase while unemployment was higher than 6.5
percent and expected inflation less than 2.5 percent. But the
Fed then had to explain that the unemployment number is a
“threshold,” not a “trigger.” Depending on the
circumstances, the Fed might keep  interest rates  at zero, even
after unemployment has fallen to less than 6.5 percent.  This is complicated and confusing. It would be better to
make a simpler promise, such as pledging to keep interest rates
very low until the end of 2016, no matter what. Or to let
actions speak louder than words by maintaining its present
policy until further notice because of the still-weak economy.
The current strategy on guidance is an awkward hybrid of those
contrasting approaches, and it isn’t working.  The Yellen nomination is excellent news. It will be even
better news if she promptly acknowledges the defects of the
present approach to forward guidance and suggests a remedy.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 