-- Japanese Shares Advance as Yen Slides on Yellen Pick
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-10-09T07:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/japan-shares-fall-as-u-s-impasse-spurs-default-concern.html
Japan’s  Topix index  capped a second
day of gains as the yen slid after the White House said it will
nominate  Janet Yellen  to lead the  Federal Reserve .  Toyota Motor Corp., Asia’s biggest carmaker, rose 3 percent
after falling as much as 0.7 percent. Real-estate shares  led
gains  among the 33 Topix industry groups after Nomura Holdings
Inc. maintained its bullish outlook on the sector. SoftBank
Corp. tumbled 5.7 percent after the mobile carrier’s rating was
cut at Citigroup Inc.  The Topix rose 1.5 percent to 1,166.90 at the close in
 Tokyo , after falling as much as 1 percent. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average added 1 percent to 14,037.84. President  Barack Obama 
said the  U.S. economy  risks a deep recession if Congress doesn’t
raise the nation’s borrowing limit. Obama will nominate Yellen
to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as Fed chairman, a White House
official said. The yen weakened 0.5 percent to 97.36 per dollar
as investors shifted to higher-yielding assets.  “Investors are still worrying about the debt crisis,”
said  Andrew Sullivan , director of sales trading at Kim Eng
Securities in  Hong Kong . “Still, today the key is that there is
one less thing for investors to worry about. We now know who is
going to replace Bernanke. It’s more about investor sentiment
than what the policy is actually going to be. Japan is seeing
support because the dollar is gaining.”  Yellen Policy  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.4
percent. Yellen, the vice chairman of the Fed since 2010, has
articulated the case for maintaining highly accommodative
monetary policy.  Toyota gained 3 percent to 6,230 yen.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,
which gets about 80 percent of revenue abroad, gained 1.9
percent to 3,790 yen. Canon Inc., the world’s biggest
cameramaker, climbed 1 percent to 3,105 yen.  Still, Yellen’s nomination to lead the Fed raises the odds
of prolonged U.S. bond-buying that may strengthen the yen and
damage the Japanese economy, said Koichi Hamada, an adviser to
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. If the Fed takes longer to pare
stimulus, the yen may gain, hurting Japan’s recovery, Hamada
said.  Among other shares that rose, real estate companies jumped
as Nomura said any decline in demand for housing due to the
increased consumption levy will be short lived and that tax
breaks on home loans will underpin demand.  The Topix Real Estate Index jumped 3.7 percent, the most
among the 33 industry groups on the broader gauge. Mitsui
Fudosan Co. rose 4.3 percent to 3,300 yen while  Tokyo Tatemono
Co. (8804)  advanced 4.1 percent to 899 yen.  Debt Impasse  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  dropped 1.2 percent yesterday, the biggest
decline since August. House Speaker  John Boehner  insisted on
immediate negotiations over the debt ceiling, while Obama said
he’ll only talk once the government shutdown is ended and the
borrowing limit raised.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its global outlook for
this year and next as capital outflows further weaken  emerging
markets , and warned that a U.S. government default could
“seriously damage” the world economy. The IMF maintained its
growth forecasts for Japan, while saying the central bank should
be prepared for another round of monetary stimulus if it doesn’t
manage to boost inflation expectations to its 2 percent target.  “The concern about a U.S. default is weighing on stocks,
as if that happens, the fear is that we’ll fall into an abyss,”
said  Hiroichi Nishi , a Tokyo-based equities manager at SMBC
Nikko Securities, a unit of Japan’s second-biggest lender. “But
if the ceiling is raised, shares are likely to soar and so there
is demand for buying at the lower end of the range.”  SoftBank, Yahoo  SoftBank dropped 5.7 percent to 7,000 yen for the biggest
drop on the Nikkei 225 and biggest drag on the Topix. Citigroup
cut its rating on the stock as the market’s expectations may be
too high from the likely benefits from SoftBank’s Sprint Corp.
investment.  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689)  retreated for a second day, sinking 3.7
percent to 515 yen, after saying it will eliminate vendor fees
for its shopping and auction websites.  Among other stocks that fell, Mizuho Financial Group Inc.,
Japan’s third-largest bank by market value, dropped 1 percent to
204 yen after saying a former top executive knew it was lending
to crime groups.  Wage Expectations  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Japanese stocks will extend a
world-beating rally as surging corporate earnings result in
higher wages, supporting shares that benefit from domestic
spending. The  Topix (TPX)  will climb to 1,250 in three months, a 7.1
percent gain from today’s close, said Kathy Matsui, Tokyo-based
chief Japan strategist at the bank.  “The next big catalyst for reflation is when profit growth
translates into higher incomes,” Matsui said in an interview in
Tokyo on Oct. 7. “We have to wait a little while as wages won’t
rise overnight. But at the end of the day, one of the key
transmission mechanisms of reflation to households is via higher
incomes.”  The Topix traded at 1.22 times book value today, compared
with 2.43 for the  S&P 500  and 1.72 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index yesterday. The Japanese gauge’s 30-day historic  volatility 
was at 18.6, compared with its five-year median of 19.32.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  