-- Jefferies Posts 18 Days of Trading Losses, Most Since ’11
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-10-09T17:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/jefferies-posts-18-days-of-trading-losses-most-since-11.html
Jefferies Group LLC, the investment
bank that posted an 88 percent decline in fixed-income trading
revenue in the fiscal quarter ended Aug. 31, said it had 18 days
of losses in the period, the most since 2011.  The biggest daily trading loss was more than $10 million,
New York-based Jefferies said today in a regulatory filing. The
company’s traders would have lost money on 11 days without the
firm’s August 2012 investment in Knight Capital Group Inc.,
Jefferies said. Jefferies posted 26 days of trading losses in
the fiscal third quarter of 2011, the company said in a  filing 
at the time.  Jefferies, acquired by  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  in March,
reported an 83 percent decline in its fiscal third-quarter
profit. Total revenue from buying and selling securities fell to
the lowest level since the fourth quarter of 2008.  “We experienced a very challenging summer in our fixed-income businesses due to the rising-rate environment, spread
widening, redemptions experienced by our client base which
heavily muted trading, and related mark-to-market writedowns
within our inventory,” Jefferies Chief Executive Officer
Richard Handler, who also runs Leucadia, said in a Sept. 17
statement.  ‘Most Unsettled’  Average daily value-at-risk, or VaR, a measure of potential
trading losses, was $11 million in the period ended Aug. 31,
according to the filing today. That compares with $8.77 million
in the quarter ended May 31 and $10.5 million in the same period
in 2012. Excluding the Knight investment, VaR was $7.24 million
in the fiscal third quarter this year.  Bond markets were “most unsettled” in June and “more
balanced” in July and August, Handler said. Client activity
strengthened and fixed-income performance improved in September,
he said.  Analysts have been cutting their third-quarter profit
estimates for the biggest Wall Street banks amid a decline in
trading. Brad Hintz, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst,
trimmed Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s per-share earnings estimate
for the three months ended Sept. 30 by 15 percent and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s by 20 percent, according to a Sept. 27 note.  Fixed-income trading revenue at the biggest U.S. banks will
probably fall 20 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier amid lower volume, Richard Staite, an analyst at
Atlantic Equities LLP, said in a Sept. 23 note. That led him to
cut his estimate for Goldman Sachs’s per-share third-quarter
earnings by 18 percent and Morgan Stanley’s by 25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  