-- Jobs Data Integrity at Risk in Prolonged U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-10-09T20:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/jobs-data-integrity-at-risk-in-prolonged-u-s-shutdown.html
The integrity of U.S. data on
joblessness, one of the main measures of the strength of the
economy, is at risk the longer some government agencies remain
closed, according to former Labor Department officials.  Workers at the Census Bureau this month would normally
begin canvassing  households , starting on Oct. 13, to ask people
if they were employed during the previous week. A delay caused
by the partial government shutdown means Americans will be
reaching further back into their memories to come up with
answers, raising the possibility that some responses used to
derive the  unemployment rate  will be inaccurate.  “I’m really worried not just about possibly missing data,
but I’m worried about muddying the signal even after we are back
to collecting the data,” Katharine Abraham, commissioner for
the Bureau of Labor Statistics from October 1993 to October
2001, said in a telephone interview. “If you collect the
information too late, you know the information is not going to
be reliable.”  Any suspicion about the dependability of the figures and
the likely economic damage caused by an extended shutdown gives
Federal Reserve officials reason to delay trimming their $85
billion-a-month in bond purchases, said  Dean Maki , chief U.S.
economist at Barclays Plc in New York, and a former Fed
researcher. Central bankers have cited the unemployment rate as
one of the thresholds they’ll use to determine when to stop
pumping more money into the economy and eventually raise their
benchmark  interest rate .  Fed Policy  “The Fed is making a big point that it’s data-dependent,
but data dependence only works if there are data releases coming
out,” Maki said in an interview. “The data vacuum could push
the Fed to wait. It could conceivably affect a December taper if
the shutdown were to last long enough.”  Stocks rose, after the benchmark index’s biggest two-day
slump since June, amid speculation lawmakers will reach a deal
to raise the debt ceiling. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
increased 0.1 percent to 1,656.4 at the close in  New York .  Census workers query about 60,000 households a month,
either in person or by telephone, to find out how many family
members 16 years or older were working or looking for a job
during the week that includes the 12th of the month, making the
October reference period this week.  Staff typically begins contacting Americans on the Sunday
after the survey week ends, in this case Oct. 13. The
information is then shared with BLS analysts, who use it to
calculate the size of the workforce and the jobless rate.  Data Collection  Quality issues aside, once the Census Bureau reopens, it
will be able to gather the information quickly, said Abraham,
who was the BLS commissioner during the last government shutdown
that lasted from Dec. 15, 1995 to Jan. 6, 1996.  “The Census Bureau folks were just amazing” the last time
around, said Abraham, now a professor of economics and survey
methodology at the  University of Maryland  in  College Park .
“They are so committed to getting out and collecting the
data.” The amount of time it takes to gather the information
usually lasts a little more than a week, she said.  The October data aren’t the only concern for Keith Hall,
the BLS commissioner from January 2008 to January 2012, and now
a senior research fellow at the  Mercatus Center  at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax, Virginia.  Analysts from the BLS probably completed most of the work
on September household figures before their offices closed Oct.
1, he said in a telephone interview. That means some at the
agency already know last month’s jobless rate, said Hall. The
former head of the BLS recalled wandering into the secure area,
where the analysts crunch the numbers, days before a release to
get an early read.  September Figures  “There are people running around right now who know what
the unemployment rate was for September,” Hall said. The
report, originally scheduled to be released on Oct. 4, has been
postponed indefinitely.  The BLS  website  says that during the shutdown, the agency
will not collect data, issue reports or respond to public
inquiries.  Research by economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New
York last year showed the jobless rate and payroll figures were
among the three pieces of economic data that had the biggest
impact on stock and bond markets. The other was the  Institute
for Supply Management ’s factory index.  There is precedent for releasing economic reports out of
concern for a data breach. In a memo detailing contingency plans
for the government shutdown, BLS Commissioner Erica Groshen
cited the 1995 lapse in appropriations, which she said
“occurred after the consumer-price index estimates had been
prepared but before they were released to the public.”  CPI Report  “The risk of disclosure of the CPI data during a shutdown
was deemed to be unacceptable and releasing the CPI report was
deemed to be part of the orderly cessation of activities,” she
said in the memo. As a result, the Office of Management and
Budget authorized retaining some staff to release the data.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in June the central bank
would probably end its bond-buying program when the jobless rate
was around 7 percent. Policy makers had pledged since December
they won’t consider raising the interest rate on loans between
banks as long as unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent. The rate
unexpectedly dropped to a more than four-year low of 7.3 percent
in August as Americans left the  labor force , the last available
figures showed.  The BLS also surveys employers representing almost 560,000
worksites to calculate changes in payrolls, hours and earnings.
Those results will probably be less subject to error because of
the government shutdown, Abraham and Hall agreed. Businesses and
government agencies will just review tax records for the pay
period covering the 12th of the month, taking guesswork out of
the equation, they said.  Government Websites  Nonetheless, a delay may still have consequences, Abraham
said. Employers are prompted to respond online, something they
may not be able to do if government websites are shut down, she
said.  Concern over the soundness of economic data won’t go away
once the government reopens, said Abraham. The need to cut
federal spending will keep pressure on statistical agencies to
trim budgets and take shortcuts.  “I’m worried about this acute problem of the shutdown, but
I’m also worried about this chronic problem of the cuts in
funding,” said Abraham. “These cuts are undermining the
quality of the data.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  