-- JPMorgan-Funded Ph.D. Program Troubles Some Faculty
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-10-10T18:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/jpmorgan-funded-ph-d-program-at-delaware-troubles-some-faculty.html
(Corrects that JPMorgan may be offered seat on dissertation
committees in second paragraph of story published Oct. 9.)  A proposed Ph.D. program in financial
services analytics at the University of  Delaware , funded by a
$16.5 million pledge from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , has some faculty
uneasy about the bank’s potential influence.  The biggest U.S. bank may be offered a seat on dissertation
committees, and it would advise on faculty for the program,
according to  Bruce Weber , dean of the university’s  Alfred Lerner
College of Business & Economics .  While companies and business leaders are frequent donors to
universities, at issue is whether JPMorgan would have too much
say over the curriculum and research. The school is training
future financial leaders and the bank would offer relevant
expertise to them and a pipeline for employment, Weber said.  “I’d be worried if JPMorgan had no interest in giving us
advice,” said Weber, a professor of business administration, in
an interview. “In a fast-moving field, sometimes industry can
run ahead of the academics and you need that reality check and
need the ability to test the relevance of what we’re working
on.”  JPMorgan is no stranger to the  University of Delaware . It
opened an  innovation center  in 2011 on campus where students,
faculty and employees work on research projects, according to
the website. The center also provides jobs for students. Weber
said he approached JPMorgan, which has also worked with the
business school on undergraduate courses, about taking their
ties “to the next level.”  ‘Too Close’  Some faculty members are concerned about a possible
conflict of interest. While hiring graduates would be a good
thing, how much sway will the company have over the university,
asked  Sheldon Pollack , a professor of law and political science
and the past president of the faculty senate.  “Are we becoming the JPMorgan business school?” Pollack
said in an interview. “The relationship might be a little bit
too close. I understand deans need money.”  Lisa Bennett, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment.  The donation covers about half of the cost of the doctorate
program over 10 years: $14 million would go toward scholarships
and faculty salaries and $2.5 million to expand the building
that would house the program, said Andrea Boyle, a university
spokeswoman.  “People have to be very careful to take the money and make
sure there’s no strings attached,” Pollack said.  The school requires one seat on dissertation committees be
taken by someone outside the university, though JPMorgan isn’t
entitled to have that seat, Weber said. It’s an option.  ‘Ultimate’ Authority  While the bank would have a right to consult about faculty
positions for the program, the university retains ultimate
hiring authority, according to the draft agreement, part of
which was provided by the school. Teachers would come from the
existing faculty. JPMorgan also wouldn’t have veto power over
dissertation topics, areas of study or hires, Weber said.  The doctorate program isn’t a done deal and needs approval
from the University Senate. The curriculum would be designed by
faculty members in the colleges of engineering and business.  “We have clear policies and guidelines for academic
freedom,” Weber said. “We have an obligation to make sure that
content is relevant and valuable to the industry.”  As long as conflict lines are policed, the relationship
should be fine, said Harvey Dale, professor of Philanthropy and
the Law at  New York  University.  “If they are properly managed and addressed, then it
becomes perfectly normal,” Dale said in an interview. “That
doesn’t mean that all members of the faculty will agree.”  The school is named for Lerner, the late MBNA Corp.
chairman and chief executive officer, after the company donated
$ 20 million  in his memory following Lerner’s death in 2002.  The story was first reported by Inside Higher Ed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  