-- Julius Baer Sees 25% Gain for Asian Shipbuilders to Steelmakers
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-10-09T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/julius-baer-sees-25-gain-for-asian-shipbuilders-to-steelmakers.html
Bank Julius Baer & Co. is buying
emerging Asian stocks most tied to the global economy for the
first time since January, betting steelmakers and shipbuilders
will surge 25 percent in the next year as growth rebounds.  The asset manager, which oversees about $336 billion, added
cyclical equities in  South Korea ,  China  and  Taiwan , said
Singapore-based head of Asia research  Mark Matthews . The
strengthening U.S. economy will boost exports from Asia and
European growth has been better than expected, while  Japan ’s
output is recovering, he said.  “Put that all together and we get a picture of the major
economies in the world getting better,” Matthews said in an
interview this week. “Normally we do not like heavy industrials
because they are generally very volatile in their earnings and
they have booms and busts. However, once in a while there is a
reason to own if something positive is happening.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Industrial Index surged 9.6 percent
last quarter, outperforming the broader regional gauge by the
most in 3 1/2 years. Growth worldwide will accelerate to 2.9
percent next year from 2 percent in 2013 as expansion in
developed nations offsets a slowdown in some emerging economies,
strategist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  Julius Baer  favors companies in the steel, petrochemical
and shipbuilding industries, Matthews said. It sold some U.S.
stocks to fund the emerging Asian investments, he said, without
naming the companies.  Improving Data  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly picked up in September to
the strongest since April 2011, while euro-area services output
expanded more than estimated, data this month showed. Confidence
among Japan’s large manufacturers rose last month to the highest
since the early stages of the global credit crisis in 2007,
while a gauge of services industries in China increased to a
six-month high.  South Korea’s  Kospi index , on which Samsung Electronics Co.
and Hyundai Motor Co. have the heaviest weightings, jumped 12
percent from its low this year on June 25.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s biggest
shipbuilder; Posco,  Asia ’s fourth-biggest steelmaker by output;
and chemical maker LG Chem Ltd. are also among the  10 biggest
members  of the equity benchmark.  South Korean companies have “operations all over the world
in sensitive sectors,” said Matthews. “When people think Korea
they usually think Samsung phones and Hyundai cars because
that’s what we see the most of. But what I’m interested in are
more deep cyclical companies like shipbuilders and construction
companies.”  Attractive Valuations  Matthews cited  inexpensive valuations  of Korean shares as
another reason for optimism. The Kospi traded at 11.1 times
estimated earnings at the last close, compared with about 13.3
for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index and 14.9 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index on Oct. 8.  While recent data points to a broad economic recovery, the
 International Monetary Fund  this week cut its global outlook for
this year and next. Advanced economies are strengthening, while
emerging market economies have slowed, it said, warning that an
impasse over the U.S. debt limit may lead to a default that
could “seriously damage” the world economy.  “We still have our largest equity exposure in the U.S.,
which means we still like the U.S.,” Matthews said, referring
to client assets the bank helps manage. “But we are watching
other regions very closely and particularly  Europe , where there
seems to be a more meaningful than expected recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  