-- KKR Acquires Two Industrial-Product Makers From Melrose
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-10-09T23:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/kkr-acquires-two-industrial-product-makers-from-melrose.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the buyout firm led by
Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , agreed to purchase two
manufacturing businesses from  Melrose Industries Plc (MRO)  for about
$1 billion.  KKR will acquire Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Crosby Group and
York, Pennsylvania-based Acco Material Handling Solutions, the
New York-based investment firm said in a statement today. The
deal is expected to be completed by the end of this year.  “Crosby and Acco have long and distinguished histories of
providing distributors and end customers with the highest-quality products and customer support to meet their lifting and
rigging needs,” Pete Stavros, head of KKR’s industrials
investing team, said in the statement.  Crosby makes hooks, slings and other items used in lifting
and rigging equipment in the oil and gas, construction and
mining industries. Acco’s products include hoists, carts and
trailers used in manufacturing.  In a separate deal, KKR agreed to purchase a stake in
Weststar Aviation Services Sdn. for 642 million ringgit ($200
million), marking the firm’s first investment in Malaysia.  The transaction will give KKR a “substantial minority”
stake in Weststar, which provides offshore helicopter
transportation services to oil and gas companies, according to a
joint statement by the firms.  KKR in July completed a $3.85 billion buyout of Gardner
Denver Inc., which makes industrial equipment such as
compressors and pumps.  Melrose, based in London, buys manufacturing companies with
the intention of improving their performance and selling them.
In August it  sold  Marelli Motori SpA, an Italian maker of
electric generators and motors, to  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  for 212
million euros ($287 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  