-- KKR Buys Weststar Aviation Stake in First Malaysian Foray
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n ,   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-10-10T04:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/kkr-buys-weststar-aviation-stake-in-first-malaysian-investment.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , agreed to buy a stake in
Weststar Aviation Services Sdn. for 642 million ringgit ($200
million), marking the firm’s first investment in Malaysia.  The transaction will give the New York-based firm a
“substantial minority” stake in Weststar, which provides
offshore helicopter transportation services to oil and gas
companies, according to a joint statement by the firms. The firm
may be listed next year, Weststar Group Managing Director Syed Azman Syed Ibrahim told reporters in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  KKR’s investment is being made from its $6 billion KKR
Asian Fund II, according to the statement. In January, the firm
more than doubled its investment in Masan Consumer Corp., a
Vietnamese fish sauce maker, to $359 million, currently its
biggest in  Southeast Asia .  KKR invested in Avincis, an Alicante, Spain-based mission-critical helicopter service provider, in 2010, according to the
U.S. firm’s website. Avincis derives 44 percent of revenue from
life and rescue services and 21 percent from energy support
services, according to its  website .  “If the value is right, we might consider for an IPO next
year, but not now,” Syed Azman said. “We want to grow the
company further.”  KKR has seven offices in the Asia-Pacific region. Singapore
is home to the firm’s headquarters for Southeast Asia, where it
has invested $1.5 billion since 2005.  “Our current priority is to deliver and grow the company
further,” Ming Lu, a KKR partner, told reporters in Kuala
Lumpur. “Doing an IPO is definitely one of the options.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  