-- Koch Industries Distances Itself From Obamacare Fight
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-10-10T04:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/koch-industries-distances-itself-from-obamacare-fight.html
Koch Industries  Inc., a holding
company led by two billionaire brothers who help finance
Republican-aligned public policy groups, sent a letter to U.S.
senators yesterday saying the company hasn’t advocated using
Obamacare as leverage in the debate about  government spending .  Congress should focus on “balancing the budget, tightening
and cutting government spending, curbing cronyism, and
eliminating market-distorting subsidies and mandates,” the
letter said.  The correspondence was a response to criticism of the Koch
brothers by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and it came as two
distinct Republican strategies on addressing a partial
government shutdown, entering its 10th day, are becoming clear.  Some companies, business groups and Republican lawmakers
are stepping up their calls to end the shutdown -- precipitated
by the party’s push to derail Obamacare -- and to shift the
debate to government spending cuts. Others, including small-government Tea Party supporters, are urging lawmakers to hold
firm against funding President  Barack Obama ’s Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act of 2010.  The potential schism between groups that typically rally
around Republicans could prompt fractures among lawmakers and
muddy the party’s messaging in what could become high-stakes
negotiations with the White House and congressional Democrats.  Quoting Lincoln  Tea Party Patriots national coordinator Jenny Beth Martin
warned of such an outcome in a statement yesterday.  “We must remember the reason we are fighting and remain
united in our opposition to Obamacare,” she said. “To quote
President Lincoln, ‘A house divided against itself cannot
stand.’”  The shutdown began Oct. 1 after  House Republicans  insisted
that any stopgap funding bill to keep the government running,
known as a continuing resolution, defund Obamacare. The
Democrat-led Senate refused.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said on the Senate floor Oct. 8
that the Kochs “have been raising and spending hundreds of
millions of dollars to get us where we are right now,” and
posted similar comments to his Twitter account.  Charles and  David Koch  -- the world’s sixth and seventh
richest people, worth a combined $88.6 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index -- are active in promoting small-government policies.  Pairing Spending  Americans for Prosperity, which the Kochs co-founded and
David Koch said last year he continues to finance, in a news
release on Oct. 8 urged Congress to “pair critically needed
spending reforms with an increase in the nation’s debt
ceiling.” Separately, the group is calling for a full repeal of
Obamacare.  “We just see our role here as going directly to Americans
and talking to them about the impact of the law, rather than
making it a Capitol Hill fight,” Americans for Prosperity
spokesman Levi Russell said in a statement yesterday.  That stance echoes the Koch Industries letter.  Reid gave “false information,” wrote Philip Ellender,
president of government and public affairs of the Koch Companies
Public Sector LLC. Koch Industries is a closely held company
based in Wichita,  Kansas , whose ventures include biofuel and
fertilizer makers and commodity-trading services.  “Koch believes that Obamacare will increase deficits, lead
to an overall lowering of the standard of health care in
America, and raise taxes,” Ellender wrote. “However, Koch has
not taken a position on the legislative tactic of tying the
continuing resolution to defunding Obamacare nor have we lobbied
on legislative provisions defunding Obamacare.”  Ryan Omission  House Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican,
wrote in an editorial in yesterday’s Wall Street Journal that
shutdown negotiations should center on reducing government
 spending  and revising the  tax code . The editorial didn’t
reference the health-care law.  Some lawmakers are saying they need businesses to speak up
about the importance of ending the stalemate, especially because
the government could exhaust its borrowing authority as soon as
Oct. 17.  “Where is everybody?” asked Senator Michael Bennet about
the business community. “Part of it is people averting their
eyes from a mess they don’t want to associate with,” the
Colorado Democrat said yesterday at a Bloomberg Government
breakfast.  He added: “We need them on this issue.”  Retailers’ Appeal  The  National Retail Federation , the trade group for an
industry whose employees this year have given 60 percent of
their donations to Republicans, yesterday called on lawmakers to
pass legislation funding the government and raising the debt
ceiling. The group made no mention of the health-care issue.  Some small-government advocacy groups don’t want to give up
the health-care fight.  The  Tea Party  Patriots, which says it has 3,400 chapters
across the country, in a statement criticized Ryan’s editorial
for “failing to address the concerns the American people have
over Obamacare.”  “Not once did Mr. Ryan mention the program that is hurting
hard-working Americans,” Martin said.  Heritage Action for America, a Washington-based group that
advocates for smaller government, said health care shouldn’t be
exorcised from the budget debate. Heritage led the “defund
Obamacare” effort by holding a nine-city town-hall tour in
August to rally opposition to the law.  ‘Core Fight’  “Anything that comes out of this has to address the core
fight, which is Obamacare,” Michael Needham, chief executive
officer of Heritage Action, said yesterday at a breakfast in
 Washington  sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor.  Heritage is a nonprofit that doesn’t disclose its donors.
Needham said the Kochs gave $500,000 to the group, adding that
they weren’t the largest single contributors. He declined to
name other donors.  Rob Tappan, a spokesman for Koch, said in an e-mail that
“neither  Charles Koch  nor David Koch has ever given personally
to Heritage Action.”  Rather, the Heritage money from the Kochs could have come
through a conduit. Freedom Partners, an Arlington, Virginia-based nonprofit that is run by a former Washington liaison of
the Kochs and which includes as board members several Koch
executives, gave Heritage $500,000, according to Internal
Revenue Service documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  