-- NASA Keeps Chinese Away From Aliens
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-10-09T00:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/nasa-keeps-chinese-away-from-aliens.html
If Martians landed on National
Aeronautics and Space Administration property, Chinese nationals
wouldn’t be part of the welcoming committee.  That’s one potential -- if far-fetched -- consequence of
 federal legislation  and a  March moratorium  that bans people from
China and a handful of other nations from being granted new
access to  NASA  facilities. NASA Administrator Charles Bolden’s
rationale for the moratorium was to protect the U.S. and its
space technology from spies. This came in the wake of  espionage
allegations  at a NASA facility that turned out to be false. (The
downloaded secrets were actually, ahem,  downloaded porn .)  An actual consequence of the U.S.’s actions is that Chinese
students and researchers will not be allowed to attend a
November  conference on alien worlds  at NASA’s Ames Research
Center in  Mountain View ,  California . As a result, several
prominent researchers are boycotting the conference.  This may not seem like the end of the world -- and of
course, it isn’t (well, depending on how much you fear aliens).
There are issues more important to the U.S.- China  relationship
than Chinese attendance at discussions of “Earth Analogues and
Super-Earths” in facilities owned by the U.S. government. But in
China -- a country that sends an  ever-increasing number  of
students to U.S. colleges -- the moratorium is for many a symbol
of discrimination and national humiliation. Others resort to a
more pragmatic, even sympathetic view, asking, “Wouldn’t China
do the same?”  The U.K.’s Guardian newspaper  deserves  credit for laying
bare the struggles of exoplanet-seeking Chinese. In a Friday
article that’s been translated,  distributed  and read across
 China’s Internet , the paper described an “extraordinary
backlash” from U.S. researchers at news that NASA had turned
down applications from Chinese nationals to attend the
conference. Still, few in China have paid much attention to the
efforts of non-Chinese to defend the Chinese right to
participate.  Instead, the focus has been on the exclusion. Many users of
Chinese social media are invoking the  Chinese Exclusion Act , the
deplorable 1882 law that placed a moratorium on immigration to
the U.S. by ethnic Chinese workers. On Sunday, Deng Huabei, who
works for MSN China, sent  this tweet  from his account on Sina
Weibo, China’s most popular microblogging service: “I hope the
U.S. keeps a clear distance from McCarthyism and never
implements another Chinese Exclusion Act,” he wrote. “Since
science transcends national boundaries, the provision won’t work
out anyway.”  Some microbloggers have been far more direct, and
contemporary, in their explanations of the ban. Song Hongbin, a
well-known commentator and author with a decidedly anti-American
bent,  vented  Sunday on Sina Weibo: “We should sue NASA. No
matter the reason given by NASA, the underlying reason for this
ban is undoubtedly related to racial discrimination.” Others
have struck even harsher blows, such as a Switzerland-based
Chinese microblogger who conjured up a  notorious sign  that
Shanghai’s 20th-century colonial overseers allegedly once posted
outside of a park (and which probably did not exist). “It
reminded me of an old sign,” she  tweeted  Sunday. “‘No dogs or
Chinese allowed.’ This is a step backward.”  The online anger is certainly real, but -- like so much on
the Internet -- it is also selective. The Guardian and Chinese
netizens almost fully ignore the fact that the moratorium also
 applies  to people from  Burma , Eritrea,  Iran ,  North Korea ,  Saudi
Arabia ,  Sudan  and  Uzbekistan . Admittedly, it’s unlikely that
Eritrea and Sudan have that many exoplanet scientists rushing to
attend this conference -- almost as likely as it is that people
from those nations will perform widespread espionage at NASA
facilities.  Chinese nationals, however, carry the burden of their
country’s  weak commitment  to intellectual-property protection
and  strong commitment  to espionage. Right or wrong, considerable
suspicion surrounds the Chinese in relation to the U.S.
government’s tools and facilities.  Curiously, the most eloquent defenses of such suspicions do
not come from Bolden or the  members  of Congress who have tried
to prevent the U.S. from collaborating with China on space
science. Instead, they come from pragmatic Chinese
microbloggers. On Monday, the online portal Tencent used the
Guardian story to kick off discussion on the topic. It also
featured a totally  unscientific poll  asking respondents how they
felt about the moratorium. Almost one-third of the 56,000
respondents as of Tuesday morning said that it didn’t matter to
them.  Many of the more than 5,000 comments on Tencent’s story
approved of, or at least sympathized with, NASA’s actions. Such
feelings were echoed on Sina Weibo.  “I believe it’s our bad record in regard to intellectual
property that makes NASA overcautious,” explained one Tencent
commenter. “Acquiring intellectual property costs time and money
and even takes a toll on the environment. Proper protection of
intellectual property makes inventors feel more secure. So, in
light of China’s poor record on intellectual property
protection, the act of NASA is reasonable.”  Another Tencent commenter showed a particularly pragmatic
attitude: “NASA did nothing wrong. We didn’t allow American
journalists to enter the court during Bo Xilai’s trial, did we?
The  aerospace industry  involved many state secrets. Frankly
speaking, America does not trust China and fears spies may take
advantage of the meeting. China is not an American ally. Is it
wrong to beware of China?”  From an American standpoint, such comments might sound
refreshingly candid. Perhaps they are. Yet they are also
indicative of how trans-Pacific suspicions undermine the spirit
of cooperation necessary to carry the expensive international
research collaborations that underlie so much of  modern science .
NASA’s ban only intensifies the ill will while ensuring that at
least some of China’s top scientists and students will think
twice about whether the U.S. is the right place for them to
pursue an education and a career.  (Adam Minter, the  Shanghai  correspondent for the World View
blog, is the author of “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry that will be published in November.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 