-- National Bank Gains as Foreign Lenders Retreat, CEO Says
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-09T20:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/national-bank-gains-as-foreign-lenders-retreat-ceo-says.html
National Bank of Canada (NA) , the
country’s sixth-largest lender by assets, is gaining in
 investment banking  as foreign firms retreat, Chief Executive
Officer Louis Vachon said.  “We’ve benefited from the pullout of the foreign banks,”
Vachon said today in Toronto during an investor presentation on
investment banking. Canadian companies and governments looking
to arrange deals are deciding that the Montreal-based lender is
an alternative to the Toronto banks as foreign firms show an
“off-and-on commitment” to  Canada , he said.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, has trimmed staff in
Canada amid plans announced last year to eliminate 10,000 jobs
worldwide and dismantle parts of the investment bank to increase
profitability. St. Louis-based Stifel Financial Corp. said in
August it was closing operations in Toronto and Calgary, while
Macquarie Group Ltd.,  Australia ’s largest investment bank, is
exiting its real estate and leveraged-finance business in
Canada, a person with direct knowledge of the decision said last
month.  The lender’s National Bank Financial unit is the top
arranger of debt sales for Canadian governments this year, as it
was in 2012 and 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The firm ranks sixth for corporate bond sales in 2013.  ‘Slow’ Expansion  National Bank won’t make significant changes to its
business mix, Vachon said. About 26 percent of the firm’s
activities are in financial markets, compared with 52 percent
for personal and commercial banking and 20 percent from  wealth
management , Vachon, 51, said. Financial markets will drop to
about 23 percent by 2017, he said.  “What will continue to happen, though, in terms of our
geographical footprint is a slow, steady pan-Canadian
expansion,” Vachon said. “It’s slow and steady because we
still see a lot of opportunities in  Quebec .”  The bank will consider “mid-size acquisitions” that won’t
dilute shares, with a focus on purchases outside Quebec, Vachon
said. Financial markets revenue from outside the province should
account for 43 percent of the unit’s total by 2017, up from 36
percent last year, Vachon said.  Investors have criticized National Bank for being too
focused on Quebec and too reliant on wholesale banking, which
led to expectations of slower growth than its Canadian peers,
Vachon said.  “Expectations are still pretty low, at least that’s what
the market is telling us,” Vachon said. “National Bank may not
be the highest nominal growth story, but I think we still have
the best risk-adjusted growth story.”  National Bank climbed 0.2 percent to C$84.83 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto. The shares gained 9.8 percent this year, compared with
the 7.9 percent  advance  of the eight-company Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  