-- Netflix Seen Bidding for DHX to Add Teletubbies: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-10-09T14:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/netflix-seen-bidding-for-dhx-to-add-teletubbies-real-m-a.html
Teletubbies , Inspector Gadget and
Care Bears are making children’s TV show producer  DHX Media Ltd. (DHX) 
ripe for a takeover.  After adding these characters to its portfolio through two
acquisitions in the last year, DHX now offers buyers a library
of more than 9,000 half-hour  TV show  segments, including “Yo
Gabba Gabba!” and “Madeline,” and associated merchandising
rights. Sales at  Canada ’s DHX are projected to rise 73 percent
over the next three years, one of the fastest growth rates among
similar-sized North American entertainment companies, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The C$348 million ($336 million) producer may lure Netflix
Inc. with programs that can add to the streaming service’s push
for more viewers, said Byron Capital Markets Ltd. Toymakers
Hasbro Inc. or  Mattel (MAT)  Inc., which bought the producer of “Bob
the Builder” last year, also could be interested, according to
Global Maxfin Capital Inc. Jacob Securities Inc. said DHX’s
characters would be a good fit for  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) 
as the studio expands in TV production.  “This is one of the largest independent portfolios of
children’s entertainment,” Sameet Kanade, a Toronto-based
analyst at Jacob Securities, said in a phone interview. “It’s a
no-brainer.”  Kanade estimates that DHX should fetch at least C$5 a share
in a sale, a 48 percent premium to yesterday’s closing  price  of
C$3.38. Today, the shares rose 3.3 percent to $3.49 at 10:03
a.m. in Toronto for the second-biggest gain in the Standard &
Poor’s/Toronto Stock Exchange SmallCap Index of 220 companies.  Cookie Jar  Representatives for Halifax, Nova Scotia-based DHX didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  DHX last month bought “Teletubbies” producer Ragdoll
Worldwide Ltd., building on its 2012 purchase of Cookie Jar
Entertainment Inc., owner of the rights to “Inspector Gadget”
and “Care Bears.”  The company’s expanded portfolio of children’s programming,
which also includes  Super Mario  and  Paddington Bear  shows,
bolsters its appeal as a takeover candidate, according to Kathy Schutz, an executive vice president and analyst at Bard
Associates Inc.  “They’re becoming a real mainstream player in children’s
entertainment,” Schutz, whose Chicago-based firm oversees about
$300 million including  DHX shares , said in a phone interview.
“They have just an extremely valuable  library .”  Kids’ shows are attractive assets because they gain a new
audience every few years, can be easily dubbed in different
languages and generate lucrative ancillary revenue from
licensing and merchandising, said Ralph Garcea, managing
director and head of research at Global Maxfin.  YouTube, Hulu  “Inspector Gadget” can just as easily air in French or
German as English, and a  Yo Gabba Gabba  doll appeals to a child
in  South Africa  as well as Canada, he said.  Plus, DHX has the potential to distribute more content
digitally through Google Inc.’s YouTube,  Netflix (NFLX)  and Hulu LLC.  After reporting record  revenue  of C$97.3 million for the
year ended in June, analysts estimate sales will climb 73
percent to C$168 million within three years. That tops the
growth rate at 89 percent of North American broadcasting and
entertainment companies with market values exceeding $100
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  DHX could attract interest from Netflix as the largest U.S.
subscription-streaming service develops original content and
competes for viewers with traditional media companies, said Dev Bhangui, a Toronto-based analyst at Byron Capital.  ‘Formidable Content’  Netflix is going to “look for the guy who has the most
formidable content,” Bhangui said in a phone interview. DHX
stands out as the largest independent provider of children’s TV
programming, he said.  DreamWorks may seek to acquire DHX to build out its
portfolio of kids’ content, which already includes animated
films such as “Shrek” and “Shark Tale,” according to
analysts Kanade of Jacob Securities and Aravinda Galappatthige
of Canaccord Financial Inc.  DreamWorks Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg  said
in June he’s seeking to reduce the company’s dependence on films
and double TV production revenue to more than $200 million
annually by 2015. Last year, DreamWorks paid $155 million for
Classic Media, adding TV shows including “Casper the Friendly
Ghost” and “Lassie.”  “They’re trying to have these television versions of their
brands,” Galappatthige, a Toronto-based analyst, said in a
phone interview. “The more you’re able to package those assets,
the better prices you get.”  Mattel, Hasbro  In addition to media companies, DHX could even draw
toymakers such as Mattel or Hasbro, according to Garcea of
Global Maxfin. Mattel, which already owned brands including
Barbie and Hot Wheels, acquired Hit Entertainment Ltd. last year
for $680 million, adding characters such as Barney, Bob the
Builder and Thomas the Tank Engine.  “Someone like a  Hasbro (HAS)  or a Mattel can leverage those
properties to the licensing and merchandising side,” Garcea
said of DHX’s children’s programming.  He said the company could easily fetch a 40 percent to 50
percent premium. That would be as much as C$5.07 a share, or
C$522 million.  A representative for Glendale, California-based DreamWorks
declined to comment on whether the company would be interested
in buying DHX. Representatives for  Los Gatos , California-based
Netflix, El Segundo, California-based Mattel and Pawtucket,
Rhode Island-based Hasbro didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Stock Doubling  DHX has gotten more expensive this year, with the stock
almost  doubling  to a record last week. The shares are up more
than ninefold since Entertainment One Ltd. abandoned a takeover
bid for DHX in 2008.  DHX’s market value of less than $350 million is still
easily digestible for larger acquirers, said Bhangui of Byron
Capital. Netflix has a market capitalization of $17.8 billion
while Mattel is valued at $13.9 billion.  Multi-billion dollar companies “can swallow this without
missing a heartbeat,” Bhangui said. With DHX’s acquisitions
bolstering its content library, “they will get taken out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  