-- NWR Buys Time as Creditors Agree to Amend Debt Covenants
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-10-09T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/new-world-resources-agrees-with-lenders-to-amend-credit-facility.html
New World Resources Plc (NWR) , the largest
Czech producer of coking coal, agreed with lenders to amend
financial covenants to its revolving credit facility after this
year’s record losses.  The Amsterdam-registered company agreed with creditors that
the financial covenants of its undrawn 100 million-euro ($135
million) facility won’t be tested until it expires on Feb. 7,
2014, it said late yesterday in an e-mailed statement. It’s the
second time this year its debt covenants have been waived and
amended.  Prices of coking coal began to plummet last year as clients
such as  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and  Evraz Plc (EVR)  limited production because
of smaller demand for steel from carmakers and other industrial
companies. NWR posted a net loss of 315.4 million euros in the
second quarter, on low commodity prices and falling demand from
steelmakers, and announced an asset disposal program.  Any further borrowing must be approved by the creditors,
the company said. Further conditions of the credit facility
amendment include stricter financial reporting, limitations on
dividend payments and a maximum net debt to 12-month earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of 5:1,
according to the statement.  Moody’s Investors Service on July 24 cut the company’s
rating to Caa1, nine steps below investment grade, from B2,
citing declining coal prices and the prospect of “challenging
market conditions” during the next 12 to 18 months. NWR’s debt
will probably equal 10 times Ebitda by year end, up from 3.8
times Ebitda at the end of 2012, Moody’s said in July.  NWR has since announced the sale of its OKK coking plant
unit for 95 million euros and said it will close down the loss-making Paskov mine by the end of next year. Paskov, one of the
four mines NWR operates in the country, incurs an annual loss of
about 1.5 billion koruna ($79 million) at current coking coal
prices, the company has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  