-- NFL Considers Playoff Expansion in 2015, Reducing Preseason
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-09T15:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/nfl-considers-playoff-expansion-in-2015-while-reducing-preseason.html
The  National Football League  is
considering an expanded postseason that would boost the number
of teams in the playoffs to 14 from 12 within two years.  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said yesterday at the league
meetings in  Washington  that playoff expansion is a priority for
the league’s competition committee in 2014. Because of
scheduling issues and negotiations with the players’ union and
television partners, the earliest such a change would be
implemented is after the 2015 season, Goodell said.  An expansion of the NFL postseason might also include a
reduction of the current four-game preseason schedule. Goodell
said while there’s still “a lot to be done” in the evaluation
process, the NFL’s goal is to create more fan interest.  “Does expanding the postseason allow other teams to get
into the dance with the potential of going on and winning the
 Super Bowl ?” Goodell said at a news conference at the
conclusion of the fall owners meeting. “That is a good thing
for fans. It is a good thing competitively. The games are so
close that it is realistic to think a team can have a great
second half, get into the playoffs and win the Super Bowl.”  Expanding the playoffs might help the NFL’s 32 teams offset
financial losses from a shorter preseason schedule in addition
to boosting the league’s television revenue. The sale of season-ticket packages in the NFL include a team’s eight home games as
well as two preseason contests, which bring in additional
concession and parking revenue.  Much of the NFL’s annual revenue of $9.7 billion is split
evenly among the league’s 32 teams.  “We need to continue to evaluate the quality of the
preseason,” Goodell said. “I don’t think it matches the
quality of what we do in the NFL, and we have to address that.”  12 Teams  The NFL has had a 12-team postseason since 1990. The
current playoff format of four division winners and two wild-card teams from each conference has been in place since the
league’s realignment in 2002.  The format for having seven playoff teams from each
conference would still have to be determined, though Goodell
said it’s probable there would be six games -- three in both the
AFC and NFC -- during the opening week of the postseason. There
are currently four games in the first round of the playoffs,
with two in each conference, involving the four wild-card teams
and the four lowest-seeded division winners.  Goodell said it’s possible that three first-round playoff
games could be played Saturday and three more on Sunday under a
14-team format, or all the games could be spread out to include
matchups on Friday and Monday as well.  “There are competitive consequences in there and
television consequences,” Goodell said. “If we do this, we
want to do it right, so we have to evaluate all those issues and
balance them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  