-- NYC Investment Chief Schloss Headed to Angelo, Gordon
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-10-09T23:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/nyc-chief-investment-officer-schloss-to-join-angelo-gordon.html
Larry Schloss, chief investment
officer of New York City’s $145 billion retirement system, is
leaving to become president of investment adviser Angelo, Gordon
& Co, Comptroller  John Liu  said.  Schloss, 59, a former global head of private equity at
 Credit Suisse First Boston , is departing three months before
Liu’s term ends. Schloss, who earned $224,000 a year, expanded
investments in  hedge funds  and  junk bonds  and hired more staff.
He also called for the city’s five funds, which farm out all of
their assets to more than 300 investment firms -- including New
York-based Angelo, Gordon -- to manage money internally.  “We were fortunate that Larry Schloss chose to enter
public service after building a sterling reputation in the
private sector,” Liu said today in a statement. “He has worked
tirelessly to improve the funds’ performance.”  During Schloss’s almost four-year tenure, pension assets
grew by $45 billion, and the funds returned 11.9 annually for
the three years ending June 30, Liu said. He also pared the
city’s private-equity portfolio of underperforming managers and
invested $700 million in funds that will finance housing,
including for people displaced by  Hurricane Sandy .  Seema Hingorani, who oversees hedge funds for the
comptroller’s Bureau of Asset Management, will serve as interim
chief investment officer, Liu said.  Wall Street  New York City pensions paid investment firms about $370
million in fees in fiscal 2012, according to its  financial
report . Schloss recommended that the pensions hire staff with
 Wall Street  experience and pay them higher wages to manage money
in-house. The approach would cut costs and boost returns, he
said. Trustees were skeptical and didn’t adopt the strategy.  While he’s joining a firm that oversees $24 billion assets,
including public pension money, Schloss said he still believes
that New York should manage money internally.  “The right number is probably 50-50 inside, outside,”
Schloss said in a telephone interview. “You’ve got to start
somewhere. It doesn’t change my view at all.”  The 38 staff members in the Bureau of Asset Management
oversee five funds for police, firefighters, teachers, school
administrators and civil-service workers. They get paid an
average of $100,000 a year, less than the median base salary of
a first-year Harvard Business School graduate.  Investment Returns  Angelo, Gordon oversees $24 billion in assets. The firm
manages $460 million for  New York City  in three different funds.
Returns have ranged from 13 percent to almost 20 percent since
inception, according to Liu’s office.  Schloss said he received a letter from the city’s Conflicts
of Interest Board clearing his move and will be prohibited from
contacting municipal officials for a year. He can’t receive fees
from any investments the city made with Angelo, Gordon while he
was chief investment officer.  “We are pleased Larry is joining us as president,” co-founder John Angelo said today in a statement. “He is a
seasoned investment professional who has provided leadership and
insight to both public and private institutions.”  Schloss will become a partner in the private firm and the
10th member of its executive committee, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  