-- Odd Lot Tally, EU Tobacco Rules, Danish Sifi: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/odd-lot-tally-eu-tobacco-rules-danish-sifi-compliance.html
A plan to start including U.S. stock
trades of fewer than 100 shares, known as odd lots, in the
official tally of American volume was delayed by seven weeks.  The change, which was supposed to take effect on Oct. 21,
will now start on Dec. 9, pending regulatory approval, according
to notices on the websites of New York-based  Nasdaq  OMX Group
Inc. and NYSE Euronext.  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo
White has set a mid-November deadline for market owners to
devise suggestions for preventing outages like Nasdaq’s three-hour halt on Aug. 22. That shutdown was caused by an error in
Nasdaq’s securities information processor, or SIP, the same
system exchanges are updating to accommodate odd lots. The Oct.
21 date for the odd lot transition was announced two weeks
before the Nasdaq malfunction.  Rising share prices and the spread of computer strategies
have reduced the size of stock trades, making more transactions
ineligible for inclusion in the public record.  Compliance Policy  EU Parliament Dilutes Proposal for Tougher Tobacco Rules  The  European Parliament  scaled back plans for more
stringent regulation of the tobacco industry, setting up a clash
with national governments over draft legislation meant to curb
smoking in  Europe .  The European Union assembly rejected a proposal to regulate
nicotine-containing goods like electronic cigarettes as
medicines, opting instead to apply rules on general product
safety. As part of a plan to ban the sale of cigarettes and
roll-your-own tobacco with characterizing flavors, the 28-nation
Parliament also voted to phase out menthol cigarettes over eight
years rather than three years agreed by EU governments.  The stance by the EU’s only directly elected institution
follows months of industry lobbying over the latest bid to
prevent young people from starting to smoke in Europe, where
tobacco-related illnesses are estimated to kill one person every
minute.  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , Europe’s largest cigarette
maker, praised what it called “sensible modifications” by the
European parliamentarians to the draft EU law while saying it is
still too tough.  A deal on the draft legislation, known as a directive,
could be reached by year-end, said Linda McAvan, a U.K.
Socialist who steered the draft law through the EU Parliament.
While she opposed the looser provisions for electronic and
menthol cigarettes, she expressed satisfaction that the assembly
upheld two central positions of governments regarding labels.  For more, click here.  Danish Lawmakers Extend Sifi Talks After Agreeing on Most Points  Danish lawmakers will continue talks on a bill for
systemically important banks this week after initially targeting
a deal planned for as early as yesterday.  Members of  Denmark ’s parliament committee overseeing banks
ended yesterday’s meeting after agreeing on a number of key
points including which banks are too big to fail and how much
capital the lenders must hold, two lawmakers who participated in
the talks said. They asked not to be identified by name because
the content of the talks is private.  The final bill, which would require a group of lenders led
by  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  to hold more capital than their smaller
competitors, is based on a proposal put forward by a government-appointed committee in March. Once parliament’s business
committee agrees on the wording of the legislation, the bill’s
passage into law is a formality.  An accord would mark the latest example of Scandinavian
legislators moving faster on bank regulation than the rest of
Europe as near record-low  interest rates  distort credit and
housing markets in some of the world’s richest economies.  Lawmakers in Denmark are discussing imposing a 3 percent
additional buffer on Danske Bank -- less than recommended in the
March proposal, according to a different person close to the
talks who asked not to be identified by name because the terms
of the accord aren’t yet public. All other systemically
important banks will probably be asked to build extra capital in
line with levels in the March proposal, the person said.  Lawmakers are still struggling to hammer out the final
text, the person said.  Danish talks on too-big-to-fail banks have been hampered by
lawmaker disagreement over trigger levels at which debt converts
to equity and at which management loses its freedom to decide
payouts.  Compliance Action  FDIC Says Insurance Fund’s Growth Unlikely to Alter Banks’ Rates  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said it is unlikely to
change the rates banks pay for insurance that guarantees
customer deposits even as the fund continues to stay on track to
meet deadlines for its health.  The federal backstop, funded by assessments on banks, was
at $37.9 billion by June 30, up from a deficit of $20.9 billion
at the end of 2009 as  bank failures  surged during credit crisis.
The FDIC predicted it will spend $4 billion to cover bank
shutdowns in the next five years, a projection that declined
another $1 billion since April as the industry improves,
according to a report issued yesterday updating the fund’s
health.  FDIC Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said the fund “has a long
way to go.” He said rates charged the banks probably won’t rise
as industry health improves and numbers of banks failing or at
risk of doing so continues to decline.  The fund returned to a positive balance in 2011, and the
FDIC anticipates that its income from assessments on banks will
drop from about $12.4 billion in 2012 to about $10 billion this
year as conditions improve and growth in the assessment base has
been more sluggish than expected, according to the report.  The fund still has less than its required reserve ratio of
1.15 percent of the deposits it insures, and the FDIC expects to
reach that goal by 2019 -- an extension of one year from earlier
estimates because of a “more conservative projection of future
assessment revenue.”  Assurant Cuts Florida Insurance Rates 10% in Deal With Regulator  Assurant Inc. (AIZ) , under pressure from Florida regulators,
agreed to cut rates 10 percent in the state for home insurance
that borrowers must buy when they miss payments on their initial
policies.  The new rates are expected to be effective in the first
quarter of next year, the New York-based insurer said yesterday
in a statement.  Courts  FDIC Urges Judge to Reject $500 Million Countrywide Accord  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. urged a U.S. judge to
reject a proposed $500 million settlement of  Bank of America
Corp. ’s liability for billions of dollars in securities backed
by mortgages that were later downgraded to junk.  The FDIC claims the bank accord is too small and benefits
too few investors. Its objection was made in a filing Oct. 7 in
a  Los Angeles  court.  The settlement in April was to end a class action led by
the Iowa Public Retirement System. The consolidated lawsuit
filed in 2010 sought damages of more than $351 billion
concerning downgraded Countrywide mortgage-backed securities
after the 2007 subprime collapse. The settlement requires a
judge’s approval.  The Los Angeles case is Maine State Retirement System v.
Countrywide Financial Corp., 10-cv-00302, U.S. District Court,
Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  Interviews  Algo Traders Main Flash Crash Victims, Market Maker RSJ Says  Lightning-fast market plunges like the 2010 “flash crash”
don’t hurt long-term investors and taxing algorithmic trading
will drive the business from Europe, said the founder of RSJ AS,
which trades a notional volume of $106 trillion in financial
derivatives a year.  Investors would be protected by rules against unethical
techniques and an introduction of random electronic delays to
slow microsecond transactions by high-frequency trading
companies, said Karel Janecek, the biggest shareholder in
Prague-based RSJ, the largest such trader on  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s
Liffe derivatives platform.  He made the remarks in an interview at Bloomberg offices in
Prague Oct. 7.  Regulators worldwide are seeking to improve their
understanding of how markets behave and reduce price swings
since the May 2010 plunge and recovery known as the flash crash
that wiped out about $862 billion in U.S. equity value in
minutes. They’re also working to determine whether methods used
by sophisticated traders give them an unfair advantage and if
they should crack down on high-frequency deals.  “If we take a manager of private money or long-term
investors, they don’t care about flash crashes,” Janecek said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  