-- London Savoy Hotel Sees Risk of Loan Violations
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-10-10T08:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/london-savoy-hotel-sees-risk-of-loan-violations.html
The Savoy, the five-star London
hotel once frequented by  Winston Churchill ,  Marilyn Monroe  and
 Claude Monet , would be at risk of breaching terms of bank loans
if operating results don’t improve, according to the company.  “This risk represents a material uncertainty which could
cast significant doubt as to the group’s ability to continue as
a going concern,” according to an Oct. 7 filing to Companies
House by Breezeroad Ltd., the hotel’s owner.  Breezeroad’s directors prepared projections that assume an
improvement in business and indicate the Savoy will continue to
meet its debts, according to the filing. If the financial
projections aren’t met, loans to the company, controlled by
Saudi billionaire  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal  and a  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  unit, could become repayable on demand.  The Breezeroad directors said they don’t think a covenant
breach would have a “detrimental impact” on the group’s
ability to operate, according to the filing. Costs could be cut
to avoid breaching loan terms or talks with lenders and
shareholders could be held to resolve any loan violations, the
directors said.  The hotel had a pretax loss of 53.5 million pounds ($85
million) in 2012, an 8 percent increase from a year earlier,
according to the filing to  Companies House  describing last
year’s results. Revenue rose about 3.5 percent to 58.5 million
pounds last year.  Prince Alwaleed  Kingdom Holding, an  investment company  Alwaleed controls,
and the Lloyds unit, each own half of the Savoy, according to a
statement in April, when the hotel’s debt was refinanced. At
that time, the London hotel was valued at more than 600 million
pounds.  “Kingdom is supporting this asset and has a plan with
Lloyds” for the hotel, Charles Henry, a spokesman for the
Riyadh-based company, said by telephone.  Lloyds spokesman Emile Abu-Shakra said the bank remains
“fully supportive of the management and this iconic hotel. “We
are confident that the business will continue to trade
profitably and that it will be able to meet all creditor
payments as they fall due,” he said by e-mail.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale have
loaned 200 million pounds to a Breezeroad affiliate at a rate of
380 basis points, or 3.8 percent, to 400 basis points more than
the London interbank offered rate, according to the filing.  Kingdom Loans  Lloyds and Kingdom Holding each loaned the group 50.5
million pounds at a 15 percent internal rate of return as part
of the refinancing, the filing said. The co-owners also provided
loans at a lower rate.  Representatives of the Savoy declined to comment.  The Savoy, located steps away from the north bank of the
 River Thames  on The Strand, first opened in 1889. It reopened in
October 2010 after a 230 million-pound renovation that took
about 30 months. The hotel typically charges at least 330 pounds
a night for a basic room, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  