-- Longest-Serving Republican in Congress Says He’ll Retire
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-10-09T20:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/longest-serving-republican-in-congress-says-he-ll-retire.html
 Representative C.W. “Bill” Young
of  Florida , the longest-serving Republican in Congress, said he
won’t be running for a 23rd term in the U.S. House.  Young, 82, will end his congressional career after his
current two-year term ends in January 2015, said spokesman Harry Glenn.  The decision was first reported by the Tampa Bay Times.  “It’s my time” to leave Congress, Young said in  an
interview  with the Times from Walter Reed National Military
Medical Center, where he’s recovering from a back injury.  “I don’t know that I would pick out one thing. It’s a lot
of things. My family, my job, my rehabilitation from my back,”
he said.  Partisan gridlock also was a factor, Young told the
newspaper. “I’m a little disappointed,” he said. “It seems
there’s too much politics. It’s a different Congress.”  First elected in 1970, he’s been an advocate for increased
 government spending  on medical care, from boosting immunization
rates to increasing research on Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s
diseases. In 1986, he helped create a national registry for
bone-marrow donors -- a program now named for him.  He was chairman of the Appropriations Committee from
1999-2005, and never hesitated to point out that was the last
time the government ran a surplus.  “Bill Young is the dean of the Florida Congressional
delegation, a tireless voice for our men and women in uniform
and America’s national security, and a dear friend,” House
Speaker  John Boehner  said in a statement. “Since 1970, he has
served with distinction in the People’s House - and both the
House and the people are better for it.”  He represents a district that includes Clearwater and most
of  St. Petersburg , Florida.  Voters there re-elected Young while backing President
 Barack Obama  in 2012 and 2008, and while choosing Democrat  Bill
Nelson  for senator in 2012. That history of split loyalty makes
it likely Democrats will target the district in 2014 as part of
a push to wrest 17 more seats and gain a majority of the 435-member House.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  