-- Montenegro's Largest Plant KAP Declared Bankrupt by Court
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-10-09T14:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/montenegro-s-largest-plant-kap-declared-bankrupt-by-court.html
Kombinat Aluminijuma Podgorica AD,
Montenegro’s biggest industrial manufacturer, was declared
bankrupt after no one submitted a plan to restructure the
smelter before a court-imposed deadline today.  The unprofitable company, once controlled by Oleg Deripaska’s En+ Group, may be offered for sale to cover at least
some of KAP’s 459 million euros ($620 million) in liabilities,
said court-appointed manager Veselin Perisic.  “We’ll try to keep up production as long as possible to
make KAP as attractive as possible to potential buyers,”
Perisic said in a phone interview in Podgorica today.  Selling KAP as a whole rather than some of its assets would
be the best option, “if creditors agree,” court President
Dragan Rakocevic said, according to a report by broadcaster RTCG
today. An invitation to bidders may be made in about 20 days,
according to the report.  The government borrowed 42.5 million euros in August to
repay a state-backed loan to KAP, which employs 1,200 of
Montenegro’s 620,000 people. In July, Prime Milo Djukanovic
suggested a combination of job cuts and subsidies may keep KAP
afloat.  The  International Monetary Fund  advised in May against the
government providing budgetary support for KAP, saying doing so
had “failed to put it on a sustainable footing and contributed
to misallocation of scarce resources.” Steps should be taken
toward KAP’s “orderly liquidation,” it said.  Claims against KAP include 148.4 million euros owed to
Montenegro’s  Finance Ministry , 43.4 million euros to En+ Group,
50 million euros to En+ Groups’s  Central European Aluminum
Company , 44.76 million euros to Elektroprivreda Crne Gore AD,
and 25.86 million euros to  VTB Bank OJSC (VTBR) , according to a  list  on
KAP’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  