-- Biggest Danish Banks Need $15.4 Billion Buffer to Meet Rules
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-10-10T12:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/too-big-to-fail-banks-in-denmark-win-concessions-on-buffer-goals.html
Denmark ’s biggest banks need to hold
85 billion kroner ($15.4 billion) in additional capital to
comply with European requirements and to meet national rules for
systemically important lenders.  The number, which doesn’t take into account how much banks
have already raised, is an estimate provided by the Business
Ministry in Copenhagen, Social Democrat lawmaker and business
committee spokesman Benny Engelbrecht said today. Denmark’s too-big-to-fail banks won’t be subject to the nation’s bail-in
package, according to an agreement struck by lawmakers today.  “The purpose of the deal is to avoid future crises,”
Business Minister Henrik Sass Larsen told reporters. “Banks
will now be able to handle what happened in 2008 by
themselves.”  Under today’s accord, Denmark’s  biggest banks  will need to
hold as much as 3 percent additional capital based on their 2012
risk-weighted assets, compared with a March proposal put forward
by a government-appointed committee of 3.5 percent. That means
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s biggest lender, will be required to
hold a smaller buffer than recommended in March.  No Objections  “This deal won’t cause any objections from Danish
lenders,” Christian Hede, an analyst at  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , said by
phone. “The agreement will underpin the status quo.”  Though the standards agreed on are more lenient than those
initially proposed, Denmark will be one of the first European
Union nations to set requirements for its biggest banks, joining
 Sweden  in creating a regulatory framework before EU rules become
binding. Sweden’s four biggest banks must hold at least 12
percent core Tier 1 capital of risk-weighted assets by 2015. The
Danish standards, which also allow banks to use hybrid capital,
are as high as 13.5 percent. The EU has yet to enforce its rules
for systemically important banks.  “Generally the requirements for Danish SIFIs have been
watered down compared to the SIFI report from March,” Danske
Bank analysts Henrik Arnt and Thomas Hovard said in a note.
“Instead, the agreement clearly aims to ensure that Danish
SIFIs are treated the same as their European peers once a common
European resolution mechanism has been agreed upon and
implemented.”  National Comparison  “We’re hearing that the nations we compare ourselves with
will set capital levels on par with us or above,” Engelbrecht
said in an interview. “It matters who we compare ourselves with
as Denmark needs to be part of this group of the highest-rated
nations.”  Banks identified as too big to fail in Denmark will have 18
months to start complying with the rules after their designation
is official. The complete set of standards on capital
requirements will be phased in over a five-year period. The
accord sets a June 30 deadline for the Financial Supervisory
Authority to name systemically important banks based on specific
criteria. The FSA’s decisions will in the future be overseen by
a new supervisory board, according to today’s agreement.  Trigger levels determining when a bank’s management loses
its freedom to make  payouts  won’t exceed European
recommendations. The accord didn’t specify trigger levels for
converting hybrid debt to equity.  Systemic Relevance  Capital levels for the biggest banks will be set according
to a lender’s systemic relevance and by then plugging that
measure into a quantitative model to derive a buffer size. Both
the measurement of systemic relevance and the Sifi scale would
be set down in law.  Capital standards for too-big-to-fail banks will comprise
an 8 percent minimum requirement of risk-weighted assets, a
capital conservation buffer of 2.5 percent and an individual
requirement for each systemically important bank, under the
accord. That means Denmark’s seven Sifis would hold 11.5 percent
to 13.5 percent of capital from 2019.  Individual solvency requirements made by the FSA would come
on top of the Sifi buffer under the measure. A counter-cyclical
buffer would be placed on top of the capital pillar, according
to the accord.  Lawmakers agreed that the criteria show that Danske Bank,
Nykredit Realkredit A/S, Jyske Bank A/S,  Sydbank A/S (SYDB) ,  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) ’s Danish unit, BRFkredit A/S and DLR Kredit A/S are
systemically important to Denmark’s $320 billion economy.  Danske Capital  Danske may have its capital requirement adjusted in 2017,
because no Danish lender can have higher Sifi buffers than
equivalent banks in an eight-nation reference group, lawmakers
agreed. The nations in the reference group are the U.K.,  Norway ,
Sweden,  Germany ,  France ,  Switzerland , the Netherlands and
 Austria .  Denmark will adopt a counter-cyclical buffer that’s between
zero and 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets and the Business
Ministry will advise the industry on when it needs to apply the
additional capital, the accord showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  