-- Mortgage REITs Pose Dangers Requiring More Oversight, IMF Says
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-10-09T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/mortgage-reits-pose-dangers-requiring-more-oversight-imf-says.html
Regulators should boost oversight of
the largest  real-estate investment trusts  that use borrowed
money to invest in mortgage-backed securities because rising
interest rates may push the firms into asset sales that
destabilize markets, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  A version of that scenario occurred during the rise in
rates that began in May, the IMF said. Repercussions might roil
the REITs’ lenders, disrupt the $5.3 trillion market in which
they invest and damage the broader  U.S. economy , according to
its Global Financial Stability Report released today.  Further rate  rises  might “lead to a more destabilizing
unwinding of positions,” with a surge of 0.5 percentage point
or more reducing the portfolio values at the biggest mortgage
REITs “enough to generate at least temporary dislocations in
the MBS market,” the Washington-based group said.  The IMF joins Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  and the
U.S. Financial Stability Oversight Council in saying this year
that the companies led by  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY)  and
 American Capital Agency (AGNC)  Corp. pose risks to markets. The FSOC,
the board of regulators established after the 2008 financial
crisis, failed to label any of the firms “systemically
important” and in need of greater oversight, after mentioning
the mortgage REIT industry in its annual report in April.  Annaly, based in New York, had $102.4 billion of assets on
June 30 and $13.3 billion of shareholder equity, while Bethesda,
Maryland-based American Capital Agency had $98.7 billion of
assets and $10.3 billion of equity, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Repo Financing  With the amount of repurchase agreement, or repo, financing
used by the two largest mortgage REITS comparable to that of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before its 2008 collapse that
roiled the global economy, “at the very least the mREITs point
to a microcosm of fragilities in the shadow banking system that
deserve closer monitoring,” the IMF said today.  The reliance by the industry on short-term loans to invest
in government-backed mortgage securities with strategies
involving interrelated risks mean their sales as prices decline
might create a “fire sale ‘risk spiral,’” according to the
report.  Sales may reduce the value of holdings among other
investors such as banks and potentially cause declines big
enough to “induce repo lenders to pull back funding or raise
rates more broadly (or both), with negative consequences for
other leveraged short-term borrowers,” the IMF said.  ‘Sizable Disruptions’  “Sizable disruptions in secondary mortgage markets against
a backdrop of rising mortgage rates could also have
macroeconomic implications, jeopardizing the still-fragile
housing recovery,” according to the report.  Increased oversight of mortgage REITs and firms involved in
the repo market that they turn to for financing “would help
reduce the risk of a cascading failure of counterparties.” A
review of repo “haircuts,” or down payments, would be
“desirable,” along with greater disclosure, the IMF said.  Authorities also “could consider changing the exemption
status for certain” mortgage REITs, or label the largest as
systemically important and in need of more oversight, the group
said. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, after asking
in 2011 for comments on the companies’ exemption from the
Investment Company Act that allows them to use unlimited
leverage, didn’t announce any adjustments to the rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  