-- Tougher EU Airline-Pilot Flight Law Backed by Bloc’s Parliament
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-10-09T10:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/tougher-eu-airline-pilot-flight-law-backed-by-bloc-s-parliament.html
The European Parliament approved
plans for tougher regulation of airline pilots’ flying hours
including shorter nighttime duty, clearing the way for the new
safety rules to enter into force in about two years.  The European Union assembly today in Strasbourg,  France ,
threw out a veto recommendation spearheaded by left-of-center
members who had called for even stricter limits to guard against
fatigue. The EU’s national governments approved the new
standards in July.  The draft EU law will reduce airline crews’ working hours
at night to a maximum of 11 hours from the current ceiling of 11
hours and 45 minutes. The existing EU daytime flight-time limit
of 13 hours, with an extra hour possible twice a week, will be
unchanged.  At present, the U.K., with a nighttime ceiling of 11 hours
and 15 minutes, is the only member state with a limit below the
current EU maximum, according to the European Commission, the
28-nation bloc’s regulatory arm that proposed the legislation.  The new law will also introduce EU-wide limits on how much
time crews could be on standby and then on flight duty. The
combination of standby periods at airports and flight duty face
a single 16-hour cap. Standby arrangements at home will be
limited to 16 hours, with all the time spent on standby above
six hours being counted as flight duty.  In addition, the draft rules will extend the required rest
periods for crews after duty from a minimum of 10 hours in any
case to at least 14 hours for flights that cross more than three
time zones.  Furthermore, time off after a long roundtrip could rise to
as many as five days from two days. This will depend on how long
crew members stay in the overseas city before returning. The
longer the stay before the return, the more days off crew
members will receive after getting home because the risk of jet
lag would be higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  