-- House Republican Leaders Said to Weigh Short-Term Debt Measure
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-10-09T20:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/house-republican-leaders-said-to-weigh-short-term-debt-measure.html
House Republican and Senate
Democratic leaders are open to a short-term increase in the debt
limit, said congressional aides of both parties who spoke on
condition of anonymity to discuss strategy. The steps mark the
first movement toward averting a U.S. default.  Republicans haven’t decided how long an extension they
would support or whether it would include policy conditions and
how to advance it through the House, a House Republican aide
said.  Senate Democratic leaders would be open to a short-term
increase in the U.S. debt ceiling, a Senate Democratic aide said
today on condition of anonymity to discuss private talks.
Democrats would insist that any proposal wouldn’t impose budget
conditions.  If Republicans move toward a vote, they’re choosing an
option President  Barack Obama  opened yesterday, when he said he
would accept a short-term  debt limit  increase and then enter
broader fiscal negotiations with Republicans.  The potential fight would be over Obama’s insistence that
he wouldn’t agree to tie policy conditions to raising the debt
limit. Republicans have been talking about attaching a long list
of party priorities, such as cuts in entitlement programs,
changes to the 2010 health care law and approval of  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline, to a debt-ceiling increase.  If the U.S. doesn’t raise the debt limit by Oct. 17, the
country’s borrowing authority will lapse. The government will
have $30 billion plus income revenues to pay its bills and would
miss scheduled payments between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according
to the  Congressional Budget Office .  The U.S. government has been in a partial shutdown since
Oct. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  