-- HP CEO Whitman Sees Stabilizing Sales and Cash for Investors
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-10-09T20:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/hp-ceo-whitman-sees-stabilizing-sales-and-cash-for-shareholders.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  expects to return
more cash to shareholders and revenue to stabilize after a two-year drop, Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  said today. The
stock jumped 8.9 percent.  “I’ve got real confidence that we’re headed in the right
direction and we will turn this thing around,” Whitman said at
a  meeting  with analysts in  San Jose ,  California .  As Whitman enters her third year at the helm, she’s
contending with declining sales from slack demand for personal
computers and stepped up competition in the business-technology
market. While analysts are projecting a 3 percent drop in 2014
sales to $107.6 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, Whitman said she expects “revenue to stabilize.”  The company said in a slide presentation that the year-over-year revenue drop “moderates” after fiscal 2013. Profit
excluding some items next year will be $3.55 a share to $3.75 a
share, compared with the average analyst estimate of $3.61.  Hewlett-Packard  climbed  the most since May 23, closing at
$22.60. The stock has jumped 59 percent this year after reaching
its lowest in a decade in November.  “Expectations were low,”  Brian Marshall , an analyst at
ISI Group, wrote in an e-mail. The stock pop is “just a short-lived bounce in our view.” Marshall has the equivalent of a
hold rating on the shares.  Whitman, 57, is trying to move past a tumultuous period
during which the company ousted her two predecessors and then
took an $8.8 billion writedown on its  acquisition  of software
maker Autonomy Corp.  Generating Cash  Maynard Um, an analyst with  Wells Fargo Securities LLC ,
said in an Oct. 7 note to clients that Hewlett-Packard is
generating cash, remains “very focused on improving its balance
sheet” and has improved relationships with customers and
resellers during Whitman’s tenure. He has the equivalent of a
buy rating on the shares.  The company said today that at least 50 percent of its free
 cash flow  will be returned to shareholders via dividends and
buybacks in 2014. Hewlett-Packard said in August that it expects
free cash flow to approach $8 billion for fiscal 2013.  For the past two quarters, Hewlett-Packard has paid a
dividend of 15 cents a share, amounting to a 2.6 percent
indicated yield. That’s higher than the average of 1.7 percent
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index.  Scrapped Forecast  Hewlett-Packard is losing out to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung
Electronics Co. as consumers and businesses shift to smartphones
and tablets. In the market for servers, storage and networking
equipment, Whitman has cited a “weak enterprise spending
environment,” and in August she scrapped a prediction that
Hewlett-Packard would return to growth in 2014 after two years
of declines.  Sales for the fiscal year ending Oct. 31 are expected to
drop 7.8 percent to $111 billion, according to the average of
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. PC shipments worldwide
dropped 8.6 percent to 80.3 million in the third quarter,
researcher Gartner Inc. reported today.  Whitman said that Hewlett-Packard faces changes in the
competitive environment as longtime partners  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
Microsoft Corp. become challengers. Hewlett-Packard’s PC
business has relied on Microsoft’s Windows operating systems and
Intel’s chips.  Microsoft is going after consumers directly with the
Surface tablet computer, while Intel is helping  Google Inc., (GOOG) 
Facebook Inc. and others build servers, removing the need for
Hewlett-Packard hardware. Hewlett Packard, meanwhile, is using
chips and operating systems from other suppliers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  