-- Pakistan Mulls Share Sales by 15 Firms to Meet IMF Demands
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-10-09T11:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/pakistan-mulls-share-sales-by-15-firms-to-meet-imf-demands-1-.html
Pakistan plans to shortlist as many
as 15 state-run companies for stake sales as Prime Minister
 Nawaz Sharif  seeks to trim losses and raise cash to meet terms
of a $6.6 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund .  The government may sell as much as 10 percent of its stakes
in  National Bank of Pakistan , Habib Bank Ltd., United Bank Ltd.,
Oil & Gas Development Corp., and Pakistan Petroleum Ltd. within
the next 12 months, Privatization Minister Khurram Dastgir Khan
said in an interview. It also seeks to sell stakes in national
carrier Pakistan International Airlines Corp. and Pakistan Steel
Mills Corp. to strategic investors, he said.  “We want to do these privatizations very lawfully and
transparently,” Khan said in Islamabad yesterday. “That will
attract foreign investors, and they would realize that  Pakistan 
is not just energy crisis and extremism. There are parts of the
economy which are still humming.”  Sharif, who took power in June, last month won IMF support
for his efforts to revive an economy crippled by chronic energy
shortages and a Taliban insurgency. His government is pushing
forward with a delayed plan to privatize more than 60 public
sector enterprises, which Khan said are costing tax payers
nearly $5.5 billion per year in subsidies and losses.  ‘Massive Drain’  “It’s a massive drain on the exchequer,” he said. “It’s
severely impairing our ability to invest in health and
education.”  Pakistan’s budget  deficit  touched a two-decade high of 8.8
percent in the fiscal year ended June 30. The government now
spends 20 percent of its 3.985 trillion rupees ($38 billion)
 federal budget  on health and education, compared with 16 percent
on its military.  “They look serious this time,” Sayem Ali, an economist at
Standard Chartered Plc, said in a phone interview from Karachi.
“Share sales through the stock market should be the easiest
thing to do. There is enough demand for these blue-chip
companies.”  At the same time, overhauling more bloated businesses will
require tough political decisions, Ali said.  About 350,000 workers are employed in state-owned
companies, Khan said. “We will try to protect the interests of
employees,” he said, adding that the airline and steel
companies are “heavily loaded” with workers.  Financial Advisers  The companies Khan named for privatization account for
about a third of the Karachi Stock Exchange Index’s  market
value , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Khan did not
specify the other companies, saying the list is still being
completed and would be submitted to a cabinet committee later
this month.  The government will seek bids in the next two months for
financial advisers who will recommend how to structure the
deals, Khan said.  For Pakistan International Airlines, authorities are
considering a plan that would split it into international and
domestic units, Khan said. Another option is to keep those
operations under one roof while spinning out departments such as
hotel management into separate companies, he said. The airline
needs 3 billion rupees a month to run its operations, he said.  “It’s a tough sale due to its accumulated losses,” Khan
said. “But it has certain crown jewels. It has landing rights
at all the major airports. If you go buying them today, you have
to pay millions of dollars. The crisis is that we don’t have
enough aircraft to service those destinations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  