-- Panasonic Said to Halt Plasma TV Output This Fiscal Year
-- B y   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-10-09T07:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/panasonic-said-to-halt-plasma-tv-panel-output-this-fiscal-year.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  will halt production
of plasma TV panels this fiscal year, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the situation.  Panasonic is considering selling part of its Amagasaki
factory, near Osaka,  Japan , said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information hasn’t been released
publicly. The Amagasaki factory is the only Panasonic plant
making the devices, and a sale before March could account for a
40 billion-yen ($412 million) writedown, said the person.  President Kazuhiro Tsuga in March said the company would
keep producing plasma even as the technology loses favor to
liquid-crystal displays. In June the Osaka-based maker of Viera
sets said it was considering options for plasma after its TV and
panel business accumulated 300 billion yen of operating losses
in the two years ending March 2013.  “It is a milestone for Panasonic,” said Koki Shiraishi,
an analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities based in  Tokyo . “The sale
of the plant will generate some cash inflow and this will help
Panasonic reduce the cost of halting the operation.”  Nikkei news agency earlier reported Panasonic planned to
halt production of plasma TV panels. The company issued a
statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange saying it isn’t the source
of the report. Megumi Kitagawa, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for
Panasonic, declined to comment.  Restructuring  Shares of Panasonic rose 1.6 percent to 931 yen at the
close of trade in Tokyo. The shares have gained 78 percent this
year.  Panasonic ranked No. 4 globally in its share of revenue
from flat-panel TVs in the second quarter of this year,
researcher NPD DisplaySearch said Sept. 3. Japanese competitor
 Sony Corp. (6758)  ranks No. 3.  Last month KKR & Co. agreed to buy Panasonic’s health-care
unit for about 165 billion yen. Panasonic is selling control of
the unit as it focuses on a 250 billion-yen plan to reverse
losses at its electronics business in the next two years.  Panasonic posted first-quarter profit after changes in
pension accounting and cost cuts. The company is headed for its
first annual profit in three years as PresidentTsuga
restructures to end losses in TVs, semiconductors and mobile
phones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  