-- Parsons Fashion School Home to Be Sold to El-Gamal Group
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-10-09T20:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/parsons-fashion-school-home-to-be-sold-to-el-gamal-group.html
     Oct. 9 (Bloomberg) --A group including New York property
investor Sharif El-Gamal agreed to buy the  Manhattan  building
that houses the fashion program at the Parsons art and design
school, home to television’s “Project Runway.”  El-Gamal’s Soho Properties LLC, developer of the
controversial Islamic center north of lower Manhattan’s World
Trade Center site, joined with Norman Sturner’s Murray Hill
Properties in a deal to buy 560 Seventh Ave., the company said
in an e-mailed statement. Parsons, part of the New School, said
earlier this year that it would sell the building and move the
fashion program to its Greenwich Village campus.  The property, located just south of Times Square at West
40th Street, will most likely be redeveloped as “a vibrant
blend of hotel and  retail spaces ,” said Hank Sheinkopf, a Soho
Properties spokesman. Prices for such buildings in the area have
surged since the end of the last recession as real estate
investors look to profit from the tourist destination.  “This transaction confirms the fact that Times Square
proper is expanding both to the south and west,” said Robert Knakal, chairman of Massey Knakal Realty Services, which
brokered the sale on behalf of the New School. The deal “is
indicative of a rapidly appreciating land market in Manhattan’s
most prime locations.”  Soho and  Murray Hill  paid about $61 million for the
property, said two people with knowledge of the transaction, who
asked not to be identified because the details are private.  Rising Values  Retail buildings in the Times Square area fetch about
$1,600 a square foot, compared with $677 in 2009, according to
Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based real estate
research firm. Hotels are valued at about $700,000 a room, well
above their 2006 peak of $546,000, Ben Carlos Thypin, Real
Capital’s director of market analysis, said in an e-mail.  With potential zoning bonuses, the Parsons site can support
a 130,000-square-foot (12,000-square-meter) building, Knakal
said.  The area surrounding Times Square, ranked in 2011 as the
world’s most visited tourist attraction by Travel & Leisure
Magazine, commands retail rents that are higher than any
submarket in Manhattan except for the 10 blocks south of  Central
Park  along Fifth Avenue, according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc.
Ground-floor asking rents averaged $2,230 in the third quarter,
11 percent more than a year earlier.  LED Sign  The Parsons fashion building is about half a mile south of
701 Seventh Ave., where developers including Steven Witkoff and
Michael Ashner are building a 465-room hotel and 85,000-square-foot retail complex, which will include a 24,000-square-foot
light-emitting diode sign that would be among the biggest in
Times Square.  Parsons is expanding its downtown campus with a new
University Center, at Fifth Avenue and West 14th Street. The
350,000-square-foot complex, designed by architectural firm
Skidmore Owings & Merrill, is scheduled to open in January,
according to a school statement from February.  Deborah Kirschner, a New School spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the Times Square building’s sale.  “Project Runway,” the fashion-design competition show
that’s hosted by model  Heidi Klum , films at the building. The
school negotiates on a season-by-season basis with Project
Runway’s producers on their space needs, and the next season’s
filming schedule isn’t yet determined, Kirschner said.  Tim Gunn, who stars as a mentor for the show’s competing
designers, was the Parsons chairman of fashion design when
“Project Runway” started in 2004. A phone message left with a
receptionist at Van Nuys, California-based Bunim-Murray
Productions, the show’s producer, wasn’t returned.  The building also includes a local synagogue, Garment
Center Congregation, which has a long-term lease on its space.
The developers intend to refurbish the space for the
congregation, Soho’s Sheinkopf said in the statement.  “Sharif believes this project can be a model for
developments that embrace both cultural and commercial purposes,
which ultimately will lead to more vibrant and diverse
communities,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  