-- PBF Delaware City Said to Delay Sulfur Work to 2014
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-10-09T19:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/pbf-delaware-city-plant-said-to-delay-sulfur-turnaround-to-2014.html
(Corrects spelling of Parsippany in penultimate
paragraph.)  PBF Energy Inc. (PBF)  delayed a sulfur unit
turnaround at the  Delaware City, Delaware, refinery  until next
spring, two people familiar with operations said.  The refinery, which was initially expected to do the work
as part of maintenance this month, will halt to replace an
exchanger on the sulfur unit, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the information isn’t public. Work on a
fluid catalytic cracker is planned for the fall of 2014, one of
the people said.  The plant’s current turnaround, which began early this
month and is expected to last about 40 days, includes a coker,
crude unit and hydrocracker, according to the people. Some
maintenance is also being conducted on a hydrogen plant and
desulfurizer, they said.  Cokers convert heavy refinery streams, such as vacuum
bottoms, into light products such as naphtha and heating oil.
Hydrocrackers refine heavy feedstocks into lighter fuels such as
high-octane gasoline or fuel oil, while FCCs upgrade vacuum
gasoil into lighter petroleum products including gasoline and
jet fuel.  Michael Karlovich, a PBF spokesman based in Parsippany,  New
Jersey , declined to comment.  The  Delaware  City refinery can process 182,200 barrels a
day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The site runs
heavy high-sulfur crudes and recently completed a project that
boosted its ability to receive  Bakken crude  by rail to about
160,000 barrels a day, according to the company. It receives an
additional 30,000 barrels a day by barge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  