-- PC Shipments Fall 8.6 Percent Amid Tepid Back-to-School Demand
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-10-10T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/pc-shipments-fall-8-6-percent-amid-tepid-back-to-school-demand.html
Worldwide personal-computer
shipments fell in the third quarter, reaching their lowest level
for the period since 2008, amid lackluster demand from students
returning to school, market researcher  Gartner Inc. (IT)  said.  In the sixth consecutive quarterly decline, global unit
sales fell 8.6 percent to 80.3 million, Gartner said yesterday
in a statement. Growth in the U.S., where shipments climbed 3.5
percent, helped make up for weak volume in other regions, the
 Stamford , Connecticut-based firm said.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  maintained its No. 1 spot in the
worldwide market, followed by Hewlett-Packard Co., which was the
top seller in the U.S. PC makers haven’t rolled out new products
capable of winning back consumers who have been migrating to
cheaper tablets to connect to the Internet, Gartner said.
Consumer demand typically rises in the third quarter, boosted by
back-to-school purchases.  “Consumers’ shift from PCs to tablets for daily content
consumption continued to decrease the installed base of PCs both
in mature as well as in  emerging markets ,” Mikako Kitagawa, an
analyst at Gartner, said in the statement. “A greater
availability of inexpensive Android tablets attracted first-time
consumers in emerging markets, and as supplementary devices in
mature markets.”  Replacement Delay  Researcher IDC, which also released its third-quarter PC
rankings yesterday, said the global market shrank 7.6 percent to
81.6 million units, compared with its earlier prediction for a
9.5 percent contraction. Business purchases and a boost from a
coming update to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 8 operating system
accounted for the smaller-than-projected decline, IDC said in a
 statement .  “The third quarter was pretty close to forecast, which
unfortunately doesn’t reflect much improvement in the PC market,
or potential for near-term growth,” Loren Loverde, an analyst
at Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC, said in the statement.
“The third-quarter results suggest that there’s still a high
probability that we will see another decline in worldwide
shipments in 2014.” Shipments fell in 2012, and IDC forecasts a
9.7 drop in unit sales this year.  Beijing-based Lenovo held a 17.6 percent market share
worldwide, helped by a 2.8 percent increase in shipments,
Gartner said. Hewlett-Packard retained its No. 2 spot after a
1.5 percent gain in unit sales, giving it a 17.1 percent share.
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  came in third with a 11.6 percent slice of the market,
and a 1 percent jump in third-quarter shipments. Taiwan’s  Acer
Inc. (2353)  and  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  both posted shipment declines of
more than 20 percent, Gartner said.  While sales in the U.S. may have “passed the worst
declining stage,” according to Gartner’s Kitagawa, other
regions posted double-digit percentage drops. Asia-Pacific
shipments fell 11.2 percent, while Europe,  Middle East  and
Africa slid 13.7 percent, Gartner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  