-- Persimmon Gains After Goldman Predicts 70% Jump: London Mover
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-10-09T16:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/persimmon-gains-after-goldman-predicts-70-jump-london-mover.html
Persimmon Plc (PSN)  rose the most in almost
two months after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the stock may
increase by 70 percent within six months as it benefits from a
housing recovery outside  London .  The U.K.’s largest homebuilder by market value  climbed  5
percent to 1,131 pence in London trading, the biggest increase
since Aug. 16. Goldman raised its price estimate for the stock
by 2 percent to 1,854 pence, it said in a note today. Goldman
based the estimate on a starting price of 1,089 pence.  “Persimmon’s exposure outside of London could ultimately
see the most recovery in terms of housing transactions,”
analysts including Eshan Toorabally wrote in the report. “The
circa 10 percent fall in the share price over the last three
months offers an attractive opportunity to invest in a company
which we expect to see significant earnings growth over the next
three years.”  Though investors are increasingly betting that the Bank of
England may increase rates earlier than previously expected,
such hikes haven’t historically led to “significant weakness in
housing fundamentals” or stock price performance for home
building-related equities, Goldman said.  Of 17  analysts  who follow Persimmon and share their ratings
with Bloomberg, eight recommend buying the stock, three suggest
selling and six advise holding. The average 12-month price
target is 1,247 pence, based on 10 estimates, implying a
potential gain of 11.3 percent.  Goldman added  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  to its “conviction buy
list” today. The High Wycombe, England-based homebuilder’s
share price rose 5.2 percent to 103.8 pence today. Goldman also
upgraded  Bovis Homes Group Plc (BVS)  and  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  to
buy from neutral.  Persimmon has climbed 51 percent this year, the fourth-best
performance among stocks in the Bloomberg U.K. Homebuilders
Index, which has added 40 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  