-- Petrobras's Oil Declines Lure Gradin Family Offshore
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-10-09T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/petrobras-s-oil-declines-lure-gradin-family-offshore.html
The Brazilian billionaire Gradin
family is spending $500 million on three offshore vessels to
help  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3) , the biggest oil producer in deep
waters, reverse declining output at its biggest production zone.  GranEnergia, owned by the Gradin family through its
GranInvestimentos holding company, already has a four-year
contract with state-controlled Petrobras to refurbish and repair
aging platforms in the Campos Basin that supplies 80 percent of
 Brazil ’s oil, President Miguel Gradin said in an interview in
Rio de Janeiro. The company is negotiating with banks to finance
80 percent of the $150 million support vessel, he said.  The Rio de Janeiro-based logistics and oil services company
has ordered an additional two vessels that it may deploy in
Brazil, the  Gulf of Mexico  or West Africa as it looks to compete
with established suppliers including  Prosafe SE (PRS)  and Floatel
International Ltd. GranEnergia may turn to bond markets to
finance the second vessel, Gradin said. It will only consider
seeking equity partners after 2015, he said.  GranEnergia has won work with Rio-based Petrobras at a time
when the world’s most indebted major  oil company  is looking for
ways to improve efficiency and curb cost growth. The cheapest
way for Petrobras to increase output fast is to improve
extraction at areas where it has been pumping for years, Gradin
said. Last year, Petrobras started a $5.6 billion program to
improve efficiency at its Campos Basin operations where output
has dropped 7 percent in the past two years.  “Last year we tried to find out the needs of the client,”
Gradin said at his offices in Rio. “The opportunities are to
help them with production efficiency at existing fields.”  Petrobras didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking
comment on the contract with GranEnergia.  35 Platforms  Petrobras’s program at Campos includes 35 “aging”
platforms GranEnergia will help service with a support vessel
that will begin operating in April, Gradin said. GranEnergia won
the work as some of Petrobras’s traditional suppliers including
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and Baker Hughes Inc. are reducing staff in
Brazil as the producer shifts to repairing old wells from
drilling new ones.  “The future is going to be the next phase, not only
developing but taking care of old assets,” Gradin said. “We
have a lot to do.”  The Gradin family, headed by Miguel’s father Victor, is
worth at least $1 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index, based on its 20.6 percent stake in Odebrecht
SA. The company, Brazil’s biggest construction firm, had gross
revenues of 84.4 billion reais in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  