-- Peugeot Examining Partnerships to Expand Outside Europe
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-10-09T09:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/peugeot-examining-partnerships-to-expand-outside-europe.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, is considering new cooperation agreements to
raise cash for investments and expand outside its home
continent, where demand is at a 20-year low.  The French automaker “is examining new industrial and
commercial development projects with different partners,
including the financial implications that would accompany
them,” Jean-Baptiste Thomas, a Peugeot spokesman, said today.
“None of these projects has reached maturity at this stage.”  Dongfeng Motor Corp. (489)  plans to buy a 30 percent stake in
Peugeot for 10 billion  yuan  ($1.63 billion),  China  Business News
reported yesterday, citing an unidentified official from the
Chinese company. The two automakers said last month that they
are talking about deepening their partnership.  An investment from Dongfeng would provide Peugeot with
needed cash to shore up its finances and also help in the French
automaker’s efforts to expand outside  Europe , where the auto
market is set to sink for a sixth straight year. Peugeot and
Dongfeng already operate three assembly plants together in
China, the world’s largest auto market.  Peugeot  climbed  as much as 34 cents, or 2.7 percent, to
12.65 euros and was up 0.7 percent as of 10:59 a.m. in Paris
trading. The stock has more than doubled this year, valuing the
manufacturer at 4.4 billion euros ($5.95 billion).  Dongfeng said last month that the company is doing
“preliminary research” on a Peugeot investment. Philippe Varin, the French automaker’s chief executive officer, said in
September that he was examining all options to deepen the
Dongfeng partnership, with a focus first on industrial
cooperation before any financial links.  Cutting Jobs  Peugeot, which reported a first-half operating loss in its
automotive unit of 510 million euros, is cutting 11,200 French
jobs and closing a factory outside Paris to reduce spending.
Varin has pledged to reduce the manufacturer’s cash-consumption
rate by 50 percent in 2013 after burning through 3 billion euros
last year.  Peugeot is negotiating with unions to reduce overtime pay
and freeze salaries, in exchange for increased French production
and investments over the next three years, to lower labor costs.
Any share sale to an outside investor is contingent on the
success of those talks, Christian Lafaye, head of the FO union
at Peugeot, said today by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  