-- Pimco Doubles Holdings of Non-U.S. Debt in Flagship Fund
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-10-09T23:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/pimco-doubles-holdings-of-non-u-s-debt-in-flagship-fund.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  doubled the share of non-U.S. developed market
securities while keeping holdings of Treasuries and other U.S.
government-related debt unchanged in his flagship fund in
September as the  Federal Reserve  maintained bond buying.  The proportion of U.S. government and related debt in the
$250 billion Total Return Fund remained at 35 percent, data on
Pimco’s  website  show. Developed-market paper rose to 4 percent
in September from 2 percent in August. The  Newport Beach ,
California-based company doesn’t comment directly on monthly
changes in holdings or specific types of securities within a
market sector.  Gross has recommended investors purchase shorter-term
Treasuries as the Fed weighs tapering its bond buying under the
quantitative-easing stimulus strategy and the market
underestimates how long it will then take the central bank to
begin raising interest rates. He also said last week the
political “theatrics” in  Washington  over the U.S. debt ceiling
will be resolved without a default.  “What we’ve done is to buy and hold Treasuries, but at the
front end of the curve,” Gross said in a Bloomberg Television
interview on Oct. 1. “Buy three-, four-, or five-year
Treasuries that incorporate that mispricing in terms of Fed
policy rates going forward. Don’t buy 30s, don’t buy 10s,
because those are inflation-sensitive.”  Treasuries returned 0.9 percent in September, the first
monthly gain since April, according to the Bloomberg U.S.
 Treasury Bond Index. (BUSY)   Mortgages Reduced  Gross reduced the Total Return Fund’s holding of mortgage
securities to 35 percent in September, from 36 percent in
August, the company’s website showed. Mortgage securities were
the fund’s biggest holding in August, with U.S. government-related debt No. 2.  U.S. credit, which includes investment-grade and high-yield
securities, was unchanged at 9 percent. The category was
previously separated into two sectors called investment grade
and high yield.  The  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ’s emerging-market debt holding was at
6 percent, the same as in August, while money market and net
cash equivalents fell to 6 percent last month, from 7 percent.  Total Returns  Over the past five years, the Total Return Fund has
returned 7.88 percent, outperforming 84 percent of competitors.
It gained 2.46 percent over the past month, outperforming 95
percent of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It has lost investors 1.84 percent this year, outperforming just
44 percent of its peers, according to the data.  The fund’s government and Treasury debt category includes
holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, agency debt,  interest-rate swaps  and inflation-protected securities.  Investors should bet that when the Fed has concluded its
$85 billion in monthly purchases of Treasuries and mortgage
bonds,  interest rates  “will then stay lower than expected for a
long, long time,” he said. Investors should wager against Fed
forecasts that the key rate will be 1 percent higher by late
2015 and jump another 1 percent by late 2016, he said. The Fed
has kept the rate at zero to 0.25 percent since 2008.  There’s a 30 percent chance policy makers will increase the
fed-funds rate target to at least 0.5 percent by January 2015,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from futures contracts.
The odds were 68 percent a month ago amid speculation an end to
the program would be followed later by a rate boost.  The Fed refrained on Sept. 18 from slowing purchases,
saying more evidence of economic gains was needed.  Fund Withdrawals  Pimco had an estimated $6.5 billion in net redemptions last
month across its U.S. mutual funds, according to the Chicago-based research firm Morningstar Inc. Redemptions included an
estimated $5.4 billion from the Total Return Fund, Morningstar
said. Investors have pulled money from Pimco’s mutual funds
every month since June, when clients removed a record $14.5
billion, according to Morningstar.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
managed $1.97 trillion in  assets  as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  