-- Polish Premier Denies Plans to Dismiss Finance Minister
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-10-09T15:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/polish-premier-denies-report-he-plans-to-oust-finance-minister.html
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk
denied a report that he was planning to dismiss Finance Minister
 Jacek Rostowski  as the government finishes work on a pension
overhaul.  Reuters  reported  yesterday that Tusk allies had approached
at least three people as potential replacements after Rostowski
lost the premier’s confidence. It cited an unnamed lawmaker from
the ruling  Civic Platform  and people close to the government in
its report.  “What’s gotten into your heads?” Tusk told reporters in
parliament when asked about reports that he is looking for
Rostowski’s replacement. “It’s untrue.” He later called the
reports “unprofessional” and “indecent.”  Rostowski spearheaded plans to overhaul Poland’s privately-managed pension funds, sparking criticism from some of the
ruling party’s senior politicians including former Prime
Minister Jerzy Buzek. Speculation that the finance minister’s
job was in jeopardy began in August after Rostowski said this
year’s budget deficit will be wider than planned. Tusk denied he
had plans to dismiss him at least twice.  The  pension plan  foresees taking over 51.5 percent of fund
assets, mostly bonds that will be canceled to reduce public
debt. Tusk, who announced the measure last month, today said on
his Twitter Inc. account that the government will finish working
on the bill that details the overhaul this week and plans a
“new opening in November.”  Worsening Support  The planned changes coupled with the worst economic
slowdown in a decade have hurt the ruling Civic Platform
support. The opinion polls show the party is trailing the
opposition Law and Justice for the first time in six years. Tusk
became the first post-communist Polish prime minister in 2010 to
win re-election.  The planned “fresh start” will include changes in the
government, he said at the news conference in parliament today.  “The European crisis, which triggered a slowdown, though
not a recession in  Poland , is ending, and that requires a fresh
start, policy changes and corrections,” he told reporters.
“Therefore, in the middle of this term I’ll be proposing new
steps and also cabinet changes”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net ;
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  