-- Puerto Rico Yields Above Venezuela’s in Worst Rout: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/puerto-rico-yields-above-venezuela-s-in-worst-rout-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico ’s borrowing costs are at
a record high as the self-governing commonwealth’s revenue
trails forecasts, calling into question the island’s ability to
tackle a debt load greater than that of all but two U.S. states.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market are
punishing Puerto Rico even after the nine-month-old
administration of Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla boosted
pension contributions and raised taxes to keep the territory’s
obligations from being cut to junk. His challenge is compounded
by a shrinking local economy.  The island’s financial health is a concern for the U.S.
fixed-income market because about 77 percent of municipal-bond
mutual funds hold Puerto Rico debt, which is tax-exempt
nationwide, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The commonwealth of
3.7 million people has about $58 billion of gross tax-supported
debt, trailing only  California  and New York, Moody’s Investors
Service data show.  “We’ve heard the government of Puerto Rico talk about
achieving budget balance in a short time frame and that seems to
always be missed,” said Joseph Rosenblum, director of municipal
credit research in New York at AllianceBernstein LP, which
manages $31 billion of local bonds, including some from the
island. “There is a huge amount of debt, which worries a lot of
people.”  Governor’s Pitch  Garcia Padilla, 42, of the Popular Democratic Party, took
office in January. He traveled to New York this week to discuss
his fiscal and economic initiatives with ratings companies.
Puerto Rico is graded one step above junk by the three major
rating firms, with a negative outlook, and is preparing to
borrow as much as $1.2 billion by year-end to balance budgets.  Officials plan to use debt backed by sales-tax revenue for
the financing, because the securities are graded three to four
levels above the island’s general obligations. Even the sales-tax bonds, which Moody’s Investors Service cut to A2 this month,
sixth-highest, trade at historically high yields.  “This administration has implemented a number of very
significant measures to support sustainable economic growth
through  job creation  and continued progress towards a balanced
budget,” commonwealth Treasury Secretary Melba Acosta and Jose
Pagan, interim president of the Government Development Bank,
said in a statement after the sales-tax bonds’ rating was cut.  The bank plans a webcast for investors on Oct. 15.  Worse Off  Debt of Puerto Rico is faring even worse than the broader
municipal market, which is headed for its worst year since 2008.  Puerto Rico obligations  have lost 19.1 percent in 2013, on
pace for the steepest drop since at least 2000,  Standard &
Poor’s  data show. The declines  deepened  in the past few months
after  Detroit  filed a record U.S. municipal bankruptcy in July,
and as investors bet the  Federal Reserve  would curb its bond-buying program.  Unlike the former auto-industry capital, Puerto Rico isn’t
legally capable of filing for bankruptcy, Luis Sanchez Betances,
the island’s attorney general, said in an e-mail through his
spokesman, Miguel Pereira.  This week, investors demanded as much as 4.8 percentage
points of extra yield to own commonwealth general-obligation
bonds maturing in July 2041, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That was the biggest yield spread since the debt’s issue 19
months ago.  Exceeding Venezuela  Ten-year Puerto Rico debt yields about 7.94 percent,
according to BVAL data. That’s 13.1 percent on a taxable basis
for investors in the top federal income bracket.  The level exceeds the 12.6 percent interest rate on
similar-maturity U.S. dollar debt of  Venezuela . That country’s
borrowing costs have surged since the death of former President
 Hugo Chavez  in March, as signs of economic distress and
government rhetoric against perceived opponents raise concern
over the country’s ability and willingness to pay creditors.  Garcia Padilla has moved to end recurring budget deficits
while also reviving a struggling economy.  An index that measures the commonwealth’s economy fell 5.4
percent in August from a year earlier, the biggest drop since
2010, according to Puerto Rico’s Government Development Bank,
which handles the island’s capital-market transactions.  Garcia Padilla has enacted laws that boost the  retirement
age  and workers’ contributions to Puerto Rico’s pension system,
which has a funding level below that of any U.S. state.  The governor also implemented a new corporate tax and
expanded the sales levy to more transactions to help balance a
$9.77 billion budget for the fiscal year that began July 1.  ‘Significant’ Steps  Moody’s affirmed the commonwealth’s Baa3 general-obligation
rating Oct. 3, calling the administration’s fiscal steps
“significant.”  Puerto Rico has done more than any U.S. state in the past
few years to implement pension changes, raise revenue and reduce
budget shortfalls, said Rosenblum and Alan Schankel, managing
director at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “They stand well above actions taken by any state,”
Schankel said. “They are in worse shape than any state, so they
needed to take those actions, but I thought it was impressive
that they took the actions that they did. It was very socially
and politically difficult and challenging for the legislators
and the administration.”  Yet more than $1 billion of Garcia Padilla’s spending plan
relies on new tax measures.  Preliminary net revenue collections for the first quarter
tallied $1.68 billion, or $7 million less than budgeted
estimates, according to Acosta. That’s still $70 million more
than the same period last year.  Revenue Concern  “There’s some concern about revenue performance -- were
they too optimistic in terms of their projections?” Rosenblum
said. “And these series of tax increases are complex and still
need to be implemented.”  Garcia Padilla wants to make some agencies operate without
assistance from the central government, reducing one strain on
the island’s budget.  Puerto Rico’s Aqueduct & Sewer Authority, which serves
about 1.3 million customers, increased water rates this year to
generate $300 million of revenue to help wean the agency from
government financing. Meanwhile, higher petroleum taxes and
motor-vehicle fees will add $276 million to the Highways &
Transportation Authority’s operations.  Localities nationwide have scheduled about $8.3 billion of
borrowing in the next 30 days, or 12 percent below this year’s
average, as the federal government shutdown extends to a second
week.  Market Week  Top-rated 10-year munis  yield  2.72 percent, close to a
three-month low, and compared with  2.63 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 103 percent, where the average has been 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  The Cook County,  Illinois ,  district  that operates seven
City Colleges of Chicago plans to sell $250 million in federally
tax-exempt bonds this week. The proceeds will finance work such
as a health facility and a transportation hub, according to S&P,
which rates District 508’s debt AA, third-highest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  