-- Putin Ends Lithuania Border Curbs as EU Readies Complaint to WTO
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-10-09T17:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/putin-ends-lithuania-border-curbs-as-eu-readies-complaint-to-wto.html
President  Vladimir Putin  ended
tighter border checks on Lithuanian cargoes and vehicles that
the European Union’s top trade official yesterday called a
potential violation of World Trade Organization rules.  Lithuania , which now holds the EU’s rotating presidency,
said Russian customs posts on Sept. 11 began subjecting its
goods to full unloading and physical inspections, disrupting
shipments to the Baltic nation’s biggest export destination.  Putin today ordered Russia’s Federal Customs Service to end
the special controls and return to normal border procedures
tomorrow, the Moscow-based customs office  said  on its website.
Customs violations by Lithuanian exporters that prompted the
measures have now diminished, the office said.  EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht told the European
Parliament in Strasbourg  yesterday  the EU would ask the WTO this
month to assess  Russia ’s “inappropriate” actions against
Lithuania. Plans to strengthen EU trade ties with Ukraine and
other ex-Soviet countries at a November summit in Lithuania
probably are the real reason for Russia’s actions, Lithuanian
Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius said.  Dairy Ban  De Gucht also urged Russia to explain its decision this
week to ban all dairy imports from Lithuania based on what it
said were safety concerns. The EU “has confidence in the safety
of Lithuanian dairy products,” he said.  Lithuanian dairy companies halted shipments to Russia after
the trade suspension was announced on Oct. 7. Shares of AB Pieno
Zvaigzdes and AB Rokiskio Suris, the two biggest, are down 2.9
percent and 3.1 percent, respectively, in Vilnius this week. AB
Zemaitijos Pienas is down 3 percent and AB Vilkyskiu Pienine is
down 5.8 percent on the Nasdaq OMX Vilnius exchange.  Russia took 19 percent of Lithuanian exports last year,
making it the largest trade destination, with almost 85 percent
in transit goods, the Baltic nation’s statistics office said.  Lithuanian companies exported 557 million litai ($218
million) of cheese and other dairy products to Russia in 2012,
according to data on the office’s website. That was about a
fifth of the value of all Lithuania-origin goods exported to
Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  