-- RBNZ Says Loan Limits Likely to Reduce N.Z. House Sales by 5%
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-10-09T23:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/rbnz-says-loan-limits-likely-to-reduce-n-z-house-sales-by-5-.html
The  Reserve Bank  said New Zealand
house sales are likely to decline as a result of mortgage
lending restrictions it imposed this month.  “We estimate that the net effect on house sales is likely
to be a reduction of around 5 percent,” the Reserve Bank said
in an  analytical note  on the lending restrictions published in
Wellington today. It reiterated that the limits are likely to
reduce house-price inflation by up to 4 percentage points in the
first year.  From Oct. 1, only one in 10 new mortgages issued by banks
in New Zealand are allowed to exceed 80 percent of a home’s
purchase price. The Reserve Bank introduced the limit in an
attempt to cool  New Zealand ’s housing market without raising
 interest rates  from a record low and denting an economic
recovery.  While the bank has estimated that the lending restrictions
will result in 90-day bank bill yields being 30 basis points
lower than otherwise, it said today this was based on the
resulting reduction in general inflation pressure.  If monetary policy were used to target house prices
directly, the Official Cash Rate would need to be increased “by
much more than 30 basis points” to achieve the same housing
market outcomes as the mortgage lending restrictions, it said.  It also said that if the limits were applied for two years
immediately prior to a major fall in  house prices , “we
conservatively estimate that the reduction in banks’ downturn
losses on their housing loan portfolios would be 10-15
percent.”  Changed Behavior  The central bank said it is possible the restrictions could
lead to a reduction in house-price expectations and change
consumer behavior, and that “a significant change in behavior
could result in larger quantitative impact on house prices and
credit growth than modeled here.”  The Reserve Bank will be watching developments in house
prices and household credit “very closely” in coming months to
assess the effect of the policy, it said.  A first assessment of early signs of impact will be given
in the November Financial Stability Report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in 東京 at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  