-- Real Rises as Fed Outlook Bolsters Brazil Currency Intervention
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2013-10-09T20:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/real-rises-as-fed-outlook-bolsters-brazil-currency-intervention.html
Brazil’s real rose on speculation the
next chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve will champion
stimulus, bolstering the Latin American nation’s efforts to
strengthen the currency.  The real advanced after U.S. President  Barack Obama 
nominated  Janet Yellen , an architect of the program of bond
purchases supporting economic growth, to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke 
as Fed chairman. Swap rates fluctuated as economists projected
that Brazil’s central bank will raise  borrowing costs  today by a
half-percentage point for a fourth straight meeting.  “With the Fed’s help under Yellen, Brazil gets more time
before the monetary tsunami is reversed,”  Andre Perfeito , the
chief economist at Gradual Investimentos, said in an e-mailed
research note to clients.  The real appreciated 0.3 percent to 2.2048 per  U.S. dollar 
at 4:56 p.m. in Sao Paulo. The currency’s 10 percent rebound
since Aug. 22, a rally sparked by Brazil’s $60 billion
intervention plan, is helping slow an inflation surge that
policy makers have been trying to curb since they started
raising rates in April.  The annual inflation rate dropped to 5.86 percent in
September from 6.09 percent the prior month, the statistics
agency reported today. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.85 percent. The central bank’s
target range is 4.5 percent plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Swap rates on contracts maturing in January rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 9.45 percent.  Policy makers will increase the  target lending rate  today
to 9.50 percent from 9 percent, according to all of the 49
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Since April, the central bank
has increased it by 1.75 percentage points, the most among 49
major economies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  