-- Treasury Repo Rates Rise on Investor Stance Before Debt Limit
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-10-09T13:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/treasury-repo-rates-rise-on-investor-stance-before-debt-limit.html
Rates to borrow and lend Treasuries in
the repurchase-agreement market rose as investors step back from
transactions in securities that mature around the Oct. 17 date
that the government has said it will reach its $16.7 trillion
debt limit.  The overnight Treasury general collateral repo rate opened
at 0.16 percent, according to ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
inter-dealer broker, up from the open yesterday of 0.09 percent
and in line with the end-of-day rate of 0.17 percent.  “We’ve seen some rise in repo rates in sympathy with the
broad move higher in money-market yields, most dramatically in
the near-term Treasury bills, given concerns over the debt-ceiling,” said Andrew Hollenhorst, fixed-income strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York. “October futures contracts have had
a sharp yield rise, signaling expectations for significant moves
higher ahead, consistent with the sharp spike we saw in 2011
before the August debt-limit deadline.”  The price on the October NYSE Liffe futures contracts based
on the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. general collateral
repurchase agreement index for Treasuries has fallen, as the
implied yield rose to 0.165 percent from 0.1125 percent at the
end of last week and 0.0925 percent at the start of the month.
The contract yield signals where traders expect the DTCC GCF
repo rate to average during the contract month.  Budget Talks  President  Barack Obama  opened the door to talks with
Republicans on topics ranging from health care to entitlement
programs if they end the impasse about the U.S. debt ceiling.
Some possible paths out of the partisan impasse in  Washington 
are starting to emerge as the U.S. government enters the ninth
day of a partial shutdown, with less than a week before U.S.
 borrowing authority  lapses.  The proposals are tentative and lawmakers remain far from an
agreement amid verbal sparring between Obama and House Speaker
John Boehner.  “As we get closer to the Oct. 17 ceiling date, more
investors will take money out of the repo market, given concern
over the collateral that backs the agreements,” Hollenhorst
said.  Repo rates rose to a two-year high in August 2011 in the
days just before the U.S. was set to reach its debt limit, as
politicians wrangling over reaching a deal to list the ceiling.  Repo Market  Repurchase agreements that mature in longer than one day,
known as term repos, have risen for deals that come due in late
October to mid-November. Term repo agreements that mature on
Nov. 15 traded this morning at 21 basis points, or 0.21 percent,
according to Barclays Plc.  The DTCC futures contracts track movements in the $400
billion market for general collateral finance repurchase
agreements using three  DTCC GCF Repo indices , including one for
Treasuries,  agencies  and agency MBS. The GCF repo, a fraction of
the $2.6 trillion repo market, was introduced in 1998 by DTCC’s
Fixed Income Clearing Corp. unit with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the clearing banks that function
as the agent and collateral holder in tri-party repo
transactions.  In a general collateral repo transaction, the lender of
funds is willing to accept a variety of Treasury, mortgage-backed securities or agency collateral.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at interest
rates close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The movement in implied yields on the repo futures shows
“the market is looking for collateral rates to cheapen
significantly ahead of the crucial Oct. 17 deadline,” Joe Abate, a money-market strategist in New York at Barclays wrote
in a note to clients today, with ”cheapening” meaning a rise
in repo rates.  “Investors are clearly expressing a desire to avoid the
market until the debt ceiling issue is resolved,” Abate wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  