-- Treasury Rates Jump on Bills Due on Debt Deadline as Gross Buys
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-10-09T21:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/treasury-five-year-notes-gain-as-yellen-to-win-fed-nomination.html
Treasuries (BUSY110)  fell and rates surged on
bills maturing on the Oct. 17 deadline projected for when the
U.S. reaches its borrowing capacity as investors avoided the
securities with the risk of default rising.  Yields on benchmark  10-year notes  increased for a second
day as the U.S. auction of $21 billion of the debt drew lower-than-average demand. They extended gains after minutes of the
 Federal Reserve ’s last meeting showed most policy makers said
the central bank was likely to reduce the pace of its bond
purchases this year after it refrained from tapering in
September. Treasuries rose earlier after a White House official
said  Janet Yellen  would be nominated to head the Fed.  “We pick up pennies on the street, and this is a
particular penny we think is risk free,”  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund at  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., said of buying Treasury bills
during an Bloomberg Television interview. “When you analyze it
from the standpoint of odds, it’s probably a 250,000-to-one-type
of bet that there is a technical default or a default on a
Treasury bill. We think it’s almost impossible.”  Rates on Treasury bills due on Oct. 17 climbed 20 basis
points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 0.478 percent at 5 p.m.  New
York  time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They
jumped 14 basis points yesterday after being negative as
recently as Sept. 26.  The current 10-year yield rose three basis points to 2.66
percent. The 2.5 percent note due in August 2023 rose 1/4, or
$2.50 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 19/32.  ‘Potential Default’  Rates on bills due in October rose after President  Barack
Obama  rejected calls to invoke the Constitution’s 14th Amendment
to skirt Congressional approval for issuing new debt. His stance
places the onus on Congress to strike a deal ending the week-old
government shutdown and raising the debt limit by Oct. 17, or
face default, according to Treasury Department forecasts.  While rates jumped on bills maturing Oct. 17, those due
Nov. 21 were little changed at 0.043 percent, down from 0.064
percent on Oct. 4, the highest level since July 3.  “Yields on maturities from Oct. 17 to Nov. 14 reflect
money-market math that suggests principal payments on bills are
delayed for three-five weeks past regular payment dates,”  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , wrote in a note. “As it is unlikely that’s the real
expectation of owners of those bills, levels reflect concerns
about operational and explanation risk rather than panic about
potential default.”  Citigroup Survey  Two-thirds of respondents in a Citigroup Inc. survey said
money-market funds will be most compelled to sell securities on
a Treasury default. About 35 percent of respondents expect
Treasury yields to rise by more than 50 basis points on a
default, while 10 percent expect yields to fall by more than 50
basis points, according to polling conducted Oct. 7-9.  About 40 percent of respondents also expect central banks,
money managers and insurance companies to feel the pressure to
sell Treasuries, the survey said.  “We do believe that Congress will take the steps needed to
increase the debt ceiling and avoid default,” said Nancy Prior,
head of money funds at Boston-based  Fidelity Investments , the
largest U.S. provider of money funds, during a telephone
interview. “Nonetheless, we have been taking precautionary
measures and preparing contingency plans. We have avoided
maturities in the time period toward the end of October.”  Repo Rates  Rates to borrow and lend Treasuries in the repurchase-agreement market rose as investors step back from transactions
in securities that mature around the date the government has
said it will reach its $16.7 trillion debt limit.  The overnight Treasury general collateral repo rate opened
at 0.16 percent, according to ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
inter-dealer broker, up from the open yesterday of 0.09 percent
and in line with the end-of-day rate of 0.17 percent.  “Most participants viewed their economic projections as
broadly consistent with a slowing in the pace of the committee’s
purchases of longer-term securities this year and the completion
of the program in mid-2014,” according to the record of the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s Sept. 17-18 gathering, released
today in  Washington .  The FOMC held off tapering $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases last month and indicated that budget cuts and an
increase in borrowing costs were drags on expansion. Policy
makers wanted to see more evidence of steady growth to combat
7.3 percent unemployment, they said in a statement.  ‘Same Cloth’  Obama announced his selection of Yellen, the current Fed
vice chairman, in a ceremony at the White House that included
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke. Bernanke, whose term ends Jan. 31, cut
 interest rates  to a record of almost zero in 2008 and began the
bond-buying program, known as quantitative easing, to put
downward pressure on borrowing costs.  “Yellen and Bernanke are cut from the same cloth,” said
 Richard Clarida , a former assistant  Treasury secretary  who is
now an executive vice president at Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., and professor of
economics at  Columbia University  in New York, in an interview on
Bloomberg Television with  Tom Keene . An early task will be to
“lay out tapering and reduction of the Fed’s QE. At some point
in 2014, it’s very likely the Fed will be tapering.”  Treasuries due in one to 10 years have fallen 1.2 percent
in 2013, while  those  maturing in a decade or longer tumbled 9.2
percent, based on Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.  Shorter-maturity U.S. notes tend to follow what the Fed
does with its target for overnight lending between banks, while
longer-dated bonds are more influenced by the inflation outlook.  Notes Auction  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was
little changed at 2.21 percentage points. The spread expanded to
2.27 percentage points on Sept. 23, the most since Aug. 13.  Today’s 10-year auction drew a yield of 2.657 percent,
compared with 2.946 percent at last month’s sale. The  bid-to-cover ratio  -- which gauges demand by comparing total bids with
the amount of securities offered -- was 2.58, compared with an
average of 2.76 for the previous 10 sales.  “There was some concern because it’s the last supply we
get before the deadline,” said Jason Rogan, managing director
of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Securities LLC, a New
York-based brokerage for institutional investors. “There are a
lot of people waiting to get clarity on what’s going on in D.C.
with the shutdown and with the debt ceiling. It’s keeping people
a little bit cautious.”  Bond Sale  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 38.6 percent of the notes at today’s
sale, compared with an average of 37.3 percent for the past 10
sales.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 21.2 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 23.1 percent at the
previous 10 auctions.  Ten-year notes have lost 5.6 percent this year, compared
with a 2.5 percent drop in the broader U.S. Treasuries market,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
benchmark notes returned 4.2 percent in 2012, versus a 2.2
percent gain by Treasuries overall.  The auction was the second of three offerings this week as
the government sells $64 billion of notes and bonds. The U.S.
sold $30 billion of three-year debt yesterday at a yield of 0.71
percent and will auction $13 billion of 30-year bonds tomorrow.  The sales will raise $31.7 billion of new cash, as maturing
securities held by the public total $32.3 billion, according to
the  U.S. Treasury .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  