-- Reid Seeks Clean Debt-Limit Increase as Republicans Mull
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r ,   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-10-09T19:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/reid-seeks-clean-debt-limit-increase-as-republicans-mull.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said Republicans should support his plan to push the next debt-limit fight into 2015 and prevent a potential U.S. default.  Reid introduced a bill yesterday, setting up a test vote
for later this week. He’ll need at least six Senate Republicans
to let the plan move forward, and at least seven have left open
that possibility.  “Business leaders are begging us to do the right thing and
to do it now,” Reid said on the Senate floor today. “The time
for misleading rhetoric is through and the time for responsible
leadership is here.”  Reid spoke on the ninth day of a partial government
shutdown and with eight days remaining before U.S.  borrowing
authority  lapses Oct. 17. Lawmakers remain far from an agreement
amid continued verbal sparring between President  Barack Obama 
and House Speaker  John Boehner .  Obama said yesterday that he could accept a short-term
debt-ceiling increase without policy conditions that set the
terms for future talks. Boehner rejected the idea of passing a
debt-ceiling increase now and negotiating later. He labeled that
“unconditional surrender” and instead sought immediate talks
with Obama.  Obamacare Delay  A House Republican leadership aide, who didn’t want to be
identified discussing private talks, said party leaders won’t
agree to a short-term increase in the debt limit unless the
measure contains Republican policy priorities.  “If you had a clean debt ceiling increase without any kind
of reforms to control spending that would probably lead to
another downgrade in our credit ratings,” Representative  Steve Scalise , a Louisiana Republican and head of the Republican Study
Committee, told reporters today. The group includes lawmakers
who advocate for smaller government.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, spoke on the House floor today
to argue for delaying the requirement that individuals purchase
health insurance, citing the computer problems that have plagued
the federal government’s online health insurance exchange. He
spoke after he and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia met
today with the top two Democrats in the House,  Nancy Pelosi  of
California and  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland.  Pelosi said she urged Boehner to allow a vote on a
government funding bill without policy conditions.  “We were disappointed the speaker did not take yes for an
answer,” Pelosi said in a statement.  Obama Meetings  Obama invited House Democrats to the White House today at
4:30 p.m. to discuss the fiscal standoff. He also plans to meet
with the other three caucuses in Congress.  House Republicans 
will send their leaders and some committee chairmen, or 18 of
their 232 members, to a meeting tomorrow.  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.3 percent at 3:17
p.m. in New York, following its biggest two-day decline since
June.  Rates on Treasury bills due on Oct. 17 rose 13 basis points
to 0.41 percent after jumping 14 basis points yesterday. They
were negative as recently as Sept. 26. The benchmark 10-year
yield rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.66
percent at 2:10 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  ‘Political Deadlock’  “The current political deadlock in the United States is
needlessly putting at risk the stability and growth not only of
the U.S. but also the world economy,”  Angel Gurria , the
secretary-general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development, said in a statement today. “We still see the
probability of failing to raise the debt ceiling as low, but as
the government shutdown drags on, the level of concern is
ratcheting up.”  At a White House news conference yesterday, the president
again insisted that he wouldn’t negotiate under the risk of
default or a government shutdown, comparing Republicans to
hostage-takers and extortionists.  Obama wouldn’t answer directly when asked if he would make
sure that bondholders are paid first if Congress doesn’t act. He
said the government was “exploring all contingencies.”  Giving priority to interest payments would prevent the U.S.
from defaulting on its debt while requiring the government to
balance its budget immediately, an austerity step that House
Republicans would impose over 10 years.  The 11 Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee sent a
letter to Obama today saying that the president’s warnings about
a potential default are “unproductive and misguided.”  ‘Stoking Fears’  The absence of a debt limit increase “doesn’t mean there’s
a default,” said Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican.
“That means the debt limit hasn’t gone up. They’re two
different things,” he said. “There is not going to going to be
default. Period.”  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew is scheduled to testify
before the Finance panel at 8 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.  Unlike past fiscal feuds, this dispute is more about
Republican opposition to the president’s health-care law and
less about the amount of spending, though some Republicans are
starting to put more emphasis on deficits.  The  U.S. budget deficit  in June was 4.2 percent of gross
domestic product, down from 10.1 percent in February 2010 and
the narrowest since November 2008, when Obama was elected to his
first term, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from the
Treasury Department and the Bureau of Economic Analysis.  The government shutdown started Oct. 1 after Republicans
insisted that further funding for many programs must be tied to
a one-year delay in the mandate that individuals purchase health
insurance.  Shutdown Effects  Obama and Senate Democrats refused, and the resulting
furloughs and agency shutdowns have slowed mortgage closings,
small-business loans and nutrition assistance to poor mothers.
Some programs, such as  Social Security , continue uninterrupted.  In Congress this week, the House so far isn’t planning to
vote on a bill that would include a debt-ceiling increase.
Boehner outlined proposals last month that would tie party
priorities to the debt limit before that idea ran into
objections from hard-liners who wanted to focus on changing the
health law in the shutdown fight.  That inaction shifts attention to the Senate, where
Democrats are trying to pass a bill that would put pressure on
Boehner as the Oct. 17 deadline draws closer.  Democrats, who control 54 seats in the 100-member chamber,
would need the support of at least six Republicans on procedural
votes to pass their bill.  Debt Ceiling  The bill would suspend the debt ceiling through Dec. 31,
2014. Because the Treasury Department can use what are called
extraordinary measures to stave off default, another increase
wouldn’t be needed until sometime in 2015. The previous debt-limit suspension expired on May 18 and the extraordinary
measures are lasting five months.  Some Senate Republicans, including  Susan Collins  of Maine,
 Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia,  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska and  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee, didn’t rule out backing the Democrats’
plan. They said they must first see details.  One Republican senator --  Mark Kirk  of Illinois -- said he
would support a “clean” debt-ceiling measure.  The House continued a series of bipartisan votes to fund
narrow pieces of the government, including the  Food and Drug
Administration  and military death benefits. The House is now
scheduled to be in session on Saturday, Oct. 12.  Obama and Senate Democrats reject the piecemeal approach,
saying Republicans shouldn’t get to pick and choose politically
popular items.  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said the
administration expects to have a solution to the death-benefit
issue today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  