-- Rinehart Changed Rules for Her Own Benefit, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-10-09T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/rinehart-conduct-on-trial-in-kids-4-billion-trust-suit.html
Gina Rinehart , the richest woman in
the Asia Pacific region, changed the rules governing her
children’s $4 billion trust in 2006 for her own benefit and not
her children’s, breaching her duty as trustee, a lawyer said.  Christopher Withers, an attorney representing John Hancock,
37, and Bianca Rinehart, 36, who sued to remove their mother
from managing the trust in 2011, asked a judge at the start of a
trial in Sydney yesterday to invalidate the changes and name a
replacement trustee.  The changes adopted by Gina Rinehart’s closely held Hancock
Prospecting Pty governing the trust, which holds almost a
quarter of the mining company’s shares, prohibit non-family
members from owning the stock or managing the holdings. A
declaration from the court that the changes weren’t valid would
let Rinehart’s children sell shares to outsiders or borrow
against them.  The changes “could never have been in the interest of the
beneficiaries,” Withers said. “By exercising that power for
that purpose, Mrs. Rinehart sought to confer a benefit to
herself.”  Gina Rinehart won’t be required to appear in court for the
trial, with the case to be argued by lawyers on written
submissions.  Her eldest daughter Bianca Rinehart yesterday offered to
replace her mother in managing the  trust fund  in an unsuccessful
bid to end the two-year family dispute.  Ongoing Distractions  The offer was rejected by Gina Rinehart’s youngest daughter
Ginia, who has sided with her mother, allowing the trial in New
South Wales Supreme Court to start.  Justice Paul Brereton said he’d first listen to Withers’s
opening statement before issuing a ruling on whether Bianca
should be considered as a potential trustee. Gina Rinehart has
argued that Hancock Prospecting would inevitably suffer from
ongoing distractions or difficulties from hostile trustees.  Gina Rinehart, 59, built the iron ore and  coal  company she
inherited from her father Lang Hancock into an $18.4 billion
fortune, making her the 40th richest person in the world,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Her children’s
trust holds about 24 percent of the shares in Hancock
Prospecting, or HPPL.  The billionaire, who’d maintained she needed total control
of the company to press ahead with capital raising and joint
venture talks, last week offered to step down from managing the
trust in a bid to end the lawsuit.  Seeking Capital  A final resolution will help lift the uncertainty that has
surrounded Hancock Prospecting for the past two years, said
 Michael Adams , head of the School of Law at the University of
Western Sydney. The company is in the midst of talks to raise
funds for a A$10 billion ($9.4 billion) mining project in
 Western Australia .  “From a business view, her stepping aside will enable the
company to have a much stronger focus” and removes uncertainty
as it seeks to raise capital, Adams said in a phone interview.  The changes Gina Rinehart made in 2006 also included a
requirement for the children to enter into prenuptial agreements
to prevent non-family members from gaining ownership of HPPL
shares. She had said the changes were necessary to move ahead
with a joint venture with  Rio Tinto  Group to develop the Hope
Downs mine in Western  Australia .  “There’s no evidence to support that,” Withers said.  John Hancock, who had earlier nominated himself and
Adelaide businessman Bruce Carter, now favors his sister Bianca
to manage the trust, Withers told the court.  Independent Trustee  Ginia Rinehart, at 27 the youngest sibling, sought to have
an independent trustee named, determined by either ANZ Trustees,
a unit of Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., or
National Australia Trustees, a unit of National Australia Bank
Ltd., her lawyer Richard McHugh said.  ANZ Trustee is a unit of a senior lender to HPPL, Withers
objected.  Hope Rinehart Welker, 28,  John Hancock  and Bianca Rinehart
sued their mother in September 2011 after she sought to delay
the trust’s vesting date from that month to 2068. They accused
her of misconduct by falsely threatening them with bankruptcy
from capital gains taxes. Hope withdrew from the suit in March.  Brereton yesterday ordered HPPL to disclose 49 documents
the company claimed were privileged, relating to legal advice it
got in instituting changes to the constitution as well as
documents relating to HPPL’s joint venture with Rio Tinto in
developing the Hope Downs mine.  The judge also ordered Gina Rinehart to pay her children’s
legal costs relating to the request to remove her as trustee.  Sheep Farm  The family fortune  originated  in 1952 when  Lang Hancock 
discovered iron ore deposits in the Hamersley Range, which
bordered his sheep farm at Mulga Downs in Western Australia. His
grandson also claims that Gina Rinehart has reduced her
children’s holdings in HPPL.  “Mrs. Rinehart, not the plaintiffs, has grown the value of
the trust substantially,” her lawyer Paul McCann said in an
August 2011 statement. “The growth in value would not have
occurred without years of hard work and effort by my client.”  From the start of the lawsuit, Gina Rinehart has tried
repeatedly to have it dismissed and to keep details of the
dispute private.  Brereton in October 2011 rejected her first bid to throw
out the lawsuit and order that the dispute be resolved in
private mediation.  Gina Rinehart battled to keep documents in the lawsuit
sealed to Australia’s highest court, which on March 9, 2012,
refused to hear her appeal of a ruling allowing public access to
the filings. That resulted in the release of more than 800 pages
of documents, including an e-mail from Australian lawmaker
 Barnaby Joyce , who had urged the children to drop the lawsuit.  The case is John Langley Hancock v. Gina Hope Rinehart.
2011/285907, New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  