-- Ringgit, Bonds Decline as Stalemate on U.S. Debt Limit Lingers
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-10-09T03:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/ringgit-bonds-decline-as-stalemate-on-u-s-debt-limit-lingers.html
Malaysia’s ringgit declined for a
third day after President  Barack Obama  warned of a “very deep
recession” in the U.S., the nation’s fourth-biggest export
market, unless an agreement on the debt ceiling is reached.  The ringgit led losses in Asia amid a stalemate among U.S.
lawmakers on settling differences toward raising the $16.7
trillion borrowing limit before the Oct. 17 deadline, when the
country risks a debt default. The  International Monetary Fund 
cut its growth forecast for developing Asian nations yesterday
due to capital outflows from  emerging markets  and said a U.S.
default would “seriously damage” the world economy.  “We’re not seeing any clearer outcomes around the U.S.
fiscal debt-ceiling issue,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Singapore. “The whole of
USD/Asia is pushing higher.”  The ringgit weakened 0.4 percent, the most since Sept. 30,
to 3.2077 per dollar as of 10:59 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index
gained 0.1 percent, adding to yesterday’s 0.2 percent advance.  One-month implied volatility in the ringgit, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 10.65 percent.  Malaysia’s sovereign bonds also retreated, with the yield
on the 3.26 percent notes due March 2018 climbing four basis
points to 3.51 percent, the highest level in more than a week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ringgit is vulnerable to global swings in risk appetite
due to the high level of foreign ownership of the nation’s
assets, RHB Capital Bhd. analysts including Peck Boon Soon wrote
in a research report yesterday. Overseas investors held 28
percent of  Malaysia ’s government bonds in August, according to
the latest central bank data.  The Washington-based IMF lowered its 2013 growth forecast
for developing Asian economies to 6.3 percent from a 6.9 percent
prediction made in July, according to its World Economic Outlook
report released yesterday. It cut its global outlook to 2.9
percent from 3.1 percent.  Malaysia’s government will issue factory output figures for
August tomorrow. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for 7.5 percent increase from a year earlier, after
a 7.6 percent gain in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 