-- Ritchie Needs ‘Rock-Star’ CEO, Old CEO Says
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-10-09T20:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/ritchie-needs-rock-star-ceo-old-ceo-says.html
Ritchie Bros. Auctioneers Inc. (RBA) , which
has lost 38 percent of its market value in the past five years,
needs a “rock-star” leader with a stronger marketing
background, Chief Executive Officer Peter Blake said after the
company announced his retirement.  Ritchie Bros., the world’s largest seller of used equipment
to the construction, energy, mining and other industries, fell
5.4 percent to C$18.90 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, its lowest level
since Sept. 20, 2012. Shares of the Burnaby, British Columbia-based company have dropped 38 percent from a C$30.34 high on
Aug. 14, 2008.  “In my heart, there’s someone else out there who is a
rock-star person who can fit in here and help guide the next
advanced stage of growth I know is there,” Blake, 52, said in a
phone interview from  Vancouver . “I don’t anticipate any
dramatic change in direction; it’s more about the execution. A
leader that can align with that focus on customer service, sales
and marketing.”  Blake will remain chief executive officer until the
company’s next annual meeting in May 2014, and will assist the
board in its search for a successor, the company said in a
statement late yesterday. The company does not yet have a list
of candidates, he said.  Analysts with Credit Suisse Group AG said Blake’s
retirement was a surprise given his age. Hamzah Mazari, analyst
with Credit Suisse, maintained a neutral  rating , the equivalent
to a hold, while dropping the target price to C$18.71 from
C$20.75.  Ritchie Bros. stock has dropped in part due to struggles in
the U.S. market as well as execution issues, Blake said.  ‘Not Blind’  “I’m not blind to the fact the stock hasn’t moved in the
last five years, the board wasn’t blind to that either, so it
felt like the right thing to do,” he said. “There are things
we are doing that are very good, but a little later than we
should’ve and that’s an execution issue. My bad for not being in
front of that.”  This includes introducing more robust database software for
its sales teams, he said.  Ritchie Bros. posted second-quarter  adjusted earnings  of 28
cents a share in August, ahead of analysts’ estimates for 27
cents, snapping five quarters of worse-than-forecast results,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The board agreed that the company could use a fresh
perspective, Blake said.  “I can handle myself in the boardroom, with sales and
marketing, but it’s not my first skill-set,” said Blake, who is
a chartered accountant and was the company’s chief financial
officer before taking over as CEO in 2004. “Like everybody
else, I’m really good at some stuff and I suck at other things.
In fairness to the organization, we need someone who is really,
really good at some of the things I’m not really good at.”  Blake said he hasn’t had any discussions for other jobs at
this point and may take some time off to spend with his family.
He also owns about 140,000  shares  of Ritchie Bros. and is not
planning to sell his holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stefanie Batcho-Lino at 
 sbatcholino1@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  