-- Royal Mail IPO Oversubscribed With 700,000 Retail Applications
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-10-09T15:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/royal-mail-ipo-oversubscribed-with-700-000-retail-applications.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
said the initial public offering of Royal Mail Group Ltd. had
drawn 700,000 applications for shares from retail investors.  Cable’s department didn’t encourage retail applications in
the manner of the 1986 privatization of British Gas, now
 Centrica Plc (CNA) , which was advertised on television, and set a
monthlong timetable from announcement to the beginning of
trading. Even so, the offering was seven times oversubscribed.  Testifying on the IPO to Parliament’s Business Committee in
London today, Cable said he was looking to “place the shares
with long-term investors.” He rejected suggestions from
lawmakers that the popularity of the offering meant the price
had been set too low or that ministers should consider a
windfall tax on any property sales the privatized company might
make.  The popularity of the offering means share orders priced
below the maximum 330 pence risk missing out, two people
familiar with the sale process said yesterday. The stock, set to
raise 1.7 billion pounds ($2.7 billion) for the government, may
gain 20 percent once trading starts, according to so-called  gray
market prices .  Looking at previously oversubscribed offerings, Cable said,
“the trajectory of their subsequent share values has been very,
very disparate -- some have gone down.”  Royal Mail’s privatization will be the biggest in the U.K.
since British Rail was broken up in the 1990s. The IPO of the
360-year-old company, which has refocused on package-delivery
markets spurred by a trend toward web-based purchasing, opened
Sept. 27 and was fully subscribed within hours. The sale closed
yesterday and conditional trading commences on Oct. 11.  Out of the company’s 150,000 staff, 371 have opted not to
receive free shares in the company, Cable said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  