-- Ruble Rallies as Plunge After Free-Float Shift Seen Overdone
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-10-09T12:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/ruble-rallies-as-plunge-after-free-float-shift-seen-overdone.html
The ruble rebounded as investors bet
losses triggered by the Russian central bank’s decision to scale
back interventions as it shifts to a free-floating currency were
overdone.  The ruble appreciated 0.3 percent against Bank Rossii’s
target basket of dollars and euros to 37.4742 by 3:25 p.m. in
Moscow, paring yesterday’s 0.4 percent retreat. Yields on ruble-denominated benchmark debt due February 2027 were unchanged at
7.67 percent.  The ruble tumbled yesterday evening after the central bank
said it widened the band within which the ruble trades freely to
3.1 rubles from 1 ruble and removed a sub-band where it buys or
sells $70 million of currency. The move brings the world’s
biggest energy exporter closer to its goal of a free-floating
currency by 2015 as Bank Rossii seeks to target inflation
instead of the  exchange rate .  “We’d buy the ruble on this news,” Sergey Fishgoyt,
deputy head of foreign exchange trading at OAO Bank Otkritie,
said in e-mailed comments. The change won’t be a significant
factor for the currency because the main intervention bands
remain in place, he said.  Bank Rossii will keep the currency floating within the same
7-ruble corridor, which includes the wider non-intervention zone
and bands at the top and the bottom where the regulator steps
into the market. The central bank has sold more than 600 billion
rubles ($18.5 billion) of foreign currency since May 29 to stem
the ruble’s declines.  The ruble has depreciated 6.4 percent this year against the
dollar compared with a 0.4 percent slide for  Poland ’s zloty.  More Flexible  “The actions have no negative short-term consequences for
the ruble’s prospects as it continues to trade at the same
levels with same selling amounts by the central bank,” Dmitry Polevoy, ING Groep NV’s chief economist for  Russia , said in an
e-mailed note.  Brent crude , Russia’s chief export earner, fell 0.3 percent
to $109.80 per barrel in  London , snapping three days of gains.
An index of 20 emerging-market currencies compiled by Bloomberg
fell 0.2 percent to 94.1908. The ruble strengthened 0.2 against
the dollar to 32.3575 and advanced 0.5 percent against the euro
to 43.74.  Russia’s deteriorating balance of payments will be more
apparent as the country moves to a free-floating currency,
leaving “less reason to expect real ruble appreciation,”
Morgan Stanley analyst  James Lord  said in an e-mailed note.  “Together with the broader market backdrop, these changes
suggest that ruble will weaken over the short term,” Lord said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  