-- Greenpeace to Target Gazprom as Russia Says Drugs Seized on Ship
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-10-09T16:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/russia-says-drugs-seized-on-greenpeace-ship-as-new-charges-loom.html
Russia  said it found drugs on a
Greenpeace ship, warning that more serious charges may be added
to a piracy case as the environmental group threatens to hold
European protests against OAO Gazprom and its partners.  Investigators also accused some campaigners of trying to
ram a Russian Coast Guard craft, endangering the lives of
officials. The suspects are being identified, the Investigative
Committee said in a website  statement  today.  The detention of 28 activists and two journalists from 18
countries, who are facing as long as 15 years in jail for
alleged piracy during an Arctic protest, has provoked a
diplomatic row as the Netherlands seeks to force Russia to
release the Dutch-registered Arctic Sunrise and its crew,
detained after two  Greenpeace  protesters scaled natural gas
exporter  Gazprom (GAZP) ’s Prirazlomnoye oil rig in the Pechora Sea.  “We are not picking a fight with the Russian government,
our focus is Gazprom,” Greenpeace International’s executive
director Kumi Naidoo, said in a phone interview from Amsterdam
today. “We are looking at where Gazprom operates, in  Europe  in
particular. We are trying to understand its points of
vulnerability. We think that consumers of Gazprom gas in Europe
will be appalled by what the company is doing in the Arctic.”  Greenpeace denied in separate statements that the ship was
carrying drugs and said the accusation that campaigners tried to
ram a boat carrying border guards is “a fantasy.”  New charges will “obviously” be brought against some of
the activists, Russia’s Investigative Committee said, without
giving details.  Targeting Gazprom  Greenpeace is planning to target Gazprom and European
companies buying its natural gas to secure the activists’
release, according to Naidoo. The group is considering a
consumer campaign against the state-run Russian company, which
supplies about a quarter of the European Union’s gas, he said.  Gazprom, Russia’s largest company, plans to become the
first Russian explorer to start producing oil in the Arctic
offshore as soon as this year. Greenpeace activists scaled the
same drilling platform in 2012.  “This confirms that their goal is not to protect the
environment but to attract attention,”  Sergei Kupriyanov , a
spokesman for Moscow-based Gazprom, said by phone. “The
activists were detained not by Gazprom but by state
investigative bodies and our European clients have absolutely
nothing to do with it.”  30 Countries  Greenpeace campaigners earlier this month occupied gasoline
stations in Germany operated by Gazprom. They also delayed a
Champions League soccer game between Basel and Germany’s Schalke
04, sponsored by Gazprom, unfurling a protest banner. Last
month, demonstrations were staged in 30 countries, including
 Brazil ,  France  and the U.S., outside Russian diplomatic missions
and Gazprom offices.  “If we make it difficult for Gazprom to sell to Europe,
that will hurt the company,” said Naidoo, adding that any
campaign would also target “partners” of Gazprom, including
companies in  Germany  and other EU states that buy its gas.  Adding to the tensions, President Vladimir Putin yesterday
demanded a Dutch apology after police arrested a Russian
diplomat in  The Hague  and allegedly beat him in front of his
family, according to a  statement  by the Foreign Ministry in
Moscow. The Netherlands today said the envoy’s diplomatic
immunity had been violated and offered its apologies over the
incident.  Arctic Sunrise  Two citizens of the Netherlands are among the Greenpeace
activists in custody in the port city of Murmansk. The country’s
authorities said Oct. 4 that they had started arbitration to
free them and the Arctic Sunrise on the basis of the United
Nations Convention on Law of the Sea, a decision Greenpeace said
it “applauds.”  Russian investigators said they found morphine and opium
straw on board the ship as well as “dual-use” equipment that
may have been intended for other than ecological purposes.  “We can only assume the Russian authorities are referring
to the medical supplies that our ships are obliged to carry
under maritime law,” Greenpeace said in an e-mailed statement.
“The ship was first searched by Russian officers weeks ago,
they scoured every corner of it, so we assume this announcement
is designed to deflect attention from the growing global outrage
over the continued imprisonment of the detainees.”  Naidoo sent a letter to Putin asking for a meeting and
offered to come to Russia and make himself a personal guarantor
of the group’s activists if they are released on bail, according
to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  