-- Samsung Unveils Curved Smartphone in Challenge to Apple
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-10-09T10:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/samsung-unveils-first-curved-smartphone-in-challenge-to-apple.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  will start
selling what it called the world’s first smartphone with a
curved display as the largest handset maker adds another device
to help win users from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The 5.7-inch (14 centimeter) Galaxy Round will go on sale
starting tomorrow in  South Korea  and cost 1,089,000 won
($1,010), Samsung said in an e-mailed statement today. The 7.9
millimeter thick device will only be available in the Suwon,
South Korea-based company’s home market and comes in brown.  The Round joins the Galaxy Gear smartwatch, the Galaxy
Golden smartphone with a clamshell design, the flagship S4 and
an upgraded Note among devices introduced this year as Samsung
targets products at multiple prices to maintain sales growth.
Amid fresh competition from Apple’s latest iPhones, Samsung is
expanding handsets into new shapes such as the curved design as
it works on technology to produce flexible screens.  “This phone signifies something that is much more
important,” said Warren Lau, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities
Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “In the next 18 months or so, we could see
Samsung launching foldable display devices. That is going to be
a game changer.”  That could see a 5.5-inch smartphone unfold to an 11-inch
display and be part of a brand new market, said Lau.  In January, Samsung showed a flexible organic light-emitting diode display that can bend as it plays images and said
it has “various mobile application opportunities,” according
to a  statement  at the time. The material is composed of thin
plastic instead of glass.  Curved Televisions  The Galaxy Round’s curved display is designed to make the
phone screen viewable from different angles and be more
comfortable to hold in a user’s hand, Samsung said.  Samsung started selling 55-inch curved televisions using
organic light-emitting diodes for about $13,500 in its home
market in June.  Last month, Samsung released the Galaxy Gear wristwatch
device that can make phone calls, check e-mails and take photos.
Cupertino, California-based Apple has a team of designers
working on a watch-like device, two people familiar the matter
said in February.  The first companies to sell devices that multitask could
lock customers into their platform and boost device sales, with
researcher  Strategy Analytics  expecting 500,000 Galaxy Gears to
be shipped this year.  Apple Dispute  Samsung shipped about 32 percent of global smartphone
deliveries in the second quarter, more than twice its nearest
competitor, Apple, according to researcher IDC.  The company announced the new curved phone a day after U.S.
President  Barack Obama  decided not to veto a ban won by Apple in
a patent-infringement dispute. The Korean company asked Obama to
overturn the ban ordered by the U.S. International Trade
Commission on public policy grounds, the same relief the
president gave Apple in August from an order barring imports of
the iPhone 4S.  The company last week reported record third-quarter
operating profit of 10.1 trillion won as an expanded range of
mid-priced smartphones captured sales in China and  India .  Samsung is also the world’s biggest maker of chips and
televisions.  The A7 processor inside Apple’s new iPhone 5s was made by
Samsung, according to a teardown of the handset by IFixit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  