-- Samsung, Bridgestone, Vuitton, BAT: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-09T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/samsung-bridgestone-vuitton-bat-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  must stop
importing some models of smartphones and tablet computers into
the U.S. after President  Barack Obama ’s administration upheld a
ban won by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in a patent-infringement dispute.  “After carefully weighing policy considerations, including
the impact on consumers and competition, advice from agencies,
and information from interested parties, I have decided to
allow” the import ban to proceed, Obama’s designee, U.S. Trade
Representative  Michael Froman , said in a statement yesterday.  The companies are the largest in the $279.9 billion global
smartphone market, with Samsung holding the title of world’s
biggest. Patent litigation on four continents, which has cost
the companies hundreds of millions of dollars in legal fees, has
left no clear winner, with each seeking the biggest prize of
limiting the other’s sales in the U.S.  The Korean company argued the ban ordered by the U.S.
International Trade Commission should be overturned on public
policy grounds, especially since a similar order it won against
Apple’s iPhone 4S was thwarted by a presidential veto in August.
Samsung can now seek a delay in the ban from a U.S. appeals
court that will consider the entire case on legal grounds.  The administration said the nationality of the two
companies “played no role in the review process.”  While Cupertino, California-based Apple typically has just
four iPhone models on the market at any time, Samsung has dozens
of handsets, led by its flagship Galaxy S4, which wasn’t part of
the case. Apple could still argue that newer models still use
the technology.  The import ban is on a limited number of products. The ITC
said newer models by Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung had worked
around two Apple patents, which covered a multi-touch feature
and one for a sensor for headphone jacks.  “The order expressly states that these devices and any
other Samsung electronic media devices incorporating the
approved design-around technologies are not covered,” Froman
said in the statement.  Samsung said it was disappointed in the decision.  “It will serve only to reduce competition and limit choice
for the American consumer,”  Adam Yates , a spokesman for the
company, said in an e-mail. Kristin Huguet, an Apple
spokeswoman, said the company had no comment.  Internet Patents to Appeal Dismissal of Infringement Suit  Internet Patents Corp. (PTNT) , a company seeking to enforce some
e-commerce patents, said it will appeal a federal court ruling
dismissing a patent infringement case against a Tennessee-based
insurance company.  Rancho Cordova, California-based Internet Patents sued
General Automobile Insurance Services Inc. for patent
infringement in federal court in San Francisco in September
2012, alleging infringement of its 7,707,505 patent, which was
issued in April 2010.  Internet Patents claimed that the insurance company’s
website infringed the patent, which covers dynamic tables for a
graphic user interface.  The insurance company responded to the complaint, saying
that the patent was invalid because what it purported to cover
wasn’t what U.S. patent law considered valid subject matter.  In a Sept. 24 order, U.S. District Judge Jeffrey S. White
agreed. He said that the patent added no elements or
combinations of elements that were sufficient to ensure that it
covered more than an abstract idea.  The patent holder “has failed to show how the desired
result of the patent is coupled with or integrated into a
specific process,” the judge said.  In an Oct. 7 statement, Internet Patents said that it
considers that the court didn’t apply the law on patent
eligibility correctly and “misconstrued the substance of the
technology” covered by the patent.  The  California  company said it will file an appeal to the
Washington-based  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit.  The case is Internet Patents Corp. v. General Automobile
Insurance Services Inc., 12-cv-05036, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  Google Seeks Patent on Method of Splitting Restaurant Check  Google Inc. (GOOG) , creator of the most-used Internet search
engine, applied for a patent on what is essentially a method of
splitting restaurant checks.  Application 20130262294 , published Oct. 3 in the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office’s database of pending applications,
covers what  Mountain View , California-based Google calls a
method of “tracking and managing group expenditures.”  Google said when people dine out, one member of the group
usually pays the bill out of convenience and expects to be paid
back by the others. When some members forget or fail to pay the
bill “this is unfair for the group member who paid the bill,”
according to the application.  The company said that the technology covered by the patent
application fills a need for “an efficient way to track group
expenditures and settle balances between group members.”  The system requires a computer program product and a
computer system with a tracking module that can “maintain a
transaction record for the group that includes a plurality of
payment transactions.” The program contains a settlement module
that initiates a transfer of funds between a first and second
user when a “settling event” occurs.  Google applied for the patent in March 2012.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Bridgestone Says Tire-Lettering Kits Infringe Trademark  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) ’s Bridgestone Americas Tire Operations
unit sued a Wisconsin maker of lettering for tires for trademark
infringement.  Iron Cross Innovations LLC  of North Fond du Lac, Wisconsin,
sells lettering kits that allow buyers to glue Bridgestone’s
logo onto tire sidewalls, according to the complaint filed Oct.
4 in federal court in Nashville, Tennessee.  The kits can be used regardless of whether the tires are
new, used or made by a competitor, Chuo-ku, Japan-based
Bridgestone said in its complaint. In 2011, Iron Cross
approached Bridgestone, seeking a license allowing the use of
the Japanese company’s logo for the kits.  Bridgestone said it refused and asked, to no avail, that
Iron Cross not make lettering kits containing the Bridgestone
logo. The tire company said in its pleadings that defects in the
kits’ letters, improper application of the logo and placement of
the logo on non-Bridgestone products “will be wrongly
attributed” to Bridgestone.  This will damage the tire company and cause customer
confusion, Bridgestone said. The Japanese company said it
operates more than 2,000 directly owned and operated outlets in
North America and employs more than 45,000 people.  Bridgestone cited its efforts to promote its trademark in
the U.S., including buying commercials during the  National
Football League ’s Super Bowl broadcast, and sponsorship of auto-racing events.  The company requested a court order barring the further use
of its mark by Iron Cross, the surrender of all infringing
products and promotional materials, and awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Additionally, Bridgestone asked that Iron Cross be ordered
to start a campaign of corrective advertising and pay additional
damages as punishment for its actions.  There is “no basis” for Bridgestone’s accusations, Iron
Cross spokesman Chad Gantner said in an e-mail. Iron Cross
hasn’t used the tire company’s logo nor “have we claimed to be
Bridgestone,” he said.  The case is Bridgestone Americas Tire Operations LLC v.
Iron Cross innovations LLC, 3:13-cv-01092, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Tennessee (Nashville).  Louis Vuitton Says Sogo Hong Kong Sells Infringing Merchandise  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the French producer of
 luxury goods , filed a trademark infringement lawsuit against the
 Sogo Hong Kong  department store, the Hong Kong Standard
reported.  The company said in its pleadings that it wanted a wide
range of infringing merchandise as well as promotional materials
seized and destroyed, according to the newspaper.  The court filing didn’t name the Sogo products that
allegedly infringed the marks, the Standard reported.  Additionally, the Paris-based company requested Sogo’s
profits attributable to the alleged infringement, according to
the Hong Kong newspaper.  EU Parliament Dilutes Proposal for Tougher Tobacco Rules  The European Parliament scaled back plans for more
stringent regulation of the tobacco industry, setting up a clash
with national governments over draft legislation meant to curb
smoking in Europe.  The European Union assembly rejected a proposal to regulate
nicotine-containing goods like electronic cigarettes as
medicines, opting instead to apply rules on general product
safety. It also failed to endorse a requirement for plain
packaging such as  Australia  has already adopted.  As part of a plan to ban the sale of cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco with characterizing flavors, the 28-nation
Parliament also voted to phase out menthol cigarettes over eight
years rather than three years agreed by EU governments.  Linda McAvan, a U.K. Socialist who steered the draft law
through the EU Parliament and opposed the looser provisions for
electronic and menthol cigarettes, expressed satisfaction that
the assembly upheld two central positions of governments
regarding labels. These would require that cigarette packages
feature a combined pictorial and text alert covering 65 percent
of the front and back and that the health warnings appear at the
top of the packs. Under current EU rules, anti-smoking images on
packages are optional while text warnings are mandatory.  “This is a big step forward compared to the status quo,”
McAvan, who defeated other amendments to limit the pictorial and
text warning to 50 percent of the packages and allow the health
warnings to appear at the bottom, told reporters after the vote
yesterday in Strasbourg, France.  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , Europe’s largest cigarette
maker, praised what it called “sensible modifications” by the
European parliamentarians to the draft EU law while saying it is
still too tough.  “Health warnings covering more than half of the cigarette
pack goes well beyond what is needed to fully inform consumers
of the health risks and a ban on mentholated cigarettes will
only increase the demand for black-market goods,” London-based
BAT said in an e-mailed statement.  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Clement Says Canada Reaching Out to Brazil on Spying Issue  Canadian Treasury Board President  Tony Clement  said his
government is reaching out to Brazil, citing concerns over
allegations of industrial espionage.  Clement made the comments after Foreign Relations Minister
Luiz Alberto Figueiredo protested to Canada’s ambassador in
Brasilia over the alleged spying by Canadian intelligence
service on Brazil’s Energy Ministry. Clement’s comments echo
statements made by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  in  Indonesia ,
where he was attending a meeting of Asia-Pacific leaders.  Brazil’s Globo TV on Oct. 6 reported that the U.S. and
Canadian governments spied on the country’s energy ministry,
citing documents leaked by Edward Snowden.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 