-- Santa Fe Said to Push Back Mexican IPO as Larger Offerings Loom
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-10-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/santa-fe-said-to-delay-mexico-ipo-as-larger-offerings-loom-1-.html
Grupo Hotelero  Santa Fe  SAB delayed
its initial public offering planned for yesterday, according to
two people with direct knowledge of the decision, who asked not
to be identified because they aren’t authorized to speak
publicly on the matter.  The Mexico City-based  hotelier  backed by private equity
firm Nexxus Capital SC had said in regulatory filings that it
would probably raise about 3.3 billion pesos ($250 million),
plus a 15 percent overallotment option for underwriters.  Investors probably passed on Santa Fe in favor of bigger
issuers readying offerings, including a deal by Mexican dairy
company  Grupo Lala SAB (LALAB)  that may raise about 11.3 billion pesos
this month, according to Aldo Miranda, a trader at Intercam Casa
de Bolsa SA. Mexican businesses have already raised a record
$10.4 billion in equity markets this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The fact that there are other deals in the pipeline made
Hotelero Santa Fe less attractive for institutional investors,”
Miranda said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “It
makes sense that they would wait.”  Sigma Alimentos SA, the food division of conglomerate  Alfa
SAB (ALFAA) , said last month it has contacted banks including Citigroup
Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. about a possible IPO.  IPC Decline  Intercam’s Miranda said the Santa Fe offering was also
scuttled by a rout in Mexican stocks.  The benchmark IPC index of 35 Mexican companies fell 1.3
percent yesterday to 39,916.84, the lowest close since Sept. 6.
The peso fell 0.7 percent to 13.2246 per  U.S. dollar  as
investors awaited the outcome of a budget stalemate in the U.S.,
Mexico’s top export market. The U.S. government began a partial
shutdown Oct. 1 after lawmakers failed to reach a budget
agreement before the start of a new fiscal year.  Mauricio Cravioto, director of marketing with Santa Fe,
didn’t respond to an e-mail and telephone call seeking comment
on the decision to delay the IPO.  Concentradora Fibra Danhos SA, a  Mexico  real-estate
investment trust, raised at least 5.2 billion pesos ($394
million) in a separate Mexican IPO yesterday, said two people
with direct knowledge of that deal, who asked not to be named
because the details remained private. The offering sold for 26
pesos a share, the bottom of a 26 peso-to-28 peso range
projected by the company, the people said.  A press official for Fibra Danhos declined to comment on
the results of the offering.  Danhos is the fourth Fibra, as the Mexican REITs are known,
to stage an IPO this year. The BMV Fibras index, created by
stock exchange operator Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB to track
the securities, has declined 6.6 percent this year based on
total return. Shares of the other three Fibras to hold IPOs this
year have fallen since going public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  