-- Scotiabank Seeks to Boost Thailand Unit Profit Share by 38%
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-10-09T20:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/scotiabank-seeks-to-boost-thailand-unit-profit-share-by-38-3-.html
Bank of Nova Scotia ,  Canada ’s third-largest lender by assets, is seeking to boost annual profit
contributions from its Thai unit by 38 percent in three years as
it absorbs an acquisition.  Thai contributions could rise to C$200 million ($193
million) by 2015 from C$145 million for the year ended Oct. 31,
2012, Brendan King, a senior vice-president of international
banking at the Toronto-based bank, said in an interview in
Singapore yesterday. Scotiabank seeks to increase return on
equity from its Thanachart Bank unit to the “mid-teens” in
three to five years from about 11 percent to 12 percent now, he
said.  Scotiabank bought a stake in Bangkok-based Thanachart in
2007 and increased it to 49 percent in 2009. The next year,
Thanachart paid C$2.2 billion to purchase Siam City Bank Pcl,
the integration of which is not yet complete, King said. The
purchases were part of an expansion strategy that has given
Scotiabank businesses in 14 Asian countries and territories.  “In  Thailand , we’re really focused on putting in the
infrastructure platforms, processes and technology to optimize
the Siam City acquisition,” said King, who is also Thanachart’s
deputy chief executive. “We’re really focused on maximizing
that opportunity for the next two years before we put our head
up and look around again.”  Profit Contribution  Contributions from Thanachart to Scotiabank’s profits
should grow to at least C$180 million for the year ending Oct.
31, King said. That excludes a one-time gain of C$150 million
from the sale of Thanachart’s life insurance subsidiary to
Prudential Plc, announced last November. Scotia’s net income
attributable to common shareholders for the year ended Oct. 31,
2012, was C$6 billion.  Scotiabank rose 0.2 percent to C$58.95 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto. The shares gained 2.6 percent this year, outpacing the
2.4 percent advance of the benchmark  Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index. (SPTSX)   Scotiabank will look at expanding in  Vietnam ,  Indonesia  and
the  Philippines  “very seriously in 2014,” King said. While the
lender is known more as a wholesale and trade finance bank in
 Asia , it wants to expand in retail banking in those countries,
he said. The bank has a representative office in Vietnam and no
presence in the other two, King said.  Local Partnerships  Entry into these countries will be directly by Scotiabank,
which will probably open a representative office first, he said.
The lender may then partner with local banks and consider
acquisitions, he said.  The Philippines is predicted to grow 6.81 percent this
year, the fastest in Southeast Asia, followed by Indonesia and
Vietnam at 5.3 percent, and Thailand at 3.11 percent, according
to International Monetary Fund forecasts. The U.S., the largest
economy, and Canada are expected to grow by 1.56 percent and
1.61 percent, respectively, the data show.  “We really focus globally on high-growth markets where the
population may be under-banked or population demographics are
supportive and you see the middle class growing and
developing,” King said. “Markets in  Southeast Asia  certainly
fit that bill.”  About 63 percent of Canadian companies operating in the
region became profitable within three years, according to a
survey released today by Singapore’s  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB) 
and the Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada. The cost of doing
business in the region makes it a “compelling location for
businesses seeking expansion opportunities,” said Ian Wong, a
managing director in the international banking division of UOB.  King said he expects the anticipated creation by 2015 of an
economic zone in Southeast Asia modeled after the European Union
will encourage more Thai banks to expand outside their home
country, especially into neighboring Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar.
Thanachart may be the vehicle through which Scotiabank gets into
these countries, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore  at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  