-- Security Trumping Investment Risks Canada BlackBerry Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-10T14:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/security-trumping-investment-risks-canada-blackberry-deal.html
Canada’s heightened focus on
national security at the expense of commerce is undermining the
ability of companies like  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  to attract foreign
investors.  The government cited national security concerns in
rejecting the purchase of a Canadian telecommunications business
by a foreign buyer this week, the first time it has made such a
reference in blocking a deal since a national-security provision
was added to the nation’s takeover law in 2009. The move comes
amid increased scrutiny of foreign companies in strategic
industries such as energy and technology. Cabinet minister  Tony
Clement  said Oct. 8 national security would play a role in
assessing offers for struggling smartphone maker BlackBerry,
which is seeking a buyer.  “National security is the ultimate trump card,” Iain Grant, president of the consulting firm SeaBoard Group, said
from  Montreal . “If competition and the consumer interest is the
prime focus of the government, national security still trumps
that.”  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  appears to be heeding
concerns raised by intelligence authorities about the safety of
 data networks  and other infrastructure. That may clash with his
government’s vows to increase competition in the wireless
industry and attract foreign capital to develop Canada’s natural
resources.  Sensitive Role  The government referred to unspecified security concerns as
it blocked the C$520 million ($500 million) sale of  Manitoba
Telecom Services Inc. (MBT) ’s Allstream unit to an investment firm co-founded by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris . Industry
Minister  James Moore  didn’t elaborate on the decision other than
to say the deal with Accelero Capital Holdings Sarl Group was
blocked under national security provisions in Canada’s foreign
investment law. Industry Canada spokeswoman Jessica Fletcher
declined to comment when reached by  Bloomberg News  yesterday.  BlackBerry is soliciting rival bids after agreeing last
month to a tentative $4.7 billion offer from Toronto-based
Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd., its largest shareholder. Under
that pact, BlackBerry has until Nov. 4 to consider other
proposals that could come from the U.S. or  Asia  while Fairfax
and a group of investors conduct due diligence and line up
financing. Fairfax CEO Prem Watsa has said his bidding
consortium has a strong Canadian contingent however he has yet
to name any of his partners.  Share Trading  Shares (BBRY)  of Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry dropped 15
cents to $7.96 at 10:07 a.m. in  New York . Manitoba Telecom,
based in Winnipeg, rose 6 cents to C$29.30 in Toronto.  BlackBerry’s share of the global smartphone market has
tumbled in recent years to less than 3 percent as Apple Inc. and
Samsung Electronics Co. have gained share, according to research
firm IDC. BlackBerry retains a sensitive role operating secure
e-mail servers for clients including the Pentagon and NATO.  A foreign bid for BlackBerry would raise similar issues as
the Allstream transaction since both firms run infrastructure
involving sensitive data, said  David Skillicorn , a computer
science professor at Queen’s University in Kingston, Ont.  “The U.S. government is a BlackBerry customer, and a
number of other pro-western governments are BlackBerry
customers,” he said by phone Oct. 8. “It’s not just the
Canadian government that’s going to want to stick their oar into
this. Other governments are going to be saying, ‘Hang on a
second, we have a stake in this too.’”  More Aggressive  The Canadian approach to information-technology security is
becoming more aggressive since a U.S. congressional committee
warned of the risks of using equipment sold by Chinese phone-equipment makers Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp. in
October 2012, Skillicorn said.  The U.S. House Intelligence committee said ZTE and Huawei,
 China ’s biggest phone-equipment maker, provide opportunities for
Chinese intelligence to tamper with U.S. telecommunications
networks for spying. Huawei denied the allegation at the time
and ZTE said the committee’s conclusions were unconvincing.  Canada is considering new rules for foreign wireless
suppliers it deems security risks, a person familiar with the
discussions said in March. Huawei supplies Canadian carriers
such as  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and Telus Corp. A Huawei spokesman said at the
time the company takes steps to assure network security, while
BCE said it maintains the highest level of security and Telus
declined to comment.  Consolidating Technology  Companies interested in bidding on contracts to help manage
government data centers must submit a list of suppliers of their
products and services, according to a July presentation by
Shared Services Canada, a federal agency that is consolidating
government information technology. Companies must also agree to
be audited throughout the contract period, according to the
presentation.  Communications Security Establishment Canada is working
with Shared Services Canada to reduce the risks of online
threats and will assist with the “pedigree analysis” of
supply-chain information submitted by bidders, according to the
presentation.  CSEC chief John Forster said in a speech yesterday the
agency is working to ensure security considerations are
“embedded” in the government’s contracting process.  Signals Intelligence  CSEC, a World War II-era signals-intelligence agency
founded to break enemy code, is monitoring security for the
government. CSEC and the U.S. National Security Agency spied on
 Brazil ’s Mines and Energy Ministry, Globo TV reported this week,
citing documents leaked by fugitive security analyst Edward Snowden. CSEC’s Forster declined to comment yesterday.  In acquisitions involving potentially “sensitive” sectors
of the technology industry, foreign investors may need to seek
the advice of former security and intelligence officials to
gauge the risk of the deal being blocked, said Sandy Walker, co-head of competition and foreign-investment practice at the
Toronto office of law firm Dentons  Canada  LLP.  Industry Minister Moore “may want to have Allstream
relaunched as a more viable, interesting company in the
marketplace,” said SeaBoard Group’s Grant, referring to the
government’s push to open the wireless industry to more
competition. “As soon as someone from National Defence puts
their hands up, a hush falls over the room.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  