-- SFX Falls as TomorrowWorld Producer Raises $260 Million
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-10-09T22:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/sfx-raises-260-million-in-ipo-pricing-shares-at-top-of-range.html
SFX Entertainment Inc. (SFXE) , the producer
of electronic-music festivals including TomorrowWorld, declined
almost 9 percent in its debut after raising $260 million in its
U.S. initial public offering.  SFX sold 20 million shares for $13 each, according to a
statement yesterday, after offering 16.7 million shares for $11
to $13. They fell $1.11 to $11.89 at the close in New York. The
stock is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol
SFXE.  “The decline in the stock price is surprising given that
the underwriters and company priced at the high end of the
range,”  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries, said
by e-mail.  The IPO will help New York-based SFX compete with  Live
Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , the world’s biggest concert promoter,
as SFX uses the proceeds to complete four acquisitions. Shares
of Live Nation, which itself has purchased several electronic-music festival organizers over the past 12 months, doubled this
year as summer concerts boosted sales.  SFX Chief Executive Officer Robert Sillerman is no stranger
to the concert industry. During the 1990s, he spent $1.2 billion
to make SFX Entertainment the largest U.S. concert promoter,
eventually selling the business to Clear Channel Entertainment
in 2000 for $4.4 billion. Clear Channel split off its concert
business in 2005 as Live Nation.  That past success won’t make investors cut the company any
slack when it comes to executing on its plans, Sillerman said in
an interview on Bloomberg TV.  “Investors are much less interested in what you used to do
than what you are going to do,” said Sillerman, who is
recovering from throat surgery and spoke with a raspy voice.  ID&T, Totem  At CKX Inc., Sillerman acquired  Simon Fuller ’s 19
Entertainment to gain access to the TV producer’s rights to
“ American Idol .” He also acquired rights to  Elvis Presley ’s
estate and the Graceland mansion in  Memphis ,  Tennessee .  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  acquired CKX in 2011 for $500.6 million,
renaming it CORE Media Group Inc.  Sillerman will hold about a 47 percent stake in SFX after
the offering excluding an overallotment, according to the
original terms of the prospectus.  SFX will use proceeds from the IPO to complete its
purchases of ID&T Business; I-Motion GmbH Events &
Communication, a German electronic-music event producer; Totem
Onelove Group, an Australian festival producer; and a 70 percent
stake in Made Event LLC, which produces Electronic Zoo in  New
York .  Dance Music  Sales at SFX jumped to $37.6 million in six months through
June from $378,000 in the year-earlier period, mostly from
events that SFX produced, promoted or managed, according to the
filing. At the $13 IPO price, SFX has a market value of about
$1.05 billion, based on the terms of the offering.  While the company’s festivals rely on younger customers to
buy tickets, electronic dance music isn’t a fad, Sillerman said.
There already 23 separate sub-genres, all with dedicated fan
bases, he said.  “Just as someone was a fan of the Allman Brothers wouldn’t
go see U2, neither would a fan of trance go see dubstep
exclusively,” Sillerman said.  UBS AG, Jefferies Group LLC and Deutsche Bank AG led SFX’s
IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  