-- Shunfeng Photovoltaic Rises on Suntech Unit Bid: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-09T04:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/shunfeng-photovoltaic-rises-on-suntech-unit-bid-hong-kong-mover.html
Shunfeng Photovoltaic International
Ltd. (1165) , a Chinese solar-cell maker, surged to the highest price in
 Hong Kong  since its initial public offering in July 2011 after
bidding for the main unit of  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)   The stock jumped as much as 20 percent, the most since
March 12, to a record HK$3.95 and traded at HK$3.83 as of 10:46
a.m. local time. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.7 percent.  Unit Jiangsu Shunfeng Photovoltaic Technology Co. made a
bid to acquire stock in Wuxi Suntech Power Co., which makes
solar cells and panels, according to a statement to the Hong
Kong stock exchange. Shunfeng has paid a deposit of 500 million
 yuan  ($82 million) to the administrator of Wuxi Suntech, which
is refundable should the bid fail.  “It’s hard to make profits immediately from manufacturing
solar panels, thus the purchase may be part of a long-term plan
to use the products in future for the company’s own power
projects,” Wang Xiaoting, a Beijing-based analyst of Bloomberg
New Energy Finance, said today by phone. “The oversupply is
expected to be eliminated in the second half of 2014 at the
earliest.”  Shunfeng Photovoltaic has been actively buying solar energy
assets this year. The company said in July it will take a 95
percent stake in Hareon Solar Technology Co.’s solar farms
generating a combined 479 megawatts. Later that month, it agreed
to purchase a total of 110 megawatts of projects from Jetion
Solar (China) Co. and Haiwei (Xinjiang) New Energy Co.  Wuxi Suntech said it has 10.7 billion yuan of debt, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported on Aug. 14, citing Yang
Erguan, a representative at its insolvency and restructuring
administrator group.  Shunfeng said it plans to fund the acquisition by raising
debt or capital or by forming a joint venture or partnership. It
may also use its own resources or a combination of all the
options.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  