-- Siemens Forms $1 Billion Tie-Up to Boost Gas Services
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-09T07:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/siemens-forms-1-billion-tie-up-to-boost-gas-services.html
Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest
engineering company, formed a $1 billion joint-venture with  John
Wood Group Plc (WG/)  to expand gas-turbine service offerings.  Aberdeen, Scotland-based Wood Group will have a 51 percent
stake in the venture, which comprises its maintenance and power
solutions businesses and Siemens’s TurboCare gas- and steam-turbine design, repair and manufacturing unit.  “The joint venture with Siemens will bring together two
complementary businesses and create a differentiated service
offering for a global customer base,” Wood Group Chief
Excecutive Officer Bob Keiller said in a statement today.  Siemens, which in August replaced CEO   Peter Loescher  with
finance chief Joe Kaeser after a series of missed profit goals,
has been seeking to expand its offerings in the oil and gas
segments. Loescher told Bloomberg in May that the Munich-based
company was looking to make bolt-on acquisitions in the sector.
Siemens has been evaluating a bid for turbine and compressor
maker  Dresser-Rand Group Inc. (DRC)  for as much as two years, people
familiar with the situation told Bloomberg the same month.  The relevant units of Siemens and Wood Group have combined
assets of $1 billion, of which $428 million comes from Siemens,
and some 4,500 employees. The Wood Group division had pretax
profit of $16.5 million in 2012, while the Siemens TurboCare
reported profit on that basis of $20.8 million.  The deal, which the companies predict to be completed in
the first quarter of 2014, includes a $70 million payment to the
Wood Group by the joint venture for its 49 percent stake in Wood
Group Pratt and Whitney, the turbine spare parts and technical
support provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  