-- Siemens Consortium Gets Right to Bid for $7 Billion Army Deals
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-09T16:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/siemens-consortium-gets-right-to-bid-for-7-billion-army-deals.html
A consortium of  Siemens AG (SIE) , Bechtel
Group Inc. and  AECOM Technology Corp. (ACM)  won permission to bid for
$7 billion in contracts to build  renewable energy  installations
for the U.S. Army that could span a decade.  The group has the right to bid for contracts in geothermal,
solar, wind and biomass technologies projects, Munich-based
Siemens said in a statement. After an initial three-year period,
the contracts could be renewed on an annual basis for up to
seven years.  The Siemens-led consortium will help “accomplish the
Army’s goals of increasing their use of renewable energy,
enhancing infrastructure resilience and  energy security , while
decresing energy costs,” Judy Marks, the head of Siemens’s
government technologies division, said in the statement.  Siemens has increased its U.S. lobbying spending in recent
years to expand in competitor  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s home
market. Europe’s largest engineering company spent $170,000 on
campaign contributions last year, compared with $96,000 four
years earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Government, and has made high-profile hires to improve its
access to power brokers.  Stanley McChrystal, the former commander of NATO forces in
Afghanistan, was hired as the chairman of Siemens Government
Technologies soon after it was set up in 2011, while former
Michelle Obama aide Camille Johnston heads Siemens’s lobbying
operations in the U.S.  Renewable Energy  The Defense Department is seeking to buy or produce at
least a quarter of the energy it consumes from renewable
resources by 2025. The Obama administration has pushed for
alternative energy to reduce the nation’s oil imports from the
 Middle East .  The Pentagon wants to generate 3 gigawatts of is energy
from renewable sources by 2025, with the Army contributing one-third of that total. The Siemens-led group was the only bidder
to win approval from the army for all four sectors of the
program: geothermal, solar, wind and biomass energy, according
to the company.  The Army awarded 22 companies, including Spain’s  Acciona
SA (ANA) , the right to bid for solar contracts, 17 the right to bid
for wind projects, 13 the right to bid for biomass deals and
five companies access to geothermal contracts, according to the
government’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  