-- Sinclair Losing Belo Leaves Gray as Deal Option: Real M&A
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-10-10T14:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/sinclair-seen-weighing-gray-takeover-after-losing-belo-real-m-a.html
Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc. (SBGI)  tried
and failed to steal  Belo Corp. (BLC)  from the clutches of Gannett Co.,
leaving Gray Television Inc. and Lin LLC as targets for the
largest U.S. TV station owner.  Sinclair twice tried to top Gannett’s offer for Belo in the
days before the shareholder vote, said people familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be named because the process was
private. Sinclair first sought to assemble a deal with various
Belo shareholders, and then attempted to put together an offer
with private-equity firm CVC Capital Partners Ltd., the people
said. Neither effort led to a bid, they said, and Belo
shareholders approved Gannett’s $1.5 billion offer on Sept. 25.  After missing out on Belo’s 20 TV stations,  Hunt Valley ,
Maryland-based Sinclair may have to settle for alternatives.
Gray, Lin and Raycom Media Inc. may be potential targets, said
 Paul Sweeney , a Bloomberg Industries analyst. In two years,
Sinclair has announced $2.8 billion of deals as stations
negotiate higher fees from cable systems. U.S. TV and broadcast
deals have reached $8.7 billion this year, the most since 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sinclair was “one of the first in this wave of
consolidation, and they’ve been pretty aggressive,” Barry Lucas, senior vice president of research at Rye, New York-based
Gabelli & Co., said in a phone interview. “There’s enough
fertile ground out there that Sinclair could find additional
opportunity.”  Gabelli’s affiliate Gamco Investors Inc., which manages
about $40 billion, holds stakes in Sinclair, Belo, Lin and  Gray. (GTN)   Takeover Effort  Sinclair Chief Financial Officer David Amy contacted large
Belo  shareholders , mostly hedge funds and arbitrage funds, on
Sept. 19 to buy their Belo shares or to partner with them as
part of the takeover effort, said one of the people. The Belo
holders had for several weeks pressed to find another buyer
willing to make a higher bid, and an offer was close to being
arranged, said this person. The effort fell apart when one large
Belo shareholder backed out, the person said.  Sinclair then tried to partner with London-based CVC on a
bid that would have valued Belo at $15 a share, two of the
people said, topping Gannett’s bid of $13.75. That arrangement
also fell apart just before Belo investors voted on the Gannett
offer, they said.  Belo was never formally contacted by Sinclair about a bid,
one of the people said.  Belo Acquisition  Sinclair’s Amy declined to comment on whether the company
attempted to put together a competing bid for Belo. Paul Fry, a
spokesman for Belo, declined to comment on the bidding process.
Representatives for CVC and Gannett didn’t immediately respond
to requests for comment.  Gannett investors applauded the Belo takeover, pushing
 Gannett shares  up 34 percent the day of the June 13
announcement. Media General Inc., backed by  Warren Buffett  and
 Mario Gabelli , agreed the same month to a merger with New Young
Broadcasting Holding Co.  On July 1, Tribune Co.said it was buying Local TV Holdings
LLC’s 19 TV stations for $2.73 billion.  Sinclair has also taken part in the industry consolidation,
agreeing to buy TV stations controlled by the Allbritton family
for $985 million in July. During its spending spree in the last
two years, Sinclair’s shares have  risen  more than 300 percent,
giving the company a market value of $3.2 billion. Including
pending deals, Sinclair has 162 TV stations, up from 58 two
years ago.  Consolidation Wave  Sinclair’s active role in the recent consolidation wave
means the company is “absolutely the first stop for any
investment banker shopping TV stations,” Sweeney of Bloomberg
Industries said in a phone interview.  Sinclair’s Amy said in June that low borrowing costs and
rising fees from cable-system operators presented an opportunity
to bulk up. Size matters when station owners negotiate with
larger partners, including pay-TV operators who pay to
rebroadcast local signals to subscribers, and television
networks like CBS Corp. that provide programming and want a
slice of the money.  Stations have also benefited from more political
advertising, rebounding spending on real estate and auto
commercials and cost cuts since the recession.  “Consolidation is obviously a positive strategy because
you gain strength in leverage,” Porter Bibb, managing partner
at Mediatech Capital Partners LLC, a strategic adviser to
individuals and investors in media and technology industries,
said in a phone interview from  New York . “The smaller groups
are definitely going to have to be gobbled up to be able to
survive profitably.”  Lin, Gray  Lin, Gray and Raycom may be among companies that Sinclair
could consider buying all or parts of, Sweeney said. Lin, the
owner of 43 TV stations, has a market value of $1.2 billion, and
Gray, which owns and operates TV stations in 30 markets, is
valued at $432 million. Since Gannett announced the acquisition
of Belo, Gray has climbed 38 percent and Lin  surged  88 percent
as investors anticipated the wave of mergers would continue.
Raycom is controlled by its employees and owns or provides
services for  53 stations .  “If those portfolios fit from a geographic perspective, I
think they would certainly look at it,” Sweeney said.  Gray rose 3 percent yesterday, while Lin fell 1.3 percent.
Today, Gray climbed 2.9 percent to $7.71 at 9:58 a.m. New York
time, and Lin added 3.2 percent to $22.37.  Hilton Howell, chief executive officer of Gray, said the
company doesn’t comment on takeover speculation. Representatives
for Lin and Raycom didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment about whether they’ve been approached about a deal or
would consider selling.  ‘Critical Mass’  While the company may have found some of the TV station
owners that went to other buyers attractive, Sinclair has still
played a significant role in the industry’s consolidation and
doesn’t necessarily need more deals, said Lucas of Gabelli.  Analysts  estimate  Sinclair will almost double sales over
the next three years to more than $2 billion. That growth will
outpace the expansion at all but one other U.S. local media
company valued at more than $500 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s important for affiliate group broadcasters to have
critical mass,” Lucas said in a phone interview. “Sinclair
does now, but bigger appears to be better in terms of any
negotiations. Given their size and scale, they can certainly be
selective and opportunistic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  