-- South Africa’s Rand Gains for Second Day on Yellen Nomination
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-10-09T07:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/south-africa-s-rand-gains-for-second-day-on-yellen-nomination.html
The rand gained for a second day on
speculation that  Janet Yellen , the nominee for chairman of the
 Federal Reserve , will maintain monetary stimulus that has fueled
appetite for emerging-market bonds and stocks.  Yellen, 67, would succeed  Ben S. Bernanke , whose term
expires on Jan. 31, putting the world’s most powerful central
bank in the hands of a key architect of its unprecedented
stimulus program. Manufacturing production in South Africa
slowed in August, a report tomorrow may show, limiting the
central bank’s room to raise  interest rates  as inflation
accelerates.  As vice-chairman of the Fed, Yellen “has been a big
supporter of quantitative easing and is seen as a dove,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Risk assets will
welcome her nomination as it signals a high likelihood of
continued easy U.S. monetary policy.”  The rand gained 0.4 percent to 9.9537 per dollar as of 9
a.m. in Johannesburg, the best performance out of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on benchmark 10.5
percent bonds due December 2026 rose one basis points, or 0.01
percentage point, to 8.03 percent.  Yellen supported the Fed’s bond buying programs and was a
driving force behind a strategy adopted in 2012 to commit the
bank to goals on inflation and unemployment. The Fed has said it
will consider curbing its monthly bond purchases if the economy
meets growth targets. Minutes of its meeting last month, where
Bernanke maintained the $85 billion monthly stimulus, will be
released after the close of South African markets today.  Manufacturing growth in Africa’s biggest economy slowed to
an annual 1.2 percent in August from 5.4 percent in July,
according to the median  estimate  of 11 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. The data will be released at 1 p.m. tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  