-- Starbucks Giving Away Coffee in Push for Shutdown Deal
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/starbucks-giving-away-coffee-in-push-for-shutdown-deal.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest
coffee-shop operator, is giving away cups of joe to encourage
the U.S. government to reach a solution to the shutdown and
pending debt crisis.  Starbucks customers who buy someone else their favorite
drink will receive a free tall brewed coffee starting today
through Oct. 11, Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz , 60,
said in an e-mailed letter to Starbucks store and corporate
employees.  “It’s that simple -- ‘pay it forward,’ and Starbucks will
pay you back,” he said. “This is a different yet authentic way
Starbucks can help our fellow citizens to come together by
supporting one another during a particularly challenging time.”  The partial shutdown, which started Oct. 1, has shuttered
government services and furloughed federal employees. Some
functions, such as mail delivery, are continuing. Republicans
are insisting on changing the 2010 Affordable Care Act, while
President  Barack Obama  refuses to engage in discussions about
tying policy conditions to opening the government or raising the
debt limit.  “The U.S. federal government shutdown, the pending debt
and default crisis, waning  consumer confidence  and the general
sense of unease these and other events have instilled in the
minds of so many have created another period of uncertainty in
our country,” Schultz said.  The Starbucks CEO has spoken out on political issues in the
past. In 2011, Schultz urged Obama and Congress to overcome
party divisions to find solutions to the U.S. budget deficit and
unemployment. He also enlisted business leaders and fellow CEOs,
including  Tim Armstrong  and Walter Robb, in a pledge to boycott
campaign donations until Congress put the nation’s finances in
order.  Starbucks has about 11,200 stores in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  