-- Sugar Low Is $300 Million Aid Headache for U.S. Taxpayers
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-10-09T19:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/sugar-causes-300-million-aid-headache-for-taxpayers-correct-.html
Federal aid to U.S. sugar growers has
helped spur near-record domestic production just as a free trade
deal is encouraging a flood of Mexican imports -- triggering
emergency measures that may cost taxpayers $300 million.  Domestic sugar producers have long been protected by
federal programs that help establish a price floor, as well as
quotas to limit imports from outside  North America . Prices
declined sharply anyway this year, showing that the government’s
strategies haven’t stemmed losses from overproduction, both
supporters and critics say.  Since June, the glut led the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
to buy sweetener to prop up prices, sell it at a loss to
biofuels producers and take steps to reduce imports. The efforts
have barely dented the surplus.  “The government is still supporting growers to produce
more sugar than we actually consume,” Arthur Liming, a Chicago-based futures specialist at Citigroup Inc. said in a telephone
interview.  The total cost to the government of subsidizing the sugar
industry for this year’s crops may be between $200 million and
$300 million, according to Tom Earley, an economist with
 Agralytica , a food and agriculture consulting firm based in
Alexandria, Virginia.  Manipulated Market  “The way the sugar program manipulates the market is the
cause” of the oversupply, Jennifer Cummings, a spokeswoman for
the Coalition for Sugar Reform, a Washington-based group that
includes the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the American Bakers
Association and the  National Association of Manufacturers , said
in a telephone interview. “The USDA is doing the best it can to
manage this, but the taxpayer costs are only going to rise.”  That estimate includes forfeitures already made,
anticipated future losses, and the cost of other government
efforts including direct sweetener purchases and losses from
sugar-to-ethanol sales.  While Americans are  eating the most sugar  since the 1970s,
that’s still not enough to absorb increasing supply. Sugar-beet
harvests expanded almost twice as fast as demand in the past
four years, and the cane crop in the year ended Sept. 30 was the
biggest since 2004. The 2013 crop is forecast to total 9.015
million tons, just short of the all-time high, according to the
USDA. Sugar beets, grown in northern states, may reach a record,
the agency estimates.  Sugar Stockpile  Under the main form of support, the government issues loans
to processors backed by the sugar itself. When prices drop below
a pre-determined point, companies find themselves with sugar
worth less than the value of the outstanding loan. Federal law
lets them forfeit the collateral and leave the government with a
mountain of sweetener.  The terms of the program restrict how the government may
get rid of its stockpile: Authorities can sell it for fuel, but
not for  food production , to avoid competing with private
producers.  The USDA has twice this year auctioned it off to ethanol
producers -- hoping to reduce its surplus at the same time it
aids the biofuels industry. Soft demand for sugar-based ethanol,
however, have resulted in losses as the agency sells for less
than the value of the defaulted loans. The most recent round,
announced last week, resulted in a loss of $53.3 million.  The government’s efforts have reduced the losses, though
the record glut remains a challenge, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said. “As time goes on we get a better understanding of
what the surplus is and what the challenges are,” he told
reporters last week.  ‘Dumping Ground’  The oversupply has been building since 2008, when limits on
Mexican sugar were lifted under the  North American Free Trade
Agreement , Earley said in a telephone interview.  Before Nafta, Mexican sugar imports were restricted under a
global quota system that remains in effect for other countries.
The treaty gives Mexico unlimited access to the U.S. while
quotas elsewhere still leaves American sugar at an artificially
high price, making the domestic market attractive to Mexican
sellers, said Earley, who has done analysis for the sugar-reform
coalition.  The USDA has also exchanged part of the inventory it took
from forfeitures for import credits held by refiners who
typically would bring raw sugar from overseas to later re-export
it.  Mexican Production  High prices from 2009 to 2011 encouraged Mexican producers
to expand output and increase shipments to the U.S.  “The  United States  has become the favorite dumping ground
for unneeded, subsidized Mexican sugar -- a significant portion
produced at government-owned factories,” said Judy Sanchez, a
spokeswoman for U.S. Sugar Corp., a Clewiston, Florida-based
processor, in a statement.  Low prices are expected to discourage production in the
coming year. The USDA projects that the sugar crop produced in
the fiscal year that began Oct. 1 will be 3.5 percent smaller
than the previous year.  If that boosts prices, it would allay the government
burden.  Trading Price  Domestic unrefined sugar for May delivery closed at 21.7
cents a pound today on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , above the
roughly 21-cent federal default level. While prices climbed 17
percent from a record low 18.7 cents on July 8, after the USDA
began taking steps to curb the surplus, sugar is down 12 percent
from a year-earlier and 41 percent cheaper than two years ago.  Separate bills in the U.S. House and Senate approved this
year to reauthorize U.S. farm subsidies for the next five years
left the sugar program unchanged. In both chambers, amendments
to roll back subsidies narrowly lost. Congress has yet to give
final approval to a law, which would replace programs that
expired Sept. 30.  “The USDA is not trying to come up with an equilibrium
price,” Liming said. “It’s a political mandate and the point
is to support farmers.”  Ending government buybacks and other steps to control the
sugar market are unlikely to stave off surpluses in the near
future, said Jack Roney, economics director for the Arlington,
Virginia-based American Sugar Alliance, a collection of grower
groups in 16 states.  “The problem isn’t U.S. sugar policy, it’s a flaw in
Nafta,” Roney said. “We’re on the brink of closing some
operations here, and that will cost jobs.”  Any lasting solution to ease the glut will have to come
from the market, not government, Earley said.  “High prices encouraged production, and low prices will
reduce it,” he said. “The free market works, but it’s going to
be painful for some people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  