-- Drug Billionaire Seeks Deals as Rivals Founder: Corporate India
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-10-10T11:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/sun-billionaire-seeking-deals-as-rivals-founder-corporate-india.html
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) ,
 Asia ’s largest generic drugmaker by market value, is seeking to
acquire makers of injectable to oral liquid medicines to help it
exceed industry growth estimates.  The Indian manufacturer of antibiotics to cancer drugs may
also buy producers of branded ophthalmology products, said
billionaire Managing Director Dilip Shanghvi in an interview.
The company this year sought to acquire Swedish drugmaker  Meda
AB (MEDAA) , according to two people familiar with the matter. Sun, which
evaluates three to four acquisition targets every month, isn’t
close to announcing any deal, Shanghvi said.  The billionaire’s strategy to build on his streak of 11
deals since 2001 may help Sun achieve its goal of expanding in
 Europe  and  Japan  and increasing sales in the U.S., the company’s
biggest market. The drugmaker, which reported the industry’s
widest  earnings margin  in the 12 months to June 30, is seeking
purchases at a time when Indian rivals including Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. and  Wockhardt Ltd. (WPL)  are struggling to address
the U.S. regulator’s warnings on manufacturing practices.  “My objective will be to find a way to grow the business
faster than the competition,” Shanghvi said. “We are focused
on identifying products which will allow us to operate in
limited competition markets.”  The company, which acquired a stake in  Israel ’s  Taro
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TARO)  in 2007, is open to borrowing
overseas to fund any purchase, and may sell shares “if it’s a
very large acquisition,” Shanghvi said.  Growth Target  Sun is seeking “some products that we don’t have, or
technologies that we don’t have,” Shanghvi said. He’s targeting
18 percent to 20 percent growth for the year ending March 31.  Shanghvi’s purchase of Taro helped Sun boost its share of
 U.S. revenue  to 54 percent of group sales and resulted in Taro
returning to profit in 2007. Shanghvi, who ended his effort to
buy the rest of Taro earlier this year, said he has no plan to
attempt to increase the stake for now.  Sun had 320 drugs approved for sale in the U.S., and had
another 133 product applications, known as Abbreviated New Drug
Applications or ANDAs, pending with the U.S. Food & Drug
Administration at the end of June, Shanghvi said in a call with
analysts on Aug. 9. Generic drugmakers have to file an
application for each drug they seek to manufacture for the U.S.  Solid Growth  While Sun has expanded its U.S. generics business, “it
still represents a very small share of the total U.S. generic
sales,” said Igor Krutov, a New York-based analyst with
Vontobel Asset Management Inc., which manages $28.6 billion in
emerging market assets. “Judging by the pipeline of ANDAs
pending approval, we expect solid growth for the foreseeable
future.”  Sun has risen 49 percent in the past six months, making it
the best performing stock after  Lupin Ltd. (LPC)  in the 26-company
Bloomberg Asia Pacific Pharmaceuticals Index. That helped
Shanghvi boost his wealth by $5 billion, the most among India’s
rich this year, to $14.2 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index.  The drugmaker’s  shares  fell 0.9 percent to 639.55 rupees in
Mumbai after rising to a record yesterday. The stock trades at
21 times its 2015  earnings  forecasts, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with 12 times earnings for Ranbaxy
and 7 times for  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s
largest maker of generic drugs.  “Sun Pharma has been a long-time holding of ours,” said
Vontobel’s Krutov. The price to earnings multiple “is
justified, in our view, given the expected future earnings per
share growth and the quality of Sun’s management.”  FDA Standards  Shanghvi, who started Sun in 1983 selling drugs to treat
psychiatric ailments, will need to ensure his factories meet FDA
standards.  The U.S. regulator during an inspection at Wockhardt’s
factory found soiled uniforms and mold growing in a raw-material
storage area of the company’s plant producing copies of the
heart tablet Toprol-XL. The FDA summarized their findings in a
filing obtained by Bloomberg via a Freedom of Information Act
request.  The FDA has filed reports on at least four Indian
facilities in the past six months and curbed exports at two
drugmakers, including  Ranbaxy (RBXY) , the country’s largest. Products
from two other Ranbaxy plants were prohibited from export to the
U.S. in 2008 because of quality control issues that were part of
fraud allegations, which the company agreed to settle in May for
$500 million.  Drug Inspections  Wockhardt has hired consultants and is working on a better
compliance system to address FDA findings, it said in a response
to questions e-mailed by the public-relations firm Ketchum
Sampark. Ranbaxy will continue to cooperate with the FDA and
“take all necessary steps to resolve the concerns at the
earliest,” it said in a statement on Sept. 17  U.S. regulators are stepping up efforts to monitor the
safety of medicines flowing into the country. The number of drug
inspections in  India  has more than doubled in the past five
years. The agency ran 195 checks last year, up from 13 in 2000,
according to data supplied by the regulator.  Sun has been inspected seven to eight times by the FDA in
the past year with no major observations, Shanghvi said. The FDA
last year allowed Sun to import unapproved batches of the
generic version of Johnson & Johnson’s cancer drug Doxil to
address a shortage.  Doxil Shortage  J&J has said there may be yearlong shortage of the medicine
after manufacturing disruptions at one of its supplier’s plants
culminated with the facility, Ben Venue Laboratories Inc.,
calling a halt to drug production by the end of the year. The
injectable treatment for ovarian cancer generated $402 million
of sales for J&J in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sun Pharma has the capacity to meet additional demand for
the drug, Shanghvi said. His concern was the market for the drug
may shrink if J&J decides not to market the product.  “This is the first time we are encountering a situation
where we are the only product in the market and the innovator is
not in the market,” Shanghvi said. The company is evaluating
ways in which it can take over promotion of Doxil or co-market
it with another company, he said.  Shanghvi’s strategy to manufacture difficult-to-produce
drugs paid off with Doxil, said Prakash Agarwal, an analyst at
CIMB Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai.  “They got an accelerated, fast track FDA approval and
they’re monetizing it in a big way,” said Agarwal. “They’re
going to have the entire market now.”  ‘Management Quality’  Sun may generate $113 million of sales from Doxil in the
year ended March 31, contributing 8 percent of the company’s
earnings, according to Hitesh Mahida, an analyst with Fortune
Equity Brokers Ltd. in Mumbai.  Taro’s shares have surged 13 fold since its 2007 low in  New
York  trading. Teva has gained 10 percent in the same period,
while Ranbaxy has more than doubled. Sun’s shares have increased
sevenfold.  “Sun’s management quality and its record of execution give
us a lot of comfort,” said Vontobel’s Krutov. “Sun has managed
to create a lot of value through acquisitions, which is not
common in any industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  