-- U.K. Stocks Decline Amid U.S. Debt-Limit, Budget Impasse
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-10-09T15:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/u-k-stocks-decline-amid-u-s-debt-limit-budget-impasse.html
U.K. stocks  fell for a third day,
extending a three-month low, as U.S. lawmakers continued to
wrangle over raising the government’s debt limit before next
week’s deadline and a spending measure to end a shutdown.  Vedanta Resources Plc tumbled to a three-month low after
reporting a decline in copper output in Zambia. N Brown Group
Plc dropped 5.1 percent after first-half profit missed
estimates. Persimmon Plc and Barratt Developments Plc rallied at
least 3.5 percent each after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it
expects a strong recovery in the U.K. housing market.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  retreated 27.92 points, or 0.4 percent,
to 6,337.91 at the close in London, as U.S. President  Barack
Obama  picked Janet Yellen to head the  Federal Reserve . The
equity benchmark  has decreased  4.3 percent from a high on Sept.
19. The broader FTSE All-Share Index also lost 0.4 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index fell 0.7 percent.  “I’m surprised by the lack of pragmatism displayed by U.S.
politicians,” said Espen Furnes, who helps oversee $75 billion
as  fund manager  at Storebrand Asset Management in Oslo. “The
fact that they’re willing to let the  U.S. economy  and indeed the
U.S. citizens suffer from the need to make political statements
is hard to grasp and a bit scary. The Yellen nomination takes
away some worries about who will be named and gives more clarity
on future Fed policy.”  Tesco Plc, Aviva Plc and five other companies traded
without the rights to their latest dividend today, shaving off
3.7 points from the FTSE 100.  Shutdown Continues  Republicans and Democrats remained divided on the terms of
an emergency budget and raising the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling
even as a partial U.S. government shutdown entered its ninth
day. The closure has placed thousands of federal employees on
unpaid leave and led to the suspension of some services.  Obama said yesterday the world’s largest economy risks a
recession if Congress fails to raise the debt limit. He said he
is willing to talk to Republicans on changes to his health-care
act after lawmakers unconditionally raise the ceiling and agree
on a budget to end the shutdown. Republican Speaker  John Boehner 
has said the House can’t pass a bill to increase the limit
without conditions.  The Treasury has said it will exhaust measures to avoid
breaching the debt limit on Oct. 17. If that happens, the U.S.
will run out of money to pay all of its bills at some point
between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  Obama will today nominate  Janet Yellen  to replace  Ben S.
Bernanke  as the next Fed chairman, a White House official said
in an e-mailed statement. Yellen is now the vice chairman of the
Fed.  Zambian Copper  Vedanta tumbled 4.7 percent to 1,020 pence, its lowest
price since July 8. The India-focused metal and oil producer
said copper production in Zambia fell 26 percent in the fiscal
second quarter because of a suspension of mining operations.
Vedanta also said iron-ore mining in the states of Goa and
Karnataka remained suspended.  Separately, Morgan Stanley cut its rating on the shares to
underweight, similar to sell, from equal-weight, saying the
company’s Konkola unit is trading at an unwarranted premium to
its global peers.  N Brown Group Plc tumbled 5.1 percent to 489 pence, the
biggest drop since December 2011, after reporting first-half
pretax profit excluding some items of 45 million pounds ($72
million), trailing the 45.5 million-pound median estimate of
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Overall gross margin fell by 80
basis points to 52.5 percent because of an increase in bad
debts, the retailer said in a statement.  Housing Market  Persimmon, the U.K.’s biggest homebuilder by market value,
advanced 5 percent to 1,131 pence and Barratt climbed 3.6
percent to 320 pence.  “Lead indicators in the U.K. housing market point towards
a strong rebound following five years of depressed activity
levels,” Goldman Sachs analysts Raghav Bardalai and Eshan
Toorabally wrote in a note. “We expect the ‘Help to Buy’ scheme
to stimulate market transactions,” they wrote, referring to the
British government’s equity-loan plan.  Crest Nicholson Holdings Plc gained 4.2 percent to 343.5
pence as Goldman Sachs started coverage of the homebuilder with
a buy recommendation.  Greggs Plc added 2.6 percent to 438.4 pence after the
U.K.’s biggest bakery chain said a decline in same-store sales
slowed to 0.5 percent in the third quarter, compared with a drop
of 2.9 percent in the first half.  The volume of shares changing hands in FTSE 100-listed
companies today was 10 percent lower than the daily average in
the past 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  