-- U.S. Default Poses Low Risk to Money Funds, Fitch Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-10-09T21:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/u-s-default-poses-low-risk-to-money-market-funds-fitch-says.html
Money-market mutual funds can cope
with a short-term default in U.S. Treasuries as long as it
doesn’t trigger the kind of investor run that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, according to
 Fitch Ratings .  The funds have reduced their holdings of Treasuries that
would be most immediately affected by the failure of the U.S. to
extend its borrowing capacity, and have high levels of short-term liquidity, the ratings company said today in a report and
in an interview. Fund managers wouldn’t be forced to sell
Treasuries in the event of a default and would be free to
continue buying non-defaulted Treasuries, said Roger Merritt,
managing director of fund and asset management at Fitch.  “Mark-to-market declines on U.S. government exposures are
probably manageable assuming any default is short-lived and
absent significant redemption activity,” according to the
report, which Merritt wrote with two colleagues.  Money-market funds give millions of households, companies
and other institutions a safe parking spot for cash and channel
$2.5 trillion to issuers of short-term debt including the U.S.
government, financial institutions and companies. A run on funds
that hold corporate debt after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers 
in September 2008 helped freeze global credit markets.  Assets Decline  U.S. money funds held about $475 billion in Treasury
securities as of Aug. 31, and an additional $156 billion in
 repurchase agreements  collateralized by Treasuries, according to
research firm Crane Data LLC in Westborough,  Massachusetts .
Crane Data estimates that about $74 billion in Treasuries held
by money funds matures from Oct. 24 to Nov. 15.  Assets in U.S. money funds declined by $9.4 billion, or
about 0.4 percent, in the seven days through yesterday as
clients pulled money, according to data compiled by research
firm iMoneyNet, also based in Westborough. Institutional funds
that focus almost exclusively on debt backed by the U.S.
government dropped $14.4 billion, or 2 percent of assets.  Money-fund assets can be influenced not only by market
conditions but also by corporate deadlines, such as those for
making payroll or paying taxes.  ‘Simple’ Lesson  Republican lawmakers in  Washington  have refused to approve
new funding for the U.S. government, triggering a partial
shutdown of operations since Oct. 1. They have also vowed not to
approve an increase in the government’s debt limit unless
President  Barack Obama  and his  Democratic Party  agree to change
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, known as
Obamacare. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has said
“extraordinary measures” to avoid breaching the debt limit
will be exhausted no later than Oct. 17.  Paul Schott Stevens, president of the  Investment Company
Institute , a Washington-based trade group representing mutual-fund companies, urged Congress to resolve the standoff before a
default in the text of testimony he plans to deliver tomorrow to
the Senate Banking Committee.  “Once Treasury has exercised the option to delay payments,
investors will learn a lesson that cannot and will not be
unlearned -- even after all missed or delayed payments have been
made good,” Stevens said. “That lesson is simple:  Treasury
securities  are no longer as good as cash.”  Stevens said funds regulated by the Investment Company Act
of 1940 hold $1.7 trillion in securities issued by the Treasury
and U.S. government agencies.  Switching Maturities  Most fund managers, Fitch’s Merritt said, have been working
to boost the level of assets that can be quickly turned into
cash and handed back to clients who wish to withdraw. Fitch-rated funds that are eligible to purchase corporate debt held an
average 26 percent in assets maturing in one week or sooner,
excluding Treasuries, the firm said.  Managers are also moving out of Treasuries most susceptible
to a default, Merritt said.  “We have avoided maturities in the time period toward the
end of October,” Nancy Prior, head of money funds at Boston-based Fidelity Investments, said in an interview. Fidelity is
the largest manager of U.S. money funds with $427 billion in
assets as of Aug. 31, according to Crane Data.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., said he is doing the opposite of Fidelity.  “Fidelity sells, Pimco buys,” Gross said today in a
television interview on CNBC.  Pimco doesn’t believe the Treasury will default, he said.  Money-fund managers would be the most compelled among
owners of Treasuries to sell in the event of a default,
according to two-thirds of respondents to a survey conducted
Oct. 7 to Oct. 9 by Citigroup Inc. About 40 percent said they
expect central banks, money managers and insurance companies to
face pressure to sell.  In today’s trading, Treasuries fell and rates surged on
bills maturing on the Oct. 17 deadline projected for when the
U.S. reaches its borrowing capacity as investors avoided the
securities with the risk of default rising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  