-- U.S. Can’t Delay NSA Surveillance Suit Due to Shutdown
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-10-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/u-s-can-t-delay-nsa-surveillance-suit-due-to-shutdown.html
The Obama administration must
respond next month to allegations that the National Security
Agency surveillance program is unconstitutional after a judge
refused a U.S. request to postpone a lawsuit because of the
federal shutdown.  U.S. District Judge  Jeffrey White  in San Francisco
yesterday denied the Justice Department’s motion to delay
deadlines for it to respond to a case challenging the
surveillance program. A Nov. 1 deadline to submit a case
management statement, a Nov. 8 hearing and a Nov. 12 deadline
for responding to the complaint remain in place, White said in
an order without giving a reason.  The Electronic Frontier Foundation alleged in a lawsuit
filed July 16 that the intelligence program partly disclosed by
ex-government security contractor Edward Snowden is
unconstitutional and illegally erodes free speech rights of
religious, environmental and human rights groups.  Marcia Berman, senior trial counsel at the Justice
Department, asked the judge to put the case on hold, saying
employees of the agency and the NSA “are prohibited from
working, even on a voluntary basis, except in very limited
circumstances” such as emergencies involving the safety of
human lives, according to a court filing.  EFF, a San Francisco-based privacy rights group, said the
government continues the bulk collection of telephone calling
records of millions of Americans and a secret Washington-based
court that handles NSA surveillance requests remains open
despite the lack of appropriations.  Bulk Collection  An order to continue the bulk collection is set to expire
on or about Oct. 17 and the  Justice Department  continues to
prepare an application to renew the order, EFF attorneys said in
court filings, citing a Sept. 30 Justice Department contingency
plan.  “If it is essential that the spying continue despite the
lack of appropriations, then it is equally essential that the
question of whether the spying is lawful also go forward,”
Richard Wiebe, an EFF attorney, said in a court filing objecting
to the postponement. “The rule of law, and the protection of
the civil liberties guaranteed by the Constitution, are every
bit as essential to the preservation of American democracy as
are the NSA’s spying activities.”  The case is First Unitarian Church of  Los Angeles  v.
National Security Agency, 13-cv-03287, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  