-- U.S. Cuts Military Aid to Egypt, Seeks Move to Democracy
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-09T22:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/u-s-suspends-cash-and-equipment-assistance-to-egyptian-military.html
The U.S. said it will cut military
aid to  Egypt  until the army-backed government takes steps toward
restoring democracy after the overthrow of President Mohamed Mursi and a crackdown on his Islamist supporters.  The delivery of large military equipment and cash
assistance to the Egyptian government will halt “pending
credible progress toward an inclusive, democratically elected
civilian government,” State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki
said in a statement.  U.S. officials briefing reporters on condition of anonymity
said $260 million in cash aid will be withheld, as well as
deliveries of F-16 fighter jets, helicopters and tanks.  President  Barack Obama  said in August that the U.S. would
“reassess” assistance to Egypt, an ally for more than three
decades that receives about $1.3 billion of annual military aid,
after the army ousted Mursi in July. Since then, a crackdown by
security forces on his Islamist supporters has left more than
1,000 dead and several leaders of the ex-president’s Muslim
Brotherhood detained.  U.S. law requires suspension of aid to countries where the
government is deposed in a coup d’etat. Obama’s administration
so far has declined to label Mursi’s overthrow as a coup. U.S.
officials who briefed reporters said the aid cutoff won’t be
permanent. Egypt’s government has said it expects to hold
parliamentary elections in the first quarter of next year, to be
followed by a presidential vote.  Holding Deliveries  The U.S. had already announced in July that it was holding
back delivery of four  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16s. Four more
were scheduled for delivery in December under a contract for 20
aircraft.  During its reassessment of Egypt policy, the U.S. also has
been holding up delivery of 10 AH-64 Apache helicopters
manufactured by  Boeing Co. (BA)  Military sales also include four kits
a month to build M1A1 battle tanks under a contract for 125 kits
from  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   The U.S. will continue to provide support that “directly
benefits the Egyptian people” in areas such as health,
education and private-sector development, Psaki said.  Assistance for counterterrorism, securing Egypt’s borders,
and maintaining security in the Sinai also will continue, Psaki
said. Those are important issues for  Israel , the closest U.S.
ally in the  Middle East .  ‘Politically Difficult’  Military aid to Egypt dates to the Camp David accords
negotiated in 1978, a U.S. initiative in which Egypt broke away
from Arab allies to sign a separate peace with Israel, which it
has since maintained. Egypt has collaborated with Israel to
impose restrictions on the Hamas-ruled  Gaza Strip .  “It could potentially become more politically difficult in
the absence of U.S. assistance to the military to maintain this
very close working relationship with the Israelis,”  David Schenker , director of the Arab politics program at the
 Washington  Institute for Near East Policy, said in a telephone
interview.  Egypt has been mired in political instability since the
uprising against  Hosni Mubarak , a longtime U.S. and Israeli
ally, in 2011. Violence has escalated since the army takeover in
July. Last weekend it flared again as dozens of Islamist
protesters were killed at rallies, while a series of attacks on
security posts left several policemen and soldiers dead.  Gulf Assistance  Since Mursi’s ouster, the military-backed government has
received pledges of at least $12 billion in aid from Persian
Gulf countries that oppose the Brotherhood, reducing the
importance of financial support from the West. Egypt says it no
longer needs International Monetary Fund loans.  Aaron David Miller , a vice president at the Wilson
International Center for Scholars in Washington and a Middle
East adviser to several U.S. administrations, said military aid
hasn’t been increasing U.S. influence in Egypt.  “The fact is, we have no significant influence over the
military with aid or without it,” Miller said in an e-mail.
“Suspending assistance to make a point that we’re unhappy with
the generals’ crackdown against the Islamists won’t change their
behavior,” he said. “And keeping aid going to make a
difference in pushing them to democratize won’t matter much
either.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bob Drummond at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  