-- U.S. Intelligence Agencies Start Recall of Key Civilians
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2013-10-09T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/u-s-intelligence-agencies-start-recall-of-key-civilians.html
The Central Intelligence Agency today
will begin recalling civilian workers needed to carry out the
spy agency’s core missions, CIA Director  John Brennan  told
agency employees.  “I have made this decision because of the potential
adverse cumulative and unseen impact on our national security
from the now week-long furloughing of a significant portion of
the CIA workforce, as keeping our staffing at the dramatically
reduced levels of the past week would pose a threat to the
safety of human life and the protection of property,” Brennan
said in a  message  yesterday to agency employees.  Not all CIA civilian employees will return to work, Brennan
said in his e-mail, only those “necessary to carry out CIA’s
core missions of foreign intelligence collection, all-source
analysis, covert action, and counterintelligence.”  Director of National Intelligence James Clapper has
authorized a similar recall in his office, as well as at the
National Counterterrorism Center, the National
Counterproliferation Center, the Office of the National
Counterintelligence Executive and the National Intelligence
Council, the intelligence community’s top analytical body, said
Shawn Turner, Clapper’s spokesman, in an e-mail.  Clapper told members of Congress last week that he would
assess the staffing of U.S. intelligence agencies daily, Turner
said, and yesterday he authorized the recall “based on the
growing and cumulative impact the shutdown is having on our
national security and our responsibility to collect the
intelligence necessary to protect against imminent threats to
life or property.”  Falling Behind  Two other administration officials, who requested anonymity
to discuss classified matters, said some agencies were starting
to fall behind in their efforts to verify, evaluate and analyze
the continuous flow of information from satellites, spies,
electronic intercepts and other sources.  More than 12,000 CIA employees have been furloughed, the
officials said.  At the same time, one of the officials said, there were
indications that some terrorist organizations and other hostile
groups might be attempting to learn if they could take advantage
of the furloughs, which affected 72 percent of the U.S.
intelligence workforce.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel’s Oct. 5 decision to recall
most of his department’s furloughed civilian employees helped
ease the burden on the  Defense Intelligence Agency ; the National
Security Agency, which intercepts electronic communications; and
the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, which collects
satellite photographs and other imagery, this official said.  Work continued to pile up at other agencies, complicating
efforts to keep pace with fast-moving events and share new
intelligence, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  