-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Oct. 4 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-10-09T14:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-oct-4-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged about 14.9 million
barrels per day during the week ending October 4, 2013, 555
thousand barrels per day lower than the previous week’s average.
Refineries operated at 86.0 percent of their operable capacity
last week. Gasoline production rose from the previous week,
averaging 9.2 million barrels per day. Distillate fuel
production decreased last week to about 4.6 million barrels per
day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 8.0 million barrels per
day last week, down by 320 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports
averaged just under 8.0 million barrels per day, 5.5 percent
below the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 576 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 139 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 6.8 million barrels
from the previous week. At 370.5 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper range for this time of year.
Total motor gasoline inventories increased by 0.1 million
barrels last week and are at the top of the average range.
Finished gasoline inventories increased, while gasoline blending
component inventories decreased. Distillate fuel inventories
decreased by 3.1 million barrels last week and remain near the
lower limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories decreased by 0.5 million barrels
last week and are in the middle of the average range. Total
commercial petroleum inventories increased by 1.7 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period averaged
19.2 million barrels per day, up by 3.7 percent from the same
period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor gasoline
product supplied averaged about 8.8 million barrels per day, up
by 1.8 percent from the same period last year. Distillate fuel
product supplied averaged 3.8 million barrels per day over the
last four weeks, down by 0.1 percent from the same period last
year. Jet fuel product supplied is down 1.4 percent compared to
the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  