-- Lufthansa May Expand Reorganization If Savings Miss Goals
-- B y   D a v i d   T w e e d ,   G u y   J o h n s o n   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-10-09T13:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/lufthansa-may-expand-reorganization-if-savings-miss-goals.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  Chief Executive
Officer Christoph Franz said he’s prepared to revisit a savings
program should some of the initiatives prove insufficient to
turn around  Europe ’s second-biggest airline.  While the carrier feels “very comfortable” that it can
deliver on profitability targets set out in the so-called Score
earnings-growth project, management would be willing to adjust
or extend the plan to reach the desired results, Franz said
today in an interview at the carrier’s main hub in  Frankfurt .  “Obviously any program which is triggering this kind of
change in a company is also linked with implementation risks,”
Franz said. “If there are any signals of substantial shortfalls
we will have to think about additional activities.”  Franz, who last month announced his surprise departure from
Lufthansa next year to become chairman of Swiss drugmaker  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) , is cutting thousands of jobs, moving much of the
short-haul operation to low-cost subsidiary Germanwings and
adjusting long-distance premium offerings, including the removal
of first class on routes where demand is insufficient.  Lufthansa introduced “tourism first-class” tickets in
March for about half the full fare that comes with booking
restrictions. In July, it started testing a system to overbook
first class, a practice so far limited to cheaper tickets.  ‘Sacred Cows’  “You cannot allow for any kind of sacred cows in this
industry,” Franz said. “Competitive pressure has increased to
an extent that you always have to question yourself and
challenge yourself.”  Lufthansa  rose  as much as 1.1 percent to 14.17 euros and
was trading up 0.5 percent at 14.08 euros as of 1:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt, heading for the first gain in three days. The shares
have lost 1.1 percent this year, valuing the carrier at 6.48
billion euros ($8.75 billion).  The share performance contrasts with a gain of 4.3 percent
for Paris-based  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline
by traffic, and a 78 percent surge for London-based
 International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , owner of the
British Airways and Iberia brands.  Earnings Target  Spending cuts at Lufthansa include 3,500 job reductions in
administration, contracting out some positions at its German
passenger-airline business and freezing the fleet size. The
company, which has its second-biggest hub in Munich, also plans
to shut its corporate headquarters in Cologne,  Germany , though
it has yet to disclose where the offices will relocate.  The program is part of Lufthansa’s target to more than
quadruple operating profit by 2015 to 2.3 billion euros from 524
million euros in 2012. The goal exceeds the 1.82 billion-euro
 average  of 14 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We feel very comfortable here inside Lufthansa that we
are able to deliver the 2.3 billion euros we have set out with
our measures,” Franz said.  The executive said Lufthansa is in discussions to possibly
enter into another commercial joint venture with  Air China Ltd. (601111) 
to allow for better connections to and from Europe.  “In the future, we will not only link our mutual hubs, but
it will be important to also have direct links between major
European markets and Air China’s hubs, and the other way
round,” the 53-year-old executive said. “It’s imaginable we
could create a joint venture but that takes time to develop and
create a commercial balance.”  Chinese Partnership  Lufthansa already has a joint venture with its Chinese Star
Alliance partner for plane maintenance. The company has joint
ventures with United Continental Holdings Inc. for trans-Atlantic traffic, and with All Nippon Airways Co. on Japan-Germany flights.  While Lufthansa only recently started shifting traffic to
Germanwings outside its main hub airports, data reviewed so far
show “very good” customer satisfaction as well as a
“substantial” improvement in the bottom line, Franz said.  There’s a “substantial likelihood” that Franz’s  successor 
in the CEO post will come from within the company, and that he’s
working to prepare the ground for the next leader to help the
airline through an increasingly competitive environment, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Tweed in Tokyo at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net ;
 Guy Johnson  in London at 
 gjohnson87@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  