-- Ukraine And Serbia Need IMF Aid Soon, UniCredit Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-10-09T12:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/ukraine-and-serbia-need-imf-aid-soon-unicredit-says.html
Ukraine and Serbia, struggling with
budget and current-account deficits, need to secure aid from the
International Monetary Fund in the coming quarters, while
Slovenia and  Croatia  may be next, UniCredit Bank AG said.  Ukraine may strike a deal with the IMF by March because a
free-trade agreement with the European Union, budget cuts and
the introduction of currency flexibility are helping President
Viktor Yanukovych’s re-election chances, Gillian Edgeworth, an
economist at UniCredit in  London , said today. Budget
consolidation needed for Serbia to clinch an arrangement with
the Fund may be held back by the probability of an election
there early next year, she said.  Ukraine must quickly correct economic imbalances, as its
budget shortfall may exceed 6.5 percent of annual output this
year, while the current-account gap may total 8 percent, the
World Bank said on Oct. 7.  Serbia ’s cabinet yesterday announced
steps to bring the public-finance deficit and debt under control
by 2017 after talks with IMF broke off in May.  “Policy challenges in Ukraine and Serbia have many
similarities,” Edgeworth, UniCredit’s chief economist for
emerging Europe, the Middle East and  Africa , said in an e-mailed
note. “Both countries run some of the widest twin deficits
globally in the face of structurally weak growth and
insufficient currency flexibility.”  Financial Stability  Ukraine’s foreign reserves stand at 3.3 months of imports
and 65 percent of short-term external debt, while Serbia’s
public spending has grown by more than 5 percentage points from
2008 to 2012 to reach 50 percent of gross domestic product,
increasing the difficulty for both countries to attract foreign
funding from elsewhere, UniCredit said.  Agreements with the Washington-based fund have helped
financial stability in Romania and  Poland , including when
investors withdrew funds from  emerging markets  in July and
August, UniCredit said. Ukraine’s and Serbia’s efforts to secure
loans with  China  and the United Arab Emirates, respectively,
won’t secure a lasting solution for either, Edgeworth said.  Slovenia and Croatia “are also in need of an external
anchor” as budget deficits are trailing authorities’ plans,
with Croatia struggling to return to economic growth, Edgeworth
said. Slovenia’s original 1 billion euro (1.35 billion) limit on
government help to the country’s mostly state-owned banking
industry “is likely to prove much too small,” while the size
of a bailout “is much more manageable for Europe than is the
case for Spain or even Ireland,” she added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  