-- Luxembourg’s Frieden Supports ESM Role Winding Down Banks
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-10-09T19:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/luxembourg-s-frieden-supports-esm-role-winding-down-banks.html
     Oct. 9 (Bloomberg) --Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden said he supports a proposal by  Michel Barnier , the
European Union’s financial services chief, that the euro area’s
bailout fund could one day be empowered to decide on the
shutdown of failing banks.  Barnier, in an interview with  Germany ’s Handelsblatt
newspaper, reiterated that should the EU revise its treaties in
the future, the European Stability Mechanism could take on a
bank resolution role. Barnier has suggested that this could
follow as a second step to proposals he made in July that would
centralize crisis management of stricken euro area banks. That
blueprint would give the European Commission ultimate decision-making power.  “There’s a certain logic” to the ESM proposal, Frieden
said, “because we’re in the process of creating a European
banking union in which we’re lifting many things from the
national level to the European level.” This process began with
a deal to turn the  European Central Bank  into a supervisor, he
said, “and I think the second part of this is to also lift
resolution to a European level and activate European funds,
should this become necessary.”  Frieden spoke in an interview on a plane to  Washington 
where he’s attending the annual meeting of the  International
Monetary Fund .  Barnier’s plan is part of a bid to boost confidence in
 Europe ’s financial industry by building a banking union with
centralized oversight and crisis management. The bloc’s member
states and the European Parliament reached a deal earlier this
year on legislation to hand the ECB oversight powers.  Common Position  The governments of EU countries are racing to find a common
position by year-end in order to begin negotiations on a final
text with the European Parliament, whose approval is needed
before the bill can become law.  “The steps we are taking now could certainly be improved
upon and consolidated by a future modification of the
treaties,” Barnier said in an interview with  Bloomberg News 
last month.  “One hypothesis is that the ESM, currently an
intergovernmental institution, could be turned into a community
institution,” Barnier said. “We could change its statutes.”  The resolution proposal, presented in July, met a German-led attack at a meeting last month of EU finance ministers and
central bank governors. The ministers will have another chance
to discuss the plan next week in Luxembourg.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has said
Barnier’s proposal must be overhauled because it is on shaky
legal ground and could endanger national control of budgets. The
legal service of the Council of the European Union, an EU
institution representing national governments, has also raised
concerns over national budget sovereignty and the powers of the
proposed resolution board.  “In consideration of many elements, I think this could
certainly be an interesting and preferable proposal, which,
however, still needs further examination,” Frieden said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  