-- Venezuela’s President Maduro Requests Decree Powers
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-10-09T01:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/venezuela-s-president-maduro-requests-decree-powers.html
Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro
today requested special decree powers for a 12-month period from
the National Assembly to fight corruption and alleged economic
sabotage.  “I have come to request enabling powers to deepen,
accelerate and fight to the end for a new political ethic, a new
republican life and a new society,” Maduro said in a national
address broadcast on television and radio.  Maduro, who spoke for more than two hours at the National
Assembly in Caracas, said the future of socialism in Venezuela
depended on the approval of his request and accused businesses
of hoarding goods and using foreign exchange controls for
profit.  Late President  Hugo Chavez , who died from an undisclosed
type of cancer in March, ruled by decree for four and a half of
his 14 years in power. He used those powers in 2008 to strip the
legislature’s oversight of government borrowing, give him
control of appointing regional officials and allow for a wide
range of economic intervention.  Maduro has struggled to ease shortages of  consumer goods ,
curb inflation and shrink the record gap between the official
and black-market currency exchange rates since winning election
in April.  He has accused the opposition of sabotaging the country’s
power grid and economy as annual inflation reached 45.4 percent
and the scarcity index hit 20 percent in August, meaning that
one out of about every five consumer staples is out of stock at
any given time.  National Assembly president Diosdado Cabello said today
that the enabling law request would be debated in a separate
session without specifying an exact date.  Venezuela ’s borrowing costs surged this month to the
highest in the world. The 10.35 percentage point extra yield
investors demand to hold dollar-denominated bonds instead of
Treasuries is higher than  Argentina ’s for the first time in
almost a year and compares with an average 7.10 percentage point
gap for junk-rated, emerging-market borrowers.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  