-- Venezuela’s Maduro Seeks New Decree Powers for ‘Economic War’
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-10-09T15:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/venezuela-s-maduro-seeks-new-decree-powers-for-economic-war-.html
Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro
requested special powers from the National Assembly yesterday to
fight the world’s highest inflation rate, the collapse of public
services and shortages of goods ranging from milk to beer.  The former bus driver asked lawmakers for the right to
govern by decree for 12 months to “unfold a permanent offensive
against the corrupt and their political backers.” In a speech
to the assembly, he accused businesses of “waging economic
war” by hoarding goods and speculating on foreign exchange
controls.  The decree would enable Maduro to either deepen state
control of the economy or loosen foreign exchange controls to
stimulate production, said  Asdrubal Oliveros , director of
Caracas-based research group Ecoanalitica.  The governing coalition of late President Hugo Chavez is
one vote short of the three-fifths majority required by the
constitution to pass the so-called enabling law used for special
presidential powers. Assembly President Diosdado Cabello said
after Maduro’s speech that he’s confident the law will be
approved.  Opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski, who won 49
percent of the vote in April’s presidential election, warned the
government against pushing through the bill without a three-fifths majority.  “The government would have to come in with tanks and
rifles if they want to apply this enabling law,” he said in his
weekly address broadcast on the Internet.  Chavez Legacy  Maduro argued for more than two hours at the assembly in
Caracas that the future of Chavez’s socialist legacy depends on
the approval of his request.  Chavez, who died from an undisclosed type of cancer in
March, ruled by decree for 4 1/2 of his 14 years in power. He
used those powers in 2008 to strip the legislature’s oversight
of government borrowing, give him control in appointing regional
officials and allow for a wide range of economic intervention.  Since winning the narrowest Venezuelan elections in 45
years, Maduro has overseen record shortages, inflation and
black-market dollar exchange rates. The economy will grow 0.9
percent this year, down from 5.6 percent in 2012, according to a
median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inflation reached 45.4 percent in August as the scarcity
index hit 20 percent, meaning that one out of every five
consumer staples is out of stock at any given time.  In the Black  A transmission line failure left about 60 percent of
Venezuelans without power Sept. 3, while a pipe explosion left
60 percent of Caracas without water in August.  “The government doesn’t want to assume any responsibility
for the economic performance,” Oliveros said by phone from
Caracas yesterday. “The enabling law is going to give them
legal backing for their claim that they are in an economic war
started by the private sector.”  Assembly President Cabello said yesterday the decree bill
would be debated in a separate session without specifying a
date. An enabling law needs to be debated in two separate
sessions before approval, according to Leonardo Palacios, a
constitutional lawyer at the Andres Bello Catholic University in
Caracas.  No sessions are planned for this week, an Assembly
spokeswoman, who can’t be named because of internal policy, said
today.  Venezuela ’s borrowing costs surged this month to the
highest in the world. The 10.29 percentage-point extra yield
investors demand to hold dollar-denominated bonds instead of
Treasuries is higher than Argentina’s for the first time in
almost a year and compares with an average 7.06 percentage-point
gap for junk-rated, emerging-market borrowers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  