-- Vestas Sells 6 Factories to VTC Partners for 1 Euro
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-10-09T10:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/vestas-sells-6-factories-to-vtc-partners-for-1-euro.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  sold six
turbine factories to VTC Partners GmbH for 1 euro ($1.35) to
complete a program of asset disposals under the unprofitable
Danish manufacturer’s two-year turnaround plan.  The company will book a writedown of about 50 million euros
on the sale when it reports third-quarter earnings, Aarhus-based
Vestas said today in an e-mailed statement. The plants are in
 Norway ,  Sweden , Germany,  China  and  Denmark .  Vestas is trying to stem two years of losses by lowering
fixed costs by 400 million euros and cutting staff 30 percent to
16,000 in a turnaround due to continue through to the end of
this year. The sale of four foundries and two machining units,
which refine cast metal products into finished components, means
Vestas will no longer have assets for sale on its  balance sheet .  “The divestment of our machining and casting units is part
of the plan to improve our capacity utilization and to become a
more asset-light and scalable company,” Chief Operating Officer
Jean-Marc Lechene said. “It was important to take the time to
find the right partner in order for both parties to benefit.”  Vestas declined by as much as 6.3 percent and was down 2.6
percent at 144 kroner as of 11:43 a.m. in Copenhagen trading.
The stock has risen more than fourfold in value this year.  About 1,000 staff at the plants will move to VTC after the
sale, which comes a week after Vestas said it planned to shut
its nacelle plant in Taranto,  Italy , affecting 120 workers.  The company employed 17,253 at the end of the second half,
and said in August it would no longer sell its tower factory in
Pueblo,  Colorado , as it expect full utilization next year.  Plants Sold  Vestas will be entitled to as much as 25 million euros of
earnings from the plants sold, depending on their performance,
according to the company. It signed a sales-and-supply deal with
Munich-based VTC and said it expects the sale to lower its costs
for cast components by about 30 million euros over two years.  The deal is subject to approvals from China, Vestas said.  “This transaction offers compelling advantages for both
parties involved and VTC plans to invest significantly in the
strategic realignment of the group,” VTC Managing Director
Thomas Robl said in the statement. VTC owns the Silbitz Group, a
metal-casting business based in  Germany , the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  