-- Vodacom May Curb Investment After South Africa Rate Cuts
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-10-09T15:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/vodacom-may-curb-investment-after-south-africa-rate-cuts.html
South Africa ’s two largest wireless
operators may curb investment and cut staff numbers if they
can’t reach a compromise on lower mobile termination rates with
the country’s regulator.  “There’s a very real chance that if the fees go through
the way they are at the moment, we’ll have to take a significant
knife to costs,”  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ’s South Africa Chief Executive
Officer Zunaid Bulbulia said in an interview. “We would have to
take costs out of the business, right across the board. So
staffing, commissions we pay, handset subsidies.”  The amount mobile-phone companies pay each other to end
calls on another network will halve to 20 cents ($0.02) as of
March 2014, the Independent Communications Authority of South
Africa said in an Oct. 4 statement. The draft proposals include
changes to so-called asymmetry, which helps smaller competitors
by charging them less to use the larger networks of  Vodacom
Group Ltd. (VOD)  and nearest competitor MTN.  “There’ll be less revenue for us to reinvest into the
business, as we’re subsidizing our rivals,” Vodacom Chief
Executive Officer Shameel Joosub said in an interview late
yesterday. The company will seek to review its business model by
looking at marketing, staff and real-estate costs, he said.  The wireless operators will respond to the South African
regulator and are seeking to negotiate the depth of the fee
cuts, MTN’s Bulbulia and Vodacom’s Joosub said. They plan to
suggest the rates are reduced more gradually, so the
Johannesburg-based companies can adjust their business models.  ‘Less revenue’  MTN expects the proposals to cost its business more than 1
billion rand ($100 million), while Joosub declined to quantify
the effect.  Vodacom  shares  gained as much as 2.2 percent after Joosub’s
comments, the most in two weeks, and traded 0.4 percent higher
at 113.80 rand at the market close in Johannesburg. The stock
fell 8.4 percent in the two sessions after the lower rates were
announced. MTN advanced 1.3 percent to 191 rand.  “The recommendations are still at the consultative
stage,” Paseka Maleka, a spokesman for the regulator ICASA,
said by phone today. “We are still waiting for comments from
all stakeholders.”  “Worrying Sign”  Vodacom and MTN’s threat to slow investment comes less than
a week after Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest
maker of  luxury vehicles , said it would stop expansion in South
Africa after labor strikes forced its plant to shut down for
three weeks in August and September. BMW’s plans are a
“worrying sign,” Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Oct.
7, while the German carmaker’s move was condemned by the
National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa.  ICASA’s proposed asymmetry measures are “ludicrous,”
Joosub told the mybroadband.co.za technology conference in
Johannesburg today. “Big players are subsidizing smaller
players.”  While mobile-phone call prices should fall and lower
termination rates are a way of achieving that, the proposals by
the regulator go too far, he said. “We’re hoping to find a more
amicable solution that helps everyone.”  Vodacom is the biggest operator in South Africa with about
47 percent of the market, according to a report by Deloitte
Digital published in February. It said last month it’s in
exclusive talks to buy Internet provider Neotel, a unit of  Tata
Communications Ltd. (TCOM) , to increase its number of business
customers. MTN has a 37 percent market share, according to the
same Deloitte report.  Cell C  Cell C, a closely-held company that is South Africa’s
third-biggest mobile-phone operator, said today it had
complained to the  Competition Commission  about anti-competitive
behavior by Vodacom and MTN with regards to their networks. Cell
C has a 14 percent market share, according to the Deloitte
report, and is targeting 25 percent, Chief Executive Officer
Alan Knott-Craig said in a presentation at the conference.  MTN denied any wrongdoing. “We see this as another
desperate attempt to cry for further subsidies for a failing
business,” the company said in e-mailed statement.  Vodacom said in a statement it was “standard practice
worldwide for companies to offer their customers lower priced
calls when those calls are to other people on the same
network.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  