-- Wal-Mart Faces Setback to India Retail Foray
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-10-09T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/wal-mart-to-buy-out-partner-in-wholesale-stores-venture-in-india.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  last year laid
out plans to set up retail stores in India. The world’s largest
retailer faces a setback to those ambitions after ending a six-year local partnership with billionaire Sunil Mittal.  The breakup will likely prompt Wal-Mart to put its Indian
retail plans on hold and focus on building its wholesale
business, Rakesh Gambhir, vice president at industry group Food
& Grocery Forum India, said yesterday after the two companies
disclosed they would end their joint venture.  Wal-Mart would need to find a new partner if it decides to
enter the retail industry in India, where foreign firms need
partnerships with local businesses to set up supermarkets. The
split is the latest in the string of troubles for the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company in  India , where it’s being
investigated by the government and is conducting an internal
probe on possible violations of U.S. anti-corruption laws.  “A lot of the players are going to look at this breakup,
as something that happened because of Wal-Mart’s internal
issues,” said Harish Bijoor, founder of retail consultancy
Harish Bijoor Consults Inc.  Other foreign retailers may now be interested in partnering
with Bharti Enterprises Pvt., which has an established retail
business, said Bijoor.  In September last year, Scott Price, head of Wal-Mart’s
Asia operations, said the company will take 12-18 months to open
retail outlets.  Experience Gained  The tie-up with the world’s biggest retailer would have
given Bharti a lot of expertise in running retail chains, and
the Indian company will be well placed to grow that business,
said Saloni Nangia, vice president at consultant Technopak
Advisors Pvt.  Wal-Mart agreed to buy out Bharti’s stake in the wholesale
joint venture, helping it gain full control over 20 so-called
cash and carry stores and their supply chain. The U.S. retailer
plans to continue to expand this business in the country,
according to yesterday’s statement.  These stores supply to neighborhood shopkeepers and
businesses, and the segment “has huge potential,” Nangia said.  Under recently relaxed rules in India, foreign-owned
retailers will have to buy 30 percent of manufactured products
from small- and medium-sized local firms with less than $2
million invested in factories and machinery. Earlier rules were
even stricter, defining “small and medium” companies as those
with investments of under $1 million.  Entry Barriers  Even after these changes, the entry barriers for foreign
retailers “aren’t workable,” Wal-Mart’s Price said in an Oct.
5 interview. The rules still don’t provide a level playing field
for international retailers compared with local rivals, he said.  Price on Oct. 5 said the company isn’t talking to other
partners and its relationship with Bharti was “very good.”
Wal-Mart yesterday declined to comment further on partnerships
in an e-mailed response to questions.  The two companies yesterday said they are also
discontinuing their “franchise agreement in the retail
business.” Bharti Retail runs a network of more than 210 large
and medium-sized supermarkets in India called Easy Day.  Wal-Mart had invested 4.56 billion rupees ($74 million) in
the compulsory convertible debentures in Cedar Support Services,
a company controlled by Bharti Enterprises and a holding company
for Bharti Retail. As part of the deal announced yesterday,
Bharti will buy the debentures from Wal-Mart. The companies did
not provide a transaction value.  The wholesale joint venture, which opened its first store
in the northern city of Amritsar in May 2009, operates cash-and-carry outlets where only businesses with valid sales tax
documents are allowed to shop after becoming members. Both
companies own a 50 percent stake each in the venture, according
to its website.  Bharti’s Plans  The two partners will now probably become competitors.  Bharti plans to open its own chain of wholesale stores,
said two people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
identified because they are not authorized to speak to the
media. Bharti, in an e-mailed statement, declined to comment.  Wal-Mart has lost top executives in India over the past
year. In June, its chief executive officer of the India joint
venture, Raj Jain, left the company amid government and internal
investigations. His departure came seven months after the
venture’s chief financial officer was suspended.  Jain will join Bharti Group as an adviser, the company said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  An Indian government agency is investigating allegations
that Wal-Mart violated rules governing foreign investment in the
retail industry, Anand Sharma, minister for commerce and
industry, said in December. A separate probe into allegations
that Wal-Mart lobbied Indian government officials ended without
any conclusions, according to a government document obtained by
Bloomberg.  No Investments  While the nation changed laws in September last year to
allow foreign companies to own majority stakes in multibrand
retail chains, no global retailer has sought such licenses yet.
The government also eased rules covering sourcing,
infrastructure investment and store location in August, in an
effort to woo Wal-Mart,  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and other global chains to
open retail stores.  The reluctance of overseas companies to invest in retail
operations has been a blow to the government of Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh, which has battled capital outflows and a
plunging currency this year.  Foreign investment “in multibrand retail is pretty much
stuck now. No companies have outlined a clear plan even a year
after government opened things up,” Dhvani Bavishi, an analyst
at ICICI Direct, said. “Wal-Mart was expected to be the first,
and now that’ll get delayed a lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  