-- Walgreen Sells Part of Chicago-Area Headquarters Complex
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-10-09T19:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/walgreen-sells-part-of-chicago-area-headquarters-complex.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG)  sold a portion of its
headquarters complex in suburban Chicago to property investor
 Realty Income Corp. (O) , which will lease the space back to the
largest U.S. drugstore chain.  Realty Income paid $85 million for the real estate,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction who
asked not to be named because the price wasn’t announced. The
38-acre (15-hectare) property in Deerfield,  Illinois , has
574,605 square feet (53,383 square meters) of space, brokerage
Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., which represented Walgreen, said in a
statement today.  The property’s location and Walgreen’s investment-grade
credit rating will give Realty Income a secure source of income,
Bruce Westwood-Booth, a managing director at Jones Lang, said in
the statement. Realty Income, based in Escondido,  California ,
owned 3,681 properties with an occupancy rate of 98.2 percent as
of the end of June, according to its latest quarterly report.  Realty Income doesn’t comment on individual acquisitions
outside of quarterly conference calls, Vice Chairman Thomas A. Lewis said in an e-mail. Guy Ponticiello, a Jones Lang managing
director, and Jim Graham, a spokesman for Walgreen, declined to
comment on the price.  By selling and leasing back the buildings, “we can
generate capital for reinvestment in our core business,
including improvements in our retail drugstores,” Graham said
in an e-mail. “We believe that is a more productive and
beneficial use of our capital.”  Most of Realty Income’s properties are leased to retailers,
including Walgreen, which accounted for 4.1 percent of its
revenue as of June 30. Realty Income owned 36 office buildings
at the end of the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  