-- Walton-Family Backed Achates Raises $35.2 Million
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-10-09T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/walton-family-backed-achates-raises-35-2-million.html
Achates Power Inc., a developer of
efficient internal-combustion engines, raised $35.2 million from
investors including  Sequoia Capital  Partners and the venture
capital arm of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s founding family.  Achates, based in  San Diego , will use the money to further
engine development and continue to expand in regions and
industries that need fuel-efficient power, Chief Executive
Officer  David Johnson  said in an interview.  Achates  uses opposed
pistons and cylinders in a design that the company said boosts
fuel efficiency by 55 percent for gasoline powertrains.  The closely held company said it has now secured more than
$90 million in four rounds. Interest has come from the
automotive, defense, shipping and power-generation sectors,
helped by regulatory pressure for increased fuel economy and
lower emissions, Johnson said.  “I think people and industries realize that the technology
they have today, and what they are developing in their labs for
tomorrow, isn’t enough to meet the mounting challenges,”
Johnson said. “And in many cases solutions they have tend to be
very expensive. That’s where we’ve been able to offer a
different paradigm.”  The opposed-piston engines emit 30 percent less nitrogen
oxide and improve diesel fuel economy by 21 percent, Achates
said.  Achates is  helping develop  the next-generation combat
engine for the U.S. Army. The company doesn’t have an engine in
production yet, Johnson said.  Madrone  Capital Partners , the Walton family investment arm,
has invested in Achates since its founding in 2004, Johnson
said. Other investors include Sequoia Capital, RockPort Capital
Partners, InterWest Partners and Triangle Peak Partners, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  