-- Westpac Said to Have Bid About A$2.1 Billion for Lloyds Assets
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-10-09T02:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/westpac-said-to-have-bid-about-a-2-1-billion-for-lloyds-assets.html
Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Australia ’s
second-biggest lender by market value, bid about A$2.1 billion
($2 billion) for  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s assets in the
country, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Westpac is in discussions with Lloyds on the offer, said
two people with knowledge of the process, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  Macquarie Group
Ltd. (MQG)  and Pepper Australia Pty have also made bids for the
assets, people familiar with the matter have said.  The deal would mark Westpac’s biggest acquisition since it
bought St. George Bank Ltd. for A$18.5 billion in 2008. Chief
Executive Officer Gail Kelly, who ran St. George before the
Westpac takeover, in May agreed to pay a special dividend for
the first time since 1988 after first-half cash earnings rose 10
percent.  Westpac’s offer would include about A$360 million of
goodwill for about A$1.7 billion of net assets, the person said.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is advising Lloyds on the sale, which
includes the car leasing Capital Finance unit and corporate
loans valued at more than A$2 billion, people familiar with the
process have said.  Lloyds is strengthening its balance sheet by selling assets
and cutting costs following the bank’s 20 billion-pound ($32
billion) bailout in 2008. Lloyds International Pty, the London-based lender’s Australian unit, reported a loss of A$148.3
million in 2012, after a shortfall of A$1.2 billion the previous
year, according to company filings. The division reduced assets
by 24 percent to A$12.2 billion last year, the documents show.  Spokesmen for Westpac, Lloyds, Macquarie and Pepper
declined to comment on the transaction.  Australia’s so-called four-pillar policy prevents the
largest four banks --  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) , Commonwealth Bank of Australia, National Australia Bank
Ltd. and Westpac -- from buying each other.  For Westpac, the second-largest mortgage lender in the
country, buying the Lloyds assets would expand its auto leasing
and corporate-loan portfolio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  