-- Twitter to Provide Links to Programs in Comcast Partnership
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-10-09T16:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/twitter-to-provide-links-to-comcast-programs-in-partnership.html
Twitter Inc. will provide links that
let pay-TV users record or view programs on  Comcast (CMCSA)  Corp.’s
cable service, a partnership designed to take advantage of
social-media conversations about TV shows.  Beginning in November, Comcast’s Xfinity TV customers will
be able to click on a See It button in Twitter posts about
programs and movies, producing a menu of options including
tuning into live TV or starting an on-demand show through their
set-top boxes, according to a statement today. Twitter plans to
offer the option to other video providers and other networks
beyond the broadcast and cable channels operated by Comcast’s
NBCUniversal unit.  Twitter, which began in 2006 as a service for 140-character
status updates, is pushing for more video content to get users
to spend more time on its site and watch ads. The partnership
helps Comcast increase viewership for NBCUniversal and takes
advantage of new features that lets customers control its
Xfinity set-top boxes with mobile devices, said Sam Schwartz,
the cable company’s executive vice president of strategy and
development.  “There are tons of conversation about live TV, but does
that really lead to someone programming their DVR or picking up
their remote?” Schwartz said. “This very clearly and in a
measurable way links that conversation with consumption. If
you’re a programmer, you monetize best if someone is watching
that show live on a television set. It’s a win-win-win for
Twitter, the programmers and the distributors.”  Beyond Twitter  Comcast’s goal is to have See It buttons on all pages on
the Web, similar to  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s Like button, Schwartz said.
An online review about a movie could have a See It button at the
bottom of the story that directs readers to buy a ticket through
Fandango Inc., which Comcast owns, Schwartz said.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, is already discussing
adding See It buttons with Facebook and other sites, he said.  Twitter, based in San Francisco, has also held talks with
 Viacom Inc. (VIA)  about hosting TV clips and ads on its site, people
with knowledge of the matter said in April. Twitter released an
S-1 filing earlier this month, officially paving the way for an
initial public offering.  “Twitter is where television viewers come to talk about
what they’re watching on TV when they’re watching it,” Dick Costolo, Twitter’s chief executive officer, said in a statement.
“Millions of users are exposed to the live conversation that
unfolds on Twitter while a show is on the air and now, with See
It, they’ll be able to tune in directly from a tweet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  