-- Woodford Wields $51 Billion Wallet as U.K. Biotech Savior
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-10-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/woodford-wields-51-billion-wallet-as-u-k-biotech-savior.html
Antony Odellneeded to raise money
for a biotechnology company with 19 employees and no sales, not
an easy task in the U.K. Enter Neil Woodford, a star investor
overseeing $51 billion at Invesco Fund Managers Ltd.  Odell followed a well-trodden path to Invesco’s offices in
Henley-on-Thames,  England , and Woodford agreed to invest about
25 million pounds for 29 percent of  Tissue Regenix Group Plc. (TRX) 
Plenty of others make the same trek -- Invesco, via Woodford,
owns stakes in small publicly traded companies such as  e-Therapeutics Plc  and  Retroscreen Virology Group Plc (RVG) , as well as
unlisted, venture-capital-stage companies such as  Oxford
Nanopore Technologies Ltd.  and Circassia Holdings Ltd.  The positions have made Woodford one of the U.K.’s biggest
investors in early-stage health-care companies at a time when
financing for the industry has shrunk. As investors shied away
from risk amid the economic crisis, Woodford-managed funds
plugged the gap with investments ranging from a few million
pounds to 100 million pounds, executives, analysts and others
who know him said in interviews.  “If it wasn’t for him, it would be quite grim,” said
Navid Malik, an analyst at Cenkos Securities in London who
follows some of the small companies Woodford invests in. “There
would be a few CEOs throwing themselves off the roof.”  Financing for biotechnology companies in the U.K. fell 84
percent to 363 million euros ($493 million) in 2012 from 2.2
billion euros in 2007, according to data compiled by Ernst &
Young.  Venture capital  declined 37 percent to 172 million euros
and loans and initial public offerings ground to a near halt,
according to the firm.  Dividend-Paying Giants  U.S. companies, in contrast, have been able to count on
increased funding. Financing rose 7 percent in the U.S. in the
same period, according to Ernst & Young.  While cash from Woodford has been crucial to the U.K.’s
small health-care companies, the investments aren’t even his
main focus at Invesco. Rather, the 53-year-old investor manages
funds totaling about 32 billion pounds ($51 billion) in assets,
focused on giant, dividend-paying companies. His 14-billion-pound flagship  Invesco Perpetual High Income Fund (INVHIII) , the U.K.’s
largest stock mutual fund, counts companies such as
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , British American Tobacco Plc, BAE Systems
Plc and BT Plc among its biggest holdings.  Woodford’s dual role means he may be one of the few fund
managers in the world courted by fledgling health businesses
like Odell’s one day and CEOs of the world’s biggest companies
the next. When Odell sat across from Woodford in November 2011,
the fund manager said Glaxo Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty 
had occupied the same chair a few weeks earlier.  ‘Small Fish’  Invesco is the third-biggest investor in Glaxo, the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker with a market value of 75.5 billion pounds.
Tissue Regenix, based in York, England, first sold shares on
London’s Alternative Investment Market in 2010 and was raising
more money in 2011 to develop replacement body parts made from
animal tissue, such as pig heart valves. The company has a
market value of 66.1 million pounds.  “You’re aware you’re a very small fish in a very big
pond,” Odell said in an interview. “We got into a discussion
about what it would take to fund these programs and Neil was up
for it.”  Invesco Perpetual doesn’t break out most of Woodford’s
holdings in smaller U.K. health companies. Woodford rarely talks
to journalists and, through Invesco spokeswoman Lucy Forgan,
declined to be interviewed.  Gene Sequencing  Biotech executives can find getting an audience with
Woodford challenging, too. Oxford Nanopore Chief Executive
Officer Gordon Sanghera tried to see Woodford for four years
before meeting him in 2011, the executive said.  Invesco invested in the closely held Oxford, England-based
company, which is developing a portable gene-sequencing device
for about $1,000, in 2011. Oxford Nanopore has raised 145
million pounds since it was  founded in 2005 . Charles Weston, an
analyst at Numis Securities in London, estimates the company’s
value at $1.5 billion.  Invesco also is the largest shareholder in  IP Group Plc (IPO)  and
 Imperial Innovations Group Plc (IVO) , publicly traded venture-capital
firms that invest in startups spawned by U.K. universities.
Imperial and IP Group are the source of some of Woodford’s
investments in up-and-coming companies.  Woodford learned about Tissue Regenix via IP Group, an
early backer, according to Odell. IP Group also was an early
investor in Oxford Nanopore, Retroscreen and  Revolymer Plc (REVO) ,
while Imperial backed Circassia, PsiOxus Therapeutics Ltd. and
Cell Medica Ltd. Invesco owns 29 percent of IP Group and 47
percent of Imperial, both of which are based in London.  Invesco Park  “He uses his investments in those to cherry pick,” said
Kate Bingham, managing partner of investment firm SV Life
Sciences Advisers LLP in  London . “It would be nice to have more
like him.”  Woodford visits top managers or invites them to Perpetual
Park, Invesco’s collection of brick office buildings in Henley,
a town 38 miles west of London known for its summer rowing
regatta and as the 13th richest in the U.K., according to a
survey this year by real-estate firm Savills and The Telegraph
newspaper.  “Every company gets their 15 minutes of fame out at
Invesco’s park,” said Mark Warne, IP Group’s head of life
sciences. “He insists on having a one-to-one conversation for a
decent period of time to get an idea of them.”  Chewing Gum  Last year Woodford met with executives of Revolymer, which
makes polymers for use in nicotine gum and chewing gum products,
before its 25-million-pound initial public offering.  “If he picks up the phone and says ‘I want to see you
about your projects,’ he will come down,” Chief Financial
Officer Robin Cridland said. “We met him on the road show and
we met him for a long time. It was our job to persuade him.”  Woodford doesn’t meddle in day-to-day operations, company
executives said. Tissue Regenix updates Woodford two or three
times a year, Odell said.  “He does let them get on with it,” Warne said. “The sums
of money are to last several years so they can’t keep coming
back every six months.”  About half of Woodford’s stakes in publicly traded small
health companies fall just below the U.K. Takeover Panel’s 30
percent ownership threshold that requires a shareholder to make
a cash offer for all the other shares, unless it obtains a
waiver.  Equestrian Center  Woodford, an economics and agriculture graduate of Exeter
University, rides horses at home in the Chiltern hills, where he
lives with his family in a rambling manor house for which he
paid 6.85 million pounds in May 2004, according to U.K. Land
Registry records. It’s surrounded by a swimming pool, a show-jumping ring, oak gates and security cameras.  He made headlines in 2011 when he sought to redevelop a
farm in a neighboring village into an equestrian center, irking
neighbors. The proposal failed after neighbors objected.  U.K. newspapers routinely cite Woodford’s views on stocks,
and he also weighs in on public policy and corporate strategy.
Last month, he said the leader of the  Labor Party ,  Ed Miliband ,
committed  “economic vandalism”  by proposing a freeze on energy
bills. Invesco is the biggest shareholder in U.K. utility
Centrica Plc. Woodford last year also criticized BAE Systems
Plc’s planned merger with European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co., a deal that fell through.  Not all of Woodford’s biotech investments have ended in the
winner’s circle.  Antisoma Plc’s (ASM)  stock price has slid for much of
its 15 years as a public company, and Invesco dumped 22.9
million of its 31.7 million shares of the the cancer-drug
developer as the stock plunged 64 percent on Jan. 31, 2011.  Still, his biggest fund, Invesco Perpetual High Income,
returned an average of 12 percent a year  the past five years ,
better than 63 percent of competing funds, after Woodford
steered clear of banking stocks before the 2008 meltdown.  “Whatever he’s done, he’s done very well,” says Vadim Alexandre, an analyst at Daniel Stewart & Co. in London. “He’s
definitely a heavy hitter in the sector.”  For Related News and Information:
Credit Suisse Analyst Arnold Said to Join Wellington Management  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  