-- Yahoo Japan Store Applications Jump After Son Scraps Fees
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-10-09T06:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/yahoo-japan-store-applications-surge-after-son-eliminates-fees.html
Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , the nation’s most-visited Web portal, said applications for new stores on its
shopping site surged after billionaire Chairman Masayoshi Son
eliminated fees for online retail outlets.  About 10,000 applications were received from outlets and
16,000 from individuals, the Tokyo-based company said in an e-mailed statement today. There are currently 20,000 stores on its
shopping site, it said.  Scrapping fees to lure outlets is designed to draw
customers to Yahoo Japan and help win sales from rivals such as
Amazon.com Inc. in the nation’s 4 trillion yen ($41 billion) e-commerce market. Son’s  strategy  poses a direct challenge to
billionaire Hiroshi Mikitani’s  Rakuten Inc. (4755) , which charges to
operate stores on the country’s largest Internet shopping mall.  “The challenge for Yahoo has been that its store lineup
doesn’t look attractive to customers when compared to Rakuten or
Amazon,” said Tomoaki Kawasaki, an analyst at  Iwai Cosmo
Holdings Inc. (8707)  in  Tokyo . “The new strategy seems to be effective
to overcome that challenge. Gaining stores will likely lead to
an increase in ad revenue.”  Yahoo Japan has slumped since Son announced the plan on
Oct. 7. The shares fell 3.7 percent to 515 yen at the close of
trade in Tokyo after sliding 6.5 percent yesterday. That is the
worst two-day performance for the stock since March 2011.  Yahoo Japan got  more than half  of last fiscal year’s sales
from advertising. The company is 43 percent-owned by Son’s
 SoftBank Corp. (9984) , the nation’s third-largest wireless carrier,
while  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  owns 35 percent, according to  data compiled  by
Bloomberg.  SoftBank fell 5.7 percent to 7,000 yen. The stock was cut
to neutral at Citigroup Inc. yesterday.  Most of the new applications Yahoo Japan has received are
likely from stores that have limited sales, said Naoki Fujiwara,
chief  fund manager  at Tokyo-based Shinkin Asset Management Co.  “I don’t think attractive shops that already have secured
their positions with other sites like Rakuten will switch to
Yahoo all of a sudden,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  