-- MLB Yankees Sign Manager Girardi to Four-Year Contract Extension
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-10-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/yankees-sign-manager-girardi-to-four-year-contract-extension-1-.html
New York Yankees manager Joe Girardi
said his confidence the team could win its 28th World Series
title by 2017 was a principal factor in his decision to return
to the club with a four-year contract extension.  Girardi, 48, and the Yankees agreed to an extension that
will keep him under contract through the 2017 season, the Major
League Baseball team said yesterday in an e-mail. While terms of
the agreement weren’t disclosed, CBS Sports reported the deal is
worth $16 million, plus bonuses.  Girardi has led the team to the playoffs in four of his six
seasons, including the club’s 27th World Series title in 2009.
The Yankees have the best record in baseball (564-408) since he
took over before the 2008 season.  Girardi said on a conference call that he would not have
accepted the offer if he didn’t think he could win another
title.  “The history of this organization is unbelievable,”
Girardi told reporters. “Just to be able to put on the
pinstripes, as a coach, a player, whoever you are, is special
because of what New York has meant to Major League Baseball and
what it’s meant to all of us.”  Injury-depleted New York was 85-77 in 2013, tied for third
in the American League East division with the Baltimore Orioles.
It was the second time in the past 19 years that the Yankees
have missed the postseason.  ‘Significantly Less’  “Obviously the talent that he had to work with this year
was significantly less than other years,” General Manager Brian Cashman said last week. “The job of the manager is to make sure
these guys fight, compete on a daily basis and stay motivated,
and he was able to provide that.”  The announcement comes less than a week after Cashman and
Yankees Managing General Partner  Hal Steinbrenner  said they
wanted to have Girardi back. Girardi’s previous contract was set
to expire at the end of October and he was considered a leading
candidate for the Chicago Cubs’ managerial vacancy, according to
ESPN.  “After talking with my family we decided this is where we
wanted to come back,” Girardi said. “We never really
interviewed with anybody else.”  A native of Peoria,  Illinois , Girardi played 15 MLB seasons
as a catcher, including four years with the Yankees in
1996-1999, when the team won three World Series titles. He hit
.267 in 1,277 career games, with 36 home runs and 422 runs
batted in.  Managerial Debut  After his playing career, Girardi spent one season as
manager of the Florida Marlins, leading the team to a 78-84
record in 2006. He was voted National League Manager of the Year
and was fired in the offseason after becoming the third person
to win the award in his managerial debut.  Girardi became Yankees manager on Oct. 30, 2007, succeeding
Joe Torre, who managed the team to four World Series titles in a
12-year span. The Yankees had not won a playoff series in three
years when Torre declined an offer to re-sign with the team.  In Girardi’s first season, the Yankees went 89-73, the
club’s lowest win total in eight seasons, snapping New York’s
streak of 13 consecutive playoff appearances. The following
season, the team beat the Philadelphia Phillies to capture its
MLB-record 27th World Series title.  Girardi won his 500th game with the Yankees on May 10 this
season in his 844th game with the team, according to the
release. He was the fifth-fastest manager in team history to
reach that milestone, trailing Casey Stengel (790 games), Joe McCarthy (796), Torre (833) and Miller Huggins (833).  Payroll Reduction  New York had an opening day payroll of $228.8 million in
2013, according to CBS Sports. Team ownership has said it would
like the Yankees to be below $189 million next year to save
luxury tax payments that can be as high as 50 percent of any
amount over that threshold.  Girardi said the team will be competitive regardless of its
payroll.  “$189 million is still an awfully lofty number,” he said.
“Through the minor-league system, the free agents and the
players that we have, we will be very good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  