-- Yellen’s Nomination Great Advance for Women: Marcus
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-10-09T11:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/yellen-s-nomination-great-advance-for-women-marcus.html
South African central bank Governor
Gill Marcus made the following comments to reporters in Cape
Town on the nomination of  Janet Yellen  as the head of the U.S.
Federal Reserve.  Marcus, 64, was appointed the first female governor of the
South African Reserve Bank in 2009.  “I’m very pleased to learn about the nomination. I hope
the approval process goes smoothly.”  The U.S. “is spoilt for choice. They have got a huge body
of knowledge among individuals. Janet is an outstanding
economist and she will make a superb governor.  ‘‘In terms of her contributions, and we meet on a regular
basis, she is highly professional, very authoritative, very
knowledgeable, very thoughtful in her thinking. I think the
world and United States will be very lucky and proud to have a
person at the helm like Janet.  ‘‘In terms of knowledge, capacity, skill, I think if Janet
was a man if anyone looked at these qualifications, it would not
have been a question.  ‘‘I think it was most unfortunate to have one of the major
newspapers in the  United States  talk about a weakening if you
had a genderized dollar, which I think is appalling. It has
become a gender issue in the United States.  ‘‘When you talk about women governors, well it will be a
great advance. Every one matters.  ‘‘This is the first advanced economy that I’m aware of that
has a female governor. All of us who are there are from  emerging
markets .  ‘‘It’s very significant that there has been such a scarcity
of women at the helm in this field.  ‘‘Research shows that when you have women who are
economists and part of policy making that they tend to have a
greater consideration for some of the areas that would otherwise
not be included and that is how do you deal with the poor, how
do you deal with the unemployed?  ‘‘Janet is going to deal with the issues on a professional
basis, with a lot of the research and data that will inform her
thinking.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  