-- Yoox Looking at Acquisitions to Boost Business, CEO Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-10-09T15:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-09/yoox-looking-at-acquisitions-to-boost-online-business-ceo-says.html
Yoox SpA (YOOX)  Chief Executive Officer
Federico Marchetti said the online retailer is looking at
acquisitions to bolster its business, though it isn’t in talks
currently to buy  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) ’s Net-a-Porter.  “There are no talks underway with Richemont,” Marchetti
said today in a phone interview. Asked if there had been talks
between the companies about Net-a-Porter, he said: “We wouldn’t
be doing our job if we didn’t look at certain acquisitions in a
selective manner and we will continue to do so.”  Yoox, based in the Italian city of Bologna, has a dedicated
team to evaluate investment opportunities that could help
maintain the company’s leadership position in luxury e-commerce
and create industrial synergies, Marchetti said. Yoox has held
talks with Richemont about a merger with Net-a-Porter, though
discussions have stalled, Il Sole 24 Ore reported today without
saying where it got the information.  Alan Grieve, a spokesman for Geneva-based Richemont,
declined to comment.  No transaction would compromise the independence with which
Yoox manages the online stores of more than 30 fashion and
luxury-goods brands, Marchetti said. The monobrand business,
which is growing well, “is our point of strength,” the CEO
said. “Yoox would never do something to lose” it.  Break Up  Yoox, which last year set up an e-commerce venture with
Gucci-owner Kering SA, also sells third-party products via the
yoox.com, thecorner.com and shoescribe.com multibrand websites.
Yoox shares, which have more than doubled this year, fell 3.3
percent today in Milan trading.  Richemont, the world’s largest jewelry maker, in May fueled
speculation it could break up its fashion and leather-goods unit
after Chairman Johann Rupert said the company should have been
quicker to cull bad investments and the division’s head left.
Richemont has appointed Nomura Holdings Inc. to sell handbag
maker Lancel, two people familiar with the situation told
Bloomberg last month.  Richemont acquired the two-thirds of Net-a-Porter it didn’t
own in 2010 in a deal valuing the retailer at 350 million pounds
($558 million). Net-a-Porter, founded by former fashion
journalist Natalie Massenet in 2000, reported a loss of 19
million euros ($25.7 million) in the 12 months through March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  