-- ‘Dark Knight’ Producer Legendary Reaches China Accord
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-05-30T23:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/-hangover-producer-legendary-reaches-china-film-deal.html
Legendary Pictures Inc., co-producer
of  Warner Bros . releases including “The  Dark Knight ,” agreed
to make movies with China Film Co., gaining a foothold in the
No. 2 film market while weighing its options in Hollywood.  Legendary East, with operations in Beijing and Hong Kong,
will work with China Film to develop movies for worldwide
audiences over an initial three-year term, the companies said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Terms weren’t disclosed.
China Film is a unit of the government-backed China Film Group.  A presence in China may strengthen Legendary Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Tull’s hand as he considers breaking
away from Warner Bros. when his current deal expires in
December. Tull has held discussions with other studios about
partnerships, people familiar with the situation said in
February.  “This should be very attractive for other studios,” said
Robert Cain, a consultant for U.S. producers working in  China .
“It’s very significant.”  Co-productions in China are appealing to Hollywood studios
because they are exempt from the country’s quota limiting the
number of foreign movies released there to 34 a year. China Film
Group should help Legendary avoid entanglements in the
government’s approval process, Cain said in an interview.  “These are films that will be designed to be developed in
China and really conform fully with the co-production rules,”
Cain said. “They’ll know very early on whether the scripts are
approved.”  Release Plans  Legendary East and China Film Co. tentatively plan to
release their first movie by late 2014, said Cain, who recently
met with Legendary East CEO Peter Loehr.  Loehr ran Los Angeles-based  Creative Artists Agency ’s China
offices until he was hired by Tull last year, Cain said. Before
going to CAA, he worked in China as an independent producer of
English and Chinese-language films.  Theater ticket sales in China increased 36 percent to $2.7
billion last year, according to the  Motion Picture Association 
of America. Films in  development  at Legendary include “The
Great Wall,” which centers on the construction of the Great
Wall of China.  Legendary, based in Burbank, California, has co-financed
and co-produced some of the  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s studio’s biggest
franchises, including the “Hangover” and “Clash of the
Titans” movies.  Time Warner, based in New York, rose 0.6 percent to $59.58
yesterday in New York. The shares have added 25 percent this
year, outpacing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 16 percent
gain.  Paul McGuire , a spokesman for Warner Bros. in Burbank,
California, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  