-- Abe’s Economic Revival Smacks Into Japan’s Reality
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-05-30T16:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/abe-s-economic-revival-smacks-into-japan-s-reality.html
Is the  Bank of Japan  creating the
biggest pyramid scheme in history?  In recent weeks Haruhiko Kuroda has been the toast of the
financial world, winning plaudits from Nobel laureates  Paul Krugman  and  Joseph Stiglitz . The move by the BOJ governor to
end deflation with large bond purchases has been cheered by
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde ,
Asian Development Bank President Takehiko Nakao and the Japanese
business establishment.  Yet markets are raising troubling questions about Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s revival plans -- dubbed Abenomics -- of
which Kuroda’s bond-buying is a critical part. On Thursday, the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average plunged more than 5 percent. The
broader Topix lost 3.8 percent, after a 6.9 percent drop on  May
23 , its biggest one-day decline since the March 2011 tsunami and
nuclear disaster. It’s now down 11 percent since May 22. That
officially puts  Japan  in correction mode.  What’s going on? Investors, who have driven the Nikkei up
30 percent since the beginning of the year, are unnerved by bond
yields that continue to gyrate despite the huge purchases by the
BOJ. Kuroda has tried to calm fears, insisting that he sees no
signs of “excessively bullish expectations” in the stock-market boom. But the markets are clearly reading his words as
pro forma: What else is he going to say, that he suddenly has
doubts about Abenomics?  Possible Delays  Some of the sell-off represents simple profit-taking. Some
reflects impatience. Investors no longer seem content to wait
for Abe to reveal the most difficult part of his strategy -- the
politically controversial structural reforms that will be
necessary to fully revive the Japanese economy. Although the
prime minister had promised to lay out his plans next month,
there has been talk that he might postpone the announcement
until after July’s elections for the upper house of the
legislature, which his  Liberal Democratic Party  is expected to
win handily. Delay is no longer an option: Unless they see
details soon, markets will probably remain volatile.  More worrisome for Japan’s leaders, investors are also
beginning to question the other pillars of Abenomics -- Kuroda’s
bond-buying, and a yen that has dropped 20 percent in value
since November.  Abe’s plan was for BOJ largesse to lift equity prices,
fueling what surrogates call a “confidence effect” and
spurring  consumer spending . Yet the stock-market boom has
largely been driven by overseas investors. Too few Japanese own
stocks, and for those who do, holdings tend to be too small to
drive spending. About 40 percent of stocks are owned by the
richest 20 percent of the population; two-thirds of stockholders
are older than 60.  Richard Katz, editor-in-chief of the New York-based
Oriental Economist Report, is among those who think the recent
boom has been speculative; it’s not as if Japanese companies
have suddenly become more efficient or more responsive to
shareholder gripes. “The alleged wealth effect from the stock
market rally is more of an advertising slogan from the PR firm
of Abenomics’ happy talk than a serious economic analysis,”
Katz says.  The BOJ’s ultraloose polices are also proving problematic.
As investors consider the possibility of a reflated Japan, they
are bidding up yields. Each surge is prompting the BOJ to come
to the rescue with a few trillion dollars here and a few
trillion there. As the frequency, speed and magnitude of these
interventions grow, Kuroda is creating a pattern of moral hazard
that the BOJ will be hard-pressed to break.  Fanciful Notions  How does Japan expect bondholders to sit by quietly if
inflation increases to 2 percent, Kuroda’s declared target? Yes,
the country’s financial system is unique, with more than 90
percent of government IOUs held domestically. But the idea that
banks, companies, pension funds, universities, endowments,
insurance companies, government-run institutions, the postal
savings system and individuals (many of whom are elderly and
living on a fixed income) won’t sell is just fanciful.  “If you believe Kuroda, why would you hold bonds,
especially when you can sell near all-time price highs and yield
lows?” says Sean Corrigan, the chief investment strategist at
Diapason Commodities Management SA in Lausanne,  Switzerland .
Unless government tax revenue surges along with bond yields, Abe
and Kuroda will have some explaining to do.  The rest of  Asia  is beginning to worry that Japan won’t be
able get enough new money into its  bond market  to support the
irrational expectations of investors. Shin Je Yoon, chairman of
 South Korea ’s Financial Services Commission, wants  Seoul  to
prepare for the possible failure of Abenomics. That, according
to the Maeil Business newspaper, includes bolstering  Korea ’s
foreign exchange reserves. Japan’s stock market has been on a
wild ride these last few months. It’s just beginning.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 