-- Hagel Set for Vietnam Embrace as Wary Asia Eyes Rising China
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-05-31T14:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/hagel-set-for-vietnam-embrace-as-asian-leaders-eye-rising-china.html
When Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
served in  Southeast Asia  as a U.S. Army sergeant, Nguyen Tan Dung fought to expel him and other American troops from Vietnam.  More than four decades later, Dung, 63, is Vietnam’s prime
minister. He will be among the Asian leaders seeking Hagel’s
reassurance that the U.S. will maintain a strong regional
presence to counter a more assertive  China .  As top defense officials gather in  Singapore , Hagel must
balance concerns among U.S. allies about China’s territorial
ambitions against a need to cooperate with President Xi
Jinping’s government in halting North Korea’s nuclear weapons
program. Disputes over fish, oil and gas in waters off China’s
coasts risk disrupting trade among emerging Asian powers that
are driving global economic growth.  China and the U.S. have the “biggest responsibilities” to
take practical steps for regional peace, Dung said in a speech
tonight in Singapore. “We attach special importance to the
roles played by a vigorously rising China and by the United
States, a Pacific power.”  The U.S. is “on track” with its plans to boost security
ties with  Asia , Hagel, 66, told reporters en route to Singapore.
“We have been undertaking more new bilateral initiatives with
partners than we ever have.”  President  Barack Obama , who will meet Xi in California on
June 7, last month said U.S. budget cuts wouldn’t affect the
administration’s bid to focus on Asia while winding down its
presence in Iraq and Afghanistan. That includes money for
weapons systems in Japan and  South Korea , a rotational
deployment of marines in  Australia  and enhancing Philippine
maritime capabilities.  ‘Main Doubt’  “The main doubt among countries in this region is whether
the U.S. can sustain its rebalancing” to Asia, said  Termsak
Chalermpalanupap , a visiting research fellow at the Institute of
Southeast Asian Studies in Singapore. “As long as the U.S.
helps maintain the rule of law” its greater focus will be
welcome, he said.  The White House has also underscored moves to cooperate
with China despite disagreements over how strongly to respond to
North Korea’s nuclear and missile tests, Iran’s weapons program
and Syria’s civil war. The administration has repeatedly accused
China of a massive cyber-espionage campaign aimed at stealing
U.S. military and commercial technology.  Obama “is firmly committed to building a relationship
defined by higher levels of practical cooperation and greater
levels of trust, while managing whatever differences and
disagreements that may arise between us,” U.S. National
Security Adviser Tom Donilon told Xi in Beijing on May 27.  ‘Pretty Hard’  Hagel said he would discuss in Singapore the need for
better cyber-security measures, and plans to meet informally
with lower-level Chinese officials. He didn’t directly address
allegation of China’s involvement in cyber attacks, saying
“it’s pretty hard to prove that they are directed by any
specific entity, but we can tell where they come from.”  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said today his
country wants to exchange views with the U.S. on the sidelines
of the meeting.  “We believe that both sides should sit down and carry out
an even-tempered discussion on cybersecurity,” Hong said at a
daily briefing in Beijing. The U.S. and China should “make
joint efforts to maintain a secure, open, transparent
cyberspace.”  Hagel said he has invited his Chinese counterpart to come
to  Washington  for a visit in August.  Qi Jianguo, deputy chief of General Staff of the  People’s
Liberation Army , will lead China’s delegation to the Shangri-La
Dialogue, hosted by the International Institute for Strategic
Studies.  ‘Not Reasonable’  China’s neighbors are making claims in the  South China Sea 
that are “not reasonable” because they want access to oil
resources, according to Ni Lexiong, professor of international
military affairs and diplomacy at the Shanghai University of
Political Science and Law.  “If China doesn’t take back its territory, domestic public
pressure will be very strong,” Ni said by phone.  Miscalculations over territorial disputes may disrupt trade
flows in the waters, Dung said in his speech. He cited
projections that two thirds of global trade will move across the
South China Sea, which Vietnam refers to as the East Sea.  “A single irresponsible action or instigation of conflict
could well lead to the interruption of such huge trade flow,
thus causing unforeseeable consequences not only to regional
economies, but also to the entire world,” he said.  Pentagon Cuts  At the conference, Hagel wants to show the Pentagon’s pivot
toward Asia -- announced in October 2011 by then-Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  -- will be maintained, said a defense
official who briefed reporters this week on condition of
anonymity. The rebalancing will mean that 60 percent of the
Navy’s fleet will be based in the Pacific by 2020, from about 50
percent today.  The Pentagon is slicing about $37 billion off its budget
this year and bracing for as much as $500 billion in cuts over
the next nine years -- the result of a deficit-reduction deal
requiring automatic, across-the-board spending cuts.  Next month the U.S. Pacific Command will hold a joint
exercise with Indonesia for the first time, Army Colonel James
Barker, the command’s director of training and exercises, said
in an interview. The U.S. will also grant permanent funding for
exercises with  Malaysia .  While military exercises with allies are expanding they
“may just not be as robust,” Barker said. “In some cases
we’ve had to scale back the number of troops participating in
exercises.”  Hagel’s ties to Asia run deep. His father served in the
Pacific in World War II. The first former enlisted man to head
the Pentagon, Hagel won two Purple Hearts during his time
serving with the infantry in Vietnam in the late 1960s and came
back a skeptic of military power.  “The only thing we can predict is that wars are
unpredictable, and they remain a fundamentally human endeavor,”
he said in a May 25 commencement address at the U.S. Military
Academy at  West Point , New York.  Resource Conflicts  Hagel’s three years of experience on  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s board
prior to joining the Pentagon may prove useful in managing
disputes in the South China Sea. Besides fishermen, oil and gas
companies have been at the forefront of conflicts in the waters.  Since 2010, when then-Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  warned
against intimidating companies in the waters, China has cut the
cables of survey ships working for Vietnam, chased away an
exploration vessel near the  Philippines  and sent its first deep-water drilling rig to the region. Last year, China National
Offshore Oil Corp. invited bids for exploration blocks Vietnam
had awarded to companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and OAO
Gazprom.  Chinese Navy ships in March visited James Shoal off
Malaysia, an area near where  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. have oil and gas operations. Last month, China
moved to allow tourists to visit the Paracel Islands, which it
took by force from Vietnam in 1974.  ‘Clear Message’  The Philippines last week protested after a Chinese naval
ship escorted a fishing vessel at a shoal it occupies, after
losing effective control of the Scarborough Shoal to China a
year ago. President  Benigno Aquino  last week pledged more funds
to modernize the military and said a second refurbished U.S.
Coast Guard ship would arrive in August.  “Our message to the world is clear: What is ours is ours
and we can fight back and defend ourselves from threats,”
Aquino said in a speech to the Philippine Navy in Cavite City.  Vietnam’s Dung has also sought to strengthen his country’s
defenses. On a visit to Russia this month he met with crew
members training to operate a Kilo-class submarine, one of six
Vietnam plans to buy.  Hagel’s planned meeting with Dung in Singapore could send a
positive message to the region, said Richard Bush, director of
the Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies at the  Brookings
Institution  in Washington.  “He can’t go wrong by playing up the ability and
willingness of former enemies finding a path to
reconciliation,” Bush said, referring to Hagel. “There are
other former adversaries in Asia that could learn from that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  