-- Mahindra Net Income Beats Estimates After SUV Sales Increase
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-05-30T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/mahindra-net-income-beats-estimates-after-suv-sales-increase-1-.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s
largest maker of sport-utility vehicles, reported profit that
beat analyst estimates as rising demand for SUVs boosted sales.
The shares rose to a record.  Net income , excluding units, increased to 8.89 billion
rupees ($158 million) in the three months ended March from 8.74
billion rupees, the Mumbai-based company said yesterday. That
surpassed the 7.6 billion-rupee median of 39  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of utility vehicles and tractors
rose to 103.5 billion rupees from 92.4 billion rupees.  Chairman  Anand Mahindra  is counting on sustained demand for
SUVs to boost sales after industrywide utility vehicle sales
surged 52 percent, compared with a 2.2 percent increase in
passenger vehicles, in the year ended March. Mahindra’s range of
SUVs, from 579,000 rupees to 2.07 million rupees,  helped it
post the biggest jump in volumes among India’s top five
automakers in the period. It forecasts growth in the segment
will continue to outpace passenger cars.  “Mahindra will gain from higher utility vehicle sales as
well as a decrease in raw material costs,” Mitul Shah, an
analyst at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. in Mumbai, said before the
earnings announcement. “Elections are coming up next year, so
there will be an increase in demand for utility vehicles, as
well as an increase in rural spending will drive demand for
tractors.”  Shares Surge  Mahindra, which is also  India ’s largest maker of tractors,
rose 4.5 percent, the most since January 2012, to 1,004.65
rupees in Mumbai trading yesterday. The stock was the  biggest
gainer  on the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex, which rose 0.3 percent.  India’s national elections are due next year, after the
current government completes its five-year term. There is
expectation the government may offer some more incentives to
people living in villages before the elections, Shah said.  “We expect the Indian economy to stage a mild,
consumption-led recovery in fiscal 2014,” the company said in
the statement. “Subject to a normal monsoon, as forecast by the
Indian Meteorological Department, agricultural growth is likely
to see considerable improvement in fiscal 2014, leading to a
steady moderation in inflation and a bounce back in rural
incomes, and consumer demand.”  India’s statistics office has estimated the nation’s
economy expanded 5 percent in the year ended March, the weakest
pace in a decade. The office will give its next estimate
tomorrow.  Mahindra, which started making sports utility vehicles with
the Willys Jeep in 1945, has spent 12 billion rupees in the past
four years to introduce the Xylo and the XUV500. The growth in
demand for SUVs over the past few years has attracted a number
of overseas companies from Toyota Motor Corp. to Renault SA to
unveil models in the segment.  “SUVs grew a lot last year as the industry caught up with
the global trend,”  Pawan Goenka , president automotive and  farm
equipment  at Mahindra, said yesterday. “I expect another two
years of higher growth than passenger cars before SUV sales grow
in line with passenger cars.”  -- With assistance from Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai. Editors:
Suresh Seshadri, Arijit Ghosh  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  