-- Thai 10-Year Bonds Fall as Risk of Capital Curbs Spurs Outflows
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-05-30T03:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/thai-10-year-bonds-fall-as-risk-of-capital-curbs-spurs-outflows.html
Thailand ’s 10-year bonds fell for a
seventh day, sending the yield to an eight-week high, as global
funds cut holdings amid concern policy makers will act to stem
capital inflows.  Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said yesterday that an
amended regulation published this week in the Royal Gazette
enables the central bank to set conditions or collect fees on
funds flowing in or out of the country. The Bank of Thailand has
prepared measures to combat baht volatility, and will refrain
from using them if they aren’t necessary, Assistant Governor
Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said yesterday. The currency reached a
16-year high last month as fund inflows quickened.  “There’s lingering concern about capital-control measures
while we see downward pressure on the baht,” said  Koji Fukaya ,
chief executive officer and foreign-exchange strategist at FPG
Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “Such an environment discourages
foreign investors from putting money in Thai bonds.”  The yield on the 3.625 percent notes due June 2023 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.50 percent as of
9:44 a.m. in Bangkok, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
the highest level since April 4.  Global funds sold $343 million more local sovereign debt
than they bought in May through yesterday, the first monthly
outflow since September 2011, according to data from the Thai
Bond Market Association. They added a net $12 billion to
holdings in the first four months of this year.  Interest Rates  The baht touched a four-month low after the central bank
lowered the one-day bond repurchase rate by a quarter of a
percentage point to 2.5 percent yesterday and said it is ready
to act on monetary policy if needed.  Finance Minister Kittiratt said the reduction was “too
little,” adding fund inflows may resume as local interest rates
remain relatively high. The Thai rate compares with a maximum of
0.25 percent in the U.S. and 0.1 percent in  Japan .  “The political pressure for more rate reductions will
probably continue and I think it’s possible to see another
cut,” FPG’s Fukaya said. “Obviously, the rate cut is aimed to
reduce appreciation pressure on the baht and so, the downward
pressure on the currency will also continue for a while.”  The baht was little changed at 30.19 per dollar after
reaching 30.25 earlier, the weakest level since Jan. 15,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency lost 2.9
percent in May, poised for a second monthly decline and the
largest in a year.  The baht has advanced 1.3 percent this year, the best
performance after  China ’s  yuan  among the 11 most-traded Asian
currencies. It reached 28.56 on April 22 and April 19, the
strongest level since July 1997. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, rose eight basis points to 6.91 percent.  Thailand doesn’t want to use measures to curb capital
inflows, Areepong Bhoocha-Oom, permanent secretary of finance
ministry, said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday. “If you
start to go to the measures of capital control, the pension
funds, all these things, the U.S. and the U.K., they cannot
invest in Thailand anymore or in Asean anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  