-- Airlines Converge on Africa as Local Carriers Meet World
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-31T16:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/airlines-converge-on-africa-as-local-carriers-seek-global-status.html
Africa  is being carved up once again
as airlines funnel commuter workers into the booming mining
market, with Sub-Saharan carriers staking their claims against
global rivals in the world’s least-developed travel market.  Carriers from Addis Ababa to  Cape Town  are counting on new
jets and discount fares to pile on passengers and win major-airline status while seeking to overcome the continent’s
reputation for graft, state meddling and poor safety. African
passenger traffic grew 6.9 percent last year, ranking the region
second only to the  Middle East .  Standing in the way of companies such as Ethiopian Airlines
Enterprise, among the first to fly  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787, and Kenya
Airways, which aims to add bases across Africa, is the clout of
carriers such as  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and emerging-market
operators led by  Turkish Airlines  and Emirates. More than 200
aviation executives will discuss the state of the industry next
week when IATA hold its annual meeting in Cape Town.  “It would be naive to think that our backyard will not be
attacked,” said Nico Bezuidenhout, deputy chief executive
officer at  South African Airways , the regional No. 1. “African
aviation may never be as big as in  Europe  or  North America , but
it does have scope for being two or three times the size it is
now.”  South African, Ethiopian and Kenya Airways face a “window
of opportunity” before larger competitors pour in capacity in a
major way, Elijah Chingosho, secretary general of the African
Airlines Association, said in a phone interview.  Lowest Profit  They’re not starting out from the strongest position.
African airlines have lagged behind those in other  emerging
markets . Operations in Africa are expected to make a profit of
$100 million in 2013, the least for any region, based on
projections in March from the  International Air Transport
Association .  The continent had a loss of $100 million in 2012, when it
was the only unprofitable market worldwide, according to IATA.
Demographic changes should result in a middle class about the
same size as that in the U.S. within 20 years, according to Hadi Akoum, head of sub-Saharan sales at planemaker Airbus SAS.  “Mining and natural resources are the main drivers, but we
see more and more tourism and trade within Africa,” he said.  Mounting Losses  SAA recent history illustrates both the potential and
failures of the continent’s carriers. After the end of apartheid
in 1994, the Johannesburg-based airline became the first African
recruit to the Lufthansa and United Airlines-led Star Alliance,
and looked set to establish a global brand.  Instead, it accumulated 9.3 billion rand ($927 million) of
losses in the nine years through March 2012, the latest period
for which numbers are available. The decline was accompanied by
management upheaval that culminated in the October resignations
of CEO Siza Mzimela and Chairwoman Cheryl Carolus, which led the
opposition Democratic Alliance party to call for SAA to be sold.  Deputy CEO Bezuidenhout said a turnaround plan targeting a
“fair share of African flows” has been submitted to the
government and that new chief Monwabisi Kalawe takes over
tomorrow. The company has also struck a code-share deal with Abu
Dhabi-based Etihad, the No. 3 Gulf carrier, where CEO  James Hogan  says he’s keen to boost access to a “changing” Africa.  Turkey-Kinshasa  “It has a growing population, markets are opening, people
are traveling,” Hogan said by telephone, adding that the accord
with SAA and an earlier one with Kenya Airways “changed our
footprint overnight to one of the strongest African networks.’  While Etihad, which has established accords with smaller
airlines based around minority shareholdings, says its partners
gain access to destinations they wouldn’t ordinarily serve,
other global carriers are bypassing local operators.  Temel Kotil, CEO of Turkish Airlines, cites the example of
a new service between Istanbul and Kinshasa in the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo as evidence of his company’s intention to tap
even minor African destinations. The route is operated with a
Boeing 737-900 single-aisle plane seating about 150 passengers.  “As we grow in Africa we can provide the link to Europe,”
Kotil said in an interview. “Africa is very important for us.”  Like Etihad, Emirates and Qatar Airways Ltd.,  Turkish
Airlines (THYAO)  is seeking to establish its home hub as a global
transfer point for inter-continental travel -- a model that has
proved tough to combat even in developed markets such as Europe.  Congo Experiment  Among European carriers themselves, the largest,  Air
France-KLM (AF)  Group, serves 42 African locations from Paris and
Amsterdam and chose Johannesburg as one of the first destination
for its fleet of Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos. Lufthansa also
flies an A380 double-decker to the tip of Africa.  Air France-KLM, which plans to lift African capacity 8
percent this year, also owns a 27 percent stake in Nairobi-based
Kenya Airways, bought by KLM in 1996 for $26 million.  Expansion plans remain hobbled by restrictive air traffic
rights. FastJet, backed by  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  founder  Stelios Haji-Ioannou , is targeting eastern Africa with the aim of becoming
the first discount carrier to span the region with a fleet of
leased  Airbus SAS A319  jets. Efforts to fly beyond  Tanzania
have been stymied by a lack of government approval.  FastJet’s inroads into  South Africa , through an affiliate
set up with local investors, will initially focus on domestic
operations, CEO Ed Winter said on April 24 when he unveiled the
expansion. The inaugural service between Cape Town and
Johannesburg is scheduled to begin in early July.  Poor Safety  Notwithstanding its opportunities, the African market faces
more economic and safety challenges than most other emerging
regions. The prevalence of cash over credit means revenue
collection models differ from those in established markets, with
sales dependent on travel agents and online bookings requiring
leeway for money transfers to be made days later.  The hurdles confronting African carriers are on display in
 Nigeria , the continent’s most populous country, which has
struggled to build airline capacity.  Air Nigeria, the successor to the  Virgin Nigeria (IMARANF)  venture in
which Virgin Atlantic originally held 49 percent before
existing, ceased flying last year amid a battle with the
government over operational plans. Dana Air, another local
airline, had its operating certificate temporarily suspended
last year after a crash that killed 159 people.  Blacklisted Carriers  The poor safety record hangs as the biggest reputational
cloud over African airlines and the region at large. Local
carriers represent more than half those barred from operating
into the European Union under an aviation blacklist.  “At an industry level, safety will forever be an issue on
the African skies for as long as we remain the graveyard of
second-hand aircraft,” Bezuidenhout said.  IATA aims to bring African airline accident rates down to
the current global average by 2015 which “is a big challenge,”
Guenther Matschnigg, senior vice president for safety operations
at IATA said in an interview. The airline group has identified
15 non-member African airlines that it wants to help pass safety
audit made standard for carriers to help them meet standards
next year, Matschnigg said.  “There is a lot of opportunity for airlines in Africa,”
JLS Consulting Director  John Strickland  said in an interview.
“But local carriers have to claim ownership on the basis of
competitive service. If others don’t do what Ethiopian, Kenya
and Fastjet are doing, then the continent will just remain open
season for outsiders to come in and to pick the best crops.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  