-- Making Money Trading Energy Has Become Harder, Vattenfall Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-05-30T11:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/making-money-trading-energy-has-become-harder-vattenfall-says.html
It’s becoming harder to earn money
from buying and selling energy in Europe as prices slump and
short-term weather factors drive trading, according to
Vattenfall AB, the Nordic region’s biggest utility.  “It is tougher to make money from energy trading these
days, compared to a few years ago,” Stefan Dohler, Vattenfall’s
head of asset optimization and trading, said yesterday in an
interview in  Stockholm . “Markets are maturing and margins are
becoming thinner.”  German power for next-year delivery, the European benchmark
contract, fell to an eight-year low on May 2 as the longest
recession in the single-currency era curbed energy use.
Increased generation from solar panels and wind turbines have
made prices more volatile and weather-dependent while the
influence of neighboring markets has risen, Dohler said.  “Price volatility is growing on the short-term markets
and, consequently, the overall trading focus is moving to the
prompt market,” he said. “You need to understand the impact of
weather on prices much better than in the past, since it is
becoming an increasingly decisive factor. Cross-border country
spreads are becoming more important.”  Vattenfall is the biggest power generator in the Nordic
region, where it produces electricity by running water through
turbines and splitting atoms at nuclear reactors. Average next-day Nordic  prices  dropped 33 percent to 31.21 euros ($40.52) a
megawatt-hour last year, the lowest since 2007, on the Nord Pool
Spot AS exchange in Oslo as higher-than-usual hydro output
depressed prices.  Vattenfall’s trading unit has 230  employees , including
traders and analysts, and buys and sells power, natural gas,
oil, biomass, carbon emission permits and freight from
Stockholm, Hamburg and Amsterdam.  Expanding Trading  The company bought and sold 1,930 terawatt-hours of power
in 2012, compared with 1,402 terawatt-hours at EON SE and 1,177
terawatt-hours at  RWE AG (RWE) , according to Thorsten Ziegler, a
Vattenfall spokesman in Hamburg. Power consumption in  Germany ,
Europe’s biggest market, was 526.6 terawatt-hours last year,
according to German energy lobby BDEW.  State-owned Vattenfall’s  net income  rose to 16.9 billion
kronor ($2.6 billion) in 2012 from 11.1 billion a year earlier.
It doesn’t publish separate profit numbers for the trading unit.  “Our ambition is to maintain net contributions, which have
varied between 2 billion and 3 billion Swedish kronor a year,
but it will be more difficult to achieve that level in the
future,” Dohler said.  The company is expanding energy trading outside of its
traditional regions into neighboring areas, Dohler said. Stephen
Asplin, Vattenfall’s head of trading, said in November the
company would start trading French natural gas and Italian power
in the first half of this year.  “The trading environment is changing, so we need to
adjust, to remain as good as we have been until now,” Dohler
said yesterday. “You can create a lot of value if you are
skilled, and have a good understanding of volatility and are
able to grasp the opportunities this offers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  