-- Talisman Energy Rises on Potential Asset Sales: Calgary Mover
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-30T20:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/talisman-energy-rises-on-potential-asset-sales-calgary-mover.html
Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , the oil and
natural gas producer focused on the Americas and Southeast  Asia ,
rose after Chief Executive Officer Hal Kvisle said it may sell
 North Sea  assets.  Talisman gained 1.5 percent to C$12.35 at the close in
Toronto. The company, based in Calgary, may expand a joint
venture in the North Sea with Sinopec Group, as  China 
Petrochemical Corp. is known, to include Talisman’s Norway
assets, Kvisle said at a conference hosted by Sanford C.
Bernstein in  New York , which was webcast.  Kvisle, CEO since September, said in March he’s targeting
as much as $3 billion from asset sales or joint ventures over 12
to 18 months. Talisman “could” split up the company and
selling North Sea assets would be a first step in focusing on
 North America , he said. Talisman is not seeking to sell the Asia
business, he said.  “Any visibility for them to reduce their exposure to the
North Sea or divest that asset completely would be viewed
positively by the market,” Chris Feltin, a Calgary-based
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. who rates the company the
equivalent of a hold, said in a phone interview today. “Event-driven funds” are focused on Talisman selling assets and
breaking up the company, he said.  “The Americas and Asia taken together have a lot of
synergies,” Kvisle said, reaffirming his view that Talisman is
stronger with the Americas and Asia together.  The company has seen “great interest” in its North
Duvernay shale assets in  Alberta  for which it began providing
information to potential buyers this month, he said. Asian
buyers would want to partner with Talisman while super-majors
would want to buy the property outright, he said.  Talisman sold a 49 percent stake in its U.K. unit to
Sinopec for $1.5 billion last year. Lv Dapeng, a spokesman for
Beijing-based Sinopec, didn’t immediately return a phone call to
his office today, outside of normal business hours in China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  