-- Malkins Prevail in Fight for IPO of Empire State Building
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-05-30T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/malkins-prevail-in-fight-for-ipo-of-empire-state-building.html
It took less time to build the Empire
State Building.  Fifteen months after filing for an initial public offering,
the Malkin family said yesterday it had won enough investor
votes to form a real estate investment trust featuring
 Manhattan ’s signature skyscraper and 20 other properties.
Victory didn’t come easily for the family’s Malkin Holdings LLC,
which had to fend off a group of shareholders opposed to  the
deal , poised to be the second-largest U.S. IPO of a REIT.  The fight was uncommon and uncommonly contentious for an
IPO plan, most of which sail through with few hitches. Dissident
investors said they were being shortchanged by  Peter Malkin  and
his son, Anthony, who run the entity that controls the 102-story
Empire State Building. The Malkins said the opposition either
misunderstood the deal or was lying in an effort to derail it.  “You had 2,800 people who had a tie” to the building,
Lawrence Longua, a professor of real estate finance at  New York
University , said in an interview before yesterday’s
announcement, referring to existing investors in the skyscraper,
many of whom have held their stakes since the 1960s. “The
individual stories made it more an emotional event than a
business transaction.”  Buyout Provision  The Malkins, who announced plans for an IPO in February
2012 and began formally seeking votes in January, will conclude
the solicitation in “due course,” Hugh Burns, a spokesman with
Sard Verbinnen & Co., said yesterday. After receiving written
notice, holdouts will have 10 days to switch their vote to yes
or else receive a token $100 for each of their shares. Empire
State Building units may be worth more than $300,000 apiece,
according to the offering statement.  New York  State Supreme Court Justice O. Peter Sherwood on
April 30 rejected a challenge to that provision. Holdout
investors are appealing the decision, Richard Edelman, a leader
of the group opposing the share sale, said yesterday. He’s
planning a conference call tonight to discuss the situation with
investors.  The $100 buyout is just one of the perceived inequities the
dissidents have attacked. Others include the $75 million
earmarked for promoting the plan, recoverable to investors only
if the REIT were approved; an estimated $304 million in shares
the Malkins proposed to collect by treating the conversion as a
sale; and accounting that provides investors with only about
half the Empire State Building’s $2.5 billion estimated value,
with the rest going to a sublease holder majority-owned by the
estate of  Leona Helmsley .  Rising Income  Some investors prefer to keep a reliable income stream that
is distributed to unit-holders under the current structure. The
skyscraper, completed in 1931 after about 14 months of
construction, is poised to see net operating income almost
double to $160.2 million by 2018 as renovations are completed,
according to the prospectus.  The current partnership couldn’t continue because of the
Helmsley estate’s need to liquidate, the Malkins have said. They
also say that the tower has been hamstrung by an archaic
governance structure, and that as part of a REIT it would be
able to raise debt and equity to boost growth prospects. In
addition, the plan offers liquidity by enabling investors to
sell shares of the REIT.  Under the proposal, the Malkins and their associates would
receive shares and units valued at almost $731 million, based on
an appraisal of the properties slated for the REIT. That
includes the $304 million that some investors have complained
about.  David Orlowsky, 66, a retired accountant living in  Miami
Beach ,  Florida , said his vote for the REIT was an expression of
faith in the Malkins.  ‘Doing Good’  “I’ve been with them for a long, long time,” Orlowsky
said. “I’ve only had good results from the partnerships I got
into. Lots of my clients used to invest with Wien and Malkin,
and they always seem to be doing good for their investors,” he
said, referring to Lawrence Wien, who helped orchestrate the
syndication of the tower in 1961 and was Peter Malkin’s father-in-law.  Krystal McMurry Melton, 31, of Niceville, Florida, voted
against the plan. Being an Empire State Building investor has a
value beyond mere money, she said.  “I do not want to sell because I would like to pass it on
to my son for him to have a piece of American history,” said
Melton, full-time mother to 16-month-old Patrick. Melton said
she received a half-share from her father, who acquired it from
a securities trader around 2003.  Investors who objected to the offering have themselves
faced criticism by the Malkins.  Conference Calls  Edelman, 58, the grandson of an original unit-holder, has
operated a  website , organized a phone bank and conference calls
for shareholders. He and his cousin, Steven Edelman, were
mentioned in multiple regulatory filings by the Malkins, who
told investors the dissidents’ conclusions about the offering
were false and should be ignored.  The cousins “and those working for them are using lies and
deceptions to influence votes,” the Malkins said in an April 18
filing. “Malkin Holdings thinks anyone who votes on their
message will be exposed to economic harm and will have a claim
against the Edelmans.”  Richard Edelman, an online business development consultant
from Solana Beach,  California , said his group has spent about
$120,000 on its efforts, about half of that donated by Empire
State Building co-investors.  Debating Ideas  “We wanted it to be a debate of ideas,” he said in an
interview before the approval announcement. “The Malkins
instead chose to assault and attack investors who wanted to have
that debate. And they did it in a public way.”  The Malkins disagree with that characterization, Burns
said.  Others who challenged the proposal include Robert
Machleder, a former partner in the Malkins’ law firm who
objected to the $304 million in stakes they would collect; and
Andrew Penson, the New York real estate investor who owns Grand
Central Terminal.  Penson, a member of a company that holds about 10 Empire
State Building shares, submitted affidavits in support of the
opposition. He said on an April 4 conference call that the
Malkins had drafted the proposal in a way that is “extremely
favorable” to them, without first consulting unit-holders.  For at least one Empire State Building investor who favors
the REIT, the dissidents miss the point.  Investor Reward  The offering is a way to be rewarded for an investment that
has been close to illiquid over the years, said Seth Poppel, 69,
of  Seattle , the operator of a company that licenses celebrity
high-school yearbook pictures. All the opposition-produced
delays have done is increase the risk that the stock will hit
the market at a bearish time, he said.  “I’m less concerned with counting their money than
counting my money,” said Poppel, whose unit was handed down
from his grandfather. “The piece of the pie I get looks pretty
good to me, and I’m not an unsophisticated investor.”  To promote the plan, the Malkins set up an investors-only
website, held conference calls and produced a DVD touting the
REIT and showing shareholders how to file a ballot. They hired
MacKenzie Partners Inc., a New York-based proxy service, to make
calls to and take questions from unit-holders; and a legal team
that includes the firms Proskauer Rose LLP, Clifford Chance LLP
and Dewey Pegno & Kramarsky LLP.  Personal Call  Howard Wagenheim, 70, said he was visiting friends in  Las
Vegas  earlier this month when Anthony Malkin called his mobile
phone and tried to persuade him to change his vote to yes.
Wagenheim, who owns three Empire State Building units, said they
talked for more than a half-hour.  “I told him flat-out that I wouldn’t change my vote until
I get a certified envelope that says he got his 80 percent,”
said Wagenheim, a Navy veteran and retired restaurateur from
Arlington,  Texas .  The clash with investors has been the rare controversy for
a building that routinely generates  positive publicity , from the
movies it appears in to the parade of colors with which it
lights the New York night. The skyscraper was blue and purple on
May 10 in honor of Police Memorial Week, and yellow on April 25
for Project Sunshine, a nonprofit organization that helps
children with health problems.  A 10-year renovation of the skyscraper is scheduled to be
mostly complete by the end of 2016. In addition to making the
building more energy-efficient, the project involves knocking
out walls to attract larger tenants willing to sign longer
leases at higher rents.  Midtown South  The tower’s location, at Fifth Avenue and 34th Street, is
close to the northern fringe of midtown south, an office
submarket whose appeal to technology, media and fashion tenants
has driven its  vacancy rate  to the lowest in the U.S. The
building’s offices were about 67 percent occupied as of Sept.
30, the most recent figure disclosed in regulatory filings.  “They’ve really done a great job repositioning the
building,” said Ruth Colp-Haber, founding partner of Wharton
Property Advisors Inc., who represents Manhattan office tenants,
including some who have taken space there. “It used to be very
small, sleepy tenants. Most tenants, if you even brought up the
Empire State Building as a potential relocation site, they
wouldn’t set foot in there.”  Tenants include  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and  Coty Inc. (COTY)   The observatories, a destination for tourists from all over
the world, netted a $71.2 million profit last year, an 18
percent jump from 2011, according to the tower’s annual report.  The skyscraper’s allure may not matter much when the REIT
finally hits the market, according to Longua of New York
University. Individual investors tend to own about 15 percent of
the typical REIT’s stock, while the rest “is all institutions,
mutual funds and so forth,” he said.  “It is New York, it’s iconic, and people are anticipating
it will get a lot of retail investors,” Longua said. “I’m not
sure if that’s going to be the case. Nobody’s going to be
dazzled by the fact that it’s the Empire State Building. The
question is, what do the numbers look like?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  