-- Hamburg Tax Office Finds Signs of German Energy Market Fraud
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-05-30T13:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/hamburg-tax-office-finds-signs-of-german-energy-market-fraud-1-.html
The Hamburg tax office is probing
possible cases of fraud in  Germany ’s power and gas markets,
according to Daniel Stricker, a spokesman for the city’s finance
authority.  “We have indications of such cases and we are looking into
it,” Stricker said today by phone. He declined to give further
details.  The German Federal Tax Office this month said it found
signs of fraud in  Europe ’s biggest energy market that may be
similar to the value-added tax scam that roiled carbon permit
markets in 2009 and 2010. The authority warned traders of the
cases and the risks of engaging in illegal trading activities.  According to German tax law, the finance ministries in the
federal states have the responsibility to collect taxes and
investigate in case of fraud. German law also allows the states’
finance ministries to search offices or premises of companies in
the case of suspicions of  tax fraud . Hamburg is one of Germany’s
16 Federal States.  Vattenfall AB, the biggest Nordic utility whose trading
unit is based in Hamburg, is aware of the Federal Tax Office’s
probe into possible VAT fraud, Stefan Dohler, the company’s head
of asset optimization and trading, said yesterday in an
interview. The Stockholm-based company is not part of the
investigation and has not been consulted by officials, he said.  VAT fraud in the European carbon market involved chains of
bogus import companies set up to reclaim taxes that had never
been paid. A Frankfurt court in 2011 convicted six men for
evading a total of 260 million euros ($337 million) in taxes on
carbon emission trades using the same tactics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  