-- Andreessen Horowitz Said to Hire SuccessFactors Founder Dalgaard
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-05-30T17:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/andreessen-horowitz-said-to-hire-successfactors-founder-dalgaard.html
Lars Dalgaard, the founder of
SuccessFactors Inc. who announced his departure from  SAP AG (SAP)  last
week, is joining venture firm Andreessen Horowitz LLC as a
general partner, people familiar with the matter said.  The hiring of Dalgaard, who’s been running SAP’s cloud
software division for more than a year, will be announced as
soon as today, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the news isn’t yet public.  Andreessen Horowitz,  founded  four years ago by technology
veterans Marc Andreessen and  Ben Horowitz , has been bulking up
its staff with accomplished entrepreneurs and investors, after
raising $2.7 billion for its first three funds. The Menlo Park,
California-based firm hired angel investor Chris Dixon in
November as the seventh investing partner.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor
in Andreessen Horowitz.  Dalgaard, a native of Denmark, founded Web-based software
maker SuccessFactors in 2001, leading the company through its
initial public offering in 2007. He remained CEO until Walldorf,
Germany-based SAP bought the company for about $3.4 billion in
2012, stepping up competition with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   SAP said on May 24 that Dalgaard is stepping down effective
June 1 to become an investor, though he will continue to advise
the company.  Dalgaard joins a firm that’s been investing in both
consumer and business software companies, often at valuations in
the hundreds of millions of dollars. The higher-profile business
bets for Andreessen Horowitz include Box Inc., the maker of
collaboration software, and Nicira Inc., the networking software
company that was acquired by  VMware Inc. (VMW)  last year for $1.26
billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  