-- Apple Giving Pegatron Orders to Reduce Supply Risk
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-05-30T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/apple-giving-orders-to-pegatron-to-cut-risk-analysts-say.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is giving orders for its
new lower-priced iPhone to  Pegatron Corp. (4938)  as part of a strategy
to reduce risk and diversify its supply chain, said Vincent Chen, an analyst at Yuanta Financial Holdings Co.  Its new handset will have a plastic casing and lower-cost
components and may be released next quarter, said Fubon
Financial Holding Co. analyst Arthur Liao. Taipei-based Pegatron
assembles some iPhone 4 and 4S models while  Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co. (2317)  makes the iPhone 5.  Apple’s newest smartphone, with a retail price of about
$300 to $350, is part of its strategy to regain share from
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , said Liao. By contracting Pegatron, the
Cupertino, California-based company is trying to diversify its
supply chain after production problems limited availability of
the iPhone 5.  “Apple is a very risk-averse company, so they don’t want
to be putting all their orders with one supplier,” said
Yuanta’s Chen, who  recommends  buying shares of both Pegatron and
Hon Hai. Apple may introduce other assemblers beyond Hon Hai and
Pegatron into its supply chain for upcoming products, he said.  Apple’s move to Pegatron is more about its need to
diversify than dissatisfaction with Hon Hai as a supplier, both
analysts said.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple declined to comment on supplier relationships. Simon Hsing, a spokesman for Taipei-based Hon Hai, didn’t answer two
calls to his mobile phone yesterday.  China, Brazil  Hon Hai and Pegatron make iPhones and iPads at facilities
in  China  and  Brazil , Apple said in its  supplier report  released
in January. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based  Quanta Computer Inc. (2382)  makes
iMacs and iPods in China and the U.S., according to the report.  “Pegatron hasn’t really passed the test of doubling output
of iPhone and doesn’t yet know the pain of relocating its
capacity,” Chen said. The company may also lose money in the
first six months of the new order as it bears the cost of
expansion and development before volumes pick up, he said.  “Every new project or product has a learning curve,”
Pegatron Chief Financial Officer Charles Lin told Bloomberg
News. He declined to comment on customers, products, or
profitability.  The new iPhone will have less memory, Apple’s older A5X
processor and a lower resolution front-side camera with total
cost of parts being about $30 less than the iPhone 5, said
Fubon’s Liao, who rates Hon Hai reduce and Pegatron add.  iPhone Demand  Suppliers of the plastic casing include Hon Hai and  Jabil
Circuit Inc. (JBL) , Liao said. The  iPhone 5  uses Apple’s A6 processor
while A5X is used in its  third-generation iPad  released in March
last year.  Pegatron may struggle to boost capacity to make the new
iPhone and has the ability to produce around 3 million per
month, said Liao. Still, getting the order helps elevate the
company’s position in the Apple supply chain after securing the
contract to manufacture the iPad Mini, he said. Apple sold 23
million iPhones  last quarter,  according to company data.  Apple’s share of the global smartphone market fell to 17.3
percent last quarter, from 21 percent three months earlier and
23 percent a year prior, according to IDC Corp. data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries. Samsung’s share climbed to 31.7 percent,
keeping it in top spot.  While Apple’s market share has slipped, it still maintains
its top spot in smartphone sales revenue-per-device, with its
average selling price of $689 putting it more than $280 ahead of
Samsung, which ranks fourth by ASP, according to IDC data.  Scratching on the case of the iPhone 5, released in
September, forced Apple and Hon Hai to tighten quality-control
standards, crimping output, Bloomberg News reported in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  