-- Saudi Ambassador’s Murder Plotter Gets 25-Year Sentence
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-30T20:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/arbabsiar-gets-25-year-sentence-for-plot-to-slay-saudi-envoy.html
Manssor Arbabsiar, an Iranian-American used-car salesman, was sentenced to 25 years in prison
for conspiring with members of the Iranian military to kill
Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to the U.S. with a bomb.  U.S. District Judge John Keenan in Manhattan said today
that a shorter term wouldn’t reflect the seriousness of the
crime. The bombing, which was to have taken place in a
Washington restaurant, would have inflicted “mass casualties”
had it been carried out, the judge said.  Prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan said Arbabsiar and Gholam Shakuri, who the U.S. said
was a member of  Iran ’s Qods Force, hired a man who identified
himself as a member of a Mexican drug cartel to kill Ambassador
Adel Al-Jubeir. The man they approached to be their assassin was
an undercover informant for the U.S., prosecutors said.  Keenan noted that when Arbabsiar, 58, was informed by a co-defendant that 100 to 150 people, including U.S. senators, would
be in the restaurant at the time of the attack, he replied: “No
problem” and “No big deal.”  “He fully realized that this act would likely result in
mass casualties,” Keenan said. “Nothing in the record before
me warrants a sentence of less than 25 years.”  Financial Benefit  Arbabsiar confessed after he was arrested and agreed to
make calls on behalf of the U.S. before he abruptly stopped
cooperating, according to Keenan, who said the defendant was
also to have benefitted financially from the plot. Arbabsiar
said he agreed to pay $1.5 million for the killing and to
arrange down payments for the murder, the government said.  “In a case like this, deterrence is of supreme
importance,” the judge said. “Others who might have financial
or political purposes in engaging in acts of violence against
the United States or its interest must learn the lesson that
such conduct will not be tolerated.”  The U.S. State Department has described the Qods Force as
an arm of the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
Arbabsiar was recruited by his cousin, a high-ranking member of
the Qods Force in Iran, prosecutors said. The plan to
assassinate the ambassador was a “priority” of the group
because of the number of other people who would be killed, the
U.S. alleged.  Qods Bankroll  Qods Force members helped to bankroll the plot, prosecutors
said. The group, designated as a terrorist supporter by the U.S.
Treasury Department, conducts covert operations including
terrorist attacks, assassinations and kidnappings outside of
Iran, prosecutors allege.  A naturalized U.S. citizen, Arbabsiar sold used cars in
 Texas , where his wife and son still live. He said he came to the
U.S. and studied mechanical engineering in Louisiana.  He pleaded guilty in October to traveling in the commission
of a murder-for-hire plot, conspiring to commit a murder for
hire and conspiring to commit an act of terrorism transcending
national boundaries. Today in court he apologized to Keenan.  “Whatever I did wrong, I take responsibility for it. I
can’t change what I did. I have a good heart. I never hurt
anyone,” Arbabsiar said. “I know you have to punish me for the
things I did wrong. I respect that and hopefully one day I can
go home and see my son and my family.”  He could have faced life in prison had he been convicted
after trial, the judge said during the October plea hearing. His
lawyer,  Sabrina Shroff , who had asked for a 10-year term, today
asked for leniency.  ‘True Remorse’  “Mr. Arbabsiar most certainly takes responsibility for his
conduct here,” Shroff said. “He recognizes fully the import of
what it is that could have happened,” she said. “I hope the
court is able to sense his true remorse and his hopes.”  While Shroff’s sentencing memo wasn’t filed publicly,
prosecutors said the defense argued that Arbabsiar suffers from
bipolar disorder, which contributed to his willingness to join
in the assassination plot. A psychiatrist working for the
government disagreed with that diagnosis.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Glen Kopp today cited a report by
probation officials recommending a 25-year prison sentence.  “The defendant’s participation in the instant offense and
his disdain for the lives of potential innocent victims is
disturbing,” Kopp said. “While we do not believe any mental
health issues led him down this path, his motivation to involve
himself in such a horrific crime is unclear.”  Wired Money  Arbabsiar admitted that he wired more than $100,000 into
the country as part of the plot. The funds went through a bank
in New York. Keenan today also ordered him to forfeit $125,000
he made as a result of the plot.  Arbabsiar also traveled to  Mexico  from Iran and met and
recruited the would-be assassin, prosecutors said. The U.S.
secretly recorded some of the conversations in which Arbabsiar
told the undercover source that a relative of his in the Iranian
military wanted the Saudi ambassador killed.  “Kill is better,” Arbabsiar said in a July 2011
conversation, according to a court filing. “This is politics,
OK, it’s not like, eh, personal. This is politics, so these
people, they pay.”  When the case was first announced in 2011, U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder said the U.S. would hold Iran responsible
for any terrorist actions tied to the plot, which he said was
sponsored by the Iranian government. He called the conspiracy a
“flagrant” violation of international law.  The case is U.S. v. Arbabsiar, 11-cr-00897, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in New York at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  