-- Harvard’s Kaplan Says to Succeed Know What You Want
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2013-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/harvard-s-kaplan-says-to-succeed-know-what-you-want.html
“You’ve got to take ownership of your
own life,” says Robert Steven Kaplan.  He’s written “What You’re Really Meant to Do: A Road Map
for Reaching Your Unique Potential” to show people how to find
satisfaction in their careers and their lives.  It’s not a touchy-feely self-help tome, but a step-by-step
guide to finding your true path written by a former investment
banker: Kaplan moved to the  Harvard Business School  in 2005 from
the  Goldman Sachs Group (GS) , where he was vice-chairman.  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: We’re living in tough times in terms of the job
market, so perhaps people don’t have the luxury to do what
they’re really meant to do?  Kaplan: All this is relative to your options. If you’ve got
no option but to wash dishes, my advice is wash dishes. I still
want you to think about your strengths and weaknesses.  I want you to take a little time on the weekend or whatever
to step back. Don’t let  crisis management  become a way of life.  Lundborg: If I’m young and smart, why wouldn’t I go to Wall
Street or Silicon Valley?  Hedgie Depression  Kaplan: It might be the right thing to do if you’re
interested in the markets or tech. But I meet more people who
went to hedge funds or Wall Street who are now in a state of
depression and hate it -- they’re trying to figure out how to
reconnect with what they love.  You’ve got to try to find some joy in what you do, and if
it’s just money, you’re going to run out of gas. If you don’t
love it, you’re going to be mediocre. You’re not going to do
well.  Lundborg: Doesn’t being mediocre on  Wall Street  beat being
mediocre in another job?  Kaplan: Not any more. Wall Street is not as lucrative as it
was, and today it’s even more back-end loaded. You’re going to
have to sustain it for 10 or 15 years.  Every person has to decide what satisfaction is important:
impact on the world, desire to be loved, desire to be important,
to play a role, to do something you have a passion for.  What I’ve learned over a long period of time is not that
money is irrelevant, but if you don’t have any of those things,
you may well find yourself looking back with a lot of bitterness
and regret.  Getting Feedback  Lundborg: So, “know thyself” is still the rule to follow?  Kaplan: You have to understand yourself and a lot of people
do not want to go there. It hurts. You need to understand your
passions, to understand your life story, to develop relations,
to get feedback. Ironically, you’ll ultimately make more money.  The truth is if you add value to the world and you’re
superb at it, money has a funny way of finding you.  Lundborg: Why do smart people underperform?  Kaplan: The two biggest reasons are isolation and the
inability to learn and adapt.  Everyone around them sees their strengths and weaknesses,
everyone knows but them. Most of us are walking blind spots.
So that’s what I call isolation. They don’t have relationships
with people who care enough to tell them, “Hey, you screwed that
up.”  Lundborg: Why do people resist change?  Kaplan: Even when they do find out they need to change,
they’re stubborn. They have a million reasons why they shouldn’t
or they can’t.  What makes you a great junior person is not what makes you
a great middle level person; what makes you a great middle level
person is not what makes you a great senior person.  Mid-Career Plateaus  Lundborg: What causes mid-career plateaus?  Kaplan: It’s back to character and leadership. Stakes get
higher. They might have been very outspoken. They realize: I’m
making a lot more money, I’ve got more bills, I’m dealing now
with more senior people including the CEO, so I’ve got to be
more careful. They start playing it safe and then they get out
of their game.  Lundborg: You put a lot of emphasis on relationships -- why
are they so important?  Kaplan: You can’t do this alone. You need to find mutual
trust, understanding and respect, and that means self-disclosure
to get there. Many people who come to me for advice have very
few relationships and some have none like that. Connectedness on
Facebook is not enough.  Relationships take time, effort and concentration. I do a
relationship muscle-building exercise with executives who start
off very cynical, but by the time we’re done, half of them are
crying because they’re disclosing a person they hardly know.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  gadgets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 