-- Harvest Fund Suspends Employee Investigated by Chinese Police
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-30T08:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/harvest-fund-suspends-employee-investigated-by-chinese-police.html
Harvest Fund Management Co., part-owned by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s asset management unit, said it
suspended an employee who is being investigated by the police
for “personal reasons.”  Wu Hongjian was head of the cash management department,
Beijing-based Harvest said in an e-mailed statement today. He
had also worked as a  fund manager  at the company until three
years ago, it said.  Harvest, which managed about 287.3 billion  yuan  ($46.9
billion) at the end of last year, said it reviewed its bond
trading operations and didn’t find any unusual activities.  Wu’s suspension comes as Chinese regulators have increased
their scrutiny of trading on the nation’s $3.7 trillion
interbank bond market. The central bank last month asked
participants to examine trading histories as part of a crackdown
on illegal transactions, two people with knowledge of the matter
said at the time.  Harvest will conduct its own further examinations and the
company and its fund management operations “are running
normally,” according to the statement. The company declined to
provide contact information for Wu.  Chinese authorities are investigating fixed-income
transactions that took place outside the regulated market. Some
financial institutions, seeking to move bonds off their balance
sheets, have asked other institutions to hold the securities
for a fee, according to an April 22 China National Radio report.  Interest payments and gains from any price appreciation
continue to belong to the original owner of the bond, according
to the article. Because such transactions are outside of
regulated markets, they open the door to abuses such as  insider
trading  and the use of client funds for trades generating
personal gains, China National Radio said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  