-- Assad Touts Military Gain, Russian Arms Support in War
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 2013-05-31T08:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/assad-gets-s-300-shipment-from-russia-as-israel-boost-defenses.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said
his forces were gaining ground against rebels and acknowledged
the role of Hezbollah fighters in efforts to retake a strategic
town in the country’s civil war.  The “balance of power has shifted” in favor of the Syrian
army, Assad told Hezbollah’s Al Manar television in an interview
aired yesterday. Asked if  Russia  has supplied the regime with S-300 missiles, he said the two governments would honor all arms
agreements. Some of the deals “have, of course, been already
carried out,” he said.  Al Manar had earlier suggested that Assad said part of the
long-range missile shipment had been received. The pro-Syrian
Al-Akhbar newspaper also reported that the president told the
television station that more missiles would arrive soon, drawing
skepticism from military analysts, who said the systems needed
time to be delivered and were too large to be undetected.  Assad’s defiance has hindered efforts to broker a
transition of power, while Hezbollah’s open involvement in the
battle over the city of al-Qusair has raised concern in Lebanon
that the Shiite guerrilla group, which the U.S. and Israel
consider a terrorist organization, is dragging the country
deeper into  Syria ’s conflict.  The rebel Free Syrian Army has threatened to retaliate
against Lebanon-based Hezbollah and said al-Qusair’s fall would
trigger a sectarian war. Assad’s Alawites are an offshoot of
Shiite Islam. Assad’s enemies are largely Sunni.  Death Toll  At least 80,000 people have been killed in Syria since the
uprising began in 2011, Vuk Jeremic, president of the United
Nations’ General Assembly,  said  this month.  Hezbollah fighters are helping troops loyal to Assad to
retake Al-Qusair from the rebels, where more than 1,000 wounded
civilians are stranded and in need of aid, according to the
opposition’s Syrian National Coalition.  Rebel fighters from Aleppo have been able to slip into Al-Qusair, the U.K.-based pro-opposition Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights said on its Facebook page today. The report came a
day after the coalition’s acting chief, George Sabra, said 1,000
fighters from all over the country will join the rebels there.  The coalition won’t attend international meetings on the
crisis unless the conflict ends in Al-Qusair, Sabra said in
Istanbul yesterday. The U.S. and  Israel  are seeking to convene a
peace conference in Geneva next month.  Assad said the “wailing” against Hezbollah’s role aims at
“suffocating the resistance” of the Iranian-backed group
against Israel.  Israeli Warning  The Jewish state has repeatedly warned Syria this year that
it would act to prevent any shipments of advanced arms to
Hezbollah, which fought a month-long war with Israel in 2006.
Israeli officials haven’t claimed responsibility for three air
strikes in Syria meant to stop such shipments, most recently
this month.  Israeli National Security Adviser Yaakov Amidror told
European Union ambassadors last week that his country would
prevent the S-300 missiles from becoming operational on Syrian
soil if delivered, Ha’aretz newspaper reported, citing two
unidentified diplomats who attended the briefing.  Russia would need at least seven to nine months to deliver
the first shipment, said Ruslan Pukhov, head of the Center for
Analysis of Strategies and Technologies in Moscow and a member
of public advisory board of Russia’s Defense Ministry.  ‘Stabilizing Factor’  Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said this
week the delivery of the long-range missiles “is a stabilizing
factor.” Russia is supplying Assad with anti-aircraft and anti-ship missiles while the EU, under pressure from Britain and
 France , has authorized arms shipments to rebels.  In Istanbul, where opposition groups are meeting along with
European and U.S. diplomats, the Syrian National Coalition
expressed “gratitude” for the EU decision to lift its arms
embargo. The group asked that “specialized weaponry” be sent
soon to “repel the fierce attacks waged against unarmed
civilians by Assad, Hezbollah, and Iranian forces,” according
to a statement.  The opposition has become harder to unite over time, said
Joshua Landis, director of the Center for Middle East Studies at
the University of Oklahoma in Norman.  “They’ve gotten more divided and they’re beginning to
shoot at each other on the ground, so it’s going in the opposite
direction,” Landis said in a telephone call from  Turkey .  Popular Support  Russia’s S-300 missile was first deployed by the Soviet
Union in the late 1970s. Modified versions of the system can
engage 12 targets simultaneously at ranges of 200 kilometers
(124 miles). The U.S. has told Russia that sales of advanced
missile systems to Syria would be “destabilizing” for Israel’s
security, Secretary of State John Kerry said on May 9 in  Rome .  The government in Moscow has rejected calls for Assad to
stand down as Syrian leader immediately. Assad says running in
the 2014 election depends on popular support for his candidacy.
“If I feel that the Syrian people do not want me, it’s natural
that I won’t run,” he told Al Manar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  