-- That’s Not Coaching. It’s Child Abuse.
-- B y   H a r l a n   C o b e n
-- 2013-05-30T18:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/that-s-not-coaching-it-s-child-abuse-.html
The coach called one player a
“f*****g retard” in front of his teammates. He told others that
they shouldn’t enjoy themselves after a game because they played
like, well, a compound obscenity sometimes used as a derogatory
term for the female anatomy.  In the coach’s attempt to motivate his boys during one
halftime, he gathered them around him and told them that they
were playing as though they were (pardon the shock value)
undertaking a sexual act with, yes, their own grandmothers. It
seems kind of small by comparison, but he also threw clipboards
and kicked equipment, insulted the players’ families, cursed out
coaches and referees, and humiliated and berated and singled out
several players to the point of tears.  No, this isn’t  Rutgers University  or the latest collegiate
scandal. This is a volunteer father coaching my son’s grade-school lacrosse team in my  New Jersey  hometown.  Why are we still allowing this?  The above story isn’t unique. We’ve all seen  these guys  on
the sidelines. We parents may not condone it, but we’ve learned
to accept it. We put up with this behavior because we worry that
if we question it, there will be repercussions for our kid.
He’ll get less playing time, we fear. She will be moved down
from the A to the B team. He will be the brunt of even more
abuse. We see our choices as putting up with it or denying our
kid the sports experience. We start to justify it in our
minds. “Hey,” we tell ourselves, “this is how Woody Hayes
coached. The guy really knows the game. Maybe it’s a good
thing.”  I, too, was guilty of thinking like this.  But we know better. And it has to stop.  Maybe the screaming and shouting worked for another
generation. It  doesn’t work  now. And even if it did, even if
your sixth-grade program ended up with a record of 11-2 with
abuse when it would have been 9-4 without (and the evidence
strongly suggests that the opposite is true), so what?  New Jersey  has just adopted some of the toughest anti-bullying legislation to which our own children are accountable.
Shouldn’t we demand the same from our coaches? Could you ever
imagine a schoolteacher or debate coach behaving in such a
manner?  What I’ve noticed -- and yes, this is anecdotal -- is that
the best teams with the best coaches seem to be have the calmest
sidelines. Rather than shouting specific instructions at players
-- and chastising them for every mistake -- these coaches have
already taught their players what to do. They trust these kids
to take responsibility. Sure, the kids mess up, but there is a
lot to be said for playing without fear. They play better, learn
to be instinctive, and -- gasp -- have more fun.  The bullying has to stop. Not a little. Not with some
wiggle room. Completely. OK, in the heat of the moment, a coach
might accidentally drop an F-bomb. That isn’t what I mean. I’m
also not a huge fan of the namby-pamby New Age coaching. If a
kid hits a weak grounder and doesn’t run it out, don’t yell,
“Good hustle!” But still, that overcompensation is preferable to
ones on the other side. There can be nothing approaching abuse
directed at a kid.  Zero tolerance. None.  When you call a kid a name or belittle him, that’s
abuse. Plain and simple. It should be treated as such. If you
cannot coach without screaming, don’t coach. I appreciate how
much time and effort it takes. I’ve coached kids, too. But if
you can’t do it without tantrums, find something else to
do. This is abuse. Parents may not be aware of the long-term
effect coaches like these have on their child. Study after study
has shown that verbally aggressive language doesn’t motivate. In
fact, it harms.  I love sports. As a kid I played Little League baseball,
tennis, basketball, the usual potpourri of youth sports
programs. What I remember best was the fun I had with teammates,
the joy of sweating, of competing, of having a mutual goal, of
shaking hands afterward. I remember fondly those coaches who
demonstrated balance, who tried to teach us skills, rules and
sportsmanship, who instilled confidence in us, who encouraged us
when we made mistakes, who never tore us down. When a coach did
correct or criticize (confession: I find it hard to believe
praise if I never hear criticism), it was done without malice or
histrionics or fear.  I also recall my friends who unfortunately got the angry,
live-through-my-kid coaches and how miserable they were, how
these kids ended up quitting before their time. I talk to high
school and college coaches now. They have seen the results of
crazed youth coaches. They talk about trying to get kids
involved again -- after coaches like this make them lose their
love of the game.  There are other problems -- huge, enormous problems -- with
sports in our society and the ridiculous importance we place on
them. I say this as someone who started on my  college basketball 
team and knows that my athletic abilities helped me tremendously
in the admissions process. But with all the news coming out in
my home state right now, let’s start here today. Let’s make this
a hard, firm policy in all our sports programs on every
level. Let’s put these coaches on notice with zero tolerance for
any type of ridicule, humiliation or abuse.  The coach I mentioned earlier was finally removed. There
are many parents who still back and excuse him. Some simply
don’t know better because their child doesn’t share or has
become immune to the bullying. Worse, many shrug it off. “There
are a lot of parents who coach like that,” they say. Wow.  But last week, at my son’s game, under the eyes of a calmer
coach, I watched one of his teammates throw a really bad pass
that led to a goal for the other team. I was so accustomed to
the abuse that I actually winced, waiting for the eruption. But
there was none. No parent on the sideline groaned. No coach
pulled the kid out of the game or shouted at him. The kid
knew. The game continued. The kid ended up scoring a goal a few
minutes later.  (Harlan Coben is the author, most recently, of “Six Years.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Harlan Coben at  hcoben@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
David Shipley at   djshipley@bloomberg.net . 