-- Aussie’s China Ties Boomerang in G-10’s Biggest Cuts
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-05-30T03:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/aussie-s-china-ties-boomerang-in-g-10-s-biggest-cuts.html
China ’s slowdown is reverberating in
 Australia , where strategists are cutting their estimates on the
local dollar faster than any other Group of 10 currency on the
prospects for reduced trade between the nations.  The median year-end forecast for the currency that traders
call the Aussie has declined by 2.9 percent since the end of
April to $1, or parity, from $1.03, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. As recently as January the outlook was for $1.05.  While Australia’s dollar has tumbled the most this month
since September 2011, it’s still 29 percent overvalued as
measured by purchasing-power parity based on consumer prices.
That’s making the currency even less attractive after the
 International Monetary Fund  lowered its outlook for growth in
China, Australia’s biggest export market, this year and next.  “The Aussie dollar remains at levels that are very
restrictive for the economy,” Adam Bowe, a Sydney-based  money
manager  at Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees the
world’s biggest bond fund, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“The recent fall has just taken us back to the lows of the past
couple of years.”  Ford Escapes  Australia’s currency has weakened almost 7 percent since
April to trade at 96.60 U.S. cents as of 12:25 p.m. It reached
95.28 U.S. cents yesterday, down from last month’s high of
$1.0582 on April 11 and its weakest level since October 2011.
The Aussie’s 6.3 percent depreciation this quarter more than
wipes out its 3.4 percent gain in the first three months of the
year, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes show.  Even after the declines, the Australian dollar’s value when
adjusting for the cost of living trails only the Norwegian krone
and Swiss franc, based on an index developed by the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Its  real effective exchange rate  was 110.75 at the end of
April, within 1 percent of the strongest level since at least
1994, data from the Bank of International Settlements show.  Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford Motor Co. cited the Aussie’s
strength when it announced this month that it would stop making
cars in the country. Interest rate swap prices show that traders
expect the central bank to lower borrowing costs at least once
more this year to weaken the currency and boost competitiveness.  Slower Growth  “The Australian dollar is overvalued,” Hamish Pepper, a
Singapore-based currency strategist at Barclays Plc, said by
phone yesterday. “A negative impact of a high currency is what
it does to your export sector, and the closure of Ford is an
example of that.”  Australia’s economic growth will probably slow to 2.65
percent this year from 3.58 percent in 2012, according to the
median estimate of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Pepper,
who previously worked for  New Zealand ’s central bank, sees the
Aussie trading at 96 U.S. cents in six months.  The IMF in  Washington  lowered its growth forecast for China
yesterday. The economy will grow about 7.75 percent this year
and next, the IMF estimates, compared with earlier projections
of 8 percent for 2013 and 8.2 percent in 2014.  The reduced outlook follows a slowdown in first-quarter
growth to 7.7 percent as President  Xi Jinping  tries to shift
manufacturing away from coastal regions to China’s interior.
Pimco yesterday said growth in the Asian region’s biggest
economy may decline toward a 7 percent pace.  “China’s determined to commit to the economic rebalancing,
which means demand for some Aussie exports like raw materials
will probably drop in the coming years,”  Ju Wang , an Asian
foreign-exchange strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong ,
said by phone yesterday.  Bear Market  The London-based lender expects the Aussie to drop to 90
U.S. cents by year-end, the most bearish forecast among analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg after Credit Suisse Group AG’s estimate of
89 U.S. cents. HSBC projected 95 cents on April 30.  Iron ore , Australia’s most valuable commodity export,
slumped into a  bear market  this week. China is the world’s
largest buyer of  iron ore  and Australia is the biggest exporter
of the raw material.  Australia’s dollar is also coming under pressure from the
domestic economy. Australia’s record  mining investment boom  is
probably at its peak after companies scrapped or put off A$150
billion ($145 billion) of resource and energy projects in the
past year, the government said this month.  Investment Declines  Business investment unexpectedly fell 4.7 percent last
quarter as mining and manufacturing spending declined,
Australian government data today showed. The median forecast was
for a 0.5 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey. The Aussie
strengthened after the report as mining companies forecast
investment in the 12 months ending June 30, 2014, will be
A$101.9 billion, 3.7 percent above projections for a year
earlier.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has lowered its  key rate  by 2
percentage points in 19 months to a record 2.75 percent. Traders
see about an 80 percent chance it will fall to 2.5 percent or
less by November, Bloomberg data on overnight-index swaps show.
Lower rates tend to weaken a currency by making a nation’s
fixed-income assets less attractive to international investors.  ‘Patient’ Bulls  Australia is one of 11 nations that hold top AAA grades
from the three main credit-rating companies, making its
securities popular with central banks. Offshore holdings of the
nation’s bonds were equal to 70 percent of outstanding debt on
Dec. 31, according to government data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Aussie bulls can afford to be patient,”  Sue Trinh , a
senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “The Aussie’s still going
to be the highest-yielding G-10 currency even if the RBA were to
cut rates” as much as expected, “and global reserve managers
have shown a proclivity toward chasing a higher yield and higher
credit,” she said.  RBC expects the Australian dollar to rise to $1.12 at the
end of this year, making it the most bullish forecaster in the
Bloomberg News survey. Its outlook is unchanged from April.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comment
this month that he could taper monetary stimulus measures should
the U.S. show signs of sustained improvement drove yields on
Treasuries higher, boosting the attractiveness of the greenback.  Premium Shrinks  Australian 10-year  government bonds   yielded  about 1.16
percentage points more than similar-maturity Treasuries this
week, down from 2.75 percentage points in 2010 and the least
since 2008. The U.S.  Dollar Index  has risen about 6 percent to
83.660 from this year’s low of 78.918 on Feb. 1.  Futures traders have turned bearish on the Australian
dollar for the first time in almost a year.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a drop in the Aussie compared with
those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 32,409 on May 21,
the most since the week ended June 12, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. Just
a month earlier, there were net longs of 31,257 contracts.  “If there’s going to be a broad U.S. dollar rally, you can
sell the Aussie dollar without causing any concerns among policy
makers in Australia,”  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist
at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney, said in a phone interview on
May 28. The lender has cut its year-end forecast for the Aussie
to 99 U.S. cents from $1.01 in April. “In fact, you’ll find
them welcoming the move.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  