-- RBA Rate-Cut Bets Pared as Miners Plan to Boost Investment
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-05-30T03:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/australia-business-investment-unexpectedly-drops-building-jumps.html
Mining companies in  Australia  plan
increased investment next financial year, prompting traders to
scale back bets the Reserve Bank of Australia will cut its
record-low benchmark interest rate again next week.  Australian businesses predicted investment of A$156.5
billion ($151.1 billion) in 2013-14, which was 3.4 percent
higher than their estimate three months earlier, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. Mining investment in 2013-14 is
projected at A$101.9 billion, versus A$99.2 billion three months
earlier. A separate report showed  building approvals  surged 9.1
percent in April from a month earlier.  The Australian dollar rose and swaps markets showed
declining bets RBA Governor Glenn Stevens will next week add to
his 2 percentage point reduction in the cash rate over the past
19 months. The government last week said the resources-investment boom may be at its peak as A$150 billion  of projects
have been scrapped or delayed.  “Capex intentions were stronger than expected,” said
Alvin Pontoh, a Singapore-based Asia-Pacific strategist at TD
Securities Inc. The RBA “will wait and see now. It doesn’t rule
out a further rate cut at some point in the future, but it makes
a cut next week highly unlikely.”  The local dollar rose after the report, buying 96.53 U.S.
cents at 1:06 p.m. in Sydney from 96.18 before the release.
Traders are pricing in a 21 percent chance that the RBA will cut
its benchmark when it meets June 4, from 35 percent yesterday,
 interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Capital Spending  Capital spending declined 4.7 percent from the fourth
quarter, when it dropped a revised 2.1 percent, today’s data
showed. That compares with the median forecast for a 0.5 percent
gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists.  Mining spending fell 6.2 percent in the quarter from three
months earlier, while manufacturing slipped 0.8 percent.
Companies forecast investment of A$163 billion in the year
ending June 30, which was 2 percent lower than their estimate
three months earlier.  “The ‘resilience’ in spending plans likely reflects some
blowout in costs,” said Su-Lin Ong, Sydney-based head of
Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank of
 Canada . “The survey suggests that the capex cycle may have
peaked but is likely to plateau rather than collapse in the year
ahead.”  ‘Regaining Momentum’  The increase in building approvals in April was more than
double economists’ expectations, led by an 18 percent jump in
apartments, today’s report showed.  “The housing construction recovery, which began early last
year but seemed to lose its way in late 2012 and early 2013, is
showing signs of regaining momentum,”  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
economists led by Bill Evans said in a research report after the
release.  The Australian dollar, which has declined 6.9 percent this
month, averaged about $1.0350 in the past two years, versus
75.80 U.S. cents in the prior 10 years.  Ford Motor Co. said last week it will stop making cars in
Australia, nine decades after founder Henry Ford first began
building Model Ts in the country, as the currency’s strength
undermines the local industry’s ability to compete with imports.  Australia’s central bank should keep interest rates low as
a high currency and fragile confidence inhibit growth needed to
compensate for a mining slowdown, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said.  ‘Stimulatory Effect’  Gross domestic product growth will slow to 2.6 percent in
2013, down from 3 percent projected in November, the OECD said
in a report released in Paris yesterday. With the economy
slowing, the government’s “gradual approach” to reducing the
public deficit is welcome, it said.  “The surge in mining investment, which is likely to peak
in 2013, is gradually losing its stimulatory effect on activity,
while new drivers of growth are taking time to emerge,” it
said. “Signs of an upturn in the non-mining sector, which the
easing of monetary conditions aims to stimulate, remain timid
because of the persistently high exchange rate, which is
weighing on companies’ confidence and their investment.”  The RBA may need to cut record-low interest rates at least
two more times as mining investment peaks and slowing growth in
China damps exports, said Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  With resources investment providing 60 percent of
Australian economic growth last year, policy makers need to act
to support other sources of domestic demand, Sydney-based
portfolio managers Adam Bowe and Robert Mead said yesterday. The
Aussie dollar is still high enough to restrict the economy even
after dropping to a 1 1/2-year low, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  