-- Australian Rugby Banks on Lions Tour Windfall to Reverse Losses
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-30T14:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/australian-rugby-banks-on-lions-tour-windfall-to-reverse-losses.html
Australian rugby officials will be
rolling out the welcome mat for the British and Irish Lions and
their 40,000 fans next week as they bank on the team’s first
visit since 2001 to reverse two years of losses.  The Australian Rugby Union said it expects the Lions’ nine-match trip, which is set to attract total attendance of about
400,000, to help boost revenue in 2013 by about 46 percent to
A$140 million ($135 million) and enable it to post a profit.  “It is a phenomenal tour that is going to help us
enormously,” ARU Chief Executive Officer Bill Pulver said in a
telephone interview. “I’m hoping we’ll get to at least a A$10
million cash balance within the ARU, which is not a particularly
positive one given the size of the business, but it’s a very
strong result on the back of basically A$20 million of losses in
the last two years.”  Rugby in  Australia  operates in what Pulver says is the
“most-competitive winter sports market in the world,” where it
vies with Australian Rules football, rugby league and soccer for
fans, sponsorship and broadcasting dollars. A Lions tour gives
the sport its biggest exposure outside of the four-yearly Rugby
 World Cup .  After taking over as CEO on Feb. 1, Pulver identified six
measures to assess the game’s health including its finances,
elite-level performance, attendances and fan engagement, which
tracks how supporters are feeling about rugby.  “When I looked across in more detail at some of those
metrics, some of them were a little more problematic than I had
expected,” Pulver said. “There’s room for improvement on every
one of them. They are all addressable.”  Cashed-Up Rivals  That challenge comes with the Australian Football League
and National Rugby League in a position of strength after both
secured broadcasting agreements worth more than $1 billion in
the past 25 months, while soccer’s A-League attracted a record
number of people to regular-season games in 2012-13, according
to Football Federation Australia.  “AFL and NRL have massive TV deals and so they’re
particularly well cashed-up in comparison to the Australian
Rugby Union,” Pulver said.  The windfall generated by hosting the Lions only comes
around every 12 years as the combined team of players from the
U.K. and Ireland convenes on a quadrennial basis to play matches
in either Australia,  New Zealand  or  South Africa .  The Lions arrive in Perth on June 3 after stopping off in
 Hong Kong  for a match against the Barbarians tomorrow. They face
the Western Force on June 5 in their Australia opener, one of
five games against local Super Rugby franchises on a tour that
culminates in a best-of-three Test series. When the teams last
met, the Wallabies came back to win 2-1 and secure their first
series triumph against the combined team.  ‘Expensive Place’  This trip marks 125 years since a rugby team representing
the U.K. and Ireland first toured the Southern Hemisphere.
Costing about 14 million pounds ($21 million), it will also be
the most expensive, according to Lions CEO John Feehan.  “If I had the same amount of revenue now as I did when we
came down 12 years ago, I wouldn’t even cover 25 or 30 percent
of the cost,” Feehan said in a phone interview. “Unfortunately
Australia’s quite an expensive place now.”  Logistics of the tour included narrowing 87 hotels down to
12 in 11 cities, locating 12 available training pitches and
organizing 13 flights, Feehan said.  In addition to the  37 players  in the squad, there are a
further 24 members of the tour party and another dozen or so who
“just dip in and out,” he added. By the time the team gets
back home, 20 tons of equipment will have been transported 7,800
miles, Feehan said.  Covering Costs  With the ARU retaining gate receipts -- top-price tickets
cost A$295 -- the Lions rely on sponsorships from companies
including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Adidas AG (ADS)  and Microsoft Corp. to
help put on the tour. The rest comes from a contribution from
the host union and the sale of packages to touring fans that
range from a basic seat at matches to accommodation and flights.  “Between those two together we might cover about 30
percent of the costs if we’re lucky,” Feehan said. “The
balance is sponsorship basically.”  About 13,000 Lions fans signed up for official packages,
with the same number making their own way. The remainder will be
made up of what Feehan described as “local fans” -- British
and Irish expats in Australia, New Zealand and southeast  Asia .  “Almost 400,000 tickets and nearly all of them have been
sold,” Feehan said. “Nothing else does that. It is the biggest
sporting event in the world this year, that’s the bottom line.
This is a huge bonus for the ARU.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  