-- Tax Banks to Shrink Too-Big-to-Fail Lenders: Cutting Research
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-05-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/tax-banks-to-shrink-too-big-to-fail-lenders-cutting-research.html
Regulators should throw out the old
rule book that uses such policies as consolidation to manage
bank competition and instead focus on addressing the “too-big-to-fail” issue.  Lenders in advanced economies have high incentives to take
risks and large banks have access to cheaper funding than
smaller ones, according to an  International Monetary Fund 
 working paper  published last week. Those banks need to shrink,
said author Lev Ratnovski.  “The most direct tool to do so is to impose taxes or fines
on large banks, to extract their unfair competitive advantage,”
Washington-based Ratnovski wrote. “From the perspective of
competition policy, this would ensure a level playing field.
From the prudential perspective, such taxes or fines would
reduce the excess incentives of banks to grow, reducing the too-big-to-fail problem and enhancing financial stability.” Banks
deemed too big to fail are systemically important financial
institutions, whose collapse would harm the global economy. In
the U.S., the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act gives the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp tools to resolve the largest banks. The U.S.
 Federal Reserve  is also using the new legislation to stress test
and raise capital and liquidity standards on systemically
important institutions.  Implicit guarantees that too-big-to-fail banks will be
bailed out in times of crisis can provide a funding advantage of
as high as 0.8 percentage point a year, Ratnovski said, citing
 research  in a separate IMF working paper by Kenichi Ueda and
Beatrice Weder di Mauro.  “Historically, most interventions in too-big-to-fail banks
were de facto bailouts, which protected their creditors and
sometimes shareholders too from full distress-related losses,”
Ratnovski wrote. “The anticipation of bailouts increases the
incentives of too-big-to-fail banks to take risk, and introduces
a race among banks to become too big to fail, in order to have a
lower cost of funding due to the protection against losses.”  Bank competition policy should also be part of macro
prudential measures -- a term given to efforts to reduce the
risk posed by the financial system as a whole rather than
individual institutions -- as it affects risk-taking by lenders,
Ratnovski wrote. Too much competition may increase incentives to
take risk, while little competition may lead to inefficiencies
and add to the too-big-to-fail problem, he said.  “Sometimes there is a need to sacrifice some competition
to ensure more financial stability,” he said. “Bank
competition policy may require rules that are distinct from
those for non-financial firms.”  To help after a crisis, competition policy should be
structured to temporarily allow higher government control of
banks, Ratnovski said.  * * *  As a surge in news stories containing the word “tapering”
underscores rising debate over when and how the Federal Reserve
should reduce the pace of U.S. stimulus, Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. found that Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
quantitative easing has had a greater impact on global assets
than the efforts of other central banks.  Quantitative easing has also become less potent over time
in influencing commodities and emerging-market stocks even as
they become more correlated with U.S. asset returns, economists
 Peter Hooper , Torsten Slok and Matthew Luzzetti wrote in a May
23 research note.  “The Fed’s balance sheet expansions, much more than those
of other central banks, have been associated with a rise in
cross-asset correlations or risk-on, risk-off movements in
financial markets, while such correlations have declined in the
absence of these QE programs,” they wrote.  More than 80 percent of the rise in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index has taken place when QE programs were active, starting
from QE1 in December 2008, the economists said. International
equities, especially those in  emerging markets , rose sharply in
response to the Fed’s QE3 announcement, they said.  “Increased liquidity, particularly from the Fed, tends to
lead to markets where returns are driven less by asset-specific
fundamentals and more by a common QE factor,” the Deutsche Bank
economists said. “The Fed’s exit from quantitative easing
should eventually result in a return to more normal functioning
of asset markets, with returns driven more by asset-specific
fundamentals and less by cross-asset correlations.”  * * *  A report from the  World Bank  examining why some countries
have economic recoveries without a pickup in bank lending showed
such phenomena are “neither rare nor insurmountable.”
Fortunately, they also don’t have a damping effect in the long
run.  A study of 96 countries and 272 recoveries found that more
than 25 percent were so-called credit-less revivals, authors
Naotaka Sugawara and Juan Zalduendo said in a  working paper 
published May 24. Forty-five percent of those credit-less
recoveries occurred in 2009-2010, they said. A study by the
European Union and the International Labor Organization
estimated that  fiscal stimulus  by Group of 20 nations amounted
to $2 trillion in 2008-2009.  “Fiscal loosening tends to be related to credit-less
events while monetary easing and a country’s decision to seek an
International Monetary Fund-supported program reduce the
probability of credit-less recoveries,” they wrote. “Output
and investment growth tends to be lower in credit-less events
but, by eight quarters after the trough date, the gap between
credit-less and credit-with episodes is mostly exhausted.”  Recoveries are much slower when they aren’t accompanied by
lending growth, Sugawara and Zalduendo said. Such credit-less
upturns are also are more common in emerging markets, they said.
Openness in trade decreases the likelihood of a credit-less
recovery as it is a more stable source of financing, they wrote.  The findings suggest that “a credit-less recovery is not a
reason for extreme concern,” according to the working paper.  * * *  China ’s currency policy has undergone a shift.  Recent strong yuan appreciation suggests authorities prefer
to let the exchange rate gain rather than stick with persistent
intervention, according to  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  analysts Richard Yetsenga and Khoon Goh. The choice to
allow the currency to strengthen comes as costs of sterilization
rise, they said, referring to a situation where central banks
drain money from other parts of the financial system to offset
the new funds being pumped in.  Financial stability historically meant intervening to
absorb any fund inflows and limiting currency volatility. Now,
policy makers may be trying to accomplish that goal by allowing
the yuan to move more in line with underlying capital flows,
Sydney-based Yetsenga and Singapore-based Goh wrote in a May 29
research note.  “Over time, persistent intervention on one side of the
market becomes increasingly difficult to sterilize, leaks out
and results in excess-credit-generated side effects,” the
analysts said. “Excessive local  government borrowing , the rise
of the shadow banking system and widespread housing market
speculation are relatively recent developments in China.”  Policy changes from late-2008 to mid-2010 included a de
facto peg against the  U.S. dollar . From mid-2010 to end-2011, a
robust domestic and global economy led to a strengthening in the
 yuan , Yetsenga and Goh said.  The yuan has risen sharply against a basket of currencies
this year, reaching a series of records against the dollar, they
said.  “The increase in the pace of appreciation, effectively
back towards the pace seen in 2011, is certainly much stronger
than what one would expect if the focus was merely based on
China’s domestic situation,” they said. “The economic data out
of China has been below expectations of late. Certainly one can
point to an apparent divergence between some financial and real
economy indicators in China over the past year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  