-- Backloading Insufficient to Fix Carbon Market, Vattenfall Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-05-30T13:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/backloading-insufficient-to-fix-carbon-market-vattenfall-says.html
The European Union needs a long-term
solution to address a glut in its carbon trading system, and a
proposed plan to temporarily reduce supply is inadequate,
according to Vattenfall AB, the Nordic region’s biggest utility.  The EU should tackle an oversupply in the region’s carbon
market by extending binding targets for curbing emissions from
2020 to 2030, Chief Executive Officer Oeystein Loeseth said
yesterday in an interview in  Stockholm . An independent body
should also be created to review and adjust the CO2 cap, he
said.  A draft measure to delay EU emission-permit auctions, known
as backloading, is the first step toward strengthening the
world’s biggest cap-and-trade market after prices slumped to
all-time lows in April. It is scheduled for a new vote in the
environment panel of the European Parliament on June 19 and then
in the full assembly on July 2 after they failed to endorse it
last month.  “An emissions-trading system which would reflect the
economic development would solve many problems in today’s energy
market, including the fact that power plant investments are
based on government subsidies, and not market prices,” Loeseth
said. “A well-functioning system would remove the need for
renewable energy subsidies, and also for capacity tariffs that
are designed to ensure backup supply to smooth out weather-related variations in output.”  Power producers in the EU must buy carbon allowances to
offset emissions from burning fossil fuels. Carbon allowances
for delivery in December tumbled to an all-time low of 2.46
euros ($3.20) last month on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
after the backloading proposal failed.  “We think a price of 40 euros per ton of CO2 is needed
long-term, to encourage low-carbon energy production,” Loeseth
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  