-- Banker-Pay Curbs Added to EU Rules for Bailed-Out Lenders
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-05-30T16:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/banker-pay-curbs-added-to-eu-aid-rules-for-bailed-out-lenders.html
Pay curbs at bailed-out lenders will
be added to revamped European Union rules on state aid as the
regulator also seeks to toughen requirements for creditor
losses.  Restrictions on pay, currently imposed on a case-by-case
basis, will become a formal part of the EU’s response to
approving taxpayer-funded rescues at stricken lenders, according
to a copy of the draft plans obtained by Bloomberg News. The
plans also include toughening requirements for bank creditors to
face losses before taxpayers are on the hook.  The updated guidance will make clear that “any entity
relying on state aid for its restructuring or orderly winding
down should normally make changes to its top management and
apply strict executive remuneration policies,” including a
“cap on remuneration” for executives, said the draft by EU
Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia’s officials.  The measures add to general curbs on banker bonuses
secured by lawmakers earlier this year that will ban executives
from receiving awards worth more than twice their fixed salary.
Fund managers may face similar EU limits as part of a push to
rein in excessive payouts that encourage risk taking.  ‘Cultural Shift’  “Banks who increase systemic risk through bad practices
should certainly be obliged to alter their remuneration
strategies,” Dominic Johnson, chief executive officer of
Somerset Capital Management LLP, said by e-mail. “Organizations
will probably game the system rather than run better
operations” so a “cultural shift” is preferable to more
rules, he said.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Almunia, declined to
comment on the document.  EU governments have provided 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2
trillion) of support to their banking systems since the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to European
Commission data. Nations have dealt with failing banks in a
variety of ways. While the Netherlands in February nationalized
SNS Reaal NV without writing down unsecured senior debt holders,
such bank creditors were in the firing line as part of the euro
area’s bailout of Cyprus.  Aside from the pay limits, the new guidelines would require
shareholders and junior creditors at a failing bank to face
losses before public money is provided to shore up the lender’s
capital, according to the document, which was discussed by
national officials last week. The updated guidelines would apply
from August 1.  Creditor Losses  A lack of clear EU rules on bank creditor losses means
investors may gravitate to lenders in nations with the most
robust public finances, due to a belief that they’ll be less
likely to face writedowns, according to the document.  Markets are already taking this into account, “as a result
of which funding costs for banks in countries with (perceived)
weaker sovereigns have increased,” the Brussels-based
commission says in the paper.  Similar pay curbs to the ones in the draft EU guidelines
have already been imposed as part of many individual state aid
decisions taken by the commission, according to the document.  The updated rules will “pave the way for a smoother
transition” to planned EU legislation for dealing with banking
crises, according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  