-- Battle for Syria’s Qusair Leaves 1,000 Injured Civilians Trapped
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-05-30T07:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/battle-for-syria-s-qusair-leaves-1-000-injured-civilians-trapped.html
More than 1,000 wounded civilians are
stranded in Al-Qusair, as Syrian rebel groups and troops loyal
to President Bashar al-Assad continue to wrestle for control of
the strategic city.  Al-Qusair is suffering from “acute” shortages of medical
supplies and personnel, and has appealed to the international
community for urgent aid, the Syrian National Coalition said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Pro-Assad forces including militants from Lebanon’s Shiite
group Hezbollah are fighting to retake the city of Al-Qusair
from the rebels. Assad’s soldiers entered Al-Qusair this month
to secure the highway linking Damascus with the coastal mountain
region that forms the Alawite heartland, the government’s
support base, and cut the rebel resupply lines from Lebanon.  The leader of Hezbollah,  Hassan Nasrallah , said his pro-Assad forces were ready to jump deeper into the fray. The
militia is backed by  Iran  and classified as a terrorist
organization by the U.S. and  Israel . Meanwhile, Assad’s troops
and armor were reported to be massing, with Hezbollah fighters,
on the outskirts of Al-Qusair.  The rebel Tawheed Brigade in Aleppo, in a video posted on
its Twitter account, called on the Lebanese government to
restrain Hezbollah “or else we will be forced to move the
battle to Lebanese territory.” He said his group has sent over
1,000 fighters to Al-Qusair.  “The conflict in  Syria  is spinning out of control,”
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay
told an emergency meeting on Syria in Geneva yesterday.
“Government forces continue to carry out indiscriminate and
disproportionate shelling and aerial attacks resulting in
civilian deaths and injuries throughout the country.”  Iran opened its own conference on a political solution in
Syria yesterday. Iran’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  told
the meeting that his country supports the peace talks that the
U.S. and Russia are seeking to hold in Geneva next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  