-- BCC Raises U.K. Economic Growth Forecast as Confidence Improves
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-30T23:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/bcc-raises-u-k-economic-growth-forecast-as-confidence-improves.html
The  U.K. economy  will grow through
2015 faster than previously forecast, the British Chambers of
Commerce said, as separate data showed  consumer confidence 
increased to a six-month high in May.  Gross domestic product  will rise 0.9 percent this year, 1.9
percent in 2014 and 2.4 percent in 2015, compared with previous
forecasts of 0.6 percent, 1.7 percent and 2.2 percent
respectively, the London-based lobby group said in an e-mailed
statement today. A sentiment index published by GfK NOP Ltd.
climbed 5 points to minus 22, the strongest reading since
November, the research company said in a report.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said on May 15 that
an economic recovery is “in sight” as officials raised their
growth projection. Even so, King and two other policy makers
unsuccessfully voted to expand bond purchases this month,
arguing that further stimulus was needed to absorb slack in the
labor market and that the outlook for growth was “poor.”  “The upward revision in our growth forecasts is
encouraging,” said BCC Director General John Longworth.
“Unfortunately, this does not change the fact that economic
growth is still too weak, and the pace of recovery will remain
unduly slow for a while yet. We are still a far cry from getting
the economy fully back on track.”  The reports follow a survey yesterday that showed
companies are becoming more optimistic about the economic
outlook. Data on May 23 confirmed the  economy  grew 0.3 percent
in the first quarter, avoiding a triple-dip recession after a
contraction in the previous three months.  ‘Climbing Out’  Still, unemployment rose in the first quarter and retail
sales fell the most in 16 months in May. Weakness in credit has
led the government and the central bank to broaden their program
to stoke lending and accelerate the recovery.  The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee kept its
 bond-purchase program  at 375 billion pounds ($570 billion) this
month as the majority of officials cautioned against the danger
of stoking inflation expectations.  The BCC predicted policy makers will expand quantitative-easing by 50 billion pounds in the third quarter, most likely in
August.  Today’s GfK report showed a measure of U.K. consumers’
outlook for the economy in the coming year rose 8 points to
minus 18 this month. A gauge of their views on the climate for
making major purchases was unchanged at minus 25.  Britons’ assessment of their financial situation in the
next 12 months gained 2 points to minus 5, GfK said. The
research company surveyed 2,001 people from May 3 to May 19.  “There are now some real signs that consumers, while
hardly confident, are moving out of the feeling of despondency
that the country has been mired in for the last year or so,”
said Nick Moon, managing director of social research at GfK.
“We may be climbing out of the pit of economic pessimism, but
there’s a long way to go until the public becomes neutral, let
alone positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  