-- BCE and Rogers Among Carriers Facing Wireless Code
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-05-30T23:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/bce-and-rogers-to-face-wireless-conduct-code-next-week.html
Canada’s wireless regulator will
issue a code of conduct for the country’s wireless carriers next
week, which may put a check on certain fees, such as charges the
companies levy for canceling contracts.  The new guidelines for companies including  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and  Telus Corp. (T)  are scheduled to be released
on the morning of June 3 in Ottawa, Denis Carmel, a spokesman
for the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission, said today.  The CRTC will release the document just as a three-day
conference for wireless executives and regulators kicks off in
Toronto. The regulator circulated a  draft  code, which applies to
all carriers including new entrants, Jan. 28.  CRTC Chairman Jean-Pierre Blais is reacting to Canadian
consumer demands for more clarity on mobile-phone bills and
relief from three-year contracts the three largest providers
typically insist on. In the U.S., most contracts last two years
and  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  recently introduced a plan that allows
customers to pay for a smartphone over time but not be committed
to two years of monthly service fees.  Blais is scheduled to speak at the Canadian Telecom Summit
on June 4 at 10 a.m. Rob Bruce, the head of Rogers’ wireless
business, will kick off the conference with a speech at 8:45
a.m. on June 3. Rogers spokeswoman Patricia Trott said the
Toronto-based company had nothing to say about the code at this
time.  BCE, Telus and Rogers together control about 90 percent of
the domestic wireless market, even after four new competitors
attempted to win market share with stripped down, prepaid phone
plans. One of the new firms, Mobilicity, agreed this month to be
bought by Vancouver-based Telus for C$380 million ($369
million). Backers of Wind Mobile, another of the new players,
are exploring a sale of the Toronto-based carrier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  