-- Berkshire’s Abel Builds Buffett Energy Unit With Purchase
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-30T20:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/berkshire-s-abel-builds-buffett-energy-unit-with-purchase.html
Greg Abel, who helped build  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s utility business MidAmerican Energy Holdings
Co., is showing that he’s earned the trust of his boss,  Warren Buffett , after striking a $5.6 billion deal for  NV Energy Inc. (NVE)   MidAmerican said that it would buy Las Vegas-based NV
Energy for $23.75 a share in cash, or about 23 percent more than
yesterday’s closing price, to expand in Nevada. The transaction
stands to make Abel’s unit, which already operates in states
including  Iowa , Oregon and  Utah , the largest U.S. utility owner
by customer accounts.  Abel, 50, has helped guide MidAmerican and its predecessor
companies through acquisitions in the U.K. and U.S. during the
last two decades. Since taking over as chief executive officer
in 2008, his company has also agreed to invest in renewable-energy projects and agreed to help fund natural-gas power plants
in  Canada .  “He has the confidence of Buffett and the board,” said
 David Rolfe , chief investment officer of Berkshire shareholder
Wedgewood Partners Inc., which has about $4.2 billion under
management. “He’s a great operator.”  Buffett, 82, relies on his deputies to make deals and
invest in plant and equipment to build the operating businesses
and widen their competitive advantage. That helps slow the
accumulation of cash and reduces the need for Buffett,
Berkshire’s chairman and CEO for more than four decades, to make
stock picks and acquisitions.  Right Time  MidAmerican, which is about  90 percent-owned  by Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire, doesn’t pay a dividend to Buffett’s
company. That freed up cash for Abel and his predecessor  David Sokol  to invest in utilities, pipelines and other businesses.
Sokol left Berkshire in 2011.  MidAmerican had expressed interest to NV Energy in the past
and indicated it would be open to a dialogue at the “right
time,” Abel said in a phone interview yesterday. That helped
spur the transaction that came together in the last few weeks
with CEO Michael Yackira, he said.  “We’ve always believed that Michael and his team are a
good management team,” Abel said. “We like the quality of the
assets. We like the state of  Nevada .”  Abel declined to speak about Buffett’s involvement in the
deal or its financing. MidAmerican will have about $66 billion
in assets after completion, expected in the first quarter of
2014, according to a statement yesterday.  Customer accounts would swell to 8.4 million with the
acquisition, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. And the
purchase will give Abel’s company operations in a state poised
for a rebound. Residential construction permits rose 47 percent
in the state last year last year after declining since 2005.  Solar Power  Nevada also presents opportunities for MidAmerican’s
growing renewable-energy business. The company has signed deals
in the last two years to buy solar projects in  Arizona  and
 California , expanded with wind farms in Iowa and, this month,
announced a  deal  with TransAlta Corp. that will extend the life
of some of its geothermal facilities.  “It’s a state that has an abundance of renewable
resources,” Abel said. “We should be able to help facilitate
the utilization of those.”  Buffett, the world’s third-richest person, has said that
utilities have earning power even under adverse economic
conditions and can provide fair returns on capital as long as
they invest to meet customer needs.  Clean Nose  “Abel is doing what Buffett wants him to keep doing,”
said  Jeff Matthews , a Berkshire investor and author of books
about the company. “He wants to see this big, regulated entity
deploy capital that it can earn a nice, fat, pretty-certain
return on, so long as it keeps its nose clean with the
regulators. And MidAmerican tends to keep its nose clean.”  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment sent to an
assistant.  Abel said he hasn’t ruled out further acquisitions, though
his team will focus for now on completing the NV Energy deal and
investing in existing operations. In addition to cash it
generates, MidAmerican has a $2 billion equity commitment from
Berkshire, according to regulatory filings.  “If the right opportunity presents itself, we would pursue
that,” he said. “That’s really the benefit of being part of
the Berkshire family.”  Abel’s dealmaking and management ability make him among the
top contenders to succeed Buffett as CEO, said Wedgewood’s
Rolfe. The billionaire has said his responsibilities will be
split among that role, a non-executive chairman and investment
managers once he’s no longer leading the company.  Managers’ Moves  As he prepares for the transition, Buffett has highlighted
his managers’ ability to make acquisitions. Berkshire set a
record for such “bolt-on” deals last year, buying 26 companies
valued at about $2.3 billion, he said in a March  letter  to
shareholders.  “Charlie and I love these acquisitions,” he wrote,
referring to Berkshire Vice Chairman Charles Munger. “Usually
they are low-risk, burden headquarters not at all, and expand
the scope of our proven managers.”  Abel’s compensation was $12.8 million last year, including
a salary of $1 million and a $9.5 million bonus. That compares
with a package of $9.91 million in 2011.  Buffett has been trying to build Berkshire through larger
acquisitions, such as the $26.5 billion purchase of railroad
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  in 2010. Earnings from the railroad
and subsidiaries that provide insurance, manufacture chemicals
and sell products from underwear to diamonds boosted the
company’s cash hoard to $49.1 billion at the end of March.  Share Gains  Berkshire climbed 1.7 percent to a record close of $172,200
in New York, lifting the company’s market value to more than
$280 billion. NV Energy surged to $23.62.  The fact that the deal announced yesterday is a bolt-on for
Berkshire shows the scope of what Buffett has built, said
Richard Cook, co-founder of Cook & Bynum Capital Management LLC.  “It’s amazing that it’s not a huge transaction for
Berkshire anymore,” Cook, who oversees shares in Buffett’s
company, said by phone. “That’s how big Berkshire has become.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  