-- Berkshire Buys Roanoke Times, Adding to Newspapers in Virginia
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-30T15:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/berkshire-buys-roanoke-times-adding-to-newspapers-in-virginia.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed to buy the Roanoke Times, extending its newspaper
bet in  Virginia  after acquiring the Richmond Times-Dispatch and
other publications in the state last year.  The purchase of the 76,000-circulation daily from Landmark
Media Enterprises will be completed tomorrow, according to an e-mailed statement today from Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s BH
Media Group that didn’t disclose terms. Terry Jamerson, a vice
president of the unit, has been named publisher of the Roanoke
newspaper.  Berkshire expanded its bet on community newspapers last
year with the purchase of 63 publications including the Times-Dispatch from Richmond-based Media General Inc. Terry Kroeger,
who heads BH Media, has subsequently struck deals to add
newspapers in Texas and  Oklahoma . Berkshire had seven daily
newspapers in Virginia, according to the company’s  annual report 
in March, the most of any state.  “The Times is a great fit with our newspapers in
Virginia,” Kroeger said in the statement. “Terry Jamerson is
one of our key managers and we’re fortunate to have her take on
this expanded role.”  Buffett, who runs Berkshire with Vice Chairman Charles Munger, has said the company can generate a return of at least
10 percent on newspapers after tax by buying at the right price,
even as circulation drops. His strategy is to focus on regions
where there’s a sense of community, rather than in large cities
with more competition among news providers.  No Effort  “It doesn’t require an ounce of effort by me or Charlie,”
Buffett, 82, said at the company’s annual meeting this month,
when asked why he’s betting on an industry with declining
revenue, and making deals smaller than his typical threshold.
“We will get a decent return and we like newspapers.”  Munger, 89, offered an explanation, as well.  “I think what you’re saying is, it’s an exception,” he
said. “And you like doing it.”  Berkshire listed 28 daily newspapers among its holdings in
the annual report, including the Omaha World-Herald and Buffalo
News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  