-- Bezeq’s CFO Seeks to Keep Dividend Policy While Cutting Debt
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-05-30T12:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/bezeq-s-mizrahi-seeks-to-keep-dividend-while-cutting-debt-1-.html
Bezeq The Israeli Telecommunication
Corp. (BEZQ) , the company with the highest dividend yield on the
country’s benchmark index, plans to stick to its payout policy
and reduce debt even as it faces growing competition.  “We’re maintaining our 100 percent of net earnings”
dividend strategy, Chief Financial Officer David Mizrahi said in
an interview at Bezeq headquarters in Tel Aviv yesterday. “We
have enough free  cash flow  and we can use that to both
deleverage beginning in 2014 and pay the dividend.” Bezeq has a
dividend yield of 22 percent.  Bezeq is confronting increased competition in the fixed-line business as state-owned Israel Electric Corp. sets up a
fiber network and the government works on guidelines to
introduce a wholesale market, where bulk network capacity is
sold to telecommunication providers who then sell to consumers.
Bezeq’s shares, which gained 12 percent so far this year,
dropped 39 percent in 2012 as Hot Telecommunication System Ltd.
and Golan Telecom Ltd. entered the mobile-phone market. The
shares rose 1.1 percent to 4.786 shekels at 2:50 p.m. in Tel
Aviv.  “Bezeq shares get a lot of support from the generous
dividend distribution, investors like this a lot,” Dov Rozenberg, an analyst at Clal Finance Batucha Brokerage Ltd. in
 Tel Aviv , said today by phone. “The question is whether in
future Bezeq can maintain this generosity in a worsening
competitive environment.”  The company, whose fixed-line, mobile, television and
international-calls units currently operate as separate
entities, has to pay 1.1 billion shekels of debt in 2013,
Standard & Poor’s Maalot said in a report dated April 22.
“Beginning next year, debt will go down,” Mizrahi said. “We
have payments of around 1.5 billion shekels a year.”  Price Agreement  The entry of Hot and Golan in May last year spurred a price
war between wireless companies, hurting results at Bezeq’s
mobile unit. Pelephone Communications Ltd. reported a 29 percent
slump in first-quarter profit to 153 million shekels as average
revenue per user fell 11 percent.  “Prices will go up eventually, the timing is yet to be
seen,” Mizrahi said. “We won’t see a fast recovery and we
won’t see the numbers we used to see, but it will recover for
sure.”  The company, under new Chief Executive Officer Stella Hendler, is preparing to merge its units once  government
regulation  keeping them separate is lifted, Mizrahi said. The
government has said it will allow Bezeq to combine units nine
months after the wholesale market is in place. A merger of units
will help Bezeq save costs.  “This is a big thing for us, to be able to work as any
other telcommunication company in the world,” said Mizrahi.
“Our biggest mission is to merge operations.”  Standing in the way of the goal are negotiations to lease
its network to wireless providers  Cellcom Ltd. (CEL)  and  Partner
Communications (PTNR)  Co. and the sides haven’t been able to decide on
the price.  “If we cannot reach an agreement the ministry will
intervene and set the pricing,” said Mizrahi. “The regulator
moves very slowly.”  Cellcom shares declined 1.7 percent to 32.22 shekels and
Partner dropped 2.5 percent to 22.15 shekels, the lowest level
since April 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  