-- Bible Class in Texas Schools Faulted as Unconstitutional
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/bible-class-in-texas-schools-faulted-as-unconstitutional.html
In a Sonora,  Texas , public high-school classroom usually used to teach computer programming and
physics, four students are getting Bible lessons from a teacher
who doubles as a pastor.  “What change shall be made in our bodies at the
resurrection?” teacher Clyde Dukes asked, reading from a
textbook. “How does God keep our hearts and minds?”  Classes like the one at Sonora High were singled out in a
January report by Mark Chancey, a religious-studies professor at
Southern Methodist University in Dallas, as an example of how
Texas schools provide unconstitutional Bible instruction.
Chancey and civil-liberties groups say the class suggests
students apply the Bible to their lives and doesn’t provide
perspective on other faiths, violating the First Amendment ban
on government establishment of religion.  “These classes too often promote religious values that
aren’t appropriate academically,” Chancey said. “Public funds
are being used to promote some religious views over others.”  Religion’s place in public schools is a decades-old debate,
often focused on prayers at athletic events or other
extracurricular activities. The for-credit Bible classes inject
the question into the middle of the school day.  Part-Time Pastor  Dukes, 64, who for about 30 years has been a pastor at a
Church of Christ near Sonora, disputes that his class promotes a
religion.  The U.S. Supreme Court in 1963 ruled that schools couldn’t
require students to read the Bible. The court said religious
courses can be taught “objectively as part of a secular program
of education.”  Texas in 2007 required high schools to include study of the
influence of the Bible and other religious literature.  Arizona ,
 Georgia ,  Oklahoma  and  Tennessee  adopted similar laws.  Most Texas schools have folded the subject into existing
English or social-studies classes, said Debbie Ratcliffe, a
spokeswoman for the Texas Education Agency.  However, in the 60 districts with standalone Bible courses,
the state fails to properly train teachers, according to
Chancey’s study of class materials. The state hasn’t properly
vetted lesson plans, leaving districts to develop their own,
said Charles Haynes, director of the Religious Freedom Education
Project at  Washington ’s Newseum, which provides information
about constitutional principles.  Praying State  To comply with Texas law, courses must be history-based,
accept diverse viewpoints and can’t favor a religion, said
DeEtta Culbertson, a spokeswoman for the Education Agency. The
state hasn’t received complaints since the law was implemented
in 2009, she said.  Texas is devout: It has the highest percentage of adherents
of a religion among the nation’s 10 largest states, according to
a 2010 study by the Association of Statisticians of American
Religious Bodies, a Lenexa, Kansas-based organization that
assembles a decennial census of church membership.  Most Texans want children to learn about the Bible, said
state Representative Dan Flynn, a Republican who co-sponsored
the 2007 law. Few schools offer the classes because of the
possibility of lawsuits challenging them, he said.  Apostle’s Words  “These courses get criticized by people who are concerned
about political correctness,” Flynn said.  In the classroom in Sonora, a town of about 3,000 an hour
and a half drive from the Mexican border, Bible study is an
optional course on the Old Testament in the first half of the
year and the New Testament in the second. Those in the 8:45 a.m.
class all said they’re Christian.  On an April day, four students sat in rows at desktop
computers as Dukes guided students line by line through Paul’s
letter to the Christians in Philippi. The apostle urged the
Philippians to live humbly and focus on God, avoiding grumbling
and arguing.  Student Mario Soto, 16, read Philippians 3:21 aloud. When
Dukes posed his question from the textbook, called the Bible
Study Course, students sat silent.  “This is one of the interesting questions in the Bible:
What is it going to be like after our lives end?” said Dukes,
who paced the front of the classroom. “The Bible doesn’t answer
that directly, but it says it’s going to be very good. It says
our body won’t be the same. But it will be glorious. There will
be no sickness or disease.”  Time Capsule  The Bible Study Course, a two-volume textbook, was produced
in the 1920s and 1930s by ministers and teachers for  Dallas 
public schools, according to a foreword by former city school
Superintendent W.T. White. Schools and churches used the books
for decades, with students earning high-school credit after
completing a test, Chancey said. The texts haven’t been updated
since 1946.  Dukes said he chose the Bible Study Course because it was
cheaper than other books and asks direct questions on Bible
teachings. He complies with state law by sharing his historical
knowledge and not imposing personal views, he said.  The 42-year veteran said he has never had a Jewish or
Muslim student.  Questions in the textbook derive naturally from Bible
readings and don’t suggest a specific view, said David Barton,
founder of WallBuilders LLC., which publishes the book. The
Bible is essential for students to understand language and
culture, said Barton, whom Time magazine in 2005 named as one of
the 25 most influential evangelicals in the U.S.  Generic Advice  Only five students are enrolled in Dukes’s course, down
from 10 last year, when the 256-student school first offered it.
It’s hard to fit electives around state-required math and
reading classes, said Raul Chavarria, Sonora’s principal for
nine years.  Chavarria said Sonora, whose economy is dominated by gas
drilling and ranching, doesn’t have a synagogue or mosque. He
said he trusts Dukes to follow the law.  Dukes awards each student an A grade if they take daily
lecture notes in the class, which meets for 50 minutes four days
a week. There are no tests.  “The textbook is just asking what the Bible says,” he
said. “I leave any interpretation up to the students.”  Hagen Kennedy, an 18-year-old senior, said Dukes doesn’t
impose his views.  “It offers a lot of moral and real-life lessons,” said
Kennedy, a senior. “There’s a ton of references every day to
generic situations such as loving your neighbor.”  Protesting Protestantism  The legality of Bible classes hasn’t been litigated in
Texas since 2008, when eight parents and residents argued in
Midland federal court that courses at two schools promoted
Protestant Christianity. The Ector County School District agreed
to stop using material created by the National Council on Bible
Curriculum in Public Schools, a private group in Greensboro,
North Carolina.  The American Civil Liberties Union, which represented the
Ector parents, hasn’t filed suit against any other system
because parents haven’t come forward as plaintiffs, said Daniel
Mach, director of the Program on Freedom of Religion and Belief.  Support for a Bible class in Sonora stems from the town’s
respect for Dukes, said Superintendent James Hartman. The local
chamber of commerce named Dukes educator of the year in April.  “I trust his moral character and his integrity, and I know
he’s touched a lot of lives,” Hartman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Sonora at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  