-- Bid Fails for Greater Australian Campaign Funding Transparency
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-05-30T01:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/bid-fails-for-greater-australian-campaign-funding-transparency.html
Laws designed to make Australian
political funding more transparent have been scrapped after a
voter backlash against the changes that would have given a A$60
million ($58 million) boost to parties.  “My colleagues have been listening to the electorate, we
have listened, we have learned and this bill is dead,”
Australian opposition leader  Tony Abbott  told reporters in
Canberra today.  Prime Minister Julie Gillard’s ruling Labor minority
government said May 28 it had struck a deal with the opposition
coalition to amend political party funding laws, agreeing to a
new threshold for disclosure of donations to move long-stalled
legislation through parliament.  While the new bill would have reduced the requirement for
disclosure of political donations from A$12,100 to A$5,000, it
would also have led to a A$60 million increase in public funding
to parties and independent candidates, which Abbott today said
was unreasonable given budget finances.  Labor, trailing the Liberal-National coalition in polls
before the Sept. 14 election, introduced legislation in 2010 in
a bid to improve the transparency of campaign funding. Those
laws, which sought a A$1,000 disclosure threshold while
preserving rules where donations might be made public months
after an election result, have languished in the Senate, leading
to the compromise between the major parties announced May 28.  The government may now attempt to revive its earlier
legislation in the Senate before next month’s final sitting of
parliament ahead of the election, Transport Minister Anthony Albanese told reporters in Canberra today. Abbott had reneged on
a signed agreement to support the compromise bill, he said.  “It’s important, I think, that there be transparency in
the political process,” Albanese said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  