-- Billionaire Eurnekian Investing $1.2 Billion in Chip Plant
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2013-05-30T17:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/billionaire-eurnekian-investing-1-2-billion-in-chip-technology.html
Argentine businessman Eduardo Eurnekian is investing $1.2 billion in a chip plant south of
Buenos Aires to tap a growing market in  Latin America  for credit
cards, mobile phones and electronic identification.  The manufacturer, known as  Unitec Blue , began production in
February after an initial investment of $300 million with an
output capacity of 1.2 billion chips a year, which will double
by the end of 2016, according to its president Matias Gainza
Eurnekian, Eduardo Eurnekian’s nephew.  Eurnekian, who is worth at least $1.3 billion, is expanding
in  Argentina  at a time when currency controls, 24 percent annual
inflation and import restrictions are deterring investment
there. In the  World Economic Forum ’s global competitiveness
 ranking , the country slipped nine spots to number 94 of 144
economies for the 2012-2013 period. Earlier this year,
Eurnekian’s Corporacion America holding company bought 81
percent of Argentine oil company Cia. General de Combustibles
for $200 million.  “Corporacion America is the most aggressive investor in
the country right now,” Gainza Eurnekian, 28, said during a May
23 tour of the 10,000 square meter (108,000 square feet) plant
in Chascomus, 120 kilometers (75 miles) from the capital. “This
is a long-term project so we don’t let current politics affect
our strategy. We like to invest in Argentina because we’re
Argentine.”  Foreign Investment  Vale SA, the world’s third-most valuable miner, abandoned a
$6 billion potash project in Argentina’s Mendoza province in
March after it failed to secure tax breaks and attract partners,
saying the cost of the project had almost doubled. Brazilian
meat producer  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3)  plans to close two beef
plants it operates in Argentina as part of a strategy to cut
costs, chief executive officer Sergio Rial said May 14.  Argentina, Latin America’s third-largest economy, was fifth
in foreign direct investment in the region last year, trailing
smaller economies such as Chile and Colombia, according to the
 United Nations .  Corporacion America  operates 50 airports worldwide through
Aeropuertos Argentina 2000. The holding also owns the Fin del
Mundo winery in western Argentina, a construction company, and a
postal service and bank in  Armenia , where Eurnekian’s family
originated.  Through CGC, the group has stakes in gas pipelines and  oil
fields  in Argentina and Venezuela. Eurnekian, 80, is also
working to partner with state-run YPF SA to develop shale
deposits at Vaca Muerta, which may hold the world’s second-largest shale oil deposits after the U.S.  Corporacion America has annual sales of about $2 billion,
according to Carolina Barros, a company spokeswoman.  Regional Growth  Latin America and the Caribbean is forecast to expand 3.4
percent this year, compared with growth of 0.3 percent in  Europe 
and 1.9 percent in the U.S., according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Demand for SIM cards for mobile phones, which
Unitec Blue produces, is  surging  in the region as 81 percent of
mobile phone subscriptions in Latin America are prepaid,
according to the  World Bank .  Unitec Blue is already manufacturing credit cards for Visa
Inc. and  Mastercard Inc. (MA)  in Argentina and neighboring countries,
while providing transport cards for regional governments in
 Brazil , according to Gainza Eurnekian. The company is providing
chips and lamination for the  SUBE transport card  for the Buenos
Aires metro, rail and bus network and is bidding for similar
contracts in Brazil, he said.  The plant, which employs 155 people and took 10 months to
build, will also produce solar energy panels and LED technology,
a semiconductor light source. The project is being financed with
Corporacion America’s cash.  Borrowing Costs  Investors demand an average 11 percent yield for Argentine
companies to borrow abroad in the  bond market , more than double
the 5.2 percent average for companies in  emerging markets ,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI index. That’s the
highest in emerging markets after Venezuela and Oman.  “We’re financing it all ourselves, because the time it
took us to build the plant, is how long it would have taken to
negotiate a loan with banks,” Gainza Eurnekian said. “This is
a high-risk project with a large investment and a need for quick
returns to continue growing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Buenos Aires at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  