-- Biogen’s MS Pill Delayed in Europe as Patent Extended
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-05-30T20:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/biogen-s-ms-pill-delayed-in-europe-as-patent-extended.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the world’s biggest
maker of multiple sclerosis drugs, said a European regulatory
decision on its new pill will be delayed until the second half
of the year after a patent on the medicine was extended.  Biogen said it’s seeking to clarify Tecfidera’s regulatory
exclusivity status in Europe. A European patent on the pill was
extended yesterday until 2028 and covers the expected 480-milligram dose planned for sale, the Weston, Massachusetts-based
company said today in a regulatory filing.  Tecfidera cleared U.S. regulators on March 27, propelling
Biogen shares to a 31 percent gain since the approval. The drug
followed  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya and  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Aubagio to the
market as oral options for MS, a central nervous system disease
otherwise treated by injection or infusion. The illness affects
2.1 million worldwide, according to the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society.  “Delay is prudent to preserve value over the long term,”
Biogen said today in a presentation to investors at a conference
organized by Deutsche Bank AG.  Biogen is working to make Tecfidera’s regulatory data
protection clearer to all parties, Kate Niazi-Sai, a Biogen
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We originally anticipated that
the dialogue would be completed by now, but it is not,” she
said.  Biogen fell less than 1 percent to $238.89 at the close in
New York.  Clarify Status  The regulatory delay shouldn’t have a “significant
negative impact” on near-term revenues, Brian Abrahams, an
analyst with Wells Fargo & Co. in New York, said today in a note
to clients.  “Though we believe Tecfidera will likely be safe from
generics due through at least the late-2020s through its IP
exclusivity, the delay in confirming EU regulatory exclusivity
does highlight an incremental risk that may not have been
appreciated,” Abrahams wrote.  Initial U.S. sales of Biogen’s pill, formerly known as
BG-12, were greater than those of Gilenya and Aubagio,
suggesting revenue may be more than analysts’ initial estimates
of $240 million to $300 million this year, according to a Wells
Fargo report on April 29. The medicine may have sales of $3.4
billion by 2017, according to the  average  of eight analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have been encouraged by early signs of physician and
patient interest in this product,” Tony Kingsley, Biogen’s head
of commercial operations, said April 25 on a conference call
after the company released its first-quarter earnings. “U.S.
physician awareness of Tecfidera is high and perceptions are
strong.”  Biogen also sells Avonex, an injection, and Tysabri, an
infusion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  