-- Blackhawks Top Red Wings in Overtime in NHL Game 7, Kings Next
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-30T04:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/blackhawks-beat-red-wings-2-1-in-overtime-to-win-nhl-game-7.html
Brent Seabrook scored in overtime as
the  Chicago Blackhawks  defeated the Detroit Red Wings 2-1 in a
decisive seventh game to advance to the Western Conference
finals of the National Hockey League playoffs.  The Blackhawks, who rallied from a 3-1 deficit to win the
best-of-seven series, will play the defending champion  Los
Angeles Kings  for a place in the  Stanley Cup  finals against the
 Pittsburgh Penguins  or the Boston Bruins.  Seabrook’s winning goal, his first of the playoffs, came
three minutes, 35 seconds into overtime last night when his 32-foot shot bounced off the skate of Niklas Kronwall and flew past
the left glove of Red Wings goaltender Jimmy Howard.  “I was just trying to step up,” Seabrook said in a
televised interview. “The coaches have been on me all year to
make good plays.”  Patrick Sharp  scored early in the second period for the
Blackhawks at United Center in Chicago. Henrik Zetterberg tied
it 26 seconds into the third period.  A goal by Chicago’s Niklas Hjalmarsson 1:47 before the end
of the third period was disallowed because an official had
called roughing penalties on Kyle Quincey of the Red Wings and
Brandon Saad of the Blackhawks, who clashed in the buildup to
the goal.  The conference finals pit the last four winners of the
Stanley Cup against each other for the second time in NHL
history.  The Penguins host the Bruins and the Kings travel to
Chicago on June 1 for the opening games in the conference finals.  “It’s going to be a tough series,” Sharp said of the
battle with  Los Angeles . “As we look ahead to the Kings, it’s
only going to get harder. They seem to do everything well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  