-- BNP Paribas Favors Emerging-Market Local Debt on Fed Speculation
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-05-30T11:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/bnp-paribas-favors-emerging-market-local-debt-on-fed-speculation.html
BNP Paribas Investment Partners is
favoring developing-nation local-currency bonds, betting they
will be more resilient than dollar notes to any reduction in the
Federal Reserve’s $85 million of monthly debt purchases.  “Hard-currency emerging-market sovereigns are more likely
to be more volatile to a reduction in quantitative easing
programs in the U.S.,” said Michael Victoros, a London-based
investment specialist at BNP Paribas Investment Partners, the
asset management unit of  France ’s largest bank that oversees
$648 billion. “We’re promoting very strongly this year
emerging-market local currencies and emerging-market hard-currency corporate bonds,” he said in an interview in Singapore.  The yield premium offered by developing nations’ dollar
debt over Treasuries has declined 105 basis points in the 12
months through yesterday to 306 basis points, according to a
JPMorgan Chase & Co  index . The spread for emerging-market local-currency notes was 445 basis points, Victoros said.  Twenty-two of 24 developing-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg have fallen this month as Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said the monetary authority would reduce its bond buying, which
has increased the flow of funds to  emerging markets , if there
was a sustained improvement in the U.S. economy. This weakening
is likely to be temporary, according to Victoros.  “A lot of emerging-market currencies are very far from
their purchasing power parity,” he said. “We expect a 5
percent return this year from currency appreciation.”  Corporate Bonds  Local-currency notes in emerging markets lost 4.4 percent
this month, set for the worst drop in a year, according to
JPMorgan’s GBI-EM Global Diversified Index. Developing economies
will expand 5.3 percent in 2013, compared with 1.2 percent
growth in advanced nations, according to forecasts by the
International Monetary Fund released on April 16.  “The long-term case for emerging markets is very strong,”
Victoros said. “What has changed is the client base, where
before we used to have hedge funds and mutual-fund clients, now
we’re seeing much more sovereign-wealth funds and pension
funds.”  Developing nations’ dollar-denominated corporate bonds are
also poised to gain as their economies grow, Victoros said. The
company prefers bonds of Turkish financial firms, Brazilian
agricultural producers and Russian oil companies, he said.  “We believe that emerging-market corporates will make a
larger portion of the top 100 firms as we move over the next 10
years,” Victoros said. “Because as their economies grow these
corporates have the first-base advantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  