-- Board Director Pay Hits Record $251,000 for 250 Hours
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   H i d e k i   S u z u k i
-- 2013-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/board-director-pay-hits-record-251-000-for-250-hours.html
Pay for directors at  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  companies rose to a record average of $251,000
last year, the sixth straight year of increased compensation
since federal rules began requiring disclosure.  Boards have boosted pay for their members a total of 15
percent since 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fidelity
National Information Services Inc. (FIS)  topped the list after handing
out a $9.5 million retention bonus.  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Costco
Wholesale Corp. (COST) , which awarded some directors more than $1
million in consulting fees, came in second and third.  The average conceals a wide range: Directors at  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  made the least, at $3,800,
while 19 companies paid their directors more than Buffett’s
$423,923 compensation as CEO. The average pay for directors is
almost six times the $42,700 average salary for private-sector
workers holding down full-time jobs.  “Who makes decisions about director pay? The directors,”
said Paul Hodgson, director of corporate governance researcher
BHJ Partners in Portland, Maine. “Shareholders can sit back and
say ‘These directors are being paid so well that I can’t see
them ever questioning management on anything because this is a
gig they would hate to lose.’”  Reputation Risks  Employees in the private sector make their salaries working
an average of 34.4 hours a week, or 1,789 hours annually, based
on Bureau of Labor Statistics data. Directors typically work 250
to 300 hours a year, according to estimates by executive search
firm Korn/Ferry International.  The pay increase reflects rising hours of work annually for
directors and risks to their reputations from activist
shareholders’ campaigns, according to Joel Koblentz, who helps
companies hire new directors as senior partner at the executive
recruiter Koblentz Group in Atlanta. Rebounding stock prices in
the economic recovery also play a role.  The rise since 2007 trails the 33 percent gain in  S&P 500 
CEO compensation, which averaged $10.7 million last year,
according to executive-pay data provider Equilar Inc. It still
trumps the 2.8 percent gain in  per-capita disposal income  for
wage earners over the period, based on data from the U.S. Bureau
of Economic Analysis.  Pay Conundrum  “It’s kind of a conundrum,” Koblentz said. “Trying to
find board members who are willing to step up and play their
roles is a difficult task and you want to balance that out with
appropriate compensation.”  Some directors this year have found the spotlight: Ray Irani at  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  and Ray Lane at Hewlett-Packard Co. have lost their jobs as investors expressed
dissatisfaction. JPMorgan Chase & Co. lead director Lee R. Raymond faced pressure from activists when they tried to make
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  relinquish his chairman
role. There was little debate over board members’ pay, however.  “By and large, people still don’t know who is on the board
of most companies,” said Aaron Boyd, director of governance
research at Equilar in Redwood City, California. “The CEO still
takes the brunt of it.”  Companies are now required to report total compensation for
directors each year and provide breakdowns of fees, stock awards
and other reimbursement. The proxies include payments for duties
outside the boardroom such as consultant fees or retirement
income. Such expenses characterized as “other” skewed the
average for half of the 11 boards with compensation over
$500,000, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Retention Fee  At the top was the retention fee for William P. Foley II, a
director at Jacksonville, Florida-based Fidelity National. In
return for $9.5 million, he ran for re-election on the board,
agreed to non-compete conditions and accepted the role of vice
chairman.  Costco’s board jumped to third-best paid in the S&P from
No. 210 in 2011 after the Issaquah, Washington-based warehouse-club chain paid $4.6 million to director Richard Libenson for
consulting services -- $300,000 for a firm owned by Libenson and
the rest in restricted stock units.  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s board was ranked fifth last year
after paying $4.4 million for the  security  protection of Lewis W. Coleman, who has since resigned from he board. A $906,217
consultant grant to B.M. Rankin, a co-founder at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , helped keep the Phoenix-based
company at rank No. 11.  High Multiple  “You have to really justify why one director is getting a
high multiple of other directors, in particular,” said Paul Lapides, director of the Corporate Governance Center at
Georgia’s Kennesaw State University. “It’s great when you look
in the mirror, but it’s not great in the boardroom. Everybody
only gets one vote.”  Randy Belote , a spokesman for Northrop Grumman, had no
comment beyond the proxy.  Eric Kinneberg , a Freeport spokesman,
declined to comment. Kim Snider, vice president of marketing at
Fidelity National, didn’t return e-mails or phone calls seeking
comment; neither did the office of Costco’s chief financial
officer.  At New York-based News Corp., Joel Klein received $4.5
million in cash and stock for his duties as an executive vice
president and as CEO of the education unit. Arthur Siskind was
awarded $5.2 million, including cash and stock awards, for his
job as a senior adviser to CEO and Chairman Rupert Murdoch.
Neither Klein nor Siskind got any additional pay for being a
director. Nathaniel Brown, a spokesman, said the company had no
comment beyond its proxy statement on the pay.  Skew Decisions  Even when the pay is for activities outside the boardroom,
the concern is that the compensation will influence votes around
the table, said Lapides, who is on the board of  Sun Communities
Inc. (SUI) , where he was paid $143,601 last year. Directors with ties
to the company can skew decisions in favor of the management,
who is already represented on the board by the chief executive,
he said.  “When you have more than two conflicted people, it’s
amazing how the discussion of those three can bias the
discussion of everyone else,” Lapides said.  At boards such as  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , with average
compensation of $690,053,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , with $615,866, and
Occidental Petroleum Corp., with $540,047, most directors were
well-paid compared to peers, according to the proxy data.  Stock Grants  Biotech company  Celgene Corp. (CELG) , whose stock was among the
top 15 performers in the S&P 500 this year, ranked No. 10 in
board compensation in 2012, up from 38 the previous year, in
part because of the rising value of stock grants. Brian Gill, a
spokesman for Summit, New Jersey-based Celgene, declined to
comment beyond regulatory filings.  Jane Hynes, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Salesforce.com,  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, and
Melissa Schoeb, a spokeswoman at Los Angeles-based Occidental,
had no comment.  Eaton Corp. was among the top 10 for the first time because
of more than $5 million to repay directors for taxes they owed
related to unvested shares held at the time of the acquisition
of Cooper Industries Plc. The structure of the 2012 deal
resulted in taxes for some directors and the Dublin-based
manufacturer opted to reimburse the costs, according to the
proxy. Scott Schroder, a spokesman, said that without those
payments, director pay was in line with industry averages.  Paying Taxes  Waste Management Inc. (WM)  rose to 13 from 172 in 2011 after the
board decided to pay itself for two years at once, for tax
purposes. Lynn Brown, a spokeswoman for for Houston-based Waste
Management, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  “There’s no independent directors’ committee that doesn’t
have any directors on it,” said BHJ Partners’s Hodgson. “So
it’s them sitting down and deciding they don’t want to pay
taxes, for example.”  One main reason directors probably feel justified in
raising their own pay is that the average number of hours has
increased at least a third in the last several years to about
250-300 hours annually, said Stephen Mader, vice chairman and
managing director at executive search firm Korn/Ferry
International in Boston.  Regardless of its level, board compensation should be
linked to the stock’s performance, said  Nell Minow , a corporate-governance consultant at GMI Ratings.  “That’s a lot of money, and you don’t want to give them
too much money, but I’m more concerned that we don’t tie pay to
performance,” Minow said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Hideki Suzuki in New York at 
 hsuzuki4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  