-- Brazil Maracana Stadium Re-Opening Suspended on Safety Issue
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-30T22:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/brazil-maracana-stadium-re-opening-suspended-on-safety-issue-1-.html
A judge in  Rio de Janeiro  suspended
an exhibition soccer game between  Brazil  and England this
weekend that was supposed to mark the re-opening of the Maracana
stadium where next year’s World Cup final is to be held.  The state government said in a statement that it was
appealing the judge’s decision, which was based on safety
concerns.  “All the security requirements for the friendly between
Brazil and England have been met,” according to the statement.
The government blamed a “bureaucratic failure” by the military
police, which neglected to deliver a report to the state’s
sports superintendent confirming the stadium’s readiness. That
report is being delivered to the judiciary, the government said.  The June 2 game against  England  was supposed to be the
first test of Maracana at full capacity since a three-year, $500
million renovation was completed last month. The stadium will
also be used June 16 during the FIFA Confederations Cup and the
opening and closing ceremonies of the 2016  Olympic Games . The
stadium can seat about 78,000 people.  Authorities across Brazil have stepped up inspections of
theaters, bars and other public spaces following a blaze at an
overcrowded nightclub in January that killed 235 people,
Brazil’s deadliest in a half-century. The club’s owners lacked
proper permits and documentation confirming the venue could
handle large crowds.  For Related News and Information:
Calls to Rename Rio’s Olympic Stadium Following Bribe Scandal
(MM6MFU1A1I4H)
Brazil  World Cup  Final Venue Opens After Delays, Cost Overruns
(MLXQ396S9728)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  