-- Brazil Steps Up Pace of Rate Increases as Inflation Hurts Growth
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-05-30T04:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/brazil-steps-up-pace-of-rate-increases-as-inflation-hurts-growth.html
Brazil ’s central bank unexpectedly
accelerated the pace of interest rate increases, as inflation
near the top of its target range forestalled the economy’s
rebound in the first quarter.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
yesterday voted unanimously to raise the benchmark Selic rate by
a half-point to 8 percent, matching the forecast of 19 of 57
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Thirty-eight analysts expected
a second straight 25 basis-point increase.  Yesterday’s decision is the first time since Tombini
became the head of the central bank in 2011 that policy makers
surprised analysts surveyed by Bloomberg by setting the key rate
at a higher-than-forecast level. The half-point increase will
prompt traders to boost bets Tombini will raise the Selic to 8.5
percent in July, a move that seemed unlikely earlier yesterday
after economic growth missed  economists’ estimates  for a fifth
straight quarter, said Roberto Padovani, chief economist at
Votorantim Ctvm Ltda  “The inflation problem required a more robust monetary
policy cycle, even with weak economic growth,” said Carlos Kawall, chief economist at Banco J. Safra. “It was important
that the decision was unanimous so as not to give the idea of a
divided central bank, which would weaken the decision.”  Kawall expects one more half-point rise, followed by two
more quarter-point increases this year.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014 fell
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 8.06 percent,
the biggest drop since April 18. The real weakened 1.7 percent
to 2.1106 per dollar.  ‘Positive Move’  Brazil is the only country in the Group of 20 nations whose
central bank is raising its key rate. In the past month,
countries including  Israel , the European Union, Australia and
 India  have all lowered borrowing costs.  The central bank had showed “a renewed and unexpected
commitment to anchor inflation,”  Alberto Ramos , senior Latin
America economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a note to
clients.  Annual  inflation  accelerated for nine straight months
through March to 6.59 percent, above the top of the central
bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent. In April,
year-on-year inflation eased to 6.49 percent.  “The central bank’s decision was a positive move,” Flavio Serrano, senior economist, Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento,
said by phone from Sao Paulo. “Inflation has been high for a
while and it hurts investments, business confidence and
consumption.”  Inflation, Currency  Policy makers yesterday said the “decision will contribute
to put inflation on a decline and assure that this trend will
persist next year,” according to their statement posted on the
central bank’s website.  Analysts who cover Brazil’s economy forecast year-end
inflation at 5.81 percent, up from a previous projection of 5.71
percent a month ago, according to the central bank’s latest
weekly survey of about 100 economists.  Inflation is helping to undermine Brazil’s decade-long
consumer-led boom. Household spending rose 0.1 percent in the
first quarter -- its worst performance since 2011.  Brazil’s real yesterday plunged to a five-month low after
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the two-month sell-off isn’t
a concern and that the government won’t use the  exchange rate  to
curb inflation.  The real has fallen this month on signs of economic
weakness and speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will
curtail a program of bond purchases that has lifted emerging
market assets. A weaker real raises the costs of imports.  GDP, Expectations  Brazil’s economy  expanded  0.55 percent in the first
quarter, the national statistics agency said yesterday.  The result was lower than the 0.64 percent pace set in the
fourth quarter of 2012, and below the 0.9 percent median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The first-quarter
growth report prompted traders to increase their bets for a 25
basis-point rate increase yesterday.  Following yesterday’s rate decision, the market will again
bet on a longer and more intense tightening cycle, said
Padovani.  “The market will go back to 50 basis points, it fell too
much,” he said by telephone. “It will bet on a longer cycle.”  Brazil isn’t planning new stimulus measures and government
efforts to boost investments are working, Mantega said
yesterday.  Industrial production in March expanded 0.7 percent after
plunging the most since 2008 in February.  Anchoring Expectations  Brazilian companies have posted their longest stretch of
earnings disappointments on the back of the country’s uneven
recovery.  Thirty-seven of the 65 companies on the  Ibovespa (IBOV)  index
reported first-quarter results that trailed analyst’s estimates.
Four companies posted unexpected losses, including homebuilder
 Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  and mining company  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA. (MMXM3)   Brazil’s economy expanded 0.9 percent last year, the
slowest pace since 2009. Economists surveyed weekly by the
central bank have cut their 2013 growth forecast for the second
straight week to 2.93 percent, below the central bank’s forecast
of 3.1 percent.  “The decision was necessary due to inflation levels, and
even with the weak economy,” Fernando Fix, chief economist at
Votorantim Asset Management, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .
“Inflation is at high levels, and represents one of the main
reasons behind low growth.” Fix expects the Selic to end the
year at 8.75 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net 
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  