-- Judge Clears Way for Brazil-England Soccer Match to Go Ahead
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-05-31T04:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/brazil-world-cup-plans-hit-again-as-judge-suspends-england-match.html
A Brazilian judge revoked a ruling
that had suspended the national soccer team’s weekend exhibition
match against  England  on safety grounds, clearing the way for
the game to go ahead and mark the reopening of the Maracana
stadium.  The state government said late yesterday that the duty
judge of the Rio de Janeiro court revoked the injunction that
suspended the game after receiving a report from military police
showing the stadium complied with safety regulations.  “The report had not been delivered to the state’s sports
superintendent because of a bureaucratic failure,” read the
statement on the Rio government’s website.  Brazil ’s buildup to hosting the 2014 soccer World Cup had
suffered another setback yesterday when Rio de Janeiro judge
Adriana Costa dos Santos ruled that the Maracana, which is
slated to host the final next year, wasn’t safe to stage the
June 2 exhibition game.  Prosecutors had said earlier yesterday that the stadium
must remain closed until it is shown there will be no safety or
health risks to the public attending events at the venue. A
police report said the stadium presented “safety risks” and
“dangerous materials” were at the site, the prosecutors added.  The ruling was the latest hiccup to frustrate organizers of
sport’s most-watched event. Construction delays forced  FIFA ,
soccer’s governing body, to backtrack on a demand for test
events at six stadiums being used for next month’s
Confederations Cup, a warmup event that starts June 15. Brazil’s
government is spending 30 billion reais ($14.2 billion) on
projects as it prepares to stage the  World Cup .  Hard Hats  Workmen in hard hats were still working two days ago at the
78,838-seat Maracana, a stadium that had a record crowd of
173,850 when it staged the 1950 World Cup final, the last time
the event was held in Brazil. The arena, which cost more than
$500 million to renovate since its closing three years ago,
missed a second deadline to reopen in December before finally
opening last month for an exhibition played at reduced capacity.  England’s national squad arrived in Brazil two days ago
ahead of the sold-out game, which is part of the English
Football Association’s 150-year anniversary celebrations.  The ruling to suspend the game came three days after the
roof at  Salvador ’s newly built Arena Fonte Nova developed
structural problems because of heavy rain. Television showed
part of a canvas covering had been torn as workers bailed
rainwater off the roof. Italy, one of the squads competing at
the eight-team Confederations Cup, will train at Rio’s Joao Havelange stadium that was indefinitely shut to the public in
March after concerns that its roof was also unsafe.  Authorities across Brazil have stepped up inspections of
theaters, bars and other public spaces following a blaze at an
overcrowded nightclub in January that killed 235 people,
Brazil’s deadliest in a half-century. The club’s owners lacked
proper permits and documentation confirming the venue could
handle large crowds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  