-- Brazil’s Real-Linked Bonds Climb as Bank Steps Up Rate Increases
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-30T20:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/brazil-s-real-linked-bonds-climb-as-bank-steps-up-rate-increases.html
Brazil ’s real-denominated global
bonds rallied after the central bank accelerated the pace of
interest-rate increases, a move that could stem a currency rout
that has eroded returns on the country’s debt.  The yield on  government bonds  maturing in 2022 dropped nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 7.18 percent at 4:06
p.m. in  New York . The price climbed 67 centavos to 133.62 reais.
Markets are closed today in  Sao Paulo  for a holiday.  “Given the surprise rate hike, a lot of people might be
expecting the real to rally tomorrow, so buying the bonds is a
way to bet on that move,”  Tony Volpon , the head of research for
the Americas in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a
telephone interview.  The central bank’s board voted unanimously last night to
raise the target lending rate by a half-percentage point to 8
percent to curb inflation, surprising 38 of 57 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg who had expected a second straight
increase of 25 basis points. The other 19 correctly forecast the
half-point increase.  Policy makers raised their target lending rate last month
for the first time since July 2011, increasing it to 7.50
percent from a record low 7.25 percent.  “We were all surprised, not just by the extent, but
because it was a unanimous decision,” Aryam Vazquez, a global
emerging-markets economist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “You had a large selloff in the
real yesterday as well, so I think they’re concerned on multiple
fronts.”  Declining Real  The real plunged 1.7 percent yesterday to a five-month low
of 2.1106 per dollar as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the
selloff isn’t a concern and that the government won’t use the
 exchange rate  as a tool to curb inflation.  The currency has declined 5.2 percent in May, the worst
performance among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after  South Africa ’s rand amid signs of sluggish
growth and on concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will curtail a
stimulus program that has buoyed emerging-market assets. The
real has tumbled 2.8 percent this week in what would be its
fifth weekly decline.  Mantega, speaking to reporters yesterday in Brasilia after
the government reported slower-than-forecast growth in the first
quarter, said a weaker real can boost exports.  “Other tools exist to combat inflation,” Mantega said.
“This is an international shift, and there’s no reason we
should be different.”  Inflation Record  Since central bank President Alexandre Tombini took office
in January 2011, the annual rate of  consumer price increases  has
remained above the 4.5 percent midpoint of policy makers’ target
range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent. Yearly inflation
accelerated to 6.59 percent in March before easing to 6.49
percent last month.  The Ibovespa benchmark stock index has declined 10 percent
this year, the worst performance among major emerging-market
stock gauges, amid concern quickening inflation is curbing the
economic recovery.  Latin America ’s largest economy grew 1.9 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier after expanding 1.4 percent in
the previous period, the national statistics agency reported
yesterday. The median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for gross domestic product growth of 2.3 percent.  Currency Outlook  The half-point move “was kind of surprising, especially
after the GDP announcement,” Klaus Spielkamp, a fixed-income
trader at Bulltick Capital Markets, said by phone from Miami.
“They did the 50 basis points for two reasons: inflation, of
course, and the fact that the real is devaluing above 2.10. I
think they don’t want it too far from 2.”  Nilson Teixeira, a research analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG in Sao Paulo, said in a report published today that he
expects the central bank to raise the target lending rate by
another 75 basis points this year, with increases at the July
and August meetings. Capital Economics analyst  Michael Henderson 
in  London  said in a report that there’s a “significant
possibility” of a further rate increase at the next monetary
policy meeting in July, with the outlook becoming “far less
certain” beyond that.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  