-- Bullard Says Downturn Hardest on Young, Less-Educated Families
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-05-30T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/bullard-says-downturn-hardest-on-young-less-educated-families.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President James Bullard said U.S. households with the lowest net
worth at the start of the 2007-2009 recession suffered the
biggest financial setback from the downturn in percentage terms.  “While many Americans lost wealth during the Great
Recession, younger, less-educated and non-white families lost
the greatest percentage of their wealth,” Bullard said in a
statement in the St. Louis Fed’s annual report released today.
“Household deleveraging, or paying down debt, has played a key
role in the recent recession and the slow recovery.”  The most-vulnerable households held a disproportionate
amount of their wealth in housing and shouldered higher levels
of debt before the downturn, Bullard said, citing a study from
the Fed regional bank’s Center for Household Financial
Stability. The center was created to research household balance
sheets and implications for monetary policy.  Households have recovered an average of 45 percent of their
wealth prior to the 18-month recession, according to the study
by Ray Boshara, the Center’s director, and William Emmons, the
Center’s chief economist.  Individuals with weaker balance sheets are less likely to
attend college and are less financially stable and economically
mobile, according to the study. The harm done to household
wealth may be hampering consumer spending and limiting the
expansion.  “As we learn more about how microeconomic activity affects
the performance of the macroeconomy, this research could have
important public-policy implications, including insights for
monetary policy,” Bullard said in the annual report.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York last month said U.S.
households reduced debt during the first quarter by 1 percent to
the lowest level since 2006, even as student debt bucked the
trend. Household debt fell to $11.2 trillion in the first
quarter compared with a peak burden of $12.7 trillion in the
third quarter of 2008, the New York Fed said May 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  