-- California Gay Marriage Support Rises to Record in Poll
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-05-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/california-gay-marriage-support-rises-to-record-in-poll.html
Support for legalizing same-sex
marriage in  California  has reached a record high as the U.S.
 Supreme Court  prepares to rule on the state’s ban next month.  Fifty-six percent of adults favor allowing gay and lesbian
couples to wed, with 38 percent against, the nonpartisan Public
Policy Institute of California said late today.  “The more that there’s been acceptable and legal change in
other states, the more Californians have been accepting,
especially among some of those groups that were strongly
opposed,”  Mark Baldassare , the group’s president, said by
telephone.  The Supreme Court is considering the constitutionality of
Proposition 8, a California ballot measure passed by voters in
2008 that bans same-sex unions. The court is scheduled to rule
by the end of June, when its nine-month term ends. The high
court is also weighing the 1996 U.S. Defense of Marriage Act,
which prevents the federal government from recognizing gay
marriages.  Approval of same-sex nuptials has almost reversed since
2000, when the institute said its first survey on the subject
showed 39 percent in favor and 55 percent against. Support
reached 50 percent in March 2010. A poll in January found gay
unions favored by 53 percent to 41 percent opposed.  Republican approval has doubled to 46 percent from 23
percent in October 2008, the latest survey said.  More than 18,000 same-sex couples got marriage licenses in
California in the five months between the state Supreme Court’s
ruling that gay marriages were legal and the passage of
Proposition 8, which effectively overturned that decision.  Twelve states and the  District of Columbia  have approved
same-sex marriage.  The San Francisco-based organization surveyed 1,704 adults
by telephone May 14-20. The poll has a margin of error of plus
or minus 3.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 