-- California Counties May Lose as Brown Shifts Health Costs
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-05-30T00:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/california-counties-may-lose-as-brown-shifts-health-costs.html
California  counties may lose as much
as $2.5 billion in state funding over the next three years for
indigent health care as the state assumes responsibility under
the federal Affordable Care Act, Governor  Jerry Brown  said.  The most populous U.S. state plans to cut $300 million this
year from counties as its Medicare program expands, Brown told
local officials yesterday in Sacramento. The governor  projected 
that figure will grow to $900 million next year and $1.3 billion
in the year beginning in July 2015.  “Give me $300 million and we’ll call it a day,” the 75-year-old Democrat told leaders of California’s 58 counties at a
conference.  The Affordable Care Act is expected to expand health
coverage to about 27 million uninsured Americans. funding losses
had been projected as California takes responsibility for 2
million to 3 million uninsured residents, Matt Cate, executive
director of the State Association of Counties, told reporters
after Brown spoke.  However, “there is no $300 million” to turn over to the
state, Cate said.  “We’re willing to give. We just don’t want
them to scrape off so that we’re in a worse place than before we
started.”  Brown’s $96.4 billion budget for the year beginning in July
sets aside  $1.5 billion  to expand the Medicaid program, known as
Medi-Cal, under President  Barack Obama ’s health care law.
California will “bear the financial cost and risk” of people
who currently rely on county indigent-care services, according
to a budget  document . The state and federal governments share
the cost of the program.  Medicaid Expansion  While the Medicaid expansion would cover more than 2
million of California’s 38 million residents, another 3 million
to 4 million people, including noncitizens and the mentally ill,
will continue to rely on county health programs, according to a
association.  Brown said “a lot of uncertainty abounds” over
reimbursements for health care for the poor and uninsured as the
federal expansion is implemented.  “It’s very possible that the state could take more money
away, but not exactly in the amount of responsibility that has
been assumed,” he said. “We’ve got to be careful.”  Since 2011, the 58 counties have taken on additional
responsibility for housing as many as one-third of the  130,000 
state prisoners, as well as running anti-drug programs, criminal
probation, mental health programs and foster care. The state has
pledged to give counties $6 billion a year for the transfer of
responsibilities, which Brown has called realignment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  