-- Canada Must End ‘Distorting’ Mine Tax Breaks, Mintz Says
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-05-30T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/canada-must-end-distorting-mine-tax-breaks-mintz-says.html
Canadian provinces should eliminate
tax breaks for mining companies because they have a
“distorting” effect on investment, said Jack Mintz, an
economist at the University of Calgary.  The incentives spur investment in projects that might
otherwise be uneconomic, according to a report published today
by Mintz, director of the university’s School of Public Policy,
and Duanjie Chen, a research fellow at the school. Provincial
governments should drop special tax credits and a “generous”
depreciation allowance for mining investments and instead adopt
a rent-based cash-flow tax for the industry, they said.  Canada already plans to cut about C$55 million ($53
million) in tax breaks for mining companies and lower deduction
rates for mineral-property development, according to  federal
budget  documents released in March. While the federal government
has taken steps to improve “tax neutrality” between mining and
non-mining industries, more should be done, particularly by the
provinces, Mintz and Chen said.  “Provincial treasuries certainly cannot afford these
breaks, and neither can the Canadian economy as a whole,” they
said.  Mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction accounted for
about 8 percent of Canadian gross domestic product in February,
according to Statistics Canada.  Mintz and Chen’s comments come as mining companies face
pressure from countries including the Dominican Republic and
Kyrgyzstan to share more of their revenue, even after commodity
prices declined this year. Canada’s  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  agreed
this month to amend a lease governing its Dominican Republic
mine and Toronto-based Centerra Gold Corp. is in talks with
Kyrgyzstan on ways to increase benefits to the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  