-- Canada First Quarter Current Account Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-05-30T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/canada-first-quarter-current-account-report-text-.html
Following is the text of  Canada ’s
current account report for the first quarter released by
Statistics Canada.  Canada’s current account deficit (on a seasonally adjusted
basis) narrowed $0.5 billion to $14.1 billion in the first
quarter. This change largely reflected lower deficits on trade
in goods and services.  In the financial account (unadjusted for seasonal
variation), foreign portfolio and direct investors both supplied
funds to the Canadian economy in the first quarter. Investment
from abroad in the form of securities focused on Canadian bonds,
while foreign direct investment in Canada reached the highest
level in more than four years.  Current account  Deficit on trade in goods narrows  The deficit on trade in goods declined $0.4 billion in the
first quarter to $1.7 billion. Both exports and imports
strengthened in the quarter, with exports recording a larger
increase. The goods surplus with the United States remained at
$11.2 billion, reflecting corresponding increases in both
exports and imports.  Total exports of goods were up $2.7 billion to $118.0
billion in the first quarter, with increases widespread across
commodities. Energy products were up $0.9 billion, led by record
volumes of crude petroleum. Consumer goods increased $0.8
billion on higher exports of food products. Metal and mineral
products advanced $0.7 billion, largely reflecting higher
volumes of precious metals. Chemical products were up $0.6
billion. These gains were dampened by automotive products, which
declined $1.1 billion on lower volumes of cars.  Total imports of goods increased $2.3 billion to $119.7
billion in the first quarter. As with exports, several major
categories strengthened. Metal ores and non metallic minerals,
supported by higher volumes, grew $0.6 billion. Consumer goods
advanced by the same amount. This activity was partly offset by
energy products on reduced volumes of crude petroleum, as well
as by metal and mineral products on lower volumes of precious
metals.  Trade in services deficit edges down  The deficit on trade in services was reduced by $0.2
billion in the first quarter to $5.8 billion. Lower payments on
trade in commercial services and higher receipts on
transportation services accounted for most of the changes. The
travel deficit remained at $4.3 billion in the quarter. While
Canadian travellers increased their expenditures in the United
States, they cut back on spending on trips overseas.  Investment income deficit contracts  The deficit on investment income decreased $0.2 billion in
the first quarter to $4.9 billion. Earnings of Canadian direct
investors and foreign direct investors were both down by the
same amount during the quarter. Canadian income on foreign
securities edged up $0.1 billion, on higher interest and
dividends. Income paid to foreign investors on their holdings of
Canadian securities was unchanged, as larger payments of
interest were offset by smaller dividends.  Financial account  Foreign purchases of Canadian securities focus on bonds  Non-resident investors acquired $9.3 billion of Canadian
securities in the first quarter, the lowest such investment in a
year. Acquisitions were focused in Canadian bonds, as foreign
holdings of money market instruments and equities were down in
the quarter.  Foreign acquisitions of Canadian bonds were $25.2 billion,
the highest since the third quarter of 2010. This activity was
led by secondary market purchases of government and government
business enterprise bonds. New issues of private corporate bonds
also contributed to the inflows, though these transactions were
down from the previous quarter.  Foreign investors withdrew $6.4 billion from the Canadian
money market, following three quarters of sizable investments.
The divestment was all in government paper, mainly federal
Treasury bills on higher retirements of these instruments.
Canadian short-term interest rates were up in the first quarter
and long-term rates were down.  Non-resident holdings of Canadian equities were down by
$9.5 billion. The reduction was mostly attributable to cross-border mergers and acquisitions, as foreign portfolio investors
rendered their Canadian shares to foreign direct investors. Non-resident investors’ purchases of $2.5 billion on the secondary
market moderated the overall divestment in Canadian stocks over
the quarter. The Canadian stock market advanced 2.5% in the
first quarter.  Canadian acquisitions of foreign securities slow  Canadian investors added $7.0 billion of foreign securities
to their portfolios in the first quarter, down from $17.0
billion in the previous quarter. They acquired both equity and
debt securities, although acquisitions of bonds slowed. This
quarter marked the 13th straight quarterly Canadian investment
in foreign securities.  Canadians purchased $4.5 billion of foreign stocks, led by
pension funds, with two-thirds of the acquisitions in US
equities. The remainder of the activity in non-US stocks was
concentrated in Asian markets. US stock prices increased 10% in
the first quarter, while the Japanese stock market posted strong
gains for a second straight quarter.  Canadian investors acquired $2.4 billion of foreign bonds,
compared with $13.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012. This
reflected a reduction in Canadian holdings of US government
bonds in the first quarter. Nevertheless, Canadians have
invested in foreign bonds for four straight quarters, more
typical of activity prior to the onset of the global credit
crisis in 2007.  Foreign direct investment in Canada outpaces Canadian direct
investment abroad  Foreign direct investment in Canada reached $18.6 billion
in the first quarter, the highest investment since the third
quarter of 2008. Funds injected into existing Canadian
subsidiaries strengthened in the quarter, while direct
investment net inflows from cross-border mergers and
acquisitions slowed. Manufacturing as well as the finance and
insurance sectors received the bulk of the investment from
abroad.  Canadian direct investors increased their foreign assets by
$6.5 billion, mainly in the United States. Activity was down
from $15.4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012, as cross-border merger and acquisition flows were at their lowest in
nearly two years. Undistributed earnings from operations of
foreign subsidiaries were also lower in the quarter.  Note to readers  Annual and quarterly data have been revised for the
reference years 2009 to 2012. This is in keeping with the
general policy to revise national accounts statistics at the
time of the first quarter data release. In general, the
revisions reflect more current sources of information coming
from annual surveys and administrative data.  The balance of international payments covers all economic
transactions between Canadian residents and non-residents in
three accounts: the current account, the capital account, and
the financial account.  The current account covers transactions in goods, services,
compensation of employees, investment income and current
transfers.  The current account data in this release are seasonally
adjusted. For more information on seasonal adjustment, see
Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=fra ) .  The capital account covers capital transfers and
transactions in non-produced non-financial assets.  The financial account comprises transactions in financial
assets and liabilities.  In principle, a net lending (+) / net borrowing (-) derived
from the sum of the current and capital accounts corresponds to
a net lending (+) / net borrowing (-) derived from the financial
account. In practice, as data are compiled from multiple sources,
this is rarely the case and gives rise to measurement error. The
discrepancy (net errors and omissions) is the unobserved net
inflow or outflow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  