-- Capitec Falls as Regulator Refers Possible Fine to Tribunal
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-05-30T16:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/capitec-plummets-as-regulator-refers-possible-fine-to-tribunal.html
Capitec Bank Holdings Ltd. (CPI) , South
Africa’s second-largest provider of unsecured loans, dropped to
its lowest this year after it said the National Credit Regulator
has referred a probe into the bank’s alleged contraventions of
credit laws to a tribunal.  The stock fell as much as 3.5 percent, the lowest since
last December, and closed 1.6 percent lower at 186.90 rand by 5
p.m. in Johannesburg trading. The regulator hasn’t disclosed
details of the probe.  “On May 28, a notice was received from the NCR referring
the matter to the National Consumer Tribunal,” Capitec, based
in Stellenbosch, east of  Cape Town , said in a statement today.
“It remains impracticable to estimate its financial effect or
the amount of any possible outflow,” the bank said, without
disclosing how much the regulator may want to fine the lender.  African Bank Investments Ltd. (ABL) , the largest provider of
loans not backed by assets, said in February the regulator
wanted to fine it 300 million rand ($28 million) for fraud
carried out at one of its branches. African Bank, like Capitec,
is disputing the allegations. While the NCR has probed unsecured
lenders, banks including  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  have reported
an increase in bad debts as unemployment rises, the economy
slows and consumers struggle to repay loans.  “Capitec needs to be more transparent,” said Neville Chester, who helps oversee the equivalent of $42 billion at
 Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  in Cape Town. “Banking is a trust
business so you have to be very cautious not to scare the
market, but at the same time you have to communicate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  