-- Charles Henderson, NYSE Fourth-Generation Specialist, Dies at 88
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-05-30T18:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/charles-henderson-nyse-s-fourth-generation-trader-dies-at-88.html
Charles Henderson, whose family firm,
Henderson Brothers Inc., was a leader in specialist floor
trading in the pre-automation heyday of the  New York Stock
Exchange (NYX) , has died. He was 88.  He died last night of heart failure at Good Samaritan
Medical Center in West  Palm Beach , Florida, his son, David, said
today in an interview. He had entered the hospital three weeks
ago for emergency surgery and developed pneumonia, his son said.
He lived in the exclusive Phipps Estate neighborhood of Palm
Beach.  Henderson Brothers -- purchased in 2000 by LaBranche & Co.
and now part of New York-based  Cowen Group Inc. (COWN)  -- supplied one
of Wall Street’s deepest family traditions. The company was
founded in 1861 by Henderson’s great-grandfather, William T.
Henderson, making Charles the fourth generation to run it. He
was chairman of the firm from the mid-1960s, when he succeeded
his father, John, to his retirement in the mid-1980s.  “When he was born, he had big shoes to fill,” said David
Henderson, who carries on the family tradition as a broker with
Dru Stock Inc. and Clancy Financial Services Inc., both in  New
York . “And he filled them better than anyone could have
imagined.”  As specialists, Henderson traders had exclusive province
over certain stocks. They were responsible for making markets in
the trading of blue-chip companies including  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
American Express Inc. and, beginning in 1988, JPMorgan & Co., a
predecessor of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Henderson was well known as
the specialist for health-club company Bally Total Fitness
Holding Corp., his son said.  Buffett’s Pick  James Maguire, who succeeded Henderson as chairman, was
 Warren Buffett ’s choice as  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .’s specialist
when it began trading shares on the NYSE in 1988.  In a 2011  profile , the Palm Beach Daily News quoted
Henderson recalling the days when specialists clogged the NYSE
trading floor.  “It was all going on down there at one time,” Henderson
said, according to the article. “We were working with Bausch &
Lomb, and all of a sudden they discovered these new lenses you
could put in your eyes. The stock took off. Then another day,
when it was running high, they find out the drops could hurt
your eyes. The stock plunged.”  Also: “Parke-Davis, one of the big drug companies, came
out with their birth control pill and supposedly the Pope was
going to approve it. So the stock went wild. But he never did.”  Navy Service  Charles Fistie Henderson II was born on Dec. 15, 1924, and
raised in South Orange,  New Jersey . Named for his grandfather,
he was the oldest of seven children of John C. Henderson and the
former Marie Anita Walsh.  He attended Seton Hall Preparatory School and had begun his
studies at the College of the  Holy Cross  in Worcester,
 Massachusetts , when he was called to duty in the U.S. Navy in
World War II. Following more than three years of service in
naval air transport in the Pacific, he returned home and
graduated from  Seton Hall University  in South Orange.  In 1948, he bought a seat on the New York Stock Exchange
for $48,000.  “I borrowed the money from my grandmother and I paid her
back,” he recalled, according to the Palm Beach Daily News.
“But I was making $5,000 a year, which was a big deal.”  In New Jersey, where he and his wife raised their children
in Rumson, Henderson was active with groups including the
Navesink Country Club, the Monmouth Beach Bath & Tennis Club and
Christian Brothers Academy in Lincroft, which he helped found,
his son said. In Palm Beach, he was active with the Everglades
Country Club, the Sail Fish Club and Club Colette.  His wife of 62 years, the former Mary Louise Scatuorchio,
 died  in August. They had six children, four of whom survive them
-- David, of Shrewsbury, New Jersey; Guy, of  Delray Beach ,
 Florida ; Jerome, of Palm Beach; and Mary Louise Clarke of
Bernardsville, New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  