-- Chechen Man Shot in Back of Head During Boston Probe, Dad Says
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-05-30T13:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/chechen-man-shot-in-back-of-head-during-boston-probe-dad-says.html
A 27-year-old Chechen man killed last
week in Florida during a probe into one of the Boston bombing
suspects was shot in the back of the head, his father said.  “I get the impression that they come to your home boldly
like bandits and shoot a person dead,” Abdulbaki Todashev, a
senior municipal official in Grozny, the capital of southern
 Russia ’s Chechnya region, told reporters in Moscow today.  Law-enforcement officials were questioning Ibragim Todashev
on May 22 about a triple-murder he was suspected of committing
two years ago with Boston bomb suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev when he
became irritated and lunged at officers, according to two
officials, who asked for anonymity because of the continuing
investigation.  Tsarnaev, 26, died after a shootout with police. He is
accused of helping carry out the April 15 attack during the
Boston Marathon, which killed three people and injured at least
260. His 19-year-old brother Dzhokhar, the other suspect, is in
a prison hospital after suffering gunshot wounds before his
capture.  Ibragim Todashev met Tamerlan in a Boston boxing gym two
years ago, before moving to  Florida , his father said.  Photographs show his son was shot six times in the body,
once in back of the head, according to Abdulbaki. The son had
recent leg surgery and “was learning how to walk again,” his
father said, adding that Ibragim planned to visit Russia May 24.  The Tsarsnaev parents, ethnic Chechens who emigrated to the
U.S. with their two sons and two daughters from Russia about a
decade ago, have insisted on their children’s innocence, saying
they were set up.  Tsarnaev’s Testimony  Tsarnaev initially communicated to investigators by nods
and in writing that he and his brother alone were responsible
for the bombings and were motivated by extremist Islam,
according to a U.S. official briefed on the initial
interrogation. He also indicated they weren’t aligned with any
known terrorist or military groups.  The Tsarnaev brothers were capable of such a crime, the
leader of Russia’s mainly Muslim Chechnya region,  Ramzan Kadyrov , said in a statement on his  website  on May 27. While
ethnic Chechens, they had no link to the region, he said.  “I checked information about the brothers through my own
contacts,” Kadyrov said. “Those who knew them well say they
were capable of carrying out illegal acts in any country.”  By contrast, Todashev was a “good guy,” Kadyrov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  