-- Chicago Man Gets 23 Years in Prison After FBI Bomb Sting
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/chicago-man-gets-23-year-sentence-in-bomb-plot-u-s-says.html
A  Chicago  man was sentenced to 23
years in prison after the FBI, in a terrorism sting operation,
provided him with a fake bomb that he tried to detonate near the
Chicago Cubs’ ballpark in 2010, U.S. prosecutors said.  Sami Samir Hassoun, 25, was sentenced yesterday by U.S.
District Judge Robert Gettleman in Chicago. He pleaded guilty
last year to attempting to use of a weapon of mass destruction
and trying to use an explosive to damage or destroy a building
used in interstate commerce.  “Hassoun never posed any actual imminent danger,” the
office of acting Chicago U.S. Attorney Gary S. Shapiro said
yesterday in a statement announcing the sentence. “His guilty
plea made clear that he intended to cause mass casualties and
rejected opportunities to walk away from the plot.”  The Hassoun case is one of at least three such Federal
Bureau of Investigation terrorism-related sting operations that
have resulted in the arrests of men in the Chicago area since
2010.  Adel Daoud, 19, of Hillside, Illinois, was arrested in
September in a similar FBI-orchestrated plot in which he
believed he was going to detonate a bomb outside a downtown
Chicago bar.  Daoud Charges  Indicted on charges of attempting to use a weapon of mass
destruction, which is punishable by life imprisonment, and
attempting to damage or destroy a building with an explosive,
Daoud has pleaded not guilty and is being held in federal
custody.  An 18-year-old from Aurora, Illinois, Abdella Ahmad
Tounisi, was arrested last month at O’Hare International Airport
as he was about to board a flight to  Turkey . He had planned to
travel on to  Syria  where he would join an al Qaeda ally and wage
war, according to the FBI.  Indicted for attempting to provide material support to a
foreign terrorist group and for lying to U.S. Customs and
Boarder Protection agents about his travel plans, Tounisi
entered a plea of not guilty May 29 and is also being held
without bail.  Prosecutors have said Tounisi and Daoud were friends and
that Tounisi parted company with Daoud on the bomb plot because
he feared it was a sting operation.  Hassoun’s defense lawyers, Matthew Madden and Myron
Auerbach, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment
on the sentence.  Hassoun’s Motive  Prosecutors had asked Gettleman to impose a 30-year term in
their May 1 sentencing memorandum.  “Hassoun talked about using terrorism to embarrass and
undermine Chicago’s political leadership,” according to the
U.S.  Saying their client wasn’t motivated by ideological
extremism, Hassoun’s lawyers in their March 18 memorandum sought
a sentence of no more than 20 years.  Hassoun was raised in the African nation of Ivory Coast and
later lived in Lebanon, witnessing war in both countries before
emigrating to the U.S., according to his attorneys.  “Sami’s primary motivation was to impress the informant
and the FBI agents and convince them that he was one of them, a
consequence of ‘his exposure to chronic untreated trauma as an
adolescent,’” his lawyers said, quoting a psychologist’s
report.  The case is U.S. v. Hassoun, 10-cr-00773, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  