-- China Optimism Declines Among European Companies, Survey Shows
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 9 2 0 4 7 4 ]   K e v i n   H a m l i n   [ ] .   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 9 5 6 9 2 ]   S c o t t   L a n m a n   [ ]
-- 2013-05-30T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/china-optimism-declines-among-european-companies-survey-shows.html
European companies’ optimism for
business prospects in China is declining amid slowing growth,
rising labor  costs , regulatory obstacles and intensified
competition, a survey showed.  Optimism for future revenue growth among 526 respondents
dropped to a four-year low of 71 percent, while 62 percent
lack confidence or aren’t sure the government has the resolve
to introduce market-driven change, according to a business
confidence survey released today in Beijing. It was conducted
in March by the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China
and Roland Berger Strategy Consultants.  The  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday that China
needs “decisive” policy changes to put its economy on a more
sustainable path and last month the  Asian Development Bank 
said surging wages and costs threaten the nation’s  growth 
potential. The EU Chamber survey showed optimism on profits in
the next two years fell to 29 percent, the lowest since the
report started a decade ago.  “Optimism is waning,” the chamber’s report said.
“Significant economic reforms are needed more than ever before
to ensure continued strong economic growth, mitigate cost
increases, unlock market opportunities and create an overall
well-functioning and efficient business environment.”  The executive committee and regional boards of the
chamber in China include representatives of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Siemens AG and Novo Nordisk A/S, according to the group’s
website.  Labor Costs  Sixty-two percent of companies are pessimistic about the
outlook for labor costs and 63 percent ranked employee
expenses as their most significant challenge, the report said.
Sixteen percent of the survey’s respondents reported a decline
in revenue last year, compared with 6 percent for 2011.  Amid deteriorating air pollution in Beijing and other
cities this year, 72 percent of European companies rated
China’s living environment as one of the top three challenges
in hiring and retaining foreign staff, the survey said.  Fifty-eight percent of respondents were either neutral or
pessimistic about the potential for productivity increases in
their industries, up from 53 percent in the 2012 survey, the
report said.  European companies also said they are facing increased
competition in  China  from privately owned local firms
improving in sales and marketing and brand recognition, the
report said.  “There is a marked lack of optimism among survey
respondents about future reforms to create a level playing
field,” the survey said.  Even so, companies still see China as having among the
best opportunities globally and it is an increasingly
important part of global strategy for 64 percent of survey
respondents, down from 74 percent in 2012, the report said.  China was ranked one of the top three countries for
future investments by 43 percent of survey respondents.
Further expansion of current operations in the nation is being
considered by 86 percent of European companies, the report
said.  -- Kevin Hamlin . Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on +86-10-6649-7573 or
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at +852-2977-6603 or  ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net 
