-- China to Study Joining U.S.-Led Trade Accord After Japan Added
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-30T09:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/china-to-study-joining-u-s-led-trade-accord-after-japan-added.html
China  said it’s studying the
possibility of joining the U.S.-led  Trans-Pacific Partnership 
trade talks, a move that comes about a month after the existing
11 members allowed Japan to join the negotiations.  “We will analyze the advantages, disadvantages and the
possibility of joining the TPP, based on careful research and
according to principles of equality and mutual benefit,” Shen Danyang, a Commerce Ministry spokesman, said in a statement on
its website today. “China also hopes to exchange information
and materials with TPP members on the negotiations.”  The nation’s inclusion in the talks would bring together
the world’s three biggest economies, accounting for about 40
percent of global gross domestic product. Countries currently
involved in the TPP completed the 17th round of talks in  Peru 
last week and aim to reach an agreement by year’s end.  China  began talks  this month with 15 other Asian countries
on a separate trade agreement called the Regional Comprehensive
Economic Partnership. That pact would include Japan, South
Korea,  India ,  Australia ,  New Zealand  and the 10 countries in the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations .  China’s statement on the TPP was included as one of several
different “hot issues” posted in a question-and-answer form on
the ministry’s website.  “China has attached importance to the TPP negotiations and
continuously followed their development,” Shen said. “China
also has continuously listened to the opinions of various
government departments and industries on the TPP.”  Current Parties  The existing parties to the TPP talks are the U.S., Canada,
Mexico, Peru, Chile, Australia, New Zealand, Vietnam, Malaysia,
 Singapore  and Brunei. Japan is simultaneously pushing ahead with
talks on a raft of trade pacts, including with South Korea and
China, Australia and the European Union.  In November, then-U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
invited China to join the TPP in a speech in Singapore.  “We welcome the interest of any nation willing to meet the
21st century standards of the TPP -- including China,” she said
at the time.  The U.S. has pushed the TPP as a template for a wider trade
agreement that would eventually include all 21 economies in the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.  In March, China’s then-Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  told
reporters that the nation is open to regional trade cooperation
that is transparent and doesn’t exclude any countries.  TPP countries agreed to admit Japan to the talks on April
20, saying in a statement that it would allow Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s government to join “in a manner that allows the
negotiations to continue expeditiously toward conclusion.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  