-- CMHC Pares Capital-Enhancing Mortgage Insurance for Lende
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-05-30T15:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/cmhc-says-mortgage-insurance-balance-drops-to-c-562-6-billion.html
Canada ’s federal housing agency
released first-quarter  results  today showing it reduced the
coverage it provides to banks on mortgages that don’t require
insurance.  The amount of portfolio insurance, which covers mortgages
that had a downpayment greater than 20 percent, fell 8 percent
to C$227.9 billion ($221 billion) at the end of March compared
with the same period last year, Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp.
said in the report.  Canada’s government has capped the amount of mortgage
insurance the federal housing agency can extend at C$600
billion, pushing lenders to assume more of the risk posed by
record household debt levels. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney has called consumer debt the biggest domestic risk to the
world’s 11th largest economy.  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said in his March budget that
mortgages carrying portfolio insurance would eventually have to
be securitized through CMHC. The government said the change was
intended to restore “taxpayer-backed portfolio insurance to its
original purpose of allowing access to funding for mortgage
assets.”  Flaherty tightened rules on insured mortgages for the
fourth time in four years in July on concern some regional
housing markets were overheating.  Portfolio Insurance  By law, Canadian mortgages that have less than a 20 percent
downpayment must be insured. CMHC, based in Ottawa, insures most
of the nation’s mortgages.  Since the 2008 financial crisis, Canadian lenders have used
government-backed insured mortgages to shore up capital in
accordance with international standards. CMHC’s insurance is
fully backed by the federal government.  The volume of portfolio insurance issued by CMHC in the
first three months of the year plunged 98 percent compared with
the same period last year, according to the report. CMHC Chief
Financial Officer Brian Naish told reporters on a conference
call today the decline was a result of lenders requesting
“higher-than-normal” levels of portfolio insurance in the
first quarter of 2012, after the agency announced it was
rationing coverage.  “What you’re seeing now is a decrease due to lenders
changing the timing of the takeup of portfolio insurance
product,” he said.  The agency said its total mortgage insurance balance was
C$562.6 billion, down 1.2 percent compared with the end of March
last year.  Revenue dropped 13 percent to C$3.1 billion from the same
period last year, while net income decreased 15 percent to C$378
million, CMHC said.  Housing starts will reach 190,300 units this year and
194,100 units next year, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  