-- Coach Chasing Python Pump Lovers Risks 73% Profit Margin
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-05-30T13:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/coach-chasing-python-pump-lovers-risks-73-profit-margin.html
Coach Inc. (COH)  has fought for relevance
in recent years by introducing bling-laden products to attract
younger shoppers and then bringing back more classic lines for
its long-time customers. Yet the company remained true to its
roots: finely crafted leather bags.  Now, in a defensive move as upstarts such as  Michael Kors
Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  and Tory Burch LLC challenge its dominance of that
market, New York-based Coach is trying to become a full
lifestyle brand that outfits customers from head to toe.  It’s starting with shoes, a business that is more
competitive and growing more slowly than handbags, while also
presenting challenges Coach hasn’t faced much before. Where bags
will always fit over a woman’s arm, Coach runs the risk of
having too many or too few shoe sizes in stock. Shoes also don’t
lend themselves to the gallery-like presentation of Coach’s
bags. Analysts say the whole idea could put the company’s
legendary profitability at risk.  “Coach’s shoe strategy is an uphill battle,” Brian
Pitera, a Chicago-based principal at the consulting firm  A.T.
Kearney , said in an interview.  In an e-mail response to questions, Andrea Resnick, a Coach
spokeswoman, said footwear is “a significant opportunity.”  “We are in the early stages,” Resnick said. “We will
move purposefully.”  While Coach isn’t the first company to try to extend its
brand into new areas, it is trying to do so from a position of
weakness, said Robert Burke, founder of a namesake luxury
research firm in New York. Companies typically expand this way
when they’ve grown so strong in their initial market that
customers demand the brand on other items, Burke said.  Designer Halo  Successful lifestyle brands usually start in apparel and
enjoy the halo that comes from a celebrity designer sending
fashion down runways, Burke said. Ralph Lauren began selling
men’s ties four decades ago and diligently built his English
country life and American West brand imagery, methodically
applying it to more and more categories from men’s to women’s to
kids’ to home goods, layering in labels in different price
ranges.  Tory Burch  started out in 2004 with apparel.  Accessories-driven brands such as  Prada SpA (1913)  have turned
themselves into successful lifestyle brands by moving quickly to
stage fashion shows and add categories, Burke said.  In recent years, Michael Kors,  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) , Tory
Burch, and  Fifth & Pacific Cos.’ (FNP)  Kate Spade brand moved more
aggressively into Coach’s territory, chasing handbags’ lucrative
margins. Coach for the first time lost North American handbag
market share in the quarter ended in December. In January, Coach
responded by saying it would work harder to become more of a
lifestyle brand after spending years content to dominate the
handbag market.  Faux Python  Coach has offered some shoes before, such as $98 casual
“C” logo sneakers. Its new line, introduced in more than 170
North American stores in March, is larger, more fashionable and
higher-priced, with styles including “Nala” faux python pumps
for $248 and “Dalia” ballet flats at $138. The company has
installed shoe salons in some flagship locations and made shoes
the feature of its windows in more than 75 locations.  The shoes will be added globally in the second half of this
year, and Coach also plans to work on boosting sales at the
department stores that carry its wares. The retailer will
consider developing men’s shoes in the quarters ahead and may
add footwear to its factory outlets, executives have said.  “We see ourselves growing a very substantial footwear
business,” Victor Luis, who becomes chief executive officer
next year, said at an investors  conference  last month.  The new shoes are being produced by Jimlar Corp., the Great
Neck, New York-based company Coach has had a licensing deal with
since 1999.  Footwear Sales  Coach said footwear sales at retail would be about $250
million in the fiscal year ending in June, while declining to
provide the previous year’s footwear sales or provide targets.
In the previous year, Coach got about 7 percent of its  revenue ,
or about $333.4 million, from products other than accessories
and handbags, a category that also includes scarves, jewelry and
sunglasses.  Investors and analysts have so far been skeptical of
Coach’s plans. The shares rose 4.9 percent this year through
yesterday, trailing the 20 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Consumer Discretionary Index and  Michael Kors ’s 25
percent increase. Coach traded at a 22 percent discount to the
index on a price-to-earnings basis and a 52 percent discount to
Michael Kors yesterday. About 55 percent of the analysts
tracking Coach recommend buying the shares, compared with 84
percent for Michael Kors. Coach was little changed at $58.25 at
9:31 a.m. in New York today.  Shoe Market  Part of the caution is due to the business Coach is pushing
into. Total U.S. sales of women’s shoes climbed 3.5 percent to
$23.5 billion in the 12 months ended in March, slower than the
handbag category’s 5 percent advance to $7.24 billion, according
to NPD Group Inc., a  Port Washington , New York-based market-research firm.  Stores also have to carry lots of sizes, and markdowns to
clear inventory could eat into margins, said Faye Landes, an
 analyst  with Cowen & Co., who is based in New York, said in a
phone interview.  Coach’s  gross margin  -- the portion of sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods -- was 72.8 percent in its most
recent fiscal year.  Ralph Lauren  posted 59.8 percent while shoe-focused  Deckers Outdoor Corp. (DECK) ’s was 44.7 percent.  Coach Chairman Lew Frankfort said last month that footwear
will help boost sales and profitability and won’t materially
affect the company’s overall operating margin.  The early read on the shoe strategy has been positive,
Coach said. Shoes as a percentage of sales at the Coach stores
where they were reintroduced grew to almost 12 percent in the
first five weeks from 3 percent, according to the company.  ‘Powerhouse’ Brand  Coach is making “a very good move” because shoes are a
hot category and the company has a “powerhouse” brand that can
sell a lot of footwear along with its handbags globally, said
Mortimer Singer, president of  New York  retail consulting firm
Marvin Traub Associates.  While the early shoe sales results are encouraging, the
boost occurred in a limited number of stores and was helped by
national ads, Landes said.  The gain also may not last because the shoes look like “a
me-too product,” with some being discounted down to $69 a pair
Pitera said.  Cowen’s Landes, who  rates  the shares neutral, the
equivalent of hold, sees another reason for caution, the same
one that drew Coach to expand beyond handbags.  “There is more competition,” she said. “The competition
has greater momentum.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in  Washington  at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  