-- Colorado Farms Push Bennet on Immigration as Peppers Rot
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-05-30T00:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/colorado-farms-push-bennet-on-immigration-as-peppers-rot.html
As he surveyed a field of three-week-old sweet corn, Colorado farmer  Bob Sakata  told how a shortage
of hands to pack the vegetable forced him to downsize his
operations by 40 percent over the past decade.  “We were farming close to 4,000 acres and we cut it back
to 2,400,” said Sakata, 87, who has farmed in the state for 67
years. “It has a big economic impact on the community. We used
to hire 400 people and last year it was 191.”  Even as unemployment remains above pre-recession levels, at
6.9 percent in April, industries that are pillars of Colorado’s
economy, including agriculture, tourism and technology, share a
common predicament: They can’t find enough employees, weakening
their ability to remain competitive and profitable, their owners
and executives say.  Sakata is among business leaders who took their concerns to
U.S. Senator Michael Bennet, co-author of the first major
overhaul of the nation’s immigration law in almost 30 years.
Bennet said he incorporated their concerns in the bill.  “I think what we and they discovered along the way is that
there are enough folks that want to fix this that if we put our
mind to it, we could actually fix it,” the 48-year-old  Colorado 
Democrat said in an interview. “It was surprising to a lot of
people that it was as big of an issue as it was.”  The Senate plans to start work on the legislation, known as
 S744 , the week of June 10. The Judiciary Committee approved the
measure 13-5 on May 21.  Business Concerns  Among the issues raised by Colorado business leaders: The
shortage of farm workers caused growers to lose thousands of
dollars when squash and peppers went unpicked last fall.
Unanswered ads for ranch hands meant calves died because no one
was available to deliver them. A dearth of bilingual ski
instructors prompted Brazilians to vacation elsewhere. An
absence of software engineers doubled production cycles for
technology companies.  “I have a bunch of openings on my website I can’t fill,”
said JB Holston, chairman and founding chief executive officer
of Denver-based NewsGator Technologies Inc., a social media
aggregation company.  “For every three months I have to be out searching for six
people, that’s delayed a product in production by one life
cycle,” Holston said. “In my business, that kills us. We
emulate what  Facebook (FB) , Instagram and Twitter do but we do it for
very large corporations so it’s all secure and scalable. The
faster we can emulate those things the better we’re serving our
customers.”  Citizenship Path  Companies throughout the U.S. could gain access to both
lower-skilled and higher-skilled workers who are in this country
on visas if the proposal is enacted. The bill would also offer
the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in this country
a path to citizenship.  Colorado business executives said in interviews that they
communicated to Bennet and his staff the urgency of their
concerns that years of labor shortages are causing their
companies, like those in other states, to lose business
opportunities to other countries.  “We put all this energy on getting and educating people
from other countries here and we don’t let them stay and create
innovative companies,” said  Brad Feld , managing director at the
Foundry Group, a Boulder-based venture capital firm. “ Canada 
and the U.K. have adopted various immigration policies that are
essentially a copy of the stuff we’ve been talking about.”  Foreign entrepreneurs looking to start companies in America
would be eligible for visas under Bennet’s signature
contribution to the Senate’s immigration plan. According to the
senator’s staff, one of every 10 Colorado entrepreneurs is an
immigrant.  Faster Growth  Colorado’s immigrant population growth outpaced the nation
in the past decade, with newcomers comprising 11.4 percent of
the state’s labor force. Yet companies in the state are still in
need of immigrants as full-and part-time employees for both
blue-collar jobs and professional positions.  Immigrant workers comprise one in 10 employees in the
state’s professional, scientific, administrative services,
manufacturing, agriculture and mining fields, and two of every
10 people in the construction industry, according to a Feb. 14
 report  by the Colorado Center on Law & Policy, a Denver-based
social justice nonprofit.  “Immigrants are a rising proportion of the labor force and
contribute significantly to Colorado’s total economic output,”
wrote Christopher Stiffler, an economist at the  center , in the
report. “In fact, immigrants contribute approximately $42
billion dollars in total output to the Colorado economy.”  To keep this piece of the economy afloat, business leaders
said, they need access to a more efficient, less expensive visa
system that allows for more guest workers to do seasonal jobs
and skilled laborers to fill full-time ranch and tech positions.  ‘Global Industry’  “Agriculturalists such as myself, we are in a global
industry, we’re in competition with producers across the
world,” said T. Wright Dickinson, president of the Arvada-based
 Colorado Cattlemen’s Association .  “If we can’t import a workforce you will see these farms
and ranches move offshore,” added Dickinson, whose family owns
a ranch in the northwestern part of the state.  The current visa program available to agriculture operators
is cumbersome and the rules change from year to year, Dickinson
said. The Senate immigration bill would simplify the process for
hiring guest workers by replacing the current system with a visa
process administered by the U.S. Agriculture Department and by
giving undocumented farm workers a faster path to citizenship,
according to a bill summary provided by Bennet’s office.  Simplified Process  Colorado vegetable grower  David Petrocco Sr.  said a
simplified visa process might have helped him find 40 workers he
lacked in 2012. The shortage forced him to leave peppers, squash
and green beans to rot in the fields. Petrocco said he needs as
many as 375 hands to tend and harvest 2,600 acres from July
through September.  “All the vegetables in the state are harvested during
those months, as well as fruits on the Western slope, melons in
the south and onions in the north,” Petrocco said as he walked
across a field brimming with fragile onion seedlings near
Greeley, about 56 miles (90 kilometers) north of Denver.  “There always seems to be a point in the season where farm
labor runs short,” he added. “We’ve been short enough to where
we weren’t able to harvest all our crops and we lost thousands
of dollars.”  Ski Resorts  The revamped guest worker program included in immigration
legislation would also help ski resorts hire temporary
housekeepers, food and beverage servers, lift operators and ski
instructors when they’re ramping up for the season in November,
said Melanie Mills, president and chief executive of  Colorado
Ski Country USA , a Denver-based trade group.  “We’ve been pretty unsuccessful in bringing in workers
even though we know they are out there -- we leave business on
the table,” she said.  “One of our top markets is  Brazil , they like to come on
ski holiday and bring their extended family and they want
instructors who speak Portuguese,” she added. “They can come
to Colorado, or they can go to Europe where they know they can
find ski instructors who speak their language.”  Colorado’s 10,000 technology companies, which employ the
 third-highest  concentration of such workers in the country, said
they need more visas for highly-skilled employees. The
legislation would raise the number of visas -- something sought
by tech companies for years.  Increased Funding  Managers in the industry are also interested in increased
funding in the immigration reform bill to train more Americans
for these jobs.  “If we can get through immigration reform, I’ll employ
more software engineers and I’ll be able to get them where they
exist,” said Holston, NewsGator’s founder. “We certainly
envision doubling our technical team here in the U.S. over the
next two to three years -- if we can find folks and hire them
fast enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Jennifer Oldham in Denver
at   joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  