-- Copper Drops to Two-Week Low on Mine Restart, China
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-05-30T18:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/copper-drops-to-two-week-low-on-mine-restart-china.html
Copper rose in  New York , heading for
the first monthly gain since January, on concern that miners
will refuse to resume work at Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc.’s site in  Indonesia  after an accident halted production.  Officials at the Grasberg complex should be suspended until
an investigation behind a tunnel collapse that killed 28 people
has been completed, Virgo Solossa, head of the Mimika branch of
the All Indonesian Workers Union in the Chemical, Energy and
Mining Sectors, said in a telephone interview. Tomorrow, the
union will call on workers not to return to work, he said.  “This is a serious turn of events, as production could now
be sidelined for several more weeks, increasing pressure on what
already is a physically tight market,”  Edward Meir , an analyst
at INTL FCStone in New York, said in a report today. “The
Grasberg news should provide an element of support over the
short-term.”  Copper futures for delivery in July rose 0.6 percent to
settle at $3.3155 a pound at 1:18 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
Prices have risen 4 percent this month.  Freeport is slowly resuming operations after work began
again at the Grasberg open-pit and mill on May 28, the Phoenix-based company’s local unit said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. The accident occurred on May 14. BHP Billiton Ltd.’s
Escondida in  Chile  is the world’s largest copper mine, followed
by Grasberg.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months added 0.7 percent to $7,317 a metric ton ($3.32 a pound).  Stockpiles monitored by the LME fell for a fifth session to
611,125 tons. Inventories are poised for the first monthly
decline since September.  Also on the LME, zinc for delivery in three months climbed
1.6 percent to $1,915 a ton, above its 55-day moving average
near $1,893.  “A close above the 55-day moving average would spur a new
wave of buyers,” George Adcock, an analyst at Marex Spectron
Group in London, said by e-mail earlier.  Lead, tin and aluminum rose in London. Nickel slid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  