-- Credit Suisse Settles Elbit Suit Stemming From Fraud
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/credit-suisse-settles-elbit-suit-stemming-from-fraud.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Elbit
Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  agreed to a settlement of the Israeli defense
contractor’s lawsuit seeking to hold the bank liable for the
conduct of two former brokers convicted of defrauding investors.  Elbit, Israel’s biggest non-government developer of defense
technology, said it would withdraw its lawsuit “in return for
the payment of an undisclosed amount,” according to a company
statement yesterday.  Ex-Credit Suisse broker  Eric Butler  was convicted by a
federal jury in Brooklyn,  New York , in August 2009 of
intentionally misleading clients by saying their investments
were backed by federally guaranteed student loans when the
instruments were actually auction-rate securities tied to the
housing market. Victims sustained losses of more than $1.1
billion, according to the government.  Julian Tzolov , Butler’s partner, pleaded guilty and
testified against him at trial. Both men were sentenced to five
years in prison.  Elbit sued in federal court in Manhattan in 2010, alleging
that the bank’s role “was to keep the fraudulent scheme hidden
from the public, the federal authorities and from the victims
themselves, for as long as possible.”  U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  in January denied a bid by
Credit Suisse to dismiss the suit.  Katya Jestin, a lawyer for Haifa, Israel-based Elbit,
declined to comment on the settlement. Mark Hanchet, a lawyer
for Zurich-based Credit Suisse, didn’t immediately respond to a
voice-mail message left at his office yesterday seeking comment.  The civil case is Elbit Systems Ltd. v. Credit Suisse
Group, 10-cv-10, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  