-- CVC Capital Partners Preparing IPO of Danish Drugstore Matas
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-05-30T11:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/cvc-capital-partners-preparing-ipo-of-danish-drugstore-matas-1-.html
CVC  Capital Partners  Ltd. is
preparing to sell a stake in drugstore chain  Matas  to the public
and may announce the deal this week, according to three people
familiar with the talks.  The sale is being arranged by five banks, including  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA)  and  SEB AB (SEBA) , said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the offering has yet to be made public.  CVC 
will continue to hold a controlling stake after the sale, one of
the people said. The offering would value Matas at about 6
billion kroner ($1 billion), according to one of the people.  A spokesman representing CVC declined to comment. Calls to
Matas weren’t immediately answered. CVC bought Matas in February
2007.  Denmark’s benchmark  OMXC20 Index (KFX)  has advanced 10 percent
this year,  compared  with an 8.4 percent gain in the STOXX Europe
600 Index.  The Matas offering will be the first new entry to the
Copenhagen stock market since 2010, when  Zealand Pharma A/S (ZEAL)  sold
shares and French private-equity fund PAI Partners listed
ingredients maker Chr. Hansen Holding A/S. Axcel Capital
Partners listed  Pandora A/S (PNDORA)  that same year.  ISS A/S, the private-equity owned cleaning firm and
facilities manager that is the world’s largest private employer,
said in August it plans to list in Copenhagen by 2015. Goldman
Sachs Capital Partners and EQT Partners AB pulled ISS’s $8.2
billion IPO in 2011, one day after an earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan  sent world stock markets plunging.  Nordea’s top investment banker, Casper von Koskull, said in
an interview last week that the bank is “bullish on debt
markets” and “much less so on equities and initial public
offerings.” There are only a dozen IPO candidates in the region
as companies shy from equity markets worldwide, Koskull said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  