-- DBS Bank Deal Seen Derailed as Indonesia Bars Control: Real M&A
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-05-30T11:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/dbs-bank-deal-seen-derailed-as-indonesia-bars-control-real-m-a.html
Investors are betting that Indonesia
will drive  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  to abandon Southeast Asia’s
largest bank takeover.  Indonesia’s central bank last week gave approval for
Singapore-based DBS, which bid $6.8 billion for all of PT Bank
Danamon Indonesia, to buy only 40 percent of the company as the
regulator pushes for Indonesian banks to have equal access in
Singapore. With the agreement expiring in three days, Danamon is
trading at a larger discount to its takeover price than any
pending deal in Asia larger than $500 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While a minority stake in Danamon would cut DBS’s reliance
on Singapore, which is Southeast Asia’s least lucrative lending
market, Indonesian ownership laws can bar the bank from ever
gaining full control. The original deal, struck more than a year
ago, assumed DBS would buy all of Danamon, and the terms must be
changed before a smaller purchase is logical for DBS, said CMC
Markets  Singapore  Pte. The other option is for DBS to scrap the
transaction altogether, according to IG Asia Pte.  “At this point, it’s not a good deal for DBS,” Kelly Teoh, a Singapore-based market strategist at IG Asia, said in a
phone interview. “A minority stake doesn’t make sense for DBS,
without the control to steer the business in the direction they
would like. I won’t be surprised if they step away from this.”  New Restrictions  DBS said last year that it would pay about 66.4 trillion
rupiah ($6.8 billion) to buy Danamon from Singapore’s state-owned investment company, Temasek Holdings Pte, and minority
shareholders. Temasek will swap its 67 percent stake in Danamon
for shares of DBS, while the other investors will be offered
7,000 rupiah apiece in cash.  The deal was announced before  Indonesia , Southeast Asia’s
most profitable lending market, revealed new rules that restrict
ownership of local banks. Speaking to Parliament last week,
Darmin Nasution, who was then Bank Indonesia governor, said DBS
is allowed to buy 40 percent of Danamon. The new rules, unveiled
last July, allow ownership to rise above the 40 percent
threshold if certain conditions are met.  The regulator is also seeking better access to Singapore
for Indonesia’s lenders -- something the Monetary Authority of
Singapore acknowledged it is exploring in a May 21 statement. In
pursuing equal access for Indonesian lenders that want to expand
in Singapore, Bank Indonesia hasn’t specified the details of
such reciprocity.  Deadline Looms  “There seems to be much remaining up for discussion in
this deal, but with a 40 percent minority stake and the original
terms well away from current levels, this no longer seems as
attractive a deal for DBS,” Jason Hughes, Singapore-based head
of sales trading at CMC Markets, said in an e-mail.  The takeover agreement, already extended once, is now set
to expire on June 2. Spokesmen for DBS and Temasek, which is
DBS’s largest  shareholder , declined to comment on any
renegotiation or potential extension.  Danamon will only make further announcements once it
receives an official written notification from Bank Indonesia
about its ruling, said Zsa Zsa Yusharyahya, a Jakarta-based
spokeswoman for Danamon.  The outcome may depend on how successfully DBS can persuade
Singapore’s authorities to reach an agreement with Indonesia, an
economic rival, said Pitra Narendra, a Jakarta-based senior
associate at Vriens & Partners, an advisory firm that
specializes in assessing the political risk of investments in
the region.  Presidential Elections  The Monetary Authority of Singapore referred to its May 21
statement when asked to comment. Difi Johansyah, a Jakarta-based
spokesman for Bank Indonesia, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Next year’s Indonesia presidential elections, the latest
bank-ownership laws and a new central bank governor who started
this month all attach more risk to any investment, Narendra
said.  “A party might pick up this issue during the campaign and
politicize it,” Narendra said in a phone interview. “If you
look at the history between Indonesia and Singapore, there are
outstanding contentious issues.”  Danamon  shares  have dropped 4.2 percent to 5,750 rupiah
since Nasution’s May 21 speech, leaving Danamon trading at an 18
percent discount to the value of DBS’s takeover offer. That’s
the furthest below the bid of any Asian takeover for more than
$500 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Danamon was unchanged in Jakarta trading today, while DBS
fell 0.9 percent to S$16.97 in Singapore.  Relative Value  Left only with the option to buy 40 percent of Danamon, DBS
may be able to renegotiate the deal at a lower price, perhaps by
granting Temasek an option to sell the rest at a higher price
later, Kevin Kwek, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in
Singapore, wrote in a note yesterday.  “The 40 percent stake in a fast-growing lender would still
open significant opportunities for DBS in Indonesia,” Ruta Cereskeviciute, a London-based senior economist at IHS Global
Insight, said in an e-mail. “It is less likely that DBS will
walk away from the deal altogether.”  In that case, Bernstein’s Kwek expects DBS to pay less than
2 times  book value  for the stake. At twice the value of its net
assets, Danamon’s shares would be worth 6,156 rupiah each, or 12
percent less than DBS’s existing offer.  The lower valuation would fall below the median of 2.16
times currently fetched by 14 Indonesian banks with market
values of more than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
 Japan ’s  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  this month agreed
to pay 4.57 times book value for 40 percent of PT Bank Tabungan
Pensiunan Nasional.  Lending Margins  Still, DBS’s intention was never to own a smaller stake,
said Ken Ang, a Singapore-based analyst at Phillip Securities
Pte. The purchase was a key plank in DBS’s plans to increase
 earnings  from faster growing and more profitable markets in
Asia. Last year DBS generated more than 80 percent of its income
from Singapore and Hong Kong.  Average lending  margins  of 7.3 percent at Indonesia’s
largest banks are four times fatter than in Singapore and the
best among the world’s 20 biggest economies, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. With just 40 percent of Danamon and no clarity
on whether it will ever gain more, DBS won’t be able to extract
the same benefits from the business as it would with total
 control , Ang said.  “It may not be in DBS’s favor to purchase 40 percent now
and wait and see what happens next,” Ang said in a phone
interview. “It might be an all-or-nothing issue.”  ‘Walk Away’  Another disincentive to DBS owning a minority stake is that
new rules would require the bank to deduct the entire value of
the investment from Tier 1 capital, funds to protect a bank
against potential losses. Compared to the acquisition of the
entire bank, the capital requirements under international Basel
III guidelines make ownership of 40 percent “sub-optimal,”
Krishna Guha, a Singapore-based analyst at Jefferies Group LLC,
wrote in an April 23 note to clients.  Without a guarantee of control, the purchase isn’t worth
pursuing for DBS, said Wee Siang Ng, a Singapore-based analyst
at Moody’s Investors Service.  “They will walk away from the deal,” he said by e-mail.
“I also think they should walk away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  