-- Dell Investor Suit Says Founder’s Buyout Bid Is Too Low
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-05-31T16:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/dell-investors-sue-over-founder-s-buyout-bid-for-computer-maker.html
Dell Inc. founder Michael Dell, the
company’s board and private-equity partners backing Dell’s bid
to take the computer maker private were sued in  Texas  by
investors seeking to block the deal.  Shareholders, led by a private investor and the Mid-South
Iron Workers Pension Fund, said the founder’s $24.4 billion
offer is underpriced when measured against Dell’s recent stock
buyback program and competing valuations proposed by major
stakeholder  Carl Icahn , according to the complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Houston.  “After his failed management choices led to significant
losses for Dell and a resulting decrease in the company’s stock
price, defendant Michael Dell is now attempting to take
advantage of the company’s distressed stock price to buy the
company on the cheap just as it is starting to experience a
turnaround,” John Michael Van Buiten, an investor who seeks to
represent other shareholders in a class action, said in the
complaint.  A similar complaint was filed in Delaware Chancery Court in
February.  Dell and Silver Lake Management LLC’s offer of $13.65 a
share to take the company private represents a 27 percent
discount from the company’s 2012 share price, rather than the 25
percent premium Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  portrays it
to be, according to the Texas complaint. Over the last two
years, Dell has been aggressively repurchasing stock at an
average price of $15.25 a share, the investors said.  Fiduciary Duty  The shareholders also claim the board violated its
fiduciary duty by failing to solicit or consider competing bids
that didn’t allow Michael Dell to “gain a controlling stake in
the company and remain as CEO.”  In a buyout by the Michael Dell group, the implied savings
of $1.60 a share at the lower price to acquire about 1.74
billion company shares outstanding would be almost $2.8 billion.
The CEO and family trusts would put more than 273 million shares
into the new company, according to the latest proxy statement
for the deal filed today.  The $2.8 billion savings is partly Michael Dell’s, enabling
him to control the company for less.  In the proxy, Dell relates how adviser JPMorgan Chase & Co.
gave a gloomy assessment of the company to a board committee at
a September meeting. The bank highlighted managers’
shortcomings, “specifically, the company’s failure to meet
management and consensus analyst quarterly expectations,” and
risks facing Dell in changing its focus from personal computers
to more profitable enterprise storage and services, the proxy
says.  Competitive Harm  JPMorgan also noted “the absence of any stated third-party
interest in acquiring the company over the prior two-year
period,” Dell’s proxy says. On the subject of inviting bids,
the committee discussed “the potential risk of competitive
harm” if an offer wasn’t made “and the increased risk of
leaks, which could create instability among the company’s
employees as well as its customers and vendors,” according to
the proxy.  In a letter to shareholders today, Dell’s board committee
asked them to vote for the CEO’s deal. The committee said it
negotiated $4 billion of price increases with Michael Dell and
Silver Lake Management while contacting 73 other companies and
investors.  “No superior offer has materialized,” the committee said
in the letter filed with regulators.  Competing Offer  Icahn, the billionaire financier, has proposed a competing
offer that would pay investors $12 a share in cash or stock
while letting them retain stakes in a public company. Private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  had also researched a possible
bid for Dell before withdrawing last month.  Silver Lake Management, Michael Dell’s private-equity
partner, is contributing about $1 billion in cash toward the
proposed acquisition. The firm is named in the suit along with
three private-equity entities partly owned by Michael Dell.  Michael Dell is seeking to buy the  Round Rock , Texas-based
computer maker he created in 1984 so it can remake itself
without the pressure of being public as it struggles to compete
against smart phones and tablets. He owns 15.6 percent of the
company.  At the time Dell’s buyout bid was unveiled in February,
company shares had lost more than half their value since January
2007, when Dell resumed his role as CEO, amid investor dismay
with management’s failure to cope with upstart competitors in
mobile and cloud computing.  The case is Van Buiten v.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , 4:13-1585, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at  laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  