-- Dimitrov Tries to Shed ‘Baby Federer’ Tag at French Open
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-30T23:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/dimitrov-tries-to-shed-baby-federer-tag-at-french-open.html
Ever since he joined the professional
tennis tour as a teenager,  Grigor Dimitrov  has been weighed down
by expectations.  Nicknamed “Baby Federer” because his playing style
resembles that of 17-time Grand Slam champion  Roger Federer , the
Bulgarian is trying to lose that tag at the  French Open .  The 22-year-old took a big step in that process yesterday
by reaching the third round of a major tournament for the first
time. A 6-1, 7-6 (7-4), 6-1 victory against  France ’s Lucas
Pouille earned him a matchup with men’s top seed Novak Djokovic.  “I’ve been carrying that with me for many years, I don’t
know what I have to do to get rid of it,” Dimitrov said of his
nickname in an interview at the Rome Masters shortly before
Roland Garros. “It will be nice if it ends.”  The 26th-seeded Dimitrov has been talked about as a future
top player ever since he won the junior titles at Wimbledon and
the  U.S. Open  in 2008. In 2009, he began working with Peter Lundgren, a former coach of Federer, who drew comparisons
between the two players. Just like Federer, Dimitrov has a solid
one-handed backhand and strong all-court coverage.  Dimitrov said being likened to Federer was “cool” at
first before becoming a burden.  “I thought I was there already, at 17, 18,” said
Dimitrov, who is dating women’s French Open defending champion
 Maria Sharapova  of  Russia . “I was like, ‘I am the thing.’ Well,
in the end I wasn’t nearly close to the thing.”  Rankings Progress  His progress has been slow and steady in the past five
years. From a world ranking of 1,198 at the beginning of 2008,
he got into the top 500 by the end of that year. Dimitrov was in
the top 300 by the end of 2009, No. 106 by the end of 2010 and
No. 76 a year later. He moved into the top 50 late last year,
and began the French Open ranked 28th in the world. He is the
youngest player currently in the top 50.  He’s pushed the world’s top players this season on European
clay courts and is now seeded at a major for the first time.  In April, Dimitrov took seven-time French Open champion
 Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  to three sets in the quarterfinals of the
Monte Carlo Masters. Earlier this month, he knocked top seed
Djokovic out in the second round at the Madrid Masters in a
three-hour match.  In November, he switched from the Mouratoglou Academy in
Paris to the Good to Great Tennis Academy in  Stockholm  and is
coached by former tour players Mikael Tillstrom, Magnus Norman
and Nicklas Kulti. Dimitrov said his five-week training session
in Stockholm during the offseason at the end of 2012 was tough.  ‘Sacrifice Things’  “I didn’t see the light for like three or four days,” he
said. “It was a time I didn’t see anything besides courts and
gym. That’s a bit of a bummer. But what can you do? You
sacrifice things.”  Dimitrov, who is 6-foot-2 (1.88 meters) and weighs 176
pounds (80 kilograms), in the past has struggled with cramps and
has run out of energy in long matches.  “I feel much stronger in my body, I am not aching as much
as before,” he said.  Serbia’s Djokovic, 26, who lost only four games while
defeating  Argentina ’s Guido Pella yesterday in the second round,
said he’s wary of Dimitrov’s ability.  “He got more confident as he was getting big wins in last
few months, and so he’s a tough player to beat now,” Djokovic
told reporters. “I need to be on top of my game.”  Dimitrov said in a news conference at  Roland Garros 
yesterday that he’s ready to take on Djokovic for the second
time this month.  “I’m going to smile coming out on the court,” he said.
“The most important thing is just to go out there and try to
enjoy the game. And at the same time I’m really looking forward
to playing at my best. You never know what’s going to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros at  drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  