-- Disney Falls After Rasulo Tempers Expectations for Quarter
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-05-30T20:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/disney-falls-after-rasulo-tempers-expectations-for-quarter-1-.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  fell the most in more
than a month after Chief Financial Officer Jay Rasulo tempered
expectations for the current quarter, citing film marketing
costs and tough comparisons with a year earlier.  Shares of Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California ,  declined 
2.4 percent to $64.65 at the close in  New York , the most since
April 15. The stock has gained 30 percent this year.  Rasulo, speaking at a Nomura Securities investor
conference, said he was reiterating and elaborating on comments
made earlier this month that the company’s film studio and theme
parks would be up against tough year-over-year  comparisons  in
the current fiscal third quarter.  “When I’m looking at  estimates  across the Street, maybe I
wasn’t clear or they weren’t properly reflected,” Rasulo said.  Disney will incur significant marketing costs for “The
Lone Ranger” this quarter, while revenue from the film won’t
start to flow until July 3, after the period ends, he said.
“Iron Man 3,” while collecting about $1.2 billion at the
worldwide box office, will fall short of “Marvel’s The
Avengers” from last year, he said.  Those items will lower operating income at the film unit by
about $150 million from a year earlier, Rasulo said. In
addition, cable-sports channel ESPN will recognize about $75
million less in deferred revenue for the period than a year ago,
he said.  Less Easter  Theme-park results will reflect one less week of Easter
holiday traffic, compared with the same period last year, Rasulo
said. The company won’t get the same earnings boost from the new
cruise ship Fantasy as it did a year earlier because the ship
has now been operating for more than a year.  Analysts predict Disney will earn $1.05 a share this
quarter excluding items, the average of 29  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. They forecast sales of $11.8 billion.  Rasulo said the company’s  acquisition  strategy is focused
on film franchises that lead to business for other Disney units.
The 2006 purchase of the Pixar animation studio led to the
“Cars” movies, which translated into toys and theme-park
attractions. Marvel Entertainment brought “Iron Man 3” and
“The Avengers,” which is now being spun off into a television
show.  “This is how we like to allocate our capital,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  