-- LDK Solar May Miss Payment After Scrapping Silicon IPO
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-05-30T18:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/ldk-solar-may-miss-payment-after-scrapping-silicon-ipo.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the second-most
indebted solar manufacturer, won’t be able to pull off a deal
needed to cover a loan due to Chinese lenders next week.  The company “is not currently intending” to spin off its
polysilicon unit by June 3, as required under the terms of a
$240 million investment it received in 2011, according to a
filing May 20 with the Securities & Exchange Commission.  Failure to complete an initial public offering of its LDK
Silicon unit means holders of convertible preferred shares may
demand repayment of the investment plus 23 percent, about $295
million. It’s unlikely to make that payment, the second time
this quarter it missed a debt obligation, according to Angelo Zino, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC in
 New York .  “They can’t make the payment,” Zino said in an interview
yesterday. “We wouldn’t expect them to, based on cash on
hand.” The company had $98.3 million in  cash  at the end of
December, a three-year low.  Calls and e-mails to Xinyu, China-based LDK’s chief
financial officer Jack Lai in Sunnyvale,  California , weren’t
returned.  LDK will probably be able to renegotiate the debt with
 China Development Bank  and affiliates of Bank of  China  Ltd. and
 China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , Zino said. It may restructure the
preferred shares and “find a way to extend their time
horizon,” he said. The “lenders don’t really have any other
choice.”  Suntech Bankruptcy  That will help LDK avoid the fate of  Suntech Power Holdings
Co. (STP) , the industry’s biggest panel supplier in 2011. Suntech’s
main unit was dragged into bankruptcy proceedings in China in
March after the company defaulted on $541 million bond.  LDK didn’t fully repay a $23.8 million bond that matured
April 15.  The Chinese lenders bought the $240 million of convertible
preferred shares in LDK Silicon in June 2011, and LDK agreed to
complete an IPO of the unit within two years.  “They won’t IPO by June 3, given the state of the
market,” Zino said. The price of  polysilicon , the main raw
material in solar cells, fell 69 percent to $16.98 a kilogram
this month from June 2011.  LDK had $2.6 billion in debt as of Dec. 31, the most of any
company in the 15-member Bloomberg Industries Global Large Solar
Energy index after  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  Defaulting on
any of its “current or future debt obligations” may trigger an
accelerated-repayment clause in a $275 million bond that matures
in February.  ‘Substantial Doubt’  The terms may also bar LDK from taking on additional
liabilities, which would complicate any efforts to restructure
its debt and “raise substantial doubt as to our ability to
continue as a going concern,” according to its May 20 annual
report.  LDK hired hired Citigroup Inc. in December to help
renegotiate its liabilities. In January, China Development Bank
approved a 440 million  yuan  ($71.7 million) loan to LDK to
upgrade a polysilicon plant.  Cheng Kin Ming’s Fulai Investments Ltd. increased its stake
in the company to 25 percent in April as the company sold shares
to pay down debt.  “It seems like the Chinese lenders are still backing the
company,” said Zino. “They’ll be able to find some sort of an
agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  