-- Dollar Index Poised for Weekly Decline Before U.S. Spending Data
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-05-31T06:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/dollar-set-for-weekly-slide-before-spending-data-yen-declines.html
The Dollar Index was set for a weekly
decline ahead of a U.S. report today forecast to show consumer
spending stagnated, damping speculation the Federal Reserve will
taper its quantitative easing program.  The yen fell versus Group-of-10 currencies as a decline in
consumer prices added to the case for the Bank of Japan to step
up its stimulus efforts that tend to spur investors to chase
higher yields offshore. A gauge of expected swings in the euro
climbed to a two-month high before the European Central Bank
sets policy next week.  “The dollar has been very sensitive to the U.S. data,”
said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC) ,  Australia ’s second-biggest lender. “Clearly if the data
gets better, QE will likely be reduced, if the data gets worse,
QE could be increased, so that is the number-one story driving
the markets.”  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, was little changed at 83.044 as of 7:15 a.m. in
 London . It has fallen 0.8 percent in five days through today,
set for the biggest weekly slide since Feb. 1.  The yen weakened 0.1 percent to 100.82 per dollar, trimming
its weekly advance to 0.5 percent. It lost 0.1 percent to 131.49
per euro, having declined 0.4 percent since May 24. The
greenback traded at $1.3042 per euro from $1.3050, poised for a
0.8 percent decline this week.  Fed Policy  The U.S. central bank is buying bonds to boost the economy
through low borrowing costs, scooping up $85 billion of
government and mortgage debt a month. Fed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said on May 22 that the central bank may cut the pace
of purchases in the next few meetings if policy makers see
indications of sustained improvement in economic growth.  U.S. Commerce Department data today is likely to show that
consumer spending in the U.S. was unchanged in April from a
month earlier, according to the median estimate of economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  The personal-consumption-expenditure index deflator, the
Fed’s favored inflation gauge, probably fell 0.2 percent last
month from March, the most since May 2012, a separate poll of
economists shows.  In  Japan ,  consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.4
percent in April from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
today, compared with a 0.5 percent drop the prior month. The
inflation rate hasn’t been above zero in the past year.  The BOJ doubled its monthly bond purchases last month to
more than 7 trillion yen ($69 billion). The central bank aims to
achieve its 2 percent inflation target at the earliest time, BOJ
Deputy Governor Hiroshi Nakaso said today.  Yen ‘Bearish’  “We’re bearish on the yen over the medium term,” said
Westpac’s Speizer. “The reasons for that are continuing QE in
Japan and more outflows from Japan,” he said, referring to the
quantitative easing program of bond purchases.  Central bank Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said on April 12 that
investors are expected to shift to stocks and overseas bonds
from Japan’s government debt as a result of the central banks’s
“ massive ” purchases of JGBs.  The International Monetary Fund said today that it does
“not see the yen’s recent depreciation as problematic” as long
as monetary stimulus is directed toward domestic goals. The IMF
fully endorses the BOJ’s “sweeping enhancements” to its
monetary policy, it said in a statement.  The ECB is scheduled to have a policy meeting on June 6. It
cut the benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point to a record
0.5 percent on May 2, when President Mario Draghi signaled that
officials may take the unprecedented step of charging banks to
park excess cash with the ECB.  The one-week implied volatility of the euro, derived from
option premiums, jumped to as high as 11.3 percent today, a
level unseen since March 22. It has risen 3.9 percentage points
this week to 11.29 percent.  “Volatility could increase next week surrounding the ECB
press conference, in particular with reference to comments
surrounding negative deposit rates,” foreign-exchange
strategists at BNP Paribas SA, led by  Steven Saywell  in London,
wrote in a research yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  