-- Dubai Financial Gains Most in 14 Months on IPO Bets: Dubai Mover
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-05-30T12:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/dubai-financial-gains-most-in-14-months-on-ipo-bets-dubai-mover.html
Dubai Financial Market climbed the
most in more than a year as the emirate’s economic recovery
spurs investor expectations for initial public offerings on
the bourse.  The shares jumped 8.7 percent, the biggest gain since March
2012, to 1.63 dirhams at the close in the emirate, bringing the
gain this month to 30 percent. The stock was the most active on
the benchmark DFM General Index, which rose 1.2 percent. About
107 million shares were traded, or 5.4 times the three-month
daily average.  The bourse’s net income is poised to  more than triple  in
2013, according to the mean of four analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Dubai’s economy is set to expand by 4.6 percent on
average through 2015, according to government forecasts,  as it
benefits from Dubai’s plans to sell stakes in its companies to
the public.  “Investors have been buying into increasing volumes and
potential new IPOs,” said  Jaap Meijer , a director of equity
research at Dubai-based Arqaam Capital Ltd. The regulator’s
revenues are benefiting from “the strong interest from retail
and institutional investors, domestic and foreign.”  “Many companies” that fall under the umbrella of
Investment Corp. of Dubai, the emirate’s main state-owned
holding company known as ICD, would be candidates for IPOs,
Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  Al Maktoum , head of the emirate’s Supreme
Fiscal Committee, said in a May 7 interview with Bloomberg
this month.  Confident Investors  Trading  volumes , which contribute to the exchange’s
revenue, reached a daily average of 338 million shares this
year, more than double 2012 levels.  Investor confidence in the emirate, which was on the brink
of defaulting in 2009, has improved after three state-linked
companies paid or refinanced $3.75 billion of debt in 2012.
Dubai Group LLC, an  investment company  owned by the emirate’s
ruler, agreed this month on final terms with its main creditors
to restructure $6 billion.  Investors have piled into Dubai stocks, helping the measure
rally 46 percent this year, the world’s third-best performer
among 94 indexes tracked by Bloomberg. DFM shares have rallied
60 percent this year. Five analysts recommend investors sell the
shares, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  