-- Elan CEO Says Alternatives Exist If Shareholders Reject Deals
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-05-30T13:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/elan-ceo-says-alternatives-exist-if-shareholders-reject-deals.html
Elan Corp. Chief Executive Officer
Kelly Martin said alternative plans are ready in case
shareholders vote against transactions it proposed in the face
of a hostile takeover offer from Royalty Pharma.  An extraordinary general meeting of shareholders will be
held on June 17, when investors will vote on four proposed
transactions, including a $1 billion investment in  Theravance
Inc. (THRX) ’s royalties. Royalty Pharma’s takeover  offer  is contingent
on Elan investors voting against the Theravance deal, Royalty
has said.  “There’s always a plan B and a C,” Martin told reporters
after Elan’s annual shareholder meeting today in Dublin, where
the company is based. If the transactions are rejected, “you
would see Elan immediately announce a Plan B, because that’s a
strong signal from shareholders.”  Elan shareholders have expressed differing views on the
value of the Theravance deal, based on varying assessments from
brokerages, Chairman Robert Ingram said at the media briefing.  “We take nothing for granted,” Ingram said in response to
a question on whether there is concern that the vote will be
unfavorable for Elan. “To the degree that there is that
uncertainty, we will work very diligently with those
shareholders to try and answer those questions.”  The other three proposals Elan shareholders will vote on
were announced earlier this month and include a $340 million
takeover of Vienna-based AOP Orphan Pharmaceuticals AG. The
company also plans to issue $800 million in debt.  More Deals  Elan is considering several more transactions, including
more royalty-type deals, potentially for obesity and diabetes
treatments, Martin said.  The company is keeping “an open mind” with respect to
Amarin Corp., Ingram said in response to a shareholder’s
question. Dublin-based Amarin this year began marketing Vascepa,
a treatment for severely high levels of triglycerides. The
decision disappointed some investors, who had expected Amarin to
sell itself or license the product to a bigger drugmaker.  “That is still an opportunity we are considering,” Ingram
said when asked about Vascepa.  Royalty raised its bid for Elan to $6.4 billion on May 20
from a previous bid of $5.7 billion. The all-cash offer is
valued at $12.50 per American depositary receipt. The ADRs were
unchanged at $12.41 at the close in  New York  yesterday.  Pablo Legorreta, Royalty’s founder and a former Lazard
banker, is pursuing Elan after its chief executive officer,
former Merrill Lynch & Co. banker Kelly Martin, initially
offered to buy Royalty.  Risk Aversion  An acquisition by Royalty would enable Elan shareholders to
avoid the risks of Martin’s strategy of reinvesting the $3.25
billion Elan received from  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  for divesting its
stake in the multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri, Royalty has said.
Elan has said it will pay investors dividends directly linked to
Tysabri sales as a 20 percent share of the royalty received from
Biogen.  Fidelity Investments , Wellington Management Co. and
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are among money managers that have cut their
stakes in Elan in recent weeks in a sign the firms are content
with Royalty Pharma’s offer, Legorreta said in an interview this
week.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Groton
Partners are advising Royalty Pharma. Elan’s financial advisers
include Davy Corporate Finance, Morgan Stanley, Ondra Partners
and Citigroup Inc.  Founded in 1996, Royalty Pharma owns royalty interests in
38 approved and marketed pharmaceutical products. In 2004, the
firm bought  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center ’s U.S.
royalty interest in Amgen Inc.’s Neupogen drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  