-- Telecom Italia Board Approves Landmark Network Spinoff Plan
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-05-30T20:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/telecom-italia-board-is-said-to-approve-network-spinoff-plan-1-.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  directors approved
a plan to separate the carrier’s fixed-line network, setting a
precedent for  Europe ’s indebted phone companies as they look for
new ways to raise funds and bargain for lighter regulations.  The decision, made during a  board  meeting in  Rome  today,
would allow Telecom Italia to spin off its copper and fiber
assets, including street cabinets, into a new company, it said
in a statement. The assets are  valued  at about 14 billion euros
($18.3 billion), a person familiar with the matter has said.  The board also authorized managers to continue talks to
sell a stake in the new company to state lender Cassa Depositi e
Prestiti. A split may soften regulatory scrutiny of the Milan-based carrier and let it focus on faster-growing services such
as data and wireless. While phone companies have tried
separating fixed-line businesses before, fully carving out an
access network -- considered strategic by many governments --
would be unseen among European carriers.  “The network separation is a means for progressive
generation of cash but that’s not able to solve the persisting
problems in network access,” said  Alessandro Frova , a professor
of corporate finance at  Bocconi University .  Open Access  Telecom Italia will need to hold talks with Agcom, the
country’s telecommunications regulator, and agree on a framework
of rules governing the new company to ensure rivals have access
to its transmission network.  As owner of an underlying network, Telecom Italia faces
greater oversight than upstart rivals. The company must inform
 Italy ’s communications authority at least 30 days ahead of any
fixed-line phone and Internet offer so the watchdog can assess
whether rivals can replicate the offering.  Spinning off the network could ease that regulatory burden
since Telecom Italia would be a legally separate company that
buys capacity and offers service to subscribers, just as other
carriers do today.  Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe is considering a
sale of an initial 30 percent stake in the new company to Cassa
Depositi after a separation, people familiar with the matter
have said.  Telecom Italia, based in Milan,  jumped  more than 2 percent
from their intraday level after  Bloomberg News  reported the
decision, confirmed by the company 53 minutes later. The shares
closed 1.7 percent lower at 63.6 cents.  Network Spending  Telecom Italia is planning 10 billion euros in fiber-optic
investments for its fixed-network unit after the spinoff, two
people familiar with the matter have said. The spending, to be
made over 10 years, will help the new unit, Opac SpA, offer
faster Internet access and services including high-definition
video, said the people.  “Opac SpA’s  shareholders  could get a good return of these
investments because the company will probably work as a utility
with strong  cash flow ,” said Andrea Rangone, a professor of
business strategy at Politecnico of Milan. “Revenue and profits
will be strongly influenced by the decisions of Italian
authority which will regulate the unbundling, defining the price
that other operators have to pay for access.”  A spinoff would bring regulatory benefits and generate cash
that could help Telecom Italia reduce its  net debt  -- which at
28.8 billion euros at the end of March is more than double the
company’s market value -- and invest in expanding coverage.
Regulatory benefits are the company’s initial focus, two people
said.  Hutchison Linkup  The project is complicated also because it would involve
the transfer of as many as 20,000 positions, or one out of four
workers at the company. In a statement, Italy’s Cgil union said
network separation “raises a lot of doubts” and “doesn’t
match the need for clarity about the industrial policy and the
company’s future.”  Telecom Italia is separately evaluating a possible
combination of its wireless unit with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s 3
Italia, although  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Telecom Italia’s largest
shareholder, remains skeptical of a transaction, people familiar
with the matter have said. A merger would also likely attract
antitrust scrutiny, analysts have said. Telecom Italia said on
May 8 it plans to complete the review in 30 days.  Telco SpA, a group of investors made up of Telefonica,
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Mediobanca
SpA (MB) , is the biggest shareholder with a 22.4 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  