-- Ellington Plans IPO for Its Single-Family Rental Business
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-05-30T20:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/ellington-plans-ipo-for-its-single-family-rental-business.html
Ellington Management Group LLC, the
$5.3 billion investment firm founded by Michael Vranos that
specializes in mortgage-backed bonds, is planning an initial
public offering for its rental-home business.  Ellington Housing Inc. intends to use proceeds from the
stock sale to buy single-family homes, mortgages and multifamily
loans and properties,  Old Greenwich , Connecticut-based Ellington
Management said today in a statement. It didn’t say how much
money Ellington Housing plans to raise in the IPO.  Operators of single-family rental homes have been filing to
go public, creating a new real estate asset class in a field
once dominated by small investors. Private-equity firms and
 hedge funds  are seeking to take advantage of home  prices  that
are 28 percent below their 2006 peak and rising demand for
rentals as the U.S.  homeownership  rate declines. About 14
million U.S. single-family homes valued at an estimated $2.8
trillion are occupied by renters, according to a report last
month by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Colony American Homes Inc., a single-family rental unit of
Thomas Barrack Jr.’s  Colony Capital LLC , filed plans this week
to raise $260 million through an IPO as a real estate investment
trust. Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp., a single-family rental
company based in Minnetonka, Minnesota, was the first to go
public as a REIT in December, followed by Scottsdale, Arizona-based American Residential Properties Inc.  Silver Bay fell 0.4 percent to $18.17 at the close of  New
York  trading, and is below its Dec. 13 IPO price of $18.50.
American Residential Properties, which started trading at $21 on
May 9, was up 2.9 percent today to $20.06.  Waypoint Homes  American Homes 4 Rent, a rental housing company headed by
Public Storage founder B. Wayne Hughes, and Waypoint Homes
Realty Trust Inc., an Oakland, California-based operator with
more than 3,000 homes, also have announced IPO plans.  “We are excited about the housing-recovery investment
opportunity,” Leo Huang, chief executive officer of Ellington
Housing, said in an April 1 statement announcing that the
company had raised $140 million to buy rental properties through
a private REIT.  Huang, who joined Ellington from Starwood Property Trust
Inc. in January 2011, was co-head of commercial real estate
lending at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. from 2004 to 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  