-- EMC Increases Share Buyback Plan by $5 Billion
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-05-30T20:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/emc-increases-share-buyback-plan-by-5-billion.html
EMC Corp. (EMC) , the world’s biggest maker
of storage computers, expanded its share buyback plan by $5
billion and started a  quarterly dividend  to return cash to
investors as customers restrain spending.  The stock repurchase program was increased to $6 billion
over the three years ending in 2015, the Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based company said today in a statement. EMC also
initiated a  dividend  of 10 cents a share, for an indicated yield
of 1.6 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  EMC’s shares have lost more than 75 percent from a peak in
2000, and Chief Executive Officer Joseph Tucci is struggling to
revive growth as corporations and governments curb storage-computer purchases amid an uncertain economic outlook.  NetApp
Inc. (NTAP) , a competing data-storage provider, and  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , a
security-software maker, also initiated dividends this month.  “Tucci and his team look every day at the stock
languishing,”  Daniel Ives , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets,
said in an interview. “This is a huge opportunity for them to
buy the stock at attractive prices.”  The shares  rose  5.4 percent to $24.93 at the close in  New
York . The stock has dropped 1.5 percent this year, compared with
a 16 percent gain from the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  ‘Well Received’  Tucci’s move to return more cash to investors comes a month
after  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s biggest technology company,
boosted its quarterly dividend and alloted more cash to
buybacks, announcing plans to borrow funds for what it called
the largest share-repurchase program in corporate history.  In March,  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest seller of
semiconductors for mobile phones, boosted its dividend by 40
percent and set up a $5 billion stock-buyback plan.  For EMC, results at its  VMware Inc. (VMW)  subsidiary added
pressure to consider returning cash to investors. VMware last
month forecast second-quarter sales that fell short of analysts’
projections as U.S. companies and federal agencies curbed
technology investments.  “We have been strong proponents of a more shareholder
friendly capital allocation program and believe the new strategy
will be well-received,”  Brian Marshall , an analyst at analyst
at ISI Group, wrote in a research report today.  New Products  EMC is introducing new products, such as its ViPR software,
as corporate customers slow purchases of expensive data-storage
computers and look for ways to easily manage rapidly mounting
caches of information. Chief Financial Officer David Goulden
said in March that EMC will boost revenue by at least 8 percent
a year through 2016 as it increases market share.  The quarterly dividend will be paid on July 23 to
shareholders of record as of the close on July 1, EMC said
today. About $3.5 billion of common stock will be bought by the
end of the second quarter next year.  EMC also plans to add  debt  to its  capital structure  in the
near term, while continuing to maintain a “strong investment-grade profile” and a balance sheet that provides the financial
flexibility to pursue its strategic objectives, according to the
statement.  The company has a market value of about $49.7 billion, and
had cash and short term investments of $6.53 billion as of March
31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  