-- Emerging Stocks Head for Biggest Monthly Loss in a Year
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-30T21:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/emerging-stocks-head-for-biggest-monthly-loss-in-year-won-gains.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, dragging
the benchmark index toward its biggest monthly loss in a year.
Philippine equities tumbled the most in 20 months and South
Africa’s rand traded weaker than 10 per dollar for the first
time since March 2009.  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the Philippine’s largest food and drinks
company, slid 5.2 percent and  Ayala Land  Inc., the country’s
biggest developer, retreated 6.3 percent. New World Resources
Plc dropped to a record low in Prague, declining for a second
day after Moody’s Investors Service lowered its credit rating.
 Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) , Africa’s third-largest producer of the
metal, gained the most in more than four years in Johannesburg
as gold advanced.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.4 percent to
1,016.02, the lowest since April 23. The gauge has lost 2.3
percent this month amid concern the  Federal Reserve  will scale
back stimulus as the recovery strengthens. America’s economy
grew at an annualized 2.4 percent pace in the first quarter,
less than the 2.5 percent rate estimated earlier, the Commerce
Department said today.  “Sentiment towards emerging markets is generally poor
today,”  Michael Wang , an emerging-market strategist at Amiya
Capital LLP in London, said by e-mail. “The market is pricing
in perhaps an earlier start to tapering.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank could reduce the pace of bond purchases if there is a
sustained improvement in growth.  Valuation Concern  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, was unchanged
at $41.96. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets
ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund
and expectations of price swings, lost 1.4 percent to 21.47.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  dropped 3.8 percent,
the most since September 2011, on valuation concern. The Czech
PX index slipped 0.5 percent while South Africa’s benchmark
gauge rebounded from its biggest drop in a week, adding 1.7
percent. Markets in Brazil and Poland are closed for holidays.  The benchmark Philippine gauge is valued at 19.5 projected
12-month earnings, compared with 10.3 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The MSCI World Index, which has gained 0.8 percent this month,
is valued at 13.7 times, the data show.  New World Resources fell 3.6 percent in Prague, extending
7.5 percent retreat yesterday when Moody’s cut NWR’s  credit
rating  to B2 from B1 with a negative outlook, saying the coal
producer’s weaker operating performance is set to continue this
year.  OAO Russian Grids fell 3.4 percent in Moscow, extending
yesterday’s 5.2 percent decline, before the stock is removed
from the MSCI Russia Index from June 3.  Harmony Gold, Africa’s third-largest producer of the metal,
advanced 17 percent, the most since November 2008.  Gold Fields
Ltd. (GFI)  surged 10 percent. Gold rose to a two-week high.  Rand Slides  The rand depreciated 2.1 percent to 10.0442 per dollar.
South Africa’s currency has dropped 11 percent this month, the
most among than 25 emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg.  The country’s economy is hampered by tumbling commodity
prices and a wave of labor unrest in the mining industry,
President  Jacob Zuma  said today.  Hungary’s forint slipped 1.4 percent versus the euro,
trimming this month’s gain to 1.7 percent, the biggest advance
among major emerging markets.  A gauge of industrial companies in the MSCI Emerging-Markets Index dropped 1.1 percent, the most among 10 industry
groups. A measure of technology stocks gained 0.5 percent, the
only group to advance.  San Miguel  slumped to the lowest level since November 2010
before its removal from the MSCI Philippines Index. Ayala Land
tumbled the most since September 2011.  Cutting Forecast  Advantech Co. (2395) , a maker of personal computers in Taiwan,
slid 3.3 percent as market researcher IDC cut its forecast for
shipments of personal computers. PC shipments may decline 7.8
percent this year, the worst annual drop on record, IDC said,
revising its previous projection for a 1.3 percent decrease.  LS Corp. (006260)  tumbled 9.5 percent in Seoul, the largest decline
in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. The company’s subsidiary was
raided by prosecutors today following reports that it supplied
components whose safety certificates were faked, the Busan Ilbo
reported today, citing officials at the Supreme Prosecutors’
Office in Busan. Prosecutors probed its subsidiary JS Cable Co.
today and took documents and data from the company, LS spokesman
Jo In Mook said by phone today.  Smithfield Foods  Henan Shuanghui Investment & Development Co. (000895)  jumped 8.7
percent in Shenzhen after its parent company agreed to acquire
Smithfield Foods Inc. Closely-held parent Shuanghui
International Holdings Ltd. agreed to buy Smithfield Foods for
about $4.72 billion, the companies said in a statement
yesterday.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  sank 0.6 percent to a five-week low.
Vietnam’s VN Index rose 1.2 percent to the highest since
February 2011.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 297 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  