-- Energy Storage Needs U.K. Government Incentives, Highview Says
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-05-30T13:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/energy-storage-needs-u-k-government-incentives-highview-says.html
The U.K. government should give
incentives to promote methods of storing excess power from
renewables and releasing it when energy demand is high, said the
developer of such a technology, Highview Power Storage.  Failure to introduce incentives will deter investors and
cost Britain an industry that Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has  said may save  as much as 10 billion pounds ($15
billion) a year by 2050, Toby Peters, chief operating officer
and co-founder of Highview Power Storage, said in an interview
in  London .  Investors “can’t see revenue mechanisms today to justify
the investment and there aren’t clear market mechanisms or
government support,” Peters said. Without assistance from the
government, technology will have to be bought from abroad, he
said. “We could lose a massive industry to another country.”  Energy storage would help balance supply and demand as
Britain aims for 15 percent of its energy to come from
intermittent renewable sources by 2020 from about 9.4 percent
now. Liquid air storage, such as that being developed by
Highview, has the potential to open up an industry worth 1
billion pounds a year to the U.K., a report published May 9
showed.  Highview is developing a system that uses surplus energy to
turn air into liquid that can be stored. The liquid air can be
turned back into electricity for the grid by adding heat. As it
warms up, the air expands 700 times in volume with enough force
to drive a piston engine or turbine.  “You need to either give it its own structure and then
give it support mechanisms during the early stages such that the
City and investor community can make adequate returns, or you do
what the government does with new clean technology, which is to
give it a subsidy or kick-start,” Peters said.  Highview has been operating a pilot plant in Slough in
south-central  England  for two years that has been feeding
electricity into the grid. The next stage is to build a
demonstration plant of about 5 megawatts, Peters said. The
company plans to raise 1 million pounds to 1.5 million pounds
from private investors and family offices by year-end, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  