-- Merkel Found Wanting as German Business Bemoans Party Platform
-- B y   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-05-30T08:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/merkel-found-wanting-as-german-business-bemoans-party-platform.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s platform
for Sept. 22 elections fails to address the most pressing
economic policy areas facing Germany and risks sacrificing the
country’s prosperity, business lobby groups said.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party “badly lacks
ambition on  tax policy  in its platform proposals for the
election,” Lutz Goebel, president of a group that represents
German family entrepreneurs, said in a phone interview yesterday.
The party’s policies on minimum wages and getting more women in
senior management posts “avoid what’s necessary,” he said.  Kurt Lauk, president of the business wing of Merkel’s CDU,
said that Germany needs a simplified tax system and a reduction
in the surcharge levied on all earners that goes toward aiding
former eastern  Germany . Instead, business has to shoulder the
government’s enforced switch to renewable power and the threat
of statutory appointments of women to company boards, elements
more akin to a state-run “planned economy,” he said.  The disaffection of business lobbies with traditional ties
to Merkel’s party risks undermining her efforts to build
consensus for a platform that will win her a third term. During
a “town hall” event on May 28, Merkel said the CDU had
developed 45 areas that members were being asked to comment on
before she presents the full election platform on June 24.  Merkel said during the call-in that Germany has to be
“very careful” on approval for fracking to avoid taking
environmental risks and that voters are also “very concerned
that our society be a fair one, that the gap between those who
earn little and those who earn more doesn’t get bigger.”  ‘SPD-Lite’  The chancellor’s party’s approach to social policy means it
is moving on to ground more usually adopted by the main
opposition  Social Democrats , said Goebel, who has previously
criticized Merkel’s backing for euro-area bailouts. The CDU is
“attempting to be an ‘SPD-lite.’”  The Merkel government’s single focus now should be on how
to secure future prosperity and economic growth, rather than
getting distracted by “questionable” topics such as the
minimum wage and quotas for woman in top company posts, said
 Michael Huether , director of the IW Cologne economic institute.  “This government has no overall perspective on the
economy, but instead gets caught up in useless little debates,”
Huether said in a telephone interview. “Behind it lies the
chancellor’s strategy to cover all political bases. But in the
end no-one knows where she stands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  