-- Letter to Obama Tested for Ricin Contamination, Officials Say
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-05-30T16:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/letter-to-obama-tested-for-ricin-contamination-officials-say.html
 A letter to President  Barack Obama 
similar to a Ricin-laced communication sent to New York Mayor
Michael Bloomberg was intercepted and turned over to the FBI.  Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s
 Washington  field office responded to the White House mail
facility today after the suspicious letter was discovered,
Lindsay Godwin, an FBI spokeswoman said.  Edwin Donovan, a Secret Service spokesman, said that the
letter is similar to one sent to Bloomberg and a group promoting
gun control that the mayor co-chairs. The letter to Bloomberg
tested positive for the deadly chemical ricin, according to the
New York City Police Department.  The writer of a letter opened in New York on May 24
threatened the mayor and made references to “the debate on gun
laws,” NYPD spokesman Paul Browne said yesterday in a
statement.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of Bloomberg News.  A Secret Service official, who asked for anonymity to
discuss details, said the agency was aware of the letter sent to
Bloomberg and Mayors Against Illegal Guns in Washington and was
on heightened alert. The letter addressed to Obama was never
opened and was given to the FBI for testing.  The tainted letters were the latest in a series of such
mailings to public officials. A Mississippi man was arrested in
April on charges of mailing ricin-laced letters to Obama and a
U.S. senator. This month, a man was charged with threatening a
federal judge in Spokane, Washington, in a letter that contained
ricin, the FBI said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  