-- Letters to Air Force Base, Obama Seized in Ricin Probe
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-05-31T21:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/letters-to-air-force-base-obama-seized-in-ricin-probe.html
FBI agents investigating a Spokane,
Washington, man charged with sending a letter containing the
poison ricin to a federal judge said “similar letters” to
President  Barack Obama , the Central Intelligence Agency, a U.S.
Air Force Base and the U.S. Post Office were seized or detected.  The letters to Obama and the Spokane post office were
intercepted and found to contain active ricin toxin, the Federal
Bureau of Investigation said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
FBI scientists today confirmed they found ricin in the letter to
Fairchild Air Force Base near Spokane, while the letter to the
CIA hasn’t been found, the FBI said.  “Active monitoring of the mail stream continues in an
effort to locate this letter and mitigate any risk its contents
might pose,” the FBI said, adding that it’s unlikely a member
of the public would encounter it.  The FBI and the New York City Police Department are also
investigating anonymous letters threatening Mayor Michael Bloomberg that tested positive for ricin. That probe is also
examining similar correspondence to Obama and to  Mayors Against
Illegal Guns  in Washington. Bloomberg is co-chairman of the
coalition, which is a national bipartisan group of mayors,
according to its website.  Person of Interest  Federal agents are questioning someone in New Boston,
 Texas , who is described as a person of interest in the ricin
probe, said a person with knowledge of the matter who asked not
to be identified because the information wasn’t public.  Katy Chaumont, a spokeswoman for the FBI in  Dallas , said in
a phone interview that no arrests have been made in Texas.  “The ricin matter is an ongoing investigation and a number
of FBI offices are looking at this,” she said.  The letters sent to New York and  Washington  were postmarked
in Shreveport, Louisiana, on May 20, according to a statement
posted on the website of the American Postal Workers Union.  Matthew Ryan Buquet was charged May 22 with threatening
U.S. District Judge Frederick Van Sickle in Spokane, in a letter
sent with ricin. A total of five letters are now part of the
investigation, the FBI in Spokane said in yesterday’s statement.  Mississippi Arrest  This month’s incidents in Spokane, New York and Washington
follow the arrest of a Tupelo, Mississippi, man in April on
charges of mailing ricin-laced letters to Obama and U.S. Senator
Roger Wicker.  James Everett Dutschke was charged with producing a
biological agent for use as a weapon. Dutschke, a former martial
arts instructor, was arrested on April 27, four days after
federal prosecutors dropped charges against Paul Kevin Curtis,
an Elvis impersonator from Corinth,  Mississippi . A lawyer for
Curtis had told a federal judge during a court hearing that he
may have been framed by Dutschke because the men had a long-running feud.  Ricin is made from castor beans and has been used
experimentally in medicine to kill cancer cells, according to
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It’s
harmful and potentially fatal if inhaled or ingested, according
to the CDC.  The mayor of New York is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  Bloomberg said he didn’t feel threatened or angered by the
letters.  “In terms of why they’ve done it, I don’t know,”
Bloomberg told reporters. “The letter obviously referred to our
anti-gun efforts, but there’s 12,000 people that are going to
get killed this year with guns and 19,000 that are going to
commit suicide with guns, and we’re not going to walk away from
those efforts. And I know I speak for all of the close-to 1,000
mayors in the Mayors’ Coalition Against Guns. This is a scourge
on the country that we just have to make sure that we get under
control and eliminate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at  laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  