-- EU Energy Spend May Fall Short Without Carbon Fix, IHS Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-05-30T10:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/eu-energy-investment-may-fall-short-without-carbon-fix-ihs-says.html
Utilities may fail to build enough
power and natural gas infrastructure by 2020 unless there’s a
higher carbon price, according to IHS Inc.  The low cost of European Union carbon permits is
encouraging investment in coal-fired power generation and is
holding back building of natural gas, wind and solar capacity,
analysts led by  Michael Stoppard  in London said in a report e-mailed yesterday. European utilities need to deliver 990 billion
euros ($1.3 trillion) of energy investments by 2020, he said.  Lower carbon prices help power generators that use a
greater share of coal, since burning it leads to about twice the
volume of heat-trapping emissions as natural gas. Utilities such
as RWE AG in Essen,  Germany , and Warsaw-based PGE SA benefit
over those that derive energy mostly from wind, natural gas and
uranium, including Germany’s EON SE,  France ’s GDF Suez SA and
CEZ AS in Prague.  “What is clear is that the utility sector cannot be relied
upon to deliver the bulk of the necessary investments for
Europe’s energy future,” Stoppard said. “Other sources will be
needed, and this may place more focus on project finance,”
which is itself constrained by tighter limits being imposed on
bank balance sheets and greater scrutiny on off-balance sheet
lending, he said.  Lawmakers should consider extending carbon limits beyond
2020 to help tighten the market as they implement a proposed
delay in supply of 900 million metric tons of allowances through
2015, IHS said.  Overlapping Policies  They should contemplate removing policies that overlap with
the current cap-and-trade system, seek to reduce the costs of
renewable-energy subsidies for households and try to encourage
spending on research and development, according to Stoppard.  The bloc may need to use its European Investment Bank and
structural and cohesion funds to help sponsor investment because
utilities may struggle to raise the funds needed, he said.  The EU needs 750 billion euros for power generation
capacity by the end of the decade and 240 billion euros for
power and gas networks, IHS said in the report. About 25
gigawatts of coal and gas capacity will close by the end of this
year, the highest yearly level of retirement for the next eight
years. About 110 gigawatts is due for retirement by 2023, about
a quarter of so-called “conventional” coal, gas and nuclear
capacity, IHS said.  “Low-cost coal-fired power has filled a void,” Stoppard
said. “A system that supports at high cost the deployment of
zero-carbon technologies only to provide enhanced scope for
burning carbon-intensive forms of generation needs reform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  