-- Texas Blast Reveals the Holes in Chemical Oversight
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-30T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/texas-blast-reveals-hole-in-chemical-oversight.html
Six weeks after a fertilizer center
near West,  Texas , blew up, killing 15 people, it has become
clear that none of the half-dozen state and federal agencies
overseeing the place regulated the safe storage of the chemical
that exploded.  Investigators have concluded that a fire at West Fertilizer
Co. -- perhaps caused by arson, an electrical short or a spark
from a golf cart -- detonated large stores of ammonium nitrate,
a chemical compound used as both a fertilizer and a commercial
explosive. The blast devastated a 37-block area.  None of the regulatory agencies focuses on the specific
hazard of fire plus an explosive compound, existing in the midst
of schools, a nursing home and scores of residences. Given that
at least 2,400 businesses in the U.S. store ammonium nitrate,
the lack of regulation is a national issue.  Texas sets no standards for the fire-safe storage of
ammonium nitrate. The state Commission on Environmental Quality
policed the West Fertilizer Co. only in regard to air quality
and pollution. The Office of the Texas State Chemist inspected
the center yearly to ensure compliance with a  state requirement  
that the facility enclose and lock its ammonium nitrate stores
to keep them from being stolen by terrorists.  National Regulations  Federal oversight also missed the problem. The U.S.
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration  regulated 
only the transportation of chemicals in and out of the facility.
The Labor Department’s Occupational Safety and Health
Administration conceivably could have noticed any faulty wiring
at the business, but OSHA last inspected the place in 1985. With
just 2,000 inspectors for the nation’s 8 million workplaces, the
agency can’t police the chemical industry.  That is more the writ of the Environmental Protection
Agency, whose  mission includes  protecting people and the
environment from the risks of toxic chemicals. The EPA required
that West Fertilizer provide a risk-management plan for its
handling of another fertilizer, anhydrous ammonia, which is
toxic and stored under high pressure. Yet the EPA  doesn’t
mandate  risk-management plans for ammonium nitrate, despite the
evident dangers.  Originally, the agency required such plans for some
explosives, but in response to a lawsuit from the Institute of
Makers of Explosives, it  delisted the category altogether  in
1988, saying the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms had
them covered. The ATF, however, only regulates explosives more
powerful than ammonium nitrate.  Only tough local zoning laws might protect against building
high schools and nursing homes next to ammonium nitrate stores.
West didn’t have such restrictions, and the fertilizer
distributor stood outside city limits anyway.  In any case, local authorities may not be well equipped to
gauge the risks in chemical storage, and business-hungry state
officials may be inclined to discount them. That’s why it should
be a federal agency that regulates the storage of ammonium
nitrate.  The EPA is a good choice because it already possesses
considerable authority to manage risks such as those that led to
the catastrophe in West. For example, the agency requires that
state and local officials have emergency-response plans for
dealing with a list of chemicals. It can, and should, add
ammonium nitrate to that list. Under EPA rules, West Fertilizer
was required only to inform state and local officials, including
the fire department, that it had ammonium nitrate on site.  Risk Management  The EPA should also  require risk-management plans  of
ammonium nitrate distributors. Specifically, the agency should
insist that they maintain their electrical systems, keep fire
hazards away from the chemical compound, and separate bins to
prevent secondary explosions.  The EPA should demand that all new distributors of ammonium
nitrate have buffer zones separating their stockpiles from
inhabited areas. Congress should offer existing distributors tax
incentives to relocate their supplies. There’s a precedent for
this: The  agricultural chemicals security credit , which expired
on Jan. 1, offered sellers of agricultural chemicals a 30
percent federal income tax credit to offset the costs of
securing dangerous substances against theft by terrorists or
other criminals.  The last time a fertilizer facility containing ammonium
nitrate blew up -- in 2001, in Toulouse,  France , killing 30
people and damaging 30,000 buildings -- investigators never
determined the cause. Authorities may never know exactly what
occurred in West either. But they can act now to minimize
chances it will happen again.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 