-- Facebook Rises as Advertising Sales Growth Seen at BMO
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-05-30T20:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/facebook-rises-as-advertising-sales-growth-seen-at-bmo.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , operator of the
largest social network, climbed the most in four weeks after
analysts at BMO Capital Markets Corp. and Jefferies & Co.
upgraded the stock on optimism advertising sales will rise.  The shares increased 5.3 percent to $24.55 at the close in
New York.  Facebook  has  dropped  35 percent since an initial
public offering last May.  Facebook is working to boost ad revenue by rolling out new
products to get users to spend more time on its mobile service.
The  Menlo Park , California-based company introduced Home last
month, with software that integrates features more deeply into
some smartphones using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.
An upgrade to video-advertising may also bolster sales,
according to Daniel Salmon, an analyst at BMO.  “We checked in with around a dozen agencies and ad tech
industry contacts over the past week and sentiment around
Facebook advertising remains quite positive, with emphasis on
improved  customer service  in particular,” Salmon, who is based
in New York, wrote in a research report.  He upgraded the shares to outperform, the equivalent of a
buy, from market perform, and increased his target price to $33
from $32. Jefferies upgraded Facebook to buy from hold and
raised the target price to $32 from $31.  Facebook shares have slumped about 15 percent through
yesterday from May 1, when the company reported first-quarter
sales expanded 38 percent to $1.46 billion, a slowdown from the
40 percent growth  rate  in the fourth quarter.  Ad Products  “We think recent pressure on the stock has created a
buying opportunity,” Brian Pitz, an analyst at Jefferies in  New
York , said in his note.  New ad products should include video-advertising services
this year, he said. That could add as much as $4 million a day
by the end of 2013, making it the next billion-dollar business
for Facebook, Pitz said.  The company also is benefiting from other promotional
products including one service that lets app developers
advertise their software on mobile devices. Another new service
enables advertisers to reach users on Facebook based on their
browsing history.  The analysts also said concerns that younger users were
becoming less active on the service are probably overblown.
Mobile products such as photo-sharing service Instagram show
Facebook is catering to the demographic.  While more teens are turning to rival social networks,
Facebook usage is still growing among that segment, Chief
Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  said yesterday in an onstage
interview at the D: All Things Digital conference in  Rancho
Palos Verdes , California.  “Teenagers are using other things more,” Sandberg said.
“At the same time, they continue to be very active, engaged
Facebook users.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  