-- Faurecia Cost-Cutting Plan to Be Deployed by End of Next Month
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-05-30T10:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/faurecia-cost-cutting-plan-to-be-deployed-by-end-of-next-month.html
Faurecia (EO) , Europe’s largest maker of
car interiors, said its efforts to reduce costs on the continent
will be in place by the end of next month as the automobile
market in Europe heads for a sixth consecutive year of decline.  The French auto-parts maker, 57 percent owned by  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG) , is cutting expenditures by about 100 million
euros ($130 million), or about 6 percent of fixed costs in
Europe, Chief Executive Officer Yann Delabriere said today at a
shareholders meeting in Paris.  “This plan will be fully deployed at the end of first half
2013,” Delabriere said. “It includes an industrial restructuring 
plan in western Europe, in  Germany ,  Spain ,  Portugal  and France.”  Delabriere, who confirmed a full-year forecast for a
decline of 4 percent to 5 percent in the European car market,
said the first benefits of the cost-cutting plan will be
realized in the second half. Full effects will be evident in
2014, he said.  Faurecia plans to eliminate about 3,000 jobs in its home
region, or 7.5 percent of the workforce, by the end of this
year. Like its struggling majority owner and other carmakers in
Europe, the Nanterre-based company is seeking to trim capacity
and expand elsewhere.  The company’s  management  will become more international to
reflect burgeoning global operations, Delabriere also said
today. Faurecia will “significantly change” the management
board by the end of the year as it focuses on industrial growth
in Asia and boosting profitability in  North America , the CEO
said.  Share Performance  Faurecia rose as much as 3.9 percent and was up 3.1 percent
at 16.85 euros as of 12:09 p.m. in Paris. The stock has gained
44 percent this year.  The parts manufacturer’s first-quarter sales rose 1.7
percent to 4.37 billion euros from a year earlier, it said April
23. The company reiterated a full-year forecast for “neutral”
 cash flow  excluding restructuring expenses of 120 million euros
to 140 million euros.  Peugeot has sold assets to shore up its balance sheet as
cash reserves dwindle, prompting uncertainty about its continued
ownership of Faurecia. Peugeot said yesterday that it isn’t
planning to sell new shares, after a report by French online
newspaper La Tribune.  The carmaker is discussing an eventual share sale, La
Tribune said, citing an unidentified person close to the matter.
The controlling Peugeot family has discussed what percentage of
dilution would be acceptable for them, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  