-- Foreigners Buying Most Indian Stocks Since February on Stimulus
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-05-30T11:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/foreigners-buying-most-indian-stocks-since-february-on-stimulus.html
Overseas funds  are poised to buy the
most Indian shares in three months after central banks from
Europe to  Australia  cut  interest rates  this month to revive
economic growth, boosting demand for emerging-market assets.  Foreigners have bought $3.6 billion more of local stocks
than they sold this month through May 29, the highest  since 
February when they purchased a net $4.1 billion, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The purchases have taken total flows into
stocks this year to $14.9 billion, a record for the period and
the second-largest among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Global central banks are trying to bolster their economies,
with the U.S. Federal Reserve buying $85 billion of bonds a
month and the  Bank of Japan  unveiling unprecedented stimulus in
April. The monetary easing has boosted flows to  emerging
markets , including India. The nation’s benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX) 
has climbed 3.7 percent in May, bound for its best monthly gain
since November.  “Expectations that global central banks would continue
with their loose monetary stance have kept the market buoyant
this month,” Andrew Holland, chief executive officer at Ambit
Investment Advisors Pvt. in Mumbai, said in a phone interview.
“Expectations are running high and India will be at risk if
this liquidity-driven trade tapers off.”  The Sensex has  rebounded  11 percent from a seven-month low
on April 9. The gauge on May 15 closed at its highest level in
more than two years as  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said the latest data showing inflation eased to a  41-month low  will be factored into policy discussions in June.  The RBI on May 3 lowered the  repurchase rate  for a third
time this year, extending the only reduction in borrowing costs
this year in the BRIC group of the largest emerging economies.
The bank’s next policy meeting is on June 17.  Foreigners have been net sellers of Indian stocks in just
two of the past 13 years, based on data compiled by Bloomberg
going back to 2000. Inflows climbed to a record  $29.3 billion  in
2010, making the Sensex the best performer among the world’s 10
biggest markets that year. The largest-ever outflow in 2008,
during the global financial crisis, triggered the biggest  annual
slump  in the gauge of 52 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 