-- Forint Slumping Most Since March as Yields Jump: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-30T15:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/forint-slumping-most-since-march-as-yields-jump-budapest-mover.html
The forint capped the biggest two-day
slide in more than two months on concern  Hungary  will use a
planned release from European Union budget monitoring for fiscal
loosening amid a slump in demand for riskier assets.  Hungary’s currency weakened 1.3 percent to 293.52 per euro
by 4:30 p.m. in Budapest, extending the drop in the past two
days to 2.4 percent, the worst such depreciation since March 12.
The forint has gained 2 percent in May, still the best
performance among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The European Commission yesterday recommended releasing
Hungary from the excessive deficit procedure for the first time
since 2004. The move, which needs the approval of EU finance
ministers at a meeting next month, will help avert the threat of
cuts in development aid and would also widen the government’s
policy room, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said in an Inforadio
interview to be aired later today, a recording of which was
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Orban, who took office in 2010,
faces elections next year.  “Orban’s comments on the widening room for maneuver aren’t
helpful,” Karoly Bamli, a Budapest-based trader at Commerzbank
AG, said by e-mail. “The market is a bit worried about a pre-election budget.”  The ruling Fidesz party has kept its lead in opinion polls
partly by imposing a 10 percent cut in utility prices from
January and pledging further reductions in household expenses
ranging from chimney sweeping to waste disposal. The cabinet is
not preparing an election budget for 2014, Andras Giro-Szasz, a
government spokesman, said on state-run M1 television today.  Forint Resilience  The forint’s relative-strength index rose to 75 on May 28,
above the 70 level signaling an excessive rally.  “This has been more of a ’catch up’ trade given the
forint’s resilience earlier this month,” Siddharth Kapoor, a
London-based strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote by e-mail.
“We expect euro-forint to continue trading higher in the near
term at least.”  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced its benchmark rate by 25
basis points to 4.5 percent on May 28 in a 10th consecutive
month of easing, saying further cuts are possible if favorable
sentiment in financial markets is sustained.  Hungary’s 10-year bond yields rose 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 5.58 percent, compared with a record low
4.93 percent on May 16. The Debt Management Agency sold 53
billion forint ($235 million) in bonds maturing in 2016, 2018
and 2023 at an auction today, with yields rising across all
maturities.  Emerging-market stocks fell, dragging the benchmark index
to its biggest monthly loss in a year. U.S. Treasuries have
tumbled this month after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said last week the central bank could reduce the pace
of its asset purchases if officials see signs of sustained
improvement in growth.  “It is easy to get drawn back into the excessive deficit
procedure,” Robert Csajbok, a Budapest-based trader at ING
Groep NV, wrote by e-mail today. “There is no precedent on how
the forint may behave in a negative market environment with such
low  interest rates .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  