-- Fountainhead Falls as Takeover Bid Withdrawn: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-05-30T15:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/fountainhead-falls-as-takeover-bid-withdrawn-johannesburg-mover.html
Fountainhead Property Trust (FPT) , a South
African real estate company, declined the most in more than six
months after larger rival  Growthpoint Properties Ltd. (GRT)  abandoned
a takeover attempt.  The shares  fell  as much as 7.5 percent, the most since
November 19, and were down 6.1 percent to 8.39 rand at the close
of trading in Johannesburg, giving the company a market value of
9.8 billion rand.  Growthpoint, the country’s biggest property company by
market value, said today it is withdrawing an all-share offer to
acquire Fountainhead first tabled in October.  Redefine
Properties Ltd. (RDF) , the country’s second-largest real estate
company, subsequently built a 46 percent stake in Fountainhead,
effectively blocking the Growthpoint bid.  “The decline is related to Growthpoint withdrawing its
offer,” Leon Allison, property equity analyst at Macquarie
First South Securities, said in a phone interview from
Johannesburg. “Some Fountainhead shareholders might be
disappointed the deal didn’t go through.”  Investors in Fountainhead “have been denied the
opportunity to consider and vote on the Growthpoint Offer, which
would have entailed a premium of 1.13 billion rand ($110
million) at the May 28 closing price,” Growthpoint said in the
statement.  “They had nowhere to go with the bid,” Redefine’s Chief
Executive Officer Marc Wainer said in a phone interview today.
“They should have withdrawn the bid weeks ago.”  Growthpoint  shares  traded 4.1 percent lower at 25.75 rand,
while the 19-member FTSE/JSE Africa Real Estate Investment
Services Sector Index fell 4 percent.  Growthpoint’s withdrawal brings “more certainty”
regarding the companies involved in the three-way battle,
Macquarie’s Allison said. “That’s good from an investor’s point
of view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  