-- Four IRS Employees to Be Interviewed in Congress Probe
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-05-31T14:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/four-irs-employees-to-be-interviewed-in-congress-probe.html
Congressional investigators plan to
interview four Internal Revenue Service employees as part of a
probe into the agency’s scrutiny of small-government groups,
according to a spokesman for Representative  Darrell Issa .  The IRS is making four more employees available for
transcribed interviews to the House Ways and Means and Oversight
and Government Reform panels. The employees work in the
Cincinnati office that handles applications for tax-exempt
status, said Ali Ahmad, a spokesman for Issa, a California
Republican who’s chairman of the House Oversight panel.  The committee has already questioned Holly Paz, one of five
interviews it sought in the inquiry. The other four employees
are John Shafer, Gary Muthert, Liz Hofacre and Joseph Herr.  The tax agency’s disclosure this month that it singled out
groups with “ Tea Party ” or “patriot” in their names for
extra scrutiny before deciding whether to grant tax-exempt
status is one of three controversies besetting President  Barack Obama . Also spurring criticism and inquiries are the
administration’s response to last year’s attacks on a U.S.
outpost in  Libya  and the  Justice Department ’s seizure of
telephone records of Associated Press journalists during a probe
into leaked national-security information.  Ahmad said in an e-mail yesterday that Issa’s panel will
seek to interview more IRS workers. Lawmakers, investigators and
IRS officials haven’t identified who began selecting groups for
extra attention in 2010 when they sought tax-exempt status.  Three Officials  Four congressional committees and the U.S. Justice
Department are probing the IRS’s treatment of the groups’
applications. Already, three IRS officials have left their jobs
as a result of the controversy.  Steven Miller , the former acting commissioner, was forced
out of that position. Joseph Grant, who oversaw tax-exempt
groups and government entities, announced his retirement eight
days after being promoted.  Lois Lerner, who managed the office that handled
applications from tax-exempt groups, was placed on paid
administrative leave May 23. A day earlier, she gave Issa’s
panel a short statement denying wrongdoing and then refused to
testify, invoking her constitutional right against self-incrimination.  She disclosed the IRS’s actions on May 10 and apologized,
four days before an inspector general’s report was released.  Graves Letter  The House Ways and Means panel is set to hold a hearing
June 4 where representatives from some of the groups will
testify.  Representative Sam Graves, chairman of the House Small
Business Committee, sent a letter to the IRS today asking about
the agency’s practices for deciding which small businesses to
audit and how much money those audits recover.  Graves, a Missouri Republican, didn’t accuse the IRS of
auditing small businesses for political reasons. Still,  he
wrote , “These investigations have only raised more questions as
to the extent these practices may have extended beyond
conservative groups.”  So far, intense questioning by lawmakers on three
committees directed at the IRS hasn’t revealed who decided to
single out the groups applying for tax-exempt status based on
their names. It hasn’t explained why the agency kept using what
an inspector general called “inappropriate” criteria even
after IRS officials tried to stop it in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  