-- France to Pare Holding in Paris Airport Operator ADP
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-05-30T15:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/france-to-pare-holding-in-paris-airport-operator.html
The French government plans to reduce
its holding in  Aeroports de Paris , the operator of the airport
in the French capital, as it refocuses its investments.  Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  has asked the government
organization managing state holdings to prepare the disposal of
10 million share, according to a statement today. The French
state owns 54.5 percent of the capital, while the state’s
strategic investment fund owns another 5.6 percent. The
government said it will retain a majority in the company.  “This operation is part of the government’s policy of
actively managing its shareholding, allowing it to preserve the
state’s patrimonial and strategic interests while at the same
time freeing up resources for new promising sectors of the
economy,” Moscovici said in the statement.  Aeroports de Paris (ADP)  has 99 million shares outstanding, of
which less than a third is freely traded. The stock has gained
18 percent so far this year, valuing the entire company at about
6.83 billion euros ($8.86 billion). ADP  first sold shares  to the
public in June 2006 at 44 euros each. Its shares rose 0.25
percent to 69.18 euros at the close in Paris.  The government last month disposed of a 707 million-euro
stake in European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., the parent of
Airbus SAS, as President  Francois Hollande ’s government embarks
on a policy of selective asset sales.  French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said in a
television interview May 5 that the government had “no taboo”
about selectively reducing stakes in state-controlled companies,
while saying it would keep control of companies it considered
strategic.  ADP manages the Charles de Gaulle airport in Paris,
Europe’s second-largest behind Heathrow. The airport attracted
61.6 million passengers last year. The  Finance Ministry  didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails asking which banks would handle
the ADP sale.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is advising  France ’s strategic investment
fund, the Fonds Strategique d’Investissement, while  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  is advising the French state on the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  