-- Gensler’s Personal E-Mail Use at CFTC Faces Republican Scrutiny
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-05-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/gensler-s-personal-e-mail-use-at-cftc-faces-republican-scrutiny.html
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  is drawing congressional
scrutiny over his use of personal e-mail for work including
communication during the collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)   Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who
leads the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, is
asking Gensler to provide all e-mail from non-official accounts
relating to his job overseeing derivatives markets, according to
a letter obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The committee is seeking e-mails since Jan. 1, 2009, to
“better understand whether your use of personal e-mail to
conduct official business was mere imprudence, or part of a
larger scheme to defeat federal transparency laws,” Issa wrote
to Gensler in the letter dated yesterday. “There is little
discernible explanation for your use of personal e-mail to
conduct official business.”  E-mail use by Gensler was highlighted in a CFTC inspector
general report into the collapse of MF Global, the brokerage
that filed for bankruptcy in October 2011 and initially reported
a client-fund shortfall of $1.6 billion. The report, released
May 21, cited more than 7,000 instances of personal e-mails
related to MF Global including duplicates and message chains.  “The CFTC OIG made no formal conclusions regarding whether
Chairman Gensler’s email use violated CFTC policy,” Judy
Ringle, attorney-adviser in the CFTC inspector general’s office,
said yesterday.  Steve Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, declined to comment on
Issa’s letter.  Official Business  During the weekend before MF Global collapsed, Gensler
exclusively used his personal e-mail account to communicate
about the company then run by Jon S. Corzine, who was chairman
of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. when Gensler worked for the firm.
Gensler had used personal e-mail consistently since he arrived
at the agency in 2009 to set meetings and have discussions about
official business.  CFTC policy instructs employees not to e-mail or forward
sensitive documents to personal e-mail addresses or devices,
according to the report.  “In reviewing hundreds of e-mail messages using the
chairman’s personal e-mail address, we found nothing that
appeared corrupt, and he has since ceased this practice,” CFTC
Inspector General A. Roy Lavik said in the report.  The use of personal e-mail “may implicate an attempt to
insulate your correspondence from Freedom of Information Act
requests” and may violate federal record retention laws, Issa
wrote to Gensler, who worked in the Treasury Department under
President  Bill Clinton  and served as an adviser to Democratic
lawmakers before being named to lead the CFTC by President
 Barack Obama .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  