-- German Stocks Rise as Euro-Area Confidence Increases
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-05-30T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/german-stocks-are-little-changed-linde-declines.html
German stocks  advanced, with the
benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index heading for its biggest monthly gain since
February 2012, as a report showing euro-area economic confidence
increased in May outweighed worse-than-forecast U.S data.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  added 3.3 percent as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said semiconductor stocks will benefit from a
decline in inventories. Allianz SE rose 2.8 percent as Nomura
Holdings Inc. recommended the shares.  Linde AG (LIN)  slipped after
Citigroup Inc. cut its rating on the industrial-gases company.  The DAX climbed 0.8 percent to 8,400.2 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt . The index is heading for a 6.2 percent
gain in May and has risen in all but one of the last 12 months
as central banks around the world maintained their stimulus
efforts. The broader HDAX Index added 0.7 percent today.  “We are in a  bull market  for equities and this will
continue,” Geoffroy Goenen, who helps oversee $1.3 billion at
Dexia Asset Management in Brussels, said in a phone interview.
“In both the U.S. and Europe you have very low levels of
volatility and while we might see some volatility going up for
short periods, we don’t expect that to be a structural move.”  The German VDAX Volatility Index, which measures the cost
of buying protection on the DAX, on May 23 rose the most in
seven weeks after Federal Reserve President  Ben S. Bernanke  said
the central bank may taper the amount of purchases it is buying
to stimulate economic expansion should growth rebound. The risk
gauge in January fell to a record low of 12.29.  Some businesses in  Germany  closed today for the Corpus
Christi holiday.  Economic Confidence  Economic confidence  in the euro area increased in May,
adding to signs the region is beginning to emerge from the
longest recession in the single-currency era.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment rose to 89.4
from 88.6 in April, the European Commission in Brussels said
today. That’s in line with the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 33 economists.  The  U.S. economy  expanded less than previously estimated in
the first quarter. Gross domestic product rose at a 2.4 percent
annualized rate, the Commerce Department said today in
 Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for
no revision from the 2.5 percent pace initially reported.  Fewer Americans than forecast signed contracts in April to
buy previously owned homes, according to a separate report. The
 index  of pending home sales rose 0.3 percent after a 1.5 percent
gain in March, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed today in Washington. Economists forecast April contract
signings would match the prior month’s increase.  Infineon Gains  Infineon,  Europe ’s second-biggest chipmaker, advanced 3.3
percent to 6.61 euros. A decline in semiconductor inventories
will lead to increased orders as long as the economic situation
doesn’t significantly worsen, according to JPMorgan. The bank
named Infineon as a “key pick” in the industry because of its
exposure to the inventory correction.  Allianz, Europe’s largest insurer, rose 2.8 percent to
121.80 euros. Michael Klien, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
raised his recommendation on the shares to buy from neutral,
citing the company’s profit outlook.  “We see positive earnings momentum for the next couple of
years, driven by all business segments,” Klien wrote in a
report. “We believe Allianz will increase its dividends
steadily in the coming years.”  Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Europe’s second-biggest airline,
climbed 4.4 percent to 16.84 euros. Global passenger traffic
rose 3.2 percent in April from a year earlier, the  International
Air Transport Association  said.  Linde dropped 0.4 percent to 149.05 euros, paring earlier
losses of as much as 1.5 percent. Citigroup cut its
recommendation to neutral from buy after the stock jumped 15
percent this year. The bank’s analysts wrote that the shares may
still rise to 160 euros apiece.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net 
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  