-- Google Plans $599 Version of HTC One in Hardware Push
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-05-30T19:43:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/google-plans-version-of-htc-one-phone-for-599.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , maker of the world’s
most popular smartphone software, plans its own version of  HTC
Corp. (2498) ’s HTC One handset, according to Sundar Pichai, senior vice
president of Android, Chrome and Apps.  The device will run Google’s Android operating system and
cost $599 without a wireless contract, Pichai said today in an
onstage interview at the D: All Things Digital conference in
 Rancho Palos Verdes ,  California . The retail price is less than
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5 and the Galaxy S4 from Samsung Electronics
Co. -- two of the most popular sellers.  Google’s latest handset comes two years after the company
agreed to buy Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion in a bid to
take on the iPhone and gain more clout for Android in the
wireless business. Android now runs on  75 percent  of
smartphones, and  Mountain View , California-based Google is
stepping up its focus on hardware with handsets, laptops and
wearable devices, including computer-enabled eyewear.  “These are the beginning steps of us thinking hard about
how we get the right user experience,” said Pichai, who led
efforts to debut laptops using Google’s Chrome software before
assuming responsibility for Android earlier this year.  While his promotion fueled speculation that Chrome and
Android might merge into a single business, Pichai today
downplayed the potential for a reorganization along those lines.  “We have two platforms which are doing well,” he said.
“Our plan isn’t to change course now.”  Premium Pricing  Apple sells a version of the iPhone 5 without a contract
for $649 on its  website.  The Galaxy S4 is available for $640
from  AT&T Inc.  and $650 from  Verizon Wireless , though it is
discounted with a two-year contract.  Some consumers who don’t like the features handset makers
include on Android-based phones may be willing to pay a premium
for a device designed with more input from Google, according to
 Charles Golvin , an analyst at  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)   “There are certainly customers who want the pure Google
experience, who don’t care for the many user-interface and
additional features that the manufacturer ladens onto the top of
the base Android experience,” Golvin said in an interview.  Google introduced the Nexus One touch-screen handset in
2010. At the time, Google said the phone would cost $529 without
a contract.  Like other versions of the HTC One, Google’s update will
run Android. It won’t have some features that HTC previously
included on the phone.  As Google adds handsets, the company is being careful to
avoid upsetting relationships with handset makers that build
Android devices, according to  Avi Greengart , research director
at Current Analysis.  “The plan seems to be to offer stock Android versions of
the most popular smartphones,” Greengart said. “They appear to
be genuinely interested in operating their own phone business --
Motorola -- as a separate entity and not conflict with their
partners.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  