-- Google Backs First Africa Clean Power and May Invest in More
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n   a n d   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-05-30T20:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/google-backs-first-africa-renewable-power-and-may-invest-in-more.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which has  invested  more
than $1 billion in renewable-energy projects, is considering
spending more on clean power in  Africa  after backing its first
solar project on the continent.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , put $12 million
in the $260 million Jasper solar project in  South Africa  that
will have 96 megawatts of generating capacity, the company said
in an e-mailed statement today. A group led by SolarReserve LLC,
a closely held U.S. developer, is building the plant near
Postmasburg in the Northern Cape province.  “We are always on the lookout to find investments that
will have the same characteristics as South Africa, which is
strong, growing demand, or supply that is unable to meet that
demand,” Google’s Director for Energy and Sustainability Rick Needham said on a conference call. In “parts of eastern Africa,
geothermal is one of the natural resources there, so we are
looking at those kinds of opportunities.”  South Africa, where utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.
struggles to meet rising power demand with coal-fed plants, is
expanding capacity through a 100 billion-rand ($10 billion)
program to add 3,725 megawatts from renewable sources by 2016.
The nation’s investment in clean energy grew more in 2012 than
any other country, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. In
many sub-Saharan African nations, power demand exceeds capacity,
holding back growth.  Eskom will purchase solar power from the Jasper project for
20 years beginning in late 2014, SolarReserve Chief Executive
Officer  Kevin Smith  said yesterday by telephone.  Jasper Financing  SolarReserve in November received $586 million for two
other South Africa projects it’s building to help meet the
country’s goal.  The Jasper deal consists of about $195 million in debt and
$65 million in equity investments, including Google’s $12
million, SolarReserve spokeswoman Andi Plocek said today by e-mail. FirstRand Bank Ltd. led the debt funding and provided
preference share equity, according to the statement.  SolarReserve, based in Santa Monica, California, and
project partners Kensani Capital Investments and Intikon Energy
provided the additional equity along with state-owned
 Development Bank  of Southern Africa Ltd., non-profit
organization P.E.A.C.E. Foundation and Public Investment Corp.,
which manages South African state workers’ pension fund, the
continent’s biggest. Smith wouldn’t provide individual
investment terms.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co.,  China ’s largest solar
panel manufacturer by shipments, will supply the equipment for
the project.  Other Investments  Google’s investment in Jasper is the second overseas in
renewables for the world’s biggest search engine company, which
in 2011 paid $5 million to buy a 49 percent stake in a German
solar project.  Google also has invested in a transmission project intended
to link the first U.S. offshore wind farms as well as land-based
wind power and  BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) ’s first solar-thermal
project, which is  scheduled  to be completed this year in
Southern California. Additionally, the company is urging
utilities to offer large customers more options for buying
renewable energy.  Kensani Eaglestone Capital Advisory was financial adviser
for the project, and Baker & McKenzie LLP was the legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  