-- Li Refuses to Blame Rain for Paris Loss to Mattek-Sands
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-05-30T18:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/li-refuses-to-blame-rain-for-paris-loss-to-mattek-sands.html
Former French Open champion Li Na
refused to blame the Paris weather for her earliest defeat at
the tournament that made her a household name two years ago.  Unseeded American Bethanie Mattek-Sands beat the sixth-seeded player from China 5-7, 6-3, 6-2 on Court 1 at Roland
Garros.  Li, a set up, was 3-4 down in the next when the second of
three rain delays came. After that, she lost seven games in a
row as Mattek-Sands went into a decisive lead with her attacking
play.  “It’s very tough to come back to the court three times,”
said Li, who has become a global star since her 2011 Roland
Garros victory and was named on Time Magazine’s 100 Most
Influential People list earlier this year. “But it’s the same
for both players.”  Li, 31, said she had been “a little bit surprised” by how
well Mattek-Sands played.  “It’s one of the best wins of my career,” 28-year-old
Mattek-Sands told reporters.  The American is as well known for her outfits as for her
tennis. She wore a dress made of tennis balls to the women’s
tour’s pre-Wimbledon party last year that made the U.K. tabloid
newspapers.  Mattek-Sands said her racket “has been doing a lot of the
talking,” in Paris. Playing in long black socks against Li, she
struck 32 winners, 12 more than her opponent, on the wet clay.  “I wanted to play aggressive,” said Mattek-Sands. “I had
a plan, I knew what to do on every point.”  Overcame Injuries  Last year, struggling with hip, back and foot injuries,
Mattek-Sands had almost wanted to quit. She overcame the
injuries, and found out during the offseason in December that
she had 26 different food allergies, including to gluten and
dairy products. Having slumped to No. 205 earlier this season, a
new diet gave Mattek-Sands a boost.  “I’m recovering better,” said Mattek-Sands, who has
climbed back up inside the top 70 on the WTA tour rankings,
allowing direct entry into the Grand Slam events. “I think one
of the issues I had in the offseason, I had a lot of
inflammation in my blood markers and stuff, and that’s gone down
because of the diet change. I feel like a different person since
I have done that.”  After a tough season in the majors in 2012 -- never
advancing past the round of 16 -- Li had made a strong start to
the year, reaching the Australian Open finals in January.  She has been working with Carlos Rodriguez, the former
coach of former French Open champion Justine Henin of  Belgium ,
since the second half of last year.  Li said she’ll now focus on Wimbledon, which starts in
three weeks, and is considering entering a warm-up event before
that.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  