-- Iceland Targets Burden Sharing as State Mortgage Bank Struggles
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-05-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/iceland-targets-burden-sharing-as-state-mortgage-bank-struggles.html
Iceland’s government will seek
participation from bondholders in a bailout of the struggling
Housing Finance Fund, the country’s largest mortgage provider.  “It’s not only a task for the authorities to resolve the
problems of the Housing Finance Fund, but rather a problem that
needs to be dealt with by all parties,” Welfare Minister Eyglo
Hardardottir said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s
important that everybody realizes that we have a problem on our
hands that won’t go away -- that needs to be resolved. The only
way to do that is through good cooperation.”  HFF, which provides mortgages linked to inflation, is
losing business to commercial competitors such as Arion Banki hf
and Islandsbanki hf that can offer regular loans. As inflation
hovers above 3 percent, borrowers have turned away from HFF and
sought alternative home loans to prevent their debt burden from
growing with  consumer prices .  The bank’s capital ratio was 3.2 percent of its risk-weighted assets at the end of last year, compared with a 5
percent regulatory minimum, the fund said in March. HFF had $4
billion outstanding in bonds at the end of April.  Iceland, which let its biggest banks default on $85 billion
in 2008, said in February that it would bail out the fund before
it becomes unable to honor its debts. That promise followed a
November pledge to inject 13 billion kronur ($105 million) to
keep the state-backed lender afloat.  Repayment Risk  The Financial Supervisory Authority said on May 28 that it
was concerned about the growing risk of HFF’s declining capital-adequacy ratio. It was “important to resolve” the difficulties
as the fund has “significant repayment risk, especially under
the current interest-rate regime.”  “It’s clear that the fund has a state guarantee so the
role of the government is absolutely clear in that respect,”
Hardardottir said. “It’s important that these, just like other
projects of the government, are collaboration projects.''   The new government of Hardardottir’s Progressive Party and
the Independence Party, which ousted a Social Democrat-led
coalition last month, wants a “radical” changes to the
island’s housing market. The government wants to write down
household debt by as much as 20 percent and reduce the reliance
on inflation-linked mortgages.  “It’s absolutely clear that the majority of inflation-linked loans have been provided by the Housing Finance Fund,”
Hardardottir said. “Therefore we can expect that the Housing
Finance Fund plays a significant role in how the environment
will be into the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  