-- Microsoft Updates Windows Software After Complaints
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-05-30T16:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/microsoft-restores-start-button-adds-search-to-windows.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  is restoring some old
Windows features and rolling out new ones in a bid to reignite
interest in its flagship operating system, after customers
complained about the software’s usability.  Windows 8 debuted in October for tablets and personal
computers with a tile-based layout for selecting programs,
replacing a desktop design that let users start programs from a
button. An update later this year will restore the start button,
while adding search capabilities and other features, said Jensen
Harris, director of program management for Windows.  Microsoft, which redesigned its main product to appeal to
users switching to mobile, touch-based computing, has failed to
jump-start growth in the ailing PC market with Windows 8. While
tweaking designs and adding features will help, Microsoft needs
more applications running on Windows and a greater variety of
low-cost machines to stem the defection of consumers to tablets.  “I’m not sure this helps them restore demand by itself,”
said Wes Miller, an analyst at Kirkland, Washington-based
Directions on Microsoft. “Bringing people back to Windows is a
question of apps and a device-cost question -- right now you
have to pay a premium price in general.”  The update will let users set their machines to run the
previous desktop design as a default, rather than the new tiled
layout, Harris said. Windows 8.1 will also offer greater
flexibility to tweak the start screen’s tiles, he said.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , said it will
release a test version of the Windows update on June 26. The
company will ship the final product later this year as a free
update for Windows 8 customers, the company said.  Interim Upgrade  Users who are unfamiliar with the new design of Windows 8
had complained about the removal of the start button and menu,
and that Windows 8 machines only booted up to the new tiled
design.  In the update, the start button is visible when users touch
or move a mouse at the screen’s bottom-left corner. Previously,
Microsoft had a small image in that corner which also brought up
the start screen. The latest changes to Windows represent a move
forward rather than a retrenchment, said Antoine Leblond, vice
president of Windows program management.  “This is anything but a U-turn,” Leblond said in an
interview. “There’s no question that our view is this modern
world is the future, and we want more apps developed on this
part of the platform.”  New Features  While Windows 8 allowed users to run two programs side by
side, the update will add the ability to adjust how much of the
screen is given to each one. For larger displays, the software
will let users open as many as four applications at once.  The new software, code-named Blue, adds new search features
that return a wider variety of types of results. A search for
 Marilyn Monroe  lists her page in Windows 8’s Wikipedia app,
songs in various music apps, movie clips in other apps, as well
as web results.  The lock screen for Windows 8.1 will feature a slide show
of photos, and users will be able to answer Skype Web-based
calls without unlocking the machine. The automatically updating
tiles come in new sizes, from a small one to fit more apps on
the screen to a very large format that can show several recent
e-mails or appointments.  PC Slump  The changes are being introduced as Microsoft faces a
second straight year of shrinking PC shipments, according to
IDC. While tablet shipments are projected to climb 59 percent
this year and outpace PCs in 2015, sales of Surface, the
Microsoft’s tablet computer featuring Windows 8, are off to a
slow start, falling short of predictions, people familiar with
the matter said in March.  One issue, particularly for tablet customers, has been the
lack of applications for Windows 8, compared with more than
350,000 apps for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad. Windows now has about 79,000
apps, according to  MetroStore Scanner , a website that tracks how
many apps are in the Windows store. Microsoft has added a new
health and fitness program, as well as a recipe one that can be
controlled with gestures to enable users who are cooking to keep
dirty fingers off the screen.  While the Windows 8 update is a concession by Microsoft
that the new operating system may have turned off some
customers, the software maker isn’t backing away from its new
design, Miller said.  “That’s not giving in -- that’s just changing it to be
more usable,” Miller of Directions on Microsoft said. “People
need to realize Microsoft isn’t just going back to the way
Windows 7 was.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  