-- Tiger Brands Profit Rises as Bakeries, Rice Volume Recovered
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-05-30T06:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/tiger-brands-profit-rises-as-bakeries-rice-volume-recovered.html
Tiger Brands Ltd. (TBS) , South  Africa ’s
biggest food maker by market value, said the company regained
volume in bakeries, rice and snacks and treats and maintained
profit margins across many of its domestic businesses.  Net income for the six months through March increased 2.6
percent to 1.32 billion rand ($135 million), compared with 1.28
billion rand a year earlier, the Johannesburg-based company said
in a statement today. Sales advanced 21 percent to 14 billion
rand.  “The on-going economic pressures, resultant constraints on
 consumer spending  and increased competitive intensity in the
domestic market provide an appropriate context for these
results,” the company said.  Tiger Brands, South Africa’s biggest processor of grains
and the maker of Albany bread, is expanding in Africa to reduce
exposure to its domestic market, which grew by 0.9 percent in
the first quarter, less than the most pessimistic forecast of 15
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The company bought Dangote
Flour Mills in  Nigeria  for about $200 million last year as
acquisition opportunities dwindled at home.  “In the short term, volatility in soft commodity prices
and foreign currency movements is likely to persist,
exacerbating a tough trading environment,” it said.  Tiger Brands shares have declined 11 percent this year,
compared with a 25 percent gain for  Pioneer Foods Ltd. (PFG) , the
second-largest food company by market capitalization. The stock
fell 2.9 percent to 289.25 rand by the close yesterday in
Johannesburg, valuing the company at 55.4 billion rand.  The company said interim dividends for the six months rose
5.1 percent to 3.10 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  