-- Indonesia Goes Green to the Dismay of Palm Oil Producers
-- B y   B r u c e   E i n h o r n ,   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-05-30T21:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/indonesia-goes-green-to-the-dismay-of-palm-oil-producers.html
     May 30 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- To environmentalists,
 Indonesia  is the home of developers who clear virgin rain
forests, destroy the habitat of orangutans, and contribute to
global  climate change . But on May 13, Indonesia extended a policy
of keeping virgin rain forest off-limits to the  palm oil 
industry, a main driver of deforestation.  The first moratorium, imposed in 2011, had some enforcement
problems. This time the government seems to be taking a new
approach to green issues, and activists such as Glenn Hurowitz
are unlikely fans. “There are now people at the highest levels of
government who really believe the country can develop and protect
its natural resources at the same time,” says Hurowitz, managing
director of consultant Climate Advisers and senior fellow at the
Center for International Policy, a think tank. The change, he
says, is “quite extraordinary.”  Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  renewed the
moratorium in part because of multinationals that don’t want to
be linked to deforestation in Indonesia, the top producer of palm
oil, which is used in cooking around the world. Companies such as
Nestlé, Unilever, and Cargill have pledged to stop using palm oil
from trees planted on land that had been virgin rain forest. By
2015, even Girl Scout Cookies will use only palm oil certified as
sustainable. The moratorium, says Indonesian Palm Oil Board
Chairman Derom Bangun, “is good for improving our image.”  In Indonesia, government departments often disagree about
what constitutes virgin forest and what areas stay open for
developers. “They each have their own definitions, each have
their maps, which don’t specifically correlate to each other,”
says Satya Tripathi, director of the UN’s Office for REDD+
Coordination in Indonesia, an agency focused on deforestation,
conservation, and sustainable forest management. The government
is creating a single map of forest areas to eliminate conflicting
accounts.  Indonesian industry isn’t happy with the government’s ban.
“We will lose the momentum,” says Joko Supriyono, secretary
general of the Indonesian Palm Oil Association. Already,
plantation owners such as  Malaysia ’s Sime Darby are looking to
less regulated countries in sub-Saharan  Africa .  Some environmentalists aren’t totally satisfied either.
According to Yuyun Indradi of Greenpeace Indonesia, banning new
plantations on primary rain forest isn’t enough, because planters
can still clear secondary-growth forest. A more comprehensive ban
“is what’s really needed,” he says.