-- Investec Asset Management Dumps Inflation Bonds on Commodities
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-05-30T08:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/investec-asset-management-dumps-inflation-bonds-on-commodities.html
Investec Asset Management sold all
its short-maturity index-linked bonds as tumbling raw materials
prices reduced the need for protection against inflation.  “An impact of falling commodity prices is washing through
the inflation market,” Russell Silberston, a London-based money
manager, said in a phone interview on May 28. The company has
$105 billion under management, according to its website.
“Commodities are not doing well because of concern about global
growth, especially in  China .”  Inflation-protected bonds handed investors a 3 percent loss
this month, the worst performance since October 2008, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Inflation-Linked
Government Index. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw
materials dropped 8.7 percent from its high this year reached in
February as slowing growth in China crimped demand for raw
materials. Gold fell 16 percent this year.  The two-year U.S. break-even rate, a market gauge of
 inflation expectations  derived from the yield gap between
regular and index-linked bonds, dropped to 1.31 percentage
points at 9:43 a.m. London time, reaching the least since Dec.
20, and falling from as high as 2.41 percentage points in March.
The five-year  break-even rate  in the U.K. fell to 2.92
percentage points, from 3.31 percentage points last month, the
highest since July 2008.  The International Monetary fund cut its forecast for 2013
global economic growth to 3.3 percent from 3.5 percent on April
16. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang told German business leaders on
May 27 that his country is confronted by “huge challenges.”  Investec Asset Management sold index-linked securities with
maturities of up to five years “a while back,” Silberston
said. It retained longer-dated bonds, and it would buy back
shorter-maturity notes if they fall further because “central
banks won’t let inflation expectations fall too far,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  