-- Lions Gate Soars to Profit on ‘Twilight’ Home Video Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-05-31T15:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/lions-gate-soars-to-profit-on-twilight-home-video-sales.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , maker
of the “Twilight” teen vampire movies, rose the most in six
months after posting fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates, helped by home-video sales from the series.  The  shares  gained 6.8 percent to $29.94 at 11:10 a.m. in
 New York  after climbing as much as 7.2 percent, the most
intraday since Nov. 9. They had surged 71 percent this year
through yesterday, as the Russell 2000 Index rose 17 percent.  The profit will help  Lions Gate  meet or exceed its May 2012
forecast of $900 million in adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization over the following three
years, Chief Executive Officer  Jon Feltheimer  said on a
conference call today. He cited the performance of films such as
“The Hunger Games” and “Divergent,” the first in a new
series of movies based on young-adult novels.  “If they continue to create these franchises, there are
still upsides on the stock,” said Matt Harrigan, a Denver-based
analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc., who recommends buying
shares of the company, run from  Santa Monica ,  California .  The studio has staked out the young-adult market. The first
“Hunger Games” sequel is scheduled for release in November.
“Divergent,” based on a book trilogy by Veronica Roth, is set
for a March 2014 release. “Divergent” is set in a dystopian
world in which teens are forced into specific social groups.  “Owning the top young-adult franchises, ‘The Hunger Games’
and ‘Twilight,’ gives us enormous catalysts” to build new
franchises, Feltheimer said on the call.  Lions Gate also plans to expand relationships with Web-based television services such as those of Netflix Inc., Hulu
LLC and Amazon.com Inc., he said. The studio’s TV comedy
“Orange Is The New Black” starts on Netflix in July.  Quarterly Profit  The studio yesterday reported net income of $163 million,
or $1.10 a share, compared with a loss of $22.7 million, or 17
cents, a year earlier. Revenue rose 22 percent to $785.7 million
in the period ended March 31, beating estimates of $746.5
million. Analysts had forecast profit of 43 cents, the average
of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The January 2012  acquisition  of  Summit Entertainment 
brought the “Twilight” films to Vancouver-based Lions Gate.
The deal also gave the studio potential franchises that also
include “Ender’s Game,” set for November release.  Quarterly results also were helped by revenue from
television, which include the “Mad Men” and “Anger
Management” series, Harrigan said in an interview.  Profit also was bolstered by international box-office sales
for “The Impossible,” a film about the 2004 Indian Ocean
tsunami, and the home-video release of low-cost horror films,
including “Sinister” and “The Possession,” Harrigan said.  “The Impossible,” with only $19 million in sales in the
U.S. and  Canada , took in $153.5 million in international
markets, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  