-- Iran Increases its Support for Terrorism, U.S. Says
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-05-30T23:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/iran-increases-its-support-for-terrorism-u-s-says.html
Iran  increased its support of
international terrorist-related activities last year, as the
capabilities of al-Qaeda’s central leadership in Pakistan
declined, the U.S. State Department said.  In its annual  report  on terrorism issued yesterday, the
State Department reported a “marked resurgence” in terrorist-related activities last year by Iran, which also is supplying
weapons and other “extensive” aid to the Syrian regime for its
war against rebel groups.  The State Department cited activities by Iran’s Ministry of
Intelligence and Security, its Islamic Revolutionary Guard
Corps-Quds Force, and its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah.  “Iran’s state sponsorship of terrorism and Hezbollah’s
terrorist activity have reached a tempo unseen since the 1990s,
with attacks plotted in Southeast Asia,  Europe , and  Africa ,”
according to the State Department.  The Bulgarian government implicated Hezbollah in the July
2012 Burgas bombing that killed five Israelis and one Bulgarian
citizen, the State Department report said. The Quds Force is
suspected of directing planned terrorist attacks in Georgia,
India, Thailand, and Kenya in 2012, as well as a 2011 plot
against the Saudi ambassador to the U.S., according to the
report.  An Iranian-American used-car salesman, Manssor Arbabsiar,
was sentenced yesterday in  New York  City to 25 years in prison
for plotting in 2011 with a member of Iran’s Quds Force to kill
the Saudi ambassador with a bomb at a Washington restaurant. The
Iranian government has denied any ties to the plot, which wasn’t
carried out after an informant tipped off federal authorities.  Al-Qaeda Affiliates  The State Department said that the deaths or arrests of
dozens of mid- and senior-level al-Qaeda operatives –- including
 Osama bin Laden  by U.S. Navy SEALs in May 2011 -– have disrupted
communications, financial activities, facilitation nodes, and a
“number of terrorist plots.”  As al-Qaeda’s remaining leaders “focus increasingly on
their own survival,” the group’s offshoots in  Yemen ,  Iraq ,
North Africa and Somalia are acting with greater independence
and setting their own goals, according to the report.  While the al-Qaeda affiliates “still seek to attack the
‘far enemy,’ they seem more inclined to focus on smaller scale
attacks closer to their home base,” according to the report.  ‘Far Enemy’  Still, the State Department cautioned that al-Qaeda’s core
leadership retains “the ability to inspire, plot, and launch
regional and transnational attacks from its safe haven in
western  Pakistan .”  The State Department said al-Qaeda’s two most dangerous
affiliates lost ground in 2012: The government of Yemen regained
areas that had been under the control of al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula, and Somali national forces and the African Union
mission in Somalia expelled al-Shabaab from major cities in
southern Somalia.  Tumultuous events in the  Middle East  and North Africa
“have complicated the counterterrorism picture,” according to
the State Department. “The dispersal of weapons stocks in the
wake of the revolution in  Libya , the Tuareg rebellion, and the
coup d’état in Mali presented terrorists with new
opportunities.”  In Libya, the security vacuum in the aftermath of the 2011
revolution that toppled dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  has provided a
space for terrorists to operate. “This vacuum, combined with
the weakness of Libya’s nascent security institutions, allowed
violent extremists to act, as we saw too clearly on September 11
in Benghazi, when J. Christopher Stevens, the U.S. Ambassador to
Libya, and three staff members, died during attacks on U.S.
facilities,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  