-- Iran Candidate Jalili Says Women’s Rights Are as Mothers
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-05-30T07:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/iran-candidate-jalili-says-women-s-rights-are-as-mothers.html
Iranian presidential candidate Saeed
Jalili said his nation must defend the rights of women as
mothers and resist the approach of Western nations where they
are counted as an “economic tool.”  “Women’s core identity lies in motherhood and her role
should be defined within that framework, not in an economic
context,” Jalili, who’s also Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator,
told a female audience at a political rally late yesterday.  Jalili, one of eight candidates cleared by Iran’s top
officials for the June 14 presidential election, is considered a
possible front-runner. President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who’s
completing his second four-year term, isn’t eligible to run.  Western nations are proponents of individuality while in
Islam the focus is on the family, Jalili said, according to the
state-run  Fars  news agency.  “The West says society should work to its full potential,
and since women constitute half of the population, their work
power cannot be ignored and should be included in the economic
cycle,” Jalili said.  “Making use of women as an object and lowering her
greatness to the level of a workforce and economic tool is very
different from how they are viewed in Islam,” Jalili said. “We
are backers of  women’s rights , especially in comparison to the
West.”  Sole Breadwinner  About 52 percent of Iranian university students who
graduated in 2009 were women, according to data published by the
 UN Education Scientific and Cultural Organization . Sixty-eight
percent of science graduates were women, Paris-based UNESCO
said.  In 2011, women in  Iran  accounted for 27 percent of the
workforce, the  Tehran Times  reported. While women are culturally
not seen as responsible for contributing to a family’s income,
in many cases men are in effect no longer the sole breadwinner.  Ahmadinejad also argued that a woman’s most important job
is “at home” and that mothers have an “elevated role in
society.” In 2008, he proposed a plan for married women’s
working days to be cut by two hours, and by an additional hour
with the birth of each child, with no change to salary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  