-- Iraqi Plan to Boost Oil Production Sets Up OPEC Quota Tussle
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-05-30T15:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/iraqi-plans-to-boost-oil-production-sets-up-opec-quota-tussle.html
Iraq  is due to start pumping crude
from two of its largest  oil fields  within weeks, creating a
possible obstacle to future efforts by OPEC to curb supplies in
the event of a drop in prices.  The Gulf state plans to start production at Majnoon within
days, followed by Gharraf in July and West Qurna-2 by year-end,
lifting capacity by 400,000 barrels a day, Oil Minister Abdul
Kareem al-Luaibi told reporters in Vienna today before an
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries meeting tomorrow.
The nation, OPEC’s biggest producer after  Saudi Arabia ,
currently pumps 3.125 million barrels a day, he said, without
specifying output capacity.  While OPEC nations have achieved the best adherence to the
organization’s production ceiling in 18 months, the 12-member
group may need to increase discipline to stem price declines,
according to the Centre for Global Energy Studies.  Brent crude ,
used to price more than half the world’s oil, has lost 8.7
percent this year to trade at about $101 a barrel today.  “Saudi is likely to find any OPEC member’s, and not just
Iraq’s, ability to produce more oil detrimental to its fiscal
breakevens,” Abhishek Deshpande, an analyst at Natixis SA in
 London , said in an e-mail. “There are continuous attacks,
unrest in Iraq and differences at government level within the
country, so it’s not really a thorn as of now to OPEC, but soon
could be.”  ‘Teething Problems’  Output from Majnoon, the country’s third-biggest, will
start “around mid-year” and increase to 175,000 barrels a day
by the end of 2013, Mounir Bouaziz,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s
regional vice president, said May 16. Shell had “teething
problems” mainly due to the unexpected quantities of unexploded
munitions at the field, customs-related delays of imported
equipment and hitches in processing entry visas, Bouaziz said.  All but one of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg survey predict
OPEC will maintain its target of 30 million barrels a day at its
meeting tomorrow.  Curbs by Saudi Arabia pared OPEC output to 30.6 million
barrels a day in January, the closest to the group’s formal
limit since its introduction in December 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Production has since rebounded, reaching 30.9
million last month, about 900,000 a day more than both OPEC’s
own target and the amount the  International Energy Agency 
estimates will be needed in the second half.  Iraq, which holds the world’s fifth-largest oil reserves,
overtook  Iran  last year to become OPEC’s second-biggest
producer. The organization no longer publishes output quotas for
individual members.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  