-- Iron Ore Seen at $100 by Morgan Stanley Offers Chance to Buy
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-05-30T11:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/iron-ore-seen-near-100-by-morgan-stanley-offers-chance-to-buy.html
Iron ore  may extend losses before
rebounding, offering investors an opportunity to buy the
steelmaking raw material to profit from a recovery driven by low
inventories in China, according to Morgan Stanley.  The commodity, which reached a seven-month low of $111.60 a
dry ton today after entering a  bear market  this month, may
decline toward $100, Melbourne-based analyst Joel Crane said in
an e-mailed note. The seaborne market will be very tight for the
rest of 2013 and into next year, Crane said.  Ore is heading for a fourth month of losses as industrial
production in China missed forecasts and gauges of manufacturing
and service industries declined. The  International Monetary Fund 
this week cut its forecast for  China ’s growth, while Chinese
leaders signaled a tolerance for slower expansion. Iron ore
plunged 24 percent last August, reaching a three-year low in
September, as economic growth slowed in the largest importer.  “We do not think that we are headed toward as deep of an
overshoot as we saw last August,” Crane wrote. “Regardless of
the eventual floor that is found, once the dust is settled, we
would view this as an excellent buying opportunity because mills
will undoubtedly need to restock.”  Iron ore  with 62 percent content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin dropped 1.2 percent today to the lowest level
since Oct. 8, according to figures from The Steel Index Ltd.
Morgan Stanley’s base-case forecasts show prices averaging $130
a ton this quarter and $133 over the full year.  Port Stockpiles  Iron-ore  stockpiles  at Chinese ports dropped to 66.26
million metric tons on March 8, the lowest since March 2009,
according to data from Beijing Antaike Information Development
Co. Inventories were 69.46 million tons as of May 24.  Mills are selling ore they bought at second-quarter
contractual prices of about $140 a ton, signaling they think
spot prices will drop lower, allowing restocking more cheaply,
Crane wrote, citing unidentified trade reports. With  steel
output  at a record, such sales won’t be sustained, he wrote.  China’s domestic iron-ore production remains below trend
and there is a risk output will not have its usual midyear
surge,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  said in a report today. Inventories
may end this year at a much lower level than usual, it said.  Iron ore is measured in dry tons, or metric tons less
moisture. At Tianjin, moisture can account for 8 percent to 10
percent of the weight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  