-- Glitnir in Talks With Offshore Investors on Islandsbanki Sale
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-08-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/islandsbanki-quarterly-profit-drops-18-on-foreign-exchange-loss.html
The winding-up board of Iceland’s
failed Glitnir Bank hf said it’s in talks to sell a controlling
stake in Islandsbanki hf to help settle creditor claims from the
2008 bankruptcy.  The board “confirms that it is in preliminary discussions
with international investors in relation to Glitnir’s
controlling stake in Islandsbanki,” according to a statement
yesterday. The board “and its advisors have had discussions
with potential buyers on a broad basis, including in the Nordic
region, the Americas and  Asia .”  Glitnir, along with Kaupthing Bank hf and Landsbanki
Islands hf, defaulted on $85 billion in 2008 after being shut
out of funding markets. The collapse plunged Iceland into its
worst recession in six decades and drove the krona down as much
as 80 percent against the euro in offshore trading, forcing the
island to seek a bailout and to impose currency controls that
are still in place.  Icelandic newspaper Morgunbladid reported earlier that
Islandsbanki may be sold for 115 billion kronur ($972 million),
without citing where it obtained the information. Glitnir said
in May that its assets shrank by 36.3 billion kronur to 899.2
billion kronur as of March 31. Its liabilities fell by 12.1
billion kronur in the period to 2.4 trillion kronur.  Islandsbanki, which is owned 95 percent by the winding-up
board, was created by the Icelandic state from the domestic
assets of Glitnir. The bank reported an 18 percent decline in
first-quarter profit as the krona gained in strength. Net income
fell to 4.6 billion kronur, after the bank had a net foreign
exchange loss of 1.56 billion kronur.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  