-- Italian Bad Loans Seen Rising to Mid-2014, ABI’s Sabatini Says
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2013-05-30T22:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/italian-bad-loans-seen-rising-to-mid-2014-abi-s-sabatini-says.html
Bad loans at  Italian banks  may keep
rising for the next year as the nation’s economy sputters, the
director general of  Italy ’s banking association said.  “Impaired loans, including non-performing and doubtful
loans, will probably increase until mid-2014 because of the
ongoing recession,” Giovanni Sabatini, director general of the
ABI, said in an interview in  Rome  yesterday. “Italian banks are
commercial banks, so they are strongly correlated to the
economic cycle.”  Italian companies and households are struggling to repay
debts, forcing banks to set aside more money for soured loans.
Corporate and household bad loans rose to a record 131 billion
euros ($171 billion) in March, according to ABI data. Gross non-performing loans as a proportion of total lending increased to
6.6 percent from 5.4 percent a year earlier.  While bad loans are a concern for lenders, they aren’t a
systemic problem, said Sabatini, who ruled out the need for a
bad bank to take soured loans off lenders’ books. He also
excluded any request for assistance from Italian banks to the
European Union.  “There isn’t a systemic issue related to asset quality,”
said Sabatini, 53. “Each bank is dealing according to its own
policy, and I think that for the time being the data exposed in
banks’ balance sheets give a clear and transparent
representation of the situation of the asset quality.”  The Rome-based ABI is a trade association representing
Italy’s 699 banks.  Cost Cutting  The Italian banks’ main issue is profitability, according
to the ABI. Banks need to improve productivity and further cut
costs to boost profit as Italy’s longest  recession  in two
decades depresses  interest rates  and squeezes margins.  “Over the last 15 years, Italian banks were dramatically
committed to cutting costs,” Sabatini said. “There is still a
gap between the costs of lenders in the country and the European
average, so I see all types of costs, labor costs, and operating
costs will be cut in the future.” Operating costs should be
reduced by 25 percent to come in line with the European average,
Sabatini said.  According to plans released in the past two years, banks
were seeking to trim more than 11,000 positions by 2015. Lenders
employ more than 314,500 workers in the country across 33,000
branches,  Bank of Italy  data show.  Sound Capital  The nation’s banks, including the two largest --  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  -- are cutting costs, reorganizing
branch networks and selling assets to strengthen their balance
sheets and boost equity. UniCredit’s operating costs in the
first quarter declined 1.8 percent from a year earlier, while
Intesa’s costs were down 5 percent. Both banks are based in
Milan.  “Italian banks are sound and I don’t see a capital
shortfall for lenders in the country,” Sabatini said. “They
already meet Basel III capital requirements.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which
represents central banks and regulators in 27 nations and sets
capital standards worldwide, will force lenders to have common
equity equal to at least 7 percent of assets, weighted according
to their risk, by 2019.  Under current rules, known as Basel 2.5, Italian banks have
a core tier 1 capital ratio -- a measure of the ability to
absorb losses -- of about 10 percent, in line with the European
average, ABI data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  