-- Italy’s Borrowing Costs Increase at Auction of 10-Year Debt
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-05-30T11:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/italy-s-borrowing-costs-increase-at-auction-of-10-year-debt.html
Italy ’s 10-year borrowing costs rose
today after falling to a 2 1/2-year low at the previous auction
when the appointment of Prime Minister Enrico Letta ended a two-month political standoff.  The Rome-based Treasury sold 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion)
of bonds maturing in May 2023 at 4.14 percent, up from 3.94
percent at an April 29 auction. Investors bid for 1.38 times the
amount offered, down from 1.42 last month. The Treasury also
sold 2.75 billion euros of debt maturing in 2018 at 3.01
percent, up from 2.84 percent. The total amount of the auction
was at the top of the announced range.  “The relative cheapness of both lines” of debt “might
have supported demand,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst
at Newedge Group in  London , wrote in a note after the sale. Even
so, appetite for Italian debt may be limited amid “risks of
further volatility,” she said.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield dropped after the sale, and was
down 6 basis points to 4.1 percent at 1:07 p.m. in Rome.  The European Commission yesterday recommended lifting the
excessive deficit procedure imposed on Italy in 2009. The
decision may allow the country to free as much as 12 billion
euros in regional investment spending co-financed by the
European Union, Regional Affairs Minister Graziano Delrio said
in an interview with La Stampa newspaper published May 27.  Honoring Commitments  Letta, who reiterated yesterday that Italy will honor the
fiscal commitments to Brussels, is under pressure to revamp
growth and find the funds needed for the tax cuts demanded by
his political ally  Silvio Berlusconi , while keeping public
finances in order. Earlier this month, Letta’s Cabinet agreed to
suspend the payment of an unpopular residential property tax due
in June and is looking at ways to avoid a scheduled increase in
the  sales tax  in July.  EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said
yesterday that following its decision on taxation, “Italy has a
very small safety margin to keep the  budget deficit  below 3
percent.”  Italy’s budget deficit fell to 3 percent of gross domestic
product last year from 3.8 percent a year earlier, and the
government forecasts a shortfall of 2.9 percent of GDP this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  