-- Jakarta Office Rents Surge as DHL, Toyota Invest: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-05-31T09:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/jakarta-office-rents-surge-as-dhl-toyota-invest-southeast-asia.html
Office rents in Jakarta are surging
at rates faster than the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, as
demand from companies in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy
outpaces the supply of new buildings.  Rents for the highest-quality offices in the Indonesian
capital  jumped  36 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, driving a 30 percent increase in rents across all
buildings, according to broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. They will
climb as much as 25 percent in the next two years, groups
including the broker and developer  PT Jakarta Land  forecast.  Indonesia ’s economy grew more than 6 percent for 10
straight quarters, helped by record-low  interest rates  and
foreign investment. Companies including DHL, the freight company
of Deutsche Post AG, and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest
carmaker, have boosted operations in the country, while General
Motors Co., Volkswagen AG and Apple Inc. are seeking entrance to
tap the wealth of the country’s growing middle class.  “There was little development between the Asian financial
crisis and 2009, due to a weak economy depressing demand,”
Haslam Preeston, general manager of PT Jakarta Land, said in an
e-mailed response to queries on May 29. “But as economic
conditions improved, demand from companies, particularly large
multinationals, for  office space  grew, rents increased,
occupancy fell and interest in new office developments has seen
a commensurate surge.”  PT Jakarta Land last year completed the 60,000 square-meter
(645,835 square-foot)  World Trade Center II  in the city center.  Asia’s Highest  The  Jakarta Construction, Property, and Real Estate Index 
that tracks 53 stocks jumped 3.4 percent to a record 565.295 at
the close of trading. The index completed the biggest jump since
June 6, 2012.  The increase in rents in Jakarta was almost three times the
13 percent gain in Bangkok, the city with the second-highest
rate of growth, according to Chicago-based Jones Lang LaSalle.
Almost half of the 27 major Asia-Pacific cities recorded
declines or no change.  Office occupancy in Jakarta was at 97 percent in the first
quarter, little changed from the previous three months, figures
from broker Colliers International show.  Demand will continue to grow as more foreign companies
establish businesses in the country as it emerges as one of the
top destinations for foreign investment, KPMG LLP said in an
April 16  report .  GDP Growth  Foreign investment climbed 27.2 percent to 65.5 trillion
rupiah ($6.6 billion) in the three months ended March 31 from a
year earlier, Indonesia’s Investment Coordinating Board said on
April 22.  Indonesia’s gross domestic product increased 6.02 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, the  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said this month. The economy will expand 6.2 percent
this year, the  World Bank  forecast on April 15.  Developers have responded to the surging demand from
tenants, adding about 547,020 square meters of new office space
in Jakarta in 2012, the most since 1990, according to Colliers.
The city will add 311,908 square meters of space this year in 18
buildings in the central business district, the broker said.  The biggest  office tower  to be completed this year will be
the 64,000 square-meter DBS Tower, being developed by  PT Ciputra
Property (CTRP)  as part of its Ciputra World 1 project, Colliers said.  Rising Inflation  “Although there has been a number of new buildings
completed over the past 12 months, these were mostly pre-committed to large occupiers, such as banks and natural
resources companies,” said Preeston at Jakarta Land, a joint
venture between Singapore-traded developer  Hongkong Land
Holdings Ltd. (HKL)  and closely-held PT Central Cipta Murdaya. “We
expect rents to increase by 25 percent per annum for the next
two years.”  The most active tenants were in the technology, oil and gas,
insurance and trading industries, while leasing inquiries for
space of as much as 500 square meters are most popular,
according to a Cushman & Wakefield report.  Still, rising inflation may hinder office market growth
amid an increase in supply, said Hasan Pamudji, Jakarta-based
senior research manager at property broker Knight Frank LLP.  Bank Indonesia  kept the  reference rate  at a record-low of
5.75 percent this month, the 15th consecutive meeting without a
change. The government this month lowered its GDP target for
2013 to about 6.2 percent to 6.3 percent from 6.8 percent
previously.  New Supply  “If inflation rises, or if the economy slows, it will
affect business confidence and tenants may hold expansion
plans,” Pamudji said yesterday by telephone. “The maximum
supply has been between 300,000 and 400,000 square meters
annually historically, so compared to that, there is some
oversupply, and that’s the worry.”  From 2014 to 2016, the amount of new supply will be as much
as 60 percent higher than in 2012, data from Colliers show.  Indonesia’s economic outlook prompted  Fitch Ratings  to
raise its sovereign debt rating to investment grade in December
2011. Moody’s Investors Service followed five weeks later.  PT Lippo Karawaci (LPKR) , Indonesia’s largest publicly-traded real
estate developer by assets, PT Alam Sutera Realty, half-owned by
billionaire The Ning King, and Surabaya-based PT Pakuwon Jati
will benefit from rental growth of as much as 16 percent this
year, analysts led by Singapore-based Jacintha Poh at Moody’s,
wrote in a May 21 report. That growth will be driven by
occupancies of as high as 98 percent this year, Moody’s said.  “The office segment will see high occupancies and rising
rental rates, with demand fueled by new corporate set-ups and
expansions, while new supply is expected to be relatively
limited,” Poh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  