-- Japan Orders Tepco to Build Underground Wall at Fukushima Plant
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-05-30T10:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/japan-orders-tepco-to-build-underground-wall-at-fukushima-plant.html
The Japanese government ordered  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co. to build an underground wall at the crippled
Fukushima nuclear plant to prevent groundwater from flowing into
basements of reactor buildings.  The government plans to set up a task force with Tokyo
Electric, construction companies and plant makers by the end of
June to discuss the details, Minister of Economy, Trade and
Industry Toshimitsu Motegi said today in Tokyo. He made the
remarks at a meeting with Naomi Hirose, the utility’s president,
which was open to reporters.  Tepco has struggled with handling of contaminated water at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant after a quake and tsunami
in March 2011 caused three meltdowns and radiation leaks. The
plant site, 220 kilometers (137 miles) northeast of Tokyo, is
running out of space to store radioactive water due to inflowing
groundwater, raising concerns the operator will dump it into the
ocean.  “Given the seriousness of the contaminated water and
public anxiety about the issue, it is essential to have multiple
measures,” Motegi said in the meeting. “That’s one of the
biggest lessons from the Fukushima disaster.”  Tepco should expand its storage capacity for contaminated
water to 800,000 cubic meters by March 2017 and add more tanks
if necessary, as recommended in a report by the government’s
advisory panel today, Motegi told Hirose.  The government has set up the panel to discuss measures to
reduce groundwater seeping into the reactor buildings after the
utility found radioactive water leaks in April. About 400 cubic
meters a day of groundwater is flowing into the buildings,
according to Tepco’s estimate.  Tepco plans to pump out groundwater through wells before it
flows into the basements of the reactor buildings to reduce the
inflow to 300 cubic meters a day, the government panel said in a
statement today. The groundwater will be discharged into the
ocean after confirming it’s safe, the trade and industry
ministry said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  