-- Japanese Investors File Criminal Complaint Against U.S.’s MRI
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-05-30T03:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/japanese-investors-file-criminal-complaint-against-u-s-s-mri.html
Japanese clients of MRI International
Inc., the U.S. investment company suspected of mismanaging
assets, filed a complaint to Tokyo prosecutors and police
alleging fraud.  The complaint against Edwin Fujinaga, president of Las
Vegas-based MRI, was filed with the Tokyo District Public
Prosecutor’s Office and Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department
today, a group of 60 lawyers led by Hiroshi Yamaguchi said in a
statement distributed at a news briefing.  Japanese regulators last month stripped MRI of its
registration to operate in the country after finding that it
failed to properly manage assets and falsified business reports.
As much as 130 billion yen ($1.3 billion) of clients’ funds may
be missing, the Nikkei newspaper reported last month.  The lawyers representing 1,472 Japanese clients of MRI also
asked Tokyo investigators to examine whether the U.S. asset
manager and Fujinaga violated  Japan ’s financial products laws,
Yamaguchi said. Some 523 of the clients had invested at least
14.8 billion yen in MRI’s products, according to the statement.  A phone call made to MRI in Las Vegas outside of office
hours reached an answering machine. A call to MRI’s Tokyo office
reached a recorded message that referred inquiries to an
external call center which was unable to comment on the case.  The probe comes a year after Japan’s Financial Services
Agency investigated asset managers amid allegations of fraud at
Tokyo-based AIJ Investment Advisors Co., which was found to have
lost more than 100 billion yen of clients’ money.  The Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission, the
investigative arm of the FSA, said on April 26 that it has yet
to identify MRI’s asset balance and the amount of money that the
company may have lost, adding that the firm’s inaccurate reports
made it difficult to track the  money flow . The U.S. firm failed
to separate assets collected from clients from funds used to pay
investment returns, the regulator said.  MRI has sold investment products that are related to the
rights to collect medical service fees, its website shows. The
products offered an annual return of as high as 8.5 percent,
according to its old Japanese website, which is no longer
accessible.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  