-- Japan Halts Some U.S. Wheat Imports on Gene-Altered Crops
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-05-30T07:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/japan-halts-some-u-s-wheat-imports-on-gene-altered-crops.html
Japan , Asia’s second-largest wheat
buyer, suspended some imports of the grain from the U.S. after
the discovery in an Oregon field of gene-altered crops developed
by  Monsanto Co. (MON)  that never won approval for consumption.  Japan halted imports of western-white wheat and feed wheat
from the U.S., and canceled a plan to buy 24,926 metric tons of
western-white wheat in an import tender today, said Hiromi
Iwahama, director for grain trade and operation at the Ministry
of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. The action is aimed at
preventing unapproved crops from entering the food chain, he
said today in a telephone interview.  Scientists said the rogue wheat was a strain tested from
1998 to 2005 by Monsanto, the world’s largest seedmaker, which
withdrew its application for approval amid concern buyers would
avoid crops from the U.S., the world’s biggest wheat exporter.  “We have suspended imports of wheat produced in  Oregon  and
surrounding areas, as we cannot rule out the possibility that
supplies containing unapproved crops may enter Japan,” Iwahama
said. “We can resume purchases after U.S. authorities establish
testing methods to identify the unapproved variety.”  Wheat on the Chicago Board of Trade fell, extending the
biggest monthly loss since February. Futures for July delivery
dropped as much as 0.9 percent to $6.9625 a bushel and were
$7.0025 at 3:35 p.m. Tokyo time, extending this year’s losses to
10 percent.  The ministry controls overseas purchases and domestic sales
of wheat to stabilize supply in Japan, which depends on imports
for 60 percent of its food. Western-white wheat is used in Japan
mainly to make cakes and cookies. About 90 percent of wheat
produced in Oregon is said to be soft-white wheat, which Japan
also bought for livestock feed, Iwahama said.  Bread, Noodles  Japan will continue importing hard-red winter wheat and
dark-northern spring wheat from the U.S., as they are sourced
from  Montana ,  Washington ,  North Dakota  and Minnesota states, he
said. These types of wheat are used in Japan for bread and
noodles.  “Japan is a key importer of wheat from multiple
destinations, but they are renowned purchasers of U.S. wheat,
Australian wheat and Canadian wheat,” said  Luke Mathews , a
commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “Any
disruption that occurs to U.S.-Japan trade flows, for whatever
reason, has the potential to be supportive for Australian
exporters.”  Japan has stockpiles of wheat equivalent to 2.3 months of
consumption. The ministry expects imports from the U.S. to
resume before the inventories are depleted, as the U.S.
government is acting to contain the problem, Iwahama said.  Unapproved Seeds  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday it is
investigating how the unapproved seeds slipped out and were
growing nine years after St. Louis-based Monsanto ended its
wheat program. The discovery may prompt foreign buyers uneasy
with gene-altered crops to stop buying wheat from the U.S.,
according to critics including the Union of Concerned Scientists
and the Center for  Food Safety .  If Japan discovers supplies containing modified crops that
have not been confirmed safe by the health ministry, it orders
importers to ship them back to exporting countries, or dispose
of them.  Japan imported 5.62 million tons of milling wheat last
fiscal year, of which 3.26 million tons or 58 percent, was from
the U.S. Canada was the second-largest supplier to Japan, with
1.32 million tons, while  Australia  was the third with 1.03
million.  Japan imported 867,000 tons of western-white wheat from the
U.S. in the year ended March 31, data from the  Agriculture
Ministry  showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  