-- Japan’s Bond Market Wants BOJ to Purchase More Short-Term
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-05-30T09:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/japan-s-bond-market-wants-boj-to-purchase-more-short-term.html
The Bank of  Japan  will increase the
number of its monthly government bond purchases after market
participants yesterday asked for the move to tame volatility in
debt prices.  The central bank will purchase Japanese government bonds
about 8 to 10 times a month starting June, compared with the
current pace of around 8 times, according to a BOJ statement
today in Tokyo. In a meeting with central bank officials
yesterday, most market participants agreed to a proposal to
boost such operations.  The BOJ is trying to steady a debt market where volatility
has risen to the highest in four years in the wake of
unprecedented monetary easing steps last month. Yesterday’s
gathering with bond market players is the third under the tenure
of Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, who last week reiterated a pledge
to improve communication on central bank policy.  “The bank has allowed excessive volatility to remain in
the JGB market for as much as seven weeks,” Shogo Fujita, the
chief Japanese bond strategist in  Tokyo  at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, one of the 24 primary dealers obliged to bid at
government auctions, said before yesterday’s meeting. “The
situation doesn’t raise Kuroda’s credibility so far.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Japanese government bond
jumped to a more than one-year high of 1 percent last week, even
after the BOJ pledged to double bond purchases to end 15 years
of deflation in the world’s third-largest economy. Kuroda
indicated this week that Japan can weather an increase in yields
if it occurs alongside an economic recovery.  Debt Burden  Japan’s Topix share index has surged more than 50 percent
since the middle of November amid optimism for expanded fiscal
and monetary stimulus under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Kuroda
at the central bank. Even so, rising JGB yields threaten the
sustainability of what’s already the world’s largest debt burden
and undermine the government’s aim to stoke growth through low
borrowing costs.  The  five-year JGB yield  was at 0.385 percent today and
earlier this month reached a two-year high of 0.455 percent.
That’s almost five times the record low of 0.095 percent reached
in March ahead of Kuroda’s appointment as governor.  Participants at yesterday’s meeting said the BOJ should
increase buying of one-to-five year notes to reduce volatility,
and suggested smaller purchases at each operation, according to
an official who asked not to be named, citing the central bank’s
policy. The average duration of bond purchases now is about
seven years, the official said.  Attendees at the meeting didn’t think the BOJ should set a
rigid target for bond buying or give notice for each operation
as the Federal Reserve does, the official told reporters.  Auction Demand  Implied volatility of Japan’s 10-year note futures, a
measure of expected moves used to price options, climbed to 7.96
percent yesterday, the highest since November 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A sale of 20-year debt this week
drew the lowest demand since August 2012.  The 10-year JGB yield rose three basis points to 0.935
percent yesterday, the highest close since April 2012. The rate
has almost tripled from the record low 0.315 percent reached on
April 5. It was at 0.89 percent today.  After meetings with market representatives last month, the
BOJ revised its monthly  bond purchases  to “approximately 7+
trillion yen” ($69.5 billion) per month from an earlier
estimate of 7.5 trillion yen.  BOJ policy board member Ryuzo Miyao said this week that the
central bank’s bond buying will “ strongly support ” growth by
keeping interest rates lower even when improved economic
prospects put upward pressure on borrowing costs.  ‘Healthy Sign’  So far, policy makers are getting the opposite results. As
JGB yields climbed, the benchmark lending rate for large
corporations, known as the  prime rate , rose 10 basis points from
its record low to 1.25 percent on May 10, according to Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. Rates for 35-year  home loans  inched higher
to 1.81 percent this month from an all-time low of 1.8 percent
in April, data from the Japan Housing Finance Agency show.  For supporters of Abenomics like Jesper Koll, JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s head of equity research in Tokyo, the rise in JGB
yields is a “healthy sign” that the economy is improving and
investors are seeking riskier assets. For J. Kyle Bass, whose
Hayman Advisors LP made $500 million amid the U.S. subprime
crisis and is now betting on a fiscal collapse in Japan, it
means the BOJ will have to “dramatically” increase bond-buying
efforts to counteract investor selling.  ‘BOJ Dominates’  “The BOJ dominates asset markets for better or worse,”
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in a post on Twitter. “Watch
JGBs, the yen and the exodus from each.”  Japan’s outstanding debt was 991.6 trillion yen at the end
of March, a ministry report showed this month. It’s projected to
reach 245 percent of gross domestic product this year, according
to an International Monetary Fund estimate, the highest ratio in
the world.  Minutes released this week of the BOJ’s April 26 meeting
showed divisions on the policy board, where “a few” members
see difficulties meeting a 2 percent price goal by the end of
March 2016. One member said the bond market could become
unstable again, while others said that swings in financial
markets had been triggered by perceptions that the BOJ had
conflicting goals -- trying to push down interest rates while
pursuing inflation.  There are no signs investors have “excessively bullish
expectations,” Kuroda said in Tokyo on May 26. He cited an
April BOJ report indicating rates could rise by between one and
three percentage points in an improving economy without causing
financial instability. In parliament today, he said he sought to
reduce volatility to make the central bank’s policy effective.  Kuroda’s BOJ has shown it will step into bond markets to
stem volatility. When JGB yields touched 1 percent on May 23 and
a plunge in bond futures set off a circuit breaker on the stock
exchange, the central bank supplied 2 trillion yen to the
financial system, its second such market-calming infusion this
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  