-- Japan Stock Futures Rise After Nikkei Enters Correction
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 2013-05-30T19:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/japan-stock-futures-rise-on-report-of-pension-fund-buying.html
Japanese stock-index futures climbed
following a report that the nation’s public pension fund may
boost its equities holdings and as the  International Monetary
Fund  was said to support government stimulus policies.  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average futures expiring in June rose 1.5
percent to 13,810 at 3 a.m. in Osaka, having earlier surged as
much as 2.8 percent. The underlying  gauge  closed 5.2 percent
lower at 13,589.03 today, entering a correction after sliding
more than 10 percent from the May 22 high. The yen gained 0.2
percent to 100.94 per dollar after climbing as much as 0.7
percent earlier.  Japan’s $1 trillion Government Pension Investment Fund is
considering changes that would allow a greater investment in
shares, Reuters reported today, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter. The shift would be the fund’s most
significant revision in strategy since 2006, according to the
 news agency .  “The report suggests a more flexible approach is being
considered, which could allow investment in domestic stocks to
grow,” said Ioan Smith, a strategist at Knight Capital Europe
Ltd. in London. “The fund’s overall allocation will not dip
below the last reported level of 13 percent and must now be
close to its 17 percent ceiling.”  The Bank of  New York  Mellon Japan ADR Index, which tracks
U.S.-listed shares of Japanese companies, climbed 0.8 percent at
3:10 p.m. in New York. Toyota Motor Corp., the country’s
largest automaker, gained 1 percent to $120.80.  The pension fund is considering the first change to its
asset balance amid concern government policies could erode the
value of $747 billion in local bonds, President Takahiro Mitani
said in a Feb. 1 interview with  Bloomberg News .  ‘Meaningful’ Reaction  “The reaction will only be meaningful if the fund confirms
the report in the morning,” said  Curtis Freeze , who helps
oversee about $340 million as chief investment officer at
Prospect Asset Management in  Tokyo . “The stocks may open
higher, but will come down by the afternoon unless they announce
a big number.”  Nikkei futures also advanced as a Japanese official said
 David Lipton , an IMF official, supports the government’s
stimulus policies. The government official had been briefed on
today’s meeting in Tokyo between Lipton and Japan’s Deputy Prime
Minister Taro Aso.  The broader  Topix (TPX)  sank 3.8 percent today. The measure
plunged 6.9 percent on May 23, its biggest one-day decline since
the March 2011 tsunami and nuclear disaster, erasing 30.7
trillion yen ($304 billion) in market value. The index is still
up 32 percent this year.  “Until now, the GPIF was forced to sell stocks in order to
keep within its allocated percentage for equity holdings,” said
 Kyohei Morita , an economist at Barclays Plc in Tokyo. “As a
result, they were putting a cap on gains when share prices rose.
If their investment methods are going to become freer, it’s
positive for the stock market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net ;
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  