-- Jets’ Sanchez Needs to Show More Emotion to Rebound, Namath Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-31T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/jets-sanchez-needs-to-show-more-emotion-to-rebound-namath-says.html
Mark Sanchez  needs to show more
emotion on the field as he looks to re-establish himself as the
 New York Jets ’ starting quarterback and regain the support of
fans, Hall of Fame player  Joe Namath  said.  Sanchez has a 14-17 record and committed a total of 52
turnovers the past two years after helping the Jets reach the
American Football Conference championship game in each of his
first two National Football League seasons. The 26-year-old was
briefly benched late last season and the Jets selected
quarterback Geno Smith in the second round of April’s NFL draft.  Namath, 70, who led the Jets to their only Super Bowl title
after the 1968 season, said he thinks Sanchez will improve this
year and that he could take some cues from  Eli Manning ’s start
with the  New York Giants .  “Eli Manning, his first four years, the fans didn’t all
like him, his demeanor -- he didn’t smile, he didn’t show the
animation,” Namath said during an interview in  New York .
“Sanchez, I want to see him get angry instead of saying, ‘OK,
all right.’ He’s been such a good soldier, so to speak. I’d
rather see him get teed off.”  Manning, 32, led the Giants to a Super Bowl titles in his
fourth NFL season, when he also led the league with 20
interceptions. Manning threw 55 interceptions in his first three
full seasons as a starter while failing to complete more than 58
percent of his passes.  Manning has connected on 60 percent of his passes every
year since, earning the respect of teammates and fans with 134
touchdowns, 80 interceptions and a second Super Bowl title.  Sanchez hasn’t had a better-than 56.7 completion percentage
in his first four seasons.  Help Needed  “He’s endured,” said Namath, who this weekend is
participating in a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Canton,  Ohio , to
unveil the Pro Football Hall of Fame’s $27 million expansion.
“What he’s learned through these four years, that’s only going
to help him. He’s going to get better, but he needs help.”  John Idzik, hired as the Jets’ general manager this
offseason, said he wanted to bring in players to push Sanchez,
who was the team’s first-round draft pick in 2009. In addition
to drafting Smith, the Jets signed free-agent David Garrard, who
retired this month because of a knee injury.  Namath said he doesn’t think Sanchez needed to be
challenged and that bringing in quarterback  Tim Tebow  last
season to use in a wildcat offensive package was a mistake that
hampered Sanchez’s development. Tebow was released last month
after throwing eight passes and rushing for 102 yards in limited
playing time over 12 games last season.  Little Imagination  “There are some players that need to be pushed, but with
Mark I don’t think that’s the problem,” said Namath, who played
with the Jets from 1965 to 1976. “It’s more the problem of what
he’s gone through recently with the offense that they had, with
Tebow coming in and chopping things up. It was clear the offense
last year didn’t have a whole lot of imagination.”  While Sanchez isn’t assured of the starting job this
season, Namath says there’s no question he has the advantage
over the 22-year-old Smith, who was the second quarterback taken
in this year’s draft after throwing for a school-record 11,662
yards and 98 touchdowns at  West Virginia University .  “These next three months will dictate who should be on the
field in September,” Namath said. “Mark has the advantage of
having had the experiences, some peaks and a lot of valleys
here. To me, that’s a positive to be able to endure and have the
right attitude.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  