-- KenolKobil of Kenya Abolishes Fuel Hedging After Posting Losses
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-05-30T15:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/kenolkobil-of-kenya-abolishes-fuel-hedging-after-posting-losses.html
KenolKobil Ltd., a Kenyan fuel
retailer with operations in nine African countries, will stop
buying volumes forward following a currency loss last year.  “It has been decided by the board not to take any more
forward covers on the exchange,” Managing Director  Jacob Segman 
told shareholders today at a meeting in the capital, Nairobi.  The company, which previously hedged a quarter of its fuel
imports, posted a foreign-exchange loss of 4.6 billion shillings
($54 million) in 2012, erasing full-year profit. Fuel companies
are scaling back forward purchases to increase exposure to the
market price of oil.  “Most companies are now adopting a more conservative
hedging policy, they are no longer hedging as much as they used
to,” said Eric Musau, an analyst at Standard Investment Bank
Ltd. “The oil-price volatility caused a lot of aviation
companies and  oil companies  huge losses.” KenolKobil said today
it’s reducing supplies of  aviation fuel  as it’s unprofitable.  KenolKobil rose 1.9 percent to 10.5 shillings in Nairobi
trading. The stock has fallen 23 percent this year, compared
with a 33 percent gain on the  Nairobi Securities Exchange All-Share Index. (NSEASI)   The company increased borrowings in the first half of last
year to finance hedging, Finance Director Pat Lai told
shareholders today, without providing figures. It’s now
considering shifting toward dollar-debt to curb costs, she said.  “We’re looking at the composition of our borrowings,” Lai
said. KenolKobil is studying “moving shillings to dollars,
which will be better for us because the dollar interest rates
are lower.”  Cutting Payroll  The company,  Kenya ’s biggest fuel retailer by market value,
is cutting costs by identifying idle and “low-performing”
assets for sale and reducing the wage bill, Segman said. It will
cut staff to 360 by June from 570 a year earlier by eliminating
the posts of retiring employees and ending lapsed contracts.  The Nairobi-based company has long been looking for a
partner to help fund expansion. On March 1, KenolKobil said it
ended talks on selling a controlling stake to Puma Energy BV, a
Geneva-based fuel supplier owned by Trafigura Beheer BV.  “We are still seeking a strategic investor, if we want a
better future we need a strategic investor,” Segman said today.
“There are a number of companies who are either traders in the
midstream or in the midstream and upstream who have the capacity
to contribute to the growth of this organization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  