-- Keurig, Boer Power, Time Warner: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/keurig-boer-power-time-warner-intellectual-property.html
     May 30 (Bloomberg) - Keurig Inc., the maker of single-cup
coffee brewing systems, lost a patent challenge to a California
competitor.  The Wakefield, Massachusetts-based company sued JBR Inc. in
federal court in  Boston  in November 2011, claiming that three of
its patents for single-server beverage-brewer containers were
infringed by JBR’s One Cup product. JBR, based in Lincoln,
California, does business as Rogers Family Co.  Keurig, a unit of  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ,
asked the court to find that JBR infringed and induced others to
infringe patents D502,362, 7,165,488 and 7,347,138. It also
sought an order barring further infringement, and awards of
money damages and JBR’s profits attributable to the alleged
infringement.  In his May 24 ruling, U.S. District Judge Dennis Saylor
said that the designs of the two competing products were
dissimilar. Keurig failed to prove that the two designs would
appear substantially the same to the ordinary observer, he said.  The judge also found that that Keurig couldn’t claim the
other two patents were infringed because its  patent rights 
didn’t extend to completed products that could be used with the
coffee makers it sold.  Under  patent law ’s “permissible repair” exception, the
patentee can’t control what is done with a patented article
after it is sold. Judge Saylor said using a coffee cartridge
from a different manufacturer fell within this “permissible
repair” defense to charges of infringement, and dismissed the
case.  The case is Keurig Inc., v. JBR Inc., 1:11-cv-11941-FDS,
U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  Boer Power Acquired Patents, Brands From Spanish Company  Boer Power Holdings Ltd. (1685) , a Chinese maker of electrical
distribution systems, said in a statement yesterday that it is
buying patents and brands from Grupo de Empresas Temper SL.  The patents and brands are related to electric and power
equipment and were acquired for 250,000 euros ($323,525), the
company said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Mexx Wins Russian Internet Domain Name Trademark Challenge  Mexx Europe BV, an Amsterdam-based manufacturer of
clothing, accessories and household goods, won a trademark
dispute in a Russian court, the Russian Legal Information
Service  reported .  The Ninth Commercial Court of Appeal upheld a lower-court
ruling barring the use of the Mexx.ru Internet domain name by a
Russian businessman, according to RAPSI.  Vladislav Mukhin registered the domain name without the
Dutch company’s authorization and demanded 15,000 Euros
($19,400) to give up the website, RAPSI reported.  Mexx operates 95 stores in  Russia , with plans to open
another 15, according to RAPSI.  Velvet Underground Settles Warhol Suit Over Banana Design  The  Velvet Underground  reached a settlement of its lawsuit
claiming that the  Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts 
infringed the rock band’s trademark for the banana design that
appeared on an album cover.  U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan said in an order
yesterday in  Manhattan  that the case has been discontinued.  “The parties have reached a confidential agreement to
settle the case,” Joshua Paul, a lawyer for the Warhol
Foundation, said in a May 28 letter to the judge.  The Warhol Foundation, which licenses merchandise based on
the late artist’s designs, said that it owned the rights to the
banana design he created for the band’s first commercial album.
The Velvet Underground and its founders,  Lou Reed  and John Cale,
sued the foundation in January 2012, claiming the band had
trademark rights to the banana design, which has become a
“symbol, truly an icon” of the group.  The case is Velvet Underground v. Andy Warhol Foundation
for the Visual Arts, 12-0201, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Warner Brothers’ ‘Dark Knight’ Didn’t Infringe Mark, Court Says  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Brothers unit didn’t infringe
trademarks belonging to an Indiana-based software unit, a
federal judge ruled.  Fortres Grand Corp.  of Plymouth,  Indiana , filed suit in
September 2012 claiming infringement by a fictional software
program mentioned in Warner Brothers’ Batman movie “ The Dark
Knight Rises ” and that it lost sales after the July 2012
release of the film.  According to the Indiana company’s website, its  Clean Slate 
product restores a computer to its original configuration by
discarding unwanted changes users may have made. The “clean
slate” program in the Batman movie will erase a criminal’s
history from every database in the world, according to court
papers.  U.S. District Judge Philip P. Simon in  South Bend , Indiana,
noted that the two companies’ respective products didn’t compete
in the marketplace, as Warner Brothers’ product is a film rather
than software. The “clean slate” product in the film doesn’t
exist in reality, so it is unlikely that consumers will be
confused, he said.  To make a case under trademark law’s “reverse confusion”
section, Warner Brothers would have had to roll out “a huge
nationwide campaign for a product called ‘clean slate,’” he
said in his ruling. No consumer -- “reasonable or
unreasonable”-- would believe “The Dark Knight Rises” is
connected to the  software company , according to Simon’s order.  While the judge said Fortres Grand probably couldn’t state
a plausible claim for trademark infringement, he gave the
software maker a chance to file an amended complaint.  The case is Fortres Grand Corp. v. Warner Brothers
Entertainment Inc., 3:12-cv-00535-PPS-CAN, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Indiana (South Bend).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Lawyer in Adult-Film Download Case Says He Can’t Pay Sanctions  A lawyer involved in bringing copyright cases related to
unauthorized downloading of adult films asked a court to relieve
him of the obligation to pay an attorney-fee award of more than
$81,000.  The fee order came in a federal case in  Los Angeles  in
which the judge characterized the lawyers representing the
film’s maker as a “porno-trolling collective.” He said they
conspired to operate an enterprise that went after those who
allegedly downloaded the film without permission and offered to
settle the infringement claims for about $4,000.  The lawyers showed ‘little desire to proceed in these
lawsuits when faced with a determined defendant,’’ and instead
would dismiss the cases, U.S. District Judge Otis D. Wright II
said in his May 6 sanctions order. He then imposed a fee of
$1,000 a day for each day after May 20 that the sanctions
weren’t paid.  Brett L. Gibbs, one of the sanctioned attorneys, said in a
May 23 filing that he can’t pay the sanctions or to secure a
bond for that amount. For the past two years he has been unable
to practice law for health reasons and lacks any asset that
would allow him to pay the court’s assessment, he said.  Gibbs argued the court has discretion to discharge a bond
requirement when a financial condition is “so impaired” that
getting a bond would be impossible.  Gibbs, of  Mill Valley ,  California , said he wasn’t trying to
shirk his duties and was willing to consider any alternative
arrangement the court would offer.  The case is Ingenuity 13 LLC v. John Doe, 2:12-cv-08333-ODW-JC, U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 