-- Kingfisher Profit Slumps as Cold Weather Hurts Easter Sales
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-05-30T09:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/kingfisher-profit-slumps-as-cold-weather-hurts-easter-sales-1-.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ,  Europe ’s largest
home-improvement retailer, reported a steeper drop in first-quarter earnings than analysts anticipated as cold March weather
delayed the start of the gardening season.  So-called retail profit fell 28 percent to 114 million
pounds ($173 million), the London-based owner of the Castorama
and B&Q chains said today. That compared with the 144 million-pound median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The shares fell as much as 4.5 percent,  the most  in nine months.  Kingfisher gets most of its revenue from the U.K. and
Ireland, where same-store sales fell 4.7 percent, and  France ,
where they declined 5.6 percent. Business improved toward the
end of the quarter as the weather warmed up, Chief Executive
Officer Ian Cheshire told a conference call, pointing to signs
of improvement amid increased interest in U.K. house purchases.  “It may be that the company’s poor results reflect more
than just the poor weather,” said Peter Saville, a partner at
advisory firm Zolfo Cooper, by e-mail. “With the housing market
only just starting to show real signs of life and consumers
still reluctant to spend on non-essential big ticket items, it
is not surprising that home-improvement chains are suffering.”  The  shares  were down 0.2 percent at 327.1 pence as of 10:23
a.m. They pared earlier declines after Cheshire said he was
encouraged by an improvement in the weather and “glimmers of
light” in Britain’s housing market.  House Prices  U.K. house prices increased the most in 18 month in May,
figures from  Nationwide Building Society  showed, while mortgage
approvals probably increased to 54,600 in April from 53,504 in
March, according to a  Bloomberg News  survey of economists.  That should help stimulate purchases of home-improvement
items, after an “abrupt” period of cold weather in March and
the first two weeks of April, Cheshire said.  The first quarter was “very spikey” in terms of weather,
the CEO said. “If we don’t get any other unexpected bumps in
weather, we’re in reasonable shape,” for the rest of the year.  Sales of outdoor products such as garden furniture declined
by 10 percent in the quarter, the retailer said.  The U.K. outdoor business, which represents more than 30
percent of sales in the quarter, fell 10 percent with
greenhouses down 32 percent and bedding plants down 8 percent,
while tiling sales rose 2 percent as people stayed indoors.  The market for smaller tradesmen was more resilient, the
company said. Eight Screwfix stores were added in the quarter,
taking the total to 283, Cheshire said.  “Time is running out for Kingfisher to avoid another
profit fall in the first half,”  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at
Panmure Gordon, said by e-mail. The first-quarter performance
was “quite a miss.” He rates Kingfisher buy.  Cheshire said he’s “comfortable” with analyst estimates
for full-year pretax profit of 772 million pounds and is sure of
a first-half profit as the retailer claws back sales of some
seasonal items in second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  