-- KKR Hires Ex-CIA Chief Petraeus to Lead Firm’s New Unit
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-05-30T16:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/kkr-is-said-to-hire-ex-cia-chief-petraeus-to-run-new-unit.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  hired David Petraeus, the
former director of the Central Intelligence Agency, to run a new
unit for public policy, economic research and emerging-market
due diligence at the private-equity firm.  KKR, led by billionaires  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts ,
will create an internal institute to study macroeconomic trends
and government policies to assess their implications on the
firm’s investments, the New York-based firm said today in a
statement. Petraeus will be chairman of the division, called KKR
Global Institute, and help the company evaluate investment
opportunities in new markets.  “This is not just about the deals in terms of dollars and
cents,” Petraeus said in a telephone interview. “It’s about
investors who require more information and want a deeper
understanding of the operations of the businesses, for example,
and of how exactly their money is being put to work.”  Petraeus, 60, resigned from the CIA on Nov. 9 after a probe
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation that uncovered evidence
of an extramarital affair with Paula Broadwell, the author of a
biography about the retired four-star general. Petraeus, who
previously was the commander of U.S. military forces in
Afghanistan and Iraq, will also start as a visiting professor at
 City University  of New York on Aug. 1, the school said last
month.  Increased Regulation  KKR said it’s responding in part to the increased role of
central banks and heightened regulation following the financial
crisis. Investment firms including BlackRock Inc., Cerberus
Capital Management LP and  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  have recruited former
high-ranking government officials for similar roles.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, earlier this
year named  Peter Fisher , former Treasury undersecretary for
domestic finance, as the senior director of BlackRock Investment
Institute. Fisher was previously head of fixed income at
BlackRock.  Cerberus, the private-equity firm run by  Stephen Feinberg ,
has employed former U.S. Vice President Dan Quayle since 1999
and former Treasury Secretary John Snow since 2006, according to
its website. Carlyle, known for its ties with former government
officials since its inception in 1987, has counted President
 George H.W. Bush  and former U.K. Prime Minister  John Major  as
previous advisers.  Petraeus’s Role  At KKR, Petraeus will work with a team and also collaborate
with  Henry McVey , global head of macro and asset allocation, and
Ken Mehlman, global head of public affairs and the former
chairman of the  Republican National Committee , KKR said. McVey
regularly publishes what the firm calls thought pieces, and the
firm said it plans to make the institute an outlet for articles
by portfolio managers and others affiliated with the company.  Mehlman, who said Petraeus will have work space in KKR’s
Manhattan headquarters, declined to say how Petraeus will be
compensated. The retired general may, for example, be asked to
evaluate how a portfolio company’s footprint in a foreign
country is perceived by its population, Mehlman said.  “To be the CIA director, you’re a student of the world,”
Mehlman said in an interview. “Dave will help us ask questions
that we didn’t think about before. You end up being better
investors when you understand the world better.”  GE, Boeing  The retired general also brings his experience dealing with
big corporations. Petraeus said when he was overseeing the U.S.
strategy in Iraq, Prime Minister Nouri Al-Maliki asked him to
call chief executive officers of “huge” U.S. companies to ask
them to return to the country after the violence led them to
leave. Petraeus called General Electric Co. CEO  Jeffrey Immelt 
to personally urge him to revive the company’s power-generation
plants in Iraq, he said. Both GE and Boeing Co. brought back
some operations in the country.  Petraeus said he has closely followed trends in North
America including what he called revolutions in the energy,
manufacturing, life-sciences and information-technology
industries. As CIA director, he urged the agency to study their
implications for the continent and the global economy.  “My assessment has been that it will be the United States
and the greater North American region that pulls the world
economy out of the global slowdown,” Petraeus said.  KKR, founded in 1976 by Kravis, Roberts and their partner
Jerome Kohlberg Jr., regularly employs former government
officials to help the firm find, evaluate and streamline deals,
typically as senior advisers. The firm has at least 25 such
advisers, consisting of former chief executives or government
insiders who in some cases also serve on the boards of KKR’s
portfolio companies. Kohlberg left the firm in 1987.  $3 Trillion  The firm last year named former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  CEO  John Mack  as a senior adviser to help make KKR “smarter investors,”
Kravis said at the time. Other KKR advisers include  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  CEO  David Cote , former Caterpillar Inc. CEO
James Owens and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  Chairman Leigh Clifford.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  The industry manages about $3 trillion of assets, according
to research firm Preqin Ltd. KKR oversees $78 billion, investing
in buyouts, energy, real estate and  hedge funds .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  