-- Korea Will Probe Chaebol Executives Named in Tax-Evasion Reports
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k ,   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-05-30T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/korea-will-probe-chaebol-executives-named-in-tax-evasion-reports.html
South Korea ’s financial regulator
said it will open a probe into possible illicit fund transfers
after a media group reported it uncovered hundreds of people who
opened paper companies in offshore havens.  “We will investigate every one of them,” Lee Gyeong Su,
an official at the  Financial Supervisory Service ’s foreign
exchange team, said by phone in  Seoul  yesterday. “When doing
capital transactions, they’re required to report to the
authorities prior to the trades, so now we are investigating
whether they violated the law.”  President Park Geun Hye’s government has pledged to crack
down on  tax evasion  to fund her pledges to boost welfare
spending. In separate probes, prosecutors on May 29 searched the
home of CJ Group Chairman Lee Jay Hyun and tax authorities
yesterday raided the life insurance unit of Hanwha Group.  “This is part of Park’s plan to uncover the underground
 economy  and it looks like this is only the beginning,” said
Kang Byung Goo, an economics professor researching tax reforms 
at Inha University in Incheon. “The Park government needs to 
come up with 135 trillion won during her term to finance welfare
and other pledges made during the presidential election.”  The Korea Center for Investigative Journalism said on May
22 that it found 245 South Koreans established paper companies
in  tax havens  including the British Virgin Islands and  Cook
Islands  from 1995 through 2009.  The names released so far by the news organization haven’t
included executives from CJ Group and Hanwha Life.  People’s Happiness  Among those that have been identified are executives of
 Samsung Group ,  Hanjin Shipping Co. (117930)  and a former executive at
 Daewoo International (047050)  Corp.  Samsung Group had no comment, spokeswoman Lim Bo Mi said by
phone.  The Hanjin executive ended the relationship with the paper
company in November 2011, according to an e-mailed statement
from the shipping firm.  Daewoo International has no documents or records related to
the company mentioned on the list and has had no history of
transactions with the company since its establishment, it said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to queries.  President Park has promised to usher in a “People’s
Happiness Era,” bolstering the middle class to 70 percent of
the 50 million population, from 67.7 percent. Pledges include
funds to help prevent loan defaults by people on low incomes.  Her father, the dictator Park Chung Hee, had backed the
family-controlled industrial groups referred to as chaebols.  Underground Economy  The  Finance Ministry  in April said that the government will
need 135 trillion won ($120 billion) to finance her pledges as
the government seeks to increase state support of public
welfare, entrepreneurs and possible unification. While 84.1
trillion won, or 62 percent, will come from reducing spending,
the rest will be financed through tackling tax evaders and
uncovering hidden funds, the ministry said.  South Korea’s tax agency began investigations into 23
businesses and individuals suspected of evading taxes through
paper companies established in tax havens, the National Tax
Service said in a statement yesterday. The investigation is part
of government efforts to regulate the “underground economy”
and push for “fair tax justice,” according to the statement.  The tax agency yesterday raided the life insurance unit of
Hanwha Group, Kim Myoung Hwan, a spokesman at  Hanwha Life
Insurance Co. (088350) , said by phone.  “The NTS doesn’t comment about the private matters of
individual taxpayers,” said Song Gi Bong, a spokesman for the
tax service.  CJ Group will cooperate and explain if needed, the company
said in an e-mail after being asked to comment on a Yonhap
report that prosecutors searched the residence of group chairman
Lee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  