-- N.Y.’s Suffolk County Cut by Moody’s Before $62 Million Sale
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-05-30T20:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/n-y-s-suffolk-county-cut-by-moody-s-before-62-million-sale.html
New York’s Suffolk County, home of
the Hamptons beach towns, had its credit rating cut one level by
Moody’s Investors Service as the locality prepares to sell $62.3
million of general obligations as soon as next week.  Moody’s lowered Suffolk to A2, five grades below top-rated
debt, because it failed to meet projected fiscal 2012 year-end
budget estimates and as it expects to use non-recurring revenue
to balance the fiscal 2013 spending plan, the company said in a
report today. The move affected about $1.4 billion of debt.  Suffolk projects a $530 million cumulative deficit for
fiscal years 2011-2013 because of “aggressive” sales-tax
estimates and failure to make meaningful spending reductions,
Valentina Gomez, a Moody’s analyst in New York, wrote in the
report. The rating outlook is negative.  Suffolk plans to issue through competitive bid as soon as
next week, Richard Tortora, president of Capital Markets
Advisors LLC, which works with the county on its finances, said
in an interview.  “The county’s typically in the market twice a year to fund
their capital program, so this is their scheduled spring
borrowing,” said Tortora, whose company has offices in Great
Neck, New York.  Suffolk last sold long-term general obligations in October,
with bonds maturing in 10 years and carrying insurance priced to
yield 2.6 percent, about 0.9 percentage point above benchmark
munis, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fitch Ratings lowered the county in March by one step to A,
sixth-highest. Standard & Poor’s grades the county one level
higher at A+, with a negative outlook.  The Long Island county is among localities still rebounding
from  Hurricane Sandy , which hit the Northeast on Oct. 29, with
winds and driving flood waters.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  