-- New York Times Is Said to Consider More Sponsored Stories
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/new-york-times-is-said-to-consider-more-sponsored-stories.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , looking to
imitate the business models used by startups such as BuzzFeed
Inc., is considering letting advertisers sponsor more stories on
its website, two people with knowledge of the situation said.  In a series of meetings with senior sales and editorial
staff last month, Chairman Arthur Sulzberger and Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Thompson  discussed the idea of offering bigger
sponsorship opportunities to advertisers, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks were private. Outside
executives such as BuzzFeed CEO Jonah Peretti were brought in to
talk about creating successful “native ads,” which often take
the form of sponsored stories.  The 161-year-old publisher is seeking new sources of
revenue after 10 straight quarters of declining newspaper ad
sales. Annual advertising revenue has been cut almost in half
to $711.8 million last year from $1.27 billion in 2006, before
the recession and a proliferation of mobile devices crippled the
newspaper industry.  In embracing new sponsorship opportunities, the Times will
make it clear when readers are seeing an ad versus a regular
story, said Todd Haskell, a vice president of advertising at the
New York-based company. He declined to discuss what presenters
shared at the recent meetings or the reaction of Times Co.
executives.  Custom Content  “What we’re looking at is ways you can use journalistic
storytelling techniques in how you could present a narrative for
our clients without misleading or confusing the reader,”
Haskell said in an interview. His staff is constantly
considering new ad formats, including custom, advertorial-like
content for the Times website, he said.  Part of the strategy is avoiding controversial sponsors.
The Atlantic magazine drew criticism earlier this year for a
sponsored online post from the Church of Scientology, which
carried the headline, “David Miscavige Leads Scientology to
Milestone Year.” The magazine took down the post and apologized
to its readers in a  mea culpa  that started, “We screwed up.”  Already, the New York Times is getting more aggressive with
how it uses its home page -- a site that draws about 35 million
visitors a month, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  A recent ad for
carmaker Jaguar  overlaid the entire website  with a mock news
article announcing the arrival of its latest sports car:
“Jaguar Unleashes New Cat,” the headline read.  The text of the Jaguar story was obscured, distinguishing
it from a regular article, and it disappeared after readers
pushed the “close” button. An ad for the cereal Grape Nuts
used a similar faux-newspaper approach on the Times home page
this week.  Citi Bike  In another expansion of its advertising boundaries, the
Times said this week that it will include sponsored content in
its Scoop application, a mobile guide to  New York City . Citi
Bike, New York’s new bicycle-sharing program, contributed a
feature to the app that helps users find bike stations.  Adopting BuzzFeed’s approach to ads would be a step
further.  When Peretti created BuzzFeed in 2006, he focused on
generating stories that were most likely to be shared over
social media. The site is a mix of list-based articles, such as
“ 10 Funniest Cat GIFs of the Week ,” and more serious coverage
of politics and business.  BuzzFeed doesn’t accept traditional banner ads, which
typically have little connection to the articles they appear
next to. Instead, its advertisers sponsor features that readers
are more likely to share with others.  ‘Pizza Porn’  Zipcar Inc., for instance, underwrote a story called “ 11
Annoying City Living Problems ,” a feature designed to appeal to
its urban demographic.  The Fox broadcast network, meanwhile, sponsored “ 20 Hot
And Steamy Pieces Of Pizza Porn ,” a list of animated graphics
of pizza. The item promoted a new slate of animated shows
premiering on the TV network in July. While the stories are
labeled with their sponsors’ names, they don’t differ in tone or
presentation from the other articles on BuzzFeed.  Peretti declined to comment on his presentation to the  New
York  Times.  The Times’ website still depends on banner ads, which
haven’t helped the company pull out of a sales slump. Online ad
revenue fell  4 percent  in the most recent quarter, the company
said last month. Another reason for the decline is the
prevalence of ad-buying trading desks, which have put pressure
on prices by turning ad space into a commodity market.  “Competition is increasing in the online ad world, and
it’s important for the Times to explore and innovate with new
types of advertising units,” said William Bird, an analyst at
Lazard Capital Markets in New York.  Fashion Week  The Times has tested a number of online initiatives in
recent years, including corporate sponsorships of special
sections, such as a site devoted to New York Fashion Week.  Still, a large part of the Times’ value comes from its
vaunted reputation, so it’s risky to experiment with models that
blur the lines of journalism, William Grueskin, dean of academic
affairs for  Columbia University ’s journalism school.  “I can see why an organization like the New York Times --
where the brand is so core to its value -- why they’d be wary
about something like this,” he said, referring to the move
toward sponsored content.  The New York Times advertising discussion follows an effort
to refocus the company on its main brand. In February, the
publisher announced it would  sell the Boston Globe  and related
newspapers. The company has already sold its About.com website
and its regional-newspaper business over the past year and a
half. It’s also rebranding its International Herald Tribune
newspaper as the International New York Times.  “If the Times gets their ad dollars back, it’ll have to be
under an entirely different ad structure than they had in the
past,” Grueskin said. “The broader issue at the Times is they
don’t have any hedge -- the entire business is built around the
Times brand. That’s everything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  