-- Norway Ignores IMF by Subsidizing Asset Bubble: Nordic Credit
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-05-30T09:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/norway-ignores-imf-by-subsidizing-asset-bubble-nordic-credit.html
Norway  revealed it’s tapping cash to
subsidize its overheated housing market after proposing a 50
percent increase in mortgage lending to government employees.  The plans to spend more on a market already showing signs
of imbalance, revealed in this month’s revised budget, come as
the International Monetary Fund urges the government to rein in
spending.  The government will use money that “is inside the
parameters of the deviations we expected when we drew up our
financing plan,” Sigurd Klakeg, deputy director general at the
Finance Ministry, said in a telephone interview from Oslo. “We
have ample liquidity and there are cash reserves with the
central bank.”  The comments put an end to speculation that Norway would
need to sell bonds to finance the lending, which it said this
month will reach 33.5 billion ($5.7 billion) in 2013. The step
increases Norway’s total funding need by 19 percent, or 16
billion kroner, to 98 billion kroner,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  estimates.  Norway, which relies on the world’s largest sovereign
wealth fund to keep it debt free, has in the past sold bonds to
fund government lending programs while tapping the $740 billion
wealth fund to plug budget deficits. The government this month
unveiled its most expansionary budget since the height of the
financial crisis in 2009, as it boosted spending by 19 percent
ahead of an election in September.  IMF Warning  On a visit to Norway last week, the IMF warned that
excessive spending is imperiling the economy as record oil
investments push up labor costs and harm competitiveness.
Western Europe’s largest crude producer has struggled to stop
property prices and credit growth accelerating from all-time
highs as record-low global interest rates drag down borrowing
costs in Europe’s second-richest nation per capita.  “Ratcheting down a bit more would make sense,” Thomas Dorsey, part of an IMF mission to Norway, said in an interview
in Oslo. Lower spending would help ease “competitive pressures
on the non-oil parts of the mainland economy.”  Investors have treated Norway as a haven from the debt
crisis in Europe, driving down borrowing costs. Norway’s
benchmark 10-year bond yield has fallen about 40 basis points
since mid-February. The difference in yield relative to similar-maturity German bunds has narrowed to about 74 basis points from
101 basis points in the same period, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Election Effect  Spending is rising as Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg
trails the opposition in the polls ahead of elections in four
months, suggesting his Labor Party-led coalition will be ousted
after eight years in power. He faces an opposition led by the
Conservative Party, which has promised tax cuts and even more
spending.  The central bank has also lowered rates twice since 2010 to
help keep krone gains in check. Home prices jumped 7.7 percent
last year, prompting the financial regulator and the government
to tighten capital and mortgage lending rules to cool the
market.  While the government won’t boost bond sales this year, its
willingness to increase public lending may indicate more
issuance next year, according to Nordea and  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)   “The revised budget is clear evidence that the strong
growth in the various government lending schemes continues,”
said Gaute Marius Langeland, chief strategist at Nordea in Oslo.
“This is a signal that issuance in 2014 is likely to increase
further from an already very high level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  