-- Homebuilders Jump as Government Open to Talks: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-30T20:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/homebuilders-jump-as-government-open-to-talks-mexico-city-mover.html
Mexico’s homebuilders rallied, led by
 Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) , after the government delayed the
presentation of new housing industry rules to hold more
discussions with industry representatives.  The Mexico Habita Index of six homebuilders rose 4.7
percent at 3 p.m. in Mexico City. Homex surged as much as 12
percent to 9.91 pesos, the most since April 19. The benchmark
IPC index of 35 Mexican companies rose 1 percent.  Alejandro Nieto Enriquez, deputy minister of urban
development and housing, told reporters today he delayed the
presentation of the new rules for several weeks after industry
groups asked for time to make suggestions. The government had
planned to give details on the allocation of housing subsidies
by the end of this month.  “The market is looking favorably upon signs of a
relationship based on dialogue instead of confrontation”
between the government and the homebuilding industry, Carlos Hermosillo, an analyst at Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, said in
a telephone interview from  Mexico  City.  The Habita Index has plummeted 55 percent this year, led by
a 74 percent drop in shares of Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB.
Many companies in the industry have seen their cash balances
dwindle as they struggle to adapt to a shifting housing subsidy
policy that now favors capital-intensive apartments in cities
instead of single-family homes in commuter towns.  Debt Loads  After a decade of over-construction in some regions, some
neighborhoods have been abandoned, and builders are saddled with
idle inventory and increased debt loads.  Geo, the second-biggest builder by sales, rose 3.3 percent
today to 5.33 pesos. Urbi, the third-biggest, gained 6.2 percent
to 2.06 pesos.  “Representatives from the housing industry have been
partners in this process,” Nieto Enriquez told reporters in
Mexico City. “They have specifically asked for the postponement
of the announcement of the new rules, with the goal of proposing
more alternatives that will, from their point of view,
contribute to enrich the body and the significance of the
rules.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  