-- London Bankers Report Fewer Bonuses as Pressure Mounts
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-05-30T09:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/london-bankers-report-fewer-bonuses-as-pressure-mounts.html
The proportion of employees in
 London ’s financial district who received a bonus and pay
increases this year declined as regulatory pressure to curb
compensation mounted, a survey showed.  Bonuses were paid to 68 percent of employees for 2012
compared with 82 percent a year earlier, London-based
recruitment firm Morgan McKinley said in a statement today. The
survey also found 36 percent of workers received a pay increase
compared with 47 percent a year ago.  “There is a much greater acceptance of the downward
pressure on cost management and the knock-on effect on overall
reward,” Hakan Enver, operations director at Morgan McKinley
Financial Services, said in the statement. “These hiring
managers will be in the position themselves of both being
eligible for a share of the bonus pot and also having to make
decisions about rewarding their own teams.”  The industry has been cutting fixed costs as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis crimps income from investment-banking
businesses and regulators pressure firms to cut compensation
amid public anger over bank bailouts.  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , HSBC Holdings Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  will employ about 606,000 people worldwide by the
end of 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 24
percent below the peak in 2008, the data show.  The European Union also brokered a deal in February to
outlaw banker bonuses that are more than twice fixed pay, a move
lawmakers said would curb high payouts and stop irresponsible
risk-taking. The survey found that 83 percent of respondents
would still not consider working outside of London if the
European bonus cap is imposed.  “The vast majority of these individuals are unlikely to be
in line for receiving 100 percent of their salary as a bonus and
therefore will be unaffected by these new regulations,” Enver
said.  Morgan McKinley  said it surveyed 180 workers by telephone
in London about their bonus expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  