-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Crude Declines to Lowest in Four Weeks
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-05-30T00:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/top-oil-market-news-wti-crude-declines-to-lowest-in-four-weeks.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Crude Falls to Four-Week Low on Concern Fed to Curb Stimulus  West Texas Intermediate crude fell to a four-week low on
concern that the Federal Reserve will cut debt purchases as the
economy of the world’s biggest oil- consuming nation
strengthens.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Inventories Climbed to Three-Decade High Last Week, API Says  Oil supplies rose to the highest level in more than three
decades as they climbed 4.4 million barrels to 395.1 million
last week, the American Petroleum Institute said.  OPEC VIENNA: Saudi Arabia Says Market Stable Before Meeting  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Al-Naimi says market balanced,
stable, state-run newsagency SPA reports.  Algerian Finance Minister Sees Oil Prices Staying Around $100  Algerian Finance Minister  Karim Djoudi  said in interview at
African Development Bank annual meeting.  Gasoline Falls on Speculation That Inventories Are Increasing  Gasoline fell on speculation that supplies are rising as
refineries restored units to production and lower pump prices
indicated regional tightness eased. The crack spreads, returns
on producing the motor fuel from West Texas Intermediate and
Brent crudes, widened.  Ethanol Outpaces Gasoline on Concern for Tight Feedstock Supply  Ethanol outperformed gasoline on speculation that tighter
corn supplies before the fall harvest will temper fuel
production, which is already below-average for this time of
year.  BP Buys Europe Diesel Cargo; Barges at 2-Week High: Oil Products  European diesel barge premium rises to the highest in 2
weeks as Shell buys. BP purchases at least second diesel cargo
this week.  Options Volatility Jumps to Highest Since May 1 as Oil Declines  Crude oil options volatility jumped to the highest level
since May 1 as the underlying futures fell 2 percent.  OPEC  Best OPEC Discipline Since 2011 No Guarantee for $100 Oil (2)  OPEC’s best adherence to its production ceiling in 18
months is failing to buoy the outlook for crude oil prices,
raising pressure on the group to pare supplies amid burgeoning
U.S. output.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Delek Tyler Refinery Reports Emissions Due to Operational Upset  Delek US Holdings Inc. reported emissions from No. 1 boiler
flare, No. 2 cat flare, sulfur recovery unit incinerators,
sulfur recovery plant due to “unexpected operational
fluctuation,” Texas regulatory filing shows.  Hurricane Barbara Moves Ashore Into Southwestern Mexico  Hurricane Barbara, a Category 1 storm bearing heavy rain,
went ashore in southwestern  Mexico  east of Salina Cruz, where
Petroleos Mexicanos operates the country’s biggest oil refinery.  San Francisco Gasoline Drops as Tesoro Reports Unit Startups  Spot gasoline in San Francisco declined against futures as
Tesoro Corp.’s Golden Eagle refinery in Northern California
reported unit starts.  Suncor Montreal Refinery Performing Six Weeks of Repairs  Suncor Energy Inc. will carry out planned shutdowns of
units for about six weeks, the company said in a notice today.  Phillips 66 Ponca City Refinery Reports Flaring on May 27  Phillips 66’s Ponca City refinery reported emissions on May
27, according to a filing with the Oklahoma Department of
Environmental Quality.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  was unchanged at 7.99 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates Rises 8.9% to 45.53 Points  The cost of delivering Middle East crude to Asia, the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, gained 8.9 percent to
45.53 Worldscale points, according to the Baltic Exchange in
 London .  Primorsk June Urals Crude Exports Lowest in at Least Five Years  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, plans to ship
less than 1 million barrels a day of Urals crude from Primorsk
port on the Baltic Sea for the first time in about five years, a
final loading program showed.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crude grades from the Middle East, Asia,
 Africa  and the Americas. Figures are in dollars a barrel, or
premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Tropical Storm Barbara Bears Down on Mexico’s Pacific Coast (1)  Tropical Storm Barbara is expected to grow into a hurricane
before striking the southwestern coast of Mexico near Salina
Cruz, where Petroleos Mexicanos operates the country’s biggest
oil refinery.  Korea Electric Falls on Nuclear Reactor Shutdowns: Seoul Mover  Korea Electric Power Corp. fell to the lowest in five
months in Seoul trading after South Korea’s government ordered
the shutdown of two nuclear reactors found to be using
components whose safety certificates were faked.  Total Ends U.S. Bribe Probe as France Seeks CEO Prosecution (2)  Total SA agreed to pay $398 million to settle U.S.
allegations it made illegal payments to an Iranian official for
oil and gas contracts as French prosecutors said they’ll seek
charges against the company’s chief executive officer.  Regulator Who Led Probes of Banks’ U.S. Energy Trading Quits (1)  Jon Wellinghoff, who as chairman of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission led a crackdown on U.S. banks over alleged
manipulation of energy markets, says he is quitting.  Iran  Nuclear Program a Platform for Jalili’s Presidency Bid (1)  Saeed Jalili, the face of Iran’s nuclear ambitions as the
Islamic republic’s chief negotiator, is running for president on
his record of defying global pressure to curtail the program.  Varco to Honghua Vying for $9 Billion of  Russia  Oil Rigs: Energy  Russia’s thirst for modern rigs able to drill in shale oil
deposits heralds a $9 billion bonanza for manufacturers
including National Oilwell Varco Inc. of the U.S. and  China ’s
Honghua Group.  Power Market Rebound Fades for Exelon on Lower Auction Prices  A bellwether power market auction that helps set long-term
electricity prices in 13 U.S. states shows the natural gas glut
may stifle a profit boost generators had expected from retiring
coal plants.  OTHER MARKETS  Stocks Drop With Commodities on Fed Concern as Yen Strengthens  Stocks fell, trimming a 12th consecutive monthly gain in
Europe, amid concern the Federal Reserve will reduce debt
purchases as the economy recovers. Commodities slid as the
International Monetary Fund cut China’s growth forecast, while
the yen strengthened and dollar weakened.  Yen Climbs as Drop in Risk Appetite Fuels Haven Bid; Krona Gains  The yen strengthened against all except one of its 16 most-traded counterparts as investors sought refuge amid a drop in
risk appetite that sent stocks and commodities lower.  Euro Bulls Rule in Germany Amid Merkel-Draghi Aplomb: Currencies  German companies are more bullish on the euro’s prospects
over the next three months than at any time since February,
showing confidence in the ability of the European Central Bank’s
interest-rate cuts to spur the economy.  Nasdaq Agrees to Pay $10 Million to Settle SEC Facebook Case (3)  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. agreed to pay $10 million to settle
Securities and Exchange Commission charges that its mishandling
of Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering last year was a
violation of securities laws.  CP Foods, JBS Said to Have Weighed Offers for Smithfield Foods  Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl and JBS SA were preparing bids
for Smithfield Foods Inc. before the U.S. company agreed to a
$4.72 billion takeover by China’s Shuanghui International
Holdings Ltd., said people familiar with the matter.  China Steelmakers Challenge Platts Iron Ore Pricing: Commodities  Chinese steelmakers, the world’s biggest iron ore buyers,
are questioning the reliability of the main industry price index
for the raw material provided by Platts, citing concerns about
transparency and trading volume.  Bachmann Won’t Run for Re-Election to U.S. House in 2014 (3)  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann , a former Republican
presidential hopeful and a leader of the anti-tax Tea Party
movement, said she won’t run for re-election, retiring from the
House amid an ethics inquiry.  Biden Circles Xi as U.S. Duels China for Latin America Ties (2)  The competition between the world’s two biggest economies
for influence in Latin America is on display this week as U.S.
Vice President Joe Biden visits Rio de Janeiro today near the
end of a three-nation tour of the region with Chinese President
Xi Jinping close behind.  SPORTS  England Draws 1-1 in First Soccer Game With Ireland Since 1991  England rallied for a 1-1 home draw against Ireland in the
first soccer match between the neighboring countries in 22
years.  ENERGY PRICES  Last     Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----    ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       92.88   -0.25  -0.3  Nymex     July
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    102.43   -1.80  -1.7    Ice     July
Gasoil ($/Ton)         865.75  -11.00  -1.3    Ice     July
Gasoline (c/Gal)       279.05   -1.26  -0.4  Nymex     June
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    4.18   -0.01  -0.2  Nymex     July
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    102.01   -2.22  -2.1    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            286.40   -0.55  -0.2  Nymex     June  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            83.66  -0.5
Gold ($/Oz)          1,391.80  +0.9
MSCI World Index     1,489.44  -0.5  Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  