-- OPEC May Crude Output Rises in Survey Led by Saudi Arabia
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-05-30T20:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/opec-may-crude-output-rises-in-survey-led-by-saudi-arabia.html
OPEC  crude production climbed in May
to the highest level in six months, led by a gain in Saudi
Arabia, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Output in the 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries rose 98,000 barrels, or 0.3 percent, to an average
31.034 million barrels a day this month from a revised 30.936
million in April, the survey of oil companies, producers and
analysts showed. The April total was revised lower by 12,000
barrels a day.  Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s biggest oil producer, pumped 9.35
million barrels a day this month, up 170,000 barrels from April.
It was the highest output level since November. Production in
May, July and August of 2012 reached 9.9 million barrels a day.  Fuel consumption on the Arabian Peninsula peaks in the
summer months, when high temperatures lead to increased use of
air conditioners. U.S. refineries are ending seasonal
maintenance now in preparation for the peak gasoline-demand
period, which lasts from late May until early September.  “The Saudis probably raised production in anticipation of
summer demand,” said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “You
see the Saudis as well as some Asian countries like Japan and
 India  burn a lot of oil to produce electricity in the coming
months.”  Brent crude for July settlement dropped 24 cents to end
today’s session at $102.19 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Brent is the benchmark contract for
more than half the world’s oil. West Texas Intermediate crude
for July delivery climbed 48 cents, or 0.5 percent, to settle at
$93.61 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  ‘Best Environment’  Ali al-Naimi , oil minister for Saudi Arabia, said that
current conditions are “the best environment for the market”
and that “demand is great,” on May 28 when he arrived in
Vienna to attend an OPEC meeting scheduled for tomorrow. Oil
ministers from the United Arab Emirates, Iraq, Libya and  Angola 
said there was no need for a change in policy.  “The timing of the Saudi output increase is odd,” said
Julius Walker, global energy markets strategist at UBS
Securities LLC in New York. “There may be demand for the oil
but it’s politically awkward going into an OPEC meeting.”  Angola increased output by 70,000 barrels to 1.87 million
barrels a day this month, the highest level since August and the
second-biggest gain in the survey. The BP Plc-operated PSVM
project began operating on Dec. 6 and is ramping up its output
to a target 150,000 later this year.  U.A.E. Gain  The U.A.E. bolstered output by 20,000 barrels to 2.77
million barrels a day, the highest level since September. It was
the third-biggest production increase. The Abu Dhabi National
Oil Co. is increasing shipments through a new pipeline to the
port of Fujairah, avoiding the Strait of Hormuz chokepoint.  Iran ’s production dropped 50,000 barrels a day to 2.5
million in May, the lowest level since February 1990, according
to the survey. Iran, the group’s second-biggest producer a year
ago, is now in sixth place.  Sanctions aimed at stopping the Islamic republic’s nuclear
program have hindered its ability to export crude oil. A
European Union ban on the purchase, transport, financing and
insurance of Iranian oil went into effect in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  