-- OPEC Signals Oil Near $100 Avoids Any Need to Alter Quota
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k ,   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-05-30T12:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/opec-signals-oil-near-100-avoids-any-need-to-alter-quota.html
OPEC can keep its oil output ceiling
as it is so long as  Brent crude  remains at about $100 a barrel,
according to officials from some of the group’s members.  “There is balance between demand and supply, and this is
reflected on prices, they are stable,” Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi,
oil minister for  Iraq , the group’s second-largest producer, told
reporters in Vienna today. “We don’t want any shock to the
market, the stability of prices is important for the global
economy.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
accounts for about 40 percent of global oil supply, will meet in
the Austrian capital tomorrow to discuss its production policy.
The 12-nation group is pumping more than its current target of
30 million barrels a day, helping Brent, which is used to price
more than half the world’s crude, lose 8.5 percent this year to
trade near $102 a barrel today.  The so-called OPEC basket price, which represents the
group’s export crudes, stood at $101.11 a barrel on May 28 and
has averaged $100.79 so far this month. West Texas Intermediate,
the U.S. benchmark, is trading at about $93.  “Demand is normal, I don’t see any problem,” Pedro Merizalde,  Ecuador ’s minister of non-renewable natural
resources, said in Vienna today. “If you look at the market
compared to last year, the situation is pretty much the same.”  The group will probably maintain the status quo unless
crude prices drop below $95 a barrel, Kamel al-Harami, an
independent oil analyst based in Kuwait, said by phone from
London yesterday.  Alarm Bells  “Anything below will raise the alarm bells,” said al-Harami, who is a former president of Kuwait’s Q8 brand of gas
stations in Europe and Thailand. “OPEC is very comfortable.
Prices are at the $100 region, and they are satisfied and will
have a cash surplus year for their treasuries.”  When asked today if OPEC should keep the target,  Kuwait ’s
OPEC governor, Siham Razzouqi, said “Why not?” Razzouqi is
leading her country’s delegation to Vienna after Kuwait’s oil
minister resigned earlier this week. Kuwait holds the presidency
of OPEC this year.  Ministers from Venezuela and Iran, traditionally among the
first within OPEC to call for supply cuts to boost prices,
haven’t yet spoken to reporters in Vienna. Iranian Oil Minister
Rostam Qasemi said two weeks ago that $100 is a “floor” price
for crude and levels above this are “reasonable and fair,” the
state-run Mehr news agency reported on May 13. His Venezuelan
counterpart  Rafael Ramirez  agreed May 24 that the minimum price
should be $100.  Paring Back  Curbs by  Saudi Arabia  pared OPEC output to 30.6 million
barrels a day in January, the closest to the group’s formal
target since its introduction in December 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Output has since rebounded, reaching 30.9
million barrels a day last month.  Current conditions are “the best environment for the
market” and “demand is great,” Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said when he arrived in Vienna May 28. The kingdom is
the world’s biggest crude exporter.  Angolan Oil Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos told
reporters in Vienna that OPEC should keep its group target
unchanged, saying prices are “O.K.”  Senior officials from  Angola , Saudi Arabia, Kuwait,
Ecuador, Iraq, the United Arab Emirates and  Venezuela  have
already arrived in the Austrian capital before tomorrow’s
meeting. OPEC’s other members are  Algeria , Iran,  Libya ,  Nigeria 
and Qatar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Vienna at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Vienna at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  