-- Mortgage Rates in the U.S. Climb to Highest in a Year
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-05-30T17:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/mortgage-rates-in-the-u-s-climb-to-highest-in-a-year.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  rose to their
highest levels in a year as reports showed the housing market
and economy strengthening, signaling to bond investors that the
 Federal Reserve  may reduce efforts to push down borrowing costs.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage jumped to
3.81 percent in the week ended today, from 3.59 percent, McLean,
Virginia-based  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  said in a statement. The average 15-year rate increased to 2.98 percent from 2.77 percent.  Yields (USGG10YR)  for 10-year  U.S. Treasuries  touched 2.23 percent
yesterday, the highest level since April 5, 2012, amid
speculation the Fed will reduce asset purchases. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last week that the
central bank could scale back stimulus efforts if the  employment 
outlook shows sustainable improvement. Home-loan  interest rates 
increased for a fourth week after hovering close to record lows
early this month.  “Backing off on quantitative easing sparks fears among
investors because cheap, long-term credit is good for growth,”
Barney Hartman-Glaser, assistant finance professor at  Duke
University  in Durham, North Carolina, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “At the same time, if Bernanke feels that
we don’t need cheap, long-term credit to fuel growth, then that
means we’re returning to an economy that can support itself.”  Consumer Confidence  The economy is improving as the housing market rebounds.
The Conference Board’s  consumer-confidence   index  climbed to the
highest level in more than five years in May, data from the New
York-based private research group showed. The S&P/Case-Shiller
 index  of property values in 20 cities rose 10.9 percent in the
year through March, the biggest 12-month gain since April 2006.  Contracts (USPHTMOM)  to buy previously owned U.S. homes increased 0.3
percent in April, less than economists projected, after a 1.5
percent advance in March as a limited  supply  of listings
constrained deals, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today.  U.S. mortgage applications dropped last week for a third
consecutive time. The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index fell
8.8 percent in the period ended May 24 from the prior week, with
its  refinancing  measure slumping 12.3 percent to the lowest
level of the year and its  purchasing  measure climbing 2.6
percent, the Washington-based group said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  