-- House Democrats Seek Details on Consumer Bureau Auto Loan Rules
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-05-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/house-democrats-seek-details-on-consumer-bureau-auto-loan-rules.html
Thirteen Democrats in the U.S.
Congress have asked the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for
details on how it plans to enforce new rules on discrimination
in auto lending.  In a May 28 letter to the agency, the Democrats, all
members of the House Financial Services Committee, demanded
“any and all background information” about its investigation
into alleged discrimination in the business, according to a copy
of the letter.  The group, five of whom are members of the Congressional
Black Caucus, also asked for details on the methodology the
agency is using to assess the presence of discrimination. And it
asked for additional information on how lenders will have to
comply with the rules.  “Consumers must be able to shop for credit without fear of
discriminatory practices, and the consistent enforcement of
anti-discrimination statutes is an essential part of ensuring
that consumers have access to affordable credit,” Democratic
Representative Terri Sewell of  Alabama  and 12 other members
wrote.  The letter concerns supervisory guidance the CFPB released
on March 21 that directs lenders to avoid funding discriminatory
loans made by auto dealers. The agency, created by the 2010
Dodd-Frank law, oversees banks with assets above $10 billion and
enforces the Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974.  Dealers won an exemption from the bureau’s authority under
Dodd-Frank, so the guidance concerns loans financed by lenders
but made in key respects by dealers. Auto and truck loan
originations have risen as the economy recovers from the 2008
credit crisis. They hit $89.4 billion in the fourth quarter of
2012, up 4.2 percent from the third quarter, according to the
Federal Reserve.  ‘Dealer Markup’  The CFPB rules take aim at a practice the agency refers to
as “dealer markup” and auto dealers call “dealer
participation” or “dealer-assisted finance.” In this system,
banks function as indirect lenders and allow dealers to add to
the interest rate the banks charge and pocket the difference.  Consumer groups charge the practice gives dealers an
incentive to move buyers into more-expensive loans, and that
minorities are at greater risk of this treatment.  Dealers say the markup is a reasonable price for their
services, including bringing in customers and handling
paperwork. They’ve also criticized the agency for targeting the
auto-lending market without being clear on the basis for its
decision.  Demanding Explanation  “The CFPB is refusing to share how they came to the
conclusion that dealerships have unintentionally discriminated
or why,” Damon Lester, president of the National Association of
Minority Automobile Dealers, said in an e-mailed statement.
“The CFPB is fundamentally changing the multi-billion dollar
automobile marketplace and yet the bureau is not clear on how
their actions will impact auto lending, consumers or the
economy.”  The letter’s signers also included Democratic
Representatives Joyce Beatty of  Ohio , William Lacy Clay of
Missouri, Gregory Meeks of New York and David Scott of  Georgia .
They are all members of the black caucus.  The market for auto loans is fragmented, with no lender
controlling more than 6 percent, according to data compiled by
 Experian Plc (EXPN) , the Dublin-based company that manages databases
that enable credit granting and monitoring. At the end of 2012,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
were the top lenders. Other banks among the top 20 auto lenders
include  Bank of America  Corp.,  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB) , U.S.
Bancorp,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  and  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,
according to Experian.  Some banks have already received notices from the consumer
bureau warning that they may face possible enforcement action.
Ally announced in a March 1 regulatory filing that CFPB was
investigating certain retail financing practices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  