-- Lloyds Auctions $8.7 Billion of Mortgage Bonds to Dealers
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-05-31T07:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/lloyds-auctions-8-7-billion-of-mortgage-bonds-to-four-dealers.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
largest mortgage lender, sold U.S. mortgage-backed securities
for 3.3 billion pounds ($5 billion) in cash as it tries to plug
a capital shortfall identified by regulators.  The sale will result in a pretax gain of 540 million pounds
and boost the group’s core Tier 1 capital, a measure of
financial strength, by about 1.4 billion pounds, London-based
Lloyds said in a statement today.  Bank of America  Corp.,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ,  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG and  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.
were the winning bidders.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Lloyds, the U.K.’s
largest state-owned lenders, are seeking to bolster their
balance sheets while avoiding equity sales. Lloyds auctioned the
bonds amid a U.S. housing recovery that fueled a 10.5 percent
jump in home prices in March from a year earlier, the fastest
pace in seven years, according to CoreLogic Inc.  Lloyds  advanced  0.4 percent to 62.05 pence by 8.16 a.m. in
 London . The stock has gained about 30 percent this year and is
trading above the 61 pence price at which the government says it
will break even on its 39 percent stake.  The bank said that about 170 million pounds has been sold
to Goldman Sachs for 200 million pounds in cash, generating a
pretax gain of about 30 million pounds. The transaction is
expected to be completed in the first week of June.  Financial Strength  The auction is the biggest widely marketed sale of
securitized debt since at least March 2010, according to New
York-based data-provider Empirasign. Eight of the 10 largest
auctions were sales by the Federal Reserve of debt acquired from
Bear Stearns Cos. and American International Group Inc. amid the
credit crisis.  The disposal, coupled with the sale of a second stake in
wealth manager  St. James’s Place Plc (STJ)  last week, will boost
Lloyds’s core Tier 1 capital ratio to about 8.7 percent from 8.1
percent at the end of the first quarter. The lender has said it
is seeking to increase that level to more than 9 percent by the
end of the year.  Lloyds said on May 29 that it will sell its international
private-banking business to Swiss wealth manager Union Bancaire
Privee for as much as 100 million pounds. The bank will receive
about 65 million pounds when the deal is completed and 35
million pounds over a two-year period, it said.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, Mark Lake
of Morgan Stanley, Drew Benson of Credit Suisse and Zia Ahmed of
Bank of America, all based in New York, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  