-- Palo Alto Networks Falls After Missing Sales Forecast
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-05-31T20:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/palo-alto-networks-plunges-as-sales-forecast-trails-estimates.html
Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  posted a
record decline after the maker of network security systems
issued a revenue forecast short of analysts’ estimates.  The shares  dropped  11 percent to $48.52 at the close in New
York, the steepest slump since the company’s initial public
offering in July 2012. The stock has advanced 16 percent since
going public.  Revenue in the fiscal fourth quarter ending in July will be
$106 million to $110 million, the Santa Clara, California-based
company said on a call yesterday, missing the average projection
for $113.7 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Third-quarter sales also  lagged  analysts’ predictions, the
first time Palo Alto has missed revenue estimates since selling
shares to the public in July. The company blamed “challenging”
economic conditions for a shortfall in  Europe  and among
government clients. Daniel Cummins, an analyst at B. Riley & Co.
in New York, estimates that the federal government accounts for
as much as 10 percent of Palo Alto’s revenue, while the European
region comprises 20 percent to 25 percent.  “To come in at the low end of the guidance range is kind
of a recipe for a one-day disaster for the stock,” said
Cummins, who recommends buying the shares. Still, “most of us
would expect that this won’t be repeated,” he said.  Palo Alto, co-founded in 2005 by former  Check Point
Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)  executive Nir Zuk, is going head-to-head in the network-security market with Check Point,  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  Palo Alto’s revenue is
rising  faster  than rivals as businesses seek to protect
themselves from sophisticated hacking attacks that older
security technologies have struggled to stop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  