-- Perelman Fair to M&F Worldwide Investors, Judge Rules
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-05-30T22:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/perelman-fair-to-m-f-worldwide-investors-judge-rules.html
Billionaire  Ronald Perelman  didn’t
mistreat investors in a 2011 deal designed to take his M&F
Worldwide Corp. holding company private for $250 million, a
judge concluded.  Perelman and executives of MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings
Inc., another of the financier’s holding companies, negotiated
properly with M&F Worldwide officials to acquire the remaining
57 percent of the firm for $25 per share and won a majority of
investors’ support in a shareholder vote on the deal, Delaware
Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine ruled yesterday.  Evidence showed M&F’s directors sought “in good faith to
obtain the most favorable price they could secure” for the
company’s outstanding shares, Strine said in a 67-page ruling.
He dismissed shareholders’ challenges to the “business
judgment” of M&F directors.  Christine Taylor , a spokeswoman for Perelman and MacAndrews
& Forbes, said the billionaire was pleased with Strine’s finding
that the buyout was handled properly.  “The process was meant to insure shareholders had
appropriate opportunity to evaluate the offer,” she said in an
e-mailed statement.  Disgruntled M&F investors sued Perelman as chairman of
M&F’s board, along with other company directors in Delaware in
2011, arguing the buyout was unfair.  Shareholders argued Perelman dominated M&F’s board because
MacAndrews & Forbes owned 43 percent of the holding company and
he had long-standing business relationships with fellow
directors.  Licorice Products  M&F’s subsidiaries include  Mafco Worldwide Corp. , a
producer of licorice products;  Harland Clarke Holdings Corp. ,
which makes checks and check-related products; and  Scantron
Corp ., which provides testing and assessment systems to clients
such as educational institutions.  Even though Perelman stood on both sides of the deal as a
controlling shareholder, his influence over the acquisition was
negated by the M&F board’s push to have independent directors
negotiate the deal and investors’ decision to vote to approve
it, Thomas Allingham, one of Perelman’s lawyers, argued in court
filings.  Strine agreed with Perelman’s lawyers, finding such
protections entitled directors to rebuff challenges to their
business judgment in cases involving buyouts by controlling
shareholders.  Investors are entitled to “this potent combination of
procedural protections” when a controlling shareholder seeks to
buy their stock, Strine added.  The case is In RE MFW Shareholders Litigation, CA No. 6566,
 Delaware  Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 