-- PetroChina Said to Sell Stakes at Home for Cash to Spend Abroad
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-05-30T02:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/petrochina-said-to-sell-stakes-at-home-for-cash-to-spend-abroad.html
PetroChina Co. (857) , the world’s second
biggest publicly traded oil company, is set to sell minority
stakes in oil and gas fields as well as gas pipeline projects in
western China to raise cash for overseas acquisitions, said a
person familiar with the plans.  Some agreements may be announced in the next few months,
said the person who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. The pipelines offer near double-digit
investment returns, the person said without identifying the
assets. Talks are taking place with several parties and their
investments will be in the billions of yuan, the person said,
declining to be more specific or identify who the company is in
discussions with.  PetroChina needs more private capital in the company’s
domestic oil and gas businesses to relieve its financing burden,
chairman Zhou Jiping said on May 23 in Beijing. It had 505
billion  yuan  ($82 billion) in interesting-bearing debt at the
end of 2012, from 350 billion yuan in 2011, according to its
annual report published in April.  “PetroChina can use the cash to buy more assets or expand
its overseas projects that over time will provide higher returns
than what domestic projects can currently provide,” said Simon Powell, an oil and gas analyst at CLSA Ltd. Hong Kong. Of
course, what the market will be looking at is what price
PetroChina can get for the assets, he said.  The company’s profit fell to 115 billion yuan in 2012 from
133 billion yuan in 2011 and 140 billion yuan in 2010.  Capital
spending  is forecast to rise to 355 billion yuan in 2013 from
352 billion yuan in 2012 and 284 billion yuan in 2011.  ‘Unpleasant Choices’  PetroChina’s debt to equity ratio was about 10 percent in
2007, the same level as oil explorer Cnooc Ltd., though much
lower than around 60 percent at China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp., according to a research note by Neil Beveridge, Hong
Kong-based head analyst for oil and gas in the Asia-Pacific
region at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  The ratio surged to 47 percent by the end of March and is
expected to break 50 percent mark by 2015, Beveridge said in the
note published on May 2.  “PetroChina will increasingly have to make the choice
between growth, dividend or raising additional capital to fund
growth,” Beveridge said. “Give the infrastructure investment
over the next decade on gas, pursuit of overseas growth and
unconventional growth, it seems inevitable Petrochina will have
to make some unpleasant choices ahead.”  Go West  Sales of stakes in western  China , which holds the bulk of
the company’s oil reserves, would follow Zhou’s comments on May
23, when he said PetroChina would offer up 600 million tons, or
about 4.4 billion barrels of oil-equivalent reserves in its
north and northeast oilfields for private investment.  Based on 30-35 percent oil recovery rate from proven
reserves and a $100 a barrel crude price, the assets in the
north could be worth as much as $153.3 billion, according to the
person. Minority stakes from 20 percent to 40 percent in those
fields would value them at between $30 billion to $61 billion,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  PetroChina reported proven undeveloped reserves in China of
9.6 billion barrels of oil equivalent in 2012, according to a
filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in April.  Only about 600 million barrels of those reserves are in the
Daqing oilfield in Northeast China, while most of the reserves
are in Shaanxi, Sichuan and Xinjiang in western China, according
to the filing.  Home & Away  PetroChina and its parent China National Petroleum Corp.
have announced plans to spend about $7 billion in the past six
months on assets from  Mozambique  to  Australia , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  That compares with less than $1 billion deals announced
during the same period of time a year earlier.  Meantime, the company opened its third West-East gas
transmission pipeline to outside investment last year. It spent
32.5 billion yuan on a 52 percent stake, while the National
Council for Social Security Fund, Beijing Guolian Energy
Industry Investment Fund, and Shanghai-based  Baoshan Iron and
Steel  Co. and its parent each agreed to invest 10 billion yuan
for a 16 percent stake.  PetroChina will soon set up a joint pipeline business unit,
inviting private and other investment into its first west-east
pipeline project and some assets in western China, Zhou said on
May 23, without providing details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  