-- Philippine Stocks Slump as Valuations Outweigh GDP: Manila Mover
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-05-30T07:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/philippine-stocks-slump-as-valuations-outweigh-gdp-manila-mover.html
Philippine  stocks  sank the most
since September 2011 as concern valuations are excessive
overshadowed government data showing the economy grew in the
first quarter at the fastest pace in three years.  Ayala Land Inc. (ALI) , the nation’s biggest developer, slumped
5.7 percent, the biggest contributer to the index’s loss, while
SM Investments Corp., the nation’s biggest publicly-listed
company, fell the most since August.  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the
country’s largest food and drinks company, slumped to the lowest
level since November 2010 before its removal from the MSCI
 Philippines  Index.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index tumbled 3.8 percent to
6,953.35 at the close. The gauge has fallen 1.7 percent this
month, its first monthly loss since August. The index’s 30-day
 volatility , a measure of price swings, rose to the highest level
since June 2012. Government data showed today that first-quarter
gross domestic product expanded 7.8 percent, the fastest pace
since the second quarter of 2010.  “There’s a disconnect between the economy and the
valuation of the market,” Rico Gomez, who helps manage who
helps manage $2.8 billion at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. in
 Manila , said by phone today. “While overseas investors say they
like our economic fundamentals, they find valuations to be
stretched.”  Accelerating economic growth, a strengthening peso and two
upgrades in the nation’s sovereign debt rating to investment
grade this year drove the benchmark index to a record close of
7,392.20 on May 15. That pushed valuations to 20.8 times
projected 12-month earnings, the highest since Bloomberg began
tracking the data in 2006.  Weak Peso  Overheating risks have risen “significantly” in terms of
construction growth, which may turn “bubbly,” RBS Plc analysts
Vaninder Singh and Sanjay Mathur wrote in a note to clients. RBS
now sees the economy growing at 6.9 percent this year, up from
the previous prediction of 6.6 percent, they wrote.  The gauge has lost 5.9 percent since May 15 and trades at
19.5 times forecast profits, compared with the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index’s 10.3 times. The Philippines’ multiple was at
20.3 a month earlier, the highest since at least 2006.  The peso’s depreciation and the strengthening dollar are
also driving equity losses, according to Alex Pomento, a Manila-based strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd.  “One of the premises for this year’s rally is continued
peso strengthening,” Pomento said today. “The currency is
weakening, so we are seeing some withdrawals.”  The peso has lost 3 percent this month, heading for the
biggest decline since June 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Investors are taking profits on Philippine peso assets,”
said Julian Tarrobago, who helps manage at least $1 billion as
portfolio manager at Manila-based ATR Kim Eng Asset Management
Inc. “This is a healthy correction and nothing surprising given
valuations and the performance of the peso. You’d rather have
this kind instead of a market that keeps rising otherwise you’d
be in for a deeper correction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  