-- Phil Jackson Says Knicks’ Anthony Should Read His ‘Sacred Hoops’
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-05-31T04:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/phil-jackson-says-carmelo-anthony-should-read-sacred-hoops-.html
Phil Jackson , who won a record 11
National Basketball Association championships as a coach, says
 Carmelo Anthony  of the New York Knicks would benefit from
reading his book “Sacred Hoops.”  Jackson, who coached the Michael Jordan-led  Chicago Bulls 
to six titles and the Shaquille O’Neal- and Kobe Bryant-led  Los
Angeles Lakers  to five, throughout his career has given players
books as a teaching tool.  “It’s a book in which I address the fact that  Michael
Jordan ’s a leading scorer, he’s got the capability of being a
terrific scorer, but that he’s got to get his other teammates
involved and he’s got to make it a team game,” Jackson said
during an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Taking Stock” with
Pimm Fox and  Carol Massar .  “Sacred Hoops” was published in 1995. The Bulls, who won
championships from 1991-93, won another three in a row beginning
with the 1995-96 season.  Anthony, who turned 29 two days ago, led the NBA in scoring
this season at 28.7 points a game. His Knicks were eliminated by
the Indiana Pacers in the second round of the playoffs. Anthony,
who attempted the third-most shots in the league this season
behind Bryant and  Russell Westbrook , can become a free agent
after next season.  Jackson called Anthony, who as a freshman led Syracuse
University to the 2003 national championship, a “terrific
player.”  “He’s one step away from getting there and having that
opportunity,” Jackson said, referring to competing for an NBA
title. “Having had it as an NCAA player, it’s something he must
crave.”  Sun Tzu  Jackson once gave Bryant, who frequently clashed with
teammates, Sun Tzu’s “The Art of War” to illustrate to the
former Most Valuable Player that the general cannot enjoy perks
withheld from the rank and file without risking the alienation
of those he’s attempting to lead.  The 67-year-old Jackson left the Lakers after the 2010-11
NBA season and says he’d like the opportunity to run a team’s
front office. He’s advising the Detroit Pistons on their
coaching search.  Jackson has written several books, including “Maverick:
More Than a Game;” “The Last Season: A Team in Search of Its
Soul;” and “Eleven Rings: The Soul of Success,” which was
released earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  