-- Poet LLC Asks Court to Overturn California Low-Carbon Fuel Rule
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   R o b e r t   B u r n s o n
-- 2013-05-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/poet-llc-asks-court-to-overturn-california-low-carbon-fuel-rule.html
Poet LLC, the second-biggest U.S.
ethanol producer, will try to persuade a  California  appeals
court the state’s low-carbon fuel standard should be thrown out 
because its environmental effects weren't adequately studied.  Poet, based in  Sioux Falls ,  South Dakota , lost its lower-court challenge to the  California Air Resources Board ’s
requirement that companies selling transportation fuel in the
state reduce their product’s “carbon intensity” by 10 percent
in the next seven years.  The rules, which classify out-of-state corn-based fuels as
more polluting than those produced in the state, could
jeopardize Poet’s ability to tap California’s billion-dollar
vehicle fuel market. Scuttling the standard would complicate
California’s efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to
1990 levels by 2020 and push the state to place stricter caps
on carbon emissions for businesses.  The three-judge panel in Fresno, California, hearing Poet’s
request today to overturn the trial court’s decision has
indicated it’s considering whether to rule that California air-quality regulators violated state law by approving the fuel
standard in 2009 before completing an environmental review.  Poet says the standard should no longer be enforced, an
outcome that state lawyers allege would hurt the environment and
disrupt California’s first-in-the-nation economy-wide cap-and-trade program.  State regulators “put the proverbial ‘cart before the
horse,’” Poet said in a court filing. Leaving the regulation in
place pending review “would only serve to leave the cart in
front of the horse.”  Annual Emissions  The low-carbon fuel standard is projected to reduce annual
 carbon emissions  in California by 16 million metric tons by
2020, and is a critical component of California’s 2006 global
warming law, which aims to reduce emissions to 1990 levels by
2020.  Fuel sales generate credits or deficits for companies,
depending on the carbon intensity of their product. Companies
subject to the carbon regulations can use credits to comply with
standards or sell them to other companies, and those with
deficits must purchase credits to meet standards.  Fuel providers have been complying with the standard since
January 2011, introducing more low-carbon fuel into the market,
attracting a price premium for their low-carbon fuel, and
accumulating and trading credits, California Deputy Attorney
General Mark Poole said in court filings.  “Disruption of this well established market and smoothly
functioning state program is a powerful consideration in favor
of preserving the status quo,” Poole wrote.  Ethanol Producers  The Fresno court isn’t expected to issue a ruling today.
The Poet lawsuit is one of two by ethanol producers challenging
the California regulation, which complements the state’s cap-and-trade program.  The standards assign a higher carbon intensity score to
ethanol produced in the Midwest, because while the fuel is
chemically and physically identical to ethanol produced in
California, corn farming, transportation and processing produces
more emissions, California officials say.  Ethanol producers won a federal judge’s ruling striking
down portions of the standard on grounds that they’re unfair to
out-of-state producers and illegally regulate businesses outside
of California. The air resources board is seeking to reverse the
decision. The federal appeals court hasn’t yet ruled.  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  is the leading ethanol producer.  The Fresno case is Poet LLC v. California Air Resources
Board, F064045, California Court of Appeal, Fifth Appellate
District, Fresno.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  