-- Queen Visits Barracks as Dead Soldier’s Family Urges Calm
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-31T16:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/queen-to-visit-woolwich-barracks-scene-of-soldier-murder.html
Queen Elizabeth II visited Woolwich
Barracks in  London , near where a soldier was killed last week,
as his family appealed for calm amid rising tensions over the
terrorist attack.  The monarch, who expressed concern at the killing last
week, had already been scheduled to go to the barracks in the
southeast of the capital before her visit was given additional
resonance by the murder. One of the roles of the British royal
family is to offer comfort in times of crisis. The queen met
military personnel connected with the dead soldier, Lee Rigby,
and involved in the response to the killing in private before
having lunch in the sergeant’s mess, Buckingham Palace said.  In the wake of an increase in attacks on Muslims following
the murder, Rigby’s family issued a statement urging respect for
his memory. The anti-immigrant British National Party has
organized a demonstration in London this weekend and members of
the anti-Islamic English Defence League have clashed with
police.  “Lee would not want people to use his name as an excuse to
carry out attacks against others,” Rigby’s family said in a
statement e-mailed today by the  Ministry of Defence . “Lee loved
life and he loved people. He had many friends from different
walks of life -- some with different religious beliefs and
cultures. But this made no difference to Lee -- he always
treated others with the greatest of respect.”  Mosque Attacks  There have been 212 “hate incidents” against Muslims and
11 attacks on mosques reported to the helpline of Faith Matters,
a non-profit organization that works to improve interfaith
relations, since Rigby, 25, was killed. The incidents have
averaged more than 26 a day, compared with a normal average of
between four and six.  “Some of them are targeted: very focused, very aggressive
attacks,” Faith Matters said in a  statement  on its website.
“There also seems to be significant online activity, suggesting
coordination of incidents and attacks against institutions or
places where Muslims congregate.”  One of the two suspects in the murder was released from a
hospital and taken into custody at a London police station. The
28-year-old man, identified by the BBC as Michael Adebolajo, was
shot by police at the scene of the attack on May 22.  The other murder suspect, Michael Adebowale, appeared at a
London court yesterday. Adebowale, 22, didn’t enter a plea to
charges of murder and possession of a revolver at Westminster
Magistrates’ Court. He was remanded into custody and his case
was transferred to a higher court for trial.  Inquest Testimony  A counterterrorism detective told the inquest into Rigby’s
death today that the two suspects who attacked him encouraged
bystanders to watch. A car swerved off the road to hit Rigby,
Grant Mallon said. After stabbing him, the suspects moved his
body into the middle of the road and asked people to look, he
said.  Deputy Coroner Lorna Tagliavini adjourned the hearing in
London to give police more time to conclude their investigation.
Officers conducting the probe arrested two men, age 42 and 46,
in the capital today on suspicion of being involved in the
supply of illegal firearms.  Rigby, father of a 2-year-old son, was a drummer in the 2nd
Battalion of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers. He served as a
machine gunner in Cyprus and then in 2009 as a member of a fire
support group in Helmand province,  Afghanistan .  The queen reviewed a guard of honor on horseback from the
 King’s Troop Royal Horse Artillery , which moved to Woolwich from
northwest London in February 2012. Since moving, they have had a
high profile in the area, with horses regularly exercised on
local roads.  Abu Nusaybah, who was arrested last week after appearing on
BBC television’s “Newsnight” program to discuss the killing,
was charged today with encouraging terrorism and disseminating
terrorist publications, the Crown Prosecution Service said in a
statement. The charges against Nusaybah, 30, who said on
“Newsnight” that he was a friend of Adebolajo, aren’t related
to the Woolwich attack, according to the CPS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  