-- Rally Ending as Bernanke Exit Seen Matter of Time: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-05-30T06:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/rally-ending-as-bernanke-exit-seen-matter-of-time-turkey-credit.html
The biggest emerging-market bond
rally is showing signs of ending amid speculation the U.S.
Federal Reserve is moving closer to phasing out unprecedented
stimulus measures.  Turkey ’s two-year  lira bonds  plunged the most in more than
four years yesterday, sending the yield as much as 35 basis
points higher before closing up 26 basis points at 5.52 percent.
The yield on 2023 bonds sold in January by the Treasury in
Ankara rose 11 basis points to 3.71 percent, extending its five-day increase to 40 basis points and taking it 156 basis points
above 10-year U.S. Treasuries, compared with 122 a week ago.  The sell-off comes as signs of a U.S. recovery fueled
speculation that Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke will trim purchases
of $85 billion a month in Treasury and mortgage debt. The steps
were designed to support the world’s largest economy by putting
downward pressure on interest rates. Turkey has been a prime
beneficiary, as abundant U.S. liquidity whetted risk appetite
just as the country clinched its first investment-grade ratings
in 18 years.  “This Fed exit talk is serious and the more people talk
about it, the more they will sell Turkey,” Isik Okte, a
strategist for the investment unit of state-run lender  Turkiye
Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “U.S.
economic data is good, so the thinking is ’let’s sell.’”  Confidence Data  U.S.  consumer confidence  climbed to a five-year high, data
showed on May 28, while a measure of property values had the
biggest 12-month gain since April 2006. The U.S. gross domestic
product probably rose at a 2.5 percent annualized rate in the
first quarter, the Commerce Department will say today,
confirming an April 26 release, according to the median estimate
of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bernanke and some colleagues disagree about when to curtail
the central bank’s extra measures, also known as quantitative
easing. Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser called this
month for reducing purchases at the Fed’s next meeting in June,
while St. Louis Fed chief James Bullard said on May 23 he wants
to continue the current pace as long as falling  inflation (TUCPIY)  is a
concern. Bernanke stressed last week that a premature exit risks
hampering growth.  Inflection Point  “Markets are starting to price what will be one of the
most important inflection points of the past few years: the
early stages of the removal of unprecedented policy stimulus
provided by the Federal Reserve,” Michael Gavin, emerging-markets strategist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, said in
an e-mailed report May 28. “Market movements are saying the
Fed’s exit is now more ‘when’ than ‘if’.”  Investors concerned that the Fed will reverse its easing
should consider taking short positions, betting on a decline in
risky assets that have benefited most from global liquidity,
Gavin said, citing Turkish equities as an example. Emerging-market currencies will probably also remain weak, with nations
carrying large current-account deficits such as Turkey being
harder hit, UBS analysts including Bhanu Baweja said in a report
the same day.  Turkey will publish  trade balance  data for April on May 31.
The deficit probably widened to $7.8 billion in the month,
according to the average estimate of five economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Inflation data for May will be announced on June 3.
The rate in April was 6.13 percent, above the yield on two-year
Turkish notes.  Global Moves  Any future move in Turkish rates is “hard to predict since
it almost wholly depends on global moves,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief
economist for central and eastern Europe, the Middle East and
 Africa  at Morgan Stanley in  London , said by e-mail yesterday.
“At negative real rates investors would find it hard to justify
keeping sizable positions, let alone taking new ones.”  Turkish two-year bond yields could rise above 6 percent
should the yield on U.S. 10-year Treasuries increase to 2.4
percent, according to Ali Cakiroglu, a strategist at HSBC Asset
Management in Istanbul. The U.S. yield was at 2.15 percent at
7:13 p.m. yesterday in Istanbul after earlier reaching 2.23
percent, the highest in 13 months.  The lira gained 0.1 percent to 1.8600 at 9:05 a.m.,
bringing its decline this month to 3.6 percent. The currency has
been the second-worst performer among 10 major  emerging markets 
since May 16, when Turkey was upgraded to investment grade at
Moody’s Investors Service. That confirmed its ranking after
Fitch Ratings gave Turkey the same certification in November.  The upgrades removed a key driver for Turkish gains after
helping to drive a 387 basis-point decline in benchmark bond
yields over the past 12 months, Cakiroglu from HSBC said. The
decline was the biggest among 16 major emerging markets with
two-year debt tracked by Bloomberg.  “All the good news has already been priced and we are back
to basics,” Cakiroglu said. “Further correction is possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  