-- Range Anxiety Frustrating E-Cars With Charger Disconnect
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-05-31T14:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/range-anxiety-frustrating-e-cars-with-charger-disconnect.html
Electric vehicles  are slowly catching
on. Now, if only car charging stations could keep up.  About 200,000 EVs, including plug-in hybrids, travel the
world these days, almost half of them in the U.S. The best-selling model, with about 62,000 on the road, is  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201) ’s Leaf, which has a range of about 75 miles (120
kilometers).  Will Beckett, a technology consultant in Aptos,  California ,
uses a Leaf to run errands and visit clients, and recharges in
his garage with electricity generated from rooftop solar panels.
“I plug in at home 95 percent of the time,” he said. A full
charge costs him about $1.50.  Beckett, like many drivers, is occasionally afflicted by
“range anxiety,” the fear that he’ll run out of juice before
getting home. That’s why he had a charger installed at his
mother’s home 50 miles to the north in  Palo Alto .  For those longing to travel extended distances, the
presence of a nascent public EV-charging network is providing
reassurance -- and frustration. Thanks in part to startups such
as ChargePoint Inc.,  Ecotality Inc. (ECTY)  and  Car Charging Group Inc. (CCGI) ,
stations are beginning to appear in store parking lots and at
standalone kiosks.  The posts are about the size of a regular gasoline pump and
outfitted with one or two plugs. Close to 40 percent of the
almost 15,000 that have cropped up across the U.S. are open to
the public, according to the U.S. Energy Department. The rest
are at private homes or businesses that control access.  Elon Musk’s  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  said yesterday said it will
triple its network this quarter to more than two dozen stations.
It plans to  expand  further and by the end of the year, drivers
of its Model S sedan will be able to drive from New York to  Los
Angeles . Tesla shares slipped 0.7 percent to $104.24 at 10:40
a.m. in New York. They have tripled in value this year.  Payments Snarled  The biggest frustration for drivers is that the industry
lacks a universal payments system. Drivers pulling into
commercial stations must use cards embedded with radio-frequency
identification chips to activate the post and pay. But each
network requires a different card.  “We don’t need people walking around with five RFID
cards,” said Michael Farkas, chief executive officer of Car
Charging, which has locations in 20 states and the  District of
Columbia .  A universal system, or something approaching it, may emerge
as the fragmented industry consolidates. Ecotality and
ChargePoint, both based in California, announced in March that
they’re combining their networks and eventually will cover an
estimated 90 percent of the U.S. market. The integration may be
finished by early 2014, said Ecotality CEO Ravi Brar.  Companies Competing  Other companies are jostling for profits and real estate. A
Houston-based unit of  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , eVgo, has built almost 40
stations in  Texas . Subscription to the service costs $39 to $89
a month, depending on a contract that may include installing a
charger at home.  “We’re trying to create an EV ecosystem,” said Arun
Banskota, eVgo’s president. “Our plan is to grow the network
along with the scale of EVs.”  Ecotality had a head start. It has received $115 million in
grants from the U.S. government since 2009 to deploy more than
13,000 stations and has completed 80 percent of that goal. The
San Francisco-based company recently signed a deal to put
chargers in front of 225  Kroger Co. (KR)  grocery stores. Customers
pay $1 to $2 an hour to power up.  Besides Tesla, Nissan is also investing in infrastructure
to support current customers and win new ones. In February,
Nissan announced a partnership with eVgo to install 500 rapid-charge stations in the U.S. The systems can mostly recharge a
car’s battery in 30 minutes, something that takes four to eight
hours with conventional, or Level 2, chargers.  Tesla’s Expansion  Tesla’s network offers free, high-speed charging, only to
drivers of his company’s cars. The systems can mostly charge a
car in about 20 minutes and are partly powered with photovoltaic
panels from  SolarCity Corp. (SCTY) , another of his companies. Chargers
may each cost as much as $300,000, Musk said on a conference
call yesterday. A basic, Level 2, post costs about $10,000.  Demand for public charging stations would be stronger if
drivers knew where to find them and could power up with a single
card, said Andrew Hudgins, project leader for Clean Cities, an
Energy Department program that provides research and data on
charging posts.  “There are just so many changes right now that it’s hard
for me to say how many RFIDs are there,” said Hudgins, whose
unit is based in Golden,  Colorado . The combination of Ecotality
and ChargePoint is a step in the right direction, he said.  ‘Good Experience’  “We understand why everyone at the start was trying to
build out their own portion of the market and say, ‘We can do
this better than anyone else, so you should go with our
network,’” said Hudgins. But having more than a dozen networks
“is not a good experience for anybody, and it’s going to
curtail growth.”  Clean Cities programmers are developing a mobile-device
app, scheduled to debut next year, that will offer real-time
data on every charging station in the U.S.  “I’ve spoken to people at conferences who are saying, ‘I’m
really getting tired of having six different apps on my phone,
and trying to jump between each of those to see what’s
available,” Hudgins said. “Joining together, so people can use
those stations regardless of the manufacturer or network, is
what’s really needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  