-- RBC Joins CIBC Posting Profit Gains on Canadian Lending
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-30T20:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/rbc-joins-cibc-posting-profit-gains-on-canadian-lending.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
largest lender, and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce posted
higher second-quarter profits amid gains in domestic consumer
lending and a decline in provisions for bad loans.  Profit for the period ended April 30 rose 26 percent to
C$1.94 billion ($1.88 billion), or C$1.27 a share, from C$1.53
billion, or 99 cents, a year earlier, Royal Bank said today in a
statement. Canadian Imperial, the country’s fifth-largest bank,
raised its dividend after posting an 8 percent increase in
profit to C$876 million, or C$2.12 a share, from C$811 million,
or C$1.90.  Both Toronto-based banks benefited from profit growth in
domestic retail banking even as Canadians reduce borrowing amid
a consumer-lending slowdown. Royal Bank’s domestic personal and
commercial banking profit jumped 11 percent to C$1.04 billion
from a year earlier, while CIBC’s retail and business banking
rose 8.6 percent.  “Consumer lending hasn’t slowed yet,” Kash Pashootan, a
portfolio manager at First Avenue Advisory of Raymond James
Ltd., said in a phone interview. “We need to see consumer debt
stabilize before we can say loan growth has peaked, but the
banks are still milking the rise.”  Royal Bank earned C$1.31 a share excluding some items,
according to the statement, missing the C$1.32  average estimate 
of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. CIBC’s adjusted profit was
C$2.12 a share, the lender said, beating by five cents the
 average estimate  of 14 analysts.  Loan Reserves  CIBC fell 1.5 percent to C$79.22 at 4:10 p.m. in Toronto
trading, the most since March 26, and Royal Bank declined 1.8
percent to C$62.84, the  worst performer  today on the eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index.  Royal Bank set aside C$288 million for bad loans, down 17
percent from a year earlier. CIBC reserved C$265 million in
provisions, 14 percent less than the same period last year.  Royal Bank’s results were also helped by contributions from
buying out partner Banque Internationale a Luxembourg SA in
their RBC Dexia Investor Services joint venture in July, and its
Feb. 1 takeover of the Canadian auto-financing and deposit
business of  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)   Canadian banks, ranked the world’s soundest for the past
five years by the Geneva-based World Economic Forum, are facing
a slowdown in domestic consumer lending as the housing market
cools and Canadians are urged to curb borrowing.  Investment Banking  Household debt rose to a record 165 percent of disposable
income at the end of last year, according to Statistics Canada.
The International Monetary Fund last month cut its 2013 growth
forecast for Canada to 1.5 percent, the slowest among Group of
20 countries outside Europe and down from a 2 percent estimate
in October.  Bank of Montreal yesterday reported results that included a
0.7 percent decline in domestic banking, hurt by higher costs
and lower net interest margins. Toronto-Dominion Bank,  Canada ’s
second-largest lender, said May 23 that domestic consumer-banking profit rose 4.8 percent, while National Bank of Canada
had a 1.8 percent increase in consumer lending. Bank of Nova
Scotia reported a 19 percent surge in Canadian banking profit,
aided by its C$3.1 billion takeover of ING Groep NV’s Canadian
operations.  Personal and commercial-banking profit at Royal Bank, which
included Caribbean operations, rose 12 percent to C$1.06 billion
from a year earlier, helped by lower provisions and C$12 million
of earnings from the Ally acquisition.  ‘Hard Work’  “While the Canadian personal-lending market is slowing
down there is still some growth, we’re still picking up
volume,” Janice Fukakusa, chief financial officer, said in an
interview. “You see the results of a lot of hard work around
looking at productivity and making sure our spending doesn’t get
ahead of our revenue growth.”  Investor and treasury services posted profit of C$67
million, compared with a year-earlier loss of C$121 million tied
to costs from the RBC Dexia deal.  Insurance earnings rose 9.9 percent to C$166 million while
wealth-management profit increased 6.1 percent to C$225 million.
RBC Capital Markets, the firm’s investment-banking unit,
reported profit of C$386 million, up 4 percent from a year
earlier.  “With wealth management and capital market performances
lackluster, focus will be on retail banking, and domestic in
particular, which is also not likely to be warmly received by
the market,” John Aiken, an analyst with Barclays Plc, said of
RBC’s results in a note to clients.  Raises Dividend  CIBC also reported gains in investment banking, with profit
from its wholesale unit surging 51 percent to C$198 million.
Wealth-management earnings rose 16 percent to C$92 million from
a year earlier.  The bank raised its dividend 2.1 percent to 96 cents a
share, joining Montreal-based National Bank as the only other
lender in the quarter to raise its quarterly payout.  CIBC continues to negotiate with Aimia Inc. on its Aeroplan
card partnership and is considering alternatives if the deal
doesn’t go through, Chief Executive Officer Gerald McCaughey
said on a conference call after reporting earnings. The bank
said it’s spending more than C$50 million over four quarters to
create an alternative card if the agreement isn’t renewed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  