-- Tribeca Said Near Deal to Buy London’s Old Spitalfields
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-05-30T12:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/tribeca-said-near-deal-to-buy-london-s-old-spitalfields.html
Tribeca Holdings Ltd. is close to
buying  London ’s Old Spitalfields Market on behalf of an
undisclosed party in what would be the city’s largest retail
investment this year, according to two people with knowledge of
the talks.  The buyer will pay more than 100 million pounds ($152
million) for the property, said one of the people. Both of them
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
Tribeca, managed by Irish investor Aidan Brooks, advises high-net-worth family offices in  New York  and London.  Old Spitalfields Market, a five-minute walk from Liverpool
Street rail station, was put up for sale by Ballymore Properties
Ltd. earlier this year. Ballymore, based in Dublin, and Tribeca
declined to comment.  The Spitalfields area, formerly a slum, has seen rising
values and renovations in last several years because of its
proximity to the  City of London  financial district, the
technology hub known as Silicon Roundabout and the nightlife of
the Shoreditch neighborhood. Old Spitalfields Market is one of
London’s top 10 visitor attractions, according to its website.  “It’s more innovative than the general high street or
other core markets that you might find elsewhere,” Honor
Westnedge, a senior retail analyst at Verdict Research Ltd.,
said by phone. “Spitalfields is a very good mix of accessories,
fashion and food.”  Retailers that sell to more-affluent customers including
Barbour, Agnes B and Hackett now have stores at the market where
goods have changed hands since the 1200s, according to the City
of London borough.  The fruit, vegetable and flower market was taken over by
the borough in 1920 and was relocated to Leyton in east London
in 1991, according to the financial district’s website. Old
Spitalfields Market was developed by Ballymore in 2006 to
include stores, restaurants and traditional market stalls.  The largest retail investment by value in London this year
was the sale of a building on  Bond Street  to  Prada SpA (1913)  in
February for about 87.5 million pounds, according to data
compiled by broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  