-- Trina Rises in Solar Rally as Spreadtrum Jumps: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-05-30T21:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/trina-rallies-on-solar-upgrades-as-chalco-jumps-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks rebounded in New York
as  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  climbed after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
upgraded U.S. solar companies, while  Spreadtrum Communications
Inc. (SPRD)  surged on an improved industry outlook.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. advanced 0.6 percent to 92.10
yesterday. Trina,  China ’s third-largest panel manufacturer,
rebounded from an 11 percent plunge while mobile-chip maker
Spreadtrum jumped the most in two months.  Aluminum Corp. of
China Ltd. , known as Chalco, climbed the most in three weeks as
prices of the metal surged.  Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp. (981)  retreated after its stock was downgraded.  The Bloomberg Industries Large Solar Index, which tracks 17
solar energy companies, has jumped 38 percent this month and
been up 77 percent for the year. Goldman analysts said in a note
yesterday solar companies’ earnings backdrop is stabilizing, and
raised the stock ratings for American companies including  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR)  A better-than-estimated sales forecast by Avago
Technologies Ltd., a Singapore-based chipmaker, boosted shares
of peers including Shanghai-based Spreadtrum.  “The underlying reason for this round of solar rally is
that we’ve started to enter a phase of consolidation,” Joshua
Giordano, a managing director at Energistics LLC. in New York,
which advises investors trading in energy companies, said by
phone yesterday. “Once we started to sort out who the winners
and losers will be, the market became comfortable enough to
start reinflating.”  ETF Advances  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., gained 0.4 percent in New York
to $36.74, rising for a second time in three days. The Standard
and Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4 percent to 1,654.41 as weaker-than-estimated data on economic growth and jobless claims
boosted speculation the  Federal Reserve  will maintain stimulus.  Trina, based in Changzhou in China’s Jiangsu province,
climbed 2.3 percent to $6.18 after surging as much as 6 percent
earlier. Goldman sees “solid” growth and earnings visibility
in the solar sector into 2014, analysts led by Brian Lee said in
the report yesterday. They raised their recommendation on Tempe,
Arizona-based First Solar, the largest U.S. manufacturer by
shipments, to buy from neutral, and that for SunPower Corp., the
second-largest, to neutral from sell.  Earlier this week, Deutsche Bank AG said the outlook of the
renewable  energy industry  is improving due to “strong” demand
from  Japan , the U.S., China and other  emerging markets  while
supply cuts have accelerated.  Spreadtrum Surges  Spreadtrum, a Shanghai-based chip designer for mobile
devices, gained 7.3 percent to $19.88 in  New York , jumping the
most since March 20. Trading volume on the stock was more than
twice the daily average over the past three months, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Avago reported on May 29 higher-than-estimated earnings and
revenue for its second quarter ended May 5. The company forecast
third-quarter revenue will grow as much as 9 percent from the
prior three months, exceeding what analysts had projected.  Web games operator Shanda Games Ltd. rallied 4.4 percent to
$3.77, the highest price since November.  Chalco’s American depositary receipts jumped 3.2 percent to
$10.09, the biggest advance since May 10.  Three-month aluminum contracts surged 2.4 percent on the
London Metal Exchange to $1,907 a metric ton yesterday, climbing
the most since May 3.  Semiconductor, a circuit foundry based in Shanghai, sank
4.7 percent to a one-week low of $4.25 in New York.  Sanford Bernstein analyst Mark Li cut his recommendation on
the stock to underperform, an equivalent to sell, from market
perform yesterday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares
retreated 0.3 percent from two-month high to 2,324.02, while the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in  Hong Kong  sank 1.6 percent
to 10,751.29, sliding the most in a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  