-- Romania Power-Exchange Operator Gets EU Antitrust Complaint
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-05-30T14:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/romania-s-power-exchange-operator-gets-eu-antitrust-objections.html
Romania ’s power-exchange operator
OPCOM SA and its owner Transelectrica SA were sent an antitrust
complaint by the European Union over restrictions on foreign
entrants to the country’s electricity wholesale market.  Today’s complaint, known as a statement of objections,
tells the companies that OPCOM’s practice “discriminates
against foreign traders and inhibits competition on the Romanian
electricity market,” the Brussels-based European Commission
said in an e-mailed statement.  “OPCOM’s business practice is increasing the cost for
foreign traders to do business on the Romanian power exchange
and deters them from entering the Romanian electricity wholesale
market,” the commission said. “This reduces liquidity and
efficiency of electricity markets.”  The EU’s antitrust watchdog is stepping up efforts to wipe
out energy-market abuses. It’s investigating whether OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest gas exporter, imposed unfair prices
and hindered the diversification of supply. Earlier this month,
officials raided the premises of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,
 Statoil ASA (STL)  and Platts, the commodities price reporting company,
seeking evidence of oil-price manipulation.  Spot Market  The EU opened a formal investigation in December into
OPCOM’s requirement that all members of the power exchange spot
market must have a Romanian value-added tax registration and as
such must be established in the country, which joined the EU in
2007.  Victor Ionescu, OPCOM’s chief executive officer, didn’t
immediately respond to calls to his mobile and work phones.
Rodica Popa, head of guarantee mechanisms and financial
instruments, didn’t immediately answer.  CEZ Group is one such foreign company affected by the
system, Zsolt Bojtos, head of the Czech company’s foreign asset
management and southeast Europe markets, said by phone from
 Prague .  “CEZ has generation, distribution, sales and trading in
Romania and has been directly affected for the past two years,”
said Bojtos. “We are actively fighting against the
discrimination. The energy law has brought so many problems and
almost paralysis to Romanian wholesale power trading.”  In June, a national law was approved preventing bilateral
power trading and making participants buy and sell electricity
on the OPCOM exchange.  “Companies that have assets in Romania will not pull out
of trading but some independent power traders have limited their
activity or left the market,” said Bojtos.  Companies in antitrust cases can defend themselves in
writing or at an oral hearing before the EU’s antitrust
authority decides to impose fines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  