-- Rosneft Picks Ruble Bonds as Dollar Yields Climb: Russia Credit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-05-31T08:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/rosneft-picks-ruble-bonds-as-dollar-yields-climb-russia-credit.html
OAO Rosneft is returning to ruble
bonds as  Russia ’s largest oil company opts for local funding
amid rising yields on international markets.  State-run Rosneft is offering 40 billion rubles ($1.3
billion) of bonds redeemable in five years at a yield of 8.00
percent to 8.16 percent next week, according to sale organizer
ZAO Raiffeisenbank. The rate on its dollar bonds due March 2022
has increased 60 basis points in May, or more than twice as much
as local-currency debt redeemable in the same month of 2018,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rosneft became the world’s largest publicly traded oil
producer by output, amassing $56 billion in net debt at the end
of the first quarter after buying BP Plc’s Russia venture. While
Russian companies had a record month for foreign-currency
issuance in April, dollar yields have climbed this month on bets
the U.S. will curtail stimulus.  “It’s easier to place rubles in tough times as you have
the support from large government-owned banks,” Dmitry Dudkin,
head of fixed-income research at UralSib Financial Corp. in
Moscow, said yesterday by e-mail. They can use the securities as
collateral in  repurchase agreements  with the central bank, which
isn’t the case with Eurobonds, he said.  Lukoil Sale  OAO Lukoil issued $3 billion of bonds in April, its first
international offering since 2010. Russia’s biggest non-state
oil company led Russian companies to a record $13 billion of
foreign-currency sales that month as they swooped on yields
forced down by a  Bank of Japan  decision to pursue unprecedented
stimulus.  Yields on 10-year U.S. Treasuries surged to the highest
level since April 5, 2012 on May 29. U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central bank could
reduce the pace of its asset purchases if officials see signs of
sustained improvement in growth.  Ruble debt allows the company to diversify borrowing
sources, Moscow-based Rosneft’s press service said by e-mail on
May 29.  Borrowing in the Russian currency and using cross-currency
swaps to get dollars is 30 to 40 basis points less expensive
than selling dollar debt, Anton Nikitin, an analyst at VTB
Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail yesterday.  “Ruble bond yields and swap rates are such that borrowing
rubles and swapping into dollars is quite cheap,” Maxim Tishin,
who helps to manage $1.1 billion at UFG Asset Management in
Moscow, said by e-mail on May 28.  Debt Payments  Rosneft has $6.6 billion in debt maturing this year after
paying off $1.15 billion in the first quarter, the press service
said today. The company is due to repay the equivalent of $15.6
billion next year and $15.9 billion in 2015, according to a
 presentation  on its website. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization were about $4.9 billion in the
first quarter, the document shows.  “Rosneft doesn’t have much pressure with cash,”
Konstantin Nemnov, a portfolio manager at TKB BNP Paribas
Investment Partners in  St. Petersburg , said by e-mail yesterday.  The state-run company’s output of 4.17 million barrels a
day of crude oil in the first quarter is 30 percent higher than
3.2 million barrels a day total April output from  Iraq , the
second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sovereign Yields  Rosneft is ranked BBB, the same as the government, at  Fitch
Ratings , the second-lowest investment-grade category. The yield
on the country’s dollar bonds due April 2042 increased 51 basis
points, or 0.51 percentage point, this month to 4.96 percent as
of 12:33 p.m. in Moscow. The extra yield investors demand to
hold Russia’s debt rather than U.S. Treasuries increased four
basis points to 208, compared with 205 for  Brazil , according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes .  The cost of insuring Russia’s debt using credit default
swaps was little changed at 155 basis points. The swaps cost 21
basis points more than  Turkey , which is ranked one step lower by
Fitch Ratings at BBB-. The contracts, which increase as
perceptions of creditworthiness worsen, pay the buyer face value
in exchange for underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreement.  Russia may sell as much as $7 billion of bonds in June,
Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said on May 29 in
 Singapore . Rosneft may be waiting for the sovereign to issue
before selling dollar debt itself, according to Kathleen Middlemiss, head of corporate credit research for  Europe , the
 Middle East  and  Africa  at UBS AG in  London . With Treasury yields
rising, means the company will wait before returning to
international investors, she said.  “We’d expected Rosneft to issue in dollars since the start
of the year,” Middlemiss said by e-mail. “Now it looks like
that’s postponed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  