-- Royal Caribbean Ship Fire to Cut Profit by 10 Cents a Sha
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-05-30T21:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/royal-caribbean-ship-fire-to-cut-profit-by-10-cents-a-sha.html
Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) , the
second U.S. cruise operator to cut short a voyage after a mishap
at sea, said a fire this week on the company’s Grandeur of the
Seas will reduce annual profit by 10 cents a share.  Repair to the ship will take about six weeks, with the
vessel expected to return to service by July 12, the world’s
second-largest cruise operator said yesterday in a statement
after financial markets closed.  The Grandeur of the Seas began sailing out of Baltimore
this month after a $48 million renovation, according to a May 3
statement. The fire that broke out in a rear area forced the
company to cut a trip short on May 27, according to the Miami-based company. Guests were flown back to Baltimore from the
Bahamas, given a full refund and a  100 percent credit  toward
another sailing. Six future sailings were canceled.  “The extent of the financial impact was relatively high
because the affected sailings were during the premium summer
season,” Jason Liberty, the company’s chief financial officer,
said in the statement.  The incident won’t affect the cruise line’s Ba1  credit
rating , Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said today in a
statement. The Grandeur of the Seas represents about 2 percent
of Royal Caribbean’s capacity, Moody’s said.  Royal Caribbean rose 2.1 percent to $35.83 at the close in
 New York , marking the shares biggest one-day advance in a month.
The stock has  gained  5.4 percent this year.  Cruise News  The incident is the latest of several for the cruise
industry, including a fire on the  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  ship Triumph in
February that left 3,100 passengers at sea with limited food and
toilet service. Earlier this year, Carnival, the world’s largest
cruise operator, had to fly guests back to the U.S. from St.
Maarten after an emergency generator malfunctioned on the Dream
liner.  The Washington-based Cruise Lines International Association
trade group  released  a passenger bill of rights May 22, designed
to calm customer concerns.  Analysts  forecast  2013 profit of $2.45 a share, the average
of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  