-- MRV Drops to Three-Year Low in New York as Brazil Raises Rates
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-30T16:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/mrv-drops-to-three-year-low-in-new-york-as-brazil-raises-rates.html
MRV Engenharia e Participacoes SA ,
the Brazilian homebuilder, slumped to a three-year low in  New
York  trading after the South American country’s central bank
raised the target lending rate more than economists forecast.  The company’s American depositary receipts dropped 1.5
percent to $6.50 at 11:34 a.m. in New York. A close at that
level would be the lowest since December 2009. Brazilian markets
are closed today for a national holiday.  Brazil ’s central bank board voted unanimously yesterday to
raise the benchmark Selic rate by a half-percentage point to 8
percent. The decision surprised 38 of 57 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, who had expected a second straight increase of a
quarter-percentage point. The other 19 correctly forecast the
half-point increase.  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes (PDGRY)  led a drop
among consumer stocks yesterday after the nation’s statistics
agency said Brazil’s economy expanded 1.9 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, lower than the 2.3 percent median
growth forecast among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  PDG dropped 3 percent to $2.30 in New York today. ADRs for
Cia. de Bebidas das Americas, the heaviest-weighed stock on the
MSCI Brazil/Consumer Staples  index , also tumbled in New York
today.  AmBev (ABV) , as the Brazilian unit of Anheuser-Busch InBev NV
is known, declined 0.7 percent to $40, set for the lowest close
in a month.  The iShares MSCI Brazil Index Fund climbed 0.9 percent to
$52.86, snapping five-days of losses, the longest losing streak
in two months.  Annual inflation accelerated for nine straight months
through March to 6.59 percent, above the top of the central
bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent, before easing
to 6.49 percent last month. The central bank said in a statement
last night that its decision will help slow inflation and
“assure that this trend will persist next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  