-- S&P Asks Panel to Send States’ Rating Cases to New York
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-30T20:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/s-p-asks-judges-panel-to-send-states-rating-cases-to-ny.html
McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI)  and
Standard & Poor’s asked a panel of judges to pack up 15 state
lawsuits in which they’re accused of inflating securities
ratings and ship them to New York where the companies are based.  Lead defense lawyer Floyd Abrams told the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation in Louisville, Kentucky, today that the
cases stem from the same facts and almost all were filed at the
same time in their home states’ courts.  The state complaints have “identical claims and almost
identical language,” Abrams told the panel. Most importantly,
they are “based on identical facts” and should be treated
collectively, said Abrams, a partner in New York-based Cahill
Gordon & Reindel LLP.  McGraw Hill and S&P seek to consolidate the cases in New
York, where defense lawyers say they could be most easily
coordinated with a single judge reviewing all court filings and
arguments. The states oppose that plan, arguing their attorneys
general should be able to enforce their own state laws in their
own state courts.  Most of the states sued in February in conjunction with a
U.S. complaint filed in Los Angeles federal court that alleges
S&P downplayed risks associated with the mortgage-backed
securities to increase its revenue and market share.  McGraw Hill and S&P have called the state and federal
allegations meritless.  February Complaints  Cases were filed in February by  Arizona ,  Arkansas ,
 California ,  Colorado , Delaware,  Idaho , Iowa,  Maine , Missouri,
North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina,  Tennessee ,
 Washington  and the District of Columbia. Mississippi had filed a
suit earlier.  McGraw Hill and S&P removed all but California’s case from
the state courts where they were filed to their geographically
overlapping federal courts as a prelude to its bid to get them
grouped for pretrial proceedings in New York.  Today’s arguments were heard by a panel of six federal
judges drawn from courts in San Francisco, New York,
Philadelphia, San Antonio, Topeka,  Kansas , and Concord, New
Hampshire. A seventh judge, John G. Heyburn of Louisville, the
chairman of the panel, recused himself from the arguments
without public explanation.  “Traditionally, we don’t centralize based on a common
issue of law,” Judge Charles Breyer of San Francisco told
Abrams. Breyer asked whether the panel should wait for rulings
on several pending requests to have the states’ cases returned
to their state courts.  Multiple Judges  Abrams responded that some of those state judges have
already said having multiple judges decide the same remand issue
is a waste of judicial resources.  Delaware  Deputy Attorney General Greg Strong led the
states’ opposition to consolidation. He told the panel the
attorneys generals were capable of working together without it.  The chief law officer for each jurisdiction wants to
enforce the law of his state, Strong said. He added later that
there would be “significant harm and significant expense” in
compelling attorneys general from states as far as Arizona and
Idaho to travel to New York.  Panel Judge Lewis Kaplan, who sits on U.S. District Court
in  Manhattan , called that argument “a wee bit exaggerated,”
noting the litigants would still need to come to New York for
depositions of McGraw Hill and S&P witnesses and that the cases
would be returned to their home federal courts for trial.  Ratings Statements  Ratings statements are matters of opinion, protected by the
U.S. Constitution’s guarantee of free speech, Abrams said in a
March 8 filing with the panel. Congress has said that neither
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission nor any state can
regulate ratings or the methods by which they’re determined, he
said.  Attorneys general for every jurisdiction except the
District of Columbia, including a mix of Republicans and
Democrats, have opposed the consolidation bid.  Defense bids to remove earlier-filed cases in  Connecticut 
and  Illinois  foundered when federal judges ruled those transfers
were made too late and returned the suits to state courts. The
federal judge in Illinois also said there was no U.S.
jurisdiction for the case there.  Federal judges in Washington,  Pennsylvania  and elsewhere
have frozen the action on cases before them until the
multidistrict litigation panel answers the consolidation
question.  Tennessee Attorney General Robert Cooper, a Democrat, said
in an April 2 filing that his state has been investigating S&P
for three years “for misrepresentations made about its
independence, objectivity and desire for revenue, in operating
as a credit rating agency.”  Consumer Laws  Cooper called his colleagues’ cases “sovereign enforcement
actions” against S&P for its alleged violations of each state’s
consumer protection laws. He said the companies haven’t carried
their burden of proving consolidation is warranted.  “This case presents a classic consumer fraud dispute at
the heart of a state’s traditional police powers, free of
federal issues that would remotely support removal
jurisdiction,”  Iowa  Attorney General Tom Miller said in his
April 2 filing opposing S&P’s consolidation plan.  Federal courts don’t have jurisdiction over his case,
Miller, a Democrat, said.  S&P can’t use a federal defense such as free speech or
Congress’s 2006 Credit Rating Agency Reform Act, referenced in
Abrams’s March filing to create federal jurisdiction, Republican
Attorney General Alan Wilson of South Carolina, said in his
April 2 opposition papers.  New York  Even if the panel deems grouping of the cases before one
federal judge is warranted, New York shouldn’t be that place,
Wilson said.  The attorney general cited the court’s already busy docket
and said none of the cases at issue are pending there.  “Our airports are open,” Abrams said of New York in his
argument today. “Anyone who has anything to do with this case
lives there.”  The multidistrict case is In Re: Ratings Agency Litigation,
MDL No. 2446, Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
(Louisville,  Kentucky ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Louisville, Kentucky, federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  