-- SAIC Motor Chairman Says Carmaker Concerned About Share Price
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-30T09:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/saic-motor-chairman-says-carmaker-concerned-about-share-price.html
SAIC (600104)  Motor Corp. Chairman Hu Maoyuan
said he is concerned about the company’s share price, which has
declined this year for the worst return among Chinese carmakers.  SAIC’s stock has declined 11 percent this year in Shanghai
trading, compared with the 2.1 percent gain in the  Shanghai
Composite Index. (SHCOMP)   Great Wall Motor Co. (601633) , China’s biggest SUV
maker, has climbed 59 percent in the same period.  “Our company has investment value,” SAIC Chairman Hu Maoyuan said today, responding to a shareholder’s comparison of
the Shanghai-based automaker with Great Wall. “We’re discussing
the issue. We also want our share price to go up.”  SAIC, which operates joint ventures with  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , has forecast revenue will increase at the
slowest pace in five years to 490 billion  yuan  ($80 billion)
this year and for deliveries to rise 9.1 percent to 4.9 million
units. The automaker reported full-year profit in March that
missed analysts’ estimates after earnings growth stalled at its
venture with GM.  Hu said SAIC will push ahead with plans to expand in
Thailand and is considering other markets including South
America and the Middle East.  The automaker targets to sell 240,000 units of its Roewe
and MG brands this year and for exports to exceed 10,000,
President Chen Hong said at the same meeting today. SAIC’s
growth may be slower than other Chinese automakers because it
focuses on the mid- to high-end vehicle segments, Chen said.  The maker of the Roewe E50 has sold more than 280 of the
electric vehicles, though demand depends on government subsidies
as the costs are high, Chen said. Many rental companies are
interested in the E50 for their fleet, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  