-- HSBC Asia Prime-Finance Team Seeks to Double Hedge-Fund Assets
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-05-30T01:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/hsbc-asia-prime-finance-team-seeks-to-double-hedge-fund-assets.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the  largest 
European bank by assets, plans to double its Asia-Pacific prime
finance team’s cut of hedge-fund assets in the coming year, said
Melvyn Ford, regional head of the business.  It is part of a target to improve its standing by two
places to the region’s sixth-largest  prime  broker over the 12
months, Ford said in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday. HSBC
was ranked eighth in its first full year in a survey by trade
journal AsiaHedge released this month.  HSBC was a late entrant to the Asia-Pacific prime brokerage
market dominated by the likes of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse Group AG. Banks are competing
for regional hedge-fund assets that slipped 1 percent to $139
billion in 2012 after the closures of those unable to cope with
falling revenue and rising costs that cut the number of funds by
5 percent, according to  AsiaHedge .  “For everyone, it has been a challenging year,” said
Ford. “We definitely announced our arrival. We’re trying to
pick the clients and partner with clients that really want to be
trading counterparts of HSBC.”  HSBC has been the biggest hedge-fund administrator in the
region, according to AsiaHedge. It secured 33 sole and shared
prime-brokerage mandates from regional  hedge funds , 24 of them
from those based in Hong Kong and  China , according to the
survey. Prime brokers offer services such as trade settlement,
cash and securities lending to hedge funds.  Established Clients  Ford didn’t give a figure for the amount of cash and
securities that the funds placed with the regional team.
AsiaHedge’s survey estimated it at $3 billion.  More than 80 percent of HSBC’s Asian prime-brokerage
clients are established managers, which have been operating for
some time, Matthew Kiraly, head of sales and marketing on the
Asia-Pacific prime finance team, said during the interview.
About seven of the 10 largest China-focused managers are clients
of HSBC’s prime-brokerage unit, he added.  “I don’t envisage us taking a huge number of new prime
clients based in the region, maybe between five and 10 a year,”
said Ford.  Instead, the team will focus on allocating the necessary
resources to each client to encourage them to do more business
with HSBC, including borrowing more from the bank and placing a
bigger share of assets with it, Kiraly said.  U.S., Singapore  The bank will increase its focus on the U.S. and  Singapore 
in the next few months after targeting initial efforts at funds
based in  Greater China , said Kiraly.  As much as 70 percent of Asian prime-brokerage revenue is
still generated from U.S.-based clients, said Ford.  HSBC’s Asian prime-brokerage team initially focused on
recruiting equity long-short managers, who bet on rising and
falling stock prices. It is looking to expand its clients among
multistrategy funds that trade various asset classes using
different approaches to take advantage of the bank’s traditional
strength in fixed-income and foreign-currency markets, said
Kiraly.  HSBC was the second-largest underwriter of Asia-Pacific
debt offerings last year as well as the 11th-largest arranger of
equity and equity-linked securities sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  