-- SEC Nasdaq-Facebook, Liberty Reserve Charged, Total: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-05-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/sec-nasdaq-facebook-liberty-reserve-charged-total-compliance.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  agreed to pay
$10 million to settle Securities and Exchange Commission charges
that its mishandling of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering
last year was a violation of securities laws.  Regulators cited the second-largest operator of U.S. equity
markets for its “poor systems and decision-making” during the
IPO in May 2012 that was delayed by a computer malfunction. The
settlement is the largest with an American exchange, which enjoy
legal protections because of their self-regulating role.  Brokers handling Facebook orders in the May 2012 IPO
claimed they lost hundreds of millions of dollars after a design
flaw in Nasdaq’s software delayed the stock’s open and left them
confused about whether or not they owned shares. Yesterday’s
settlement is in addition to Nasdaq’s proposal to pay $62
million to compensate member firms for losses.  The SEC penalty was imposed because  Nasdaq  failed in its
obligation to ensure that systems, processes and contingency
planning are robust and adequate to manage an IPO without
disruption to the market, the agency said.  “The settlement is another important step forward,” said
Nasdaq Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld in an open letter
e-mailed to Bloomberg News. “We have put in place innovative
safeguards and taken a number of steps to help ensure that
Nasdaq continues to deliver the world’s best trading
technology.”  Greifeld said in the letter that Nasdaq has made staff and
operational changes to improve compliance.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC to Vote Next Week on Floating Share for Riskier Money Funds  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will vote next
week on a proposal that would require a floating-share value for
the riskiest type of money-market mutual funds, two people
briefed on the matter said.  The proposal, which commissioners will consider on June 5,
would apply only to funds that buy corporate debt and cater to
institutional clients, another person said on May 10. Money
funds, which hold $2.6 trillion in assets, are now allowed to
keep a stable value of $1 a share, which makes them appealing to
investors and companies that use them like cash accounts.  SEC Chairman Mary Jo White declined to confirm a date for
the vote, telling reporters in  Washington  yesterday only that
commissioners will vote on the issue in the “very near
future.”  The proposal is the SEC’s long-awaited response to the role
that money funds played in the 2008 financial crisis, when
investors fled from so-called “prime” funds, whose holdings
include short-term corporate debt such as commercial paper. The
failure of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, caused by
losses on debt issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
triggered a wider run on money funds that helped freeze global
credit markets.  Supporters of a floating-share price for money funds say it
would limit investor runs, while the money-fund industry has
said a floating-share price would destroy the funds’ appeal.  The proposal appears to have support among commissioners.  FDIC Board to Meet on Non-Bank Resolution Authority  The board of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. will meet
June 4 to consider a final rule laying out a definition for
which non-banks would be subject to the agency’s orderly
resolution authority in the event of a collapse, the agency said
in a statement.  If a resolution situation occurred, the FDIC would act as
receiver for such companies and oversee the unwinding in place
of a traditional bankruptcy process.  Compliance Action  Total Agrees to Pay $398 Million to Settle U.S. Bribe Probe  Total SA (FP) ,  France ’s largest oil producer, agreed to pay $398
million to settle U.S. allegations it made illegal payments to
an Iranian official to win oil and gas contracts, according to
the Justice Department.  Total, in filings yesterday in federal court in Alexandria,
 Virginia , was charged with three counts of violating the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act as part of a deferred-prosecution
agreement. Those charges will be dismissed after three years if
the company abides by the terms of the agreement, which includes
hiring an independent compliance monitor.  The company also resolved related allegations with the
Securities and Exchange Commission in an administrative case
while French authorities referred the company and Chief
Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie for criminal
prosecution.  The $245.2 million criminal penalty is the fourth-largest
obtained by the U.S. under the anti-bribery law, according to
Peter Carr, a Justice Department spokesman. The settlement with
the SEC includes disgorgement of $153 million.  The Paris-based company said in its latest annual report
that provisions for a $398 million settlement were made in June
2012.  From 1995 to 2004, Total made about $60 million in bribe
payments to an Iranian official in order to obtain oil rights in
three oil and gas fields, according to the deferred prosecution
agreement.  Anastasia Zhivulina, a Total spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on the
settlement.  FDIC’s Gruenberg Warns Banks on Cuts That Gave Record Profit  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Martin Gruenberg 
warned banks that additional reductions of bad-loan reserves
that have helped them post record earnings will warrant
regulator scrutiny.  U.S. banks reported net income of $40.3 billion for the
first three months of 2013 as they cut expenses, which offset
declining interest income, the FDIC said yesterday in its
 Quarterly Banking Profile . On the heels of the second-most
profitable year in industry history, the main driver of earnings
has been cutting the reserves for failed loans, according to the
report.  Lenders set aside $11 billion for bad loans -- a 23 percent
reduction from a year earlier and the lowest level since 2007 --
as the quality of their assets improved, the FDIC said in its
report. The quarterly loss from loans was $16 billion, which is
the lowest hit since the 2008 credit crisis.  Industry profits were widespread with more than 90 percent
of banks reporting positive income in the quarter, according to
the agency’s report.  Courts  Joe Bogus Account Said to Show Liberty Reserve’s Evasive Design  Liberty Reserve SA, whose operators are charged with
running a scheme that masked more than $6 billion of criminal
proceeds, was designed to help users evade scrutiny, U.S.
prosecutors said.  The digital currency company, unlike traditional banks or
legitimate online payment processors, didn’t require users to
validate their identity and allowed accounts to be opened under
fictitious names, according to prosecutors.  An undercover agent was able to establish a Liberty Reserve
account using the alias “Joe Bogus,” listing his address as
“123 Fake Main Street,” said  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara. He said the prosecution is believed to be the largest
money-laundering case brought by the U.S.  Liberty Reserve, incorporated in Costa Rica in 2006,
operated as “essentially a black-market bank,” and facilitated
global criminal conduct, Bharara said May 28 at a news
conference announcing the unsealing of an indictment against the
company and seven principals.  The company was shut by the U.S. through criminal and civil
enforcement actions. It had helped users launder illegal
proceeds of crimes such as identity theft, credit card fraud,
computer hacking prosecutors said.  The U.S. charged seven people. Five people tied to the case
have been arrested; two remain at large.  The case is U.S. v. Kats, 13-cr-00368, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  States Join Retailer Fight Against Credit-Card Fee Deal  A group of 48 states and District of Columbia joined about
40 major retailers in opposing a $7.25 billion antitrust
settlement with  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  over merchant
fees, saying the deal infringes on state legal powers.  The states said in a brief filed late in the day on May 28
in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court that the accord contains
overbroad legal releases protecting credit card firms that could
“undermine law enforcement authority, both now and as to future
claims.”  Along with the states, more than 500 merchants filed
notices opposing the settlement by yesterday’s deadline. Among
those were about 40 of the 100 largest publicly traded retailers
by sales, including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,
 Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  and  Home Depot Inc. (HD)   Estimated by the plaintiffs to be the largest in an
antitrust case, the deal has been criticized by major retailers
and trade associations who argue it’s not nearly big enough to
make up for the fees and allows the card firms to continue to
fix the charges in the future.  In the states’ brief, nine said they formally objected to
the settlement. The rest said they supported the other states’
arguments.  Visa and MasterCard say they anticipate the settlement will
ultimately be approved.  In November, U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn
gave tentative approval to the deal.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 