-- Mattek-Sands Upsets Li as Djokovic Wins at French Open
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-30T23:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/serena-williams-joins-federer-in-french-open-third-round.html
Bethanie Mattek-Sands pulled off the
biggest upset so far in the French Open women’s draw by ousting
former champion Li Na as rain once again disrupted play.  Mattek-Sands beat the 2011 winner from China 5-7, 6-3, 6-2
yesterday in a second-round match stopped three times by rain at
 Roland Garros  in Paris. No. 6 Li is the highest-seeded woman to
lose so far in the clay-court Grand Slam tennis tournament.  “That’s one of the best wins of my career,” Mattek-Sands,
ranked 67th by the WTA Tour, told reporters. “She’s a champion
and I had to play some of my best tennis ever to beat her.”  Men’s top seed Novak Djokovic and women’s Australian Open
winner  Victoria Azarenka  both advanced yesterday, when four rain
delays caused 14 singles matches to be either suspended or
postponed. It’s the second time this week that rain in the
French capital has pushed matches back to the following day.  Defending champions  Rafael Nadal  of Spain and  Maria Sharapova  of Russia were forced to return today for their
second-round matches. Sharapova was leading Canada’s Eugenie
Bouchard 6-2, 4-2 when rain brought a final stoppage at about 9
p.m. local time. Nadal and Slovakia’s Martin Klizan never
started their match after warming up.  Also today, women’s top seed  Serena Williams  of the U.S.
and men’s No. 2  Roger Federer  of Switzerland are scheduled to
play third-round matches. Milos Raonic, the No. 14 seed, plays
No. 23  Kevin Anderson  of  South Africa  as he bids to become the
first Canadian man to reach the round of 16 at Roland Garros.  Li’s Loss  Though Li’s quest to regain the French Open title she won
two years ago was ended by the unseeded Mattek-Sands, she
refused to blame the weather delays.  “A loss is a loss,” Li, 31, told reporters. “The
conditions were the same for both players.”  Li became the first player from  Asia  to win a major singles
title in Paris in 2011. Yesterday’s defeat was her earliest
since being knocked out of Wimbledon last year at the same
stage. She lost to Azarenka in January’s Australian Open final.  Mattek-Sands, 28, matched her best performance at the
 French Open  of two years ago in reaching the third round.  Djokovic, a six-time Grand Slam winner seeking his first
French Open title, needed just 86 minutes to beat Guido Pella of
 Argentina . The Serb hit 29 winners compared to 10 for Pella, and
broke the Argentine’s serve seven times.  Djokovic’s victory sends him into a third-round meeting
with 26th seed Grigor Dimitrov of  Bulgaria , who beat France’s
Lucas Pouille in straight sets. Dimitrov defeated Djokovic in
Madrid earlier this month.  “It’s going to be a tough one for both of us,” Djokovic
said. “It’s going to be very physical and all the hard work
that I put into preparations for this tournament hopefully will
play into my advantage and will pay off on the court.”  ‘On, Off’  Third-seeded Azarenka of Belarus defeated  Germany ’s Annika
Beck 6-4, 6-3.  “I think it was very hard conditions in terms of waiting
and there is so much on, off, on, off,” Azarenka told
reporters. “But it’s the same for everybody. So it was just a
matter of being patient.”  Women’s seventh-seeded Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic,
No. 9 Sam Stosur of Australia, No. 17 Sloane Stephens of the
U.S., No. 18 Jelena Jankovic of Serbia and No. 31 Alize Cornet
of France all won in straight sets. No. 16 Dominika Cibulkova of
Slovakia lost to New Zealand’s Marina Erakovic in three sets.  No. 13 Kei Nishikori of Japan, No. 24 Benoit Paire of
France and No. 27 Fabio Fognini of Italy won in the men’s draw,
where only seven of the 16 scheduled matches were completed.
Germany’s Philipp Kohlschreiber advanced in a walkover after
Taiwan’s Lu Yen-hsun pulled out with a right ankle injury, while
Romanian Victor Hanescu moved on when  Russia ’s Dmitry Tursunov
retired.  A back injury to Venus Williams forced her and sister
Serena to withdraw from the women’s doubles competition before
their first-round match. Venus Williams lost in the opening
round of singles to Poland’s Urszula Radwanska five days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  