-- Severn Trent Full-Year Profit Falls Amid Takeover Interest
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-05-30T16:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/severn-trent-full-year-profit-falls-as-rainfall-curbs-water-use.html
Severn Trent Plc (SVT) , the U.K.’s second-largest publicly traded water company, reported a 3.3 percent
decline in fiscal full-year profit after high rainfall cut water
use and increased operating costs.  Underlying pretax profit dropped to 266.3 million pounds
($404 million) in the 12 months through March from 275.3 million
pounds a year earlier, the utility said today in a statement.
The figure excludes losses on financial instruments.  Wet weather in the first half increased sewer flooding and
lowered consumption, reducing revenue at Severn Trent’s water
unit by 19.3 million pounds, the statement showed. The company
has been the subject of takeover interest in recent weeks,
rejecting an approach from a group including  Canada ’s Borealis
Infrastructure Management Inc., the Kuwait Investment Office,
and Britain’s Universities Superannuation Scheme on May 15.  The potential bidders have until June 11 under U.K.
takeover rules to announce a formal intention to make an offer.
An improved bid could be announced as early as next week,
according to a person familiar with the deliberations who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private.  Borealis Infrastructure, the Kuwait Investment Office and
Superannuation plan to raise their offer and are reviewing
today’s earnings to decide how much they should boost the bid,
the person said. The group is considering increasing the offer
to 2,000 pence to 2,100 pence a share from about 1,950 pence
though no final decision has been made, the person said.  Severn Trent Chief Executive Officer Tony Wray, who is
retiring next spring from the company that supplies water to 7.7
million people, declined to comment on takeover talks today on a
conference call.  Dividend Raised  Severn Trent rose 0.7 percent to 2,049 pence in London
trading, bringing this year’s gain to 30 percent and valuing the
water utility at 4.89 billion pounds.  The Coventry, England-based company will pay a dividend of
75.85 pence a share for the past year, an 8.2 percent increase.
Severn Trent invested 555 million pounds over the fiscal year
and expects to spend as much as 620 million pounds in the
current period, Wray said in the statement.  The U.K.’s largest publicly traded water company is United
Utilities Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  