-- Shekel Set for Biggest Monthly Loss in Year After Rate Cuts
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-05-30T11:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/shekel-set-for-biggest-monthly-loss-in-year-after-rate-cuts.html
Israel ’s shekel headed for its
biggest monthly loss in a year after the central bank
unexpectedly cut its base lending rate twice in May as it seeks
to prevent currency appreciation from undermining growth.  The shekel has weakened 2.7 percent this month, set for the
largest drop since May 2012. The currency rose 0.3 percent to
3.6832 a dollar at 12:51 p.m. in  Tel Aviv . It strengthened 2.4
percent in the first quarter, the second-biggest gain after the
Mexican peso among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The central bank’s interest rate decisions this month did
succeed in moderating the sharp appreciation of the shekel,”
Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based DS
Securities & Investments Ltd., said by phone. “A weaker shekel
will be positive for exporters and contribute to more economic
growth.”  Exports, which account for 40 percent of the Israeli
economy, may benefit from the  Bank of Israel ’s cumulative 50
basis-point cut, designed to narrow the gap with rates in major
economies. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development forecasts an improvement in 2014 in the economies of
the U.S. and European Union, Israel’s top two export markets,
and sees world trade growing 5.8 percent from 3.6 percent this
year.  Together with the mid-month rate cut, the first unscheduled
decision since 2008, the Bank of Israel announced a plan to
purchase $2.1 billion by the end of the year. The decision to
buy foreign exchange helped reverse the shekel’s gain, Barry Topf, senior adviser to Governor  Stanley Fischer , said in an
interview yesterday.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, dropped 31 basis points
to 1.25 percent in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  