-- Slovenia’s Economy Seen Contracting for Fourth Quarter on Demand
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-05-30T13:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/slovenia-s-economy-seen-contracting-for-fourth-quarter-on-demand.html
Slovenia’s  economy  probably
contracted for a fourth consecutive quarter from January to
March on weakening domestic demand after the government’s
austerity push and a drop in investments.  Gross domestic product shrank 2.9 percent from the same
period in the previous year after a 3 percent drop in the last
quarter of 2012, according the median estimate in a  Bloomberg
News survey  of six economists. The statistics office will
publish the data at tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. in the capital,
Ljubljana.  The likely drop is “driven by weak demand with the biggest
drag in private spending as a consequence of austerity as well
as job losses and wage cuts,” Matjaz Music, director of
economic research at Hypo Alpe-Adria Banka d.d. in Ljubljana,
said in an e-mail reply to questions before the report.
“Investments also dropped due to the credit crunch, banks’ de-leveraging and weak firms’ balance sheets. The only positive
contribution is expected from exports.”  Slovenia’s export-led economy is set to recover only in
2015, according to the European Commission forecast, as the
nation battles its second recession since 2009 and a banking
crisis that is undermining growth prospects. The European Union
said yesterday the government’s overhaul program is on the right
track though it may need to provide more capital for the ailing
state-owned banks like Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.  The yield on the Slovenia’s benchmark dollar bond maturing
in 2022 dropped 3 basis points to 5.7 percent at 3:04 pm in
Ljubljana from yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  The Cabinet of Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek presented an
overhaul program that includes a direct bank recapitalization
plan of 900 million euros ($1.2 billion), transfer of bad loans
to a bad bank, an asset sale program and tax increases and
public-sector wage cuts.  ‘Gentle Nudges’  “The European Commission findings are broadly supportive
of on-going reform efforts,” Timothy Ash, an emerging-markets
economist at Standard Bank Plc in  London  said in a note to
clients today. “This report seems to be a case of providing
further gentle nudges for further reform, but lacking any desire
to force reform through the application of sanctions -- at least
until 2015.”  Slovenia was given until 2015 to bring the budget gap below
3 percent of economic output. The shortfall is set to surge to a
7.9 percent level this year, Bratusek has said, mostly due to
the bank capital boost.  GDP will shrink an annual 2 percent this year and 0.1
percent in 2014, the EU said in a May 3 forecast. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development sees
Slovenia’s economy contracting 2.3 percent this year and
advancing 0.1 percent next year, the Paris-based body said in a
report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  