-- Smithfield’s Sale Likely to Clear U.S. Security Review
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-05-30T18:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/smithfield-s-sale-likely-to-clear-u-s-security-review.html
A U.S. national security panel will
vet  Smithfield Foods (SFD)  Inc.’s purchase by a Chinese buyer for its
effects on the  food supply  and proximity to military bases,
though the review is unlikely to derail the deal, lawyers
familiar with the process said.  “I don’t see deal-killer objections to this transaction,”
said Stewart Baker, an attorney at Steptoe & Johnson LLP in
Washington and a former Department of Homeland Security
official. “The Obama administration doesn’t want to say ‘no’ to
every Chinese deal.”  The review by the inter-agency  Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S ., or CFIUS, will include scrutiny of
Smithfield Foods facilities near military bases and other
sensitive locations, said Stephen Mahinka, an attorney with
Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP, who according to his firm profile
has won clearance from CFIUS for almost 40 deals.  In probing the acquisition by Shuanghui International
Holdings Ltd., the panel will also look at the importance to the
U.S. food supply of the Smithfield, Virginia-based company, the
world’s biggest hog and pork producer, said Farhad Jalinous, a
lawyer at Kaye Scholer LLP in Washington who represents
companies in CFIUS cases.  ‘Security Considerations’  “The integrity of the food-supply chain gives rise to
national security considerations,” Jalinous said. “Is this
likely to be blocked? Not likely, but based on the conclusions
the government makes about the risk profile, CFIUS could require
a mitigation agreement to resolve perceived risks.”  Republican Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , saying a
sustainable food supply is critical to national security, urged
CFIUS to consider issues such as the role the Chinese government
plays in the Hong Kong-based acquirer.  “To have a Chinese food company controlling a major U.S.
meat supplier is a bit concerning,” he said in a statement.  Grassley’s home state  produces  $4.1 billion of pork
annually.  Closely held Shuanghui said in a statement yesterday it
would seek the non-mandatory CFIUS review for the acquisition.
Valued at $7.1 billion including debt, the deal would be the
largest Chinese takeover of a U.S. company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Military Facilities  The move follows CFIUS blocking at least three transactions
in the past four years that would have resulted in Chinese
companies gaining control of assets near military facilities.
Huawei Technologies Co. and Bain Capital Partners LLC also
dropped a bid to buy computer-equipment maker 3Com Corp. in 2008
in the face of CFIUS opposition. An attempt by Huawei to buy
patents from 3Leaf Systems Inc., a computer services company,
the year before met the same fate.  Other deals have required modifications. In February, CFIUS
approved the acquisition of U.S. assets of Canadian energy
company Nexen Inc. by  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s biggest offshore oil
and natural gas producer. Although the companies never announced
terms of the agreement with CFIUS, Cnooc was barred from
operating oilfields in the  Gulf of Mexico  under the accord,
people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg in March.  Those deals involved companies whose businesses are at the
heart of CFIUS’s concerns, including computer networking,
telecommunications, critical infrastructure and energy.  Approved Acquisitions  Chinese acquisitions that CFIUS has allowed to go through
recently include Dalian Wanda Group’s $2.6 billion purchase of
AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. to create the world’s biggest
cinema owner in May 2012. In August, Wanxiang Group Corp.,
China’s largest auto-parts maker, was given approval to buy A123
Systems Inc., a maker of  lithium-ion batteries  for electric
cars, a deal opposed by some Republicans in Congress.  BGI-Shenzhen, a Chinese operator of genome-sequencing
centers, won CFIUS approval in December to buy  Mountain View ,
California-based Complete Genomics Inc., for about $117.6
million.  Submitting the deal for review by CFIUS is prudent given
increased U.S. concern over technology transfers and  cyber
security , Mahinka said.  “Foreign companies today are erring on the side of
filing,” he said.  If an acquirer doesn’t file when a deal is announced, CFIUS
can still impose a review at any point in the acquisition
process. That’s what happened last year to Ralls Corp., a
Chinese-owned wind energy company that had to sell assets near a
Navy airbase in  Oregon , a government demand Mahinka said
reflects heightened sensitivity regarding Chinese investors.  Smithfield Contracts  Smithfield owns 460 farms and has contracts with 2,100
others across 12 U.S. states, according to the company’s
website. Its direct dealings with the military are limited to
$12.5 million in contracts, according to procurement data
compiled by Bloomberg.  CIFIUS, led by the Treasury Department, is also made up of
representatives from the Justice, Homeland Security and Defense
departments and five other agencies, any of which might have
particular concerns about a takeover by a given foreign buyer.  Chinese companies, especially those that plan repeat
investments in the U.S., would be well-advised to submit deals
for review because “you start to become a known quantity,”
Mahinka said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in  Washington  at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  