-- Sony Said to Hire Morgan Stanley, Citigroup for Loeb Plan
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a ,   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-05-31T06:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/sony-said-to-work-with-morgan-stanley-citigroup-on-loeb-plan.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  is working with  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as it considers adopting billionaire
Daniel Loeb’s proposal for an initial public offering of its
entertainment unit, people familiar with the matter said.  Third Point LLC’s Loeb, which acquired more than 6 percent
of Sony, is pushing Chief Executive Officer Kazuo Hirai to sell
as much as 20 percent of the entertainment assets in an initial
public offering. Sony shares  rose  as much as 7 percent yesterday
in New York and as much as 5.8 percent today in Tokyo, where
they closed 2.1 percent higher at 2,049 yen.  Sony will look closely at Loeb’s proposal, though it’s
premature to speculate on the board’s decision, Hirai said at a
conference yesterday in Rancho Palos Verdes,  California . An
entertainment IPO would help Tokyo-based Sony sharpen the focus
on its  unprofitable electronics  businesses, boost its stock
price and raise cash, Loeb said in a May 14 letter to Hirai.  “The formal answer requires a third party, the finance
professionals’ opinion,” said Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Sony can’t give a big shareholder an
answer that hasn’t been properly considered.”  Shiro Kambe, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Sony, declined to
comment, as did representatives for Morgan Stanley and
Citigroup.  Film and financial-services earnings have helped Sony
counter nine straight annual losses from making TVs. The
company’s movie studio topped the U.S. box office last year with
hits such as “Skyfall.”  ‘Discussed Thoroughly’  Even after recent stock gains,  Japan ’s largest television
maker has lost almost two-thirds of its  market value  over the
past five years, losing ground in TVs to Samsung Electronics Co.
and lagging behind Apple Inc. in smartphones and tablet
computers.  “It’s something that needs to be discussed at the board
level and discussed thoroughly,” Hirai said at the D: All
Things Digital conference.  The electronics business is improving, Hirai said, citing
the Xperia Z smartphone and saying the coming PlayStation 4
console will target frequent gamers before expanding into non-video game content and services.  “I want to revive the electronics company,” Hirai said at
the conference.  Top Priority  “If you look at the value of the entertainment properties
for Sony, it’s been a great contributor to the bottom line,”
Hirai said in a CNBC interview. “We definitely want to make
sure we can continue a successful business in the entertainment
space. That is for me, first and foremost, the top priority.”  Loeb’s Sony stake was valued at about $1.1 billion,
according to his letter. The 51-year-old investor said he would
underwrite a rights offering in the entertainment unit that
would give shareholders the opportunity to participate. Third
Point, which manages more than $13 billion, would be willing to
buy up as much as $2 billion of the offering if there isn’t
demand elsewhere, according to the letter.  Sony’s shares have more than doubled in  Tokyo  trading this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  