-- South African Rand Drop ’Somewhat’ Exaggerated: Mminele
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-05-31T08:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/south-african-rand-drop-somewhat-exaggerated-mminele.html
The movements of South Africa’s rand,
which weakened to a four-year low against the dollar, are
“somewhat exaggerated,” the central bank’s Deputy Governor
 Daniel Mminele  said.  The rand, which breached 10 versus the dollar yesterday for
the first time since March 2009, has underperformed compared
with peers from other commodity-producing and emerging market
countries, Mminele, who heads the lender’s financial markets
department, said in a speech to bankers in Pretoria.  This shows its “growing sensitivity to domestic factors
such as concerns about the funding of a wider current-account
deficit, as well as broader socio-economic issues illustrated by
increasingly violent labor conflicts in the mining and other
sectors,” Mminele said yesterday.  The South African Reserve Bank last week kept its key
interest rate at a 30-year low of 5 percent as it tries to
balance the prospect of inflation breaching its 3 percent to 6
percent target with flagging growth in the continent’s biggest
economy.  The rand will stop depreciating at “some point” and
retrace its losses, National Treasury Director General Lungisa Fuzile said in an interview yesterday on Johannesburg-based
Radio 702. The labor situation in South Africa needs to be
stabilized and strikes at the nation’s mines avoided because the
economy isn’t diversified enough and depends too much on metals
and minerals for its exports, he said.  Worst Currency  The  inflation rate  has remained at 5.9 percent for the
three months through April, according to the statistics agency.
It is expected to average 5.8 percent this year and will exceed
the bank’s target in the third quarter, Governor Gill Marcus
said on May 23.  Inflation may be spurred by a weakening rand, which has
declined 17 percent this year, the worst-performing of 16 major
currencies monitored by Bloomberg. The rand fell 1.5 percent to
10.1945 per dollar by 10:05 a.m. in Johannesburg after sliding
2.2 percent yesterday. It has declined for 16 of the past 17
trading days.  “The current level of the exchange rate, if sustained,
poses a significant upside risk to the inflation outlook,”
Marcus said on May 23.  The economy expanded an annualized 0.9 percent in the first
quarter, its slowest pace since a 2009 recession, Statistics
South Africa said on May 28. Output is now under threat by a new
round of mining strikes, prompted in part by union rivalry.  If government revenue falls short, there is little South
Africa can do, Fuzile said in an interview with Johannesburg-based state-owned broadcaster SABC3 yesterday. The Treasury will
stick with plans announced in the budget in February of placing
a “ceiling” on spending, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in  Pretoria  at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  