-- South Korea Can’t Just Order Up Creative Economy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-30T20:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/south-korea-can-t-just-order-up-creative-economy.html
South Korea ’s economy has yet to
catch up to its people. They are the world’s most-wired
citizenry and the most advanced at using smartphones. Korean
stars are Asia’s most popular; Korean gadgets and fashions the
coolest.  Yet at home, huge manufacturing conglomerates, or chaebol,
such as  Hyundai Motor Group (005380) ,  Samsung Group (005930)  and  LG Group (066570)  remain
the mainstays of an export-focused system established after the
 Korean War  by strongman Park Chung Hee. In fact, as the July
edition of Bloomberg Markets magazine points out, the chaebols
have become even more dominant. Sales of the top 30
conglomerates accounted for 82 percent of South  Korea ’s gross
domestic product in 2012, compared with 53 percent in 2002.  As in other parts of Asia, in Korea a top-heavy system no
longer delivers for ordinary citizens. Wage growth has slowed,
while the costs of housing and education have jumped:
According to the  McKinsey Global Institute , most middle-income
Korean households are now cash-flow constrained. The ranks of
the middle class have shrunk from more than three-quarters of
the population to about two-thirds.  To make matters worse, a plummeting yen has eroded the
competitiveness of  South Korean exports . Last month the
country’s finance minister warned that  Japan ’s currency posed a
nastier threat to Koreans’ well-being than Kim Jong Un’s regime
in Pyongyang.  Welcome Measures  Park’s daughter, South Korean President Park Geun Hye,
understands that something needs to change. She wants to
transform Korea into a “creative economy,” based more on
services than on manufacturing, on innovation rather than
industrial brawn. The goal is the right one: Most Asian
countries will eventually need to head in a similar direction.
To achieve that goal, though, Park can’t rely on her father’s
methods.  In recent weeks, Park’s government has begun rolling out
 welcome measures  to foster innovation and startup companies. The
government plans to spend 200 billion won ($176 million) on
startups directly and 300 billion won on mergers and
acquisitions. Angel investors will receive generous tax
incentives. Highly skilled foreigners will be offered
entrepreneur visas to start businesses. The government estimates
that its measures will ultimately unlock 4.3 trillion won in
funding.  Yet unlike automobile factories or steel plants,
transformative technologies can’t just be ordered up by the
government. However fine Park’s intentions may be, midlevel
bureaucrats will be the ones putting her grand plans into
action. They are all too likely to stifle the creativity they’re
meant to promote.  Korean entrepreneurs are already warning that all this
state money comes wrapped in red tape. Prospective angel
investors -- often successful businessmen themselves -- have to
undergo certification before they can draw on matching state
funds. Government-sponsored incubators close at fixed hours that
make late-night coding sessions tough. Too often money flows to
“grantrepreneurs,” who are more skilled at writing proposals
than code.  The generation of Asian leaders to which Park’s father
belonged could define and direct whole industries. Now, though,
a lingering urge to oversee development just gets in the way.
Korea still sets highly specific rules governing Internet
development and usage, for instance. Such regulations cut off
Korean developers from the kind of cross-fertilization that
spurs new ideas -- an isolation that’s been dubbed the
 “Galapagos syndrome.”  Online innovations developed for the
Korean market can’t be scaled up globally.  Encouraging Risk  A shift in mindset is needed, not just money. Instead of
trying to police fast-changing technologies, the government
should lay out clear principles and allow independent regulators
to adapt rules as necessary. At the same time, Park should take
aim at the maze of laws and regulations that inhibit risk-taking
in Korea. According to the  World Bank ,  starting a business  in
South Korea is harder than in Belarus or Madagascar. Tax laws
encourage small businesses to stay small rather than grow.
Bankruptcy laws raise rather than lower the price of failure.  The state does have another critical role to play in this
transition. Traditional societies like Korea’s still prize
respectability above all: Parents push their children to
memorize their way into the best schools, to pad their resumes
with advanced degrees, and then to seek jobs in the government
or at one of the chaebols. Starting a company isn’t seen as a
sign of daring, but of failure. And if one does fail -- as
almost all successful entrepreneurs do at some point -- the
shame can be debilitating. Few dare to try again.  Leaders like Park need to be cheerleaders, helping to break
down cultural barriers to innovation. By declaring creativity to
be a critical national priority, she’s helping to reassure
Korean mothers that their  app-designing offspring  are
contributing to the nation’s well-being.  This was the secret to  Asia ’s postwar miracle: Leaders like
Park’s father transformed their countries by persuading citizens
to sacrifice and strive as part of the push to  industrialize . If
his daughter wants to start her own revolution, she should set
the goal -- and then let her people lead the way.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 