-- Spain Recession Eases as Consumers Offset Faltering Exports
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-05-30T08:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/spain-recession-eases-as-rajoy-bets-on-exports-to-exit-recession.html
Spain ’s  recession  eased in the first
quarter as domestic demand stabilized while exports, which the
government says will drive the recovery of the euro-area’s
fourth-largest economy, fell at the fastest pace in a year.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.5 percent from the fourth
quarter, in line with a first estimate on April 30, the Madrid-based National Statistics Institute said today. Output dropped
0.8 percent in the final three months of last year, the sharpest
decline since 2009 when the global economy was plunged into a
recession following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  The European Commission yesterday  suggested  giving Spain
until 2016 to tame the  largest   budget deficit  in the European
Union. Spanish unemployment may rise to 28 percent next year,
the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development also said yesterday, cutting its growth outlook for
the nation.  “Imagining that other countries are going to solve our
problems is a very optimistic view of the economic reality,”
said  Maria Yolanda Fernandez Jurado , associate professor in the
Faculty of Economic and Business Sciences at  Madrid ’s
Universidad Pontificia Comillas, in a telephone interview.  ’No Recovery’  Household spending contracted 0.4 percent from the previous
quarter, when it shrank 1.9 percent, while exports further
dropped, by 1.3 percent after 0.9 percent.  “There’s no sign of a recovery: exports depend on other
countries and one should be very prudent on domestic demand,”
Jurado said. “The future is uncertain, especially given
potential further tax increases and cuts in pensions.”  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bonds  was little
changed at 4.41 percent at 9:45 am in Madrid, while the spread
with similar German maturities was stable at 2.9 percentage
points. Spain’s 10-year borrowing costs have come down from a
euro-era high of 7.75 percent in July, before the  European
Central Bank  pledged to backstop the single currency.  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA last week said it will dismiss
394 workers at its Spanish wind-turbine plants in Albacete,
Tudela and Somozas. Renault SA’s chief operating officer  Carlos Tavares  said on May 14 that France’s second-largest car maker
expects the European car market to shrink 5 percent this year.  Inflation Accelerates  Inflation in May, measured by EU criteria, accelerated to
1.8 percent from 1.5 percent in April, when the rate dropped to
the lowest since February 2010, INE said in a separate release.
That is more than the 1.7 percent median of 15 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is counting on exports to fuel
a return to growth in the second half. Household spending in
 Germany , the euro area’s first economy, rose 0.8 percent in the
first quarter and the Bundesbank expects output to gather pace
in the current quarter. The ECB this month cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent and President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank stands ready to act again if
necessary.  “Fortunately, there has been a move from imposing
unrealistic conditions toward a more gradual approach that
doesn’t kill the patient,”  Gilles Moec , co-chief European
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London , said in a telephone
interview. “Spain has made big efforts to improve its
competitiveness but it isn’t showing in GDP figures because
global demand is depressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  