-- State Debt Growth Slowest in Decades as Slump Woes Linger
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-31T04:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/state-debt-grows-at-slowest-pace-since-1993-in-u-s-.html
State governments in the U.S. added
to their collective debt burden in 2012 at the slowest pace in
at least two decades, even with  interest rates  near historic
lows, showing many were still coping with fiscal fallout from
the recession that ended almost four years ago.  Total net tax-supported state debt rose 1.3 percent in
2012, compared with a 7 percent 10-year average, Moody’s
Investors Service said yesterday in a report. The amount climbed
to $516 billion from $510 billion in 2011, and the growth rate
will increase slightly this year, the company said.  Even with  yields  in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market
near the lowest in half a century, states aren’t adding debt as
 tax revenue  recovers from the longest recession since the
Depression and pension obligations rise. Many governments
refinanced higher-cost bonds, as such sales made up 62 percent
of municipal offerings last year, the most since 1993, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  “States have generally moved to a more conservative
approach to debt” since the 18-month recession ended in June
2009, New York-based Moody’s said in the report. “Budgetary
imbalances and expanding fixed-cost obligations have forced many
states to raise revenues or severely cut services.”  “This state-level austerity spending has discouraged some
states from adding new debt service to their budgets, and led to
increased anti-debt sentiment,” Moody’s said.  Revenue Concern  New bond sales will remain low this year because of concern
that federal fiscal policy and budget sequestration may slow the
recovery and tax-receipt increases in some areas, Moody’s said.
State revenue rose 4.1 percent last year, the company said.  In states such as Florida, where  population growth  slowed
during the recession, borrowing programs to finance new schools
and highways are done or almost completed and haven’t been
renewed, according to the report. Collectively, state debt-service costs rose 3 percent last year, compared with an 8.6
percent 2011 gain, as yields fell to the lowest since 1965.  Connecticut  has the highest net tax-supported debt per
capita, at $5,185, according to the report. It was also first in
2011. Massachusetts, Hawaii and New Jersey are next highest, at
$4,000 or more each, while Nebraska was the lowest, at $14.  Illinois , the U.S. state whose general-obligation debt is
the lowest rated by Moody’s at A2, joined six others with
“notable declines” in tax-supported debt last year, including
 Arizona , Florida and  New York , the company said.  Growth Contributors  The largest contributors to debt growth were  California ,
Massachusetts, Virginia and  Washington , according to the report.
Virginia, with top-rated bonds, ranked 19th in debt per capita,
at $1,315 last year, while A1 rated California was seventh at
$2,565 and Aa1 graded Washington was sixth at $2,817.  Puerto Rico , with the lowest investment-grade ratings from
both Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s , has per-capita debt of
$14,053, according to the report. The island of 3.7 million
residents, one-fifth the population of Florida, has more than
twice the net tax-supported debt of the Sunshine State.  Only California and New York, with about $98 billion and
$62 billion in such debt outstanding, respectively, owe more
than Puerto Rico. The Caribbean commonwealth hasn’t sold any
public debt this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  