-- Stroock, Paul Hastings, Simpson Thacher: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-30T11:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/stroock-paul-hastings-simpson-thacher-business-of-law.html
Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP opened
a Washington office with two new partners, national security
lawyer Christopher Griner and Robert E. Plaze, former deputy
director of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
division of  investment management .  Griner, who will be managing partner of the Washington
office, was most recently at Kaye Scholer LLP, where he was
chairman of their national security/Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S. practice for 22 years and a former
managing partner of that office.  A Washington office “is a logical expansion of the firm,”
Stroock’s co-managing partners Stuart Coleman and Alan Klinger
said in a statement. “Chris Griner is both an exceptional
lawyer and a skilled manager, and his renown in national
security/CFIUS compliance presented an opportunity to add a
market-leading practice area that complements Stroock’s
strengths in areas such as private M&A, government relations,
energy, project finance and financial services regulation.”  Plaze, who has been at the SEC for 30 years, is one of
eight corporate partners with principal responsibility for the
representation of almost 800 mutual funds, closed-end funds,
ETFs or business development companies as well as investment
advisers, industry service providers and unregistered pooled
investment vehicles, according to his firm bio.  “Bob Plaze is widely regarded as a key architect of many
of the rules governing regulated investment advisers, investment
companies and private fund advisers,” Stuart Coleman, who heads
Stroock’s investment management group said in a statement. “His
work has shaped the modern regulation of the asset management
industry in so many different ways.”  Stroock has 750 employees in  New York , Miami and Los
Angeles.  Deals  Paul Hastings, Simpson Thacher on $4.72 Billion Shuanghui Deal  Paul Hastings  LLP and Troutman Sanders LLP are serving as
legal counsel to Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd., China’s
biggest pork producer, which agreed to acquire  Smithfield Foods
Inc. (SFD)  for about $4.72 billion to boost supplies for the nation
that’s the biggest consumer of the meat. Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP and McGuireWoods LLP were legal advisers for
Smithfield. Paul Hastings also advised Shuanghui on the
financing associated with the transaction.  The Paul Hastings team on the transaction was led by
Raymond Li, partner and chairman of Greater China. Paul Hastings
chairman of global merger and acquisitions Carl Sanchez; finance
partner Michael Chernick; and global trade partner Scott Flicker
led the Paul Hastings team in the U.S.  The Hong Kong M&A team was led by partner Vivian Lam.
Partners from the Washington, New York, Los Angeles, London and
Paris offices of Paul Hastings also included Hamilton Loeb,
Thomas Mounteer, Todd Duffield, Erika Collins, Mario Ippolito,
Jeff Pellegrino, Charles Patrizia,  Steve Harris , Alexander Lee
and Pierre Kirch, Garrett Hayes and C. Scott Hataway.  Simpson Thacher is representing Smithfield Foods with a
team led by corporate partners Rob Spatt and Patrick Naughton.
Additional partners include Andrea Wahlquist, ECEB; Kevin Arquit
and Peter Thomas, regulatory; Gary Mandel, tax; Lori Lesser, IP;
and Alden Millard, banking and credit. Beijing partner Shaolin
Luo and Hong Kong partner Leiming Chen also worked on the deal.  Troutman Sanders’s Richmond partners R. Mason Bayler Jr.,
David I. Meyers and Coburn R. Beck worked on the deal.  MaguireWoods partners David N. Oakey, Steven D. Kittrell
and James M. Anderson III also worked on the deal.  Skadden is advising Barclays, financial adviser to
Smithfield Foods, Inc. The Skadden team was led by New York-based mergers and acquisitions partners Paul Schnell and Neil Stronski.  Shuanghui, parent of  Henan Shuanghui Investment &
Development Co. (000895) , will pay $34 a share for the Smithfield,
Virginia-based producer, both companies said yesterday in a
statement. The price represents a 31 percent premium over The
May 28 closing share price.  Smithfield shareholder Continental Grain Co. has been
pushing for a change at the meat producer in the last few
months. Smithfield should consider splitting into three
businesses -- one selling pork and packaged meats, another that
runs hog farms, and a third based outside the U.S. -- because
the unprofitable hog-raising unit hurts returns, Continental
Grain said in a letter in March. The shareholder’s request came
after Smithfield’s stock trailed  Hormel Foods Corp. (HRL)  and  Tyson
Foods Inc. (TSN) ’s in the prior year.  A deal is likely to face scrutiny by the Committee on
Foreign Investment in the U.S., said two people familiar with
the situation who asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  The deal is valued at $7.1 billion including debt,
according to both companies. That would make it the largest
Chinese takeover of a U.S. company, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Shearman Advises Service Corp. in $1.4 Billion Deal for Stewart  Shearman & Sterling LLP is representing  Service Corp.
International (SCI) , an operator of funeral homes and cemeteries,
which agreed to buy  Stewart Enterprises Inc. (STEI)  in a deal valued at
$1.4 billion. Jones Walker LLP served as legal adviser to
Stewart in connection with the transaction. Latham & Watkins LLP
served as legal adviser to Frank B. Stewart Jr., chairman of the
board of directors, in connection with the transaction.  The Shearman team included New York mergers and
acquisitions partners John Marzulli and Robert Katz, as well as
partners: Doreen Lilienfeld, executive compensation and employee
benefits; Dale Collins, antitrust; Jessica Delbaum, antitrust;
Jonathan DeSantis,  capital markets ; Robert Evans, capital
markets; and Michael Shulman, tax.  Jones Walker partners included Dionne M. Rousseau, lead
transaction counsel; Mark A. Cunningham and David G. Radlauer,
lead antitrust counsel; Amy G. Scafidel, lead finance counsel;
Kelly C. Simoneaux, lead executive compensation counsel; Timothy
P. Brechtel, lead benefits counsel; and Allen E. Frederic III,
corporate and securities counsel.  Latham lawyers advising Frank B. Stewart Jr. included a
corporate deal team from the firm’s  Los Angeles  office led by
partners Paul Tosetti and Jason Silvera.  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP is
representing Goldman Sachs, financial adviser to the special
committee of Stewart’s board of directors. The Fried Frank team
included corporate partners John Sorkin and Gus Atiyah.  The offer of $13.25 a share is 36 percent more than Stewart
Enterprises’ closing price May 28. The acquisition has been
approved by the boards of both companies, according to a
statement yesterday.  Stewart Enterprises, founded in 1910, runs funeral homes in
24 states and employs 5,000 people, according to its  website .
The combination is expected to have pro forma revenue of almost
$3 billion and generate about $60 million in annual cost
savings, the companies said.  Service Corp. owned and operated 1,437 funeral homes and
374 cemeteries in 43 states as of March 31, according to the
statement.  American Realty Capital to Buy CapLease in $2.2 Billion Deal  Proskauer Rose LLP is acting as legal counsel to  American
Realty Capital Properties Inc. (ARCP) , which agreed to buy  CapLease
Inc. (LSE)  in a deal valued at $2.2 billion, including debt, as it
seeks to expand its holdings of single-tenant commercial
properties. Hunton & Williams LLP is legal counsel to CapLease.
Miles & Stockbridge PC is Maryland counsel to ARCP and Venable
LLP is Maryland counsel to CapLease.  The Proskauer legal team is led by real estate capital
markets group co-head/partner Peter Fass and mergers and
acquisitions group partner Daniel Ganitsky, and includes
partners: Andrew Bettwy, corporate; Ira Bogner, employee
benefits; Steven Lichtenfeld, co-head of the real estate capital
markets group; and Les Loffman, tax.  Hunton & Williams legal team included partners: Steven M.
Haas and G. Roth Kehoe, II, mergers and acquisitions; and Mark
C. Van Deusen, tax.  Venable’s partners who worked on the deal are Christopher
Pate and Sharon Kroupa.  American Realty agreed to pay $8.50 a share for CapLease’s
common stock, or about $755 million, according to a  regulatory
filing  May 28 from the New York-based real estate investment
trust. That’s 20 percent higher than the closing price of $7.10
on May 24. CapLease preferred shares will be converted into the
right to receive $25 a share in cash plus accrued dividends.  CapLease, based in New York, owns real estate across the
U.S. ranging from single-tenant office buildings to distribution
centers. Its largest tenants include the federal government, Aon
Corp. and Kroger Co., according to the filing. The  acquisition ,
which is expected to be completed in the third quarter, will add
more than 70 properties to American Realty’s portfolio, bringing
its total to about 800.  American Realty intends to assume about $580 million of
CapLease’s $1.2 billion in debt and and repay the rest,
according to the filing. The cost of paying the preferred shares
and the balance of the debt is equal to about $879 million, said
Anthony DeFazio, an American Realty spokesman with outside firm
DDCworks.  The deal is expected to add about 11 cents a share to
American Realty’s adjusted funds from operations, and the REIT
plans to increase its  dividend  by 3 cents a share. Almost all of
CapLease’s senior management will join the new company.  For more, click here.  News  Obama Said to Pick Former Bush Official Comey as Next FBI Chief  President  Barack Obama  plans to nominate James B. Comey, a
deputy attorney general under President  George W. Bush , to
become the next FBI director, according to two people briefed on
the selection.  Comey, 52, was general counsel at  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and
then hedge fund Bridgewater Associates LP after he left the
government. Most recently he was appointed to the board of
London-based bank  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  as a nonexecutive director.  Obama chose Comey over  Lisa Monaco , his counterterrorism
and homeland security adviser who was chief of staff to current
FBI Director Robert S. Mueller, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the move hasn’t yet been announced.  Comey, a University of Chicago-trained lawyer, served as
acting attorney general in 2004 at a critical juncture in the
 Bush administration .  Attorney General John Ashcroft was hospitalized, and Bush’s
White House advisers were attempting to persuade Ashcroft to
reauthorize a warrantless surveillance program. Comey, with
Mueller, went to his hospital room to intercept the White House
aides seeking Ashcroft’s approval. Ashcroft said he had concerns
about the legality of the plan and deferred the decision to
Comey, who refused the request.  In  testifying  before the Senate Judiciary Committee in
2007, Comey called the experience “the most difficult time in
my professional life.”  After Comey, Mueller and other top  Justice Department 
officials threatened to resign if the program was reauthorized
without their sign-off, it was revised.  Following his service in the U.S. attorneys’ offices in  New
York City  and in  Virginia , Comey was deputy attorney general
from December 2003 to October 2005.  Comey is a senior research scholar and Hertog Fellow on
National Security at Columbia University Law School in New York,
according to a statement from HSBC in January. The bank named
him to a committee to combat financial crimes after paying $1.92
billion to settle money-laundering probes.  He recently stepped down from his post at Westport,
Connecticut-based Bridgewater Associates after three years and
worked from 2005 to 2010 as a senior vice president for
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin. While at the Justice
Department, he led the President’s Corporate Fraud Task Force.  Comey served from 2002 to 2003 as U.S. Attorney for the
Southern District of New York.  For more, click here.  Rothstein Law Firm Bankruptcy Disclosure Statement Approved  The bankruptcy disclosure statement for the law firm of
disbarred  Florida  attorney Scott Rothstein, who ran a $1.2
billion  Ponzi scheme  that’s the largest in Florida history, was
approved by a judge.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Raymond B. Ray, who is overseeing the
liquidation of Rothstein’s law firm in Fort Lauderdale, gave the
approval yesterday and set a confirmation hearing for July.  Several groups of investors opposed the plan by current
trustee Herbert Stettin, which included a settlement with
Toronto-Dominion Bank. The plan would bar investors from suing
TD Bank and halt pending state-court lawsuits against the bank.  Stettin’s plan included a provision for TD Bank, Canada’s
second-largest lender, to pay as much as $72 million to remove
the threat of litigation over claims it aided Rothstein’s fraud.
Rothstein is serving 50 years in prison.  TD Bank, based in Toronto, previously reached settlements
requiring it to pay $263.7 million to investors, and lost a $67
million verdict in the only case to go to trial.  “My clients will be cheated out of their claims,” said
Harley Tropin, attorney for a group of creditors that oppose the
trustees plan. “TD Bank is paying them because of people like
Bill Scherer, Harley Tropin and  David Mandel  and their fear of
facing us in a  jury trial .”  Bill Scherer represents 80 investors claiming $228 million
in losses. Tropin claimed one group of clients that he
represents could lose as much as $360 million and potential
claims against TD Bank, including punitive damages and interest.
David Mandel represented creditors that won punitive damages in
a trial against TD Bank.  The creditors committee, which opposed the previous plan,
supported the amended plan yesterday, as did several other
creditors who had opposed it earlier.  “We just don’t understand why creditors are objecting to a
plan that gives them a hundred percent in a Ponzi scheme,” said
 Michael Goldberg , the attorney for the creditors committee.  Chuck Throckmorton, another attorney for creditors opposed
to the plan, said that TD Bank should disclose whether it is the
subject of a criminal investigation as part of the plan. “The
creditors have a right to know that,” he said.  Rothstein’s Ponzi scheme was run from his Fort Lauderdale
law firm and involved wealthy investors buying stakes in what he
said were payouts in confidential sexual-harassment and
workplace-bias cases.  The cases were fabricated. Rothstein used forged court
documents and phony bank records to sell the scheme to
investors, including  hedge funds  and South Florida businessmen.
At least 10 people, including Rothstein’s wife, were convicted
of crimes.  TD Bank was sanctioned in August by a federal judge in
Miami who said it “willfully” concealed evidence relevant to
the trial over whether it aided the Ponzi scheme. She ordered a
finding that the bank’s fraud alerts and monitoring systems were
“unreasonable and that TD Bank had actual knowledge of
Rothstein’s fraud.”  The bankruptcy case is In re Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler,
09-bk-34791,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of Florida
(Fort Lauderdale). The criminal case is U.S. v. Rothstein, 12-cr-60204, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  Moves  Three Venable Partners Join McKenna’s White Collar Practice  McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP announced that Nancy Grunberg,
Treazure Johnson and George Kostolampros join the firm as
partners in the white collar and criminal defense practice in
Washington. The three join from Venable LLP where Grunberg
served as co-head of the SEC and white collar defense practice
group.  “As MLA continues to focus on strategic growth, we are
thrilled to bring this talented team of securities litigators on
board,” Jeff Haidet, chairman of MLA said in a statement. “The
exceptional SEC experience that Nancy, Treazure, and George each
bring to the firm will further support and expand the services
we provide to our clients.”  Grunberg previously spent nine years with the SEC during
two separate tenures, the second as assistant director in the
division of enforcement, the firm said. Johnson and Kostolampros
also worked at the SEC, as senior assistant chief litigation
counsel and senior counsel in the division of enforcement
respectively.  Prior to joining the firm, all three have represented
clients in SEC and criminal securities investigations, as well
as advised individuals and businesses in criminal and regulatory
investigations and prosecutions in the areas of  securities
fraud , bank fraud, health care fraud and public corruption.  MLA has more than 575 attorneys and public policy advisers
in 16 offices and 13 markets.  Jones Day Hires Two Banking and Finance Partners in Chicago  Jones Day  announced that Loren Weil and Matt O’Meara joined
the Chicago office as partners in the global banking and finance
practice. Both were previously with Winston & Strawn LLP where
they were partners in that firm’s banking practice.  Weil concentrates his practice on corporate finance
transactions. He has represented financial institutions in
secured and unsecured loan transactions in connection with
sponsored acquisitions and other leveraged buyouts,
recapitalizations, and senior debt facilities established for
large corporate and middle market borrowers, the firm said.  O’Meara concentrates his practice on corporate finance
transactions with a particular focus on large and middle-market
leveraged buyout transactions. He also has experience advising
on financing structures including  cash flow , asset based, and
mezzanine finance transactions.  Since opening in 1987, the Chicago office of Jones Day has
grown to more than 170 lawyers. The firm has more than 2,400
lawyers at 36 offices worldwide.  Seyfarth Hires Trio of Partners for Corporate, Litigation Work  Seyfarth Shaw LLP announced today the addition of three
partners to the New York office across several practices. Rajiv
Khanna joins the firm’s corporate department from K&L Gates LLP,
Edward Maluf joins the firm’s litigation department from Bingham
McCutchen LLP and  Philip Smith  joins Seyfarth’s litigation
department from Patton Boggs LLP.  Khanna focuses his practice on domestic, cross-border and
multijurisdictional M&A transactions, corporate finance, project
finance and real estate. Maluf’s practice includes general
commercial litigation, with a primary focus on copyright,
trademark, trade dress, and false advertising work. Smith’s
practice focuses on securities litigation; SEC investigations
and enforcement matters; and other complex commercial
litigation, the firm said.  Seyfarth’s New York office has about 125 attorneys. The
firm has more than 800 attorneys at 12 offices in the U.S.,
London and Shanghai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 