-- Subbarao Says Retail Inflation ‘High,’ Flags Trade Gap Pressure
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-05-30T14:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/subbarao-says-retail-inflation-high-flags-trade-gap-pressure.html
India ’s central bank governor said
retail inflation remains elevated, flagged the challenge from a
record current-account deficit and reiterated slowing economic
growth is a concern.  “Inflation has been high for the last two years and only
over the last few months it has slowed but retail inflation is
still high,”  Duvvuri Subbarao  said in a speech in the western
Indian city of Ahmedabad today. “The external sector and
balance of payment is under stress.”  Subbarao lowered the  repurchase rate  to 7.25 percent from
7.50 percent on May 3, the third straight quarter-point cut,
part of a wave of monetary easing this month from  Asia  to
 Europe . The  Reserve Bank of India  is trying to revive
investment, with a report tomorrow set to show the economy
expanded at a decade-low 5 percent last fiscal year, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Investment growth has decelerated,” Subbarao said,
adding “today’s investment is tomorrow’s production capacity.”
The economic picture is “a cause for concern,” he said.  Bonds fell and the rupee weakened following Subbarao’s
comments. The yield on the 8.15 percent note maturing June 2022
rose to 7.44 percent from 7.39 percent yesterday, while the
rupee depreciated 0.4 percent to 56.375 per dollar. The S&P BSE
Sensex index closed up 0.3 percent before the speech.  The deficit in the current-account swelled to $32.6 billion
in the quarter ended Dec. 31, or 6.7 percent of gross domestic
product, stoked by gold and oil imports and subdued exports.  Rupee Depreciation  For the 12 months through March 2013, the gap may be 5
percent of GDP, Subbarao said today, adding the indications are
that GDP rose 5 percent last fiscal year.  The trade imbalance has weighed on the rupee, which is down
4.6 percent in the past month, the worst performer in a basket
of 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Rupee depreciation is a problem because it pushes up the
cost of our imports, it increases debt servicing, it causes
inflation and it erodes our external payment situation,”
Subbarao said. “People argue that rupee depreciation is a good
thing because it helps your exports. I’m not so sure. In a not
yet matured economy like ours, export competitiveness comes from
improvement in productivity. We don’t gain much from  currency
depreciation .”  The current-account shortfall is “by far the biggest
risk” to the economy, according to the  Reserve Bank , leaving
India exposed to the risk of a reversal in capital inflows.  Inflation based on  wholesale prices  eased to 4.89 percent
in April, a 41-month low. The  consumer gauge  rose 9.39 percent
in the same month from a year earlier.  Subbarao signaled May 4 that India has almost no space left
to loosen monetary policy further.  GDP growth was 4.8 percent in January through March from a
year earlier as expansion held below 5 percent for a second
quarter, according to the median estimate in another Bloomberg
survey ahead of tomorrow’s data release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  