-- Suzlon Reports Record Loss as Debt Burden Stalls Business
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-05-30T17:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/suzlon-reports-record-loss-as-debt-burden-stalls-business.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the wind-turbine
maker behind India’s biggest convertible-bond default, reported
a record quarterly loss as the business stalled under mounting
debts.  The group’s net loss widened sixfold to 19.1 billion rupees
($338 million) in the fiscal fourth quarter ended March 31, the
company said in an e-mailed statement today. It posted its
fourth straight yearly loss of 47 billion rupees.  Operations at the world’s fifth-largest maker of wind
turbines had come to a “complete standstill” as a cash
shortfall held up orders and management negotiated with
creditors, Group Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said in a
phone interview today. “Now things are flowing again, and the
business is getting our full attention.”  The company wants to raise $400 million this financial year
by selling about 15 assets, Vagadia said. That includes units
Suzlon Energy (Tianjin) Ltd. and SE Forge Ltd., a U.S. facility,
as well as other component-manufacturing and assembly plants.  “We should get traction on asset sales every quarter,”
Vagadia said. “The whole process should take 12 to 18 months.”  Suzlon is struggling to pay down debt racked up in overseas
acquisitions, which included its German unit REpower Systems SE,
before a global supply glut slashed turbine prices by 25 percent
from their peak in 2009. The Pune-based company ceded its
position as  India ’s top wind-turbine supplier in its home market
for the first time in at least a decade last year as it sought
to contain its liabilities.  Debt Restructuring  Vagadia said the company will regain the top spot as it
focuses again on executing orders following a 95 billion-rupee
debt reorganization plan concluded last month with lenders. “I
don’t have a 1 percent doubt,” he said.  That plan gives Suzlon about four years of breathing space
before repayments ramp up, according to an investor presentation
sent by e-mail today. Under the terms, there is a two-year
moratorium on the entire 95 billion rupees. Ten billion rupees
will be due over three years, and increasingly bigger payments
will be made starting in April, 2017. Total group debt was 152
billion rupees as of March 31, up 8 percent from last year,
according to the presentation.  Suzlon failed to repay $209 million in October in India’s
biggest convertible-bond default. That triggered a cross default
on another $121 million of convertible notes maturing in July
2014 and $190 million in April 2016.  Bondholders have not yet exercised their right to demand
early repayment under the cross-default clause, Suzlon said in a
filing today. “There exists a material uncertainty” about the
company’s ability to continue as a going concern, it said in the
filing.  Vagadia said the company is negotiating a solution that
will address all bondholders at once. “I’d have preferred to
have a solution yesterday,” he said. “We are in active
dialogue.”  The board approved a proposal to raise as much as 50
billion rupees through the issuance of shares, bonds or other
instruments if necessary, the company said in a statement to the
Bombay Stock Exchange today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  