-- Swiss Economy Expands More Than Forecast on Consumption
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-05-30T07:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/swiss-economy-grows-more-than-expected-on-consumption.html
Switzerland’s economy expanded more
than forecast in the first quarter, with  consumer spending 
helping it perform better than the neighboring euro area.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.6 percent from the fourth
quarter, when it advanced by a revised 0.3 percent, the State
Secretariat for Economic Affairs in Bern said in a statement
today. Economists predicted a rise of 0.2 quarter-on-quarter, 
the median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  “We expected half that growth,” said Cornelia Luchsinger,
an economist at Zuercher Kantonalbank. “It’s a positive
surprise.”  The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  set a cap of 1.20 per euro on the
franc in 2011 to ward off deflation and a recession. Along with
consumer demand, that ceiling has helped shield  Switzerland  
from the six quarters of recession that have afflicted the euro 
area, the destination for nearly half its exports.  Germany , the 
bloc’s largest economy, expanded only 0.1 percent in the first 
quarter.  An easing of tensions in the euro area caused the euro to
rise 0.8 percent in the first quarter against the franc, which
investors tend to buy when they seek safe assets. The Swiss
currency was little changed at 1.2433 at 9:05 a.m. in Zurich.
Against the dollar it climbed 0.3 percent at 95.94 centimes.  Falling Prices  While Switzerland has managed to escape an economic slump,
consumer prices are still falling. In April, they recorded their
19th straight month of annual declines, and last week SNB
President Thomas Jordan said there was no risk of inflation for
the foreseeable future.  “It’s nice that we have this print, but the SNB has a
mandate for  price stability ,” Luchsinger said. “So long as we
don’t see a change in inflation these figures today won’t raise
the pressure on the SNB.”  Domestic demand is the biggest driver of Swiss economic
growth, accounting for about 57 percent of output last year,
while net exports made up 10 percent. In the first quarter of
2013, household consumption increased 0.6 percent from the end
of December and construction investment climbed 0.3 percent,
according to the statement.  According to the SNB’s most recent prognosis, given in
March, GDP is expected to expand between 1 percent and 1.5
percent this year. It will update that forecast at its next
policy review on June 20.  A adjustment of the franc cap and negative  interest rates 
are among steps the central bank could take to prevent a
tightening of monetary conditions,Jordan said last week. The
central bank stands ready to take further steps, should it deem
them necessary, Jordan also said, reiterating previous comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  