-- Swiss Stocks Climb as Economy Grows More Than Forecas
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-05-30T10:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/swiss-stocks-climb-as-economy-grows-more-than-forecas.html
Stocks in Switzerland  advanced, with
the benchmark Swiss Market Index heading for its ninth
consecutive monthly gain, as the economy grew more than forecast
and investors awaited U.S. property and growth data.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  climbed 2.3 percent for the best
performance on the gauge.  Sulzer (SUN)  AG, the pump maker, retreated 1
percent.  The  SMI (SMI)  added 0.3 percent to 8,055.57 at 12:47 p.m. in
Zurich, heading for a monthly gain of 1.9 percent. The index has
 surged about 26 percent  since the end of August 2012 as central
banks around the world continued their asset-buying programs.
The broader Swiss Performance Index also rose 0.3 percent today.  Swiss stocks slumped yesterday as concern mounted that the
Federal Reserve will begin to scale back its program of bond
purchases when the U.S. economy strengthens.  Switzerland’s economy expanded more than expected in the
first quarter.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.6 percent from the
fourth quarter, when it advanced by a revised 0.3 percent, the
State Secretariat for Economic Affairs in Bern said today.
Economists expected a rise of 0.2 quarter-on-quarter, according
to the median prediction in a Bloomberg survey.  In the U.S., a report at 10 a.m.  New York  time may show an
index of pending home sales increased 1.5 percent in April,
matching the gain the prior month, according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Separately, the Commerce Department will release revised
data at 8:30 a.m. that may show the U.S. economy grew at a 2.5
percent annualized rate in the first quarter, the same as
estimated last month.  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland’s second-biggest bank , gained
2.3 percent to 28.48 Swiss francs.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. climbed 0.8 percent to 38.11 francs.
Switzerland’s third-largest wealth manager is seeking to resolve
a tax dispute with the U.S this year with an “affordable”
settlement, Chief Executive Officer  Boris Collardi  said.  Sulzer lost 1 percent to 161.60 francs, the lowest price in
three weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  