-- Swiss Property Prices to Slow on Lower Immigration, ZKB Says
-- B y   B e a t r i c e   F a e s s l e r
-- 2013-05-30T15:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/swiss-property-prices-to-slow-on-lower-immigration-zkb-says.html
Swiss immigration is expected to
slow, taking pressure off the country’s booming  property market ,
according to Zuercher Kantonalbank.  Reduced immigration will probably cut the rise in Zurich
apartment prices to 3.5 percent this year and 3 percent in 2014
from 7.2 percent in 2012, the bank said in a report today.
Luxury properties may be particularly affected because of a
decline in skilled immigrants from  Germany  and other central
European countries. Prices for such properties may be reaching a
turning point, ZKB said.  “Due to lower immigration in the coming years, we expect
more moderate price increases in the Swiss property market,”
ZKB Chief Economist Anastassios Frangulidis said in the report.  Immigration and cheap credit have bolstered demand for
housing. With the central bank easing monetary policy to take
pressure off the franc,  Switzerland  is experiencing the biggest
surge in real-estate prices in 20 years.  A net inflow of 103,000 people reached a historic peak in
2008 after years of strong economic growth and an agreement
removing immigration obstacles between Switzerland and the
European Union that took effect in 2002. The limit on residence
permits for EU citizens that Switzerland imposed in April is one
of the factors limiting further growth in immigration. Net
immigration in 2011 fell more than 40 percent compared with
2008, according to the report.  Education Demand  While less employment will be available in construction and
the public sector and the financial industry will be cutting
staff, industrial and tourism jobs should grow in the coming
five years.  That means future immigrants will need to have different
professional skills and education, ZKB said. Industry and
tourism probably will attract immigration from countries with
high unemployment rates, including  Spain ,  Italy ,  Portugal  and
 Greece .  Increasing numbers of Swiss citizens with good academic
training might be closing a shortfall in highly qualified
workers and help offset a decline of about 30 percent in net
German immigration between 2008 and 2011, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beatrice Faessler in Zurich at 
 bfaessler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  