-- U.K. Lawmakers Urge Regulator to Be Tougher on Consumer Credit
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-05-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/u-k-lawmakers-urge-regulator-to-be-tougher-on-consumer-credit.html
The U.K.’s retail credit market
regulator lacks adequate information on lenders and should be
more aggressive toward firms that breach consumer protection
rules, a panel of lawmakers said.  The  Office of Fair Trading , which will be replaced by the
 Financial Conduct Authority  as the U.K.’s  consumer credit 
regulator in 2014, has been “ineffective and timid in the
extreme,”  Margaret Hodge , an opposition Labour lawmaker who
leads the Public Accounts Committee, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Lawmakers are concerned by “widespread irresponsible
behavior” in the market for pay-day loans, where firms lend
small amounts for a short time at a high rate of interest, the
panel said in its report today. The OFT has given the largest 50
pay-day lenders until the end of this month to improve their
conduct or face losing their license to lend.  “Some of these lenders use predatory techniques to target
vulnerable people on low incomes, encouraging them to take out
loans which, when rolled over with extra interest, rapidly
become out of control debts,” said Hodge. “Such disgraceful
practices by the shabby end of the credit market are costing
borrowers an estimated 450 million pounds or more each year.”  The OFT should also charge big lenders, such as credit card
companies, higher license fees than smaller companies, Hodge
said.  Largest Market  About 176 billion pounds ($267 billion) was lent to
consumers in the financial year ending in March 2012, according
to the report, making the U.K. market one of the largest in the
27-member European Union. The regulator has been too passive and
has never fined any of the 72,000 firms that make up the
industry, the panel said.  The lawmakers also recommended that lenders should be
required to tell customers in advance how much they have to pay
back including interest.  “Far from being timid, the OFT has taken strong, targeted
action to tackle the areas of greatest risk to consumers,” an
OFT spokesman said in an e-mailed statement. “In the last
financial year alone the OFT has revoked the licences of some of
the UK’s largest credit brokers and debt management firms, and
taken formal action in more than 85 other cases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  