-- U.K. Authorities Say Ryanair May Need to Sell Aer Lingus Stake
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-05-30T06:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/u-k-authorities-say-ryanair-may-need-to-sell-aer-lingus-stake.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  may be required
by U.K. competition authorities to trim its stake in  Aer Lingus
Group Plc (AERL)  over concerns that its 29.8 percent holding may lead
to higher prices on routes between the U.K. and Ireland.  The airline’s stake, valued at about 280 million euros
($363 million) based on Aer Lingus’s market value, gives Ryanair
“the ability to influence the commercial policy and strategy”
of its Irish rival, the U.K. Competition Commission said in a
statement today. The watchdog didn’t say by how much the budget
carrier may need to reduce its stake.  Europe ’s largest discount airline has been wrangling with
regulators since acquiring the Aer Lingus shares in 2006. Its
third and most recent takeover bid was blocked in February by
the European Commission, which ruled it would increase fares and
reduce choice. Ryanair called the findings in today’s report
“bizarre’ and that it may appeal a decision.  The two airlines, both based in Dublin, carry more than 80
percent of the 370,000 passengers that travel between the U.K.
and Ireland each month, regulators have said. Potential remedies
outlined by the agency include the full or partial sale of the
Aer Lingus stake by Ryanair.  ‘‘Against a background of consolidation in the  airline
industry , Ryanair’s shareholding obstructs Aer Lingus’s ability
to merge or combine with another airline to build scale and
achieve synergies to remain competitive,” the agency said. The
holding also means Ryanair can block special resolutions and
limit plans to issue shares or raise capital, they said,  Today’s report is provisional and Ryanair will be given
time to respond before a final decision is released by July 11.
Ryanair will also be able to appeal to the U.K. Competition
Appeal Tribunal. The regulators typically give companies as long
as a year to sell down the stake.  The Commission said today that it is seeking views on how
much of the holding Ryanair should be required to sell and if
other measures are needed to protect competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  