-- U.K. Faces Complaint on Foreigner Benefits, Fanning EU Row
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-05-30T13:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/u-k-faces-court-case-over-foreigner-benefits-riling-eu-debate.html
Britain was hauled to court over
restrictions on welfare benefits for workers from other European
Union countries, stoking the argument over immigration and the
U.K.’s status in the EU.  Britain, now weighing a possible pullout from the bloc,
sets an unfairly high bar in doling out childcare, jobseekers
and social-security benefits to foreigners who pay into the U.K.
system, the  European Commission  said.  The Brussels-based commission appealed to the EU’s high
court to force Britain to end the discrimination, just as Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s government explores ways of further
curbing welfare and health benefits to foreigners.  U.K. Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith vowed to
fight back, telling BBC radio: “We will do whatever it takes to
get control of our benefits system. We cannot have British
taxpayers coming under the cosh of the EU.”  The commission, which enforces EU law, said the U.K.
improperly sets a “right to reside” test to determine whether
foreign workers are eligible for benefits. The EU imposes a
looser “habitual residence” test under a policy approved by
the U.K.  ‘Hand Grenade’  Using the stricter standard, the U.K. rejected 64 percent
of 42,810 benefit applications by European residents between
2009 and 2011, the commission said in a statement. Some also
wouldn’t have qualified under the looser standard, it said.  British critics of European regulation seized on the court
case as an example of Brussels meddling that is likely to
energize the movement that wants the U.K. to become the first
country to secede from the EU.  “The European Commission has thrown a hand grenade into an
already intense debate,” Stephen Booth, director of the Open
 Europe  think tank, said in an email. “If the commission wants
to push the U.K. out of the EU, it’s doing a pretty good job.”  The commission said it isn’t pleading for a blanket
entitlement for non-British residents, noting that the EU
provisions don’t cover needs-based benefits such as income
support or housing allowances.  Costs Consequences  Britain won’t face “significant financial consequences”
by applying the EU benefits standard, the commission said. It
said that while British media have played up the potential
costs, the U.K. hasn’t produced “conclusive data.”  The commission turned the costs argument on its head. It
pointed to a 2009  study  by  University College London  which
showed that eastern European immigrant workers paid in more than
they got out of the U.K. system and were 60 percent less likely
than British natives to receive state benefits or tax credits.  The EU case won’t prompt a wave of “benefit tourism” to
Britain, commission spokesman  Jonathan Todd  told reporters. He
said there is no record of British expatriates complaining that
they have been denied similar benefits in other European
countries.  The case will be heard by the  European Court  of Justice in
Luxembourg, which typically takes about 18 months to issue a
ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  