-- U.S. First Quarter Second Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2013-05-30T12:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/u-s-first-quarter-second-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of the Gross
Domestic Product report from the Commerce Department.  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and services
produced by labor and property located in the United States --
increased at an annual rate of 2.4 percent in the first quarter
of 2013 (that is, from the fourth quarter to the first quarter),
according to the “second” estimate released by the Bureau of
Economic Analysis.  In the fourth quarter, real GDP increased
0.4 percent.  The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete source
data than were available for the “advance” estimate issued last
month.  In the advance estimate, real GDP increased 2.5 percent.
With the second estimate for the first quarter, increases in
private inventory investment, in exports, and in imports were
less than previously estimated, but the general picture of
overall economic activity is not greatly changed (for more
information, see “Revisions” on page 4).  Comprehensive Revision of the National Income and Product
Accounts  BEA plans to release the results of the 14th comprehensive (or
benchmark) revision of the national income and product accounts
(NIPAs) in conjunction with the second quarter 2013 “advance”
estimate on July 31, 2013.  More information on the revision is
available on BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov/gdp-revisions.  An
article in the March 2013 issue of the Survey of Current
Business discusses the upcoming changes in definitions and
presentations, and an article in the May Survey describes the
changes in statistical methods.  An article in the September
Survey will describe the estimates in detail.  Revised NIPA
table stubs and news release stubs will be available in June.  Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally adjusted annual
rates, unless otherwise specified. Quarter-to-quarter dollar
changes are differences between these published estimates.
Percent changes are calculated from unrounded data and are
annualized.  “Real” estimates are in chained (2005) dollars.
Price indexes are chain-type measures.  This news release is available on BEA’s Web site (www.bea.gov)
along with the Technical Note
(www.bea.gov/newsreleases/national/gdp/2013/tech1q13_2nd.htm)
and Highlights
(www.bea.gov/newsreleases/national/gdp/2013/pdf/gdp1q13_2nd_fax.
pdf) related to this release.  For information on revisions, see
“Revisions to GDP, GDI, and Their Major Components”
( http://www.bea.gov/scb/pdf/2011/07  July/0711_revisions.pdf).  The increase in real GDP in the first quarter primarily
reflected positive contributions from personal consumption
expenditures (PCE), private inventory investment, residential
fixed investment, nonresidential fixed investment, and exports
that were partly offset by negative contributions from federal
government spending and state and local government spending.
Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP,
increased.  The acceleration in real GDP in the first quarter primarily
reflected an upturn in private inventory investment, an
acceleration in PCE, a smaller decrease in federal government
spending, and an upturn in exports that were partly offset by an
upturn in imports and a deceleration in nonresidential fixed
investment.  Motor vehicle output added 0.28 percentage point to the
first-quarter change in real GDP after adding 0.18 percentage
point to the fourth-quarter change.  Final sales of computers
added 0.02 percentage point to the first-quarter change in real
GDP after adding 0.10 percentage point to the fourth-quarter
change.  The price index for gross domestic purchases, which
measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased 1.2 percent in
the first quarter, 0.1 percentage point more than in the advance
estimate; this index increased 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter.
Excluding food and energy prices, the price index for gross
domestic purchases increased 1.4 percent in the first quarter,
compared with an increase of 1.2 percent in the fourth.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased 3.4
percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 1.8
percent in the fourth.  Durable goods increased 8.2 percent,
compared with an increase of 13.6 percent.  Nondurable goods
increased 2.2 percent, compared with an increase of 0.1 percent.
Services increased 3.1 percent, compared with an increase of 0.6
percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 2.2 percent
in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 13.2 percent
in the fourth.  Nonresidential structures decreased 3.5 percent,
in contrast to an increase of 16.7 percent.  Equipment and
software increased 4.6 percent, compared with an increase of
11.8 percent.  Real residential fixed investment increased 12.1
percent, compared with an increase of 17.6 percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 0.8 percent in
the first quarter, in contrast to a decrease of 2.8 percent in
the fourth.  Real imports of goods and services increased 1.9
percent, in contrast to a decrease of 4.2 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures and gross
investment decreased 8.7 percent in the first quarter, compared
with a decrease of 14.8 percent in the fourth.  National defense
decreased 12.1 percent, compared with a decrease of 22.1 percent.
Nondefense decreased 2.1 percent, in contrast to an increase of
1.7 percent.  Real state and local government consumption
expenditures and gross investment decreased 2.4 percent,
compared with a decrease of 1.5 percent.  The change in real private inventories added 0.63
percentage point to the first-quarter change in real GDP, after
subtracting 1.52 percentage points from the fourth-quarter
change.  Private businesses increased inventories $38.3 billion
in the first quarter, following an increases of $13.3 billion in
the fourth quarter and $60.3 billion in the third.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less change in
private inventories -- increased 1.8 percent in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of 1.9 percent in the fourth.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced -- increased
2.5 percent in the first quarter; it was unchanged in the fourth
quarter.  Gross national product  Real gross national product -- the goods and services
produced by the labor and property supplied by U.S. residents --
increased 1.5 percent in the first quarter, compared with an
increase of 0.9 percent in the fourth.  GNP includes, and GDP
excludes, net receipts of income from the rest of the world,
which decreased $30.3 billion in the first quarter after
increasing $19.2 billion in the fourth; in the first quarter,
receipts decreased $20.8 billion, and payments increased $9.5
billion.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the nation’s
output of goods and services -- increased 3.6 percent, or $140.4
billion, in the first quarter to a level of $16,004.5 billion.
In the fourth quarter, current-dollar GDP increased 1.3 percent,
or $53.1 billion.  Gross domestic income  Real gross domestic income (GDI), which measures the output
of the economy as the costs incurred and the incomes earned in
the production of GDP, increased 2.5 percent in the first
quarter, compared with an increase of 5.5 percent (revised) in
the fourth.  For a given quarter, the estimates of GDP and GDI
may differ for a variety of reasons, including the incorporation
of largely independent source data.  However, over longer time
spans, the estimates of GDP and GDI tend to follow similar
patterns of change.  Revisions  The “second” estimate of the third-quarter percent change
in GDP is 0.1 percentage point, or $3.9 billion, less than the
advance estimate issued last month, primarily reflecting
downward revisions to private inventory investment, to exports,
and to state and local government spending that were partly
offset by a downward revision to imports and an upward revision
to personal consumption expenditures.  Corporate Profits  Profits from current production (corporate profits with
inventory valuation and capital consumption adjustments)
decreased $43.8 billion in the first quarter, in contrast to an
increase of $45.4 billion in the fourth.  Current-production
cash flow (net cash flow with inventory valuation adjustment) --
the internal funds available to corporations for investment --
increased $110.9 billion in the first quarter, in contrast to a
decrease of $89.8 billion in the fourth.  Taxes on corporate income decreased $13.6 billion in the
first quarter, compared with a decrease of $4.4 billion in the
fourth.  Profits after tax with inventory valuation and capital
consumption adjustments decreased $30.2 billion in the first
quarter, in contrast to an increase of $49.8 billion in the
fourth.  Dividends decreased $101.7 billion in contrast to an
increase of $124.3 billion. The large fourth-quarter increase
reflected accelerated and special dividends paid by corporations
at the end of 2012 in anticipation of changes to individual
income tax rates.  Current-production undistributed profits
increased $71.4 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $74.3
billion.  Domestic profits of financial corporations decreased $2.0
billion in the first quarter, compared with a decrease of $3.5
billion in the fourth.  Domestic profits of nonfinancial
corporations decreased $8.8 billion in the first quarter, in
contrast to an increase of $24.8 billion in the fourth.  In the
first quarter, real gross value added of nonfinancial
corporations increased, and profits per unit of real value added
decreased.  The decrease in unit profits reflected an increase
in the unit nonlabor costs incurred by corporations that was
partly offset by a decrease in unit labor costs; unit prices
were unchanged.  The rest-of-the-world component of profits decreased $33.0
billion in the first quarter, in contrast to an increase of
$24.1 billion in the fourth.  This measure is calculated as (1)
receipts by U.S. residents of earnings from their foreign
affiliates plus dividends received by U.S. residents from
unaffiliated foreign corporations minus (2) payments by U.S.
affiliates of earnings to their foreign parents plus dividends
paid by U.S. corporations to unaffiliated foreign residents.
The first-quarter decrease was accounted for by a decrease in
receipts and an increase in payments.  Profits before tax decreased $49.8 billion in the first
quarter, in contrast to an increase of $27.3 billion in the
fourth.  The before-tax measure of profits does not reflect, as
does profits from current production, the capital consumption
and inventory valuation adjustments.  These adjustments convert
depreciation of fixed assets and inventory withdrawals reported
on a tax-return, historical-cost basis to the current-cost
measures used in the national income and product accounts.  The
capital consumption adjustment increased $12.9 billion in the
first quarter (from -$199.5 billion to -$186.6 billion),
compared with an increase of $0.5 billion in the fourth.  The
inventory valuation adjustment decreased $6.9 billion (from -
$9.2 billion  to -$16.1 billion), in contrast to an increase of
$17.6 billion.  The first-quarter changes in taxes on corporate income and
in the capital consumption adjustment mainly reflect the
expiration of bonus depreciation claimed under the American
Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.  For detailed data, see the table
“Net Effects of the Tax Acts of 2002, 2003, 2008, 2009, 2010,
and 2012 on Selected Measures of Corporate Profits” at
www.bea.gov/national/xls/technote_tax_acts.xls.  Profits from
current production are not affected because they do not depend
on the depreciation-accounting practices used for federal income
tax returns; rather, they are based on depreciation of fixed
assets valued at current cost using consistent depreciation
profiles based on used-asset prices. For more details on the
effect of tax act provisions on the capital consumption
adjustment, see FAQ #999 on the BEA Web site, “Why does the
capital consumption adjustment for domestic business decline so
much in the first quarter of 2012?”
(www.bea.gov/faq/index.cfm?faq_id=999&searchQuery=999&start=0&ca
t_id=0).  BEA’s national, international, regional, and industry
estimates; the Survey of Current Business; and BEA news releases
are available without charge on BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov.
By visiting the site, you can also subscribe to receive free e-mail summaries of BEA releases and announcements.  Next release -- June 26, 2013, at 8:30 A.M. EDT for:
Gross Domestic Product:  First Quarter 2013 (Third Estimate)
Corporate Profits:  First Quarter (Revised Estimate)  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov . 