-- U.S. Jobs, ECB, Apple, Obama-Xi, NBA Finals: June 3-8
-- B y   D i c k   S c h u m a c h e r ,   G r e g   M i l e s   a n d   J i m   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-06-03T17:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/u-s-jobs-data-ecb-obama-xi-nba-finals-week-ahead-june-1-8.html
U.S. employers added about as many
jobs in May as the 165,000 they created the month before, data
in the coming week are likely to show.  The European Central Bank and Bank of England each will
convene to decide on monetary policy, with particular attention
on ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s press conference.  U.S. President Barack Obama will host Chinese President Xi Jinping in the first meeting between the leaders of the world’s
two-largest economies since Xi took office in March.  Nawaz Sharif  will become Pakistan’s prime minister for the
third time, having said he’ll seek peace talks with the Taliban.  The National Basketball Association finals will start.  MONDAY, JUNE 3  --Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  speaks on
“Regulatory Landscapes: A U.S. Perspective” at the
International Monetary Conference in Shanghai. She will speak
from prepared remarks and take questions from the audience.
Yellen is considered a possible successor to Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  when his second term ends in January. Yellen said on
April 16 that she favors holding the benchmark interest rate
“lower for longer,” while cautioning that some bond-market
investors may have paid too much for higher yields. 09:50 in
Shanghai (6/2 21:50 EDT).  -- HSBC Holdings Plc announces its China manufacturing purchasing
managers’ index for May , after a preliminary 49.6 figure
announced May 23. Readings above 50 indicate expansion. 09:45 in
Beijing (6/2 21:45 EDT).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Miles in  New York  at 
 gmiles1@bloomberg.net ;
Dick Schumacher in London at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net ;
Jim McDonald in Tokyo at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  