-- Utility Mega-Mergers Seen as Unlikely as Buffett Spurs Interest
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-05-30T19:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/utility-mega-mergers-seen-as-unlikely-as-buffett-spurs-interest.html
Warren Buffett ’s $5.6 billion
electricity utility takeover shows a market ripe for similar-sized deals and not mega-mergers, a utility mergers and
acquisitions adviser said.  Buffett’s MidAmerican Energy Holding Co.’s purchase of Las
Vegas-based  NV Energy Inc. (NVE) , announced yesterday, and a May 28
gas utility deal were probably spurred by a month-long drop in
stock prices that has made utilities more attractive to cash
buyers, David Herr, a Philadelphia-based managing director with
investment bank Duff & Phelps, said in a phone interview today.  “The sell-off probably provided a good opportunity to get
these deals moved across the line,” said Herr, who leads Duff &
Phelps’s energy and mining practice. Buyers looking to strike an
all-stock transaction that’s typical for large-scale mergers
won’t feel the same pressure to act because “both sides of the
equation have likely gone down with the market,” he said.  After climbing to a five-year high April 30, the Standard
and Poor’s 500 Utilities Index has dropped 8.5 percent on
investor concerns that rising  interest rates  will make utility
dividends less attractive.  The sector may see additional cash purchases of utilities
for about $1 billion to $5 billion if interest rates don’t rise,
Herr said. Mega-mergers of $20-billion power companies “would
be tough in the current pricing environment” because valuations
remain relatively high and regulators may seek to funnel merger
savings to consumers through costly concessions.  Earlier this week,  Teco Energy Inc. (TE) , a Tampa, Florida-based
utility, agreed to buy New Mexico Gas Co. from Continental
Energy Systems LLC for $950 million including debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  