-- Vattenfall Boosts Power Hedging to Offset Price Slump
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-05-31T10:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/vattenfall-boosts-power-hedging-to-offset-price-slump.html
Vattenfall AB’s sales of future power
production rose to the highest in five years as the Nordic
region’s biggest utility sought to offset a slump in prices.  All of the company’s electricity production in Germany and
the Netherlands for the current year was sold by end-March,
compared with a five-year average of 94 percent, according to
Bloomberg Industries. German next-year power, a regional
benchmark, has dropped 21 percent over the past 12 months to 
near its lowest level in eight years as the longest recession 
in the euro area curbed energy use.  Prices in Germany and the Nordic area will probably remain
near current levels for the next five years, according to
Vattenfall Chief Executive Officer Oeystein Loeseth. Generators
from Germany’s  EON SE (EOAN)  to Italy’s  Enel SpA (ENEL)  have changed their
hedging pattern and are selling more power in advance to protect
themselves from further price drops, Sven Diermeier, an analyst
at Independent Research GmbH in Frankfurt, said May 22.  “If market prices were very high, we could live with a 50
percent hedging ratio, and sell the rest on the spot market,”
Stefan Dohler, head of asset optimization and trading at
Vattenfall, said in a May 29 interview in Stockholm. “However,
prices are low, and if we want to secure a certain absolute
revenue, we need to push out more volume to the market.”  German power for next-year delivery fell to an eight-year
low of 38.35 euros a megawatt-hour on May 13, according to Marex
Spectron Group Ltd. data compiled by Bloomberg. The contract
traded at at 38.80 euros at 12:01 p.m. Berlin time today.  EON Hedges  Vattenfall’s sales of 2014 power in Germany and the
Netherlands were at 84 percent at the end of March, compared
with an average of 60 percent over the previous five years,
Chris Rogers, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries in London, said
by e-mail on May 22.  EON, Germany’s biggest utility, accelerated its forward
power sales in the first quarter. By the end of March, the
company had sold all its output for the current year, compared
with 90 percent a year earlier, the Dusseldorf-based company
said in its first-quarter report.  RWE AG (RWE) , the nation’s second
biggest utility, kept forward power sales for the current year
stable at more than 90 percent by the end of March.  The higher hedging ratios do not reflect any expectation on
Vattenfall’s part for lower power prices in the future, Loeseth
said in a May 29 interview in Stockholm.  Financial Targets  The state-owned company bases its hedging on its financial
 targets  for profitability set by the government, including
capital structure and dividend payments, for a five- to seven-year period, he said. The company had a 5.7 percent return on
average capital in the first quarter, falling short of a target
for 9 percent, according to its website.  “Hedging is not linked to power prices on the wholesale
market, which is much more of a lottery,” Loeseth said.
“Instead, we follow concrete financial targets. Hedging is all
about reducing risks, and so it shall remain.”  Vattenfall’s hedging rates for the Nordic market were lower
than in central Europe, at 76 percent for 2013 and 54 percent
for 2014, also above the company’s five-year average, according
to its earnings report.  “For us, a Nordic hedging ratio of 70 percent means we are
fully hedged in practice,” Dohler said. “If we decided to
hedge what is theoretically a normal annual production, and then
the weather turns out very dry, it gets very expensive to buy
the missing volume back from the market.”  The Nordic area meets half of its power needs by running
water through turbines, with annual variations in output of 50
to 70 terawatt-hours, depending on fickle weather conditions.
That compares with Denmark’s annual power use of 35 terawatt-hours.  “If less rain than what was expected is delivered, you may
soon face a situation where you have hedged too much, and vice
versa,” Loeseth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  