-- Venezuela Warns Colombia Over Meeting With Opposition Leader
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-05-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/venezuela-warns-colombia-over-meeting-with-opposition-leader.html
Venezuela  opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski met with Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  in a move that Venezuela’s government said could damage
relations between the neighboring countries.  Capriles discussed trade and safety along the border with
Santos yesterday in Bogota as Colombia offered to swap powdered
milk for oil to ease shortages of  consumer goods  and basic foods
in South America’s largest oil producer. Venezuelan National
Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello  called the meeting with
Capriles, who claimed fraud after losing this year’s
presidential election to Nicolas Maduro, an “aggression.”  “We’re surprised by the meeting, but it helps clarify the
position of governments that claim to be friends and then do the
contrary,” Cabello said on state television. “It’s worrying
and suspicious that a government that claims to be a friend
placed a bomb under the train of good relations.”  Santos said Sept. 26 that his country and Venezuela had
been “thinking of war” before he took steps to improve
relations at the start of his presidential term in 2010. Late
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  cut trade ties with Colombia in
2009 after the government of then-President  Alvaro Uribe  signed
a deal to increase U.S. access to military bases.  Capriles, the governor of Miranda state, also discussed
Venezuela’s institutions at the Bogota meeting, according to an
e-mailed statement from his office.  ‘Great Needs’  Colombian Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  offered to fly
to Caracas to discuss how his country can help address
Venezuela’s need for powdered milk, food and paper products.  “Venezuela has great needs, right now it has a serious
problem with supplying essential goods,” Cardenas told
reporters in Bogota. “They are a rich country, they have oil
reserves, so that simply having access to reserves or future
commitments in terms of oil could be a formula.”  The Venezuelan central bank’s scarcity index, which
measures the amount of goods that are out of stock on the
market, rose to 21.3 percent last month, the highest since it
started tracking the measure in April 2009. That’s having an
impact on inflation, which accelerated to 4.3 percent in April
from a month earlier, the fastest pace in three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  