-- Visium Adds Health-Care Royalties With Paul Capital Hires
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-05-30T12:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/visium-adds-health-care-royalties-with-paul-capital-hires.html
Visium Asset Management LP, a $4.5
billion New York-based multistrategy hedge-fund firm, hired four
people from secondary private-equity firm Paul Capital to start
investing in royalty streams from health-care companies.  Ken Macleod, John Leone, David Lippman and Julie Rahman
will join Visium from Paul Capital on June 1, according to a
company statement obtained by Bloomberg News. The group, to be
based in Visium’s  New York  and  London  offices, also will
continue to manage existing Paul Capital health-care and royalty
funds as subadviser.  Paul Capital, which buys existing investor stakes in
private-equity funds, finances private and public health-care
companies, in some cases by purchasing all or a portion of
future royalties, according to the firm’s website.  Visium, founded by Jacob Gottlieb in 2005, manages
investments in long-short equity, credit, event-driven and
multistrategy funds and has more than 100 employees, the firm
said in the statement. Event-driven managers seek to profit from
corporate events such as mergers, spinoffs and bankruptcies.  “Health-care royalty investing is a natural fit with
Visium’s growing business,” Gottlieb, Visium’s chief investment
officer, said in the statement.  Visium expanded to  Europe  from the U.S. earlier this year,
a person with knowledge of the matter said in January. The firm
hired Andrew Pickup, a former JPMorgan Chase & Co. managing
director, as a portfolio manager to work out of London, the
person said. Gottlieb, a medical school graduate who later
turned to a career in finance, is trying to broaden Visium
beyond its roots of trading equities tied to the health-care
industry.  Fund Returns  Macleod will lead the firm’s royalties investing as
managing partner of the new Visium Healthcare Finance strategy,
according to the statement. While at Paul Capital, he ran the
European investment team, which focused on the pharmaceutical
and biotechnology industries. Before that, he worked at Serono
Laboratories Inc., Abbott Laboratories and Beecham
Pharmaceuticals Pte.  Visium Balanced Fund, the firm’s $2.9 billion flagship
health-care strategy, rose 8.5 percent this year through April,
according to a performance update to clients obtained by
 Bloomberg News . The multistrategy Visium Global Fund, which has
$700 million, climbed 4.8 percent in 2013. The Balanced Fund
rose 10 percent in 2012 and Global Fund gained about 20 percent
last year, the person with knowledge of the firm said in
January.  Multistrategy funds  on average advanced 3.1 percent this
year and fell 5.7 percent in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  