-- LVMH to State Defense Against AMF’s Hermes Stake Allegations
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-05-30T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/lvmh-to-state-defense-against-amf-s-hermes-stake-allegations.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
will today respond to allegations by French market regulators
that it breached disclosure rules in building a stake in rival
 Hermes International SCA. (RMS)   LVMH will tell a Paris hearing of the Autorite des Marches
Financier’s sanctions committee that it did nothing wrong after
buying equity derivatives of Hermes shares in 2008, according to
a representative for the company who declined to be named.  The AMF has been investigating for more than two years how
LVMH acquired a stake in Hermes using cash-settlement equity
swaps. The market authority informed LVMH in October that its
board would recommend that the company be fined over the matter.
LVMH won’t be forced to give up its stake.  The world’s largest luxury-goods maker announced in October
2010 that it held 17.1 percent of Hermes after converting the
derivative instruments it bought from three banks in 2008 into
shares. LVMH, which says it isn’t seeking control of Hermes, has
since added to its holding and now owns 22.6 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault  said last month
that the company didn’t intend to become a Hermes shareholder,
having bought the derivatives originally as an investment. LVMH
planned all along to build a stake in Hermes using the swaps, Le
Monde reported last week, citing an AMF document.  LVMH decided to convert the swaps into Hermes stock because
it was concerned that settling in cash would mean millions of
Hermes shares would be released onto the market, depressing the
Kelly bag maker’s stock price and offering another competitor a
way into its capital, LVMH has said.  Holding Company  Hermes’s family owners formed a holding company in 2011 to
protect against a takeover by LVMH. H51 groups together 50.2
percent of Hermes shares held by family members and has right of
first refusal on an additional 12.3 percent. In total, 52 family
members own about three-quarters of Hermes directly.  Investors normally have to disclose holdings whenever they
cross thresholds of 5 percent increments. While equity swaps
were exempt from such rules, that doesn’t mean investors can
ignore general principles of transparency and integrity in their
financial communications, the AMF’s then Chairman  Jean-Pierre Jouyet  told Le Journal du Dimanche in November 2010.  The sanctions committee, while part of the AMF, is
independent from the board that decides whether to pursue a
case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  