-- Wal-Mart, Gap Meet With Retailers on Safety in Bangladesh
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-05-31T20:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/wal-mart-meets-with-retailers-think-tank-on-bangladesh-safety.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Gap Inc. (GPS)  are
meeting with retailers, industry associations and the Bipartisan
Policy Center to develop a plan to improve fire and safety
regulation in Bangladesh factories.  The discussions are part of the previously announced Safer
Factories Initiative organized by the Bipartisan Policy Center,
a nonprofit policy and advocacy think tank, the center said
yesterday in a  statement . The talks are co-chaired by former
U.S. Senate Majority Leader  George Mitchell  and former U.S.
Senator  Olympia Snowe .  Wal-Mart and Gap are among U.S. retailers that have faced
criticism for not joining at least 24 other garment-sellers in a
legally binding agreement to improve safety at Bangladesh
factories that has won support from labor-monitoring groups. The
Safer Factories Initiative held its first discussion May 29 in
New York and said it will release a plan by early July.  “When this formed, we were pleased to see it come
together, and we think it could really be a powerful way to move
forward,” Debbie Mesloh, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Gap, said in a telephone interview today. “This builds upon the
work that we’ve already been doing and will really help to be a
path forward with other American retailers.”  Mesloh declined to say which other retailers are involved
in discussions.  Gap rose 1.4 percent to $40.55 at the close in New York
while Wal-Mart fell 1 percent to $74.84.  Industry Standard  Five apparel and retail trade associations in the U.S. and
 Canada  announced the Safer Factories Initiative May 15. The
nonbinding proposal brings together workers, factory owners,
buyers and the Bangladeshi government to develop an industry
standard on fire and building safety, Nate Herman, vice
president for international trade for the American Apparel and
Footwear Association, said earlier this month. It also will look
to increase education, improve assessments and bolster training,
he said.  Wal-Mart and other retailers have been discussing an
agreement intended to improve conditions in  Bangladesh  since the
April 24 collapse of the Rana Plaza factory -- the worst
industrial incident in the country’s history. The accident
killed at least 1,127 and followed a series of deadly fires that
already had prompted activists to push Western retailers to take
more responsibility for  work conditions  in that country.  Wal-Mart Inspections  Wal-Mart has said it will make public safety inspections at
all of its suppliers’ authorized factories in Bangladesh.
Reviews of the 279 plants will be completed within six months,
and the factory names and inspection information will be posted
on its website, the company said earlier this month. The world’s
largest retailer said the costs of the remediation and safety
improvements will be reflected in its costs of goods purchased.  “We’ve taken a number of actions that meet or exceed other
factory safety proposals,”  Kevin Gardner , a spokesman for the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company, wrote yesterday in an e-mail. “Taking part in the development of this broader safety
plan with other brands, retailers and the Bipartisan Policy
Center, building upon our previously announced commitments, is
part of that work.”  Joann Donnellan, a spokeswoman for Bipartisan Policy
Center, didn’t respond to requests for additional comments.  European Agreement  The Safer Factories Initiative comes after companies
including  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) ,  Europe ’s two
largest clothing retailers, signed a legally binding accord and
pledged at least $60 million over five years to monitor safety
in Bangladesh factories. Wal-Mart hasn’t signed the European
agreement, and the plan of working on a separate initiative has
resulted in criticism from some labor-rights activists.  “This scheme was cooked up primarily by Wal-Mart and Gap,
two corporations with a track record of putting workers’ lives
at risk in the pursuit of cheap apparel,” Scott Nova, executive
director of the Worker Rights Consortium, a Washington-based
labor-rights monitoring group, said yesterday in a statement.  Safer Factories Initiative members aren’t working with the
unions and advocacy groups involved in the accord that H&M and
other European retailers have signed, Herman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  