-- Wells Fargo CEO Says Interest-Rate Risk Outweighs Bad Credit
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-05-30T16:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/wells-fargo-ceo-sees-interest-rate-risk-as-biggest-for-banking.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Stumpf  said managing low  interest rates  may be the
most pressing challenge for bankers and that his company had
prematurely kept funds idle to gird for increases.  “One of the biggest risks today in our industry is not
credit risk, its interest-rate risk,” Stumpf said today at an
investor conference in  New York  sponsored by the Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. research firm.  Investors have pressed bankers on how their firms can
increase lending profit margins in a low-rate environment and
drive up  stock prices . Some banks have been wary of taking on
business with rates hovering near record lows on concern loans
will become less valuable when more-normal conditions return.
Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , is the largest U.S. home
lender and ranks fourth by assets.  “We’ve probably been wrong the last couple years, we’ve
had a lot of this stuff on the sidelines saying rates will turn
around sometime,” Stumpf said. “Well, sometime hasn’t come
yet.”  That may finally be changing, Stumpf said, citing a recent
rise in rates on concern that the  Federal Reserve  will slow debt
purchases as the economy gains speed. Corporate notes
denominated in dollars declined 0.7 percent on May 28, erasing
gains for the year as 10-year U.S. Treasuries posted the biggest
one-day decline since October 2011, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  Wider Margins  Cutting credit losses and boosting the firm’s vast pool of
inexpensive deposits will assist Wells Fargo’s profit margins,
Stumpf said. He wants to increase loans from $800 billion to
about $1 trillion, closer to matching its deposits, he said.  Stumpf said he doesn’t consider Wells Fargo too big to fail
and that more restrictions aren’t needed. Lawmakers who argue
that the Dodd-Frank Act hasn’t safeguarded taxpayers against
future bailouts have proposed higher  capital requirements  for
the biggest banks.  “I understand why policymakers and regulators and
legislators don’t want to be put in the situation they were in
2008,” Stumpf said, adding that new regulations and current
capital rules should be given “a chance to work.”  While his firm won’t buy other deposit-taking banks,
mergers among smaller lenders may increase, Stumpf said.  “I would’ve thought you would’ve seen more activity by
now,” the CEO said. “It would not surprise me if you saw that
pick up a bit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  