-- What’s Inside the Government’s Deal With Citigroup?
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-05-30T22:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/what-s-inside-the-goverment-s-deal-with-citigroup-.html
The conservator for  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
 Freddie Mac  was eager for  publicity  in September 2011 when it
sued 17 financial institutions, accusing them of ripping off the
two government-backed housing financiers. It isn’t so
enthusiastic anymore.  This week the U.S. Federal Housing Finance Agency  told  a
federal judge it had settled its case against  Citigroup Inc. (C)  The
agency won’t say how much money Citigroup is paying. Neither
will Citigroup, which survived the financial crisis only because
it got multiple taxpayer bailouts. The parties agreed to keep
the terms confidential. The government has decided this is none
of the public’s business.  The agency had  accused  Citigroup of violating securities
laws and making misrepresentations about $3.5 billion of
mortgage bonds that it sold to Fannie and Freddie during the
housing bubble, before they were seized by the government. This
is the second such lawsuit to be resolved so far. In January,
the agency  dropped  its  suit  against  General Electric Co. (GE)  after
reaching a deal over mortgage bonds sold to  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  In that
case, too, the terms weren’t disclosed.  This should make every American’s blood boil. The
government is devoting taxpayer resources to pursue these claims
in court. The public is entitled to know the results. It’s that
simple.  Keeping Secrets  When I asked Corinne Russell, a spokeswoman for the
housing-finance agency, why it is keeping the terms secret, she
said the “public interest supports avoiding possible impacts on
ongoing litigation and future settlements.”  Will the agency ever disclose them? That is “to be
determined,” Russell said. Nice lack of commitment.  Here’s one way to interpret her statement: Other defendants
that haven’t settled might not be willing to pay as much if they
knew the deals that Citigroup and GE got. Perhaps the litigation
against them was going nowhere, and the companies paid only a
pittance to make the lawsuits go away. In that case, it would
make sense that the housing-finance agency wouldn’t want the
other defendants to know the details. It still wouldn’t justify
keeping the public in the dark.  I don’t know if this is what happened, of course. Maybe the
deals were hard on GE and Citigroup. Don’t blame me for
spreading rumors here, though. That’s the nature of secrecy: It
encourages the public to speculate. How well did the government
and its lawyers do their jobs? There’s no way to know, because
they are denying us the information we need to draw informed
conclusions.  This conveniently makes it difficult for the public to hold
anyone at the FHFA accountable. If the settlements were large, I
suspect the agency would be bragging about them as an inducement
to get other defendants to pay more.  Maybe we will get lucky, and a congressional committee will
start asking questions and calling folks to testify. (A good
start would be with Edward DeMarco, the agency’s acting
director, and Mel Watt, the Democratic U.S. Representative from
 North Carolina  who is President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to lead
the agency.) Otherwise, we may never know what happened, or if
the government’s claims on behalf of Fannie and Freddie had any
merit -- especially if the defendants all settle out of court.  These weren’t puny claims, either. When the FHFA  filed  the
17 lawsuits, it said the bond issuers had misled Fannie and
Freddie about the soundness of the loans underlying $196 billion
of mortgage-backed securities. Other defendants include JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of
America Corp., and Ally Financial Inc. -- the last of which is
still majority-owned by the government.  Revealing All  Not all government agencies behave this way. The most
comparable example may be the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Its  policy  is that all settlements are public whenever the FDIC
files claims as a conservator or receiver for a failed bank.
Those include mortgage-fraud settlements, as well as accords
with bank officers, directors, appraisers, attorneys and
auditors.  “Any cases that involved an action as receiver or
conservator and sought damages or restitution would be
available” to the public, said  Andrew Gray , an FDIC spokesman.
The FDIC even has a  page  on its website devoted to posting
settlement agreements, which it launched this year after drawing
 criticism  for sometimes reaching settlements  without publicizing 
them.  If the FDIC can do it, the overseer of Fannie and Freddie
should, too. There is no good excuse for this secrecy.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  