-- Widam Plans $124 Million Poultry Project in Qatar to Diversify
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-05-30T13:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/widam-plans-124-million-poultry-project-in-qatar-to-diversify.html
Qatar Meat & Livestock Co., the  best-performing stock  on the QE Index last year, will seek funding
for a 450 million-riyal ($124 million) project to raise poultry
as the company ventures into new foods.  The company, known as Widam Food, is awaiting a government
license to build a plant that will produce 22 million chickens a
year for sale on the domestic market, Managing Director Ahmad
Nasser Sariya Al-Kaabi said in an interview from his office in
the capital Doha. The license is delayed because the amount of
land and water required needs more study, he said.  If the license is granted, the company will consider
funding methods including a capital increase, sharia-compliant
bank loans or the issuance of Islamic bonds, he said.  Two years after the government said it would nationalize
the company to improve its performance and then backed off on
those plans,  Widam’s profit  has more than doubled, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income rose to 20.7 million
riyals in the first quarter from 9.3 million riyals two years
earlier. The stock rose 85 percent last year, the biggest gain
on the QE Index, which dropped 4.8 percent.  The government’s retreat “was a big push for us to improve
in the years to come,” Al-Kaabi said.  Widam, which imports live lambs for slaughter and sale on
the domestic market, also plans to expand into fish farming and
will build a new 45 million-riyal plant for making processed
meats including hamburger and sausage, Al-Kaabi said.  Australian Lamb  Australian lamb accounts for 80 percent of Widam’s meat
imports, he said. The company imported about 1 million
Australian sheep last year, and the meat is sold through the
company’s retail outlets at prices that are subsidized by the
government, he said.  Hassad Food Co., the agricultural investment arm of the
emirate’s sovereign wealth fund, holds a 6 percent stake in
Widam, Al-Kaabi said.  Hassad, which works to increase Qatar’s food security,
purchased 40,000 hectares (154 square miles) of property in
Austrialia’s Victoria state as well as 31,500 hectares of
farmland in three locations of  Western Australia  last year to
raise sheep and grow wheat and barley, Tom McKeon, chief
executive officer of Hassad  Australia , said last year.  “The role of Widam Food is to import from Hassad and
distribute it in the country,” Al-Kaabi said.  Widam shares  rose 2.6 percent to 63.2 riyals on the Qatar
Exchange today, the biggest increase since March 27. The shares
have gained 7.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  