-- WTI Crude Trades Near Four-Week Low as Supplies Increase
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-05-30T12:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/wti-crude-drops-a-second-day-before-opec-meets-as-supplies-gain.html
West Texas Intermediate crude slid
near a four-week low, headed for a second month of declines, as
investors bet signs of continued U.S. economic growth will
strengthen the case for reduced stimulus.  Futures dropped as much as 0.9 percent in  New York  after
falling 2 percent yesterday. U.S. Commerce Department data
showed the biggest oil-consuming country maintained growth in
the first quarter, feeding speculation that the  Federal Reserve 
will taper its debt-buying program as the recovery continues. A
report today may indicate oil supplies shrank, a Bloomberg News
survey showed. OPEC ministers meet tomorrow to decide the
group’s output policy.  “With the U.S. also looking like pulling back liquidity
from the market, people are worried about future growth in the
world’s two largest economies,” said Thina Saltvedt, an Oslo-based analyst at Nordea Bank AB, who believes the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries will maintain its current
production target.  WTI for July delivery was at $92.59 a barrel in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 54 cents, at
1:47 p.m. London time. The contract fell $1.88 to $93.13
yesterday, the lowest close since May 1. Futures have lost 0.9
percent this month after a 3.9 percent drop in April.  OPEC Supply  Brent for July settlement was down 64 cents at $101.79 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $9.19 to WTI
futures. The spread was $9.30 yesterday, the widest based on
closing prices since May 15.  Revised data from the Commerce Department showed the  U.S.
economy  grew at a 2.4 percent annualized rate in the first three
months of this year, 2 percentage points faster than the
previous quarter.  Other U.S. data may show an index of pending house sales
increased 1.5 percent in April, matching a gain the previous
month, economists forecast before a report today at 10 a.m.
Washington time from the National Association of Realtors.  OPEC, which supplies about 40 percent of oil globally, is
expected to keep its output target at 30 million barrels a day
when ministers meet tomorrow in Vienna, two delegates said on
May 28, asking not to be identified because the decision isn’t
yet final. All but one of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted the 12-member group will maintain its official limit.  Fuel Stockpiles  Kuwait’s OPEC Governor Siham Razzouqi said today she sees no
reason to change the production target.  Saudi Arabia ’s Oil
Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said yesterday the market is balanced and
stable and that current prices are suitable for producers and
consumers, according to the state-run Saudi Press Agency.  Oil may stay around $100 a barrel in the short term, Karim Djoudi, the Algerian finance minister, said in an interview at
the African Development Bank annual meeting in Marrakech,
 Morocco . Algeria is boosting production capacity and will have
spare output to respond to any increase in demand, he said
yesterday.  U.S. crude inventories probably slid 500,000 barrels last
week, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey before the Energy Information Administration
releases data today. The report is being released a day late
because of the Memorial Day holiday on May 27.  ‘Downside’ Bias  The  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday that crude
inventories rose by 4.4 million barrels in the seven days to May
24 for a fifth weekly gain. Gasoline supplies rose 1.9 million
barrels, the API said. The figures from the EIA, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm, are forecast to show a drop of
 500,000 barrels . Distillate stockpiles, including heating oil
and diesel, climbed 3.1 million barrels in the API report. They
are projected to decrease by 450,000 barrels in the survey.  The IMF said yesterday that  China’s economy  will expand
7.75 percent this year and next, down from an April forecast of
8 percent for 2013 and 8.2 percent in 2014.  “It’s clear at the moment we have a bias to the downside,
with concerns about global growth and increasing inventory
numbers equaling lower prices,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief
market strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney, who predicts that
OPEC will cut its production limit.  WTI has technical support along its middle Bollinger Band
on the weekly chart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This indicator, at about $92.31 a barrel today, is near where
futures halted declines the past two weeks. Buy orders tend to
be clustered around chart-support levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  