-- Oil Rises From Four-Week Low on Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-05-30T19:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-30/wti-oil-falls-to-four-week-low-after-u-s-gdp-revision.html
West Texas Intermediate crude climbed
from a four-week low and the dollar tumbled against the euro as
worse-than-expected economic data spurred speculation that the
Federal Reserve would maintain stimulus measures.  Futures advanced 0.5 percent and the U.S. currency dropped
to a three-week low against the euro after the Commerce
Department said U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2.4
percent annualized rate in the first quarter, less than the 2.5
percent initially reported. A government report showed that
crude supplies climbed to 397.6 million barrels last week, the
highest level since 1931.  “Oil along with other markets is off to the races,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “The gain must be due to speculation that
stimulus will continue. The fundamentals of the oil market are
bearish, not bullish.”  WTI crude for July delivery increased 48 cents to settle at
$93.61 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil touched
$91.65 at 9:10 a.m., the lowest intraday level since May 2. The
volume of all futures traded was 4.9 percent above the 100-day
average for the time of day at 3:45 p.m.  Brent oil for July settlement dropped 24 cents to end the
session at $102.19 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Volume for all contracts was 16 percent lower
than the 100-day average. The European benchmark grade traded at
an $8.58 premium to WTI. The spread was $8.89 yesterday, the
widest based on closing prices since May 15.  Equity Rally  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.6 percent, and the
Dow Jones Industrial Average increased 0.4 percent. Gold climbed
1.5 percent to a two-week high.  Other reports showed fewer Americans than forecast signed
contracts to buy previously owned homes and jobless claims
increased. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week the
central bank could reduce the pace of bond purchases if there is
a sustained improvement in growth.  The dollar fell as much as 0.9 percent against the euro. A
weaker U.S. currency and stronger euro bolster the appeal of raw
materials denominated in the dollar as an investment.  “The falling dollar is the only explanation that makes
sense for the rebound in oil prices,” said Michael Lynch,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “The inventory report showed a big build in
supply and I would have expected that prices would have dropped
on that.”  Surging Output  U.S. crude stockpiles rose 3 million barrels in the week
ended May 24, according to the Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical unit. A
500,000-barrel decline was projected, according to the median of
11 analyst responses in a Bloomberg  survey .  Crude production rose 34,000 barrels a day to 7.29 million
last week, the EIA said. Output reached 7.37 million barrels a
day in the week ended May 3, the most since February 1992.
Production has surged as the combination of horizontal drilling
and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has unlocked supplies
trapped in shale formations in the central U.S.  “The crude build to near-record levels is old news,” said
John Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based
hedge fund that focuses on energy. “Inventories have been at
extremely high levels for quite a while now, so it doesn’t take
much to reach new superlatives.”  Refinery Utilization  Refineries operated  at 86.4 percent of capacity in the
seven days ended May 24, down 0.9 percentage point from the
prior week. Units are often reopened in the spring after being
idled for maintenance in late winter as attention moves away
from heating oil and before the peak season for U.S. gasoline
consumption, which runs from late May until early September.  “The drop in refinery utilization rates helps explain the
unexpected increase in crude-oil supplies last week,” said
Julius Walker, global energy markets strategist at UBS
Securities LLC in New York.  Gasoline  inventories  declined 1.51 million barrels to 219.2
million, the report showed. Supplies were forecast to decrease
500,000 barrels, according to the survey.  Deliveries of gasoline  climbed  1.9 percent to 8.96 million
barrels a day, the highest level since August. The peak-demand
summer driving season when Americans usually take vacations
began with the May 27 Memorial Day holiday and ends in early
September with Labor Day.  ‘Big Story’  “The gasoline decline is the big story in this report,”
Kilduff said. “It looks like a lot was shipped to wholesalers
and retailers ahead of the holiday.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
supplies about 40 percent of oil globally, is expected to keep
its output target at 30 million barrels a day when ministers
meet tomorrow in Vienna, two delegates said on May 28, asking
not to be identified because the decision isn’t yet final. All
but one of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg survey predicted the 12-member group will maintain its official limit.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
July was 22.1 percent, compared with 23 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 542,171
contracts as of 3:45 p.m. It totaled 583,810 contracts
yesterday, 0.4 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.74 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  