-- ‘Giant Slayer’ Is Top Weekend Film With $28 Million in Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-03-03T16:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/-giant-slayer-is-top-weekend-film-with-28-million-in-sales.html
“Jack the Giant Slayer,” a 3-D re-
imagining of the folktale, opened in first place at theaters in
the U.S. and  Canada  at the weekend, taking in $28 million for
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s New Line Cinema.  “Identity Thief” fell to second place from first with
$9.7 million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in
an e-mailed statement. Among other new films, the raunchy comedy
“21 & Over” was third in its debut with sales of $9 million
for Relativity Media.  “Jack the Giant Slayer” follows a Hollywood trend in
producing updated versions of classic stories designed to appeal
to teens as well as children. Studios released two Snow White
films last year and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s 3-D “Oz the Great and
Powerful,” a prequel to the 1939 classic, opens next weekend.  In “Giant Slayer,” the fairy tale is expanded beyond the
simple story of Jack’s one-time trip up the beanstalk. In the
film, directed by Bryan Singer, Jack’s intrusion rekindles an
ancient war between humans and a race of bloodthirsty giants.
Nicholas Hoult, who played the character Beast in “X-Men: First
Class,” portrays Jack. The film also features Eleanor Tomlinson
as the princess Jack encounters during his adventure and  Ewan McGregor  as Elmont, a warrior who helps Jack take on the Giants.  “Jack the Giant Slayer” was estimated to take in $26.1
million, the forecast of  Box Office Mojo , another researcher.  “Identity Thief” stars  Jason Bateman  as Sandy Bigelow
Patterson, a man whose gender-neutral name enables a woman to
assume his identity and wreck his credit. Authorities tell him
the only way to resolve the problem is to find the woman and
bring her in. The film from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures
co-stars Melissa McCarthy as Bateman’s nemesis. Amanda Peet
plays Sandy’s wife.  “21 & Over” stars “Twilight” series-cast member Justin
Chon as a quiet, hard-working college student who goes on a
binge of drink and debauchery the night before a crucial
interview to get into medical school. The R-rated film, which
also features Miles Teller and Skylar Astin, was estimated to
generate $14.7 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  