-- ‘Giant Slayer’ Is Top Weekend Film on Sales of $28 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-03T19:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/-giant-slayer-is-top-weekend-film-on-sales-of-28-million-1-.html
“Jack the Giant Slayer,” a 3-D re-
imagining of the folktale, opened in first place at theaters in
the U.S. and  Canada  at the weekend, taking in $28 million for
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s New Line Cinema.  “Identity Thief” fell to second place from first with
$9.7 million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in
an e-mailed statement. Among other new films, the raunchy comedy
“21 & Over” was third in its debut with sales of $9 million
for Relativity Media.  “Jack the Giant Slayer” follows a Hollywood trend in
producing updated versions of classic stories designed to appeal
to teens as well as children. Studios released two Snow White
films last year and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s 3-D “Oz the Great and
Powerful,” a prequel to the 1939 classic, opens next weekend.  “Jack” had been expected to gross about $30 million in
its first weekend, according to Boxoffice.com, the firm’s vice
president and chief analyst, Phil Contrino, said in an interview
today. “That’s a movie that can end up playing really well
overseas and make up for that opening that wasn’t expected,”
Contrino said. Box Office Mojo, another researcher, earlier
estimated the film would take in $26.1 million.  In “Jack,” the fairy tale is expanded beyond the simple
story of Jack’s one-time trip up the beanstalk. In the film,
directed by Bryan Singer, Jack’s intrusion rekindles an ancient
war between humans and a race of bloodthirsty giants. Nicholas
Hoult, who played the character Beast in “X-Men: First Class,”
portrays Jack. The film also features Eleanor Tomlinson as the
princess Jack encounters during his adventure and  Ewan McGregor 
as Elmont, a warrior who helps Jack take on the giants.  Identity Theft  “Identity Thief” stars  Jason Bateman  as Sandy Bigelow
Patterson, a man whose gender-neutral name enables a woman to
assume his identity and wreck his credit. Authorities tell him
the only way to resolve the problem is to find the woman and
bring her in. The film from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures
co-stars Melissa McCarthy as Bateman’s nemesis. Amanda Peet
plays Sandy’s wife.  “21 & Over” stars “Twilight” series-cast member Justin
Chon as a quiet, hard-working college student who goes on a
binge of drink and debauchery the night before a crucial
interview to get into medical school. The R-rated film, which
also features Miles Teller and Skylar Astin, was estimated to
generate $14.7 million.  Below Expectations  “The Last Exorcism Part II” opened in fourth place,
taking in $8 million for  CBS Films. (CBS)  Ashley Bell returns as Nell
Sweetzer, the central figure of 2010’s “The Last Exorcism.”
That film, distributed by  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ,
generated $67.7 million in worldwide ticket sales on a
production budget of $1.8 million. The new film cost about $5
million, and was forecast to have sales of $12.5 million,
according to Box Office Mojo.  “Snitch,” starring  Dwayne Johnson , also known as The Rock,
fell to fifth place from last week’s second slot for Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. with sales of $7.7 million. The film,
inspired by true events, features Johnson as a divorced father
who agrees to infiltrate a drug cartel to keep his son, wrongly
accused of dealing, out of prison, and also features Susan Sarandon and Barry Pepper.  “Escape From Planet Earth,” a 3-D animated feature from
Weinstein Co., fell to sixth from third with sales of $6.7
million. In “Escape,” a heroic astronaut from the planet Baab
ignores the misgivings of his brother and colleagues to respond
to an SOS that turns out to be a trap. The movie features the
voices of Brendan Fraser, Sofia Vergara and  Ricky Gervais .  Revenue Slides  Revenue for the top 12 films fell 38 percent to $94.4
million from the year-earlier weekend, Hollywood.com said. Sales
for the first nine weeks of the year are down 7.8 percent to
$1.6 billion. Attendance is down 8.9 percent.  This year “has a lot to live up to because 2012 was a
record year in terms of the North American box office,” said
Boxoffice.com’s Contrino. “There were some really strong movies
that opened at the end of 2011 and spilled over into 2012; I
don’t think the first quarter of 2013 had the same boost as the
previous year did.”  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
March 1-2 and estimates for today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  