-- Billionaire Seeks Sukuk for Istanbul Finance Hub: Turkey Credit
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-03-04T08:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/agaoglu-seeks-2-billion-islamic-debt-for-istanbul-finance-hub.html
Agaoglu Group, a Turkish company
with interests in the building industry, energy and tourism,
plans to raise $2 billion in Islamic debt to finance the
construction of Istanbul’s financial district.  The company hired investment bank Aktif Bank to manage the
sale in April, Agaoglu Chairman Ali Agaoglu said in an interview
yesterday in Dubai, where he opened an office to lure Persian
Gulf wealth to Turkey’s construction industry. The fundraising
would also include Murabaha facilities, he said.  The sale seeks to tap demand for Shariah-compliant debt in
the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, where borrowers raised
a record $21 billion last year as yields dropped, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Turkish government raised $1.5
billion from its debut Sukuk sale last year, setting a benchmark
for corporate issuers to follow.  “In order for us to issue those financial instruments we
need again to turn our eyes to the Gulf market because this is
where we will market those instruments,” Agaoglu said through
an interpreter.  The yield on the 2.803 percent government notes due 2018
fell 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, last week to
2.91 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with a five basis-point drop on GCC notes to 2.94 percent,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index.  Regional Status  The Istanbul International Financial Center is part of
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s plan to boost Turkey’s
regional status and make the economy one of the world’s 10
biggest by 2023. Construction has already begun on the Asian
coast of Istanbul, a city of 13 million, in the Atasehir
district. Agaoglu said in November it made the highest bid to
build the center.  The company plans to build infrastructure, excavation,
roads, parks, a metro station and landscaping, according to a
statement on Nov. 2. Construction also includes a 2,500-person
conference center, shopping mall and a hotel.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  of Japan,
 OAO Sberbank (SBER)  of Russia and Kuwait’s Burgan Bank SAK bought
Turkish firms or opened offices in the city last year, joining
such powerhouses as Citigroup Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc.  ‘Old Friends’  Agaoglu, with a $2.1 billion fortune according to Forbes
magazine, said his company aims to capitalize on Erdogan’s
policies that seek warmer ties with the Arab world as the
country’s aspirations to join the European Union fade. Through
the Dubai office, Agaoglu aims to attract investors to Turkey
after the government eased restrictions on foreigners buying
property.  “Thanks to the policies of the new government, we have
turned our eyes to our old allies, our old friends with whom we
have historical and religious relations, instead of turning our
face to the West,” he said.  Turkey’s economy, the biggest in eastern Europe and the
Middle East after Russia, may expand 4 percent this year after
growing 2.7 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate of
28 economists on Bloomberg. The country is rated BBB- at Fitch
Ratings, the lowest investment grade.  Yields on Turkey’s two-year benchmark  lira debt  have
dropped 43 basis points this year to 5.75 percent, extending
their 12-month decline to 350 basis points, the biggest in
 emerging markets .  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point to 206 at 10:55
a.m. in Istanbul, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global Diversified Index. Turkey’s spread is 79 basis points
below the average for emerging markets, and 229 basis points
below the average for countries in the Middle East, according to
JPMorgan’s indexes.  ‘Same Religion’  Gulf nationals from countries including Kuwait, Saudi
Arabia and Yemen bought more than 1,000 residential units in
Turkey since May, Agaoglu said. “The prices are quite
affordable,” he said.  The Dubai office will also seek partnerships with funds in
the region for development projects in Istanbul, including a
tunnel under the Bosphorus. Rail projects in the city, excluding
the $4.1 billion tunnel, will cost about $5 billion through
2016, Dursun Balcioglu, head of municipal rail systems, said in
November.  “The Arabs in the Gulf countries have high interest in
Turkey,” Agaoglu said. “We share the same culture, same
cuisine, same entertainment culture. Most importantly we share
the same religion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  