-- Hague Pledges Aid for Syria Rebels, Attacks ‘Delusional’ Assad
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-03-03T11:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/hague-pledges-aid-for-syria-rebels-attacks-delusional-assad.html
U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague
said he will this week announce further direct assistance for
Syrian rebels and denounced President Bashar al-Assad as
“delusional.”  “We’ll be doing more and we have to steadily do more if
there’s no diplomatic or political breakthrough,” Hague told
BBC Television’s “Andrew Marr Show” today. “The situation in
 Syria  now is too dangerous to the peace and security of that
entire region to ignore it.”  Britain and the U.S. are among international backers of the
opposition in Syria who are pushing for an end to a conflict
that began almost two years ago and that the United Nations
estimates has left more than 70,000 people dead. The U.S. is
providing support to rebel fighters for the first time including
medical equipment and food as well as $60 million for the
National Coalition.  Hague said that while the package announced to parliament
this week includes non-lethal equipment to help save lives, he
didn’t rule out sending weapons. “I don’t rule out anything for
the future if this is going to go on for months or years, and
more tens of thousands of people are going to die,” he said.  Hague attacked Assad over a newspaper interview in which
the Syrian president criticized Britain. He said that while
Assad was presiding over the “slaughter” of his own people,
Britain was sending humanitarian aid.  “This will go down as one of the most delusional
interviews that any national leader has given in modern times,”
Hague said.  Speaking to the Sunday Times, Assad accused the British
government of being ‘naive, confused and unrealistic” in its
approach to the conflict in his country and warned of dire
consequences if the West armed its rebels.  “To be frank, Britain has played a famously unconstructive
role in our region on different issues for decades, some say for
centuries,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  