-- Thai Opposition Retains Bangkok Control After Yingluck Challenge
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-03-03T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/thai-opposition-retains-bangkok-control-after-yingluck-challenge.html
Thailand ’s opposition won its fourth
straight Bangkok governor election today, staving off a
challenge from a member of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s
party who led in polls before the vote.  Incumbent Governor Sukhumbhand Paribatra, a member of the
opposition Democrat Party, led by about seven percentage points
with 100 percent of votes counted, according to the  Bangkok
Metropolitan Administration . He topped Pongsapat Pongcharoen, a
member of Yingluck’s ruling Pheu Thai party, in one of the
closest governor races in two decades.  “I want to thank Prime Minister Yingluck for promising to
work with me seamlessly,” Sukhumbhand told supporters yesterday
in a speech broadcast on Channel 7. “I am also ready at all
times to work with the government seamlessly too.”  The victory provides a boost to opposition leader  Abhisit Vejjajiva  even as the narrow margin signaled gains for Yingluck
in Bangkok. The opposition had won the past three governor
contests dating back to 2004 by margins of more than 10
percentage points, and took more than 75 percent of the
capital’s seats in the past two nationwide elections.  Yingluck congratulated Sukhumbhand on his victory and
pledged to cooperate with him.  Thaksin Shinawatra , her brother
who was ousted in a 2006 coup, has seen parties linked to him
win the past five national elections.  “Even though our votes were not enough to become governor,
I and the party are still ready to serve Bangkok people,” she
told supporters in a briefing with Pongsapat. “I am ready to
work with the governor seamlessly.”  Budget Restraints  Abhisit, who campaigned for Sukhumbhand, became Democrat
party leader in 2005. He has presided over two straight defeats
in national elections and faces murder charges for his role in
dispersing protests in 2010 that killed more than 90 people and
led to arson attacks in Bangkok. He denies any wrongdoing.  Bangkok covers an  area  twice the size of  New York  City and
accounts for about a  third  of Thailand’s economy. Households in
the capital earned about 24,000 baht ($805) per month in 2007,
almost double the average in other parts of the country,
according to the most recent  data  on the National Statistical
Office of Thailand’s website.  The  Interior Ministry , which appoints governors in
Thailand’s 76 provinces, oversees the Bangkok Metropolitan
Administration. The governor controls a budget of about 60
billion baht, or about 40 percent of what Jakarta spends to run
 Indonesia ’s capital.  Sukhumbhand, 60, is a great-grandson of former King
Chulalongkorn. He has promised to bolster the city’s flood
defenses, build more parks, extend mass transit lines and
install more closed-circuit television cameras to fight crime.  The past five Bangkok governor elections have been decided
by margins exceeding 10 percentage points. Sukhumbhand received
1.26 million votes, while Pongsapat took 1.08 million. Voter
turnout was about 64 percent, according to the Bangkok
Metropolitan Administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  