-- Malaysia Regime Ouster Hinges on Borneo as Radio Aids Opposition
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-03-04T08:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/malaysia-regime-ouster-hinges-on-borneo-as-radio-aids-opposition.html
At 7 p.m. on the Malaysian side of
Borneo island, Luang Entiyang turns the dial on a transistor
radio in search of an anti-government talk show as about a dozen
villagers sit cross-legged on the floor waiting to listen.  Similar meetings occur daily across the jungles of Sarawak,
 Malaysia ’s biggest state and one that has underpinned the ruling
 Barisan Nasional  alliance’s 55-year hold on national power. The
two-hour broadcast by U.K.-based  Radio Free Sarawak , in which
villagers call in to tell stories of land-grabs by palm oil
companies, aided by local officials, has helped to pry loose
Entiyang and other lifelong BN backers since it began in 2010.  “It makes a great difference because we are listening and
learning,” Entiyang, 61, said Feb. 15 at his home in Melikin, a
hillside village about a two-hour drive from Kuching, Sarawak’s
capital. “If BN wins the election, the natives will have
nothing. They will take all the land. Once they betray us, we
say goodbye.”  Opposition inroads in Borneo rain forests that hold a
quarter of Malaysia’s parliamentary seats pose the biggest
threat to Prime Minister Najib Razak’s tenure as he prepares to
call an election in the coming weeks. The prospect of a loss has
unsettled investors, who have made the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index the worst-performing benchmark in  Asia  this year on
concern the country will undergo its first transfer of power
since gaining independence from Britain in 1957.  ‘Awakening’  “There’s been more of an awakening in these rural areas,
but how much that’s going to translate into votes is still a
little bit up in the air,”  Bridget Welsh , a political science
associate professor at  Singapore Management University , said by
phone. “We’re talking about easily 20 seats in Sabah and
Sarawak that are gray, that are competitive, that fundamentally
will make the difference in national power.”  In 2008, Najib’s ruling BN alliance won 54 of 56 seats up
for grabs in Sarawak and neighboring Sabah, cementing its 12th
straight election win after peninsular Malaysia mostly split the
other constituencies in the 222-member parliament. The
opposition, which lost in 2008 by a 58-seat margin, is targeting
at least 20 seats in the two states this year.  Both Najib and opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  have made
frequent visits to the two former British colonies that joined
Malaysia in 1963, an area that has some of the highest poverty
rates in the country and accounts for about half of its natural
gas reserves and palm oil production. More than 60 percent of
its 5.8 million people are Borneo natives, collectively known as
Dayaks, who have traditionally lived off the land.  Shortwave Radio  A move toward the opposition in the two states will be
“enough to alter the shift in balance of power nationwide,”
Anwar said in a Feb. 19 interview in  Kuala Lumpur . Najib
promised greater development in a visit to Sabah on Feb. 14,
telling voters “there’s no need to think about the other
parties,” according to state-run Bernama news agency.  Radio Free Sarawak’s broadcasts are making that more
difficult. Clare Rewcastle Brown, the sister-in-law of former
British Prime Minister  Gordon Brown , founded the station in 2010
to provide remote villages with an alternative to state-run
media. Funded by donors in  Europe  whom Brown declines to
identify, RFS uses shortwave transmissions through London-based
 WRN Broadcast , whose clients include MTV and Nickelodeon.  Local authorities tried to block the station during April
2011 state elections by pumping gospel music on the same
wavelength from a broadcaster in Ukraine, according to Brown,
who was born in  Sarawak . After she protested, Ukraine’s
government stopped the jamming. Najib’s coalition won 55 out of
71 seats in the local elections, seven fewer than in 2006.  Taib Targeted  “We suspect there will be more attempts to jam us in the
election,” Brown said by e-mail. “The anger and a new sense of
unity and defiance is shown nightly over our show -- native
people, and most significantly headmen, are calling to say
enough is enough and it is time for change.”  The broadcasts mainly target moves by Abdul Taib Mahmud,
Sarawak’s chief minister, who has ruled the state for 32 years,
to lease land for palm oil plantations and build about a dozen
hydropower dams by 2020, providing the capability to produce
about 15 times more  electricity  than the state uses. Taib, 76,
heads Najib’s coalition in Sarawak and oversees state portfolios
for finance, planning and resources management. He declined a
request to be interviewed.  Anwar’s opposition alliance sees Radio Free Sarawak as a
way to break BN’s grip on an area where thick forest, broken
roads and spotty mobile-phone reception make campaigning tough.
Since 2010, it has distributed 25,000 Chinese-made radios
costing about 35 ringgit ($11) apiece to villagers, according to
See Chee How, a local opposition leader.  Message Spreading  The rural electorates may help sway the national vote
because some have four times fewer people than seats in Chinese-
dominated urban areas that shifted support to the opposition in
the 2011 state elections. Anwar’s coalition is “very
optimistic” it could win at least 20 seats of the 56 available
in Sabah and Sarawak, See said.  “Now our message is spreading throughout Sarawak,” See
said in a Feb. 13 interview in Kuching. “Rural people can see
the relevance to protect their land, protect their rights, to
get a fair share of economic gains. They are ready for change.”  Najib’s alliance disputes that assessment. While BN may
lose about six urban constituencies, it expects to retain all
the rural Dayak seats, giving it 25 overall for Sarawak,
according to  Stephen Rundi , the coalition’s secretary-general in
the state. The ruling coalition took 30 of Sarawak’s 31 seats at
the last election.  ‘Naughty’  Opposition claims that Taib is using his position for
personal gain are unfounded, Rundi said. The government is
working to tackle land problems, he said, particularly in “gray
areas” where the boundaries between land belonging to the state
and the indigenous people is not clearly demarcated.  Taib in January called Radio Free Sarawak “naughty” and
asked authorities to halt its operations, Bernama reported.
Najib’s alliance has trained a network of loyalists in Sarawak’s
remote villages over the past year to counter the radio
broadcasts, Rundi said, without saying how.  “They are talking about issues that are sensitive, and
they play it repeatedly just to instigate people,” Rundi said
in a Feb. 14 interview at his Kuching office. “Our strategy is
to go to the ground as much as we can through the grassroots
leaders to tell the people the truth and tell them not to be
easily misled.”  Why Change?  Najib’s alliance has considered setting up a competing
radio station because state-run broadcasts use long-wave
transmissions and can’t reach certain remote areas, according to
Edward Kurik, executive secretary of  Parti Rakyat Sarawak , a
rural-based party that is part of BN. Even so, he said, rural
people would vote for Najib because they are afraid of losing
benefits such as fertilizer subsidies and free school lunches.  “We are not people who dare take the risk,” Kurik said.
“Why should we change if what we’ve got from the government is
guaranteed? We are not born rich -- we depend so much on the
government and cannot lose this political power.”  Sarawak’s poverty rate was 5.3 percent in 2009, compared
with 3.8 percent for the whole country, according to  government
data . The porous borders in Sabah, with a poverty rate of 19.7
percent, have also posed challenges for the government.  Anwar’s alliance blamed Najib today for an ineffective
response after an armed Muslim group from the  Philippines 
claiming sovereignty over Sabah invaded a coastal town last
month. At least 25 people have died, including eight Malaysian
police, during the three-week standoff.  ‘Weak Leadership’  “We are disappointed with the weak leadership shown by the
federal government whose responsibility is to keep Malaysia’s
security intact,” the alliance said in a statement.  In Sarawak, people involved with the radio station have
faced threats, said Nicholas Mujah, who helps villagers bring
lawsuits against palm oil companies that encroach on ancestral
lands and was arrested last year for copying broadcasts on CDs.  Peter John Jaban , a tattoo-covered Dayak who was one of
Radio Free Sarawak’s first deejays, said he was detained last
year under the Sedition Act. Villagers listening to the
broadcasts are also intimidated, he said.  “Authorities and police will threaten them, saying if you
listen to this you will be arrested, or your village would not
be given roads or electricity,” Jaban, who has been blocked
from leaving Sarawak, said in Kuching.  ‘Blatant Lies’  Rundi said the government “cannot just swallow” the
“blatant lies” on Radio Free Sarawak. However, he said, the
government opposed measures to intimidate people, including the
use of gangsters by palm-oil companies to scare villagers.  “The government is always against all force and
intimidation by anybody,” Rundi said by phone.  For indigenous people such as Entiyang, who worked for
decades in a state-run medical clinic, taking cash to vote for
BN became routine -- including the 50 ringgit distributed on
election eve in 2008. Najib’s alliance  won  his district that
year with more than 80 percent of the vote. Rundi denied that BN
buys votes, while acknowledging payments to party workers.  Two years later, Entiyang disposed of the BN flag that hung
above his house after palm oil companies began operating on what
he and other villagers see as native land, and pressured locals
to accept money in return for giving up their rights. He’s now
involved in a lawsuit against the companies, United Teamtrade
Sdn. and Memaju Jaya Sdn., one of about 300 similar land cases
around Sarawak.  Land Lawsuits  United Teamtrade has received a 60-year lease to develop
the land from the Sarawak government and disputes claims that
it’s encroaching on indigenous lands, John Su, a spokesman for
the company, said by phone. The payments to villagers are a
“goodwill gesture,” he said.  A man answering to the name Tan Thian Siang, who is the
managing director at Tetangga Akrab Sdn. Bhd., which shares the
same Kuching address as Memaju Jaya, hung up the phone when
asked for comment.  “We are anxious to hear on the radio how other villages
are dealing with these problems,” Entiyang said as he picked up
the radio. “Without this, we really were blind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  