-- Aldar, Sorouh to Complete Merger in June, Appoint Management
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-03-03T15:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/aldar-sorouh-to-complete-merger-in-june-appoint-new-management.html
Abu Dhabi ’s  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) 
and Sorouh Real Estate PJSC said their merger will become
effective in June, creating the  Middle East ’s third-largest
publicly traded developer.  The shareholders of the two companies today approved the
merger that has the support of the government of Abu Dhabi, the
wealthiest of the seven sheikhdoms making up the United Arab
Emirates federation.  “On the effective date of the merger, Sorouh shares would
be delisted from the Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange and Sorouh
would be dissolved as a legal entity,” the companies said in a
joint statement. “Aldar will then be named AldarSorouh
Properties PJSC.”  Abu Dhabi is trying to revive its real estate market after
values fell by more than 50 percent since the global credit
crisis in 2008. The government paid $9.8 billion to bail out
Aldar in 2011. It has also resumed stalled projects, bought
struggling developments and commissioned new ones.  Sorouh Managing Director Abubaker Seddiq Al Khoori will be
the chairman of the board of the merged company, according to
the statement, which didn’t indicate who the chief executive
officer will be. Mohamed Al Mubarak will be deputy chief
executive officer, Greg Fewer chief finance officer, Paul Warren
chief strategy officer and Gurjit Singh chief development
officer, the statement shows.  Aldar CEO Sami Asad will not be part of the management when
the merger is completed, a company spokesman said, asking not be
identified in line with company policy. Sorouh CFO Richard Amos
will stay on as an adviser until the first quarter of 2014, when
he plans to retire, a company spokesman said.  Bain & Co Inc. has been hired to work on the integration of
the two companies, Al Khoori told reporters in Abu Dhabi after
Sorouh’s shareholders meeting.  Th merged company will have over 47 billion dirhams ($12.8
billion) in combined assets and a joint market capitalization of
10.9 billion dirhams, based on the closing share prices of Jan.
17, according to the statement.  Qatar  Ezdan Holding Group (ERES)  and Dubai’s  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) 
are the largest property developers in the Middle East by market
capitalization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  