-- Angola to Revive Luanda Port’s Freight Trains This Month
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-03-04T08:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/angola-to-start-cargo-rail-line-from-luanda-port-this-month.html
The transport of cargo by rail in
Angola,  Africa ’s second largest oil producer, will begin this
month from the port of Luanda for the first time in two decades.  The target is to move 615,000 metric tons a year, Isaac
Mateus, Commercial Director at  Caminho de Ferro de Luanda E.P ,
said in an interview on Feb. 27. Cargo will move along the
refurbished line from the capital to the city of Malange, about
250 kilometers (155 miles) inland, and from the Boa Vista cargo
terminal ear the port to Viana, a town 26 kilometers to the east
with a special economic zone to encourage industry, he said.  “Now that we have a line inside the port, this will alert
people to use trains instead of trucks,” Mateus, 35, said at
the Bungo station on the outskirts of Luanda’s central district.
An exact date in March to open the new line from the port hasn’t
been set, he said.  Angola  has spent about $600 million over two years with the
help of loans and workers from  China  to rebuild the two main
rail lines out of the capital. Importers have relied on trucking
cargo from the port on roads congested by construction projects
as Angola rebuilds from a 27-year civil war that ended in 2002.
The railway has four functioning locomotives and 44 passenger
cars plus seven engines and 11 cabins under repair, Mateus said.  Contracts are being negotiated with  Sonangol Distribuidora ,
an arm of the state oil company, to ship butane cooking gas from
Luanda to Malange and diesel 120 kilometers east to Dondo, he
said. Multiparques Lda., an Angolan container company, is the
railway’s largest client while Chinatec Corp., a construction
company, sends gravel by rail to Kwanza North province, Mateus
said.  Passenger Trains  Since 2011, the railway has been shipping an average of 64
containers a day from Viana to Malange, the manager said. It’s
seeking public-private business arrangements with farmers in
Malange province to ship produce to Luanda. The company has 30
40-foot container cars, 30 tankers, 20 gondolas, 10 freight cars
and six grain hoppers, Mateus said.  Passenger service from Bungo station began Feb. 4, resuming
a service disrupted by the war about 20 years ago, replacing Boa
Vista station as the closest to the city’s center. Fifteen
trains a day can take as many as 11,000 people as far as Baia,
about 30 kilometers outside the city. Dondo and Malange
residents have services once a week.  “There have been a lot of positive changes in the
passenger service and the efficiency,” said Mateus. “The
previous administration was during the war and the new one is
for a whole new Angola: no more war.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  