-- Arabtec Drops to 2-Month Low on Dilution Concern: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-03-03T11:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/arabtec-drops-to-2-month-low-on-dilution-concern-dubai-mover.html
Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  slumped to a
two-month low on investor concern the United Arab Emirates
builder’s plan to raise capital via convertible bonds may dilute
the positions of shareholders.  Shares of the country’s biggest construction company by
market value fell 9.7 percent to 2.41 dirhams, the lowest level
since Jan. 2, at the close in Dubai. Arabtec was the biggest
decliner on Dubai’s benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , trimming its
gain to 0.4 percent. Some 2.5 million Arabtec shares were
traded, less than a quarter the three-month daily average.  Arabtec has tumbled 19 percent since the company said Feb.
27 it seeks to raise $1.74 billion to fund internal growth,
acquisitions and joint ventures. The plan includes $450 million
of convertible bonds, as well as a rights issue.  “Investors remain concerned over the dilutive impact of
any new convertible bond,” according to  Julian Bruce , Dubai-
based head of institutional trading at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.
“Greater detail of any issue, including conversion price, will
be required to afford any degree of comfort.”  Arabtec is reviewing financing options and “will decide
upon the right structure in due course,” newly appointed Chief
Executive Officer Hasan Ismaik said today. The shares dropped
9.8 percent last month after rallying 32 percent in January.  The fundraising comes as Abu Dhabi-based Aabar Investments
plays a bigger role in the company after last year  raising its
stake  to 21.6 percent. Arabtec has won large projects in Abu
Dhabi in the past year, including construction of a branch of
the Louvre museum and a terminal at  Abu Dhabi  airport.  Arabtec is committed to remaining publicly listed, Ismaik,
who replaced Riad Kamal, said today. Aabar, an Abu Dhabi
government controlled company, delisted from the emirate’s stock
exchange in 2010.  Four analysts advise holding Arabtec shares, while nine 
recommend selling , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  