-- Arsenal Says Club Not for Sale After Reports of Gulf Bid
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-04T17:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/arsenal-says-club-not-for-sale-amid-reports-of-gulf-group-bid.html
Arsenal said majority owner Stan Kroenke is committed to the 13-time English soccer champion for
the long term and wouldn’t consider a sale following newspaper
reports that a Gulf-based group may make an offer for the club.  The group is planning a record 1.5 billion-pound ($2.3
billion) bid for the London team, the Sunday Telegraph and the
Sun reported yesterday.  The unidentified group comprises investors from Qatar and
the United Arab Emirates and is poised to begin negotiations,
the Telegraph reported, citing a person it didn’t identify. It
would be the biggest takeover of a sports team, and double the
790 million pounds the U.S.-based Glazer family paid for
 Manchester United (MANU)  in 2005.  In a statement, an Arsenal spokesman said there has been no
contact from any consortium regarding a takeover and that
Kroenke is committed to Arsenal for the long term and has no
intention of selling.  Arsenal’s board and team manager Arsene Wenger have come
under pressure from supporters following the sale of last
season’s top scorer Robin van Persie to Manchester United and
poor performances this season. Van Persie refused to sign a new
contract, saying he didn’t agree with the board’s strategy.  Some fans have accused the club of not spending enough on
top talent to compete with rivals such as Premier League leader
United, Manchester City and Chelsea, teams all owned by
billionaires. Arsenal, which hasn’t won a trophy since 2005,
also has faced protests for charging the highest priced tickets
in the league without restoring success. The newspaper reports
said the Middle East investment group would cut ticket prices.  Derby Loss  Arsenal lost 2-1 at north London rival Tottenham yesterday
and now trails third-place Spurs by seven points. The Gunners
have 47 points in fifth place and a top-four finish is needed
for Champions League qualification. Arsenal has played in
Europe’s elite club competition for 15 straight years.  Kroenke, an American sports mogul who also owns the
National Football League’s St. Louis Rams and the Denver Nuggets
basketball franchise, took control of Arsenal in 2011 after
acquiring stakes owned by two former board members. Those
purchases valued the club at 731 million pounds, less than half
the amount the Gulf-based group would offer according to the
newspaper reports.  The group plans to make a cash offer that’s worth more than
twice what the club was valued at two years ago, according to
the reports. The offer would be for all of the 62,217 issued
shares and would include about 830 million pounds for Kroenke,
the Telegraph said.  Kroenke had been vying for control with metals billionaire
 Alisher Usmanov , who retains a 29.96 percent stake. Usmanov has
been critical of the way the club is run. The Russian in July
wrote an open letter criticizing the club for failing to keep
van Persie and for lack of investment.  “We have not been approached by any party, regarding the
possible sale of our stake in Arsenal,” Usmanov said today in
an e-mail. “Should there appear any such bidder, my answer will
be as it has always been: we have no intention to sell our
Arsenal shares. I am a big fan, and this is a strategic
investment for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  