-- Las Vegas Sands Probably Violated Foreign Corrupt Act
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2013-03-04T09:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/las-vegas-sands-probably-broke-foreign-practices-law.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , embroiled in
two U.S. investigations and a court battle with the former head
of its Chinese casino business, said for the first time it
probably violated the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Macau unit Sands China Ltd. fell in Hong Kong trading after
billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s Sands disclosed in its  annual
report  preliminary results of an internal probe. “There were
likely violations of the books and records and internal controls
provisions of the FCPA,” it said.  The findings signal repercussions for Sands from U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission and Department of Justice
investigations of possible violations of the act, which
prohibits improper business payments outside the U.S. Sands,
which gets almost 60 percent of its  revenue  from China, said it
expects no material financial impact from the panel’s findings.  Ron Reese, a spokesman for Sands, declined to comment
beyond the filing, made on March 1. The audit committee also
found that the probable violations won’t lead to any financial
restatements and don’t represent a weakness in current controls.  Sands China lost 1.2 percent, the most since Feb. 21, to
close at HK$36.35 in Hong Kong. That pared Sands China’s gain
 this year  to 7.1 percent. The benchmark Hang Seng Index fell 1.5
percent today.  Jacobs Lawsuit  “If you look at Adelson and Sands, they’ve historically
been in legal trouble for a number of things, and every time
there is a short-time share-price loss it tends to bounce back
up,” said Michael Ting, a Hong Kong-based gaming analyst with
CIMB Securities Ltd. “We don’t think there would be any long-
term negative issues on the share price.”  Sands said in an e-mailed statement dated yesterday that no
violations of the anti-bribery provisions of the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act have occurred.  Sands previously held that its dealings in Macau, a former
Portuguese colony and the only  Chinese (1928)  city where casinos are
legal, were above-board. In an August interview, the chief
executive officer of its Asian unit, Sands China Ltd., said
Sands doesn’t engage in “crimes or illegal activities.”  The company has said that a lawsuit filed by former Sands
China CEO Steven Jacobs probably triggered the government
probes.  Singapore and Macau’s casino regulators did not immediately
respond to phone calls and e-mails from Bloomberg News seeking
comment on the impact on Sands operations in their cities.  Jacobs sued Las Vegas Sands in 2010, alleging he was fired
because he wouldn’t give in to the “illegal demands” of
Adelson, who is chairman and CEO. Jacobs said Adelson directed
him to secretly investigate Macau government officials and use
“improper leverage” against them.  Sands’ Defense  Adelson, 79, has an estimated net worth of $24.9 billion,
making him the world’s 18th-wealthiest person, based on the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Following Jacobs’s allegations, the Justice Department and
SEC opened FCPA-related investigations. The law prohibits
companies with U.S. operations and their intermediaries from
making improper payments to foreign officials to win or retain
business.  Las Vegas Sands has denied Jacobs’s allegations and has
said it’s cooperating with the investigations. Lawyers for the
company have said in court filings that Jacobs was dismissed for
working on unauthorized deals and violating company policy.  A Nevada judge in September sanctioned Sands for not
disclosing that evidence it said couldn’t be taken out of Macau
was already in the U.S.  The company didn’t elaborate on the likely FCPA violations.
It said it has improved its practices with respect to books and
records and internal controls.  Adelson Background  The audit committee probe, while ongoing, is largely
completed, Sands said. It said it’s cooperating with the
investigations, and that it “is currently unable to determine
the probability of the outcome of this matter, the extent of
materiality, or the range of reasonably possible loss, if any.”  Casino revenue in Macau, the world’s largest gambling hub,
rose 14 percent to $38 billion last year.  Las Vegas Sands has advanced 11 percent this year. The
stock closed at $51.31, down by 0.35 percent, on March 1 in New
York before the announcement.  The company in November approved a special dividend to
shareholders ahead of an increase in federal taxes this year.
Adelson and his wife, Miriam, who regulatory filings show own
about 51 percent of the stock, stood to collect about $1.2
billion. The couple contributed at least $87 million in last
year’s failed effort to elect Republican  Mitt Romney  as U.S.
president, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  