-- Assad Says Syria Ready to Negotiate as U.K. Offers Aid to Rebels
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-03-03T13:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/assad-says-syria-ready-to-negotiate-as-u-k-offers-aid-to-rebels.html
Syria ’s President Bashar al-Assad
said he is ready to hold talks to end the conflict that began
almost two years ago as the U.K. offered aid to rebels against
his regime.  “We’re ready to negotiate with anyone, including militants
who surrender their arms,” Assad told the London-based Sunday
Times in an interview. “We’re not going to deal with terrorists
who are determined to carry weapons, to terrorize people, to
kill civilians, to attack public places or private enterprise
and to destroy the country.”  The uprising against Assad has left more than 70,000 people
dead, according to United Nations estimates. The U.S. is
providing support to rebel fighters for the first time including
medical equipment and food as well as $60 million for the
National Coalition.  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague today called Assad
“delusional” and said he will this week announce further
direct assistance for Syrian rebels.  “We’ll be doing more and we have to steadily do more if
there’s no diplomatic or political breakthrough,” Hague told
 BBC Television ’s “Andrew Marr Show.” “The situation in Syria
now is too dangerous to the peace and security of that entire
region to ignore it.”  Assad said any moves by the west to arm Syrian rebels would
have consequences. Opposition groups are preparing an
alternative government to Assad’s regime.  Fault Line  “Syria lies at the fault line geographically, politically,
socially and ideologically,” Assad told the Times. “So playing
with this fault line will have serious repercussions all over
the  Middle East . Any intervention will not make these things
better. It will only make them worse.  Europe  and the  United
States  and others are going to pay the price sooner or later
with the instability in this region. They do not foresee it.”  The uprising against Assad, from the Alawite sect that’s an
offshoot of Shiite Islam, has taken on a sectarian character,
with most of the rebel groups led by  Sunni Muslims .  Iran , the
region’s main Shiite power, supports Assad while Sunni-majority
countries such as  Saudi Arabia  and  Turkey  back the opposition.  Hague said that while the U.K. package announced to
parliament this week includes non-lethal equipment to help save
lives, he didn’t rule out sending weapons. “I don’t rule out
anything for the future if this is going to go on for months or
years, and more tens of thousands of people are going to die,”
he said.  Assad ’Delusional’  Hague said that while Assad was presiding over the
“slaughter” of his own people, Britain was sending
humanitarian aid. “This will go down as one of the most
delusional interviews that any national leader has given in
modern times,” Hague said.  In the Sunday Times, Assad accused the British government
of being ‘naive, confused and unrealistic” in its approach to
the conflict in his country and warned of dire consequences if
the West armed its rebels.  “To be frank, Britain has played a famously unconstructive
role in our region on different issues for decades, some say for
centuries,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  