-- Bearish Swaps Signal Divides SocGen, Deutsche Bank: China Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 2013-03-04T03:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/bearish-swaps-signal-divides-socgen-deutsche-bank-china-credit.html
China’s swap market turned cautious
on the economy last month for the first time since August and
global banks are divided on prospects for growth.  The extra cost of locking in  interest rates  for five years
rather than two shrank to 36 basis points, from 46 on Jan. 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year swap that
exchanges fixed payments for the floating seven-day repurchase
rate fell seven basis points to 3.69 percent, while the two-year
rose three basis points. Societe Generale SA and  Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said the so-called curve flattening will
persist, while Deutsche Bank AG and Standard Chartered Plc
forecast renewed steepening.  Confidence in the world’s second-biggest economy is being
tested as a March 1 report showed manufacturing growth slowed in
February, while an Italian election fanned concern Europe’s debt
crisis will escalate and the U.S. government is reining in
spending. China’s central bank auctioned repurchase agreements
on Feb. 19 for the first time since June, withdrawing cash from
the banking system to curb inflation. The gap between five- and
two-year swap rates narrowed last month in the U.S. and  Brazil .  “The latest manufacturing indicator was weaker and this
could be the first shift in sentiment against the consensus
calling for solid first-half growth,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a
rates strategist in  Hong Kong  at SocGen. “What’s happening in
 Europe  helped a bit to dent optimism, and see what the U.S.
sequestration will bring.”  Manufacturing Cools  Both two- and five-year rates dropped one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 3.33 percent and 3.68 percent
respectively as of 11:21 a.m. today in Shangahi.  Chong predicted the spread will narrow by another 30 basis
points by the end of April. Deutsche Bank forecast a 20 basis
point widening over three months, while Standard Chartered said
it expects a reversal of February’s tightening. HSBC Holdings
Plc recommends investors bet on steepening should the gap reach
25 basis points. A steepening curve typically indicates
expectations for stronger economic growth or quickening
inflation.  Chinese manufacturing growth eased in February, with the
official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index dropping to a five-month low
of 50.1. A separate index compiled by HSBC and  Markit Economics 
fell to a four-month low of 50.4, still above the 50 level that
represents the dividing line between growth and contraction.
Chinese leaders will outline plans for the economy at an annual
meeting of parliament that begins tomorrow.  PBOC Operations  The central bank’s money-market operations drained a net 5
billion  yuan  ($803 million) from the financial system last week,
official data show. Withdrawals the previous week amounted to a
record 910 billion yuan, more than double the previous high in
Bloomberg data going back to March 2008, as repo auctions
resumed after a weeklong Chinese New Year holiday.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , a measure of interbank
funding availability, fell 14 basis points today to 4.29 percent
in  Shanghai , after reaching this year’s high of 4.56 percent on
March 1, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It climbed on each of the
last nine working days, the longest run of increases since
September 2007.  The flattening yield curve reflects risks that a surge in
bank lending in January could fan inflation, complicating
efforts to stem a property-market bubble, SocGen’s Chong said.
The central bank said on Feb. 6 that  China  must be alert to
changes in price expectations and to imported inflation.  Inflation Risk  Consumer-price gains accelerated to 3 percent in February
from 2 percent the previous month, according to the median of 20
estimates in a Bloomberg survey before data due March 9. That
would be the biggest increase since May.  Chinese banks handed out 1.07 trillion yuan of  loans  in
January, compared with 738 billion yuan a year earlier, official
data show.  Aggregate financing , which includes non-bank lending,
climbed 914 billion yuan from December to a record 2.54 trillion
yuan.  The reintroduction of repo auctions on Feb. 19 didn’t
signal a tightening stance by the PBOC, according to strategists
at Deutsche Bank, HSBC and  Standard Chartered .  “The flattening trend in February may have been induced by
similar bias in the U.S. as well as market over-reaction to the
PBOC’s repo auction,” said Linan Liu, China rates strategist in
Hong Kong at Deutsche Bank. Liu, who initiated a curve-
steepening trade in December at about 15 basis points,
recommended adding to bets last week as the spread tightened to
31 basis points.  Demand from banks to protect against possible interest-rate
increases may also boost longer-dated swaps, contributing to a
widening of the gap between five- and two-year contracts, Becky
Liu, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Standard Chartered, said in
an interview on March 1.  Yuan, Bonds  The existing swap curve is fair relative to HSBC’s own PMI
readings, suggesting further prospects for flattening are
limited, according to Andre de Silva, the bank’s head of Asia
Pacific rates research in Hong Kong. He recommended re-entering
steepening bets using offshore non-deliverable swaps should the
gap narrow to 25 basis points from 31 last week.  The five-year government  bond yield  climbed four basis
points last month to 3.31 percent, while the yuan weakened 0.04
percent to 6.2213 per dollar, and was little changed at 6.2251
per dollar as of 11:18 a.m. in Shanghai, according to China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Credit-default swaps protecting Chinese sovereign bonds for
five years fell five basis points in February to 64 in  New York ,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Tightening Bias  Signs of policy tightening bias may be under-appreciated,
according to Ethan Mou, an interest-rate strategist in Hong Kong
at Bank of America. He forecast the gap between China’s five-and
two-year swap contracts will narrow a further 15 to 20 basis
points by June.  “The government is likely to roll out new measures to
control the property markets after rapid increases in prices
this year,” Mou said in an interview on March 1. “There is a
risk that the economic recovery may not be as strong as the
market expects, and the global environment and rates are also
pushing for curve flattening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  