-- Benin Coup Against President Foiled, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e
-- 2013-03-04T05:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/benin-coup-against-president-foiled-prosecutor-says.html
Benin  authorities foiled an attempt
to oust President Thomas Boni Yayi and install a military regime
in the West African nation, state prosecutor Justin S. Gbenameto
said.  Pamphile Zomahoun, an army commander, and Johannes Dagnon,
a Beninese businessman, were arrested for planning “to block
the head of state from returning to Cotonou” and to institute a
military regime, Gbenameto told reporters yesterday in Cotonou,
the capital. Joseph Djogbenou, a lawyer for Dagnon, said on
television that his client had no involvement with any coup
plot. No lawyer for Zomahoun could be identified.  “The investigation is ongoing,” Gbenameto said.  Yayi has ruled Benin, situated between Nigeria and Togo on
the Gulf of Guinea, since 2006 and won a second term in office
in 2011. The 60-year-old leader, who in January completed a one-
year term as chairman of the African Union, traveled to
Equatorial Guinea last month for a summit with South American
leaders, Gbenameto said.  Security Minister Benoit Degla vowed to jail everyone
involved in the alleged coup plot.  “Benin does not deserve this coup,” he said in a
statement on state television.  Last year, businessman Patrice Talon was also suspected of
an attempted coup and is now living in exile in  France . The
president’s niece, his personal physician and others were
arrested after being accused of scheming to replace the
president’s heart medication with poison.  Benin’s $7.3 billion economy relies on agriculture to
generate more than a third of total output and provides
employment for 70 percent of its workforce, according to the
African Development Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serge-David Zoueme in Cotonou at 
 zsergedavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  