-- Bersani Insists He’ll Form New Government Without Rivals
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-03-04T08:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/bersani-insists-he-ll-form-new-italian-government-without-rivals.html
Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani, whose coalition won the most votes in Italy’s
inconclusive elections, insisted he would form a government on
his own without seeking an alliance with his main rivals, ex-
premier Silvio Berlusconi and comic-turned-politician Beppe Grillo.  “We have 460 parliamentarians, double what the right got
and triple what Grillo won,” Bersani said in an interview last
night on state-owned RAI3 television’s “Che Tempo Che Fa”
program. “So we will have the first word.”  Bersani is trying to dispel concern about political
paralysis in Italy after the Feb. 24-25 vote produced a hung
parliament, with his forces controlling the Chamber of Deputies
while falling far short of a majority in the Senate. So far, the
Democratic Party leader has said he will go it alone, without
explaining how he could win a confidence vote in the Senate
needed to govern.  The possibility of reaching an alliance with Berlusconi,
whose coalition lost to Bersani’s group in the Chamber by less
than half a percentage point, was “unreal,” Bersani said. He
also said he hadn’t met with Grillo about a possible accord and
urged Grillo to move beyond his rhetoric that the old guard must
go.  “He heads a movement that has a third of the Chamber, he
needs to decide what he will do or we will all be sent packing,
including Grillo,” Bersani said.  Limited Program  In an acknowledgment of his lack of broad support, Bersani
said he would present a “limited and precise” government
program focusing on eight points, including an anti-corruption
law, measures against organized crime, a conflict of interest
law and steps to reduce the cost of politics. All those
initiatives would likely appeal to Grillo’s forces, who have
campaigned against corruption both inside and outside of Italy’s
political system.  The interview came hours after Bersani’s economic policy
spokesman Stefano Fassina said the country may have to hold new
elections “in a few months” if Bersani doesn’t get a majority
in parliament. Fassina also said that the election law, which
contributed to producing the split parliament, would have to be
overhauled first.  Yield Surge  Italian bond yields surged after the elections ended in a
four-way parliamentary split, raising doubt over the stability
of the next government. Investors were looking to the election
to produce a government capable of pulling Italy out of its
fourth recession since 2001 and reduce a $2.6 trillion debt.
Italy’s 10-year yield rose 6 basis points today to 4.852
percent, up 40 basis points from before the election.  Moody’s Investors Service said in a report Feb. 27 that the
gridlock may reignite the euro-area’s debt crisis as turmoil in
the bloc’s third-largest economy risks spilling over into weaker
sovereign nations like Portugal and Spain.  New elections may be held in June, July or after the
summer, Fassina said yesterday in an interview on Sky TG24
television. Italian voters “rejected” austerity measures
imposed by Prime Minister Mario Monti’s government and the euro
area isn’t on the right road to end the crisis, he said.  Italian President Giorgio Napolitano said March 2 that
parties should put the public interest and the country’s
international reputation first as Grillo reiterated his anti-
austerity 5 Star Movement won’t back any government.  Referendum on Euro  Grillo, who has called for a referendum on whether Italy
should leave the euro and pay back its debt, last week referred
to Bersani as the “walking dead” in his blog. The post dashed
hopes that 5 Star might lend enough support for Bersani to be
installed in the Senate.  “I repeat for one last time: 5 Star Movement won’t give a
confidence vote to any government,” Grillo wrote on his blog
March 2.  Nichi Vendola, head of the Ecology, Left and Freedom party
that ran in coalition with Bersani, said in an interview with
daily la Repubblica that there’s still room for an agreement
with Grillo.  “This is just the first phase,” Vendola told Repubblica,
referring to Grillo’s criticism. “We are still in a phase of
psychological settling after the electoral earthquake, something
that is difficult even for Grillo to manage.”  The new parliament is set to convene for the first time on
March 15 to choose leaders of both houses. Napolitano will then
begin consultations with the main parties to see if any are in a
position to form a government, meaning the political wrangling
between the main leaders will probably continue for at least two
more weeks.  Napolitano may move up the first session of Parliament to
March 12, which would allow the consultations on forming a
government to begin on March 18, Repubblica reported today,
without citing anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Donovan at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  