-- Biggest Fund Manager Jain Sees Value in Banks: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-03-04T10:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/biggest-fund-manager-jain-sees-value-in-banks-corporate-india.html
Prashant Jain , chief investment
officer at  India ’s biggest money manager, said he sees value in
some of the nation’s biggest lenders amid prospects of a
reduction in bad loans that have made them  Asia ’s worst-
performing banking stocks in the past year.  Jain, who manages $18.6 billion at HDFC Asset Management
Co., also runs  HDFC Top 200 (ITCT200) , India’s largest equity fund. Banks
account for about 29 percent of HDFC Top 200’s assets, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund owns state-run Canara
Bank, Bank of Baroda and  Bank of India (BOI) , the three worst
performers on the 88-company  MSCI AC Asia Banks Index (MXAS0BK)  in the
past 12 months.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram’s budget pledge to
add 140 billion rupees ($2.6 billion) to boost capital at banks
will help state-run lenders increase credit and revive Asia’s
third-largest economy forecast to expand at the slowest pace in
a decade in the year ending March 31. A drop in delinquent debt
from a five-year high will lure investors to the nation’s
lenders, according to Diwakar Gupta, chief financial officer at
 State Bank of India (SBIN) , the country’s biggest financial services
company.  “At some point non-performing assets have to moderate,”
Jain, 45, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV India. “Last
quarter was better than the previous quarter and there is
expectation this quarter will again be better than the last.”  HDFC Top 200 is India’s best performing large-cap fund in
the past decade. It has returned 28 percent annually  compared 
with the 21 percent gain at the S&P BSE Sensex index in the same
period.  ‘Punished Enough’  Canara Bank’s bad debt widened to 2.77 percent of total
loans at the end of December from 2.58 percent in the preceding
quarter, while Bank of Baroda’s delinquent debt widened to 2.41
percent from 1.98 percent.  Canara Bank (CBK) ’s shares fell 0.6 percent to 417.15 rupees in
 Mumbai , extending the past year’s decline to 18 percent.  Bank of
Baroda  rose 0.1 percent to 709.2 rupees. The  S&P BSE Bankex (BANKEX) 
index of 14 lenders gained 0.3 percent, the only gauge among the
14 industry measures compiled by the BSE Ltd. to increase today.
The index trades at 10.9 times its future earnings, down from
18.7 times in 2010.  “Indian banks have been punished enough for asset quality
issues,” said Vishal Narnolia, Mumbai-based analyst at SMC
Global Securities Ltd. “They are the cheapest among Asian banks
as far as price to book value is concerned. We expect that the
shares will rise from now onwards.”  Bank of Baroda (BOB) , India’s second-largest state-run bank by
market value, has a price-to-book value of 1, compared with 5.32
times at  PT Bank Central Asia (BBCA) ,  Indonesia ’s biggest lender by
market value. The measure for Canara Bank was at 0.8 times.  Soured Debt  Soured debt as a proportion of banks’ total credit jumped
to 3.6 percent in September, the highest in at least five years,
 Reserve Bank of India  said in a Dec. 28 report. Lending grew
16.4 percent in the twelve months through Feb. 8 after slowing
to 15.12 percent in December, the weakest pace in two years.  “We are expecting a turn around at banks by September,”
Saswata Guha, Mumbai-based director at Fitch Ratings said in an
interview. Bad loans at Indian banks will increase to 4.2
percent by March 31, he said.  Chidambaram in his budget presented in Parliament on Feb.
28 announced measures to accelerate infrastructure projects
which will help in recovering bad loans in road and power
sectors, said SMC’s Narnolia. Chidambaram allocated 330 billion
rupees ($6 billion) for the ruling coalition’s flagship rural
jobs program and 100 billion rupees for a plan to give the poor
cheap food grains, ahead of a general election due by 2014.  Chidambaram’s Pledge  The finance minister, who raised taxes on people earning
more than 10 million rupees a year and on  luxury vehicles ,  also
pledged to narrow the government’s budget shortfall to 4.8
percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months starting
April 1 from 5.2 percent.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings cut their credit
outlooks for India last year, citing the government’s failure to
reduce the budget and current-account deficits. Both companies
rank the country at BBB-, the lowest investment grade.  “The worst of fiscal appears to be clearly behind us,”
said HDFC Mutual’s Jain. “Since inflationary pressures are
waning, the RBI would now certainly do more because that’s the
need of the hour. You need lower  interest rates .”  The central bank cut its policy rate to 7.75 percent from 8
percent on Jan. 29, the first reduction since April. Six of 15
economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast the  Reserve Bank  of
India will cut the benchmark rate by three-fourths of a percent
by December.  Largest Holding  While falling borrowing costs will help lenders including
 State Bank of India , HDFC Top 200’s largest holding, boost
lending and reduce bad debt, higher capital will improve its
risk buffers. India’s banks will need to raise as much as 1.75
trillion rupees from equity sales to meet the Basel III capital
rules, according to estimates from the central bank.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , whose first two
versions of global financial standards failed to avert crises,
established a new set of rules in 2010 dubbed Basel III. At
least 7 percent of banks’ risk-weighted balance sheets must be
backed by common equity that can absorb losses, up from 2
percent before the 2008 crisis, the committee determined.  “The government’s commitment to capitalize public sector
banks is comforting,”  State Bank ’s Gupta said in an interview.
“These funds will help to fill the gap between retained
earnings and Basel III requirements.”  Asset Quality  Total bad loan ratio at  State Bank of India  widened to 5.3
percent as of Dec 31 from 5.15 percent in September. Pace of bad
loan increases is slowing and the lender is trying to recover
bad loans to improve asset quality, Chairman, Pratip Chaudhuri,
said on Feb. 14.  State Bank’s  shares , which have dropped 7 percent in the
past year, advanced 0.6 percent to 2,099.5 rupees and were among
the 10 biggest  gainers  on the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index,
which fell 0.2 percent.  The company’s return on assets, a measure of how well
shareholder money is reinvested, was 18.1 percent in the three
months ended Sept. 30, compared with 25.7 percent at Indonesia’s
Bank Central. The measure reached a record 32 percent at State
Bank at the end of March 2006.  “Ultimately, interest rates will move down, growth will
improve and price to earnings multiples also will start moving
up,” said Jain.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  