-- China Services Industries Grow at Slower Pace on Orders
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-03T02:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/china-services-industries-grow-at-slower-pace-on-orders.html
China ’s services industries expanded
at the slowest pace since September as a gauge of new orders
declined, adding to signs a recovery in the world’s second-
biggest economy is moderating.  The  non-manufacturing   Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to
54.5 in February from 56.2 in January, the Beijing-based National 
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and 
Purchasing said in a statement today. The index’s reading has 
been above 50, which indicates expansion, for at least two years.  Today’s report adds to concerns that China’s rebound from a
seven-quarter  slowdown  is losing steam after two manufacturing
indexes released last week showed declines. Communist Party
leaders, meeting before the annual session of the legislature
this week, warned of “severe challenges” facing the country
amid a “complex international situation and difficult domestic
tasks” including reform and maintaining stability, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported Feb. 28.  “February is a low season for construction activities
which led to moderating activity in non-manufacturing,” Cai Jin,
a vice chairman at the federation, said in a statement
accompanying the report. “But looking at data from the past two
months, the non-manufacturing economy continued relatively fast
growth this year and the good trend is expected to continue as
the peak season for construction and consumption approaches.”  Spending Crackdown  A gauge of new orders declined 1.9 points from January to
51.8, the weakest reading since October, according to today’s
statement. Consumption of food and drink cooled, the federation
said, prolonging a slump that emerged in January.  Communist Party chief  Xi Jinping ’s crackdown on extravagant
spending and lavish banquets by government departments and
state-owned enterprises has hurt sales at high-end restaurants
and demand for expensive liquor. Growth in food sales at outlets
monitored by the Ministry of Commerce fell to 9.8 percent over
the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday last month, down from a 16.2
percent pace over the festival period in 2012, data last month
showed.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.3 percent on March 1,
paring last week’s gain to 2 percent, after two manufacturing
indexes showed a slower-than-estimated pace of expansion. The
federation’s official PMI had a reading of 50.1, the weakest in
five months, while a separate gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics dropped to a four-month low of 50.4.  Holiday Distortions  HSBC will report its February services index on March 5.
The gauge rose to 54 in January from 51.7 the previous month.  Economic data in January and February are “significantly
distorted” by the weeklong Chinese Lunar New Year holiday, Lu Ting, chief  Greater China  economist at Bank of America Corp. in
 Hong Kong , said in note after the manufacturing data. The
festival was celebrated in February this year and January last
year. “We believe the Chinese economy is still on a cyclical
upturn,” Lu wrote.  Some services industries surveyed by the federation showed
a brighter outlook, offering policy makers comfort that the
slowdown may not be broad based.  New orders for civil engineering construction rose to a
record high, indicating the sector’s “sustained and
strengthening drive” behind the economy, according to the
 federation . A gauge of business expectations in the real-estate
industry rose to an almost two-year high.  Growth Goal  China’s economy  expanded 7.9 percent in the final three
months of 2012 from a year earlier, the first pickup in eight
quarters. Growth may accelerate to 8.2 percent in the three
months through March, according to the median estimate of 23
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Premier  Wen Jiabao  will this week formally announce this
year’s economic targets when he delivers his final work report
to the National People’s Congress. The goal will be maintained
at 7.5 percent, Bloomberg News reported in December, citing two
bank executives and a regulatory official briefed on the matter.
Expansion slid to 7.8 percent last year, the least since 1999.  “It’s still too early to say decisively how strong the
current recovery is, but our conjecture is that it is relatively
weak compared to past ones,” Zhang Zhiwei, chief China
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, said before the
data.  The  logistics federation ’s non-manufacturing index is based
on responses from purchasing managers at 1,200 companies in 27
industries including banking, retailing, construction and
transport. A new seasonally adjusted series began in March 2012
and the data were revised back to March 2011.  --Nerys Avery. With assistance from Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai ,
Jessica Zhou and  John Liu  in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, John
Liu  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  