-- China PBOC Adviser Says Monetary Tightening Pressure Eased
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-03T14:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/china-pboc-adviser-says-monetary-tightening-pressure-eased-2-.html
Pressure on  China  to tighten
 monetary policy  is easing as inflation will be “relatively
low” this month due to slowing food-price gains, People’s Bank
of China adviser Song Guoqing said.  Compared with January and February, the pressure has been
“relieved,” Song, one of three academics who sit on the
monetary policy committee, said at a forum in Beijing yesterday.
He indicated he was giving his own view. China’s central bank
has limited powers, with the State Council having the final say
on interest-rate moves.  The People’s Bank of China drained cash from the financial
system in each of the two weeks after a Lunar New Year holiday
ended Feb. 15, prompting speculation that it was tightening amid
concerns that inflation was accelerating and real-estate price
gains were excessive. The State Council stepped up efforts to
cool the  property market  on March 1, ahead of an annual meeting
of the legislature that will see  Li Keqiang  take over from  Wen Jiabao  as premier.  The measures “will lead to downside risks to property
prices and investment but the effectiveness of the policy
depends on whether the  money supply  will be tightened as well,”
Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
 Hong Kong , said in a March 1 note. Monetary policy will probably
tighten “in the next several months,” which will slow economic
growth, he said.  Inflationary Pressure  “Low inflation” is still the main objective for China’s
monetary policy, said Song, a Peking University professor who
studied economics at the  University of Chicago  and was appointed
a central bank adviser in March 2012.  Yi Gang, a deputy governor, said today the PBOC is “fully
confident” of controlling inflation this year.  While the nation faces “some” inflationary pressure, the
consumer-price index will rise about 3 percent in 2013, Yi told
reporters today at the start of the annual meeting of the
nation’s top advisory body. That compares with 2.6 percent last
year.  Housing Minister  Jiang Weixin  said he was confident the
government will be able to control  home prices , the Shanghai
Securities News reported on its website yesterday. Jiang, a
member of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative
Conference, spoke in Beijing on the eve of that advisory body’s
annual meeting. The legislature, the National People’s Congress,
will begin its session on March 5.  Recovery Peaked  China’s economy  expanded 7.9 percent in the final three
months of 2012 from a year earlier, the first pickup in two
years. The pace may accelerate to 8.2 percent in the three
months through March, according to the median estimate of 23
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News in February. Nomura’s Zhang
predicts expansion of gross domestic product will ease to 7.3
percent in the second half.  Purchasing managers indexes released over the past week
indicate the economy’s recovery from a seven-quarter slowdown
may have peaked.  A services industries gauge for February fell to 54.5 from
56.2 the previous month, the slowest expansion since September,
according to a report today from the National Bureau of
Statistics and  China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing .  The federation’s manufacturing PMI released March 1 fell to
50.1, the weakest level in five months, while a separate gauge
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to a four-
month low of 50.4. Readings above 50 indicate expansion while
those below that number signal a contraction.  Property Curbs  Moderating inflation is “good news for growth,” Song told
a forum. He estimated first-quarter economic expansion will
accelerate to 8.3 percent “mainly because the comparative base
in the first quarter of last year is very low.” The property
tightening measures were announced too late to affect expansion
for the period, he said.  GDP climbed 8.1 percent in the first three months of 2012
from a year earlier, down from 9.7 percent in the first quarter
of 2011, according to previously released data from the National
Bureau of Statistics.  The nation must be alert to changes in price-gain
expectations and to imported inflation, the  central bank  said in
a quarterly monetary policy report released Feb. 6. An economic
recovery and expansion in demand may pass through to the
consumer-price index in a “relatively fast manner,” and
monetary easing in major developed economies may push up
commodity prices, the central bank said.  Consumer inflation eased to 2 percent in January from a
year earlier after a 2.5 percent increase the previous month,
government data show. UBS AG estimated February’s rate was 3.3
percent while Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. forecast 3 percent, as
the Lunar New Year holiday pushed up food prices, according to
reports last week.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  