-- Clashes Leave at Least 16 Dead in Bangladesh Amid Strike
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-03-03T11:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/clashes-leave-at-least-16-dead-in-bangladesh-amid-strike.html
Clashes between backers of
 Bangladesh ’s largest Islamic party and security forces left at
least 16 people dead on the first day of a strike to protest a
death sentence against one of its leaders.  Today’s deaths raise to at least 51 the number of people
killed in unrest the past four days, according to news reports.
Violence erupted after  Jamaat-e-Islami  leader Delwar Hossain
Sayedee, 73, was sentenced to death for crimes committed more
than four decades ago during the country’s war of independence.  Jamaat-e-Islami  activists rioted in northern Bangladesh,
attacking police outposts and vandalizing government buildings
in violence that also left two children dead, according to RTV
television and the Daily Star newspaper. The government denied
reports that troops were being deployed to quell disturbances.  Sayedee was found guilty at a war crimes tribunal
investigating atrocities committed during the 1971 war.  The clashes have exposed the deep divisions in Bangladesh
over the war.  “Bangladesh is going through an important phase, which may
be painful for the time being,” said Shantanu Majumder, a
political science teacher at Dhaka University. “It’s a battle
between liberal democracy and religious extremism.”  The mainly secularist, middle-class protesters have been
occupying a square in Bangladesh’s capital since Feb. 5
demanding harsher penalties for those found guilty by the
tribunal. Supporters of Islamic parties say the trials are
politically motivated.  Security Tightened?  As police and paramilitary forces continued to tighten
security across the country,  Home Minister  Muhiuddin Khan
Alamgir denied that the army had entered some areas.  Jamaat, a key ally of the main opposition Bangladesh
Nationalist Party, called a three-day nationwide strike starting
today to protest the death sentence and the killings of its
supporters in clashes that began Feb. 28.  In Dhaka, banks and other financial institutions were open.
Buses and trains were operating normally in the capital.  The violence coincided with the visit of Indian President
Pranab Mukherjee to Bangladesh on his first trip overseas since
taking office in July.  At the end of British colonial rule in 1947, East and West
 Pakistan  were separated by 2,000 kilometers (1,240 miles) of
Indian territory. Pakistani troops in 1971 attempted to quell a
nationalist uprising in the east. The war ended nine months
later with the creation of Bangladesh after Indian forces helped
defeat  Pakistan ’s army.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  