-- CNPC to Spend $2.4 Billion on Upgrades to Produce Cleaner Fuel
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-03T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/cnpc-to-spend-2-4-billion-on-upgrades-to-produce-cleaner-fuel.html
China  National Petroleum Corp., the
nation’s biggest energy company, will spend 15 billion yuan
($2.4 billion) to upgrade the quality of fuel it refines,
General Manager Zhou Jiping said.  The money would allow CNPC to upgrade the standard of its
fuel to China IV from China III, Zhou said in Beijing yesterday
at annual meetings of the Chinese People’s Consultative
Conference. The cost of upgrading to China V from IV would be
less, he said.  China’s largest oil companies have announced plans for
billions of yuan of upgrades after air pollution in the Chinese
capital hit hazardous levels on 20 days in January.  China
Petrochemical Corp. (386)  Chairman Fu Chengyu said in an interview
with state broadcaster  China Central Television  last month that
the nation’s biggest refiner would spend about 30 billion  yuan  a
year to upgrade its plants to produce cleaner fuel.  The nation should also aggressively increase the use of
natural gas so that it accounts for a greater percentage of
total energy usage, Zhou said. China should exploit both
conventional and unconventional natural gas, he said, adding
that the company will see more gas output from its fields in
Qinghai, Sichuan and Talimu as well as Changqing.  Beijing tightened emissions criteria for new cars from Feb.
1, becoming the first city to adopt the China V standard that
caps sulfur content at 10 parts per million. China IV standard
caps sulfur content at 50 ppm.  All gasoline sold will have to be at the China IV standard
by the end of this year, Zhou said. Diesel will have to be at
the same standard by the end of next year, he said. The State
Council, China’s cabinet, said Feb. 6 that all fuel will need to
be at the China V standard by 2017.  About a third of CNPC’s fuel is at the China IV standard
now, according to Zhou.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  