-- The U.S. Is Helping to Keep Castros’ Regime Alive
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-03T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/cuba-sanctions-help-keep-castros-regime-alive.html
Is Cuba really America’s most
serious national security threat? You might think so from the
 sanctions  the U.S. imposes on it, which are more onerous than
those on  Iran  and  North Korea .  Cuba is hardly benign. It beats and imprisons dissidents,
commits aggressive espionage, cheers on Iran and  Syria , and
supports some of the Western Hemisphere’s most democratically
challenged regimes. Still, it is fitfully changing for the
better, and the U.S. can help speed along the process.  President  Raul Castro , the 81-year-old brother of Fidel,
has laid out plans for economic reform and is passing power to
Cuba’s post-revolutionary generation. The impending demise of
 Hugo Chavez , whose country supplies Cuba with about two-thirds
of its oil in a sugar-daddy barter arrangement, is another
potential catalyst for change.  That said, there’s an even better reason to alter U.S.
policy toward Cuba: It isn’t working. A half-century after  John F. Kennedy  slapped sanctions on the Castros, they’re still in
power. The U.S. embargo has little global support; no other
country puts sanctions on Cuba. Even more absurdly, sanctions
that were first imposed to protest Castro’s expropriation of
U.S. assets now keep most U.S. companies out of a Cuban market
that is attracting increasing amounts of foreign investment.
Although reliable numbers are elusive, one recent  report 
estimated that total foreign investment rose to $3.5 billion in
2009 from $1.9 billion in 2001.  Meanwhile, the sanctions regime sucks up U.S. resources.
From 2000 to 2006, the U.S. opened almost 11,000 Cuba sanctions
investigations, versus almost 7,000 for all other countries
combined.  The inflexible, maximalist nature of U.S. policy leaves the
initiative for improvement almost entirely with the Cuban side.
The infamous Helms-Burton legislation that passed in 1996
conditions any changes in U.S. sanctions on congressional
recognition of a transition government in Cuba, and gives
authority over the sanctions to Congress instead of the
executive branch.  This approach feeds the Cuban regime’s narrative that it is
locked in an uncompromising existential struggle. It also
prevents closer cooperation on regional issues that both
countries need to address, such as cleaning up oil spills and
fighting drugs and terrorism.  With a Republican-controlled  House of Representatives , a
repeal of Helms-Burton is unlikely. President  Barack Obama  is
not powerless, however. He has several opportunities to promote
greater openness and reform -- if he’s willing to take some
heat. Having won re-election with a  big bump  in his share of
 Florida ’s Cuban-American vote, he has some political room to
move.  The first thing Obama can do is take Cuba off the State
Department’s  list  of State Sponsors of Terrorism. It no longer
trains or arms revolutionary movements, and the U.S.
intelligence community decided as far back as 1998 that Cuba
posed no threat to national security. Indeed, compared with
hostile, nuclear-weaponized regimes such as North Korea (taken
off the list in 2008) or ostensible U.S. ally  Pakistan  (with its
clandestine links to the Taliban and other violent jihadist
groups), Cuba seems a beacon of peace. Removing it from the list
would open new avenues of commerce. It might also break the
stalemate over the case of Alan Gross, a U.S. contractor
imprisoned in 2009 for distributing computer equipment to
members of Cuba’s Jewish community.  In 2009 and 2011, the Obama administration wisely lifted
some restrictions on travel and cash remittances. It can  further
encourage  more direct contacts with the Cuban people by re-
establishing ferry services, authorizing financial and technical
help to small businesses, permitting Americans to donate and
trade in goods and services with entrepreneurs and independent
farmers and professionals, and expanding the licensing system
for travel to Cuba. (If Dennis Rodman had tried to go to Cuba
instead of North Korea, he might have had to wait months or
years for permission from the U.S. government.)  The Obama administration also has a more immediate problem:
Cuba’s decision to relax its emigration policy means that the
U.S., which has long granted preferential treatment to Cuban
refugees, may face a spike in new arrivals. Any effort at
comprehensive immigration reform needs to take those changed
circumstances into account.  Four years ago, the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee lamented U.S. policy toward Cuba. “After 50
years of failure,” he  said , “it’s time to try something new.”
That senator is now secretary of state. Let’s hope  John Kerry 
remembers his words.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 