-- Czechs Likely to Need Koruna Sales After June, Singer Say
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-03-04T15:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/czechs-will-probably-need-to-sell-koruna-after-june-singer-says.html
The Czech central bank will probably
need to sell the koruna to weaken the currency in the second
half of the year, Governor Miroslav Singer said, citing the
bank’s forecast.  While the forecast shows that currency intervention isn’t
necessary now, it says action is likely to be needed this year
and the bank board will debate on March 28 whether to enter the
market, Singer said in an interview for the Prague-based Euro
weekly magazine published on its website yesterday. Marek
Petrus, a central bank spokesman, confirmed the comments today
and said the interview took place Feb. 25.  The Czech central bank is navigating in uncharted territory
after cutting its  benchmark   interest rate  three times last year
to effectively zero. Policy makers are debating whether the
longest  recession  on record, which is taming inflation, warrants
more policy easing through a weaker koruna.  “At the next meeting, we will again contemplate whether to
go ahead with it,” Singer said, according to Euro. “According
to our current best assumption of this year’s developments, we
will probably need an intervention into the  exchange rate  some
time in the second half of the year.”  Koruna Moves  The koruna weakened as much as 0.4 percent today, after
easing 0.5 percent last week, before paring losses and trading
little changed at 25.656 to the euro as of 4:45 p.m. in Prague.
It has lost 4.4 percent against  Europe ’s common currency since
Sept. 17, a day before Singer first said the central bank may
use currency sales to ease monetary conditions, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Singer comments were “quite a strong signal from the
central bank about the need for a weaker koruna and relaxed
monetary conditions,” Marek Drimal, an economist at  Komercni
Banka AS (KOMB)  in Prague, said in a note to clients.  “On the other hand, it also decreases the likelihood of
interventions happening in the near future,” Drimal said.  The central bank, which targets inflation, left the two-
week repurchase rate at 0.05 percent for a second meeting on
Feb. 6, almost three-quarters of a percentage point less than
the euro-area benchmark.  The markets “didn’t fully recognize” the central bank’s
comments that rates won’t rise until it sees significant
inflation pressures, Singer said in the magazine interview.  “We wouldn’t want to find ourselves in a situation that
happened to some central banks, which prematurely increased
interest rates, and with that they slowed the economy too
much,” he said. “We gave a signal that interest rates will go
up only when we are fully certain that we won’t have to relax
monetary policy for some time.”  Revised Forecasts  The bank in February cut its economic forecasts for 2013 as
the government’s austerity measures continue to damp demand. It
sees 2013 gross domestic product contracting 0.3 percent,
compared with a previous estimate of 0.2 percent growth.  GDP shrank 0.2 percent in the final three months of last
year, marking the fourth consecutive quarterly decline,
according to preliminary data.  Inflation was the slowest in 16 months in January, with the
annual rate dropping to 1.9 percent from 2.4 percent in
December. Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as
price growth adjusted for changes in indirect taxes, was 1.1
percent, unchanged from December and near the lower end of the
central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target band.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  