-- Swiss ‘Fat Cat’ Vote Has Government Struggle on Details
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-03-04T13:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/devil-is-in-the-details-as-swiss-vote-to-curb-ceo-pay.html
The Swiss government must figure out
how to translate some of the world’s toughest rules on executive
pay into national law after voters overwhelmingly backed new
curbs in a referendum.  Swiss voters, still smarting after the country’s biggest
bank  UBS AG (UBSN)  had to take state aid during the financial crisis,
approved a proposal giving shareholders a binding vote each year
on executive pay with 67.9 percent of cast ballots.  Plebiscites take effect immediately and the government has
said it will issue directives for implementation within the next
year. Parliament will then have to amend national laws, leaving
some to wonder whether the measures may not lose some of their
bite.  “In Switzerland we say: The soup is seldom eaten as hot as
it is served,” Philip Mosimann, chief executive officer of
 Bucher Industries AG (BUCN) , said in a telephone interview today.  Yesterday’s result is a triumph for Thomas Minder, manager
of a century-old natural cosmetics company, who started the
initiative against “fat cats” in 2006 and has overcome the
opposition of high-profile corporate chief executive officers
such as  Paul Bulcke  of  Nestle SA (NESN) , the government, and parliament
in Bern. They said the curbs would damage Switzerland’s ability
to serve as a base for big corporations like oilfield service
company  Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT)   Possible Delay  One initiative still stuck in political wrangling is the
2010 initiative to expel foreigners convicted of serious crimes
-- politicians disagree about how to reconcile it with
international law.  Minder’s proposal may suffer a similar fate, according to
 Lorenz Hess , a member of the  BDP party , which opposed the
initiative. “There won’t be something immediately, there will
be some discussions,” Hess told Swiss television station SF1
yesterday.  Germany’s opposition today lauded the Swiss vote, raising
pressure on  Chancellor Angela Merkel  to adopt her own tougher
rules on executive pay. The European Parliament last week struck
a provisional deal to ban bonuses that are more than twice
bankers’ fixed pay as of next year.  “It’s not so radical as you might think at first glance,”
said Janwillem Acket, chief economist at  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) 
“It’s not against high wages, but against excesses, and it is
part of a European trend.”  ‘Best Athletes’  The initiative could cause Switzerland to lose out on top
talent, Stephane Rambossen, managing partner at executive search
firm Veni Partners LLP, said today on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” with  Francine Lacqua .  “It will necessarily have an impact,” he said. “You’ll
see some of the best athletes, as you do in sports or in other
industries, go to Asia, to other places.”  The Swiss government has pledged to stick closely to
Minder’s text, saying it understood voters’ resentment. Foreign
heads of corporations receive as much as 13 million francs (13.8
million) in annual pay, while blue-collar wage earners complain
immigration is pressuring their wages.  The initiative, which applies to Swiss firms listed
domestically and abroad, also bans big payouts for new hires and
for managers when they leave. Executives who violate the terms
can be punished with as long as three years in jail.  Vasella Payout  Novartis last month withdrew a plan to pay outgoing
chairman  Daniel Vasella  as much as $78 million to keep him from
working for a rival, after details of the payout elicited public
outrage.  “How it will be implemented isn’t clear yet, and that is
really key,” Acket said. “I don’t believe Switzerland as a
location for business will be damaged.”  At least five of Europe’s 20 highest-paid CEOs work for
Swiss companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
list includes three Americans: Credit Suisse head  Brady Dougan ,
 ABB Ltd. (ABBN) ’s Joe Hogan and Joe Jimenez of  Novartis AG. (NOVN)  Also among
the top tier are  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Austrian chief Severin Schwan and Nestle’sBulcke of Belgium.  “The negative consequences will be limited,” Bucher’s
Mosimann said. “But I hope that some boards, particularly in
the financial and pharmaceuticals industry, will look matters
over again.”  Piggy-backing on Minder’s success, the  Young Socialists  are
campaigning to prevent executives from being paid more than 12
times the wage of their lowest-paid employee. A plebiscite on
the matter is expected in the second half of the year, the group
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  