-- Dow to Get $2.48 Billion for Failed Kuwait Joint Venture
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-03-04T16:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/dow-chemical-compensation-awaits-kuwaiti-government-directive.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker by sales, will get $2.48 billion from
 Petrochemical Industries Co.  of Kuwait for a canceled joint
venture, an arbitration panel ruled.  The ruling comes after Petrochemical Industries, a unit of
state-owned Kuwait Petroleum Corp., canceled a contract to form
K-Dow, a 50-50 venture with Dow’s plastics unit, in December
2008. The arbitration panel of the  International Chamber of
Commerce  added interest and costs to last year’s $2.16 billion
award for a final total of $2.48 billion, Midland, Michigan-
based Dow said in a statement today.  “Payment of these damages of nearly $2.5 billion will
allow Dow to accelerate its priority uses for cash by further
strengthening our balance sheet,” Andrew N. Liveris, Dow
chairman and chief executive officer, said in the statement.
“The Dow team fully expects, and we are resolved to ensure,
that PIC honors its contractual commitments in a timely
manner.”  Dow said interest will continue to accrue until payment is
received. Petrochemical Industries said yesterday it was waiting
for the final award and direction from the Kuwaiti government
before issuing the payment.  “This is a ministerial issue,” Petrochemical Industries
Chairwoman and Managing Director Maha Mulla Hussein said in a
phone interview yesterday. “We didn’t receive any direction
from the ministerial committee. We’re waiting for any
direction.”  Venture Canceled  Petrochemical Industries canceled a contract to form the
joint venture under pressure from Kuwaiti lawmakers. The failure
of the venture deprived Dow of a $9 billion payment during the
financial crisis, almost derailed its 2009 purchase of Rohm &
Haas Co. and prompted the company’s first dividend cut.  Kuwait ’s parliament has demanded an investigation into why
the contract was canceled. Lawmakers last month moved a
submission to question Oil Minister Hani Hussein on five issues,
including the contract with Dow.  “Kuwait has to pay every cent of it, including the bank
interest rate since 2009,” Kamel Al-Harami, a Kuwait-based
independent oil analyst said by phone. “There is no ambiguity.
Whatever Kuwait is doing internally is irrelevant.”  Dow, which along with Petrochemical Industries holds a
stake in Kuwait-based Equate Petrochemical Co., reported fourth-
quarter  earnings  that missed analysts’ estimates as sales fell
in  Europe  and Chinese growth slowed. Dow’s board last month
approved a program to buy back as much as $1.5 billion of
shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  