-- Dragon Sword Game Helps NetEase Surpass Tencent: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-03-03T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/dragon-sword-game-helps-netease-surpass-tencent-china-overnight.html
NetEase Inc. (NTES) , the operator of
 China ’s second-largest online games website, rallied the most in
a year last month as plans for new online titles prompted Morgan
Stanley to boost profit estimates.  American depositary receipts of NetEase  jumped  10 percent
in February, making it the fourth-best performer on the
Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index. (CH55BN)  It beat  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ’s
1.2 percent retreat in dollar terms and  Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME) ’s 1.6
percent slump. The China-U.S. gauge of the most-traded Chinese
companies in the U.S. dropped for a fourth week, the longest
stretch of declines in nine months, led by  Ambow Education
Holding Ltd. (AMBO)   NetEase said on Feb. 6 that it expects to start selling
three new titles in the second half of the year, including
Dragon Sword, a three-dimensional game in which large numbers of
players compete within a virtual world, and Heroes of Three
Kingdoms, a real-time action strategy game. Revenue, driven by
new online titles, rose 14 percent in the fourth quarter. The
new releases led Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley to raise
their 2013 earnings forecast by as much as 7 percent.  “This company will surely keep growing as it always has
new self-developed games to offer,” Tian X. Hou, the founder of
T.H. Capital LLC who rates the stock buy, said by phone from
Beijing on March 1. “NetEase has the best research capability
among all online gaming companies in China.”  ADRs of NetEase have surged 22 percent this year, the
biggest gainer on the China-US gauge after online fashion store
 Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  Hong Kong-traded Tencent, China’s largest
Internet company by market value and also a web game operator,
has climbed 7.9 percent in 2013.  Beating Estimates  NetEase, which earned 88 percent of its 2012 sales from
online games, said  fourth-quarter profit  rose 12 percent from a
year earlier to $1.23 for each ADR, beating the $1.08 mean
forecast of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley analysts raised their estimates for Beijing-
based NetEase’s 2013 net income by 4 percent to 4.1 billion  yuan 
in a note dated Feb. 7. That would indicate a 14 percent growth
from its 2012 net income. Morgan Stanley reiterated a rating
equivalent to buy on the stock, citing “rich pipeline, low
valuation and strong  cash flow .”  Citigroup  lifted its estimate  for 2013 profit by 7 percent
as Deutsche Bank AG raised its recommendation on NetEase to buy
from hold.  Tencent Comparison  NetEase’s rally this year exceeded peers’ ranging from
Shanghai-based  Giant Interactive Group Inc. (GA) , which has gained 15
percent, and Beijing-based  Changyou.com Ltd. (CYOU) , with an 11 percent
advance.  NetEase also runs an online news portal, e-mail services
and online educational courses, making its services comparable
with those of Shenzhen, China-based Tencent, according to Hou at
T.H. Capital. NetEase  traded  at 9.9 times estimated earnings on
March 1, compared with a multiple of 23 for Tencent.  NetEase’s valuation still has room to rise, according to
Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc.,
which owns shares of NetEase, Giant Interactive, and Changyou.  “NetEase has a bunch of other hidden assets like its e-
mail service, which is likely not in the stock price,” he wrote
by e-mail March 1 from Lisle,  Illinois .  The  Bloomberg China-US gauge  of the most-traded Chinese
companies in the U.S. lost 0.1 percent to 94.08.  Weak PMI  China’s official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 50.1 in
February, the weakest level in five months, while a separate
gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics also dropped
to a four-month low, a signal the nation’s economic recovery
from a seven-quarter slowdown may be losing steam. The China-US
gauge plunged 6.2 percent in February, the largest monthly
decline since May, as concern grew policy makers will take steps
to curb rising home prices.  The PMI “is a little off-putting,” Mark Luschini, chief
investment strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which
manages $54 billion in assets including Chinese equities, said
in a telephone interview from Philadelphia March 1. “It would
be worrisome if we start to see any monetary tightening
associated with that at a time when an economy looks like it
began to re-accelerate.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., declined 0.9 percent to $38.60
for a weekly gain of 0.2 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  fell 0.2 percent to 1,518.20 on March 1.  Ambow Education tumbled 31 percent to $1.13 last week. The
company was sued by investors who accuse it of orchestrating a
“fake acquisition” to facilitate an initial public offering in
the U.S. It dropped 3.4 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  