-- Orascom Says Didn’t Receive Tax Claim Amid CEOs Travel Ban
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i   a n d   A h m e d   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-03-04T09:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/egypt-bans-oci-chief-sawiris-from-travel-over-tax-evasion-claim.html
Orascom Construction Industries, (OCIC)  the
Cairo-based company transferring to Amsterdam, said  Egypt  hasn’t
informed it of new tax claims after imposing a travel ban on
billionaire Chief Executive Officer  Nassef Sawiris .  Sawiris and his father and former Chairman Onsi were
forbidden to travel and placed on an arrivals watch list,
Moustafa Dweidar, a spokesman for Egypt’s Public Prosecutor’s
office, said yesterday in a telephone interview. The Sawiris’
are accused of owing 14 billion Egyptian pounds ($2.1 billion)
in back taxes, the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported
yesterday, citing an unnamed judicial official.  “The Egyptian Tax Authority has submitted a tax claim to
the company to pay 4.7 billion pounds related to the sale of
Orascom Building Materials Holding to  Lafarge SA (LG)  in 2007,” the
company said on its website. “To date, the company has received
no additional claim with any different tax liability.”  Orascom Construction  said it filed an appeal against the
claim, which is under review by the Egyptian Tax Authority’s
appeal committee. The company said it’s “confident” it didn’t
violate any laws pertaining to the sale and hasn’t received
formal notification of a travel ban related to the sale.  The company, which has construction and fertilizer units,
represents about a quarter of the EGX 30 Stock Index. OCI’s
shares declined 1.7 percent to 254.85 pounds at 10:50 a.m. in
Cairo, headed for the lowest close this year.  Capital Gains  Orascom Construction sold its cement unit in December 2007
to Lafarge for 8.8 billion euros ($11.4 billion) after it was
relisted on Egypt’s exchange in October of that year. The
company said in a statement at the time that under law number 91
of 2005 the sale is exempt of any  capital gains  tax.  President Mohamed Mursi said in an Oct. 6 speech that the
government is seeking to recover money owed by companies. While
not identifying any company, he said one of them avoided paying
tax on a profit of about 80 billion pounds from the sale of an
asset by listing it on the stock exchange two months previously.  Orascom Construction is in the process of transferring its
shares to Amsterdam from Cairo, giving shareholders the option
of exchanging their stakes for stock in Amsterdam-based OCI NV
or selling them to a group of investors led by  Bill Gates ’
Cascade Investments LLC for 280 pounds per share. The group,
which includes Southeastern Asset Management and Davis Selected
Advisors, has committed $2 billion toward buying stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net  