-- James Strong, Former Qantas Chief Executive, Dies at 68
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-04T01:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/ex-qantas-ceo-kathmandu-chairman-james-strong-dead-at-68.html
James Strong, the former chief
executive officer of  Australia ’s biggest carrier  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN)  and former chairman of the country’s largest retailer
 Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , died yesterday at age 68 in Sydney.  Strong died peacefully from “lung complications” after
surgery, according to a family statement released by Qantas. “A
beautiful man and a great loss. He will be profoundly missed by
many.”  During a diverse career in which he started out as a
barrister, Strong merged the state-owned Australian Airlines
Ltd. and Qantas and privatized the combined group in 1995. The
motor sports and mountain-climbing enthusiast was chairman of
outdoor equipment retailer  Kathmandu Holdings Ltd. (KMD)  at the time
of his death and chaired the organizing committee for the 2015
Cricket  World Cup  and V8 Supercars auto racing series.  “James was an adventurer, a philanthropist, and a great
supporter of Australian culture and sport,” Alan Joyce, Qantas
chief executive officer, wrote in an e-mailed statement. “For
me personally, James was a great mentor, and a great example of
corporate leadership. He will be sadly missed.”  Brought up on a dairy farm in the far north of New South
Wales state, Strong started officer training for the Australian
military at 16 and worked in an abattoir before commencing work
as a lawyer, The Power Index website reported in a  June, 2012
profile .  ‘Great Loss’  Strong was known for wearing a bow tie and was a patron of
the arts, working as chairman of the Australia Council for the
Arts and a board member of the  Sydney Writers’ Festival . He was
made an Officer of the Order of Australia in 2006 for services
to business and the arts as an administrator and philanthropist.  “His loss will be felt throughout the business community
in both Australia and New Zealand, and my fellow directors and I
are very grateful to have had the benefit of his leadership,”
John Harvey, Kathmandu’s interim chairman until the company’s
annual meeting, said today in a statement.  Strong was “one of the outstanding business leaders of his
generation” and led other directors in promoting gender
diversity on company boards, Australian Institute of Company
Directors Managing Director John Colvin wrote in an e-mailed
statement. Strong was formerly chairman and national director of
the body.  “He has made a massive contribution to corporate and
sporting life in Australia and  New Zealand ,” John Harnden,
chief executive of the 2015 Cricket World Cup, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Strong is survived by his widow Jeanne-Claude and sons Nick
and Sam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  