-- Federation Centres’ Sewell Sees Online Rivals Spurring Retailers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-03T00:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/federation-centres-sewell-sees-online-rivals-spurring-retailers.html
Australian retail outlets are
improving operations and profitability in response to the
challenge from online shopping rivals, said Steven Sewell, chief
executive officer of shopping mall operator  Federation Centres. (FDC)   “What it’s done, and we are seeing it in the listed
retailers’ results for the December half, is that the
profitability of most of the retail businesses in  Australia  is
actually doing very well,” Sewell told Australian Broadcasting
Corp. television today, according to a transcript. “You are
seeing a lot of retailers putting a lot of effort into making
sure they maximize the profitability of their businesses.”  Federation Centres, formerly known as Centro Retail
Australia, last month reported  net income  of A$115.9 million
($118 million) in the six months ended Dec. 31, from a loss of
A$100.1 million a year earlier.  Australian  consumer confidence  surged in February by the
most since 2011 as households responded to 1.75 percentage
points of reductions in the  benchmark interest rate  to a half-
century low of 3 percent. The nation’s currency has surged about
60 percent the past four years, reducing the cost of imports.  Retailers are “obviously helped by the currency,” Sewell
told ABC TV’s Inside Business program. “We think that retailers
are able to work out how they can fit both with the bricks and
mortar offer, so what’s their store face as well as their
distribution wholesale, or from an online channel.”  Happier Consumers  Reserve Bank of Australia Assistant Governor Christopher Kent said last month that consumer surveys have been showing
“quite a positive” trend in recent months.  “Consumers in the most recent reading are feeling better-
than-average across a number of sets of the indicators that go
into these surveys,” Kent said in a Feb. 15 speech in Perth.
Those sentiments were echoed by  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN) 
Chief Executive Officer Gerry Harvey.  “It does look as if, with the figures we’ve got in January,
February, that we’ve turned the corner,” Harvey said in a
comment shown on Inside Business today. “We’re now not seeing
sales decrease every month, which has been going on for such a
long time. They’re actually increasing.”  Concern about job security had curbed retail spending,
which fell in each of the final three months of 2012, the
longest decline in 13 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  