-- Gillard Bids to Win Back Western Sydney Heartland in Visit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-04T05:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/gillard-bids-to-win-back-western-sydney-heartland-in-5-day-visit.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  began a five-day visit to the key election battleground
of western Sydney, her Labor party’s traditional stronghold that
surveys indicate wants a change of government.  Gillard is trying to arrest her party’s poll slide in an
area that elected two of her Labor predecessors,  Paul Keating 
and Gough Whitlam. She will stay in the local suburb of Rooty
Hill rather than the  prime ministerial residence  on Sydney
harbor as she promotes her government’s achievements and tries
to contain fallout from scandals involving former local Labor
lawmakers at an anti-corruption commission.  The aim is to “talk to people in the community, work out
what’s on their mind, as well as talking to them about the
government’s programs and plans and the difference we’re trying
to make for peoples’ future,” Gillard said in a television
interview with Channel 9 today.  The political urgency of the visit was underscored by a
 weekend poll  that showed she faced the loss of four typically
safe Labor seats -- two held by government ministers -- if the
election was held now. Western Sydney is in the slow lane of
 Australia ’s  two-speed economy , with major employers including
manufacturing, retail and construction struggling in comparison
with the resource-rich regions of the nation’s north and west.  Job Security  Concern about job security, particularly in industrial
western Sydney, has intensified as a 56 percent rise in the
Australian dollar in the past four years hurts the
competitiveness of manufacturers. Rosella, a  saucemaker  founded
before Australia became a nation in 1901, announced it would
shut down March 1 with the loss of 70 jobs in the region.  The prime minister will visit at least six electoral
districts during the stay and hold a Cabinet meeting in western
Sydney. She gave a speech at the  University of Western Sydney 
late yesterday -- acknowledging the high currency’s impact on
the region’s manufacturers -- and earlier in the day announced a
taskforce to crack down on criminal groups. Gang violence and
shootings have increased in suburban Australia, she said.  Gillard today offered more than A$1 billion ($1 billion) to
start building a western Sydney motorway network, conditional on
the state government presenting a workable proposal. She said it
was important for families and a priority for the national
economy.  “Put simply, I want to see people able to get into town; I
want freight to be able to get to the port,” she told
reporters. “We are determined to see these issues addressed for
the people of western Sydney and for the businesses here.”  Battered Brand  Labor’s brand has been battered in New South Wales by
allegations heard at the  Independent Commission Against
Corruption  that former  Labor party  state minister Eddie Obeid
earned millions of dollars from illegal property deals.  A ReachTel automated poll published in the Sydney Morning
Herald newspaper on March 2 showed that the federal seats of
Werriwa, Chifley, Blaxland and McMahon -- all in western Sydney
-- would be lost if an election were held now. The survey of
more than 600 people in each seat had a margin of error of just
under 4 percent.  At the 2010 election, Chifley and Blaxland were won by
margins of 12.3 percent and 12.2 percent, respectively,
according to the  Australian Electoral Commission . McMahon and
Werriwa were held with 7.8 percent and 6.8 percent, it showed.  Preferred Leader  Gillard slipped behind opposition leader  Tony Abbott  as
Australia’s preferred leader for the first time since August, a
Newspoll published Feb. 26 showed. The ruling Labor party
trailed the Liberal-National opposition coalition by 10
percentage points on a two-party preferred basis, it showed.  The ReachTel poll showed a return to the leadership by
former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , who Gillard ousted in 2010,
would save two of the seats in western Sydney and make the other
two winnable.  “Each of these polls is yet another blow to the prime
minister’s authority,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a politics
lecturer at  Monash University  in  Melbourne . “Western Sydney is
crucial to any party that wants to form government.”  For much of last century, western Sydney was known
politically as an impoverished industrial region whose voters
supported Labor. The seats of Werriwa and Blaxland were held by
former Labor prime ministers Whitlam from 1952-1978 and Keating
from 1969-1996, respectively.  Changing Demographics  The area’s demographics are changing: one third of the
population was born outside of Australia, the highest proportion
for the Sydney area, according to  government data . People from
 Vietnam , the U.K., the  Philippines , Lebanon, and  China  led those
born overseas.  Former Labor leader Mark Latham, once the member for
Werriwa and a former aide to Whitlam who grew up in Sydney’s
west, said in a March 2  opinion piece  in the Australian
Financial Review that “economic affluence” is the area’s true
story.  “People who grew up in fibro shacks now live in double
story, solid stone homes,” Latham wrote. “ Across the region,
families which once manned the production lines of grease-
infested factories now own their own businesses or, at a
minimum, invest in the stock exchange.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  