-- Linde New CEO to Come From Outside as Reitzle Seeks No Extension
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-03-03T14:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/linde-new-ceo-to-come-from-outside-as-reitzle-seeks-no-extension.html
Linde AG (LIN) ’s next chief executive
officer will probably be an external candidate as the company’s
supervisory board looks to replace Wolfgang Reitzle, who will
not seek to extend his contract ending in May 2014.  Supervisory Board Chairman Manfred Schneider said he
searched internally and externally and has two candidates who
are not currently with the gases and engineering company.
Reitzle said he would stay on for a few months to ease the
transition for the successor, according to an interview with him
and Schneider in today’s newspaper Welt am Sonntag. Linde
spokesman Uwe Wolfinger confirmed the comments.  Reitzle, who has been at the helm of Munich, Germany-based
Linde since 2003, in October denied that a headhunter had been
hired to find his successor, saying that it is unusual to
discuss succession issues 18 months ahead of time. The CEO, who
previously spent 26 years in the car industry, said he will have
the chance to “reorganize his career” after he steps down.  The CEO said he will not join the company’s supervisory
board immediately as there wouldn’t be “big acceptance” for an
appointment. Asked if he would join the oversight board in 2016
after the two-year cooling-off period, he said that it would be
the board’s decision.  Schneider will probably stay on as chairman. The
supervisory board decided to first address the question of
finding a successor for the CEO, the chairman said. Franz Fehrenbach, currently supervisory board chairman of Robert Bosch
GmbH, is a candidate for a spot opening on the supervisory board
in May, Schneider said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  