-- Indonesian Palm Reserves Seen Declining by Bangun on Demand
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-03-04T05:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/indonesian-palm-reserves-seen-dropping-by-bangun-as-demand-gains.html
Palm oil inventories in  Indonesia ,
the world’s largest producer, may drop 8 percent this year as a
significant increase in demand outstrips record supplies,
according to Derom Bangun, chairman of the nation’s palm board.
Prices rallied, snapping eight days of losses.  Stockpiles of the oil used in food and fuels may contract
to 2.3 million metric tons from the 2.5 million tons estimated
at the end of 2012, said Bangun, who is scheduled to speak this
week at an annual palm conference in Kuala Lumpur arranged by
Bursa  Malaysia  Bhd. Production may reach an all-time high of
about 30 million tons, Bangun said in a phone interview from
Jakarta, reiterating a forecast made on Feb. 18.  The world’s most-used cooking oil is mired in a bear market
as supply and stockpiles have surged to records. Futures on the
Bursa Malaysia Derivatives lost 23 percent last year as an
economic slowdown in  China  and the  European debt crisis  curbed
demand. Dorab Mistry, a director at Godrej International Ltd.
who’s traded the oil for more than three decades, has said the
outlook for 2013 is bearish as global oilseed supplies increase.  “Although there will be an increase in production in both
Indonesia and Malaysia, I strongly believe that at the same time
there will be a significant increase in demand in  India , China,
Indonesia and  Europe ,” said Bangun. “Demand will slightly
exceed supply. So I’m bullish.”  Palm futures on Bursa Malaysia Derivatives, a unit of the
Bursa Malaysia, gained 1.2 percent to 2,397 ringgit ($771) a ton
by the market’s midday break in Kuala Lumpur. Bangun declined to
give a price outlook before his March 6 address to the Palm and
Lauric Oils Conference & Exhibition.  Record Reserves  Stockpiles in Indonesia rose to 3.5 million tons in January
from 3.25 million tons the previous month, according to a
Bloomberg survey. The January total is the highest figure since
the surveys began last year. The country doesn’t release
official data on reserves or output. Malaysian  inventories  were
2.58 million tons in January, near the all-time high of 2.63
million tons in December, according to that country’s palm oil
board. Malaysia is the second-largest producer.  Godrej’s Mistry, who’s also set to address the conference,
told Bloomberg last month that palm probably will drop this year
after producers boosted acreage and global oilseed supplies rose.
Chris de Lavigne, global vice president of consulting at Frost &
Sullivan, another scheduled speaker, said that inventories will
probably remain high as production is outpacing demand.  Global Supply  Global palm stockpiles will climb 7.9 percent to a record
7.203 million tons this season, according to a projection from
the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Record global supply of 53.3
million tons will outpace demand of 51.8 million tons, USDA
forecasts show. Indonesia and Malaysia account for about 87
percent of worldwide supply, and 89 percent of global shipments.  India, which fulfills less than half of its edible oil
needs with domestic crops, will still need to import the balance,
with palm making up about 75 percent of total purchases, Bangun
said on Feb. 28. India imposed a 2.5 percent duty on imports of
unprocessed oils in January.  Cooking oil  imports  by India, the biggest palm buyer, will
probably climb to a record in the year through October,
exceeding 9.98 million tons in 2011-2012,  Atul Chaturvedi , chief
executive officer of Adani Wilmar Ltd., said Feb. 26. Demand
will gain 6 percent to 17.5 million tons this year due to rising
population and disposable incomes, said B.V. Mehta, executive
director of the Solvent Extractors’ Association of India.  European Recovery  Palm demand will be boosted by improving economic conditions
in the euro region, as well as a decision by the European
Commission to allow use in biofuels of oil that’s been certified
by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, or RSPO, Bangun said.  The  European Commission  on Nov. 23 approved the use of
RSPO-certified palm for biofuels under the region’s so-called
renewable-energy directive requirements, according to the
group’s  website . The organization comprises growers, processors,
traders, consumer-goods manufacturers, retailers, banks and
investors, as well as environmental and non-governmental groups
involved in setting global standards for the tropical oil.  Indonesia’s push to use more palm in biofuel will increase
domestic consumption by 800,000 tons this year, Bangun said.
Indonesia’s plan to raise blending in fuel this year may require
2 million tons of palm, Deputy Trade Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi
said on Feb. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  