-- This Bud’s Not Water, Anheuser-Busch Counters in Ads
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-04T01:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/this-bud-s-not-water-anheuser-busch-says-in-ad-countering-suits.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the brewer
sued last week for allegedly overstating the alcohol content of
its Budweiser and other beers, hit back today with an
advertising campaign in major U.S. newspapers.  “They must have tested one of these,” the full-page ads
say, showing a can of the drinking water that the company
donates to the American Red Cross for  disaster relief . “We take
no shortcuts and make no exceptions. Ever.”  The ads appeared in 10 newspapers, including the New York
Times, the Los Angeles Times, the  Chicago Tribune  and the
 Houston Chronicle , Terri Vogt, a spokeswoman for AB InBev’s St.
Louis-based Anheuser-Busch Cos., said in an interview today.  The company was responding to federal lawsuits filed last
week by consumers alleging that it routinely adds extra water to
finished products to produce malt beverages with significantly
less alcohol content than displayed on its labels, violating
state statutes on consumer protection. The complaints were filed
in  New Jersey , Philadelphia and San Francisco.  Leuven, Belgium-based AB InBev is the world’s largest
brewer and controls 39 percent of the U.S. beer market. “The
claims against Anheuser-Busch are completely false, and these
lawsuits are groundless,” Peter Kraemer, the unit’s vice
president of brewing and supply, said in a statement posted on
its website Feb. 27.  The brewer’s ads are “classic non-denial denials which
completely ignore the merits of our lawsuit,” Josh Boxer, an
attorney at the Mills Law Firm in San Rafael,  California , wrote
in an e-mail today. The firm is representing plaintiffs in the
San Francisco case.  Seeking Approval  AB InBev is seeking government approval to buy the rest of
Grupo Modelo SAB, Mexico’s largest beermaker, for $20.1 billion.
The Modelo brands account for 7 percent of the U.S. market.  The company’s  shares  rose about 43 percent to 72.23 euros
in Brussels in the year through March 1, outpacing an 11 percent
increase in the BEL 20 Index.  The case is Greenberg v. Anheuser-Busch Cos LLC, 13-cv-
01016, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania 
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net  