-- Italy May Need New Election With No Deal on Bersani
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-03-03T14:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/italy-may-need-new-election-with-no-deal-on-bersani.html
Italy  may hold new elections within
months should Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani fail to
win support in parliament to form a government after
inconclusive elections.  There are no alternatives to a vote “in a few months” if
Bersani doesn’t get a majority in parliament, Stefano Fassina,
economic-policy spokesman for Bersani, said today on Sky TG24
TV. “We should name a new president, change the electoral law
and then return to polls as soon as possible.”  Italian bond yields surged after elections on Feb. 24-25
ended in a four-way parliamentary split, raising doubt over the
stability of the next government. Bersani, whose party won the
most votes, failed to gain control of parliament as former Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and comedian-turned-politician Beppe Grillo won blocking minorities in the Senate.  Bersani has resisted cooperation with Berlusconi and has
said he would seek a compromise with Grillo’s upstart political
movement. Grillo must take responsibility and say how he wants
to restructure the house or “we’ll all go home,” Bersani said
late yesterday in a televised interview on RAI 3.  Bersani is under pressure to provide Italy with a stable
government to pull the economy out of an 18-month recession and
help the country service its $2.6 trillion debt. Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report Feb. 27 that the gridlock may
re-ignite the euro-area’s debt crisis as turmoil in the bloc’s
third-largest economy risks spilling over into weaker sovereigns
like Portugal and  Spain .  New elections may be held in June, July or after summer,
Fassina said today. Italian voters “rejected” austerity
measures imposed by  Mario Monti ’s government and the euro area
isn’t on the right road to end the crisis, he said.  Grillo’s Party  Italian President Giorgio Napolitano said yesterday parties
should put public interest and the country’s international
reputation first as Grillo reiterated his anti-austerity 5 Star
Movement won’t back any government.  The comedian, whose party will be the third-largest in
parliament, reiterated yesterday on his blog that his group
won’t give a confidence vote to any government.  Grillo said he favors  Europe  and proposes an online
referendum on the euro, Italian newswire Ansa reported
yesterday, citing an interview with German Bild.  Napolitano won’t back a minority government by Bersani and
may seek a new technocratic government, la Repubblica newspaper
reported today, without citing anyone. Fassina said Italians
wouldn’t accept a non-elected government.  European Union leaders, including EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  and German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle , said last week that Italian government stability is
crucial to the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  