-- Stocks Rise, Treasuries Fall; Oil Slides to Two-Month Low
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g ,   S a r a h   P r i n g l e   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-03-04T21:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/japan-stock-futures-rise-on-stimulus-bets-euro-drops-on-italy.html
U.S. stocks rose, with the Dow Jones
Industrial Average closing within 40 points of a record, amid
optimism the Federal Reserve will continue to provide monetary
stimulus. Commodities dropped on concern changes in  China ’s
policies may slow growth and hurt the global recovery.  The Dow rose 38.16 points to 14,127.82 while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.5 percent to 1,525.20 after
retreating 0.4 percent earlier. The S&P GSCI Index of
commodities fell for a fifth day, the longest slump of the year,
as oil dipped below $90 a barrel for the first time this year.
 Japan ’s five-year rate  slid  two basis points to a record 0.095
percent.  Italy ’s 10-year  yield  rose amid concern the country may
need to hold another election. U.S. Treasuries fell.  Financial stocks helped lead gains as Federal Reserve Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen said the central bank should press on with
$85 billion in monthly bond buying while tracking possible costs
and risks from the program. Earlier losses in global stocks
followed data showing China’s service industries grew last month
at the slowest pace since September and the cabinet last week
tightened mortgage rules to cool the property market.  “The Fed is going to be our friend for an extended period
of time,” Michael Mullaney, chief investment officer at Boston-
based Fiduciary Trust Co., which manages $9.5 billion, said by
telephone. “And as the old adage goes, don’t fight the Fed,”
he said. “Risk assets are going to do reasonable well as long
as the Fed and other central banks have got their checkbooks
open, which is what they have right now.”  Budget Talks  While President  Barack Obama  phoned Democratic and
Republican legislators over the weekend, his aides and
congressional leaders signaled automatic spending cuts would
continue for weeks, possibly months. Both sides indicated that
revisiting the reductions would begin after they resolve a
looming confrontation over legislation that’s needed to keep
federal agencies running beyond March 27, placing a premium on
avoiding a government shutdown.  “It’s going to be choppy this month,” said Michael Mullaney, chief investment officer at Boston-based Fiduciary
Trust Co., which manages $9.5 billion. “We have this March 27th
debt ceiling limit coming up. The partisan rancor is probably
going to be pretty active coming out of  Washington  for the next
few weeks.”  Investors have reduced bearish stock bets to the lowest
level since at least 2007 as the bull market in American
equities begins its fifth year.  Short Interest  Short sales in the S&P Composite 1,500 Index fell to 5.6
percent of shares available for trading in February, down from a
record 12 percent during the credit crisis and the lowest ever
in data compiled by Bespoke Investment Group and Bloomberg
starting six years ago. The last time the number of shares
borrowed and sold short approached this level, the equity gauge
lost 3.3 percent in the next three months.  Bulls say the capitulation by market bears shows the rally
remains intact and that more money will flow into stocks after
individuals sent $37.9 billion to mutual funds in January, the
most since 2004. It also means a source of demand is
diminishing, a traditional signal for caution in an aging bull
market. Less than 1 percent of the shares of Ford Motor Co. and
 Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG)  have been borrowed and sold short by
speculators hoping to return them to owners once prices fall.  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said stocks will do
well and the greater risk is to sit out the market’s rally.  ‘Do Fine’  “American business will do fine over time. And stocks will
do well just as certainly,” Buffett said in his annual letter
to shareholders. “Since the basic game is so favorable, Charlie
and I believe it’s a terrible mistake to try to dance in and out
of it based upon the turn of tarot cards, the predictions of
’experts,’ or the ebb and flow of business activity. The risks
of being out of the game are huge compared to the risks of being
in it,” he said, referring to Berkshire Hathaway Vice Chairman
Charles Munger.  The S&P 500 Financials Index climbed 0.9 percent and the
consumer-discretionary gauge rose 1 percent to a record to help
lead gains among the  10 main groups  in the S&P 500 today. Home
Depot Inc. and Citigroup Inc. rallied almost 2 percent paced the
advance.  Airlines Rally  Delta Air Lines Inc. rose 5.6 percent to a five-year high
of $15.65, pacing a rally in airlines, after increasing the
lower end of its guidance for unit revenue. This will be Delta’s
best first quarter in over 12 years, President Ed Bastian said
today on a webcast of a presentation at a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
transportation conference in New York. The  NYSE Arca Airline
Index (XAL)  rallied 3.3 percent as lower oil prices also boosted the
group.  Hess Corp. jumped 3.5 percent after saying it will exit
energy trading, marketing and retail businesses while doubling
its dividend and announcing plans to buy back as much as $4
billion in stock. Yahoo! Inc. climbed 3.5 percent after an
analyst at Barclays Plc raised his rating on the company to
overweight from equalweight.  Treasury 10-year yields added three basis points to 1.875
percent.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index closed little changed after
losing as much as 0.6 percent earlier. Commodity producers
posted the biggest decline among 19 industry groups in the
 benchmark index , sliding 2.1 percent.  HSBC Holdings Plc retreated 2.5 percent as Europe’s largest
bank said profit fell 5.6 percent in 2012 after taking a $5.2
billion charge for revaluing its own debt.  Debenhams Plc (DEB)  plunged
15 percent, the most since 2008 on a closing basis, after
predicting that  pretax profit  will drop in the first half of the
year because of snow in January.  Repsol Gains  Repsol SA added 2.5 percent as Spain’s largest oil producer
sold a 5.04 percent stake to Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s
state-owned investment company. The oil producer had said it
would consider selling shares after  Argentina ’s government
seized its YPF business last April.  European finance ministers were meeting in Brussels today,
while a top aide to Italy’s Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani said the country may need to hold another election this
year.  The drop in Italian 10-year bonds sent yields up nine basis
points to 4.88 percent, near the highest in more than three
months. German 10-year yields were little changed at 1.42
percent after falling to 1.39 percent, the lowest since Jan. 2.  The euro slipped 0.2 percent versus the yen and was little
changed at $1.3021. The Aussie dollar tumbled as much as 0.9
percent to $1.0115, the lowest level since July.  Norway ’s krone
strengthened against all 16 major counterparts.  The gain in Japanese bonds came after Haruhiko Kuroda, the
nominee to be  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor, said he would do whatever
is needed to end 15 years of deflation. The yield on the
 benchmark  10-year note fell four basis points to 0.61 percent.  Crude oil lost 0.6 percent to a two-month low of $90.12 a
barrel in New York after dropping to as low as $89.33.  Commodities  “We have disappointing economic news out of China,” said
John Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based
hedge fund that focuses on energy. “There are problems out
there for the economy and for oil demand; $90 is a critical
level and we are poised to fall rather quickly down to $88.”  Wheat fell for the first time in five days, snapping the
longest rally in six weeks, after a survey showed reserves will
top a government forecast in the U.S., the world’s biggest
exporter. Lead and zinc declined at least 0.9 percent as 15 of
24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index fell.  U.K. natural gas for delivery today jumped as much as 69
percent after exports from Norway into Europe’s biggest market
decreased to a four-month low.  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 1 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index slipped 3.7 percent, the most since
August 2011, as property developers slumped after China’s
Cabinet on March 1 called for higher downpayments and interest
rates for second-home mortgages in some cities. The non-
manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 54.5 in
February from 56.2 in January, the Beijing-based National Bureau
of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said yesterday.  Taiwan’s Taiex slipped 1.2 percent While South Korea’s
Kospi,  Russia ’s Micex Index and  Brazil ’s Bovespa fell at least
0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net ;
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  