-- Kenya Stocks, Shilling Rally on Violence-Free Vote Hopes
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   V e r n o n   W e s s e l s
-- 2013-03-04T14:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/kenya-stocks-rally-with-currency-on-bets-for-violence-free-vote.html
Kenya’s currency is trading at its
highest level in 10 weeks and stocks are rallying as investors
bet the East African nation will avoid a repeat of the prolonged
violence that followed 2007 elections in today’s vote.  The  Nairobi All Share index  has advanced 13 percent this
year, the third-best performance in sub-Saharan Africa after
Nigeria and Ghana for dollar investors. The gauge trades at 11.9
times profit, compared with 11.7 times for the  MSCI Frontier
Markets Index (NSEASI) , which is up 7 percent. The shilling appreciated
1.8 percent against the dollar last week, its strongest week in
more than 14 months and the best-performing African currency.  Today’s presidential election was the first since more than
1,100 people were killed in clashes after the last ballot, which
caused economic growth to slump by two-thirds in 2008, the
shilling to fall 8.5 percent and the benchmark stock index to
drop 11 percent. East Africa’s biggest economy may grow as much
as 6 percent this year from about 5 percent in 2012, according
to the  International Monetary Fund .  “People are pricing in a free and fair election,” Sven Richter, managing director of frontier markets at Renaissance
Asset Management in Johannesburg, which has more than $150
million in African funds, said by phone on March 1. “We’re not
concerned. If there are any issues of violence, they will
probably be sporadic and short-lived.”  Police Reinforcements  Police reinforcements were deployed in Kenya’s Coast
province today after at least 14 people died in a series of
separatist attacks.  The Mombasa Republican Council, which seeks autonomy for
the coastal region and has called for a boycott of the vote,
carried out at least three attacks last night that left eight
policemen dead, Samuel Kilele, the provincial commissioner, said
in a phone interview. Six of the group’s members died and four
were arrested, Police Inspector-General David Kimaiyo said.  Reforms under a constitution enacted in 2010 have
strengthened the judiciary’s independence and built safeguards
into the electoral process. Candidates have said they are
prepared to concede defeat and settle disputes in court.  The IMF growth forecast for Kenya outpaces the average
estimate for emerging and developing markets at 5.5 percent and
the 3.5 percent expansion seen for the global economy.  Stock Rally  The All Share index advanced 38 percent last year, the top
performer in sub-Saharan Africa after Nigeria. Gains on the
Kenyan bourse this year have been  led  by  AccessKenya Ltd. (ACCESS) , the
country’s only publicly traded Internet company, which has
surged 48 percent. Other leading stocks include  Kenya
Electricity Generating Co. (KEGC) ,  ARM Cement Ltd. (ARML) ,  Kenya Commercial
Bank Ltd. (KNCB)  and  Housing Finance Ltd. (HFCL)  Foreign investment
represented 49 percent of all trading in Kenyan equities in
2012, up from 10 percent in 2007, according to data from the
Nairobi Securities Exchange.  “We’re always cautious in an election year,” Joseph Rohm,
a portfolio manager who helps manage more than $1.5 billion for
Investec Asset Management’s African funds, said by phone from
Cape Town on March 1. “There is always a degree of uncertainty
so we wait and see.”  Investec, which runs the largest African-focused  funds 
excluding  South Africa , will add to holdings of Kenyan  equities 
should the elections be followed by violence and spur investors
to dump the nation’s stocks.  The money manager prefers companies that have regional
operations across the East African Community, a $79.2 billion
economy whose members include Tanzania, Rwanda, Uganda and
Burundi. Some of the industries it is looking at include those
exposed to consumers, cement and civil engineering and banks,
Rohm said.  ‘Liquidity Spectrum’  “We will not necessarily only look at large-cap stocks, it
would be across the liquidity spectrum,” he said, declining to
identify potential  investments . “You can access the economic
growth of the entire East African region through the Kenyan
exchange.”  The Nairobi Securities Exchange’s  20-Share Index (KNSMIDX)  may rise
as much as 30 percent by the end of this year,  Aly-Khan Satchu ,
chief executive officer of Nairobi-based investment company Rich
Management Ltd., said by phone last month. His biggest holdings
include Kenya Commercial Bank,  Standard Chartered Bank Kenya
Ltd. (SCBL)  and  Williamson Tea Kenya Ltd. (GWKL) , he said.  “There is considerable headroom for the market to rise,”
Satchu said. “We’re still below levels seen in the fourth
quarter of 2007.”  Trading Levels  While share prices are rising, trading levels are thin
relative to South Africa, Africa’s largest stock market, making
it difficult for investors to exit their investments. An average
19.1 million shares traded on the All Share index last week
compared with 245.4 million on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange’s
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Share. (JALSH)  The equity market is closed for
today’s vote.  The shilling may weaken to 91 per dollar in the next three
months because of “lingering political risk” before
“recouping some ground” in the second half of this year,
 Michael Keenan , a Sub-Saharan Africa strategist at Barclays
Plc’s Absa Capital in Johannesburg, said by phone March 1.
Companies had accumulated dollars in the months before the
election, while the  central bank  helped to stem a decline in the
currency by draining excess liquidity, he said.  Central Bank  The central bank has removed 191 billion shillings from the
market this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
bank also sold dollars between Jan. 18 through Jan 29. The
shilling was little changed at 85.90 per dollar as of 5:05 p.m.
in Nairobi. The currency fell as low as 85.31 per dollar on Feb.
28, its best level since Dec. 21.  “If elections are peaceful and a clear winner emerges, we
expect an increase in dollar demand as businesses pick up their
operations” after holding off on investments in the run up to
the vote, Keenan said.  The NSE-20 Index reached a record high of 6,161.46 on Jan.
12, 2007. It closed at 4,510. 47 on March 1, having finished
last year at 4,133.02. The  Nairobi Stock Exchange , which has a
market value of 1.45 trillion shillings ($16.9 billion), is sub-
Saharan Africa’s biggest bourse after South Africa, which has a
market value of $509 billion, and Nigeria, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “If we don’t have any issue with the elections, we could
see the index at 5,000 points by the end of the year,” Kuria Kamau, a research analyst at Nairobi-based Kestrel Capital (East
Africa) Ltd., said in a phone interview last month.  Stock Picks  Kestrel Capital’s top stock picks for 2013 include
 Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) , the country’s biggest mobile-phone company,
Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd., the largest lender by assets,  Equity
Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , the biggest by customers, and  Co-operative Bank of
Kenya Ltd. , the fourth-biggest by market value, the Nairobi-
based brokerage said last month.  Renaissance Asset Management, which targets a 15 percent
dollar  return  a year for its investments, owns stakes in Kenya
Commercial Bank, Co-operative Bank of Kenya and Equity Bank. It
also owns shares of  East African Breweries Ltd. (EABL) ,  TPS Eastern
Africa Ltd. (TPSEA)  and  Kenya Power & Lighting Ltd. (KPLL)  and may look to buy
stocks in financial services and the fast-moving consumer goods
and construction industries, Richter said, declining to be
specific.  “You need to position yourself for the long term and look
through any short-term risk,” he said. “The opportunity set in
frontier markets like Kenya is so huge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  