-- Kenyans Vote Amid Increased Security to Avoid Repeat of Violence
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-03-03T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/kenya-seeks-to-avoid-violence-as-nation-prepares-for-elections.html
Kenyans begin voting today in a
presidential election with security forces on high alert to
prevent a repeat of ethnic violence that marred the last ballot
and curbed economic growth.  An increase in support for Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta, 51, has put him in a dead heat with Premier  Raila Odinga , 68, in a race that includes six other challengers,
according to a Feb. 22 poll conducted by Ipsos-Synovate Kenya,
the Nairobi-based research company. The first round may fail to
produce an outright winner, which would mean Kenyatta and Odinga
face off in a second round.  Allegations of ballot fixing after the last election in
December 2007 sparked two months of clashes between people armed
with machetes, spears, and bows and arrows that left about 1,100
dead and more than 350,000 homeless. Economic growth slowed to
1.5 percent in 2008 from 7 percent a year earlier, after farmers
fled their fields and tourists stayed away.  “The commission has put in place all the necessary
measures to ensure a free, fair and credible election,”
Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission Chairman Issack
Hassan told reporters yesterday in Nairobi, the capital. More
than 99,000 security personnel have been deployed to ensure the
vote is peaceful, he said.  Kenyatta and his running mate  William Ruto , a former
Cabinet minister, are facing trial at the  International Criminal
Court . They, along with two other Kenyan suspects, are accused
of crimes against humanity for orchestrating violence after the
last ballot. The men, who were rivals in the 2007 vote, deny the
allegations.  Foreign Investors  The outcome of the election is being closely watched by
foreign investors in a country that serves as the regional hub
for companies including Google Inc., International Business
Machines Corp., Visa Inc. and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Kenya’s NSE  All Share index  has gained 13 percent this
year, adding to a 39 percent rise last year that ranked the
gauge as sub-Saharan  Africa ’s best performer. Foreign investment
represented 49 percent of all trading in Kenyan equities last
year, compared with 10 percent in 2007, according to the Nairobi
Securities Exchange. The shilling posted its biggest weekly
advance in 14 months last week, climbing 1.8 percent to 85.88
per dollar on March 1, its strongest level this year.  “Investors seeking growth and profitability are attracted
to Kenya since the country and companies in the country are
growing at a good pace,” said  Mark Mobius , who oversees more
than $50 billion as executive chairman of Templeton  Emerging
Markets  Group. “The election turmoil has not yet impacted the
economy and is unlikely to do so unless widespread violence
breaks out.”  Third Attempt  Odinga is running for the presidency a third time, after
unsuccessful campaigns in 1997 and 2007. His allegation that
incumbent Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki stole the 2007 election
triggered the violence. Odinga became prime minister as part of
power-sharing deal with Kibaki to stop the unrest. Kibaki, 81,
is retiring after he served the two-term limit.  The platforms of the top candidates show little difference
in policy. Both men have promised to target spending on
infrastructure and agricultural development to help boost the
economy and create jobs. About 40 percent of Kenyans are
unemployed. The rate is worse for youth; 70 percent don’t have
work, according to the International Labour Organization.  Still, the $33.6 billion economy is expanding, driven by an
emerging middle class and growth in banking and technology.
Economic growth may reach as much as 6 percent this year from an
estimated 5 percent in 2012, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  Oil, Gas  The winner will also assume management of possible future
oil and gas revenue. The discovery of Kenya’s first crude by
 Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  a year ago has accelerated exploration in the
region and raises the chance of it becoming an oil producer.  To win the first round, a candidate must secure more than
50 percent of the votes cast and a quarter of support in the
majority of Kenya’s 47 counties. Kenyatta polled 45 percent,
while Odinga garnered 44 percent support in Ipsos-Synovate’s
survey of 5,971 Kenyans between Feb. 15 and Feb. 19. A
presidential runoff needs to be conducted 30 days after the
first round. Kenyatta and Odinga delivered speeches at rallies
on March 2 marking the end of the campaign period, both urging
for a high turnout among Kenya’s 14.3 million registered voters.  Kibaki, speaking in a nationally televised address on March
1, reiterated his call for Kenyans to vote peacefully.  Besides Kibaki’s replacement, voters will also choose 290
lawmakers as well as governors, women’s representatives and
senators for 47 counties and 1,450 delegates for county
assemblies.  History of Violence  Violence has accompanied every election in  Kenya  since
multiparty democracy in 1992, save for one in 2002. The clashes
have affected the Rift Valley breadbasket where land disputes
have been rife since before Kenya’s independence from Britain in
1963. Kenya is the world’s largest black tea exporter and it
supplies a third of the flowers sold in  Europe .  Kenya has taken steps over the past five years to prevent
tensions from escalating at elections, overhauling the judiciary
and enacting a constitution in 2010 designed to distribute power
and resources more equitably.  The electoral commission has introduced biometric voter
registration and will receive results by secure text-messaging
from tallying centers. About 22,600 international and domestic
observers are expected to monitor the vote. All candidates have
agreed to accept defeat if they legitimately lose and use the
courts to settle dispute over the results.  “Hopes are high because we’ve seen a lot of changes to
mechanisms such as the police and courts since 2007-08, which
should help us avoid seeing the same kind of misery we did the
last time,” Tom Ocholla, a professor of politics at the
University of Nairobi, said by phone.  About 33,000 polling stations will be open from 6 a.m. to 5
p.m., according to the commission. Provisional results of the
presidential vote are expected to be announced in 48 hours,
Hassan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  