-- Kerry Says U.S. to Release $190 Million of Economic Aid to Egypt
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-03-03T17:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/kerry-says-u-s-to-release-190-million-of-economic-aid-to-egypt.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry ,
in his first trip to  Egypt  in the role, said the U.S. government
will release $190 million of its pledged $1 billion in economic
aid to the country.  The announcement followed a meeting in Cairo today with
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi and is part of “a good-faith
effort to spur reform and help the Egyptian people at this
difficult time,” Kerry said in a statement.  During his visit, Kerry urged Egyptians to respect
democratic rights, engage with each other and compromise in
order to restore the economy. Kerry’s goal is to encourage
Egyptians to tackle changes required for a $4.8 billion
International Monetary Fund loan.  “Over the past couple of days in Egypt, I have listened to
a broad cross-section of political leaders, business leaders and
representatives of non-governmental organizations,” Kerry said.
“The people I met shared their deep concern about the political
course of their country, the need to strengthen human rights
protections, justice and the rule of law, and their fundamental
anxiety about the economic future of Egypt,” he said.  The $190 million is part of a $1 billion package of support
pledged by President  Barack Obama  in May of 2011. That aid was
broken into two pieces and included $450 million that had been
held up by  U.S. Congress  out of concern over Egypt’s political
developments, according to a U.S. official who was unauthorized
to speak on the record.  Kerry came to Egypt with the authority to release the first
$190 million of the $450 million in “budget support funds.”
The rest would be provided once Egypt qualifies for the IMF
loan, the official said.  Today, Kerry also announced $60 million toward the start of
the Egyptian-American Enterprise Fund, which will fuel “key
engines of democratic change in Egypt” by assisting Egyptian
entrepreneurs and “its young people.” The fund will rise to
$300 million in coming years “as we work with our Congress on
funding this and other programs,” Kerry said before traveling
to the next stop on his Middle East trip,  Saudi Arabia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  