-- Kerry Says U.S. to Give Egypt $250 Million Amid Mursi Pledges
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-03-03T21:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/kerry-says-u-s-to-give-egypt-250-million-amid-mursi-pledges.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry ,
during his first trip to Egypt in the role, said yesterday that
the U.S. government will release $250 million of a pledged $1
billion in aid to the country in response to commitments by
President Mohamed Mursi to make economic and political changes.  The announcement followed a meeting in Cairo yesterday with
Mursi and is part of “a good-faith effort to spur reform and
help the Egyptian people at this difficult time,” Kerry said in
a statement.  Kerry’s 24-hour visit was meant to help Egypt break out of
political and economic paralysis as it heads toward April
elections that the secular opposition plans to boycott. The
standoff has complicated  Egypt ’s attempts to enact changes
required for a $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan.  Kerry urged Egyptians to hold transparent elections and
respect rights and freedoms, particularly of women and religious
minorities.  “Over the past couple of days in Egypt, I have listened to
a broad cross-section of political leaders, business leaders and
representatives of non-governmental organizations,” Kerry said.
“The people I met shared their deep concern about the political
course of their country, the need to strengthen human rights
protections, justice and the rule of law, and their fundamental
anxiety about the economic future of Egypt,” he said.  Egyptian Exports  Kerry also announced a decision to expand a program that
allows Egyptian companies to export products from qualifying
zones to the U.S. tariff-free. The zones are mostly along the
border with  Israel  and the goods must include 10 percent Israeli
content, said a U.S. official traveling with Kerry who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  The official said that in Kerry’s talks, business leaders,
NGOs and government officials all recognized that Egypt’s
political crisis, its economic woes, and the challenge of
qualifying for the IMF loan were linked.  Kerry said he “encouraged President Mursi to implement the
homegrown reforms that will help his country secure an IMF
agreement” and that Mursi “said that he plans to move quickly
to do so.”  Kerry came to Egypt with the authority to release the first
$190 million in “budget support funds.” That money is part of
a $1 billion package of support pledged by President  Barack Obama  in May of 2011. The aid was split into two pieces. The
$190 million was part of an initial $450 million tranche that
had been held up by  U.S. Congress  out of concern over Egypt’s
political developments, according to the U.S. official.  The administration hopes to provide Egypt with the balance
of the $450 million and another tranche of $550 million if it
qualifies for the IMF loan, the official said.  Kerry also announced $60 million toward the start of the
Egyptian-American Enterprise Fund, which will fuel “key engines
of democratic change in Egypt” by assisting Egyptian
entrepreneurs and “its young people.” The fund will rise to
$300 million in coming years “as we work with our Congress on
funding this and other programs,” Kerry said.  Kerry is now on the next stop of his Middle East trip,
 Saudi Arabia . He travels to  Abu Dhabi  and Qatar before returning
to the U.S. later this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  