-- News Corp. Exits New Zealand’s Sky Network in Share Placing
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-03-04T01:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/news-corp-exits-new-zealand-s-sky-network-tv-in-share-placing.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  arranged to sell its 44
percent stake in  Sky Network Television Ltd. (SKT) ,  New Zealand ’s
largest pay-TV operator, in a share placement as the company
prepares to split its publishing and entertainment units.  News Ltd., a unit of  Rupert Murdoch ’s media company,
appointed Deutsche Bank AG and Craigs Investment Partners to
sell the holding, according to a statement from Sky Network
today. The shares are being sold at NZ$4.80 each, valuing the
stake at NZ$815 million ($671 million), according to a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the issue is private. Trading was halted in Sky  shares , which
closed at NZ$5.17 on March 1.  News Corp. plans to separate its television business from
the declining publishing division by the middle of this year.
Sky Network wasn’t regarded as a core asset and the stake’s sale
will help free up capital ahead of the split, said Alice Bennett, an analyst at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)   News Corp. is “just tidying up, so when the demerger
happens there’s less assets that they hold minority stakes in,”
Bennett said by telephone. The Sky Network sale is “making it a
cleaner and simpler company,” she said.  The shares will be sold to “a broad range of institutional
and retail investors,” News Ltd. said in the statement. It will
have no holding in Sky Network following the sale.  News Corp. shares rose 27 Australian cents, or 0.9 percent,
to A$28.79 in Sydney at 12:36 p.m.  Regional Director  “We and Sky have always enjoyed an excellent, arms-length
working relationship and we expect this to continue unaffected
by the sale,”  Chase Carey , president and chief operating
officer of News Corp., said in the statement. No changes to
content or technology agreements are expected, he added.  Michael Miller, New Zealand’s regional director of News
Ltd., will resign from Sky Network’s board, according to the
statement.  The sale, first reported by the Australian Financial
Review, is scheduled to close at 3 p.m. Sydney time today, the
person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  