-- Michael Thompson Gets Breakthrough PGA Tour Win at Honda Classic
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-03-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/thompson-wins-honda-classic-for-first-title-on-golf-s-pga-tour.html
Michael Thompson beat a field that
included 18 major golf champions at the Honda Classic to claim
his first title on the U.S. PGA Tour.  Thompson, a 27-year-old American, was one of only five
players to break par during yesterday’s final round, shooting a
1-under 69 to finish two strokes better than runner-up Geoff Ogilvy of  Australia . Thompson ended with a four-round total of
9-under-par 271 at the PGA National Resort’s Champion Course in
Palm Beach Gardens,  Florida .  Thompson, who missed three weekend cuts and tied for 78th
place in his four previous PGA Tour events this season, received
$1.03 million for his breakthrough win.  “The start of the year wasn’t great for me,” said
Thompson, who tied for second at last year’s U.S. Open at the
Olympic Club in San Francisco. “I wasn’t living up to those
expectations that I set on myself. I was having thoughts of,
‘I’m going to miss every cut this year. I’m not going to play
great at all; I’m going to lose my card and then what?’”  Tiger Woods, who finished runner-up to Rory McIlroy at last
year’s Honda Classic after shooting a career-best final-round
score of 62, shot a 4-over-par 74 yesterday to finish the
tournament at 4-over.  “I passed 62 somewhere on 12,” Woods, who tied for 37th
place, told reporters.  McIlroy, the world’s top-ranked golfer, quit the tournament
halfway through his second round, complaining of a painful
wisdom tooth. He was 7-over par.  ‘Competitive Guy’  Luke Guthrie closed with a 73 to finish third at 5-under
par, two shots better than David Lynn, Lucas Glover, Justin Rose, Keegan Bradley and Erik Compton. A two-time heart
transplant recipient, Compton shot a final-round 70 for his
career-best finish on the PGA Tour.  “It’s hard to put it all into words of how special it is,
but I’m such a competitive guy and that’s probably why I’m still
alive,” Compton, 33, said. “I’m proud of the way I played
regardless of the score, I played well enough to win this week.
Just got to move forward.”  Two tournaments are scheduled for March 7-10. The top
players will move about 83 miles (134 kilometers) south to the
Miami area for the $8.75 million Cadillac Championship, the
second World Golf Championships event of the season. Thompson
and Ogilvy, the 2006 U.S. Open champion, yesterday both earned
spots in the event. The $3.5 million Puerto Rico Open also takes
place at the Trump International Golf Club near San Juan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  