-- The Painful Truth About Prescriptions
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-03T23:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/painkiller-abuse-calls-for-closer-watch-on-prescriptions.html
Has American medicine gotten too
good at treating pain? The profession once took pain to be a
positive sign of healing. As recently as 50 years ago, even
patients recovering from surgery went without medicine to
relieve the ache and discomfort. Today, when patients complain
of pain, doctors listen and respond, and in many ways that’s a
good thing.  It has brought about a new problem, however: an  epidemic  of
overdose from opioid painkillers. The number of deaths -- 16,651
in 2010, according to  statistics  released last month -- has
tripled since 1999 and is now greater than fatalities from
heroin and cocaine combined. For every fatality, there are 35
emergency-room visits and 161 other reports of abuse or
dependence. Statistics show that the rise in abuse has tracked a
rise in doctors’ orders for the drugs.  To fight back, the federal government is expected to soon
tighten the rules for prescribing a popular subset of
painkillers, those containing the narcotic hydrocodone mixed
with acetaminophen (Vicodin is one of these) or with ibuprofen.
This would be a matter of moving hydrocodone combinations up a
notch from Schedule III to  Schedule II , the most-restricted
category of legal drugs, as  recommended  by an expert panel.
Then, no refills will be allowed; patients will be able to get
additional pills only by new prescription, either written or
prescribed through an electronic system.  Abuse Risk  This change may help a little. The real hope is that it
will prompt a wider shift in the medical world -- one that puts
the risks of addiction and abuse on par with a patients’ pain
and recognizes that painkillers can end up, intentionally or
not, in the hands of a patient’s children, spouse or friends.
Notably, more than  70 percent  of people who abuse prescription
pain relievers get them from family members or friends.  Information is key. One promising strategy to reduce
prescription drug abuse has been to give doctors, pharmacists
and police more information via electronic databases. For a
decade, Congress has helped states fund such  prescription drug
monitoring programs , and at this point almost every state either
has one or is planning one. Studies so far suggest they can
prevent “doctor shopping” by ensuring that each prescriber
knows if the patient has recently been to another one.  The monitoring programs haven’t been as effective as they
could be, however, because so many are voluntary and allow
doctors and pharmacists a lag time in reporting prescriptions.
In  Pennsylvania , for instance, the database can be accessed by
law enforcement agents only, not doctors or pharmacists. That
means an emergency room doctor treating an unfamiliar patient
can’t log into the system to find out if the person has already
been getting painkillers.  In addition to full access, monitoring programs need to
operate in real time, so that the ER doctor can know if the
patient filled a prescription as recently as an hour earlier.  A  good model  is one recently enacted by the New York
legislature. Beginning this year, doctors in the state will be
required to prescribe painkillers electronically, so that the
database is automatically updated in real time. Oklahoma’s
system also has real-time reporting, and other states should
change theirs accordingly.  New York  is leading the way, too, on another strategy to
fight painkiller abuse, which is to help people dispose of
unused pills before they end up in the hands of recreational
users. The state Department of Health has been directed to
establish secure disposal sites at police stations.  Drug makers can help by formulating painkillers to make
them more difficult to abuse. Crush-resistant capsules -- for
example, the new form of the painkiller Oxycontin -- deter abuse
by making it impossible to inject the drug. Also  promising  are
combinations of opiate agonists and antagonists, still in the
works, that would relieve pain but block the opioid effects when
taken in larger-than-prescribed quantities.  And as Medicare, Medicaid and the private insurance
industry experiment with new models of paying for health care,
they should devise ways to ensure that doctors are reimbursed
for spending the time it takes to treat patients’ pain properly
and to address signs of overuse and addiction.  No one wants doctors to stop caring about pain -- only to
ensure that the treatment doesn’t bring another kind of agony.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 