-- Payrolls in U.S. Probably Increased Amid Budget Impasse
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-03-03T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/payrolls-in-u-s-probably-increased-amid-budget-impasse.html
Payrolls probably grew in February,
showing U.S. employers were looking beyond the budget impasse in
 Washington  as sales improved, economists said before reports
this week.  Another 160,000 workers were hired last month after
employment rose by 157,000 in January, according to the median
forecast of 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a March 8
Labor Department report. The  jobless rate  held at 7.9 percent,
the survey showed.  More hiring is needed to ensure  consumer spending , which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, will withstand the
increase in the  payroll tax  and higher gasoline prices. Federal
Reserve policy makers remain unsatisfied with the pace at which
the number of  out-of-work  Americans, currently at 12.3 million,
has been whittled down, indicating they’ll keep adding stimulus
to spur growth.  “Things are slow and steady,” said  Julia Coronado , the
New York-based chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas,
whose payrolls forecast matched the Bloomberg survey median.
“The Fed right now is happy with the stability but unhappy with
the lack of upward momentum, so there’s nothing they see that
tells them to take their foot off the gas.”  Private payrolls, which don’t include government staff,
probably increased by 167,000 last month, after a 166,000 gain
in January, economists anticipate.  While the  unemployment rate  is down 0.4 percentage point in
the past year, it hasn’t fallen below 7.8 percent since 2008.  Fed’s Bernanke  “Consistent with the moderate pace of economic growth,
conditions in the labor market have been improving gradually,”
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers last week during his
semiannual testimony on monetary policy. Central bank officials
still want to see “substantial improvement in the outlook for
the labor” and will thus continue to buy securities and keep
 interest rates  low to stimulate the economy, he said.  Improvements in the labor market this year have so far
occurred in the face of fiscal constraints that began at the
start of 2013. Congress on Jan. 1 let the payroll tax that funds
 Social Security  revert to 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent, and
boosted the levy on top income earners.  While economists’ projections show the tax increases
weren’t enough to derail hiring last month, the economy will be
tested this year by $85 billion in across-the-board budget cuts,
known as sequestration, that began last week because Congress
couldn’t compromise on  deficit reduction .  Deloitte Hiring  Some companies are taking the budget battle in stride.
Accounting firm Deloitte LLP plans to increase its staff by
18,000 this year, according to Chief Executive Officer Joe Echevarria. Deloitte is hiring, even amid the political
uncertainty from Washington, to support long-term growth, he
said during a Feb. 27 interview on “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  “The private sector is the biggest hirer of people in this
country, not the federal government,” Echevarria said. “So
while its spending declines, the private sector can more than
step in if they’re incented to hire and grow.”  Investment from firms like Deloitte suggests the service
industry, the largest part of the world’s biggest economy, is
seeing steady demand even as tax increases and spending cuts
threaten to sap consumers of jobs and spending power. A
healthier housing market is also feeding businesses outside of
manufacturing.  A report on March 5 will show the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s index of U.S. non-manufacturing businesses, which
covers almost 90 percent of the economy, kept growing last
month, according to the Bloomberg median estimate. The index  was
little changed  at 55 in February after 55.2 the prior month.
Readings greater than 50 signal expansion.  Markets have also looked past the impending government
spending cuts. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 6.5
percent this year, better than the 4.1 percent gain for the MSCI
All Country  World Index. (MXWD)  The U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the
currency against six of America’s biggest trading partners, was
the highest since August.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  