-- Pena Nieto Party Opens Door to End Pemex Monopoly in Mexico
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-03-03T19:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/pena-nieto-party-opens-door-to-end-pemex-monopoly-in-mexico-1-.html
Mexico ’s ruling party took today the
first step to back President Enrique Pena Nieto’s plan to end a
75-year-old state monopoly on the oil industry.  The president’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party , known as
PRI, voted today at its national assembly to end its opposition
to constitutional changes that would ease state-owned  Petroleos
Mexicanos ’s grip on the oil industry. Pena Nieto hasn’t yet
presented a bill proposing the changes and would still have to
win the votes in Congress, where his coalition controls 241 of
500 seats in the lower house.  Oil output in the world’s ninth-largest producer of crude
has fallen for eight years as Pemex finances a third of the
government’s public budget. Opening the industry to foreign
investors would boost production while lifting economic growth
by as much as 2 percentage points each year, according to the
Energy Ministry.  “Our party is transforming itself in order to represent
and better serve all Mexicans,” Pena Nieto said at his party’s
assembly. “The PRI, without falling into complacency, has opted
to examine itself and redefine its position to adapt to the
nation’s new circumstances.”  The PRI also ended a ban that prohibited its members from
voting for taxes on food and medicine. The changes were approved
today at the party’s national assembly.  Tax on Food  Pena Nieto, 46, has pledged to open the oil industry to
more competition, to reduce the tax burden on Pemex and to
increase government revenue in a bid to boost economic growth.
His administration hasn’t yet disclosed details on the proposals
it said will be sent to Congress this year.  PRI lawmakers have been debating recently whether to tax
food and medicine, currently exempt from tariffs, to make up for
revenue shortfalls that may result from lower taxes on the oil
industry. The measure would be part of larger efforts to lift
 tax revenue  that accounts for 18.1 percent of gross domestic
product, the lowest ratio among 34 member countries of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, according
to data from the group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  