-- Philippines May Forego Global Bond Sale as It Boosts Local Debt
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-03-03T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/philippines-may-forego-global-bond-sale-as-it-boosts-local-debt.html
The Philippines may shun the global
 bond market  this year, breaking a run of sales that stretches
back a decade, as it boosts domestic borrowing amid record-low
 interest rates , Treasurer Rosalia de Leon said.  “We would like to fund more domestically and if 100
percent is possible, why not?” de Leon said in an interview in
the southern city of Samal, where she addressed a conference of
fund managers. The country plans to borrow 730 billion pesos
($17.9 billion) this year, and the intention is to raise at
least 80 percent of that from the domestic market, she said.  The $225 billion economy expanded at the fastest pace in
two years in 2012, helped by a record-low central bank  benchmark
borrowing  rate and inflation near the low-end of a 3 percent to
5 percent target. President  Benigno Aquino ’s administration is
reducing the  budget deficit , extending debt maturity and cutting
foreign-currency risks in pursuit of an investment-grade  credit
rating . That upgrade may come in the first half of this year,
central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said on Jan. 25.  “The domestic market can absorb the entire requirement,”
said Paul Joseph Garcia, who helps to manage the equivalent of
$19.2 billion at Manila-based BPI Asset Management Inc.
“There’s not enough supply of  government securities .”  The Philippines has been selling bonds to overseas
investors each year since at least 2002, and has no maturing
global bond this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It sold $1.5 billion of dollar bonds last year, less than
planned.  The country isn’t completely “closing its doors” to a
global sale this year, de Leon said on March 2. “If there’s a
need for us to reprice our credit after an upgrade, then we may
do so. But we also need to get BSP approval,” she said, using
the initials for the central bank, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas.  Capital Inflows  The Philippines is boosting domestic borrowing to help curb
capital inflows that have made the peso the best-performing
currency in  Asia  and among  emerging markets  in the past 12
months. BSP considers the inflows among its biggest challenges,
and Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima has said the government is
coordinating with the monetary authority on borrowing.  The Philippines has the highest junk rating at  Standard &
Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings. Managing
inflows would be more challenging after a shift to investment
grade, BSP Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said on Dec. 21.  When the government filed the 2013 budget for Congress’
approval in July, it had programmed a $3 billion global sale
this year. In November, de Leon said that they wanted to cut the
2013 overseas debt-sale plan by half, and a month later signaled
she may further cut this to $750 million to $1 billion.  Domestic Market  The Philippines raised 84 percent of its requirement last
year at home, higher than its target as it was more favorable to
borrow from the domestic market, de Leon said. This year, the
government may also repurchase foreign-denominated bonds for the
third year, and may exchange these for peso-denominated debt as
part of liability management that has lengthened maturity and
reduced foreign-currency risks, the treasurer said.  The  Philippines  bought $1.2 billion of its foreign-currency
bonds in November for almost $1.5 billion to cut annual interest
costs by $53 million, de Leon has said. In 2011, the Philippines
spent $1.7 billion buying back debt.  The nation held a debt swap in September 2010, exchanging
shorter-maturity dollar securities with longer-term bonds
denominated in the U.S. currency. In December that year, the
Philippines issued almost 200 billion pesos in new 10- and 25-
year notes in a swap. It had another exchange in July 2011.  ‘Compelling Advantages’  “We will continue to be opportunistic,” de Leon said.
“If there are compelling advantages for us to do similar
transactions, why not?”  The Philippines expects its debt to drop to 46.2 percent of
gross domestic product next year from 50.9 percent in 2011,
Budget Secretary Butch Abad said last week.  The yield on the 6.25 percent bond due November 2016 fell
to 3.27 percent on March 1, based on midday fixing prices at
Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp. That’s the lowest for a
four-year benchmark since Bloomberg started the data in May 2002.
The peso closed at 40.688 per dollar last week, 5.3 percent
higher against the dollar over the past 12 months.  “We are now revisiting the current methodology and in deep
consultations with our stakeholders in coming up with a new
fixing methodology that is more credible and transparent,” de
Leon told the Fund Managers Association of the Philippines
during the conference in Samal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  