-- Police Killings Adding to Outrage Over Pistorius Errors
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-03-04T09:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/police-killings-added-to-pistorious-errors-outrage-south-africa.html
The grainy video at first shows a
struggle between two South African policemen and a man in a red
shirt. Then after a few seconds, something happens that appears
in no training manual: The man is tied by his hands to the back
of a police van and it drives off, dragging him on the ground in
front of a screaming crowd.  The treatment of taxi driver Mido Macia, 27, who later died
of his injuries, has turned  South Africa ’s police from accuser
into accused. A court hearing for eight officers arrested on
murder charges related to the incident in Daveyton on
Johannesburg’s eastern outskirts was postponed until March 8.  “The cops are treating us very badly,” Frieda Nuku, a
vegetable trader and friend of Macia’s, said by phone from
Daveyton on March 2. “They are a law unto themselves. Mido was
a good guy. He did me a lot of favors.”  The incident, footage of which was obtained by
Johannesburg’s Daily Sun newspaper, is the latest in a
succession of high-profile cases that have implicated officers
in homicide and stoked public outrage. Just a week earlier, the
lead investigator in the murder trial of  Oscar Pistorius , the
double amputee track star who’s accused of killing his
girlfriend, was replaced after it emerged that he faced seven
attempted murder charges for allegedly firing at a minibus.  The judge in the Pistorius bail hearing said the
investigator, Hilton Botha, made a series of errors, including
possibly contaminating the crime scene, not checking for other
mobile phones owned by Pistorius and misidentifying substances
found at his home as testosterone.  Marikana Shootings  In August last year, police killed 34 protesters, most of
them armed with wooden sticks and machetes, at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s
Marikana platinum mine. The Independent Police Investigative
Directorate probed 932 deaths in police custody in the year
through March 2012, according to the oversight body’s latest
annual report.  “There is a lack of professionalism and training in the
police force,” Kerwin Lebone, a security researcher at the
Institute for Race Relations in Johannesburg, said in a March 1
phone interview. “They don’t follow the ethos of what South
African police are supposed to deliver to the public at large.
It’s been a real let-down and a disappointment to the public.”  Murder Rate  The poor state of policing in  Africa ’s largest economy is
reflected in the crime statistics. About 43 homicides are
committed on average each day. While the  murder rate  has fallen
to 30.9 per 100,000 people from 67.9 in 1995 when national
statistics were compiled for the first time, it is more than six
times that of the U.S.  A 2011 study by the  United Nations Office on Drugs and
Crime  found South Africa had the world’s 13th-highest murder
rate. Honduras topped the list with 82.1 murders per 100,000
people.  The cost of insuring against a debt default for five years
climbed to an eight-month high of 178 basis points last month,
indicating a deterioration in risk perception. Credit default
swaps on the debt have increased 40 basis points since the
Marikana killing on Aug. 16. The rand has slumped 6.7 percent
against the dollar this year, the third-worst performer of 16
major currencies monitored by Bloomberg after the pound and the
yen. It depreciated 0.1 percent to 9.0708 per dollar by 11:29
a.m. in Johannesburg.  Poor Leadership  The police force’s failings are largely due to poor
leadership, according to Chandre Gould, a researcher at the
Pretoria-based Institute for Security tudies.  Police commissioners are appointed for political reasons,
“rather than on their experience of policing, their knowledge
of policing and their ability to lead a very large and complex
organization,” she said by phone from the southern town of
George on Feb. 25.  Riah Phiyega, the current police chief, served as the head
of a government commission reviewing the role of state companies
and had no policing experience before her appointment her
appointment by President  Jacob Zuma  in June.  Her predecessor Bheki Cele, was fired in June last year,
after a board of inquiry found that he was unfit for office and
was guilty of unlawful conduct by agreeing to lease offices
costing more than three times the market rate.  Cele, who had urged officers to “shoot to kill” when
facing armed criminals, took over from  Jackie Selebi , who was
sentenced to 15 years in prison for corruption in 2010.  Improved Policing  The government says it’s made strides in improving policing
and will act against rogue officers. It condemned Marcia’s
killing and ordered an investigation.  “All police officers have a duty to fight crime and those
who are not worthy of wearing our badge and uniform, must know
that they have no place within South African Police Service,”
State Security Minister Siyabonga Cwele said in an e-mailed
statement. “Police officers who abuse their authorities must
know that they will not succeed in their criminal conduct.”  Some perpetrators of police brutality have been brought to
justice.  Seven policemen are on trial for shooting and beating
protester Andries Tatane during a demonstration in Ficksburg in
the central Free State province in April 2011. Four others who
set dogs on illegal immigrants during a training session were
jailed in November of that year. Both incidents were captured on
camera.  Nuku wants Macia’s killers to also be held accountable. The
Magistrate’s Court in Benoni, east of Johannesburg, today ruled
that the accused can’t be identified until an identity parade is
held.  About 50 people claiming to be residents from Daveyton,
demonstrated peacefully outside the court today. Policemen
formed a line between the protesters and the court entrance.  “What they did was illegal,” she said. “I want them to
spend a long time in jail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  