-- Putin Meets Yanukovych on Gas After Pipe Lease Offer
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-03-04T17:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/putin-to-meet-yanukovych-on-gas-after-pipe-lease-offer.html
President  Vladimir Putin  met his
Ukrainian counterpart  Viktor Yanukovych  today as Russia’s
smaller neighbor seeks to trim the price it pays  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  for
fuel supplies by leasing out its natural gas pipelines.  “Today we should make progress,” Yanukovych said at the
start of the talks in Zavidovo, Russia. Dmitry Peskov, a
spokesman for Putin, later said that discussions were
continuing.  Ukraine plans to lease the network of pipes that ships
Russian gas to the European Union to guarantee stable transit
and fund maintenance, Yanukovych said March 1. The move is aimed
at securing a lower price for gas imports from Russia, which is
prepared to pay to upgrade Ukraine’s pipelines, he said.  “We continue to expect a material price cut for Ukraine to
be agreed to in the course of this year,” Ron Smith and
 Alexander Bespalov , analysts at Citigroup Inc. in Moscow, said
in a note today. Gazprom “would keep Ukraine as a large and
still lucrative client -- on par with  Germany  even after the
cuts -- but remove one of the key uncertainties that have
surrounded Gazprom in recent years.”  Ukraine, which is seeking an international bailout as its
economy grapples with a recession, depends on Russia for more
than 60 percent of its gas needs and is a key transit route for
Gazprom. The existing gas contract with Russia, signed in 2009
by jailed former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko , is “a noose”
around the country’s neck, according to Yanukovych.  Renegotiate Accord  Ukraine has been seeking to renegotiate its Russian gas
accord, which it says imposes the highest prices in Europe, for
more than a year as the  International Monetary Fund  urges lower
energy subsidies as a condition for aid.  Ukraine’s government bonds due 2022 rebounded after falling
earlier today for the first time since Feb. 22, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows. Bonds rose, pushing yields down to 7.091
percent, the lowest level since they started trading on Nov. 23.  “We should have a review of the gas contract this year,”
Ukrainian Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said on private TV
channel Inter on March 1. “When we review gas prices with
Russia, we will start talks with the IMF and recalculate the
 budget deficit ,” he said, adding that terms of the Washington-
based lender for aid may change by then.  In a sign of the deadlock, Gazprom sent state-run NAK
Naftogaz Ukrainy a $7 billion bill in January for failing to
import its contractual amount of gas last year. Naftogaz says it
notified the Moscow-based exporter in advance that it would buy
less fuel.  Continue Working  “Taking into consideration disagreements over certain
issues in gas cooperation such as price formation and volumes
imported by Ukraine, the sides will continue working on
contracts,” Putin’s press office said in e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Ukraine initially wanted to establish a group with  Russia 
and the 27-member EU to manage its pipelines, whose sale is
prohibited by Ukrainian law. Putin said in December that Ukraine
made “a very big strategic mistake” by not agreeing to lease
the network to Russia and European companies.  More recently, Ukraine sought ways of working with a
Russian-led customs union. While Russia has said joining would
lead to reduced gas prices, full membership would torpedo plans
to sign an EU Association Agreement and free-trade pact.  “Today, we’re looking for a model of cooperation between
Ukraine and the customs union,” said Yanukovych, who postponed
a December visit to Moscow to further explore working with the
union. “From an economic point of view, it’s very interesting
for us to integrate with the customs union.”  Supply Disruptions  Conflicts between the two countries over gas have resulted
in supply disruptions to  Europe  at least twice since 2006.
They’ve since agreed to concessions such as a 2010 deal that
gave Ukraine a discount of $100 per thousand cubic meters of
fuel in return for an extension of the Russian navy’s lease of a
Black Sea port.  Gazprom accused Ukraine of siphoning off gas from transit
during disputes in 2006 and 2009, a charge the country denied.
The conflicts spurred Gazprom to build links bypassing transit
states, such as the undersea  Nord Stream  and South Stream
pipelines, while questioning the viability of Ukraine’s network.  “Gazprom is open for expanding constructive cooperation
with Ukraine in the gas sector and will continue discussions of
all available opportunities in this sphere,”  Sergei Kupriyanov ,
a spokesman for the company, said March 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  