-- Russia’s Dixy to Spend $1.6 Billion Doubling Store Numbers
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-03-04T09:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/russia-s-dixy-plans-to-spend-1-6-billion-doubling-store-numbers.html
OAO Dixy Group,  Russia ’s third-
largest food retailer, plans to spend as much as 50 billion
rubles ($1.6 billion) over three years doubling its store
numbers to capitalize on anticipated growth in demand.  Dixy has “vast room to grow,” Chief Executive Officer
Ilya Yakubson said in an interview at the company’s Moscow
headquarters. The retailer, controlled by Russian billionaire
 Igor Kesaev , is targeting 3,000 stores by the end of 2015,
compared with almost 1,500 now, as it seeks to double annual
revenue to about $10 billion, he said.  “In Russia, the top five retailers account for 17 percent
of the market, it’s peanuts,” Yakubson said. In many European
countries, that proportion is 50 percent, he said.  Russia’s food retail market rose 9 percent last year to the
equivalent of $323 billion, according to the Federal Statistics
Service, with the major retail chains growing even faster. The
market will continue to grow at least 7 percent a year through
2016, according to Sberbank Investment Research.  Russia’s retail market will continue to consolidate as
retail chains replace independent stores, markets and kiosks,
according to the executive, who said Dixy will fund expansion
with its own resources and debt.  Over the next two years, the retailer will focus on
developing “neighborhood stores,” small outlets with an
average selling space of about 275 square meters, Yakubson said.
From late 2014 or 2015, it will accelerate the roll out of
supermarkets under the Megamart brand, he said.  Profit Margins  Dixy is seeking to increase profit margins this year after
costs associated with the 2011 acquisition of competitor
Victoria Group weighed on profitability last year, the CEO said.  The retailer is targeting a margin on earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 7 percent to 8
percent in the next three years, he said. The margin was 5.6
percent in the third quarter.  Dixy may consider selling shares as its market value grows
to help boost liquidity and reduce debt, Yakubson said,
declining to elaborate on timing. Dixy rose 0.4 percent to
444.23 rubles per share at 12:56 p.m in Moscow, giving the
company a market value of 55 billion rubles. The stock has risen
10 percent this year.  Russia’s industry leader, billionaire Sergey Galitskiy’s
OAO Magnit, had an Ebitda margin of 10.6 percent last year.  While Yakubson’s store opening target looks achievable, the
goal for profitability growth seems too optimistic given the
intensity of competition, said Maria Kolbina, analyst at Moscow-
based VTB Capital.  Dixy’s sales growth of 21 percent last year trailed
Magnit’s 34 percent and  O’Key Group SA (OKEY) ’s 26 percent.  To differentiate from competitors, Dixy is following the
example of Polish retailer  Biedronka (JMT)  and Spain’s Mercadona SA by
adding own-label products such as Bonduelle peas, the CEO said.  The Dixy CEO said January’s ban on selling beer in kiosks
hasn’t led to any meaningful increase in store sales. Food
retailers are now lobbying to sell over-the-counter drugs in
their stores, challenging pharmacies, Yakubson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  