-- Sperling Says `Absolutist’ Republicans Blocking Budget Progress
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-03T14:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/sperling-says-absolutist-republicans-blocking-budget-progress.html
Intractable Republican lawmakers
have blocked progress in replacing recent automatic U.S.  federal
budget  cuts with a more palatable option, said National Economic
Council Director  Gene Sperling .  “What’s keeping us from working together is the
Republicans taking this absolutist position,” said Sperling,
President  Barack Obama ’s top economic adviser, on CNN’s “ State
of the Union ” today, saying Republicans won’t budge on raising
revenues to reduce the deficit. “This president is doing
everything he can.”  Congress mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board
spending cuts spread over nine years as part of a 2011 deal to
increase the U.S. debt limit. Though the cuts were designed to
be so onerous that Congress and the president wouldn’t let them
occur, a congressional impasse allowed the onset March 1 of the
automatic cuts set to total $85 billion this year.  Sperling said Obama worked the phones yesterday, trying to
locate a “coalition of the willing” to negotiate the next
steps. The he impact of the “very harsh cuts” will become more
apparent over time, Sperling said.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” that Obama achieved tax increases this
year and should now deal with spending.  “When is the president going to address the spending side
of this?” he said, pointing to what he said is a need for
entitlement reform. “I’ve watched leaders from both parties
kick this can down the road.” He said, “We’re out of road to
kick the can down.”  Boehner said the White House and Senate Democrats have no
plan for replacing the current cuts.  “We have this sequester because the president demanded it
and because Senate Democrats have refused to act,” Boehner
said.  Sperling said on ABC’s “This Week” that top business
leaders contend “this type of uncertainty and dysfunction in
 Washington  is forcing them to hold back projects that they would
be doing that would be creating jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  