-- Stalinist Parking Garage No Place to Keep U.S. Safe
-- B y   T i m   W e i n e r
-- 2013-03-03T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/stalinist-parking-garage-no-place-to-keep-u-s-safe.html
The J. Edgar Hoover Building in
 Washington  is a threat to national security. It’s time to tear
it down.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation’s  headquarters  has been
falling apart for years. At this point its decrepitude imperils
the bureau’s biggest mission: to prevent another Sept. 11 attack.  If you’ve ever been in Washington, you know the place. You
can’t miss it. It’s that pile of concrete defacing Pennsylvania
Avenue, halfway between the White House and the Capitol, that
looks like a Stalinist parking garage, an architectural crime
against humanity. It’s a public disgrace.  The building’s ugliness is a perfect match for its shoddy
construction. Rainwater pours into the building, and its thick
skin is cracking. Passers-by run the risk of being brained by a
falling chunk of FBI facade.  On the inside, things are worse. Never mind that the
electrical systems, the air ducts and the elevators need $80
million worth of repairs. The Hoover building fails to meet
basic security criteria established for federal buildings three
years ago.  These failures are, of course, classified. But they are no
secret: The FBI headquarters can’t support its fraying patchwork
of computer systems or secure its cubicles from cyberspies.  What’s more, the building is as crowded as a rush-hour
subway -- and as incompatible to candid conversations among
agents. FBI counterterrorism specialists need to be able to
speak with FBI intelligence analysts face-to-face, in private.
But the Hoover building’s space constraints prevent them from
sitting down together in one place.  Bad Business  Instead, they are closed behind an endless series of doors,
unable to adequately collaborate. That might have been fine when
Hoover ruled as an absolute monarch, hurling commands from on
high. It’s a bad business in this day and age, when intelligence
and analysis need to flow up the chain of command.  The place already was overflowing on the day its present
director, Robert Mueller, took office on Sept. 4, 2001. Back
then the FBI had 9,700 people assigned to headquarters. Today it
has  17,300 . Half of them can’t fit into the building. After
Sept. 11, 200,000 square feet of basement, storage and cafeteria
space were converted to offices. When that ran out, FBI
administrators started renting space in suburban shopping malls
and corporate parks. Rent for these remote offices now exceeds
$3 million a week.  More than 8,000 FBI headquarters personnel are housed at
more than 40 annexes inside and outside Washington. Landlords
and tenants in at least nine of these places refuse to operate
under the government’s security constraints. So the offices are
useless for anything resembling counterterrorism.  On the contrary, if you want to see what a palace built
with tax dollars looks like, go to the Central Intelligence
Agency’s headquarters complex. (No, they don’t have guided
tours; neither does the FBI since al-Qaeda struck.) The main
building, dating from President Dwight D. Eisenhower’s
administration, has a gleaming marble lobby and snazzy, Mad Men-
style executive suites on the seventh floor. The newer
buildings, added under Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W.
Bush, are state-of-the-art -- good-looking and girded against
hackers, from the wires to the windows.  So why does the FBI have to work in a Brutalist hellhole?
It’s no way to run an intelligence service.  Our elected representatives in Congress loathe spending
money on things such as diplomatic security. Then they scream
when an ambassador is killed for want of armed guards. Though a
new base for the FBI would surely cost a billion dollars and
take a decade to build, the FBI deserves better, and so do we.  Fitting Legacy  A shovel in the earth would be a fitting way to salute
Mueller when he retires in September after 12 years. Yes, his
FBI has from time to time erred on the side of excess -- but far
less often than Hoover’s did. Mueller’s agents blew the whistle
on the CIA’s secret prisons. And Mueller himself confronted
President George W. Bush in the White House over his
unconstitutional eavesdropping on Americans.  Mueller is the first director -- ever -- who has struck
something approaching a proper balance between national security
and civil liberties. He has often said what he doesn’t want when
he retires is a gold medal and a speech saying:
“Congratulations, you won the war on terror -- but we lost our
civil liberties.”  I’m not saying a new headquarters should be dedicated to
Mueller. We all know the pitfalls of the Edifice Complex -- just
look at the Hoover building. We simply owe the FBI’s agents a
decent place to work.  Even as a replacement is constructed, the old place will
need some work to make it last through the coming decade. As a
tribute to the preservation of civil liberties in a time of
continued danger, we could start by scraping Hoover’s name off
the facade.  (Tim Weiner, a former reporter for the  New York  Times, has
won the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Award for writing
on national security. He is the author, most recently, of
“ Enemies: A History of the FBI .” The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Tim Weiner at  tiwein@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 