-- Suning 2-Month Sales Post Fast Growth, Chairman Zhang Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-04T03:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/suning-jan-feb-sales-post-fast-growth-billionaire-zhang-says.html
Suning Appliance Co. (002024) , China’s
biggest electronics retailer, posted fast growth in sales in the
first two months of the year amid signs of improving consumer
demand, Chairman Zhang Jindong said.  “China’s new government will put in place measures to
bolster economic growth,” Zhang said in an interview outside
the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference in
Beijing yesterday. “We are confident about the future.” He
didn’t specify how much sales increased in January and February.  Sales are gaining following a 44 percent  profit drop  at
Suning last year. The retailer, based in the eastern province of
Jiangsu, is tapping online shoppers and adding new products to
diversify after earnings were hurt by the weakest expansion in
China’s economy in 13 years and price battles with rivals  Gome
Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493)  and 360buy Jingdong Inc.  China can’t merely focus on putting in policies to
stimulate domestic demand, Zhang said. The country also needs to
introduce measures to bolster related industries such as
logistics and e-commerce, he said.  The company, which is changing its name to Suning Commerce
Group Co., will invest 22 billion  yuan  ($3.5 billion) in
logistics by the end of 2015 to move toward a model similar to
U.S. retailers  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Amazon.com Inc. The
retailer is also looking to expand after-sales services and
financing to customers.  Zhang is the largest shareholder in Suning, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Suning shares fell 2.4 percent as of
11:11 a.m. in Shenzhen trading, compared with a 3.3 percent
slump in the CSI 300 Index. The stock has retreated 3.9 percent
in 2013, extending three years of losses.  China’s economy  expanded 7.9 percent in the final three
months of 2012 from a year earlier, the first pickup in eight
quarters. Growth may accelerate to 8.2 percent in the three
months through March, according to the median estimate of 23
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  