-- Swiss Voters Approve Limits on ‘Fat Cat’ Executive Pay
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-03-03T15:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-03/swiss-voters-set-limits-on-ceo-paychecks-sf1-projections.html
Swiss voters approved some of the
world’s toughest limits on executives’ pay in a referendum, a
move critics say could make Switzerland less attractive to
multinational corporations.  The initiative against “fat cats,” proposed by Thomas Minder, head of a herbal toothpaste company, was backed by 67.9
percent of the voters today, the government  said  on its website
today. The turnout was 46 percent. Polls, including one by
gfs.bern, had signaled that outcome as probable.  The proposal gives shareholders an annual ballot on
managers’ pay. It eliminates sign-on bonuses, as well as
severance packages and extra incentives for completing merger
transactions. The initiative also includes rules punishing
executives who violate the terms with as long as three years in
jail.  “I’m glad the long battle is over,” Minder, who started
the campaign in 2006, told Swiss television. “It’s a powerful
sign, this proportion above 60 percent.”  At least five of  Europe ’s 20 highest-paid chief executive
officers work for Swiss companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Among them are the Credit Suisse Group AG CEO Brady Dougan,  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) ’s Joe Hogan and Joe Jimenez of  Novartis AG. (NOVN) 
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s chief Severin Schwan and  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s  Paul Bulcke  are also in the top tier.  Vasella Payoff  The initiative got a boost when news broke last month that
Novartis was planning to pay outgoing chairman Daniel Vasella as
much as $78 million to prevent him from potentially working for
rival companies. In response to public ire, Europe’s biggest
drugmaker scrapped the accord.  Thanks to low taxes and limited bureaucracy, big
corporations, including offshore drilling contractor  Transocean
Ltd. (RIG)  and oilfield service company  Weatherford International
Ltd. (WFT) , choose Switzerland as their base.  How much executives take home was called into question in
Switzerland after the country’s biggest bank,  UBS AG (UBSN) , had to be
bailed out during the financial crisis, while in 2010  Credit
Suisse (CSGN)  CEO Dougan received 71 million francs ($76 million) of
shares. That compares with a gross average Swiss monthly wage of
$7,800 for 2011, according to UN  statistics.   ‘Negative Signal’  The result is a “negative signal for Switzerland as a
place for doing business,” Economiesuisse, a business lobby
which had campaigned against the proposal, said in a statement
today. Nestle CEO Bulcke said on Feb. 15 Minder’s plan would
make Switzerland less attractive to corporations and managers.  The Swiss are not alone in their desire to rein in
executive pay in the wake of the financial crisis. Members of
the European Parliament last week struck a deal to ban bonuses
that are more than twice bankers’ fixed pay if starting Jan. 1,
if ratified by European Union countries and the full parliament.  The nationality of Switzerland’s top executives -- Dougan,
Hogan and Jimenez are American, while Schwan is Austrian and
Bulcke comes from  Belgium  -- has also fed into the issue, with
nurses, hotel staff and construction workers complaining they
face competition from immigrants willing to do their jobs for
lower pay.  Minder, who blames highly-paid executives for the financial
crisis, collected more than 100,000 signatures, triggering
today’s referendum. He says manager payouts highlight the gap
between corporate chiefs and the average wage earner.  Tricky Implementation  In theory, the initiative takes immediate effect, though
the government could need time to issue ordinances and adapt
national law. There is no set time frame for it to do so. The
2010 initiative to expel foreigners convicted of serious crimes
is still before parliament, where politicians disagree about how
to reconcile it with Switzerland’s obligations under
international law.  In the case of Minder’s proposal, lawmakers also disagree:
Social Democrats support the plan while the pro-business Free
Democrats oppose it.  “The concrete implementation of Minder’s initiative should
take years,” said Pascal Gentinetta, director of
Economiesuisse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  