-- A Prescription to End Painkiller Abuse
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-25T19:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/a-prescription-to-end-painkiller-abuse.html
In proposing to  strengthen  the rules
on prescribing opioid painkillers, the  Food and Drug
Administration  is certainly making the right call. Tighter
restrictions are needed to stem the fast-growing crisis of
addiction and overdose from drugs containing the narcotic
hydrocodone.  By limiting prescriptions to a three-month supply and not
allowing doctors to phone them in, the new rules should help
lower the number of pills in circulation that end up being taken
recreationally -- often by a patient’s family members or
friends.  These drugs are too big a problem, however, to be solved by
this one change. In 2010, the U.S. had  16,651 fatal overdoses 
from opioid painkillers, triple the number in 1990 and
accounting for three-fourths of all drug overdose deaths. More
than  12 million  Americans reported abusing the drugs that year.  What’s also needed is better monitoring of all
prescriptions through electronic databases, so that doctors and
pharmacists can tell whether a patient is looking to fill
prescriptions for hydrocodone-combination drugs from more than
one doctor. Almost every state has a prescription-drug database,
but many are voluntary, or they don’t require that pharmacists
update them instantly -- allowing patients to submit multiple
prescriptions before anyone sees the problem. Some states allow
only police to monitor the databases, so a doctor can’t know
whether a new patient has painkillers already.  New York  state has a strong model: It requires doctors to
check the database before issuing any new prescription, and it
has widened access to its Internet System for Tracking Over-Prescribing, or  I-STOP,  allowing doctors’ front-office staff to
do searches. New York has also established a network of drop
boxes at sheriff’s offices and police stations where people can
dispose of unused pills before they end up in the hands of
recreational users.  No one wants to ban prescription painkillers; they’re too
essential to treating people’s real physical pain. Well-designed
databases help doctors make the best use of these drugs without
also enabling addiction and abuse.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 