-- Abbott MitraClip Wins U.S. Approval for Leaky Heart Valve
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-25T20:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/abbott-mitraclip-wins-u-s-approval-for-leaky-heart-valve.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  won U.S.
regulatory approval for its MitraClip, a clamp for leaky heart
valves that offers a less-invasive option to open-chest surgery.  The  Food and Drug Administration  clearance covers patients
with significant degenerative disease, a subset of the 4 million
Americans who suffer from mitral valve regurgitation, according
to a company statement. The condition stems from a leaky valve
that allows blood to flow backward in the heart, a progressive
disease that damages the cardiac muscle and can cause stroke and
heart failure.  The approval followed a mixed review from an FDA advisory
panel in March. Neither analysts nor the Abbott Park, Illinois-based company factored MitraClip sales into their earnings
estimates, said  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at Well Fargo in New
York, in a Sept. 16 note to clients. He estimates the device
will generate U.S. sales of less than $200 million a year for
the limited patient population approved to get it.  “We estimate on the high side that there are 300,000 to
350,000 patients in the prohibitive risk for surgery category
here in the United States,” said John Capek, Abbott’s head of
medical devices. “Our target is probably 1/10th of that, or
20,000 to 30,000 patients. It will take awhile for the product
to penetrate the market, but it’s not a small number.”  Abbott shares rose less than 1 percent to $37.25 at the
close New York. The stock has gained 19 percent this year.  Abbott has two additional studies under way, the Coapt
trial in the U.S. and the Reshape-HF study in Europe, that may
be used to broaden the approval if the results are positive,
Capek said in a telephone interview. The company worked with FDA
staff members to determine which patients were most probable to
benefit from the device based on the information available.  ‘Prohibitive Risk’  Studies showed surgery is better at reducing symptoms from
leaky valves while patients getting the MitraClip were three
times less likely to die or suffer other complications. The
device is inserted into the heart through a catheter. It clamps
the two flapping leaflets of the valve closed in the middle like
a clothespin, preventing a backwash of blood. The approach
allows blood to flow out around either side of the device.  The approval covers patients with a “prohibitive risk”
from conventional open heart surgery to repair the valve, as
documented by a team of heart doctors. There are few alternative
treatments now available for those patients and more than one-quarter of them die from the disease within a year, Capek said.  Demand for the device has increased by about 50 percent in
the past year in Europe, where it now generates about $30
million a quarter, Capek said. More studies that examine the
device’s ability to reduce hospitalization rates and improve
patient’s function may bolster its use further, he said.  “Often times these first-of-a-kind products do take longer
than average,” Capek said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  