-- AbbVie Profit Beats Estimates as Sales of Humira Increase
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-25T20:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/abbvie-profit-beats-estimates-as-sales-of-humira-increase.html
AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , the drugmaker that
split from  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  in January, reported third-quarter earnings that beat  analysts’ estimates  as sales of its
top drug Humira increased. The company raised the bottom end of
its full-year forecast.  Earnings excluding one-time items of 82 cents a share beat
by 4 cents the average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Full-year  earnings  excluding certain items are
expected to be $3.11 to $3.13 a share, the North Chicago,
Illinois-based company said today in a statement.  AbbVie generates more than half its revenue from Humira,
the rheumatoid arthritis injection that sold $9.27 billion in
2012. Humira insulates the company from the patent losses that
have hurt other drugmakers because the complex biotechnology
drug won’t face the same competition from inexpensive copycats
as traditional small-molecule pills.  The drug’s marketing power also gives AbbVie time to
develop a stronger group of experimental medicines, said  Jami Rubin , an analyst with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “We see AbbVie
as more of a biotech company with a majority of sales coming
from biologics and a strong pipeline of assets to sustain
growth,” Rubin said in a note to clients this month.  AbbVie rose 2.9 percent to $49.30 at 4 p.m.  New York  time.
The shares have  gained 44 percent  this year.  The drugmaker has focused on licensing early stage drugs
that could pay off later this decade, when competition to Humira
may increase, Rubin said. AbbVie has yet to hire a new head of
research and development, after head of R&D John Leonard
announced his retirement in May.  Net income fell to $964 million, or 60 cents a share, from
$1.59 billion, or $1.01, a year earlier, AbbVie said. Revenue
rose to $4.66 billion from $4.51 billion a year earlier, more
than the $4.52 billion average of eight analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of Humira  increased 19 percent to
$2.77 billion from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  