-- African Teams Should Replace Europe at World Cup, Blatter Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-10-25T11:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/african-teams-should-replace-europe-at-world-cup-blatter-says.html
African and Asian countries should
take more spots at the World Cup as European and South American
teams have too many berths, the head of soccer’s governing body
said.  European and South American nations account for 18 or 19 of
the 32 qualifying spots for the World Cup, and Sepp Blatter, in
a column in a new magazine, The FIFA Weekly, said that’s not
fair to other regions.  “ Africa , the confederation with the most member
associations (54), is woefully under-represented at the World
Cup with just five places,” the FIFA president wrote. “As long
as this remains the case, African sides may never win an
intercontinental trophy, regardless of progress on the playing
side.”  Blatter, who has been FIFA president since 1998, said the
developing nations deserve “an equal chance” to qualify for
the sport to continue to expand. South Korea was the last team
outside Europe or South America to reach a semifinal, when it
hosted the event in 2002.  The African and Asian regions account for 100 FIFA member
organizations. Europe and South America are made up of 63 teams,
and shouldn’t get more spots than other areas, he said.  “This flawed state of affairs must be rectified,” he
wrote in the weekly magazine published by FIFA.  Brazil  will host the World Cup next year, and the last one
was held in South Africa. Blatter has pushed to move the
tournament to new hosts, with Russia and Qatar scheduled to hold
the event.  The expansion has brought challenges and criticism, with
the awarding of the 2022 event to Qatar raising questions about
the bidding process. The event in the Gulf nation may be moved
from its traditional summer schedule to the winter to avoid
temperatures of as high as 50 degrees Centigrade (122 degrees
Fahrenheit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bob Bensch at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net  