-- Thai Central Bank Cuts Growth Forecast, Rules Out More Stimulus
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-10-25T09:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/thai-central-bank-cuts-growth-forecast-rules-out-more-stimulus.html
The Bank of  Thailand  said risks to
financial stability, including high levels of  household debt ,
have reduced the scope for further monetary easing, even as it
cut its growth forecast for the second time this year.  The central bank pared its estimate for gross domestic
product growth this year to 3.7 percent, compared with a July
projection of 4 percent, and said exports may expand 1 percent,
down from an earlier forecast of 4 percent.  Thailand kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a
third meeting on Oct. 16, and “there is no need to ease
monetary policy further because there are still risks to
financial stability,” Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said today at a briefing in Bangkok.  A slowdown in private consumption and exports, and delays
in  government spending  on infrastructure will remain a drag in
the second half, Paiboon said. The economy is expected to
stabilize, and may recover by early next year, he said.  The plan to keep borrowing costs on hold clashes with the
view of Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong, who earlier this
month said the benchmark  interest rate  is “too high.” The
economy unexpectedly contracted 0.3 percent in the three months
through June from the previous quarter, when it shrank by 1.7
percent, official data showed.  “Even as the economy recovers from a recession, we see
very limited risk of the BoT tightening policy, as it will want
to ensure that the recovery is entrenched,”  Rahul Bajoria , a
Singapore-based economist at Barclays Plc, said in a note.
“Further measures to restrict household lending are unlikely,
but credit disbursement may only start picking up toward the end
of 2013 or in early 2014, which would allow the central bank to
maintain an accommodative monetary policy stance.”  The central bank today said the current account is forecast
to post a deficit of $6.8 billion this year, compared with a
$1.7 billion surplus predicted earlier.  Thai  exports  slumped 7.1 percent in September, according to
a separate report today from the commerce ministry. That
compared with the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey for a
0.5 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  