-- Taiwan Five-Year Bonds Advance in Week on Fed Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-10-25T08:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/taiwan-five-year-bonds-advance-in-week-on-fed-stimulus-optimism.html
Taiwan’s five-year bonds gained for
a second week as U.S. economic data that missed estimates stoked
bets the  Federal Reserve  will delay cutting stimulus that’s
buoyed  emerging markets .  Employers in the world’s largest economy added fewer jobs
than estimated last month as the nation headed into a 16-day
government shutdown, while the trade deficit was little changed
in August as imports and exports stalled. Taiwan sold NT$30
billion ($1 billion) of 20-year debt at 2.15 percent this week.
The auction’s bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand, was 1.65,
this year’s highest for similar-maturity sovereign notes.  “The U.S. government shutdown is expected to weigh on
economic data this month and next, which may delay the start of
the Fed tapering till March next year,” said Star Lai, a fixed-income trader at KGI Securities Co. in Taipei. “The bid-to-cover ratio at the 20-year bond auction was high by this year’s
standards, which shows demand is still there.”  The yield on the most-traded 1.25 percent government notes
due October 2018 fell two basis points from a week ago to 1.0899
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market. The rate was
little changed today.  Global funds bought $249 million more local equities than
they sold this week, taking net purchases for the year to $7.9
billion, exchange data show. Foreign investors were net sellers
of domestic stocks for the first time in 17 days today as the
Taiex  index  dropped the most in two weeks.  Taiwan  will report
third-quarter gross domestic product growth on Oct. 31.  Currency Market  Taiwan’s dollar was little changed this week at NT$29.455
against the greenback after advancing for eight straight weeks,
prices from Taipei Forex Inc. show.  The currency weakened 0.2 percent in the last 16 minutes of
trading before closing little changed from yesterday amid
suspected intervention by the central bank. The monetary
authority sold the local dollar in the run-up to the close on
most days since March 2012, according to traders who asked not
to be identified.  One-month non-deliverable forwards were little changed this
week at NT$29.325 per dollar as of 4:18 p.m. in Taipei,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts slid 0.1
percent today.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, this week and one basis point
today to 3.24 percent.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was steady this week
and today at 0.386 percent, a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  