-- Malaysia Targets 5.5% Growth as Najib Pledges Fiscal Prudence
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-10-25T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/malaysia-targets-5-5-growth-as-najib-pledges-fiscal-prudence.html
Malaysia  forecast growth of as much
as 5.5 percent next year as Prime Minister Najib Razak pledged
to support the economy while taking steps to meet the
government’s budget-deficit reduction goals.  Gross domestic product  may expand 5 percent to 5.5 percent
in 2014 from an estimated 4.5 percent to 5 percent this year,
according to the  Ministry of Finance’s  2013/2014 economic report
released today in conjunction with the budget speech. The  fiscal
deficit  will shrink to 3.5 percent of GDP next year from 4
percent in 2013, meeting the target set previously.  “While supporting the growth momentum, we are fully aware
of the need to be fiscally responsible,” Najib said in the
report. “We are also pursuing better targeted, efficient and
effective government expenditure. One of the measures towards
this goal is to gradually carry out subsidy rationalization,
with complementary measures to assist the vulnerable groups.”  Najib, 60, began shifting his focus to improving government
finances and averting a credit rating downgrade after cementing
his leadership of the country in a May general election and
retaining his grip on the ruling party this month. Having given
handouts to the poor and pay increases for civil servants to woo
voters earlier, he is now under pressure to introduce a
potentially unpopular consumption tax and curb spending.  Stocks, bonds and the ringgit advanced this week on
optimism the prime minister will follow through on politically
unpopular revenue-generating measures after  Fitch Ratings  cut
Malaysia’s credit outlook to negative in July, citing rising
debt levels and a lack of budgetary reform.  Stocks Rise  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index of shares climbed to a
record close yesterday. The ringgit gained this week after
touching a four-month high of 3.1413 on Oct. 18. It has
appreciated more than 3 percent in October, the second-best
performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies behind
 Indonesia ’s rupiah.  The government will further cut state subsidies, broaden
its tax base and manage spending “prudently,” Najib said in an
Oct. 11 interview. Cabinet would meet before the 2014 budget is
released to decide if there’s enough public support to introduce
a goods and services tax, he said then.  Protests against the  consumption tax  were planned in
several locations nationwide this week by a citizen group called
 Oppressed People Network , a sign of the resistance Najib may
face if he proceeds with the levy. About 50 people gathered
outside Parliament today before Najib began his 2014 budget
speech, carrying banners to reject any GST.  Easing Burden  Should the government decide to implement a GST, the
current sales tax and service levy will be abolished, according
to the finance ministry report.  To lighten the burden on the lower-income groups, essential
food items such as rice, sugar, meat and vegetables may be zero-rated while services including public transport may be exempted
from the new tax, the report said. Najib also targets to start
implementing a comprehensive social safety net in 2015, he said
in the report, without giving details.  Najib’s government is forecasting federal spending of 262.2
billion ringgit ($83 billion) in 2014, according to the finance
ministry’s report. Total expenditure for this year is estimated
at 261.3 billion ringgit, 4.6 percent more than originally
budgeted.  The administration will cap debt service charges at below
15 percent of revenue and total federal government debt within
55 percent of GDP to make sure its finances remain healthy, it
said.  Malaysia’s current-account surplus is estimated to narrow
to 26.6 billion ringgit this year from 57.3 billion ringgit in
2012, the report showed.  “The government will do what is right for our economy,”
Najib said in a statement yesterday. “Some measures may not be
popular now, but over the medium term what is good for the
economy is also good for the people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  