-- Amazon Sales Growing Ahead of Holiday Shopping Season
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-10-25T20:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/amazon-sales-growing-ahead-of-holiday-shopping-season.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is stepping up
spending on warehouses and Web-based services, boosting costs to
a record level in a drive to sell more products during the
holiday season.  The world’s largest online retailer reported yesterday that
third-quarter revenue grew 24 percent to $17.1 billion, topping
analysts’ average projection of $16.8 billion, according to
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. That helped curtail net losses,
which narrowed to $41 million from $274 million a year earlier.
Investors cheered the results, pushing shares up 9.4 percent,
the biggest gain in 18 months.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is pouring money into
the delivery network, cloud-computing services and line of
Kindle e-readers and tablets, sacrificing near-term profits to
fuel growth. That could put Amazon on track to outpace the e-commerce market in the last three months of the year, when
online sales are seen climbing 15.5 percent to $83.2 billion,
 according  to EMarketer Inc.  “There is no other company in the world that has such an
awful history of profitability, but continues to be rewarded for
it so handsomely,” said  Sucharita Mulpuru , an analyst at
Forrester Research in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Amazon, based in  Seattle , rose to $363.39 at the close in
New York. Amazon is trading at about 138  times  projected
earnings for the year compared with a ratio of 19 for  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fourth-quarter sales will be $23.5 billion to $26.5
billion, the company said. Analysts on average were projecting
revenue of $25.9 billion.  Online Shopping  While Amazon’s results may fuel investor optimism that its
holiday quarter will outpace the industry, EBay gave a sales
forecast for the period earlier this month that fell short of
analysts’ forecasts.  Bezos, who founded Amazon in 1994, is spending cash to
build warehouses closer to customers, a strategy meant to reduce
shipping costs over time. Fulfillment expenses increased 35
percent to $2.03 billion, while technology and content expenses
climbed 45 percent to $1.73 billion.  “The cons are that Amazon continues to be at best barely
profitable and that shipping and freight continues to be an
enormous cost for them, and that doesn’t really improve as they
scale the business because picking, packing and shipping
packages are variable expenses,” Mulpuru said.  Shipping Network  Amazon is building fewer fulfillment centers with more
square footage in each and consolidating its smaller warehouses,
Chief Financial Officer Tom Szkutak said on a conference call
yesterday. While Amazon had worked to open 19 warehouses ahead
of the holiday season last year, this year the company is
planning to open seven, Szkutak said.  The Web retailer reported a negative operating margin of
0.1 percent in the third quarter, compared with minus 0.2
percent a year earlier. In North America, the most mature
market, the margin contracted to 2.9 percent from 3.7 percent.  Sales by third parties on the site, which bring in higher
margins, made up 40 percent of items sold, compared with 41
percent in the third quarter of last year, Szkutak said. Amazon
takes a commission that’s logged almost entirely as profit when
consumers purchase from an outside seller, helping the Web
retailer buffer margin contraction.  Kindle Fire  Amazon also unveiled its third generation of Kindle Fire
tablets in September, seeking to set itself apart in an
increasingly crowded market. While Apple Inc. makes money each
time an iPad is sold, Amazon offers its devices at cost and aims
to profit from sales of digital movies, books and music.  The online retailer said it added “millions” of Prime
members in the last 90 days, though the company didn’t disclose
the total number of subscribers. Prime buyers, who pay $79 a
year for two-day shipping and access to video and other content,
are some of Amazon’s most loyal customers, staying with the
company longer than those who don’t subscribe, Szkutak said.  “They are growing revenues nicely,” said Michael Pachter,
an analyst at Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles who rates the
stock the equivalent of a hold. “They are going to get to a
point where they can’t spend all of the profit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  