-- Man. United Waits for Rooney Contract Move, Times Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-25T04:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/man-united-waits-for-rooney-contract-move-times-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Waiting Game  Manchester United  is prepared to wait for  Wayne Rooney  to
make the first move before negotiations over a new contract even
after his strong start to the season, the  Times reported .  The club’s hierarchy believes that it should hold off until
Rooney has indicated that he’s ready to discuss terms after his
unsettled offseason when he tried to engineer a move to Chelsea,
the newspaper added.  Rooney also is happy to play a waiting game,  according to
the Sun , which added that United is confident of tying the
 England  forward to a new four-year agreement.  Fabregas Future  Barcelona midfielder Cesc Fabregas said he would like to
return to Arsenal as a coach when he retires from playing, the
 Guardian reported .  “The club’s like a family so even if it wasn’t as a coach,
I’m sure they’d give me the chance to play a role,” the
newspaper cited Fabregas as saying. “It’s a club that is always
going to be there and will always open its doors to me.”  Toure’s Warning  Manchester City midfielder Yaya Toure, who said he was
subjected to racist chants by some CSKA Moscow supporters in a
Champions League match two days ago, warned that  Russia  may face
a 2018  World Cup  boycott by players unless it does more to stamp
out racism, the  Daily Mail reported .  “They need to sort it out before the World Cup,” the Mail
cited the Ivory Coast midfielder as saying. “Otherwise, if we
are not confident coming to the World Cup in Russia, we don’t
come.”  Jorginho in Demand  Arsenal, Chelsea and Liverpool are vying with  Inter Milan 
to sign Verona midfielder Jorginho, the  Daily Star reported .  Brazil-born Jorginho, 21, was watched by representatives of
Arsenal and Chelsea in Verona’s 3-2 win against Parma five days
ago, when he scored two goals to help lift his team to fourth
place in  Italy ’s Serie A, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  