-- Apple, Google Must Face Group Antitrust Hiring Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-10-25T23:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/apple-google-must-face-group-antitrust-hiring-lawsuit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and two
other Silicon Valley companies must face a group lawsuit
representing more than 64,000 technical employees claiming their
incomes were held down by the companies’ agreements not to
recruit one another’s workers.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , California,
yesterday granted class-action certification. Koh’s ruling
follows an April ruling rejecting the employees’ bid to proceed
as a class -- partly because they failed to demonstrate that all
or almost all class members were affected by the anti-solicitation agreements -- and an August hearing in which she
said the case was “much stronger” after additional pretrial
information gathering.  The suit represents software and hardware engineers,
programmers, animators, digital artists, Web developers and
other technical professionals, according to the ruling. Kelly Dermody, a lawyer representing them, said in an e-mail that
there are as many as 64,626 potential class members.  “The court finds that, based on the extensive documentary
evidence, economic theory, data, and expert statistical
modeling, plaintiffs’ methodology demonstrates that common
issues are likely to predominate over individual issues,” Koh
wrote in her ruling.  The lawsuit is a private action on behalf of employees that
mirrors claims the companies settled with the U.S. Justice
Department in 2010.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  are the
other remaining defendants.  ‘Top Talent’  “We have always actively and aggressively recruited top
talent,” Google said in an e-mailed response to Koh’s ruling.  Apple spokeswoman Kristin Huguet and Intel spokesman Chris
Kraeuter declined to comment. Adobe, in an e-mailed statement
also declined to comment.  Three companies named in the original complaint,  Intuit
Inc. (INTU)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s animation studio Pixar and visual-effects specialist Lucasfilm Ltd., have tentatively settled the
antitrust claims.  While Koh must approve the settlements, Intuit has agreed
to pay $11 million, and Pixar and Lucasfilm will together pay $9
million as part of the agreements, Dermody said. Employees from
those three companies represent 8 percent of the class, she
said.  The companies had argued that the employees’ lawyers failed
to show that everyone in the proposed group was hurt by any such
no-hire agreements with rivals, as is required for class
certification.  The case is In re High-Tech Employee Antitrust Litigation,
11-cv-02509, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  