-- Asmussen Says Italy’s Reform Progress Will Shape Europe’s Future
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-10-25T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/asmussen-says-italy-s-reform-progress-will-shape-europe-s-future.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said the fate of the euro area
hinges on whether  Italy  can turn around its economy.  “The future of the euro area will not be decided in Paris
or Berlin, or in Frankfurt or Brussels. It will be decided in
 Rome ,” Asmussen said in a speech in Milan today. “The euro
area cannot prosper if its third-largest economy has a potential
growth rate of zero. Italy has to grow, and this will not happen
by waiting for the cycle to turn.”  Italy’s 1.6 trillion-euro ($2.2 trillion) economy has
contracted for eight straight quarters, the longest slump since
World War II, as political squabbles distract policy makers from
devising a strategy to rekindle growth. Enrico Letta, Italy’s
third premier since 2011, is shifting the burden from taxpayers
to government bureaucracy in a bid to spur the stagnant economy
as deficit-cutting continues.  “The challenges for Italy are long-term and the solution
is structural,” Asmussen said. “Italy is too big to be rescued
from the outside, it has to make the turnaround on its own. Its
fate will critically determine the fate of the euro area.”  The  banking union Europe  is building will support a
recovery in the 17-nation euro region, Asmussen said. The
balance-sheet review the ECB will undertake starting next month,
as a first step toward it, “is an extraordinary opportunity to
rebuild confidence in the banking sector and promote the long
overdue repair of bank balance sheets, which in turn is a
precondition for a sustainable economic recovery,” he said.  At the same time, “credible national backstops must be put
in place,” Asmussen said. “If not, the credibility of the
whole exercise is put at risk as the outcome will then almost
certainly be negatively perceived by market participants. Doing
this balance sheet assessment without a backstop in place would
be a bit like getting on a boat in rough weather conditions, and
not taking a life jacket on board.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  