-- Atlas Copco Falls After Third-Quarter Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-10-25T11:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/atlas-copco-falls-after-third-quarter-profit-misses-estimates.html
Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA)  plunged the most in
two years after the world’s largest maker of air compressors
posted third-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates amid
a decrease in mining equipment orders.  The shares fell as much as 5.6 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since November 2011, and were down 3.8 percent
at 184.90 kronor at 1:50 p.m. in  Stockholm , where Atlas Copco is
based. Net income dropped to 3.05 billion kronor ($482 million)
from 3.48 billion kronor a year earlier, the company said today.
Analysts on average predicted profit of 3.15 billion kronor,
based on 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Order intake for Atlas Copco’s equipment was lower
compared to the previous year, primarily due to a significant
decrease in orders received for mining equipment and partly due
to fewer large compressor orders,” the company said. “Overall
demand for the group’s products and services is expected to
remain at the current level” in the near term.  The company said it would continue to reduce capacity for
weak demand for mining equipment, with steps including job cuts.
Most markets in southern and eastern Europe “had a negative
development’ in the third quarter, and order intake from
 Australia  fell “significantly” from the previous year because
of less demand from the  mining industry , Atlas Copco said.  Revenue declined 7 percent to 20.6 billion kronor in the
quarter.  Atlas Copco, valued at 220 billion kronor, makes products
from air compressors to rock drills and assembly systems for
industrial, mining and construction companies.  The company was founded in 1873 to build railroads in
Sweden and later added air compressors and  diesel engines . It
equipped the ship used by Norwegian explorer Roald
Amundsen when his team was the first to reach the  South Pole  in
1911. One of the founders was financier Andre Oscar Wallenberg,
who also established Stockholms Enskilda Bank in 1856. The
Wallenberg family is still a major stakeholder through Investor
AB’s  holding .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  