-- Australia on Target to Ink Asia FTA Deals Within Year, Robb Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-10-25T06:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/australia-on-target-to-ink-asia-fta-deals-within-year-robb-says.html
Australia ’s free-trade agreement
talks with  China ,  Japan  and South Korea, its three biggest
export markets, are on target to be completed within a year,
Trade Minister Andrew Robb said.  “It’s quite clear that they want to complete things as
quickly as possible, they’re all talking about doing it within
12 months,” Robb, whose Liberal-National coalition came to
power in elections last month, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in  Hong Kong  today. “It’s a stretch target, but we
think we can do it.”  Prime Minister  Tony Abbott  announced in his Sept. 7 victory
speech that Australia, the world’s 12th-largest economy, was
again “open for business” after promoting his party’s
financial-management credentials during the election campaign.
He appointed Robb to make headway on free-trade deals with Asian
countries also including India and Indonesia, alongside the
broader Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement.  Abbott has said he wants to encourage foreign investment,
although he told an audience in Beijing last year that Chinese
purchases of Australian assets were complicated by the
prevalence of state-owned enterprises. He also plans to lower
the threshold for foreign purchases of agricultural land
requiring regulatory approval to A$15 million ($14.4 million)
from A$244 million currently.  Robb, who has held free-trade talks in  Asia  during the past
three weeks, said his government was willing to compromise in
its bid to ink a deal with China. Australia’s  two-way trade  with
the world’s most populous nation reached A$117.7 billion last
year, spurred by appetite for its resources such as  iron ore  and
coal. About 30 percent of Australia’s 2012 exports were to
China.  China Negotiations  Should China and Australia be prepared to meet half way in
negotiations there was every chance of concluding “quality
agreements,” Robb said. “So we see a lot of action across
agriculture, we see a lot of action across services, we see
action on the investment front,” he said. “The products that
we provide best are the things that Korea and Japan and China
need. In reverse, so much of the capital that we need to
continue to grow our economy” will come from the region.  Regarding the TPP, the “ingredients” were in place for a
final deal to be completed this year, Robb said. Negotiators
still aim to complete the 12-nation TPP trade talks this year,
leaders of the countries said in a statement Oct. 8. An
agreement would link an area with about $28 trillion in annual
economic output.  “There’s still a need to put on the table all the final
market-access issues” for the TPP to be finalized, he said.
“If there’s common sense and a bit of give and take in all of
those 12 countries, again I think it’s quite possible to
conclude this year.”  Australia’s ban on Huawei Technologies Co., China’s largest
maker of telecommunications equipment, by former Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  in 2012 from helping to build Australia’s national
broadband network hasn’t been discussed with Chinese officials,
Robb said. While his government is reviewing the ban, the issue
isn’t connected to the free-trade agreement negotiations with
China, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  