-- BASF’s Verbund-Locked CEO Hunts Savings Not DuPont-Style Exits
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-25T11:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/basf-s-verbund-locked-ceo-hunts-savings-not-dupont-style-exits.html
While  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW)  make hasty retreats from commodity products,  BASF SE (BAS)  Chief
Executive Officer Kurt Bock is locked into the company’s 148-year-old all-encompassing approach of extracting the gas to the
ingredients used in nutritional supplements.  DuPont late yesterday announced a spinoff of its
performance chemicals division with $7.2 billion in sales, and
Dow said it would divest as much as $4 billion in assets, with
more likely to follow. Though Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF
views bundling its styrene into a joint venture in 2011 as a
success, it isn’t planning measures as drastic as its U.S.
peers, Bock said today.  North American shale gas, expansion by lower-cost producers
in Asia and the Middle East are helping redefine Europe’s role
in the $4 trillion industry by intensifying competition in
export markets. Bock’s near-term hopes lie in the further fine-tuning of BASF’s so-called Verbund systems, chemical sites bound
together by a web of pipes that both deliver feedstock and whisk
byproducts off to adjoining plants that need them, so as little
is wasted.  “Following Dow and DuPont would destroy value rather than
create it,” said Heiko Feber, a Bielefeld, Germany-based
Bankhaus Lampe analyst who has a hold rating on BASF stock. “If
you look at the facilities in Ludwigshafen, you see how one
upstream product flows straight into the next factory and is
then worked upon down the pipeline. I don’t know how you could
ever manage to carve anything out from that.”  Cost Cutting  Having aborted an earlier attempt to exit a textile-chemicals business, Bock is reviewing under-performing
businesses to find further steps that can be taken to enhance
their profitability.  BASF has the potential to exceed its aim of improving
profit by 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) by extending and
accelerating the savings plan that helped third-quarter earnings
beat analysts’ estimates, Bock said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today.  The company is on track to meet its goal of realizing 300
million euros in savings this year and is evaluating further
measures, he said. The performance products division is a focus,
with restructuring planned in the stagnant market of paper
chemicals.  “I do think we have the opportunity to improve further,”
said Bock, who became CEO in May 2011. “We are in the midst of
our budgeting discussions right now and we have to wait for the
outcome, but I’m quite confident that we have additional ideas
of what to do.”  Common Goals  BASF, Dow and DuPont have common goals, to remove those
commodity chemicals that cause volatility in earnings as they
move in tandem with economies and focus on the more value-added
segments of the chemical industry, such as nutritional
supplements and crop protection, where the latest technology and
innovation is paramount to success.  For BASF, that need not exclude investing in the raw
materials needed to create those products.  BASF is in talks with fertilizer maker  Yara International
ASA (YAR)  about building a worldscale ammonia plant on the U.S. Gulf
Coast. Such a plant would be backward integration for BASF,
securing the raw materials it needs for polyurethane foams,
resins and crop-protection sprays.  BASF is also expanding its oil-and-gas exploration and
production business Wintershall, that’s helped buoy earnings
during times of high crude prices as well as given security in
the supply of raw materials.  Bock said today he’s evaluating further options related to
the shale gas boom in the U.S.  Dow, DuPont   Dow yesterday raised its disposal target to $3 billion to
$4 billion, with CEO Andrew Liveris pledging that more is to
come. It’s earmarked a chlorine business for a sale or a joint
venture that would end Dow’s 117-year presence in that market.  “We consider it a valuable asset, but no longer maybe
valuable to us because of the other criteria, which is to de-commoditize our earnings and really invest in IP and the value-add,” the Dow CEO said yesterday.  DuPont’s decision to separate its performance chemicals
division -- which makes materials such as the white TiO2 pigment
used in paints and toothpaste -- could be the start of a “long
metamorphosis” against a backdrop of pressure from activist
shareholder Nelson Peltz to maximise returns for investors,
according to a Citi research report.  Verbund Value  BASF was founded in Ludwigshafen in 1865 after the planned
acquisition of a site in Mannheim fell through, and within seven
years started building 400 houses for its employees. The company
now has 33,300 employees in or around the city of about 160,000
people. That’s almost half of the 71,144 employees it has in
Europe and little under a third of the 113,000 global total.  BASF says it saves about one billion euros annually through
its Verbund structure. It has six sites globally which operate
the structure, of which its home Ludwigshafen location is the
biggest. The other locations are Geismar, Louisiana and
Freeport,  Texas  in North America,  Singapore , Sao Paulo and
Nanjing,  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  