-- BASF Profit Beats Estimates as Specialty Chemicals Push Pays Off
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-25T05:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/basf-profit-beats-estimates-as-specialty-chemicals-push-pays-off.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest
chemical maker, reported third-quarter profit which beat analyst
estimates after making acquisitions into higher-margin areas
such as nutrition.  Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time items jumped
15 percent to 1.69 billion euros ($2.33 billion), the
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company said today. The average
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 1.62 billion
euros. Sales climbed 1.5 percent to 17.7 billion euros.  “The increase in earnings was largely due to higher
contributions from the Functional Materials and Solutions, and
Performance Products segments,” Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock said in the statement. “Currency effects will continue to
negatively impact sales and earnings in the fourth quarter.”  As Bock works towards a revenue target of 110 billion euros
by the end of the decade, he has been cutting jobs in Europe and
adding production in Asia to counter increased competition in
areas such as additives used in paper and pulp. BASF announced
plans this week to scrap 650 positions at its pigment unit,
while creating new positions in  China  and South Korea.  Bock has been shifting BASF toward additives for health
foods and other higher-margin specialty chemicals to help shield
the company from economic swings. He acquired Pronova BioPharma
ASA for $654 million last November to add Omega-3 fatty acid
offerings.  BASF reiterated today it expects full-year sales and
earnings higher than last year’s 72.1 billion euros and 6.6
billion euros respectively. BASF has instigated a four-year plan
to trim costs by 1 billion euros by the end of 2015, with about
300 million euros in savings realized this year.  The 147-year-old company is joining rivals  Saudi Basic
Industries Corp. (SABIC)  and  Clariant AG (CLN)  in making cutbacks as the
advent of low-cost producers in Asia and a renaissance in the
U.S.’s commodity chemical industry on the back of shale gas
changes the dynamics of the marketplace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  