-- BBVA Quarterly Profit Misses Estimates on Bad-Loan Charge
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-10-25T15:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/bbva-third-quarter-profit-misses-estimates-on-bad-loan-charge.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
 Spain ’s second-biggest bank, posted third-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates on a bad-loan charge and said it will
skip January’s dividend.  BBVA fell 2.3 percent in  Madrid  trading after reporting  net
income  of 195 million euros ($269.5 million), less than the
614.5 million-euro average  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of six
analysts. The Bilbao, Spain-based bank booked a 600 million-euro
charge for reclassifying 3.86 billion euros of refinanced loans
as non-performing.  “The focus still has to be Spain as an ongoing drag on
earnings,” Daragh Quinn, an  analyst  at Nomura International in
Madrid, said in a phone interview.  BBVA is still cleaning up its Spanish loan book after a
government order to banks last year to speed up recognition of
losses on real estate holdings helped drag down 2012 profit by
44 percent. The bank said last week it would record a 2.3
billion-euro charge against 2013 earnings for reducing its stake
in China Citic Bank Corp. as it maneuvers to bolster capital.  Euro-area banks are also likely to speed efforts to shore
up their finances as the  European Central Bank  gets ready to
scrutinize their health. The ECB will go through the accounts of
about 124 of the region’s banks in a three-step process starting
next month. Examiners will first identify problematic loans,
then review banks’ balance sheets in early 2014 and conduct
stress tests before officially taking over as banking regulator
a year from now, the central bank said on Oct. 23.  Dividend Plan  BBVA will skip a third 10 cent cash payment against 2013
earnings in January and increase a payout in April to 17 cents
from 12 cents originally forecast under its scrip dividend
program. It is complying with Bank of Spain guidance to limit
distributions to shareholders and good practice recommended by
the  International Monetary Fund , Chief Operating Officer Angel Cano said on a webcast for analysts today.  BBVA will eventually move to a policy of paying a cash
dividend of between 35 percent and 40 percent of earnings from
its current practice of paying 42 cents a share in cash and
stock, the company said. For 2014, the bank will continue to
distribute two dividends in cash and two that allow shareholders
to take payment in stock.  “We have to end up moving sooner or later toward a single
policy of paying the dividend in cash,” said Cano. The new
approach, which the bank will start phasing in next year, is
designed to enable the company to finance growth, he said.  Complicated Way  “It was positive because it showed they understand what
the Bank of Spain has said and also the market’s concerns,”
said  Nick Anderson , an analyst at Berenberg in  London .  Other analysts were less positive. “It looks like a very
complicated way of saying they’re cutting the dividend,” said
 Neil Smith , an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in Bielefeld,  Germany ,
in a phone interview.  The  shares  fell 2.3 percent to 8.85 euros at close in
Madrid, trimming the gain this year to 27 percent.  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s largest bank,  rose  7 percent this year.  BBVA presented “a decent set of results except for
provisions, which surprised negatively in Spain,” Stefan Nedialkov, Ronit Ghose and Vikas Sharma, analysts at Citigroup
Inc., said in a note published today.  Bad Loans  Net interest income, or the excess revenue from interest
earned on assets compared with that paid on  deposits , fell 3.5
percent from the second quarter and 8.4 percent from a year
earlier to 3.55 billion euros, BBVA reported. Gross lending fell
an annual 5.4 percent, the bank said.  Bad loans as a proportion of total loans rose to 6.7
percent from 5.5 percent in June, the bank said. The core
capital ratio rose to 11.4 percent from 11.3 percent in the
second quarter, based on Basel 2.5 standards.  BBVA will have a core capital ratio under fully-loaded
Basel III criteria of at least 9.5 percent at the end of the
year, compared with 8.4 percent currently, Cano said. The figure
may rise further if the bank is allowed to treat deferred tax
assets as capital, he said.  The Spanish banking business posted a 265 million-euro loss
in the third quarter compared with a 250 million-euro profit a
year before. Net interest income at the division fell 20 percent
in the first nine months of the year, hit by a court decision
forcing BBVA to remove floors, or minimum  interest rates ,
applied to mortgage contracts.  Profit from  Mexico , BBVA’s biggest-earning division, rose
to 427 million euros from 401 million euros in the same quarter
a year ago. Earnings from  South America  rose to 338 million
euros from 232 million euros a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  