-- Belgacom Slumps as Mobile Prices Outweigh Fixed: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-10-25T16:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/belgacom-slumps-as-mobile-prices-outweigh-fixed-brussels-mover.html
Belgacom SA (BELG) , the largest telephone
company in  Belgium , fell the most in three months in Brussels
trading as a second round of price increases for its fixed-line
products this year failed to halt a slide in revenue.  Belgacom fell 1.20 euros, or 5.4 percent, to 21 euros at
the 5:35 p.m. close of trading on Euronext Brussels, ending a
rally that had pushed the shares 18 percent higher in the past
month before today.  Third-quarter  sales  slumped 3.1 percent, accelerating from
a 2.5 percent drop in the preceding three months, when excluding
the effects of a disposal, accounting changes and litigation
settlement, the Brussels-based company said today in a
statement. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell 9 percent on that basis, equal to the rate of
decline in the second quarter.  Belgacom Chief Executive Officer Didier Bellens relies on
cost reductions from a shrinking workforce, a shift to online
sales and the elimination of legacy network switches to make up
for an accelerated decline in Belgian mobile pricing. The phone
company has to put its wireless clients onto lower-priced rate
plans to stem customer defections and another price increase for
its fixed products in July couldn’t offset the revenue drop in
mobile.  “Thirty percent of Belgacom’s customer base was still on
old tariff plans end September,” Emmanuel Carlier, an analyst
at ING Groep NV in Brussels, wrote in an investor note. “After
the recent share rally, Belgacom trades at a 2013 free cash flow
yield of 5.8 percent versus an historical average of 10
percent.”  Interim Dividend  Belgacom generated 410 million euros ($566 million) of cash
not required for reinvestment in the first nine months of the
year, a 24 percent decrease from the same period a year earlier.
Net debt fell to 1.75 billion euros, prior to payment of a 50-cent per share interim dividend in December, from 2.03 billion
euros at the end of June.  The Belgian government, Belgacom’s majority owner, penciled
in 394.4 million euros of dividend income from Belgacom in its
2014 budget, unchanged from this year, according to
 administration documents .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  