-- Berlusconi Distances Himself From Letta as Party Risks Splitting
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-25T16:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/berlusconi-distances-himself-from-letta-as-party-risks-splitting.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  distanced himself from the government he helped form
in April by rallying his most loyal allies into what may become
a new political party.  The 77-year-old billionaire summoned leaders of his People
of Liberty party today in  Rome  for a meeting that will start his
new movement, Renato Brunetta, the group’s chief whip in the
lower house of parliament said via Twitter Inc. The decision
split the party in two as Deputy Prime Minister  Angelino Alfano ,
its general secretary and its strongest voice in support of the
government, refused to attend.  Berlusconi is seeking to impose his authority over a
smaller group of lawmakers after losing control of People of
Liberty, or PDL, this month in a failed attempt to topple Prime
Minister Enrico Letta. The government, which relies on PDL votes
for support in parliament, may retain a majority if enough of
its members, such as Alfano, refuse to follow Berlusconi into
the new group that Brunetta said will be called Forza Italia.  “The creation of a splinter political group from the
PDL/Forza Italia would not significantly increase the risk of a
possible downfall by Letta’s government,”  Wolfango Piccoli , a
London-based analyst with Teneo Intelligence, said today in a
research note. “To the contrary, the emergence of a centrist
political formation composed by dovish figures from Berlusconi’s
party could provide the government with a more reliable
support.”  Unreliable Backer  Letta, 47, came to power by stitching together a three-party coalition after February elections failed to yield a force
strong enough to govern alone. The PDL is the second-biggest
group behind Letta’s  Democratic Party .  Berlusconi became an increasingly unreliable backer for the
government in recent months as his legal troubles intensified.
Berlusconi, now a senator, is facing expulsion proceedings in
the upper house after the  Supreme Court  upheld his conviction
for  tax fraud  on Aug. 1. His push to bring down the government
failed when Alfano secured enough PDL dissidents to ensure Letta
victory in an Oct. 2 confidence vote.  Forza Italia is the name of the party Berlusconi created
when he entered politics in 1993. That party eventually became
the PDL by merging with other groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  