-- BHP Denies Blocking Access to Small South African Coal Exporters
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-10-25T14:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/bhp-denies-blocking-access-to-small-south-african-coal-exporters.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  rebuffed a report
that it blocked the access of smaller miners to  Africa ’s biggest
coal terminal and said its own expansion in  South Africa  is
curtailed by a lack of port capacity.  State port and rail operator Transnet SOC Ltd. has accused
BHP, a shareholder in the Richards Bay terminal, of not doing
enough to allow black-owned mining companies to use the port,
 Business Day  reported earlier. BHP has refused to allocate
greater export rights demanded by the smaller companies, the
newspaper said, citing Transnet head Brian Molefe.  BHP is “disappointed by the way Transnet’s Chief Executive
Officer Brian Molefe chose to portray the miner as denying small
independent coal exporters access,” Manie Dreyer, president of
BHP’s local coal unit, said in an e-mailed statement. The
company is “short of port capacity and it is unable to even
develop some of its own remaining prospecting rights.”  Shipments from  Richards Bay , designed to handle 91 million
metric tons of coal a year, fall short of that capacity, leaving
some miners unable to export. The terminal’s shareholders
disagree with Transnet over who is at fault for the low volumes,
with the latter accusing holders of shutting out small exporters
and BHP claiming that Transnet’s freight rail capacity to the
port is insufficient.  Transnet is conducting a feasibility study for a proposed
new coal terminal next to Richards Bay to cater for small
miners, Molefe said in an interview in Johannesburg yesterday.
The facility would have a capacity at least 10 million tons.  “The principle is if the small miners feel they are not
being accommodated at Richards Bay, we will take measures to
accommodate them,” Molefe said.  The CEO said he recently had a “disastrous meeting” with
BHP at which they “nearly came to blows” because the company
had refused to give up an extra 1 million tons of annual export
allocation to junior miners, according to Business Day.  BHP owns a 21 percent stake in the Richards Bay terminal,
down from 40 percent a decade ago, according to the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net  