-- BlueCrest Said to Hire Team of Ex-Brevan Howard Credit Traders
-- B y   C h r i s   L a r s o n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-10-25T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/bluecrest-said-to-hire-team-of-ex-brevan-howard-credit-traders.html
BlueCrest Capital Management LLP,
the $35 billion hedge-fund firm run by  Michael Platt , hired a
team of former  Brevan Howard  Capital Management LLP credit
traders, two people with knowledge of the situation said.  The group includes Wayne Leslie and Jason Feasey, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the appointments
haven’t been announced formally. Leslie, 39, joined Brevan
Howard last year from Goldman Sachs Group Inc., where he was a
managing director responsible for European investment-grade
credit trading. Feasey, 41, had joined the Jersey-based hedge
fund from Bank of America Corp. in 2011.  The five traders left Brevan Howard in August, according to
the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority’s register. Leslie started
at BlueCrest in  London  on Oct. 18, the filings show. Officials
at Brevan Howard and BlueCrest said they couldn’t comment on the
moves while the traders either declined to comment or couldn’t
be reached by telephone or e-mail.  BlueCrest, co-founded by Platt, a former JPMorgan Chase &
Co. proprietary trader, has more than doubled assets since the
end of 2009 as a fifth year of short-term  interest rates  near
zero and unprecedented bond buying by the  Federal Reserve  pushes
investors into riskier investments such as corporate credit.  Brevan Howard scaled back its risk levels and headcount
after its biggest hedge fund had its worst monthly loss since
2008 in June. Leslie and Feasey were among at least a dozen
traders who have left the company since the end of May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Larson in London at 
 clarson22@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  