-- Bo Appeal Denied as China Court Upholds Life Sentence
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-25T03:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/bo-appeal-denied-as-china-court-upholds-life-sentence-for-graft.html
Bo Xilai’s appeal of his life
sentence for graft and abuse of power was rejected by a Chinese
court, which upheld the harshest sentence in three decades for a
former member of the Communist Party’s Politburo.  The Shandong High People’s Court upheld the original
verdict, affirming a lower court’s decision on Sept. 22 to send
Bo, 64, to prison for the rest of his life, according to a
 statement  posted on its website. Bo’s appeal didn’t have a
“factual or legal basis,” and the ruling was final, Hou
Jianjun, a spokesman for the court, told reporters. Four of Bo’s
family members attended the proceeding, he said.  Bo, a former Commerce Minister whose last post was the
party’s top official in the southwestern city of Chongqing, was
found guilty last month of taking 20.4 million  yuan  ($3.4
million) in bribes, embezzling 5 million yuan and abusing power.  His downfall came as the party was in the midst of a once-a-decade leadership transition, and he was mentioned as a
possible candidate for the elite Politburo Standing Committee
before his ouster. The sentence fits a broader campaign against
corruption that President Xi Jinping has said poses a threat to
party rule.  ‘Dead and Buried’  “The appeal is going through the motions so that they can
say they’ve observed the rights,” Kerry Brown, executive
director of the University of Sydney’s  China  Studies Centre,
told Bloomberg Television before the decision. “So I think he’s
dead and buried, really, in terms of his political life.”  As the son of former Vice Premier  Bo Yibo , one of the
“eight immortals” of the Communist Party, Bo belongs to the
princeling class of second-generation officials whose families
are tied together through decades of alliances and patronage. Bo
gained popularity for cracking down on organized crime in
Chongqing and his efforts to improve urban life.  His sentencing came more than a year after his wife, Gu Kailai, was convicted of murdering British businessman Neil Heywood. Heywood’s death in November 2011 set off a chain of
events leading to the attempted defection to the U.S. of
Chongqing’s police chief in February 2012, Bo’s removal from his
post in the city the following month and his suspension from the
ruling Politburo that April.  His life term is the harshest penalty meted out to a former
or sitting member of the Politburo since Chairman  Mao Zedong ’s
widow was handed a death sentence in 1981, later commuted to
life in prison, for her actions during the 1966-76 Cultural
Revolution.  Bo’s father was one of the Communist revolutionaries who
together with Mao helped found the People’s Republic of China in
1949. The elder Bo died in 2007, the year his son was elevated
to the Politburo.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in  Hong Kong  at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  