-- Brazil Lets Foreign Investors Boost Stake in Banco do Brasil
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-10-25T19:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/brazil-lets-foreign-investors-increase-stakes-in-banco-do-brasil.html
Brazil  increased to 30 percent the
combined stake foreigners can hold in  Banco do Brasil SA , the
state-controlled lender that’s  Latin America ’s biggest by
assets, to boost liquidity and the share price.  Investors outside the country had reached the previous
limit of a combined total of 20 percent of outstanding shares,
the Brasilia-based lender said today in a regulatory filing.
That limit was raised from 12.5 percent in September 2009.  Broadening the pool of shareholders will increase
liquidity, which would give Banco do Brasil a higher weighting
in the benchmark Ibovespa index, Chief Financial Officer Ivan Monteiro said in an interview. Investors who try to mimic the
performance of the index will have to increase their holdings,
which may boost a share price Monteiro said is undervalued
compared with the bank’s peers.  “It’s a very healthy move that will have a positive impact
on Banco do Brasil’s shares,”  Pedro Galdi , chief strategist at
Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora, said in a telephone
interview. “It will attract foreign investors.”  Banco do Brasil  rose  1.2 percent to 28.67 reais in Sao
Paulo at 5:06 p.m., compared with a 1.3 percent drop for the 73-company Ibovespa benchmark index.  Investors outside Brazil owned about 19.4 percent of the
company as of June, according to the bank’s website. The
Brazilian government is the biggest shareholder, with about 59
percent.  BM&FBovespa SA, which operates the Sao Paulo exchange, will
start in January weighting stocks in the Ibovespa primarily by
market value instead of trading volume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  