-- Brazil Real Notes Show Optimism Smart Money Rejects: Currencies
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n ,   Y e   X i e   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-10-25T08:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/brazil-real-notes-show-optimism-smart-money-rejects-currencies.html
Individual investors are buying
record amounts of notes betting that Brazil’s real will continue
its world-beating advance amid speculation the Federal Reserve
will keep pumping money into the global economy into 2014.  The demand runs counter to the outlook from professional
strategists, who predict a 5 percent drop in the real by the end
of March. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  led
$73.5 million of real-linked U.S. structured-note sales this
year, surpassing the $66.5 million issued in 2011 when the real
strengthened to a 12-year high, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While Brazilian officials have sent mixed messages about
continuing the market intervention that triggered the real’s 11
percent rally over the past two months, the currency is being
spurred by the $85 billion that the Fed is pumping into the
economy every month, some of which is flowing out of the U.S.  “It won’t be long before we start to hear speculation
about the Fed’s tapering, and Brazil’s central bank will have to
support the real again,” Hideaki Iha, a currency trader at Sao
Paulo-based brokerage Fair Corretora de Cambio e Valores, said
Oct. 21 in a phone interview. Still, “the central bank can’t
let the real gain too much,” he said.  Best, Worst  The real has rebounded from a 4 1/2-year low on Aug. 21,
making it the best-performer among 31 major peers tracked by
Bloomberg in the period. Until that date, it was the year’s
worst after the South African rand, tumbling 16 percent.
 Brazil ’s currency climbed to a four-month high of 2.1472 per
dollar on Oct. 18 and was at 2.2033 yesterday in New York.  The rally started when Brazil announced its $60 billion
intervention program on Aug. 22, and accelerated with Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s surprise Sept. 18 decision that U.S.
policy makers would maintain stimulus until they saw evidence of
a more sustained recovery.  The Fed will delay reducing its bond purchases until March
after a 16-day federal government shutdown hurt growth,
according to the median estimate of 40 economists surveyed Oct.
17-18, after a fiscal agreement broke the political deadlock. In
a Sept. 18-19 poll, economists said the central bank would
reduce the purchases from December.  Retail Buyers  Structured notes are debt securities packaged with
derivatives, and allow investors to customize wagers on assets.
They’re a way for individual investors, who tend to be excluded
from the mainstream $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market,
to bet on currencies.  The 22 real-linked structured notes sold this year pay
coupons that tend to be higher than equivalent-maturity U.S.
Treasuries, provided the South American currency remains above a
pre-set level for the lifetime of the security.  New York-based Goldman Sachs led the market this year,
selling $34.3 million of the securities, up from $14.8 million
in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  London-based HSBC sold the second-highest amount as well as
the largest offering, an $11.5 million deal April 5.  The one-year note yields 28.5 percent should the real gain
3 percent from the issue date, according to a prospectus filed
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. U.S.
Treasuries due in  12 months  yield 0.102 percent, and the rate
reached a high for this year of 0.168 percent in June, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Before rebounding this year, yearly real-linked notes sales
fell 24 percent in 2012, with investors instead preferring
securities that gain when the Chinese  yuan  and the Mexican peso
rise against the dollar, Bloomberg data since 2010 show.  Rare Optimism  While the market remains small, the sales signal optimism
in the real that’s rare among banks and institutional investors.
Brazil’s currency will weaken to 2.32 per dollar by March,
according to the median estimate of more than 30 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. On June 6, they were predicting a level
of 2 per dollar.  Brazil’s central bank has been auctioning $1 billion of
dollar loans every Friday since Aug. 23 and offering the
equivalent of $500 million worth of foreign-exchange swaps each
day, Monday through Thursday, to bolster the currency and
control the price of imports.  “The notion that it’s offering some sort of guarantee is
important for sentiment,” Sebastian Brown, a currency
strategist at Barclays Plc in New York, said in an Oct. 21 phone
interview.  While the Fed’s  bond purchases  “dwarf” local
intervention, Brazil’s program has more influence on the real,
Brown said. The U.K. bank predicts a decline to 2.4 reais per
dollar by the end of the first quarter.  Mixed Messages  Finance Minister Guido Mantega said in September that
Brazil may reduce its participation in currency markets. Central
bank President Alexandre Tombini followed by saying this month
that the program may continue after the scheduled Dec. 31 end
date. Policy makers also failed initially to confirm whether
they’d roll over all contracts maturing Nov. 1, though in a
statement late yesterday said they’d hold auctions to extend the
maturities of the contracts.  Brazil’s central bank “is a bit more hawkish than markets
have given them credit for,”  Win Thin , the global head of
emerging-markets strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in
New York, said in an Oct. 21 phone interview. If policy makers
don’t roll over swaps and credit programs, they’re “in a sense
taking back their intervention to support the real,” he said.  Brazil’s central bank has raised its  benchmark  interest
rate five times since April, to 9.5 percent from 7.25 percent,
in order to damp inflation that has exceed the government’s 4.5
percent target for three years. That’s increasing the appeal of
the real after policy makers around the world cut borrowing
costs to records to stoke growth.  ‘Bad Apples’  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the world’s largest currency trader,
recommended in September that investors sell the real because
it’s one of the “bad apples” of emerging-market currencies.
The Frankfurt-based lender issued a $5.5 million, one-year note
March 1, though it hasn’t sold such securities since making its
bearish call last month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Amanda Williams, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank in New
York, declined to comment on her bank’s sales of real-linked
structured notes, as did Tiffany Galvin of Goldman Sachs and
HSBC’s Juanita Gutierrez.  Deutsche Bank cited a possible credit-rating downgrade and
the biggest current-account deficit in 11 years for its
pessimistic view on Brazil, which, for a decade through 2010,
benefited from the growing power of developing nations, forming
with Russia, India and  China  a group known by the BRIC acronym.  Current Account  The  deficit  in Brazil’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, jumped to 3.6 percent of gross domestic
product in August, the most since 2002, Bloomberg data show.  Gross domestic product will expand 2.4 percent this year
and 2.5 percent in 2014, compared with 5.2 percent in 2008,
before the worst of the global financial crisis, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s Baa2 sovereign
rating -- two levels above junk status -- to “stable” from
“positive” on Oct. 2, citing deteriorating debt and investment
ratios and slow growth.  “The central bank may continue hiking rates into next
year,” Claire Dissaux, the managing director of global
economics and strategy at Millennium Global Investments in
 London , said in a phone interview yesterday. “But long-term,
Brazil still faces structural issues” which “does not bode
well for medium-term real prospects.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  