-- Brown Considering Ban on Investing in 15 Coal-Related Companies
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-10-25T19:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/brown-considering-ban-on-investing-in-15-coal-related-companies.html
Brown University is considering a
ban on investing in 15 companies that mine or burn coal,
requiring the Ivy League school to sell some existing holdings.  The 54 members of Brown Corp., the university’s governing
body, are meeting this weekend at the campus in Providence,
Rhode Island, and plan to discuss a recommendation to divest,
according to Marisa Quinn, a spokeswoman for the school. Any
actions taken at the meeting, which could include a vote on the
issue, would come tomorrow, she said, declining to elaborate.  Students at more than 300 schools in the U.S. have formed
groups in the past year to pressure colleges to divest from oil,
gas and coal companies, seen as the biggest contributors to
climate change. While a handful of schools have agreed to sell
all or some of their fossil-fuel holdings, most, including
wealthier institutions such as Harvard University in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , and Cornell University in Ithaca, New York, have
declined.  “Brown really has a chance here to step up as a leader,”
said Rachel Bishop, an alumnus who graduated this year and has
helped organize the campaign. “It would really signal that
Brown is not afraid to challenge the status quo.”  Brown students have been collecting signatures for a
petition  calling for a ban  on investing in 10 coal-burning
utilities in the U.S., including  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  in  Charlotte ,
North Carolina, as well as five coal mining companies. Last
week, the university’s Advisory Committee on Corporate
Responsibility in Investment Policies, which groups faculty,
students, staff and alumni, repeated its recommendation for
divestment in a letter to President Christina Paxson.  The university, which has an endowment of $2.86 billion,
has stakes in some of the companies, the students said.  Brown Corp. members include Paxson and alumni such as Brian Moynihan, chief executive officer of Bank of America Corp.
Students have  asked  that Moynihan, hedge fund manager Steven Cohen and three other members recuse themselves from the
divestment vote because of their companies’ interests in the
coal business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  