-- Bunge Best Hope Seen With Sugar Bid From Brazil: Real M&A
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-10-25T20:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/bunge-best-hope-seen-with-sugar-bid-from-brazil-real-m-a.html
Bunge Ltd. (BG)  may look to Brazilian
buyers as it seeks options for the sugarcane-milling business
that has been a drag on  earnings  for three years.  The agricultural commodity processor, which bought its
first sugar mill in 2007, said yesterday it will explore a
“full range of options” for the milling division. With Bunge
projecting the unit will be profitable next year, large
Brazilian sugarcane processors such as  Cosan SA (CSAN3)  Industria &
Comercio and Abengoa SA may be interested in all or parts of the
operations to add capacity, said Piper Jaffray Cos., which
estimates a sale could fetch as much as $2.5 billion.  “It’s been a disappointment,” Bryan Agbabian, San
Francisco-based sector head for agricultural equities for
Allianz Global Investors, which oversees more than $400 billion
and owns Bunge shares, said in a phone interview. “They’ve
spent a lot of money on sugar and haven’t shown results. It
would be better, if it’s not working out, to sell it.”  After  missing  analysts’ sales estimates in five of the last
six quarters, Bunge trades at an 81 percent discount to its
revenue, the worst  price-sales ratio  among its agricultural
product peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company, which gets the majority of its revenue from trading and
processing soybeans and grains and has a market value of $11.8
billion, is evaluating alternatives for the sugar business as
prices for the sweetener have risen 19 percent since reaching a
three-year low in July.  Sugar Beginnings  Bunge Chief Executive Officer Soren Schroder, in a phone
interview yesterday, declined to say when the review of the
sugar business will be completed and whether divesting the unit
is among the options the company is considering.  The  White Plains , New York-based company entered the sugar
market as a trader in  2006  and then expanded into cane milling.
In the past five years, Bunge has invested about $3 billion in
building its refining business, Michael Cox, an analyst at Piper
Jaffray, said in an Oct. 1 report.  Bunge’s mills have the capacity to crush more than 20
million metric tons of cane a year, making it the largest
processor of the crop in Brazil after Cosan, Abengoa Bioenergia
and Louis Dreyfus Commodities BV’s sister company Biosev SA,
according to Cox. The mills produce both sugar and ethanol.  Bunge’s sugar unit hasn’t generated annual  operating income 
since at least 2009, and the company said yesterday third-quarter losses at the division more than doubled to $19 million
from a year earlier.  Widening Losses  The losses have been a drag on overall earnings. Bunge  fell
short  of analysts’ third-quarter sales estimates by more than $2
billion. The company now trades at 0.19 times its $62 billion in
 sales  the last 12 months, a cheaper price-sales multiple than
every agricultural products company valued at more than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today, Bunge shares rose 2.9 percent to $82.39, the highest
closing price in five years. The gain was the biggest in six
months.  Schroder, who became CEO in June, said yesterday that
factors out of the company’s control, such as weather and
government fuel policies in  Brazil , have made it “very
difficult” to project results. Shareholders have expressed
concern about the unit’s ability to generate appropriate
returns, he said.  “We have to be realistic,” Schroder said. “We are not
satisfied with the status quo and we are active in pursuing
alternatives that put us in a better spot, whatever that ends up
being. We don’t know that yet.”  Ralph Whitworth  Relational Investors LLC, the activist investor led by
Ralph Whitworth that’s successfully pushed for changes at
companies from Timken Co. to Illinois Tool Works Inc., said in
August it had amassed a 4.1 percent stake in Bunge.  Relational had been prodding Bunge to sell or spin off its
sugar unit and refocus on its core business, according to a
person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
discussing private conversations.  Amid a weakened sugar market and a government cap on
gasoline prices that affects ethanol prices, the economics of
the business have been poor, Ali Miremadi, a  fund manager  at
London-based Taube Hodson Stonex Partners LLP, which held Bunge
shares as of Sept. 30, said in an e-mail.  “Even in the longer-term a refining business such as this
is not as valuable as Bunge’s core agri business,” said
Miremadi, whose firm manages about $5.5 billion in global
equities.  Cosan, Abengoa  After hitting a three-year low on July 16 amid projections
for a surplus, the most-active sugar futures in  New York  have
since risen 19 percent as rain reduced output in Brazil’s main
growing region and a fire at a port in the country destroyed
thousands of tons of sugar.  While potential acquirers may hesitate over the next six to
12 months because of some uncertainty on how the Brazilian
government will act on gasoline prices, “there is an interest
among the larger consolidators to grow capacity” longer-term
given growth dynamics for sugar and ethanol, Piper Jaffray’s Cox
said in a phone interview this week before Bunge’s review was
announced.  Cane processors such as Cosan and Abengoa Bioenergia, a
unit of  Spain ’s  Abengoa SA (ABG) , could be potential acquirers for all
or part of the assets, and a likely scenario could be that a
consortium of buyers emerges to divvy up the mills, Cox said.  Sao Martinho SA (SMTO3)  or Cosan could be “logical acquirers,”
said Agbabian at Allianz.  Price Limit  Representatives for Sao Martinho and Raizen Energia SA,
Cosan’s joint venture that runs its sugar-cane operations, said
the companies don’t comment on speculation.  Abengoa SA said today in an e-mailed statement that it
“denies news stating its involvement in the potential
acquisition of Brazilian sugar mill assets from Bunge.”  Difficult market conditions may limit Bunge’s ability to
extract a high price, said Tom Graves, a New York-based equity
analyst at  Standard & Poor’s .  Bunge shouldn’t sell the sugar division for less than $3
billion, according to Steve Laveson, a fund manager and analyst
at  Portland , Oregon-based Becker Capital Management Inc., which
oversees about $2.4 billion and owns Bunge shares.  The company expanded the business when sugar prices were
higher, and selling when prices are lower would “compound their
mistake,” Laveson said in a phone interview.  The price Bunge originally paid for the mills implies a
current value of about $2.1 billion, while it may cost as much
as $3 billion for a company to build Bunge’s operations from the
ground up,  Ann Duignan , a New York-based analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., wrote in a report yesterday.  “There are no doubt commodity players who will see longer
term value in Bunge’s sugar business,” said Miremadi of Taube
Hodson Stonex. “The assets are sound and current conditions
will not persist indefinitely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  