-- Cameron Seeks as Much as $5 Billion Loan From Banks
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-10-25T15:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/cameron-seeks-as-much-as-5-billion-loan-from-commercial-banks.html
(Corrects status of project in third paragraph.)  Sempra Energy (SRE) ,  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ,
Mitsubishi Corp.,  Nippon Yusen (9101)  K.K. and GDF Suez are seeking as
much as $5 billion in loans from commercial banks for their
Cameron LNG project, people familiar with the matter said.  The funding is part of $7 billion debt financing for the
joint venture to develop a U.S. liquefied natural gas export
project, five people familiar with negotiations said today. The
financing will conclude as early as March and may include $1.5
billion of bonds, said two of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the details are private.  The planned $10 billion terminal in Hackberry, Louisiana,
is awaiting approval from the Department of Energy to export LNG
to countries with which the U.S. doesn’t have free-trade
agreements.  Japan , the world’s biggest LNG importer, is looking
to reduce fuel costs as the country relies on thermal power
generation after the Fukushima disaster in March 2011.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., Muzuho Financial Group
Inc. and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  are among the
commercial banks that may provide as much as $5 billion in
funding, up to half of which would be insured by Nippon Export &
Investment Insurance, the two people said. Japan Bank for
International Cooperation may supply from $1.5 billion to $3
billion, they said.  The initial guidance for the NEXI-covered tranche is less
than 100 basis points more than the London interbank offered
rate and under 200 basis points above the benchmark for the
uncovered portions, while final price will be determined through
bidding, the people said.  The terms of the loan will be set by late November and the
lender will be fixed as early as mid-January, the five people
said.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is the financial adviser
on the deal.  Sempra holds 50.2 percent of the Cameron project while GDF
and Mitsui own 16.6 percent each and a venture between
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and Nippon Yusen has 16.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  