-- Orders Drop Shows U.S. Business Confidence Wanes: Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-10-25T20:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/capital-goods-orders-in-u-s-unexpectedly-declined-in-september.html
Orders to manufacturers unexpectedly
dropped in September and households were more glum in October
for a third consecutive month, showing the  U.S. economy  was
taking a step back heading into the fiscal gridlock that
partially shut down the federal government.  Bookings (CGNOXAI%)  for non-military capital goods excluding aircraft,
which reflect demand for productivity-enhancing equipment like
machinery and electrical gear, decreased 1.1 percent last month,
the second drop in three months, the Commerce Department
reported today in Washington. Other data showed consumer
 sentiment  sank to a 10-month low.  “Like consumers and households, we’re seeing the same kind
of erosion of confidence in the business community,” said
 Millan Mulraine , director of U.S. rates research at TD
Securities USA LLC in  New York , the second-best capital goods
forecaster over the past two years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. “Political uncertainty has reduced the incentive
on the part of U.S. businesses to engage in meaningful  capital
expenditures .”  A rebound in manufacturing, which accounts for about 12
percent of the economy, will depend on how quickly confidence is
restored as lawmakers turn to meeting new budget deadlines in
early 2014. Disappointing gains in employment and the prospect
of a protracted political battle raises the risk that  consumer
spending  will cool heading into the holiday-shopping season.  Shares Rise  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a
record close, as Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft Corp. sales beat
estimates while the drop in  consumer confidence  stoked
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will delay scaling back monetary
stimulus. The  S&P 500  climbed 0.4 percent to 1,759.77 at the
close in New York.  A U.S. slowdown would come as some of the nation’s trading
partners are showing signs of strengthening. Economic growth in
the U.K. accelerated in the third quarter to its fastest pace in
more than three years as the recovery continued across all main
industries, figures from the  Office for National Statistics 
showed today in London.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final consumer
sentiment index for the U.S. decreased to 73.2 in October, the
weakest this year, from 77.5 in September, the group reported.
The index averaged 89 in the five years prior to the recession
that began in December 2007, and 64.2 during the 18-month slump
that ended in June 2009.  Sentiment Slackens  The Michigan sentiment index decreased along with the
Bloomberg  Consumer Comfort Index (COMFCOMF) , which has tumbled each of the
last four weeks. The Bloomberg gauge fell in the period ended
Oct. 20 to minus 36.1, the lowest since February, from minus
34.1.  The decline in capital goods orders for September reported
by the Commerce Department was at odds with most forecasts. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 16 economists called
for a 1 percent gain. The figures also showed a surge in
aircraft demand led to a 3.7 percent jump in total  durable goods 
bookings.  “The more you look into it, the more disappointing it
gets,” said Tim Quinlan, an economist at  Wells Fargo Securities
LLC  in  Charlotte , North Carolina. “It kind of raises doubts
about the sustainability of the manufacturing sector to continue
to underpin economic growth.”  Orders (DGNOXTCH)  excluding transportation equipment, where demand is
often volatile month to month, fell 0.1 percent after a 0.4
percent decrease in August.  Business Investment  Demand for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft
decreased in September after a 0.4 percent gain in August and a
3.5 percent slump in July. Such orders are considered a proxy
for future business investment in computers, electronics and
other equipment.  Shipments of those products, a measure used to calculate
gross domestic product, fell 0.2 percent in September after
rising 1.1 percent the prior month. Sales were down 2.9 percent
over the past three months at an annualized rate, compared with
a 0.9 percent decline at the end of the second quarter.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the biggest maker of construction and
mining equipment, cut its 2013 sales and profit forecast this
week after a slump in orders from commodity producers.  “There are encouraging signs, but there is also a good
deal of uncertainty worldwide as we look ahead to 2014,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said in a
statement.  Today’s report showed bookings for commercial aircraft
increased 57.5 percent in September after a 5.4 percent gain.
Chicago-based Boeing Co. said it received 127 aircraft orders in
September, up from 16 the previous month.  Auto Sales  Demand for motor vehicles has also been a bright spot for
manufacturers, with cars and light trucks  selling  at a 15.2
million annualized rate in September after climbing in August to
the fastest annualized pace since 2007, figures from Ward’s
Automotive Group showed.  “The vehicle fleet has aged, so really vehicle assembly
has nowhere to go but up,” said Mike Englund, chief economist
at Action Economics LLC in Boulder, Colorado, adding that
Boeing, the world’s largest planemaker, is also looking at “a
bottomless pit of orders.”  Ford Motor Co. (F)  earned a $2.3 billion profit in  North
America  in the third quarter and raised its forecasts for pretax
profit and operating margin for the full year. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based company said yesterday its automotive sales rose
12 percent to $33.9 billion. It also earned a rare profit on
overseas operations on rising demand for Focus compact cars in
China and B-Max vans in Europe.  Global Demand  Benton Harbor, Michigan-based  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  is also
seeing signs of stronger demand in some parts of the world,
while progress in the U.S. housing market boosts demand for its
washers and dryers.  “In North America, we are increasing our industry demand
assumption to approximately 9 percent for the year as we
continue to see positive trends in U.S. housing,” Chief
Executive Officer Jeff Fettig said on an Oct. 22 earnings call.
In  Latin America , “we’re now seeing a pickup in demand and we
expect that positive trend to continue during the fourth
quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  