-- Cardinals Defeat Red Sox 4-2 to Even World Series at Game Apiece
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-10-25T04:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/cardinals-defeat-red-sox-4-2-to-even-world-series-at-game-apiece.html
Rookie pitcher Michael Wacha held
the Boston  Red Sox  to two runs for his fourth postseason win and
helped the visiting St. Louis Cardinals even the World Series at
one game each with a 4-2 victory.  Wacha, 22, gave up three hits and struck out six in six
innings for the Cardinals, who host Game 3 in the best-of-seven
series tomorrow at Busch Stadium.  Wacha was relieved by 22-year-old Carlos Martinez, who
allowed one hit and struck out three in two innings before
Trevor Rosenthal, 23, struck out three in the ninth for the save.  “They’re not afraid to pitch,” Cardinals catcher Yadier Molina said of the young pitchers. “We take our cap off to
Wacha.”  Matt Holliday  scored on Molina’s groundout in the fourth
inning to give the Cardinals a 1-0 lead before Boston’s  David Ortiz  hit his second home run of the series and 17th of his
career in the postseason to drive home  Dustin Pedroia  for a 2-1
advantage in the sixth inning.  “He was dominant from the beginning,” Rosenthal said of
Wacha. “He did damage control to keep us in the game.”  Red Sox manager John Farrell said Wacha “was impressive.
He’s a young guy with great stuff.”  The Cardinals scored three times in the seventh inning.
Pete Kozma and Jon Jay reached home on Matt Carpenter’s
sacrifice fly after a pair of Boston errors on the play, and
 Carlos Beltran  drove in Daniel Descalso for a run.  Beltran Injury  Beltran, 36, who injured his ribs in the first game when he
crashed into an outfield wall to rob Ortiz of a home run,
returned to the lineup last night.  “When I left the ballpark yesterday, I had little hope of
being in the lineup,” said Beltran, who is in a World Series
for the first time in his 16-year MLB career. “I worked so hard
to get to this point.”  Losing pitcher  John Lackey  gave up three runs on five hits
and struck out six in 6 1/3 innings for the Red Sox.  “We fully expected this to be a hard-fought series,”
Farrell said. “We’re not surprised by the position we’re in
now.”  The Red Sox were trying to join the  New York  Yankees as the
only teams in major league history to win 10 straight  World
Series  games. The Yankees have done it three times -- 14
straight wins from 1996-2000, 12 in a row from 1927-32 and 10
consecutive victories from 1937-41.  The Red Sox, who had 4-0 sweeps in their previous two World
Series appearances in 2004 and 2007, had not lost since Game 7
of their 1986 defeat by the  New York Mets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net 
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  