-- Carlsberg Foundation Loosens Grip to Give Takeover Room
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-10-25T08:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/carlsberg-foundation-loosens-grip-to-give-brewer-takeover-room.html
The  Carlsberg Foundation (CARLB) , which
controls the world’s fourth-largest beermaker, will relax its
grip to give the Danish brewer room to pursue takeovers and
investments.  The foundation will drop the requirement that it hold at
least 25 percent of the share capital in Carlsberg A/S, the
company said today in a statement. It will continue to control
at least 51 percent of the  voting rights  through preferred A-shares. The brewer also will adopt a dividend policy to pay at
least 25 percent of adjusted net income back to shareholders.  “Carlsberg have been clear they want to buy assets in  Asia 
and this may help with that,” said Jonathan Fyfe, an analyst at
Mirabaud in  London . “They have also been low on dividend
payments and now can lift that up, so it’s good news.”  The foundation last changed its charter in 2007 in a move
that allowed Copenhagen-based Carlsberg to sell shares to help
finance its acquisition of Scottish & Newcastle Plc  assets for
4.3 billion pounds ($7 billion). Carlsberg has identified Asia
as a new growth area to help diversify its geographical exposure
as the Russian government’s crackdown on alcohol sales have hit
revenue in the country.  ‘More Flexibility’  The move “is intended to give Carlsberg more flexibility
as a consolidator,” analysts including  Trevor Stirling  at
Sanford C. Bernstein in London, said in a note to investors.
“It is not a precursor to Carlsberg being sold.”  The beer industry has undergone radical transformation in
the past decade, with the three biggest beer companies
consolidating available assets across the globe. Anheuser-Busch
InBev BV last year spent $20.1 billion to buy the rest of Grupo
Modelo SAB and Heineken NV shelled out $4.5 billion to buy out a
joint venture partner in Asia Pacific Breweries.  Carlsberg shares rose as much as 1.2 percent to 572 kroner
and traded 0.2 percent lower at 10:54 a.m. in Copenhagen,
bringing its gain for this year to 1.8 percent.  Carlsberg doesn’t have any immediate plans to sell shares,
Carlsberg Chief Executive Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said
today, but added that the new flexibility will make the company
more agile in pursuing opportunities.  Carlsberg, whose bonds are graded Baa2 at Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB at  Fitch Ratings , said it will pursue a strategy
that protects its investment-grade rating.  The new dividend policy would have raised Carlsberg’s 2012
pay-out ratio by more than 50 percent, the company said.
Carlsberg will phase in the new dividend policy over a two-year
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  