-- China’s Stocks Fall, Capping Longest Losing Streak Since July
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-25T07:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/china-s-stock-index-futures-rise-indexes-head-for-weekly-loss.html
China’s stocks  fell for a fourth
day, capping the longest stretch of losses in almost three
months, after money-market rates jumped and Great Wall Motor
Co.’s earnings missed analysts’ estimates.  Great Wall Motor tumbled 10 percent to lead declines for
consumer-discretionary companies reliant on economic growth.
 Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519) , the nation’s biggest liquor maker by market
value, slid the most in five weeks after a newspaper reported
high-end liquor prices fell 20 percent.  Shanghai International
Port (Group) Co. (600018)  and Shanghai Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone
Development Co. plunged at least 7 percent after rallying more
than 90 percent since the start of August.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.5 percent to
2,132.96 at the close, the lowest level since Sept. 5. The
nation’s money rates were poised for the biggest weekly jump
since a cash squeeze in June. Investors are cautious this
earnings season against a backdrop where the costs of capital
are rising, said Dragon Life Insurance Co. fund manager Wu Kan.  “Capital costs are still the focus and stocks usually
don’t perform well when they are rising,” said Wu, whose
Shanghai-based company Dragon Life oversees $3.3 billion.  The CSI 300 Index lost 1.3 percent to 2,368.56. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  fell 1.4 percent. The ChiNext index
of small companies dropped 2.1 percent for a weekly loss of 6
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index added 0.5 percent
in  New York  yesterday. Trading volumes on the Shanghai index
were 24 percent lower than the 30-day average today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Company Earnings  The Shanghai Composite slumped 2.8 percent this week, the
most since the five days ended June 28, after money-market rates
jumped and smaller companies slumped on concern valuations were
excessive. The index’s four-day loss is the longest streak since
July 29.  Great Wall Motor, the maker of  China ’s best-selling sport
utility vehicles, tumbled 10 percent to 43.56  yuan . The company
yesterday posted net income of 2.08 billion yuan ($342.1
million) in the third quarter, trailing the median analyst
estimate of 2.33 billion yuan compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors should be disappointed with a quarter-on-quarter
drop in Great Wall’s margins given an increase in revenue,
according to a report from Jefferies Group LLC. The market was
expecting better gross margins for the automaker’s H6 SUV, which
had been a “margin driver,” the report said.  Kweichow Moutai fell 4.9 percent to 136.73 yuan, the
biggest decline since Sept. 17.  Wuliangye Yibin Co. (000858) , China’s
second-biggest liquor maker, lost 2.1 percent to 17.47 yuan.  Money Rates  China’s high-end liquor prices fell about 20 percent from a
year earlier even as the nation enters the peak season for
alcohol purchases, Xi’an Evening News reported. Slumping liquor
prices include products made by Moutai and Wuliangye.  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558) , the country’s biggest maker of  wind
turbines , sank 5.5 percent to 4.66 yuan after posting a loss of
699 million yuan for the first nine months.  Dashang Group Co. climbed 4.7 percent to 29.92 yuan after
the retailer said third-quarter profit more than doubled to 230
million yuan. Chinese listed companies are required to finish
releasing third-quarter earnings by the end of the month.  Money rates have risen after the central bank refrained
from injecting funds through open-market operations. The seven-day repurchase rate increased 1.54 percentage point this week to
5.03 percent as of 3:26 p.m. in Shanghai, according to a daily
fixing by the National Interbank Funding Center. That was the
biggest weekly advance since the period ended June 23. The rate
climbed 24 basis points today. The overnight repo rate rose 1.5
percentage points this week to 4.53 percent.  Port Stocks  “We do not believe that the current rise in the repo rate
is being driven by seasonal factors such as the corporate tax
payment season,” Zhang Zhiwei, an economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc., wrote in a note to clients. “The Chinese government is
well aware of such seasonal factors and could have adjusted its
liquidity management accordingly to offset such factors and
avoid a rise of the repo rate, yet it has allowed repo rates to
rise, which we take as a clear policy signal.”  Shanghai  Port plunged 7 percent to 4.76 yuan, trimming its
gain this year to 81 percent. Shanghai Waigaoqiao tumbled by the
10 percent daily limit to 41.58 yuan after surging 333 percent
this year. Companies containing the name Shanghai jumped since
August when the Commerce Ministry said the government approved
the free-trade zone in the city.  The Shanghai Composite  trades  at 8.4 times projected profit
for the next 12 months, compared with the seven-year average of
15.4, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The index has
rebounded 9.4 percent from its four-year low on June 27 amid
speculation the government will take reform measures to sustain
long-term economic growth.  The odds of a severe slowdown in China or a credit crisis
will fall after a Communist Party summit in November as leaders
tackle local-government debt and financial reforms, a Bloomberg
News survey indicates. Fifteen of 23 analysts said policies
flowing from the meeting will reduce such risks, and a majority
said the plans will help China become a high-income economy by
2030.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  