-- China Starts Prime Loan Rate as New Benchmark in Market Push
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-25T09:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/china-starts-loan-prime-rate-as-new-benchmark-in-market-push.html
China  started publishing a new
lending rate based on quotes from banks and signaled it may
eventually replace the current benchmark set by the People’s
Bank of China, deepening a shift to market-based  interest rates .  China’s interbank funding center, under the PBOC, will
calculate a weighted average “loan prime rate” each day from
costs charged to the best clients by nine major lenders
including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398) , the
Beijing-based central bank said in a statement today. The one-year  rate  is 5.71 percent today, compared with the PBOC-set
benchmark of 6 percent.  The state-set  lending rate  is losing relevance after
authorities in July removed the lower limit on borrowing costs,
giving banks more freedom to set their own rates. The government
is likely to loosen more controls in financial markets over the
next year as Communist Party leaders meet in November to discuss
economic reforms, a Bloomberg News survey showed this month.  “It’s a positive move in rate liberalization,” said Xu Gao, chief economist with Everbright Securities Co. in Beijing,
who previously worked for the  World Bank . “The new rate can be
a very useful indicator for economists and analysts to measure
credit demand and supply on the ground -- a good indicator that
did not exist before.”  Xu said more time is needed to see whether the new rate is
“truly determined by the market,” citing the daily  yuan  fixing
that’s supposed to be based on banks’ quotes “but everyone
knows it’s decided by the central bank.”  Biggest Lenders  The nine banks included in the rate are China’s largest
commercial lenders by assets and are all government-backed. The
other eight banks in the survey are China Construction Bank
Corp., Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.,  Bank of China  Ltd., Bank
of Communications Co., China Citic Bank Corp.,  Shanghai Pudong
Development Bank (600000) , Industrial Bank Co. and China Merchants Bank
Co.  Song Guoqing, an academic member of the PBOC’s monetary
policy advisory committee, said earlier this week that China’s
benchmark interest rates can’t accurately reflect changing
market rates.  The new rate “will promote a smooth transition for the
pricing benchmark from being determined by the central bank to
being decided by the market,” the PBOC said. The loan prime
rate, or LPR, will co-exist with the existing benchmark lending
rate for a “certain period of time,” the PBOC said without
elaborating.  Improve System  China is starting the LPR to “promote interest rate
liberalization, improve the benchmark-rate system in the
financial markets and guide credit-product pricing,” the
central bank said.  Today’s action follows news yesterday that the PBOC and
U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. signed an agreement to
strengthen communication and policy coordination. The PBOC
signaled in July it would eventually free up rates on savings,
which are still capped, as authorities develop a deposit-insurance system.  For now, the central bank can raise or lower  deposit rates 
to adjust monetary policy, and in the long run, the Shanghai
Interbank Offered Rate, or Shibor, should be developed as a
benchmark, Everbright’s Xu said.  “The role of Shibor is still not effective enough to
influence rates between banks and their clients,” Xu said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  