-- Christie Cuts Weight as Heart Risk Contained, Doctor Says
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/christie-loses-weight-as-heart-risk-treated-doctor-says.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
released his medical history yesterday, distributing a doctor’s
letter that said an exam this month was “unremarkable,” noting
his low cholesterol levels and an unspecified  weight loss .  His total cholesterol, an indication of risk for  heart
disease , was 139 mg/dl, the doctor said, a figure that is well
below the federally recommended limit of 200 mg/dl. High-density
lipoprotein, or HDL, considered “good” cholesterol, measured
45; the less-desirable low-density type, called LDL, was 83.  Christie, 51, a Republican who is running for a second term
next month, hasn’t ruled out a 2016 bid for U.S. president.  “He is aware of being overweight and has taken several
measures to address this issue,” Rachana Kulkarni, chief of
cardiology at Somerset Medical Center in Somerville,  New Jersey ,
said in the letter released by the governor’s office. The doctor
didn’t say what Christie weighs, while she said he exercises
regularly and has a healthful diet.  The governor had lap-band surgery on Feb. 16 “and has been
losing weight steadily since then,” Kulkarni said, without
giving a specific figure. “He has no medical limitations and is
fit to serve as the governor of the state of New Jersey.”  Ten days before the operation, Christie responded to
criticism of his weight by Connie Mariano, a former White House
doctor, calling her a “hack” who should “shut up.” The
governor didn’t publicly disclose the surgery until May, saying
he had considered it a family matter.  Blood Pressure  Christie was diagnosed with hypertension two years ago and
asthma 30 years ago. Each is “well controlled under his current
medical regimen,” the doctor said, reporting his  blood pressure 
as 110 over 70.  An asthma attack led to difficulty breathing in June 2011,
as Christie was heading to a public appearance, and he was
driven to Somerset for treatment. His weight, he said later,
“exacerbates everything,” and he said obesity was “one of the
major struggles of my life.”  Christie has had an almost 30-point lead in voter surveys
heading into the Nov. 5 election against his Democratic
challenger, state Senator Barbara Buono of Metuchen. The
candidates in a debate on Oct. 8 said they would make their
medical information available.  Buono Health  Buono, 60, on Oct. 15 released a letter from Jeffrey L.
Carson, her doctor, stating she was in “excellent health” with
a blood pressure of 112/70 and a pulse of 78 beats per minute.  The senator, a slender woman who gave birth to four
children and is the stepmother of two more, sticks to a running
regimen. Her elevated cholesterol of 268 mg/dl is offset by a
very high level of the “good” variety, said Carson, who
teaches medicine at  Rutgers University , in the letter.  Buono takes vitamins and aspirin, the letter said. Kulkarni
didn’t say whether the governor takes any medicine.  Christie’s blood tests in September showed normal
electrolytes, kidney function, liver function and blood sugars,
according to the doctor. An exam on Oct. 19 showed a heart rate
of 68 beats per minute. Cardiac tests from 2012 and 2013 were
normal, Kulkarni said.  “After he turned 50, Governor Christie has taken a very
proactive role in his health,” Kulkarni said. She said the
governor’s four-day exercise regimen includes aerobics and
resistance training for an hour.  In the time since he had his stomach banded to reduce its
capacity, Christie “has been very compliant with his treatment
and follow-ups,” Kulkarni said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 