-- Citigroup Said to Lead IPO of Mexico Agriculture Bank BanBajio
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-10-25T17:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/citigroup-said-to-lead-ipo-of-mexico-agriculture-bank-banbajio.html
Mexican lender Banco del Bajio SA
hired Citigroup Inc.,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Morgan Stanley and
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA for an initial public
offering, two people with direct knowledge of the plans said.  The offering will probably take place next year, according
to the people, who asked not to be identified because the deal
is in the preliminary stages and the timing and size haven’t
been set. Citigroup will serve as global coordinator on the
transaction, one of the people said. Banco del Bajio, based in
the central Mexican city of Leon, asked investment banks earlier
this year to assemble proposals for the sale, people familiar
with the matter said at the time.  A press official at BanBajio, as the bank is known, declined 
to comment on the hiring of investment bankers for an IPO. Angeles 
Meraz, a press official with Citigroup’s Banamex unit, declined to 
comment, as did Rodolfo Benitez, a press official for BBVA’s 
Bancomer unit, Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, 
and Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   In March 2012,  Banco Sabadell SA (SAB) ,  Spain ’s fifth-biggest
bank, said it sold its 20 percent stake in BanBajio for 156.6
million euros ($216 million), valuing the company at about $1.1
billion. An investment unit of Temasek Holdings Ltd. bought 13.3
percent as part of the deal, while the rest went to existing
shareholders.  The lender, founded in 1994, focuses on loans to small- and
mid-sized businesses, as well as financing for the Mexican
agriculture industry, according to an e-mailed report from the
company dated August 2013. BanBajio has 284 locations in 28
Mexican states with almost 350,000 clients, according to the
presentation, which cited data through June.  BanBajio’s net income rose 29 percent to 519.3 million
pesos ($40 million) in the first half of 2013 from the same
period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  