-- Cocoa Butter Said to Fall as Christmas Buying Ends
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-25T08:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/cocoa-butter-falls-as-chocolate-makers-end-buying-for-christmas.html
(Corrects timing of processing in fourth paragraph.)  Cocoa butter costs are declining as
demand to make chocolates for year-end holidays ended, according
to three traders familiar with the sales.  The so-called butter ratio is 2.6 to 2.7 times the price of
cocoa futures on NYSE Liffe for delivery in the first three
months of next year, said the traders, who asked not to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.
The ratio on Sept. 27 rose to 2.74, the highest since 2008,
according to KnowledgeCharts, a unit of Commodities Risk
Analysis in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania .  Chocolate manufacturers slowed purchases waiting for lower
prices before a pick-up in demand for Easter in April, the
traders said. Processing of beans in  Europe  is historically the
highest in the fourth quarter for Halloween and Christmas
holidays, according to data from the European Cocoa Assocation,
a Brussels-based industry group.  Cocoa beans yield butter, which accounts for about 20
percent of the weight of a chocolate bar, and powder, used to
make soft drinks and ice-cream. Butter costs gained as demand
improved in developed markets. Processing in Europe rose 4.7
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier after falling
16 percent in the third quarter 2012, ECA data show.  Global chocolate sales will climb 6.2 percent to a record
$117 billion next year, estimates Euromonitor International
Ltd., a consumer research company in  London . Chocolate prices
will probably rise this Christmas because of higher cocoa butter
and sugar costs, according to Francisco Redruello, a senior food
analyst at Euromonitor.  Cocoa prices gained 19 percent in London this year as
demand is set to outpace supply by 173,000 tons in the season
started this month, according to Macquarie Group Ltd. Sugar
rallied 11 percent last month, the biggest gain since 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  