-- Colombia Holds Policy Rate at 3.25% as Growth Accelerates
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-10-25T17:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/colombia-holds-policy-rate-at-3-25-as-growth-accelerates.html
Colombia held  borrowing costs 
unchanged for a seventh straight month as signs of a recovery
persuaded policy makers that the economy doesn’t need more
stimulus.  Banco de la Republica, led by Governor Jose Dario Uribe,
left its policy rate at 3.25 percent, the lowest in Latin
America, as forecast by 31 of 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The other economist expected a quarter-point cut to the record
low of 3 percent, where the rate was held between April 2010 and
February 2011.  Colombia reduced its key rate seven times between July last
year and March, the deepest cuts in the region, as the central
bank took advantage of the slowest  inflation (COCPIYOY)  since the 1950s to
provide extra stimulus. With growth accelerating back toward its
full potential rate, policy makers will start to tighten
monetary policy early next year, according to Daniel Velandia,
head analyst at Credicorp Capital’s Colombia unit.  “The central bank will start to withdraw stimulus in the
first quarter of 2014, with the economy accelerating in November
and December on the back of increased consumer and public
spending,” Velandia said in phone interview before the policy
meeting. “Exports are picking up, and inflation is going to
gradually accelerate to 3 percent.”  Colombia will raise the policy rate to 4 percent by next
September, starting with a quarter point increase in March,
according to a central bank monthly survey of economists
published Oct. 11. Chile and  Mexico  both cut borrowing costs in
the past two months, while  Brazil  has raised rates to rein in
consumer prices.  Downside Risks   At the central bank’s August board meeting, some policy
makers, including Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas, argued for
a rate cut, citing “downside risks” to growth, and the chance
that the U.S. would tighten monetary policy.  Cardenas, who chairs the central bank’s policy committee,
in September dropped his call for a cut after second-quarter
growth exceeded expectations and the U.S. Federal Reserve said
it would continue its asset purchase program at the same pace.  In an Oct. 14 interview, Cardenas said a low inflation rate
means Colombia should maintain its current policy for “some
time.”  The  economy  grew 4.2 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, faster than forecast by all 31 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg .  Retail sales  increased 6.9 percent in August from
a year earlier, the biggest gain since March 2012, while exports
climbed 8.9 percent led by coal and oil.  Inflation stayed below the 3 percent midpoint of the target
range for the 11th consecutive month in September, when it was
unchanged at 2.27 percent. In February, the inflation rate
dropped to 1.83 percent, its lowest level in six decades.  Even as household demand picks up, industrial production
remains weak. Output fell 3.9 percent in August from the year
earlier, more than forecast by all 21 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Manufacturers have been hurt by a 26 percent gain in the
peso over the past five years, the biggest rally among major
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the South
Korean won and the Chilean peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  