-- ConocoPhillips, Santos LNG Projects Will Swap Gas to Lower Costs
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-10-25T00:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/conocophillips-santos-lng-projects-will-swap-gas-to-lower-costs.html
ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Santos Ltd. (STO) ,
developing separate liquefied natural gas projects in Australia
at a cost of more than $40 billion, agreed to share pipelines
and exchange gas to reduce costs and duplication.  The projects in Queensland state will build two pipeline
connection points and sign gas-swap agreements, according to a
joint statement today from Adelaide-based Santos and
ConocoPhillips’s partner, Sydney-based  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)   ConocoPhillips and Origin are building a A$24.7 billion
($24 billion) project to liquefy natural gas for shipment to
Asia, while Santos is developing an $18.5 billion development.
Australia, forecast to become the world’s largest supplier of
LNG with seven projects under construction, is facing rising
costs that threaten expansions.  Without the agreement, the projects would need 140
kilometers (87 miles) of additional pipelines and multiple
connection points to send their gas to plants on Curtis Island
for processing for export, according to the statement.  Both the  Australia  Pacific LNG project, led by
ConocoPhillips and Origin, and the Gladstone LNG venture,
operated by Santos, are due to begin exports in 2015. BG Group
Plc is building a third LNG project in Queensland, and Arrow
Energy Ltd., owned by Royal Dutch Shell Plc and PetroChina Co.,
is considering a fourth development.  Santos and BG’s Australian unit, QGC Pty, reached an
agreement in July to link pipelines on the Queensland mainland
and on Curtis Island, where the plants that process coal-seam
gas into LNG are based. Connecting the pipelines will allow the
developments to buy, sell and swap gas at those points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  