-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Fell to 10-Month Low in October
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-10-25T14:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-dropped-to-10-month-low-in-october.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
dropped in October to a 10-month low, showing the reopening of
the federal government failed to reassure households.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final consumer
 sentiment  index decreased to 73.2, the weakest this year, from
77.5 in September. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
called for a decline to 75 compared with a preliminary reading
of 75.2.  The government’s partial closing prompted Americans to turn
more pessimistic about the economy, whose recovery continues to
be uneven. Disappointing gains in employment and the prospect of
a protracted budget battle into 2014 raises the risk that
 consumer spending  will cool as the holiday-shopping season
approaches.  “This political uncertainty is going to slow any momentum
we’ve had in the past few months,” said  Millan Mulraine ,
director of U.S. rates research at TD Securities USA LLC in New
York, who projected the sentiment index would drop to 73. “If
we come into December without any progress on a funding bill,
consumers will start sitting on their hands and that will mean a
slower rebound in spending.”  Estimates of the 52 economists surveyed ranged from 71 to
78. The index averaged 89 in the five years prior to the
recession that began in December 2007, and 64.2 during the 18-month slump that ended in June 2009.  Shares Rise  Stocks were little changed as better-than-projected revenue
from Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft Corp. offset the drop in
sentiment. The  S&P 500  rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,753.47 at
10:35 a.m. in New York.  The Michigan sentiment survey’s  current conditions  gauge,
which measures Americans’ view of their personal finances,
decreased to 89.9 from 92.6 last month.  The barometer of  expectations  six months from now dropped
to 62.5 this month, the weakest in almost two years, from 67.8
in September.  The Michigan sentiment index decreased along with the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, which has tumbled each of the
last four weeks. The Bloomberg gauge fell in the period ended
Oct. 20 to minus 36.1, the lowest since February, from minus
34.1.  Stronger gains in hiring would help boost spending. The
 unemployment rate  dropped 0.1 percentage point to 7.2 percent,
the lowest since November 2008, Labor Department figures showed
this week. Employers added 148,000 workers to payrolls in
September, fewer than projected in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Home Values  At the same time, rising home values are helping mend
balance sheets for some Americans.  House prices  increased 8.5
percent in the year ended August, the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  said earlier this week.  Some companies are seeing the results of customers having
to curb spending on discretionary items like dining out when
faced with having to replace an aging automobile or other big-ticket item.  “Consumer sentiment is guarded at best,” said Wyman T.
Roberts, chief executive officer and president of  Brinker
International Inc. (EAT) , the Dallas-based owner of restaurant
franchises such as Chili’s and  Olive Garden , in an Oct. 23
earnings call. “While employment rates are showing signs of
improvement, casual dining in particular is being impacted by
struggles many young adults are facing.”  Retailers will probably have subdued sales in the coming
weeks, according to  Mark Vitner , a senior economist in
Charlotte,  North Carolina , for  Wells Fargo Securities LLC , the
top forecasting firm of retail sales for the past two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I think holiday retail sales are going to have a hard
time rising much more than 3 to 4 percent,” Vitner said. “The
economy had less momentum going into the government shutdown
than we thought.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  