-- CPSC Head to Join Nelson Mullins: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/cpsc-head-to-join-nelson-mullins-business-of-law.html
Inez Tenenbaum , the chairman of the
U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission since 2009, is joining
Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP on Dec. 1. She will work
with the  law firm ’s product safety, risk prevention and
regulatory practice group.  Tenenbaum was sworn in as head of the CPSC after the agency
had been without a leader for three years. During her tenure,
she directed the implementation of the 2008 Consumer Product
Safety Improvement Act and created the Office of Education,
Global Outreach and Small Business Ombudsman.  She also oversaw completion of more than 50 rules, expanded
CPSC’s marketplace-surveillance program, increased staffing at
the Office of Import Surveillance and strengthened a partnership
with  U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection , the law firm said.  “Inez brings considerable experience to our products group
and will be able to guide clients through many complicated
matters involving product safety,” managing partner Jim Lehman
said in a statement.  Tenenbaum, a former  South Carolina  superintendent of
education, also will provide support to EducationCounsel LLC,
Nelson Mullins’s education affiliate. It was co-founded in 2008
by former U.S. Secretary of Education Richard W. Riley, a
partner in the firm.  At Nelson Mullins, Tenenbaum will advise clients on
regulatory matters, including risk assessment and management,
regulatory oversight, product reporting, recalls and litigation.  Nelson Mullins has more than 500 attorneys and other
professionals at offices in  Washington , Florida, Georgia,
Massachusetts,  North Carolina , South Carolina,  Tennessee  and
West Virginia.  Mayer Brown Adds London Banking and Finance Duo  Mayer Brown LLP added two banking and finance partners in
 London . Trevor Wood, a finance lawyer, was previously at Berwin
Leighton Paisner LLP. Mayank Gupta is joining from White & Case
LLP.  Wood’s practice includes syndicated and bilateral lending,
leveraged finance and structured finance, the firm said. He acts
for senior and mezzanine finance providers and borrowers, and
has experience advising on transactions with an emerging market
element to them. He also has advised on restructurings in
emerging markets and across  Europe  and  Asia .  Gupta has experience advising financial institutions and
multinational companies on financing transactions, including
leveraged finance, corporate finance and sovereign lending. He
specializes in  emerging markets .  “The emerging markets are a key focus for this firm,”
Dominic Griffiths, head of Mayer Brown’s banking and finance
group in London, said in a statement. “Trevor and Mayank coming
in as a team in this area substantially enhances our
capability.”  Mayer Brown has lawyers at offices in Asia, Europe and the
Americas.  Linklaters Hires Three Dispute Resolution Partners in Paris  Former Darrois Villey Maillot Brochier lawyers Matthieu de
Boisseson and Pierre Duprey and Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP lawyer Roland Ziade joined Linklaters LLP as partners in
Paris.  The attorneys advise on international arbitration and have
experience developing global dispute resolution strategies.  “We have taken another step forward in building our
International Arbitration platform,” Arnaud de La Cotardiere,
litigation partner and member of Linklaters’ executive
committee, and Marc Harvey, global head of the firm’s litigation
and arbitration practice, said in a statement.  Linklaters has lawyers in 29 cities in Europe, Asia, the
Americas and the Middle East.  Kasowitz Benson Hires Government Affairs Lawyer Heilbrun  Mark Heilbrun joined Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Friedman
LLP as a partner in the Washington government-affairs practice
group. He was most recently a partner at Edwards Wildman Palmer
LLP.  Heilbrun, who has experience with cyber-security and
national security issues, will advise clients on regulations and
public policy, cross-border financial matters, international
trade and taxation, and intellectual property, the firm said. He
will also represent clients in government enforcement actions
and related regulatory oversight.  Earlier in his career, Heilbrun was staff director and
general counsel for the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary,
where he negotiated and drafted post-9/11 national security
legislation, the firm said. He also was legal adviser to the
National Security Council.  Kasowitz Benson has more than 375 lawyers at offices in  New
York , Washington, Silicon Valley,  Los Angeles , Houston, Atlanta,
 San Francisco , Miami and Newark, New Jersey.  Barnes & Thornburg Adds Partner Mina Amir-Mokri in Chicago  Employee benefits and executive compensation attorney Mina
Amir-Mokri joined Barnes & Thornburg LLP’s  Chicago  office as a
partner in the corporate department. She was previously a
partner at Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP.  Amir-Mokri represents clients in the negotiation, design,
and drafting of executive compensation arrangements, stock
option and other equity plans,  retirement plans , employment and
other agreements. She also has handled benefits and compensation
matters in mergers and acquisitions, and conducted internal
investigations, the firm said.  “We are pleased to have a seasoned and well-regarded
employee benefits attorney such as Mina join our corporate
department in Chicago,” Mark E. Rust, managing partner of
Barnes & Thornburg’s Chicago office, said in a statement. “Her
wealth of experience in advising clients on benefits and
compensation matters in mergers and acquisitions and in the
insolvency and bankruptcy areas will be a great asset to our
clients both locally and nationally.”  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 600 attorneys and other
legal professionals at its offices in Atlanta, Delaware,
Chicago, Indiana, Los Angeles, Michigan, Minneapolis, Ohio and
Washington.  Moore & Van Allen Adds Bankruptcy Member in Charlotte office  Moore & Van Allen PLLC said Zachary H. Smith joined the
bankruptcy and financial restructuring team as a member in
Charlotte, North Carolina. He was previously with  O’Melveny &
Myers LLP .  Smith represents investors, creditors, lenders and debtors
in in-court and out-of-court restructurings, including complex
matters pertaining to Puerto Rico.  Moore & Van Allen has almost 300 attorneys and offices in
Charlotte and Research Triangle, North Carolina, and Charleston,
South Carolina.  Dickinson Wright Adds to Grand Rapids Office With Two Members  Dickinson Wright PLLC said Scott G. Smith and Roger A.
Swets joined the firm’s Grand Rapids, Michigan, office as
members. They were both previously at Clark Hill Plc.  Smith concentrates on municipal law, municipal finance law,
environmental law and condemnation law. He has experience with
local governments and their endeavors, and represents as general
legal counsel communities including Allegan, Grand Haven,
Mackinaw City, Mount Pleasant and Otsego, the firm said.  Swets practices public sector finance law, acting as bond
counsel, underwriter’s counsel and bank counsel in tax-exempt
financings. He also works on bond and finance matters, the firm
said.  Dickinson Wright has more than 350 lawyers at offices in
Detroit, Troy, Grand Rapids,  Ann Arbor , Lansing and Saginaw,
Michigan; Columbus, Ohio; Las Vegas; Nashville, Tennessee;
Phoenix and Washington. The firm has more than 30 lawyers in
Toronto.  Firm News  Mayer Brown’s Masur named Partner-in-Charge in Washington  Mayer Brown LLP appointed Daniel A. Masur partner-in-charge
of the firm’s 160-lawyer Washington office. Masur, a member of
the corporate and securities practice, succeeds Michael E. Lackey Jr., who was named a co-leader of the global litigation
and dispute resolution practice.  “Dan has been a strong contributor to the success of our
Washington office as one of the most highly regarded lawyers in
the outsourcing field,” Mayer Brown Chairman Paul W. Theiss
said in a statement. “His proven skills as a lawyer and his
demonstrated ability as a leader and manager make him the ideal
choice for this vital role.”  Masur has represented clients in  information technology  and
business process sourcing transactions. Before joining Mayer
Brown in 1997, Masur was general counsel of I-Net Inc.  Mayer Brown has lawyers at offices in the Americas, Asia
and Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  