-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall; Weekly Bond Sales Reach $37 Billion
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-25T21:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-weekly-bond-sales-exceed-35-billion.html
A measure of U.S. company credit
risk declined as investors watch economic data to gauge when the
 Federal Reserve  will begin reducing monetary stimulus. Debt
sales this week more than doubled to $37 billion.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.6 basis point to 71.7 basis points at 5:06 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Orders for U.S. equipment such as computers and machinery
declined in September for the second time in three months as
business spending was weakening ahead of the partial government
shutdown. Investors are looking to the Federal Open Market
Committee’s Oct. 29-30 meeting for direction on when it will
begin cutting back on monthly asset purchases, according to
 Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at New York-based GMP Securities LLC.  “The market seems keen to hold tight until next week’s Fed
meeting,” Miller wrote in an e-mail. “While the meeting won’t
deliver a policy change, it will deliver the current sentiment
among FOMC members about the state of the economy.”  Bookings for non-military capital goods excluding aircraft
decreased 1.1 percent, the Commerce Department reported today in
 Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for
a 1 percent gain.  Bond Sales  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and climbs as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bond offerings this week increased from last week’s $17.6
billion and compare with a 2013 weekly average of $29.6 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the
largest U.S. mortgage lender, raised $3.5 billion in a two-part
issue and Amsterdam-based ABN Amro Bank NV sold $2.5 billion of
fixed- and floating-rate bonds.  Yields on bonds from the most creditworthy to the riskiest
borrowers in the U.S. fell to 3.88 percent on Oct. 23, the
lowest since June 18, before reaching 3.9 percent yesterday,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Borrowing
costs decreased from 3.95 percent on Oct. 18.  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
rather than government debentures fell to 209 basis points
yesterday from 211 basis points, the index data show.  High Yield  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, fell 2.1 basis points to 345.8 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries rose 0.2 basis point to 125.4 basis
points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade,
or junk-rated, debt rose 0.3 basis point to 671.6.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  