-- Crude Rises for Second Day on Durable Goods Orders
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-10-25T19:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/crude-fluctuates-as-u-s-capital-goods-orders-decline.html
West  Texas  Intermediate crude rose
for a second day, paring the sixth decline in seven weeks, as
orders for  durable goods  increased the most in three months and
the U.S. stock markets gained.  Prices advanced 0.8 percent after the Commerce Department
said bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
increased 3.7 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index extended
a third straight weekly gain as revenue from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  topped estimates. WTI capped a third weekly loss
as rising production boosted U.S. crude inventories.  “The strong durable goods number would suggest strong
demand for oil and that’s giving the market some support,” said
Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
 Chicago . “What the bulls are hanging onto is that we probably
will get a little bit of a rally because the market is pretty
oversold. The fundamentals seem to get more bearish every day
from the supply side.”  WTI for December delivery gained 74 cents to settle at
$97.85 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Trading was
40 percent lower than the 100-day average. The weekly decline
was 2.9 percent. Crude is down 13 percent from the 2013 high of
$112.24 reached in intraday trading on Aug. 28.  Brent for December settlement declined 6 cents to $106.93 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark’s premium to WTI narrowed to $9.08 from
yesterday’s $9.88. The spread was $11.67 on Oct. 22, the widest
since April.  Forecast Exceeded  The gain in durable goods orders exceeded the 2.3 percent
advance that was forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A
gauge of demand for capital equipment slumped 1.1 percent, a
sign companies pulled back ahead of the partial federal
government shutdown.  “The durable goods report is good,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Pushing back above $100 in the coming days is
going to be difficult considering the idea that we still have a
lot of supplies.”  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  rose 0.2 percent to extend the October advance
to 4.4 percent. Amazon.com surged as much as 11 percent as
consumers flocked to the largest online retailer ahead of the
holiday shopping season. Microsoft jumped as much as 7.6
percent.  “We are moving with the equities,” said Bill Baruch, a
senior market strategist at Iitrader.com in Chicago.  Rising Inventories  U.S. crude  inventories  climbed 5.25 million barrels last
week to 379.8 million, the most since June 28, the Energy
Information Administration said on Oct. 23. They have climbed
24.2 million barrels, or 6.8 percent, in the last five weeks,
according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  Production grew 6.3 percent last week to 7.9 million
barrels a day, the most since March 1989. A combination of
horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has
unlocked supplies in shale formations in North Dakota, Texas and
other states.  “Inventories are pretty bearish,” said Tom Finlon,
Jupiter, Florida-based director of Energy Analytics Group LLC.
“We still have more downside.”  Saudi Arabia’s crude exports are “starting to go down” as
the largest member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries seeks to reduce the chance of a glut, said Roy Mason,
the founder of Oil Movements. Shipments from the group,
excluding Angola and  Ecuador , will slide 0.5 percent to 23.8
million barrels a day in the four weeks to Nov. 9, according to
the Halifax, England-based tanker-tracking consultant.  Gasoline Slips  Gasoline fell as the reopening of  Scotland ’s only refinery
may increase supplies available for export to the U.S. from
Europe. Ineos Group Holdings SA announced today it will
immediately restart Scotland’s Grangemouth petrochemical site
and start up the adjacent refinery after forging a deal with the
unionized workforce.  November gasoline slid 0.25 cent to $2.5871 a gallon on the
Nymex, extending the weekly loss to 3.2 percent.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
December was 18.8 percent, down from 20.6 percent yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 317,820
contracts as of 2:35 p.m. It totaled 529,559 contracts
yesterday, 9.5 percent lower than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.78 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  