-- Taiwan’s CTBC Pursuing Overseas Profit May Buy Mainland Bank
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-10-25T08:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/ctbc-in-talks-to-buy-chinese-bank-stake-to-boost-overseas-profit.html
CTBC Financial (2891)  Holding Co.,  Taiwan ’s
third-largest publicly traded financial firm by market value, is
in talks to buy shares in a Chinese bank as the island’s lenders
seek profits outside their crowded home market.  “We may buy the stake in the target only or also let them
buy a stake in us,” Rachael Kao, a Taipei-based spokeswoman at
CTBC Financial, said in a phone interview today, declining to
name the lenders her firm is negotiating with. “We’ve been in
touch and in discussion with some Chinese banks.”  CTBC Financial wants to increase the share of pretax profit
generated overseas to as much as 40 percent of total earnings in
the next three years from about 20 percent now, Kao said. The
company already runs the largest  overseas banking network  among
its domestic rivals, with 68 outlets as of June, data from
Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission show.  Taiwan is urging its 39 local banks to expand outside their
home market of 23 million people, where competition has squeezed
lending margins to the second-narrowest in the Asia-Pacific
region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Financial
institutions are also following their customers abroad as
manufacturers expand on the mainland and in Southeast Asia.  Shares of CTBC Financial lost 0.3 percent to NT$19.70 in
Taipei. The stock has climbed 25 percent this year, compared
with the benchmark Taiex Index’s 8.4 percent gain.  “Investors and banks are all eyeing the mainland market,”
Tom Liang, a Taipei-based analyst at  Masterlink Securities
Corp. (2856) , said by phone today. “As economic ties between Taiwan
and  China  are increasing, it is positive to see Taiwanese banks
getting a bigger presence on the mainland. This will boost their
profit.”  Larger Population  Net interest margins at Taiwan’s banks average 1.38
percent, the lowest rate of 16 territories after  Japan ’s 1.32
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Banks on the mainland,
where deposit and lending rates are regulated by the government,
have an average margin of 3.24 percent.  China, with a  population  more than 50 times larger than
Taiwan’s, is attracting the island’s banks as relations warm
since Ma Ying-jeou became Taiwanese president in 2008. Governed
separately since a civil war six decades ago, the two sides
signed their first trade accord, the Economic Cooperation
Framework Agreement, in 2010 to promote banking services and
cross-strait investment.  Eleven Taiwanese banks have established profitable branches
on the mainland as of August, data from the FSC show. CTBC Bank
currently has a branch in  Shanghai  and a representative office
in Beijing.  ‘Growth Driver’  “Overseas operations are the key growth driver for
Taiwanese banks,” Alan Lee, a Taipei-based spokesman at Cathay
Financial Holding Co., said by phone Oct. 21. “Taiwan is a
small island with intense competition caused by overbanking. We
need to target the larger markets in Southeast Asia and China.”  Cathay  United Bank , a unit of Cathay Financial, is seeking
to boost its overseas pretax profit to 60 percent of the total
in the next three to five years, Lee said. That compares with
about 40 percent in the first half of this year.  The banking unit, the most profitable Taiwanese lender in
China, plans to open a mainland branch in each of the next three
years, Lee said. Cathay United Bank reported NT$217 million of
pretax profit from its mainland branch in the first eight months
of this year, FSC data show.  Ownership Limit  Taiwan’s lenders are limited to 20 percent stakes in banks
across the strait. The cap on Chinese banks’ ownership of some
lenders on the island is set to rise to the same level, from the
current 5 percent, if a new agreement on trade in services is
approved by the parliament in Taipei.  Fubon Financial Holding Co. (2881) , Taiwan’s second-biggest
publicly traded financial company by market value, said in
December it will buy 80 percent of First Sino Bank for 5.65
billion  yuan  ($929 million). Because First Sino is a joint
venture between mainland and Hong Kong owners, it’s not subject
to the 20 percent limit.  Taiwan’s banks have followed their corporate customers to
the mainland as manufacturers took advantage of warming
relations to tap into a cheaper labor pool in the People’s
Republic.  As worker costs rise and those companies look beyond the
mainland to Southeast Asia, the lenders are following. Taiwan’s
banks have almost half of their overseas outlets in the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations , where foreign direct
investment from the island grew fivefold last year.  ‘Competitive Edge’  “Taiwanese banks with strong U.S. dollar funding have a
competitive edge in expanding in  Southeast Asia ,” Hsu Chung, a
Taipei-based analyst at Credit Suisse, said in a phone interview
on Oct. 22. “They can lend to corporates when other banks are
tight with funding.”  That may push the lenders’ overseas profits to a record
this year. Their pretax income from abroad reached NT$54.6
billion as of August, compared with NT$74.4 billion, or 31
percent of the total, in all of 2012,  Financial Supervisory
Commission  data showed.  After riding out waves of bad debt on corporate credit in
2000,  consumer lending  in 2005 and international syndicated
loans in 2008-2009, Taiwan’s banks are primed for international
growth, Hsu said.  “Taiwanese banks have just recovered, and can now spare
the time and the capital to focus on overseas expansion,” he
said. “They can now focus on marching overseas in the next five
to 10 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  