-- Detroit Banker Buckfire Says Cuts to Bonds, Pensions Fair
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-10-25T16:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/detroit-banker-buckfire-says-cuts-to-bonds-pensions-fair.html
Detroit ’s proposal to cut payments
to bondholders and pensioners by the same amount is fair and
differs from previous attempts by distressed cities to
restructure, investment banker Kenneth Buckfire told the judge
overseeing the city’s record-breaking bankruptcy.  Buckfire was the third of five witnesses the city said it
will present at a federal trial to decide whether Detroit can
remain under court protection. Lawyers for retired and current
city workers have attacked the decision by state-appointed
emergency manager Kevyn Orr to put Detroit into bankruptcy,
where creditors can’t try to seize assets or file suits that
disrupt reorganization efforts.  “It was fair because it treated our unsecured creditors
exactly the same,” Buckfire said today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in Detroit. He was responding to a question from an attorney for
retirees challenging a proposal to subject pensioners to the
same cuts as unsecured bondholders.  Other cities “have tended to treat one group of creditors
more favorably than others,” Buckfire said. “We decided the
city should be impartial in terms of how we would treat
creditors.”  Yesterday, Buckfire, the co-president of  Stifel Financial
Corp. (SF) ’s Miller Buckfire & Co., said that a 2009 deal with swaps
investors threatened the city’s best source of cash in the
months before it filed the biggest municipal bankruptcy.  Casino Taxes  That deal gave the swaps investors power to lock up much of
the $180 million a year that Detroit gets from taxes on its
casinos, Buckfire testified yesterday. That put added pressure
on the city, which had only a $7 million cushion on a budget of
more than $1 billion, he said.  Buckfire also testified that bondholders demanded full
repayment during negotiations designed to avert a bankruptcy,
relying on an assumption that general obligation bonds were safe
because any municipality that issued them was required to raise
taxes to repay the debt.  In its June proposal to creditors, the city didn’t accept
the claims by either pension creditors or general obligation
bondholders that each had a special status under  Michigan  law
and should be paid in full, Buckfire said in court.  Under that restructuring proposal, made before the city
filed bankruptcy in July, Orr said he would pay all unsecured
debt holders, including retirees and general obligation
bondholders, pennies on the dollar.  Team Leader  Buckfire is being questioned by lawyers for unions and
retirees trying to get the bankruptcy case thrown out. Buckfire,
who grew up in the suburbs outside Detroit, said he has led the
city’s financial restructuring team since January.  He has followed Detroit’s financial troubles since it was
downgraded by bond-rating firms in 2009, he said. Last year, the
state hired him to do a 60-day review of Detroit’s finances. The
city later agreed to hire Miller Buckfire after the state
required local officials to bring on a financial adviser as a
requirement to get more aid.  In opening statements Oct. 23, lawyers for the retirees and
city workers said Detroit hasn’t met the standard set out in
Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  to remain under court
protection.  The law says the city must show that it’s insolvent, that
it’s entitled under state law to file for bankruptcy, that it
tried to negotiate with creditors or was unable to do so, and
that it intends to file a plan to adjust its debts.  Governor  Rick Snyder , who testified under oath in a
videotaped deposition this month, is prepared to testify in
court Monday, said Matthew Schneider, a lawyer with the state.
Snyder, a Republican, is being called as a witness by the  United
Auto Workers , which represents some city workers and is trying
to show that the bankruptcy filing wasn’t in good faith.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit at
   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  