-- Detroit Council Protests Proposed Barclays Loan to Unwind Swaps
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-10-25T17:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/detroit-council-protests-proposed-barclays-loan-to-unwind-swaps.html
A proposed $350 million loan from
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  to Detroit will head to a state board for
consideration under protest from the City Council.  The council approved a resolution today urging U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to turn down the tax-backed loan,
negotiated by Kevyn Orr, the city’s state-appointed emergency
manager. Orr said the financing, which the judge also must
approve, will save the city $60 million and free revenue to help
the former auto-manufacturing center.  The council Oct. 21 unanimously rejected the Barclays loan,
which under state law gave it seven days to propose an
alternative to Orr’s deal, which would be used to unwind the
swaps tied to pension-related debt to save $60 million and free
money for blight removal, public safety and infrastructure
improvements. The council didn’t devise another plan, and
instead passed the protest statement.  The seven-day requirement didn’t give the council time to
come up with an alternative, although “we worked hard to see if
we could get a better deal,” president Saunteel Jenkins said
today.  “There really is no choice; there really is no
democracy,” Jenkins said.  For Approval  Detroit , which in recent years has been plagued by
unreliable buses, broken street lights and long waits for police
and ambulances, sought protection from its creditors July 18.
With more than $18 billion of obligations, it represents the
biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy filing.  Rhodes is considering arguments on whether Detroit
qualifies for protection under Chapter 9 of U.S. bankruptcy law.
Any financing plan would need the judge’s approval before it
could be implemented.  Under the state emergency manager law, council members have
until Oct. 28 to approve an alternate plan that would be an
equivalent or better deal for the city than the Barclays loan.  Orr proposed using about $230 million of the financing from
the London-based lender to end the swaps with  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Bank of
America Corp. The agreement also would save tens of millions of
dollars on debt payments and let the city spend more on such
things as better technology, Orr said.  The city would pledge revenue from payroll and gaming taxes
to back the loan, as well as the proceeds of asset sales or
leases that bring in more than $10 million, according to Orr. He
said Barclays agreed to charge interest at the London Interbank
Offered Rate plus 2.5 percent for as long as 30 months.  The swaps, tied to $1.4 billion in pension bonds issued in
2005 and 2006, were a bet on the direction of  interest rates , to
hedge against a possible rise. Because rates fell, the city owes
the banks. Under the terms of the contracts, cuts to the city’s
credit ratings let the banks demand their termination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  