-- Diaz Drives ‘Counselor’; Red ‘Capital’; ‘Bastards’: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-10-25T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/diaz-drives-counselor-red-capital-bastards-film.html
Ridley Scott’s messy, overheated
“ The Counselor ” may be remembered only for  Cameron Diaz ’s
amazingly limber depiction of car sex.  Not in a car, mind you. With a car.  “You see a thing like that,” says her haunted boyfriend,
played by  Javier Bardem , “it changes you.”  An unrestrained indulgence in writer Cormac McCarthy’s
Southwestern Gothic, “The Counselor” tells the tale of a good
man undone by greed and a single lapse in judgment.  It’s all meant to be Shakespearean. Overwrought soliloquies
about auto eroticism, snuff films and mechanical strangulation
devices do not, however, a “Hamlet” make.  The good man is the unnamed counselor, a Gucci-suited Texas
lawyer ( Michael Fassbender , suggesting nothing of the Lone Star
state) who gets wrapped up in a drug trafficking deal with his
nightclub-owning client (Bardem).  By a coincidence that won’t be unraveled with one viewing,
another client of the Counselor is murdered, irritating an
ultra-violent Mexican cartel.  McCarthy, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of “The Road”
making his screenwriting debut here, favors rambling, off-kilter
dialogue and quirky speechifying over plot cohesion and easy
explanations.  Pet Leopards  Or any explanations, for that matter. Much is made of two
pet leopards set loose in the countryside, as well as a massive
diamond introduced with all the subtlety of a Zales commercial.  All three are later recalled only as an afterthought, when
Diaz’s femme fatale is asked something along the lines of, “Hey,
whatever happened to...”  Cameos by familiar faces -- Ruben Blades, John Leguizamo and
Rosie Perez pad an ensemble that already includes Penelope Cruz
and  Brad Pitt  -- seem like outtakes from abandoned plot lines.  “You are now at a crossroads,” Blades’s heretofore unknown
sage advises the counselor late in the film, “and you want to
choose, but there is no choosing there, only accepting.”  Fine. Now about those leopards...  “The Counselor,” from Twentieth Century Fox, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ** (Evans)  Menacing ‘Bastards’  “ Bastards ,” French director Claire Denis’s strange,
enthralling thriller, opens with a suicide, a bankrupted wife
and a daughter hospitalized after a sexual horror. (We see her
naked on the street, smeared with blood.)  For a while the carefully fractured narrative keeps us from
fully comprehending what’s going on.  Into this stew of depravity steps the girl’s uncle, the
upright Marco (Vincent Lindon), a French Philip Marlowe returned
from seafaring to defend and avenge his family.  The movie is menacingly quiet. There’s nothing pushy about
the danceable electronic score (by Tindersticks). For American
tastes, it may be, like its Gary Cooper-esque hero, almost too
reticent. Even in moments of high emotion, Denis keeps the
temperature down to a chill.  The title characters are rich old profligates who consider
the women they’ve paid for their property and don’t mind seeing
them damaged.  I resisted the director’s broad-stroke picture of innocence
defiled by power, until I realized that those brush strokes were
more intricate than I’d perceived. The orderly corruption she
depicts involves bargains that have been entered into on all
sides.  The film’s subject is the self-sustaining system of abuse.
As it keeps stripping away layers of lies, and the director
follows out the cruelest implications of her vision, “Bastards”
earns a place next to the 1974 “ Chinatown ,” which it often
recalls. It’s that hypnotically dark.  “Bastards,” from Sundance Selects, opens Wednesday in  New
York . Rating: **** (Seligman)  Cowboy ‘Capital’  American-style “cowboy capitalism” comes under fire in
“ Capital ,” director Costa-Gavras’s left-leaning French drama
charting the boardroom ascendancy and moral decline of a hotshot
French banker.  Gad Elmaleh (“ Midnight in Paris ”) plays a bank’s rising star
tapped by higher-ups as a place-holding patsy during the
recuperation of an ailing CEO.  A disappointment to his Socialist kin, the ambitious new CEO
takes to his new job like a shark to chum, angering his elders,
his bosses and an American hedge fund owner (Gabriel Byrne)
planning a hostile takeover.  Costa-Gavras has a good ear for boardroom doubletalk and
cutthroat shenanigans, but can’t quite decide whether to praise
his young prince or bury him.  And the director’s dismissive depiction of women is off-putting, to say the least, culminating in a rape that curdles
the entire film.  “Capital,” from Cohen Media Group, is playing in New York.
Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ‘The Square’  The Egyptian-American documentarian Jehane Noujaim began
filming in  Tahrir Square , in Cairo, when it filled with
protesters against the dictatorship of President  Hosni Mubarak ,
in January 2011. Mubarak stepped down the following month.  Noujaim kept shooting into July 2013, when a coup deposed
the year-old, increasingly authoritarian government led by
President Mohamed Mursi of the Muslim Brotherhood, and beyond.  “ The Square ” presents these events from a secular-liberal
point of view -- that is, it’s both anti-Mubarak and anti-Mursi.
More important than its politics is the way it fills in the
emotions that were rippling through the populace.  We already have the information. No news report could render
the hope and the desperation of the people who risked their
lives in Tahrir Square so fully, or so thrillingly.  “The Square,” from Noujaim Films, is playing in New York.
Rating: **** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 