-- DirecTV, Time Warner Cable Are Said to Weigh Aereo-Type Services
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r ,   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 2013-10-26T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/directv-time-warner-cable-said-to-consider-aereo-type-services.html
DirecTV,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and
 Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , taking a page from Aereo Inc., are
considering capturing free broadcast-TV signals to avoid paying
billions of dollars in so-called retransmission fees, said
people with knowledge of the deliberations.  Aereo, which charges $8 a month for online access to
broadcast TV, is locked in a court battle with  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and
other media companies over the legality of its service. If Aereo
prevails, cable companies could use the same approach to bypass
the fees they now pay for network signals, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions are at an
early stage. Time Warner Cable has even considered buying Aereo,
said one of the people.  Broadcast TV companies petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court
this month to rule that Aereo is an illegal operation. The
startup, backed by billionaire  Barry Diller , uses thousands of
small antennas to capture free over-the-air signals and
transmits the programming to paying subscribers over the
Internet -- without the permission of broadcasters.  “If found to be legal, the Aereo concept is very
interesting, especially as it relates to retransmission consent
fees,”  Maureen Huff , a spokeswoman for New York-based Time
Warner Cable, said yesterday. She declined to comment on whether
the cable company would consider buying Aereo.  Justin Venech, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-based
Charter, declined to comment, as did Aereo’s Virginia Lam.
Darris Gringeri, a spokesman for El Segundo, California-based
DirecTV, didn’t return messages seeking comment.  ‘Gravy Train’  Aereo’s legal fight pits the New York-based startup against
some of the world’s largest media companies, including Walt Disney Co., 21st Century Fox Inc. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBCUniversal. The broadcasters are trying to preserve their
ability to charge retransmission fees, which let pay-TV
companies air CBS, ABC, NBC and Fox on their systems.  “This threatens the retrans gravy train,” said  Rich Greenfield , an analyst with BTIG LLC in  New York . “As Aereo
continues to win legal battles, it’s becoming more apparent it
could survive these challenges.”  Federal regulators require pay-TV systems to gain consent
from TV stations to rebroadcast their signals. The networks,
including Spanish-language broadcasters Univision Communications
Inc. and NBCUniversal’s Telemundo, own many of their stations.
Others are affiliates owned by companies including Sinclair
Broadcast Group,  Tribune Co. (TRBAA) , Hearst Corp. and Gannett Co. The
networks are beginning to share in the fees collected by their
affiliates.  ‘Plucking’ Signals  Retransmission fees in the U.S. are expected to double to
$6.1 billion in 2018 from $3.01 billion this year, according to
research firm SNL Kagan.  The fees are essential to the broadcast TV industry, Fox
President and Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  said in April.
If Aereo is permitted to stay in business, Fox’s broadcast
network will convert into a cable channel and cease to provide
over-the-air access, he said at the time.  CBS CEO Leslie Moonves said he would do the same, as did
Univision Chairman  Haim Saban .  Cable companies are within their rights seeking to match
Aereo’s ability, if it stands up in court, to capture free
broadcast signals rather than pay for land-based access, said
 Leo Hindery , managing partner of New York-based private equity
fund InterMedia Partners and former chairman of the YES Network.  “It is intellectually and legally inconsistent to saddle
the cable industry with billions of dollars each year of
broadcast retransmission fees, while allowing a similarly for-profit company to pluck broadcast signals out of the air and
sell them without paying any such fees,” Hindery said in an
interview. “The cable companies are fully entitled to do
everything in their power to stop this travesty.”  Shares of Time Warner Cable, the second-biggest U.S. cable
system, were little changed yesterday in New York, closing at
$119.44. Charter rose 0.4 percent to $138.58.  DirecTV (DTV) , the
biggest U.S. satellite-TV system, fell 0.3 percent to $62.81.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  