-- Dish’s Airwaves Play Needs U.S. Buy-in to Pay $5 Billion
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-10-25T20:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/dish-s-airwaves-play-needs-u-s-buy-in-to-pay-5-billion.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , trading at a  13-year high , is on its way to creating $5 billion or more in added
value from a series of airwaves gambits that position the
satellite-TV provider as a force in mobile broadband.  It just needs a little help from U.S. regulators.  Dish paid $2.78 billion in 2012 for two satellite
companies’ airwaves that it’s readying for use by ground-based
smartphone networks, and pledged to bid $2.2 billion at an
auction for bankrupt LightSquared Inc.’s mobile frequencies.  Now Dish is offering the Federal Communication Commission a
deal: It will ensure the success of a U.S. airwaves auction in
January, by setting a price floor of $1.56 billion, if it’s
allowed to alter uses for airwaves it already has, which would
make them more valuable.  “It’s elegant,”  Paul Gallant , Washington-based managing
director for Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in an interview.
“It aligns most of the politics needed to push through the
proposal, and improves the company’s spectrum position.”  The mystery is whether chairman and co-founder  Charlie Ergen ’s intent is to build a wireless network, find a mobile
partner such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  or  Verizon Wireless  to lease his
inventory, or eventually resell the airwaves.  Some analysts see upside in any of the three.  Dish’s value could increase by $24 to $37 a share if it
wins the January auction, the LightSquared frequencies and its
flexibility request, Amy Yong and Andrew DeGasperi, New York-based analysts with Macquarie Equities Research, said in an Oct.
15 note.  With 218 million shares outstanding, that would amount to
an increase in market capitalization of $5.24 billion to $8.07
billion. Dish dropped 61 cents to $48.67 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time.  Pay TV  Ergen has said he sees mobile broadband as a potential new
market for the third-largest U.S. pay-television provider, based
in Englewood,  Colorado . Dish has struggled to find new customers
as Americans watch more video over the Internet.  North American companies’ revenue from wireless data grew
176 percent over five years, to $96.4 billion in 2012 from $34.9
billion in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries.  Dish says it wants to compete. FCC regulatory flexibility
“is critical to Dish’s successful deployment of a terrestrial
broadband network,” the company said in a Sept. 10 filing.  Jeffrey Blum, Dish senior vice president and deputy general
counsel, said in an e-mail FCC action “will enhance spectrum
utilization and serve the public interest.”  Still, Ergen has analysts guessing. “What he does is a
question mark,” Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based analyst with
Medley Global Advisors, said in an interview. “What’s more
certain is what he won’t do: build an expensive network.”  Dish will avoid the dicey arena where third- and fourth-largest providers Sprint Corp. and  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  struggle
against market leader Verizon and No. 2 AT&T, Silva said.  Political Pact  In negotiations with the FCC last month, Dish agreed to
join an arrangement to help small wireless carriers obtain
handsets that are made to work on AT&T’s airwaves and not
theirs. That has been a priority of Acting FCC Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn.  Dish, as part of that agreement, said it would limit power
on some airwaves to reduce the chances of interference on nearby
frequencies held by companies including AT&T. The deal will be
voted on the agency Oct. 28.  Dish’s lowered-power commitment was contingent on the FCC
relaxing deadlines to build networks and allowing the company to
make other use of the satellite airwaves it bought in 2012, the
company said in filings.  ‘Backroom Deal’  Dish’ assurance of a minimum bid for the January auction
helps meet a policy goal for the FCC: ensuring that the sale of
the so-called H Block doesn’t fail with a bid only from  Sprint
Corp. (S) , or with unacceptably low offers. The sale is intended to
raise money to build a national network for emergency workers.  One FCC member, Jessica Rosenworcel, had opposed a January
auction,  saying  a later date would attract more bidders and
raise more money.  The FCC acted with “unseemly haste” to cobble together a
“backroom deal” on handset access, NTCH Inc., a closely held
wireless carrier that provides service under the Clear Talk
brand, said in a Sept. 30 filing.  NTCH has challenged the FCC’s decision in 2012 to let Dish
use the airwaves for mobile broadband service, and has said the
frequencies should be auctioned off.  Letting Dish link a promise to make an auction work with
relaxing restrictions on how airwaves can be used “sets an
extremely bad precedent and suggests the commission can be paid
off to bend its rules,” NTCH said in the filing.  In the FCC’s view, the arrangement “advances the
significant public interest goals of making more spectrum
effectively available for mobile broadband,” Justin Cole, an
agency spokesman, said in an e-mail.  LightSquared Legacy  Dish’s flexibility request is for frequencies it already
owns, which it could use for receiving videos and messages after
buying the LightSquared airwaves to carry data going from
smartphones to towers. The use may not pose the interference
risk to navigation gear that led U.S. authorities to block
LightSquared’s proposed satellite-broadband network last year.  By reducing the potential for interference with the H Block
frequencies, switching uses from sending to receiving data would
increase that spectrum’s value, said Fred Campbell, who directs
a communications program at the Washington-based policy group
Competitive Enterprise Institute that says it is for free
markets and limited government.  “It’s harder for anyone other than Dish to value the
spectrum,” Campbell, a former chief of the FCC’s wireless
bureau, said in an interview. “Dish has an information
advantage.”  Ergen’s 2012 airwaves acquisition and the LightSquared
purchase could be worth two to four times the approximately $5
billion they cost,  Walter Piecyk , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New
York, said in a blog posting last month.  “Investors are just going to give him credit for creating
more value. There are so many ways,” Yong said of Ergen in an
interview. “No one really knows what the end game is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  