-- Eaton CEO Sees Europe Boosting Product Demand in 2014
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-10-25T20:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/eaton-ceo-sees-europe-boosting-product-demand-in-2014.html
Eaton Corp. (ETN)  Chief Executive Officer
Sandy Cutler forecast an increase in demand in its markets of as
much as 4 percent next year, spurred by economic recovery in
 Europe .  “The biggest turnaround in a region is likely be Europe,”
Cutler said in a phone interview today. “Whether you think
growth’s a half-point positive or a point positive, it’s sure
going to be better than negative 1 percent for a couple of years
in a row.”  A recovery in the company’s orders in the third quarter has
marked a “change in momentum,” Cutler said today. Eaton, which
is based in Dublin and operates from  Cleveland , is forecasting
zero growth for its markets this year, Cutler said.  Eaton, which makes electrical equipment for buildings and
hydraulics for machinery, reported quarterly earnings today in
line with analysts’ estimates while sales trailed projections.
Orders for aerospace, electrical and hydraulics equipment each
rose 6 percent or more in the third quarter, and bookings have
“started out quite strong in October,” Cutler said.  Along with higher demand, Eaton’s earnings next year will
get a boost from $95 million in additional efficiencies related
to its $13 billion acquisition of Cooper Industries Plc in 2012,
as well as a $20 million reduction in pension-related costs,
Cutler said.  Next year, the  U.S. economy  will continue to expand, Cutler
said.  China  is “working its way through this very challenging
transition,” he said, referring to the country’s move to a
domestic-focused economy away from being export-led.  Shares of Eaton increased 4.6 percent to $71.64 at the
close in New York, their highest value since at least 1980. The
stock has gained 32 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{ Thomas Black } in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  