-- Ecuador Judge Says He Inflated Bribery Claims to Chevron
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/ecuador-judge-says-he-inflated-bribery-claims-to-chevron.html
A former Ecuadorean judge who
testified he and a colleague received bribes from plaintiffs who
won a $19 billion pollution judgment against  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  told
a U.S. court he initially exaggerated those claims.  The former judge, Alberto Guerra, testified in a trial in
Manhattan federal court yesterday that he wasn’t truthful about
some details when he first discussed the bribery allegations
with Chevron representatives in 2012.  Guerra, a key witness for Chevron in a racketeering case
against lawyers for Ecuadorean plaintiffs who claim the company
polluted their communities, has testified to receiving as much
as $40,000 to ghostwrite rulings for another judge who presided
over the Chevron case, as well as editing and polishing the $19
billion judgment. The other judge, Nicolas Zambrano, was
promised $500,000 from the proceeds of the 2011 judgment, Guerra
said in his testimony.  When first discussing those bribery allegations with
Chevron, Guerra falsely told company representatives the
plaintiffs promised him $300,000 to help steer the case in their
favor, according to his testimony yesterday.  “It was an exaggeration on my part in order to secure a
better position for myself,” he said through a translator,
under questioning by  Zoe Littlepage , a lawyer for the Ecuadorean
plaintiffs’ lead attorney, Steven Donziger. “It was not true.”  ‘Shake Down’  Chevron is trying to prove in a non-jury trial before U.S.
District Judge Lewis Kaplan that Donziger and his associates
schemed to “shake down” the second-largest U.S. energy company
by pursuing a case over pollution at a drilling site in the
Ecuadorean Amazon, in part by taking advantage of corruption in
the South American country’s judiciary.  Donziger, a Harvard Law School-educated Manhattan lawyer,
denies he did anything illegal in Ecuador. He argues the
judgment is valid and that Chevron used tactics similar to those
it claims he engaged in.  Donziger claims Guerra cut a deal with Chevron in which the
company agreed to pay the former judge at least $326,000 through
2015 for his testimony.  Under an agreement filed with the court, the San Ramon,
California-based company said it would provide Guerra for a two-year period with $10,000 a month in living expenses, a $2,000
monthly housing allowance, health insurance coverage for himself
and family members, a leased automobile, payment for an
independent attorney, payment for an immigration attorney, and
moving expenses.  Ecuador Threat  The money is intended to allow Guerra to be available to
testify and remain safe, according to the agreement. Guerra and
his family, who now live in the U.S., face the threat of harm in
 Ecuador , according to the agreement. Guerra denied being paid
for his testimony.  Guerra’s former colleague, Zambrano, may also testify in
the trial, Donziger’s spokesman, Christopher Gowen, said in an
e-mail.  In testimony earlier this week, Guerra told the Kaplan that
he received money from the plaintiffs’ lawyers sometimes through
deposits in his bank account and sometimes in envelopes stuffed
with $20 and $50 bills. Throughout the pollution case, Guerra
said he made sure some of the rulings he ghostwrote favored
Chevron so as “to not have it look suspicious.”  In the underlying 20-year-old environmental dispute,
Donziger and other lawyers for indigenous people in Ecuador’s
Lago Agrio region sought damages for Texaco Inc.’s alleged
dumping of toxic drilling wastes from 1964 until about 1992. The
lawsuit continued against Chevron when it acquired Texaco in
2001.  Chevron contends that state-owned Petroecuador, a former
Texaco joint-venture partner, is responsible for most of the
pollution and that Texaco already paid to clean up its share.  In the racketeering case, Chevron is seeking a ruling
barring the environmental plaintiffs’ lawyers from seeking to
enforce the Ecuadorean judgment in courts around the world.  The racketeering case is Chevron Corp. v. Donziger, 11-cv-00691, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ). The appeals court case is In re Naranjo, 13-00772,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Manhattan at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  