-- Hedge-Fund Manager Tilson Shorting Green Mountain Coffee
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-10-25T20:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/hedge-fund-manager-tilson-shorting-green-mountain-coffee.html
Hedge-fund manager  Whitney Tilson ,
who runs Kase Capital, is maintaining his short position on
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc.  “It’s blindingly obvious that the  competition  is
emerging,” Tilson said today in a telephone interview. Green
Mountain is losing market share, “and I see that continuing,”
he said.  “It takes time for the competition to actually ramp up
their production, begin to get more shelf space and then for it
to appear in Green Mountain’s numbers,” he said. “In the
meantime, Green Mountain can give any guidance it wants.”  More sellers of private-label capsules that fit into Keurig
machines have been emerging.  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  in
September started selling a line of organic single-serve pods,
and  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and Kroger Co. also have introduced their own
brands of coffee capsules. Waterbury, Vermont-based Green
Mountain in August said its third-quarter sales rose 11 percent,
the slowest quarterly growth in more than a decade, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Suzanne DuLong, a Green Mountain spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Tilson in September named Green Mountain as one of his
favorite shorts, along with  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) , World Acceptance
Corp. and  InterOil Corp. (IOC)  Shorting involves selling borrowed
securities, wagering that their prices will fall.  While Green Mountain shares have more than doubled in the
past year, they fell 13 percent in September after a report
showed K-Cup sales growth slowed during the month, and SunTrust
Banks Inc. analyst William Chappell cut his rating on the stock.
This month, two more analysts have lowered their
recommendations. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 3
percent in September.  Green Mountain fell 1.9 percent to $61.78 at the close in
 New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  