-- Telecom Italia Is Said to Mull $2.8 Billion Capital Increase
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-10-25T16:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/telecom-italia-said-to-consider-up-to-2-8-bln-capital-increase.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , the phone
company that lost its chief executive officer as well as its
investment-grade  rating  this month, is considering a capital
increase of as much as 2 billion euros ($2.8 billion), according
to three people familiar with the matter.  Italy ’s biggest carrier is evaluating a proposal to raise
1.5 billion euros to 2 billion euros from shareholders including
Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) , said the people, asking not to be
identified because the deliberations are private. A final
decision hasn’t been made, and the option could be presented to
the board at a scheduled meeting Nov. 7, the people said.  Telecom Italia fell the most in eight months in Milan
trading. Other proposals that could be reviewed by directors
include the cancellation of a  dividend  and a sale of assets in
Brazil and Argentina, one of the people said.  Led by Marco Patuano after executive Chairman Franco Bernabe resigned this month following a clash of strategic
directions with shareholders, Telecom Italia is seeking to avert
a downgrade to junk status by a second rating company. Moody’s
Investors Service already stripped the Milan-based carrier of
its investment grade, and Standard & Poor’s plans to complete
its own review next month. Telecom Italia has almost $40 billion
in net debt, more than double its market capitalization.  No Comment  In a stock-exchange statement, Telecom Italia said it plans
to present “an industrial plan” to its board on Nov. 7, while
it couldn’t comment on “alleged capital increase transactions,
dismissals of assets, changes in the dividend policy.”  The stock closed 6.4 percent lower at 67.2 cents in Milan.
It fell as much as 9 percent -- the steepest intraday decline in
4 1/2 years -- after Bloomberg’s report and was halted briefly
because of the extent of the move.  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein in
 London , wrote in a note that a potential lengthy process for a
sale of the Brazilian division  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  and possible
changes to Italy’s takeover rules would strengthen the case for
a capital increase.  “This is a small amount of money to restart Telecom
Italia,” said Andrea Giuricin, a professor who specializes in
media and telecommunications at Milan Bicocca University. “If
the company puts forward other measures such as the sale of some
Latin American assets, coupled with a good plan of cost cuts, a
turnaround may begin.”  Telco Buyout  Still, Telefonica and other investors in the Italian
carrier may be unwilling to inject more cash into Telecom
Italia, said  Roger Appleyard , head of global credit research at
RBC Capital Markets in London.  Spain’s former phone monopoly last month agreed to
gradually buy out co-investors in Telco SpA, the holding company
that owns 22.4 percent of Telecom Italia and controls the
carrier’s board.  Telecom Italia also plans to propose a new cost-reduction
program, one of the people said. The company intends to scrap a
plan to spin off its telephone network, people familiar with the
matter said earlier this week.  Issuers including lender Barclays Plc and tour operator
 Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  have raised about $69 billion in stock
sales in Europe this year, compared with $48 billion in the same
period in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch carrier partly owned by billionaire
 Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, raised about 2.9 billion euros
in share sale in May after scrapping its dividend plans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  