-- Electrolux to Cut Costs and Jobs as Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-10-25T07:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/electrolux-cuts-costs-as-third-quarter-profit-misses-estimates.html
Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-biggest home appliances maker, said it will eliminate 2,000 jobs
after reporting third-quarter earnings below analysts’
estimates. The stock slumped the most in eight months.  The maker of AEG vacuum cleaners said in a statement today
that it plans to close a factory in  Australia  and move
production to  Thailand  while also reviewing the competitiveness
of its four Italian manufacturing plants. Added to other
measures, Stockholm-based Electrolux expects annual savings of
about 1.8 billion kronor ($284 million).  “We expect these actions to have a positive impact on our
cost position and contribute to our margins,” Chief Executive
Officer Keith McLoughlin said in a separate release. Electrolux
expects to take 3.4 billion kronor in charges related to the
measures in the fourth quarter and 2014.  The Swedish company is expanding in  emerging markets  and
moving production to low-cost countries to counteract weakness
in  Europe . Electrolux said the measures announced today are
“the next phase” of a manufacturing footprint program
initiated in 2011 to improve cost competitiveness.  The shares fell as much as 6.3 percent, the biggest decline
since Feb. 1 and were down 6 percent to 162.4 kronor at 9:50
a.m. in the Swedish capital. The stock has lost 5 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of 50 billion kronor.  Currency Effects  “This is no huge surprise,” Johan Eliason, an analyst at
Kepler Cheuvreux in Stockholm, said by telephone about the cost
cuts, adding results were marginally weak due to Europe and
currency effects.  Electrolux anticipates demand in Europe will decline by as
much as 2 percent in 2013, it said today.  In  North America , business is benefiting from a recovering
housing market. Electrolux said it predicts that demand for
appliances in the U.S. will grow by as much as 9 percent this
year, up from a previous forecast of as much as 7 percent.  Whirlpool Inc. this week raised its full-year earnings
forecast as the maker of KitchenAid appliances reported a
better-than-anticipated third quarter. In the U.S., the Benton
Harbor, Michigan-based company estimates industry shipments will
increase by as much as 9 percent this year.  Electrolux said the cost cuts and job reductions announced
today will mainly affect its appliances businesses in Europe,
the  Middle East  and  Africa . The company had about 60,000
employees at the end of June, according to its website.  Electrolux earnings before interest and taxes for the three
months ended Sept. 30 fell 24 percent to 1.08 billion kronor
from a year earlier. The average of 15 estimates gathered by
Bloomberg was 1.32 billion kronor.  Third-quarter sales were little changed at 27.3 billion
kronor while analysts had estimated 27.6 billion kronor. So-called Organic sales growth was 4.9 percent while currencies had
a negative impact of 4.6 percent, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in  Stockholm  at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  