-- Telefonica Said to Near Agreement to Sell Czech Unit to PPF
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-25T16:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/telefonica-said-to-near-agreement-to-sell-czech-unit-to-ppf-1-.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  is nearing an
agreement to sell its controlling stake in the Czech Republic’s
biggest telephone company to billionaire  Petr Kellner ’s PPF
Group NV, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Telefonica and PPF are negotiating final terms for the 69
percent holding in Telefonica Czech Republic AS, said the
people, asking not to be identified because the deliberations
are private. The deal will probably include staggered payments
based on future performance of the business because the sale
price is unlikely to include a premium on the value of the
shares, they said.  The shares  climbed  1.6 percent to close at 314 koruna in
 Prague , erasing earlier losses of as much as 1.7 percent. The
stock was the biggest gainer of the benchmark PX index.
Telefonica’s stake has a market value of 68.2 billion koruna
($3.7 billion).  PPF remains the only bidder and an agreement with Madrid-based Telefonica could be announced as early as next month, said
the people. Representatives for Telefonica and PPF declined to
comment on the negotiations and price.  Telefonica and PPF said this month they were in talks about
a sale of the Czech business. A takeover by 49-year-old Kellner,
the richest man in the  Czech Republic  with a net worth of $11.7
billion according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, would put
the former phone monopoly back in Czech hands for the first time
in eight years. Telefonica paid about $4.7 billion in two
transactions in 2005 for the stake.  ’Positive’ Move  “It’s positive for Telefonica to exit markets such as
Czech Republic and focus on the biggest ones in  Europe  ahead of
further consolidation,” said Alberto Espelosin, who helps
manage about 1.3 billion euros, including Telefonica shares, at
Abante Asesores in Madrid.  The unit’s revenue has fallen every quarter since early
2009 as competition with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE) ’s local businesses intensified, and regulators are now trying
to open the market to a new operator.  Telefonica Czech’s first-half operating income before
depreciation and amortization declined 10 percent to 9.14
billion koruna from a year earlier. The Oibda margin shrank to
38.2 percent from 40.5 percent. The company had 5.1 million
mobile-phone clients and 1.4 million fixed-access lines at the
end of June. It also had 1.4 million wireless users in Slovakia.  Asset Sales  PPF, one of eastern Europe’s largest investment companies,
owns stakes in more than a dozen businesses including
electronics retailer Eldorado, gold and silver miner Polymetal
International Plc and finance company Home Credit Group. In
January, PPF agreed to sell its stake in an insurance venture
with  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  for 2.5 billion euros ($3.4
billion).  For Telefonica, a sale will generate proceeds to help repay
debt. This year, Telefonica also agreed to sell its Irish
business to Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing . Spain’s biggest
carrier is increasing its indirect holding in  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) 
and working on completing the acquisition of a controlling stake
in Royal KPN NV’s German mobile-phone business.  Telefonica slipped 1.3 percent to 12.71 euros in Madrid.
The company is scheduled to report earnings Nov. 8. Telefonica
Czech  reports  Nov. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net  