-- Emerging Stocks Cap Biggest Weekly Decline Since August
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-10-25T21:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/emerging-stocks-head-for-steepest-weekly-decline-in-two-months.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, capping
the biggest weekly drop since August, as  China ’s money-market
rates jumped and concern grew that earnings will falter.
 Indonesia ’s rupiah posted its best week since June 2009.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 0.3 percent to
1,027.27, extending its weekly slump to 1.4 percent. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid to the lowest level in seven weeks
as  Great Wall Motor Co. (601633)  tumbled 10 percent after earnings missed
analysts’ estimates. Oil company  OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  sank 19 percent, pacing losses in  Brazil ’s
Ibovespa. The rupiah strengthened the most since Sept. 19.  Stocks fell as China’s money-market rate completed the
biggest weekly jump since a cash squeeze in June after the
central bank refrained from injecting funds through open-market
operations. More than half of the 125 companies that reported
quarterly earnings in the gauge for developing nations  missed 
sales estimates, while revenue increased by an average 2.1
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Uncertainty in China suggests that people maybe decided
to be a little more cautious,” Derrick Irwin, a portfolio
manager of the Wells Fargo Advantage  Emerging Markets  Equity
Fund in  Boston , said by phone. His firm manages $223.8 billion.
“These concerns come up every time the money-market rate
spikes. As we look at the earnings season, it’s been at worst a
mixed bag.”  Nine out of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
fell, led by utility, industrial and technology companies. The
gauge for developing nations has dropped 2.7 percent this year
to trade at 10.6 times projected earnings, compared with the
 valuation  of 14.3 for the MSCI World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund advanced 0.5 percent to $42.75. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
retreated 2.3 percent to 21.01.  Brazil’s Ibovespa posted the biggest weekly decline in
almost two months. Oil company OGX tumbled after Valor Economico
reported a round of talks with bondholders ended Oct. 23 with no
agreement reached.  Russian stocks rose as oil, the nation’s main export
earner, climbed.  OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  gained for the first time this week.
Benchmark gauges in Hungary and Turkey also advanced. Tofas Turk
Otomobil Fabrikasi AS, the Turkish carmaker part-owned by Fiat
SpA, climbed for a second day on bets plans to roll out a new
vehicle will boost revenue from exports.  China, India  The Shanghai Composite Index fell for a fourth day, capping
the longest stretch of losses in almost three months. Great Wall
Motor led declines for consumer-discretionary companies reliant
on economic growth.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex ended three weeks of gains as Bharat
Heavy Electricals Ltd., the largest maker of power equipment,
slumped to a one-month low.  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , India’s biggest tobacco
company, slid after its sales trailed estimates.  The rupiah rose 2.8 percent since Oct. 18 as of 4:37 p.m.
in Jakarta, beating all 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, prices from local banks show.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis points, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 311 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  