-- Senate Democrats Seek to Extend Obamacare Enrollment Period
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-10-25T21:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/ten-senate-democrats-seek-to-extend-obamacare-enrollment-period.html
Ten Senate Democrats, including
seven facing re-election next year, are backing away from their
party by calling for changes to the federal health-care program.  The senators are seeking an extension of the deadline for
people to join health-care exchanges because of “substantial
technology glitches” with healthcare.gov, the primary way for
consumers to shop for insurance. Website failures have made it
harder for people to compare coverage and enroll in the U.S.
plans before March 31 or face penalties.  In a letter sent to Health and Human Services Secretary
Kathleen Sebelius, the senators said they are “discouraged and
frustrated with the problems.” The letter was released today by
its author, Senator Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat.  “Extending this period will give consumers critical time
in which to become familiar with the website and choose a plan
that is best for them,” according to the letter. “Individuals
should not be penalized for lack of coverage if they are unable
to purchase health insurance due to technical problems.”  Sebelius, at a news conference today in San Antonio, said
the department isn’t discussing an extension because any change
in dates has “subsequent consequences” for insurance
providers. Earlier today, in Austin,  Texas , she said she didn’t
realize the site wouldn’t be “operating optimally” before its
Oct. 1 debut.  ‘Some Progress’  “We’re making some progress,”  Josh Earnest , a White House
spokesman, told reporters today traveling with President  Barack Obama  to New York. “We’re less than four weeks into a six-month
enrollment here.”  Jeffrey Zients, the consultant Obama named this week to
resolve the website’s flaws, said today the exchanges will be
fixed by December. Management of the website project has been
reorganized and a lead contractor has taken over, Zients said on
a conference call in  Washington .  Obama’s administration has the authority to extend the
enrollment period without congressional approval, said Amber
Moon, a spokesman for North Carolina Democratic Senator Kay Hagan, who signed Shaheen’s letter. The  law  allows Sebelius to
determine the enrollment period and exempt individuals from the
penalty.  Six Weeks  The Obama administration this week announced a change that
gives individuals six more weeks, or until March 31, to enroll
without facing penalties. Under the law, anyone not covered for
three months or longer faces a fine. For the insurance to take
effect and avoid the fines, uninsured Americans would have had
to sign up by Feb. 15.  The Democratic senators took a page from the playbook of 20
colleagues in their party who wrote Obama in July urging him to
nominate Janet Yellen to become chairman of the Federal Reserve.
Obama picked Yellen, currently the Fed’s vice chairman, for the
top post this month.  The health-care letter, in which the senators note their
support of Obama’s signature domestic achievement, could also
force the president’s hand, said Jim Manley, a former aide to
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.  “They’re going to have to give this a good, hard look,”
Manley said in an interview.  Democrats in the U.S. Senate had refused, as part of budget
negotiations, to discuss changes to the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, including a one-year delay of the
requirement for individuals to enroll in the insurance
exchanges.  Partial Shutdown  The fight over the law, known as Obamacare, contributed to
the 16-day partial government shutdown and led to a record low
favorability rating for Republicans in a  Gallup Poll . In the
week since Republicans yielded and government opened, they’ve
shifted tactics and are highlighting the website’s flawed debut.  A House hearing yesterday was the first salvo in the fresh
line of attack, as Republicans blamed Obama’s administration for
the shortcomings of the health-insurance website that
contractors said wasn’t adequately tested.  Meanwhile, Democrats have been focused on fixing the
health-care program’s website.  West Virginia Democrat Joe Manchin, who supports delaying
the individual mandate, is crafting a bill to delay the $95
penalty for not enrolling. Hagan yesterday said the enrollment
deadline should be postponed by two months. The Democrats’
letter didn’t specify a new deadline.  Shaheen’s letter was signed by four Senate Democrats
running for re-election next year in states Obama lost in 2012:
Hagan, Mark Begich of  Alaska , Mary Landrieu of Louisiana and
Mark Pryor of  Arkansas .  Also signing were Mark Udall of  Colorado  and Tom Udall of
New Mexico, whose terms also end next year, along with Dianne Feinstein of  California , Michael Bennet of Colorado and Martin Heinrich of New Mexico.  Bennet is the chairman of the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  