-- Tentative JPMorgan Pact Said to Hit Snag Over FDIC Funds
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-10-25T23:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/tentative-jpmorgan-pact-said-to-hit-snag-over-fdic-funds.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s (JPM)  tentative
agreement to pay a record $13 billion to end civil claims over
its sales of mortgage bonds has hit a snag because of the bank’s
bid to make the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. liable for part
of the payment, a person familiar with the talks said.  The U.S. Justice Department is opposing JPMorgan’s request
that the FDIC assume liability for investors’ losses stemming
from Washington Mutual Inc., the person, who sought anonymity to
discuss the private negotiations, said today. JPMorgan acquired
Washington Mutual’s assets in 2008.  Resolving part of the $13 billion tentative agreement
today, JPMorgan agreed to pay $5.1 billion to settle Federal
Housing Finance Agency claims related to home loans and
mortgage-backed securities the bank sold to  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
 Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   The settlement includes $4 billion to resolve claims over
mortgage bonds and $1.1 billion to settle claims that JPMorgan
sold faulty mortgages directly to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
that the companies packaged into their own securities, the FHFA
said today in a statement.  In the FHFA agreement, JPMorgan preserved its right to seek
FDIC reimbursement for FHFA claims stemming from Washington
Mutual’s estate, which is managed by the FDIC. JPMorgan has been
in a legal battle with the FDIC over who should pay certain
liabilities from the failed thrift, which the agency placed into
receivership in 2008, selling JPMorgan the remaining assets.  WaMu Receivership  While today’s agreement with the FHFA prohibits JPMorgan
from seeking money directly from the FDIC, it doesn’t exclude
reimbursement from the WaMu receivership set up by the agency.  The  Justice Department  is seeking to preclude JPMorgan from
seeking reimbursement from the WaMu receivership in the other
part of the $13 billion agreement, according to the person who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  The tentative $13 billion agreement was described last
weekend by two people with knowledge of the situation. It would
mark the largest amount paid by a financial firm in a settlement
with the U.S. The payment would amount to more than half of
JPMorgan’s profit last year. Only seven companies in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  earned more than $13 billion in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Multiple Claims  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 57, is
seeking to settle multiple civil claims that the company
misrepresented the quality of mortgage-bonds that were packaged
and sold at the height of the U.S. housing boom by JPMorgan,
Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns Cos., which also was acquired
by the New York-based bank in 2008.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan, and  Andrew Gray ,
a spokesman for the FDIC, declined to comment on the snag in the
talks.  The settlement would include about $3 billion for states
and federal regulators, two people briefed on the matter said
earlier this week. It also would cover a $2 billion penalty
against the bank. About $4 billion would go to help homeowners
in hard-hit metropolitan areas, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the negotiations aren’t public.  A settlement including funds from JPMorgan to pay investors
in Washington Mutual mortgage securities “could be seen as
setting a negative precedent” for the bank as it seeks to have
the FDIC cover WaMu’s liabilities in private suits on behalf of
bondholders, Barclays Plc analysts including Sandeep Bordia and
Jasraj Vaidya wrote in an Oct. 23 report.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , as a mortgage-bond trustee, filed a suit
in 2010 saying either JPMorgan or the FDIC owed $6 billion to
$10 billion for flawed mortgages in WaMu securities. JPMorgan
has argued its purchase of WaMu assets in 2008 was structured in
a way in which it shouldn’t liable. The FDIC has said the bank
is responsible.  JPMorgan said in a November 2010 court filing in the
lawsuit that it “never assumed any liability” for the claims
asserted by Deutsche Bank and that the FDIC must indemnify
JPMorgan “in full.”  “Any liability for failure to repurchase loans remains
with the FDIC,” JPMorgan said.  The case reached an “important milestone” this month with
a schedule being filed for expert arguments on the question of
which would be liable, Nomura Securities International analysts
Paul Nikodem and Pratik Gupta wrote in a report. The timeline
could provide “one additional catalyst for JPMorgan to consider
settling this case,” they said.  The Deutsche Bank case is Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.
v. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., 09-cv-01656, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The FHFA case is
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  v. SG Americas, 11-cv-6203,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  