-- EU Fails to Speed Up Privacy Rule in Spite of Merkel Spy Tension
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   I a n   W i s h a r t
-- 2013-10-25T00:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/eu-fails-to-speed-up-privacy-rule-in-spite-of-merkel-spy-tension.html
European Union leaders dropped a
2014 deadline to complete an overhaul of the bloc’s data privacy
laws even as they condemned allegations that the U.S.
eavesdropped on German Chancellor Angela Merkel.  Leaders called for a strengthened data-protection law to be
introduced in a “timely” fashion. A draft version of their
summit statement had language seeking its adoption next year. A
U.K.-led group urged a slowdown to consider the effect of the
legislation on businesses.  “We stressed that we have to speed up the work, but it is
a complex task. It’s not only related to the already difficult
issues of protecting privacy, but it is also an impact on
business,” EU President Herman Van Rompuy said after the first
day of a two-day summit. “We have to study this carefully.”  The overhaul of the privacy law, which could result in
U.S.-based companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Facebook Inc. (FB) , and
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  facing fines as high as 100 million euros ($138
million) for data-protection violations, was endorsed by a panel
of EU lawmakers this week. National governments have to agree to
the proposals before they can become law. At the summit, leaders
called for adoption of the law as part of the introduction of
new telecom rules in 2015.  “We think there’s too much red tape in the proposal,”
Markus Beyrer, director general of European business federation
BusinessEurope, told reporters before the summit. “We think
there are too many things which might hurt data flow, which
might hinder growth.”  Under the draft rules backed by the EU lawmakers’ panel
Oct. 21, social networks or search-engine operators that get
requests to transfer or disclose data processed in the EU would
need the permission of national regulators. They would also have
to inform the person concerned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Wishart in Brussels at 
 iwishart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  