-- EU Leaders Pledge to Reach Euro Bank-Failure Agreement This Year
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-25T00:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/eu-leaders-pledge-to-reach-euro-bank-failure-agreement-this-year.html
European Union leaders recommitted
to seek a joint strategy this year for how to handle failing
banks in order to prepare the  euro zone  for European Central
Bank financial oversight.  The leaders last year sought to break the link between
struggling banks and the euro zone’s sovereign-debt crisis by
handing the ECB supervisory powers, the first step toward a
broader banking union. The European Commission followed up by
proposing a Single Resolution Mechanism for failing lenders.  Nations must decide how to safeguard struggling banks so
that ECB reviews of the euro zone’s most important lenders,
which begin next month, don’t spook investors. ECB President
 Mario Draghi , who addressed the summit over dinner, warned this
week that “banks do need to fail” to prove the assessments’
credibility.  “The next crucial step for the banking union will be the
Single Resolution Mechanism, because once supervision is
European, we cannot leave failures to the national level,” EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  told reporters today, midway through
a two-day summit in Brussels. “ Member states  have committed to
reach a political agreement on the commission proposal by the
end of the year so that it can be adopted before the end of the
parliamentary term.”  Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta told reporters that
“another small step forward” had been made at the summit. “In
December the European Council will have to discuss in a much
stronger way, because it’s a point on which we don’t want to
even minimally retreat.”  Three-Stage Probe  Leaders are scheduled to convene again in Brussels on Dec.
19-20.  “What happened tonight was a confirmation and an
engagement. Banking union is now irreversible,” French
President  Francois Hollande  said.  The ECB is running a three-stage probe into the health of
the euro-area banking industry that will examine about 130
banks, using a benchmark capital-to-assets requirement of 8
percent. A series of stress tests, which pit the banks’ balance
sheets against a range of adverse scenarios, will be conducted
with the European Banking Authority as the final step in that
process.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  underscored the urgency of
the issue, saying he’s not convinced every euro member will have
sufficient backstops in place to handle any capital shortfalls
the ECB assessments uncover.  ‘All Necessary Means’  “Countries should use all necessary means to prepare their
national systems, so if serious issues come out of the bank
reviews they can be addressed,” Rutte told reporters before the
summit began. The Netherlands is ready, “but that’s not the
case with all my European colleagues,” he said.  Once the new oversight regime is in place and
“effective,” countries may be able to ask the European
Stability Mechanism, the euro firewall fund, to help lenders
directly. For now, those resources remain walled off.  Van Rompuy  said the ECB reviews are “a very important
exercise, for which governments must plan well in time with
coordinated and appropriate arrangements, including national
backstops.”  Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said countries will
need to put their own houses in order rather than look to the
ESM. Plans to allow direct bank aid from the fund remain on hold
as the ECB prepares its reviews.  Parliament Position  “We have decided that all the countries should put their
own national backstops in place and we have wanted to underline
that it is the private sector’s responsibility to solve their
own problems,” Katainen said.  The European Parliament supports the commission’s proposal
to create a Single Resolution Mechanism and a central fund to
help handle struggling banks, said the legislature’s president,
 Martin Schulz . Lawmakers are prepared to work to reach agreement
with nations “in the coming months,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Brussels at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  