-- EU Nations Said Due to Decide on CO2-Fix Mandate Nov. 8
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-10-25T15:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/eu-nations-said-due-to-decide-on-co2-fix-mandate-nov-8.html
European Union nations are due to
decide in two weeks whether to allow the start of talks on a
draft carbon-market fix with the region’s Parliament, according
to an EU presidency official.  Lithuania, which holds the rotating presidency of the 28-nation bloc, plans to seek approval for a negotiating mandate at
a meeting of ambassadors from member states on Nov. 8 in
Brussels, said the official, who asked not to be identified,
citing policy. EU carbon permits jumped as much as 8.6 percent
on speculation that work will accelerate on the rescue plan,
which aims to help emission prices recover from record lows by
temporarily curbing supply of allowances at auctions.  The presidency, which will conduct talks with the European
Parliament on behalf of member states, plans to propose nations
accept the draft measure as amended by the assembly in July,
according to the official. That would enable fast conclusion of
the negotiations, in which the parliamentary team will be lead
by Matthias Groote, the chairman of the environment committee.  “A green light for the talks on Nov. 8 is likely to make
auction curbs significantly more certain and raise the prospects
of implementation earlier than many had anticipated,” said
Itamar Orlandi, analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in
 London . “Delays of carbon auctions could start as early as in
June 2014.”  Carbon Jumps  EU allowances for December were trading 6.9 percent higher
at 4.99 euros ($6.88) a metric ton as of 3:29 p.m. in London
after earlier reaching a high of 5.07 euros the ICE Futures
Europe exchange. They slumped to a record 2.46 euros in April on
concerns that policy makers may fail to approve the rescue plan,
proposed to alleviate a record surplus in the 53 billion-euro
cap-and-trade carbon program.  To get the mandate, Lithuania will need 260 out of 352
government votes in the EU weighted-ballot system, which favors
bigger countries. The presidency’s previous attempt at winning
the authorization to start talks with the Parliament failed on
Sept. 11, when countries including Poland and Cyprus objected
and nations such as  Germany  and Spain remained undecided.
Abstentions are counted as votes against in the EU system.  If supporters of the measure are short of a qualified
majority, the presidency may decide to postpone the vote.  Strong Signal  German Chancellor Angela Merkel came out in favor of the
carbon fix, known as backloading, in her first post-election
speech on Oct. 16. Her comments that a “certain degree” of
backloading is needed to restore carbon prices to a sensible
level were a “very strong” signal, Groote, a German lawmaker
from the Socialists and Democrats group in the EU assembly, said
in an interview the following day.  Merkel’s party is in talks
to form a coalition with the Social Democrats, the main
opposition party in the previous parliament.  “The scheduled Nov. 8 date for a mandate decision implies
that Germany’s interim government will support the backloading
decision, without waiting for coalition talks in Berlin to
conclude,” Orlandi said. “It is however likely that the next
coalition will support backloading.”  Should the mandate get approval from member states, talks
with the EU Parliament can be as quick as several minutes,
Groote said last week. Their outcome will need to be backed by
the assembly and by ministers before the backloading measure
becomes a law.  That would mark the first stage of the legislative process
to curb the supply of emission allowances. In the next stage
representatives of member states will need to vote on the
details of backloading, including the exact timing and volume,
in a process known as comitology. Their decision will be subject
to a three-month scrutiny by ministers and by the European
Parliament, which won’t need to hold a vote on the measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  