-- EU Seeks Spy Rules With U.S. After Merkel Hacking Charge
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-10-25T10:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/eu-seeks-spy-rules-with-u-s-after-merkel-hacking-charge.html
European leaders condemned the
reported U.S. hacking of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
mobile phone and said they will seek trans-Atlantic accords on
espionage practices.  Merkel and French President  Francois Hollande  spearheaded
calls for closer cooperation among secret services, trying to
move past the dismay provoked by this week’s revelations of U.S.
eavesdropping in Germany and  France .  “A rule of good conduct is that you don’t bug the portable
phones of people you meet regularly at international summits,”
Hollande told reporters early today after the first session of a
meeting of European Union leaders in Brussels.  At the same time, EU leaders joined the Obama
administration in pursuing damage control, rejecting calls from
some European politicians for a suspension of trans-Atlantic
trade talks that have export-oriented  Germany  as a prime backer.  Anger among the U.S. allies in  Europe  was stoked this week
by reports in Spiegel magazine that Merkel was a National
Security Agency target and in Le Monde that U.S. spies
intercepted and recorded 70.3 million pieces of
“telecommunications data” in France from Dec. 10, 2012, to
Jan. 8, 2013.  Ambassadors Summoned  Germany and France summoned U.S. ambassadors to respond to
the allegations, which were based on documents made public by
fugitive former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, now living under
asylum in  Russia .  U.S. officials are warning foreign intelligence agencies
that Snowden may have obtained documents detailing their
cooperation with the American government, the Washington Post
reported on its website. Some of the agencies are in countries
that aren’t publicly allied with the U.S., the newspaper
reported, citing unidentified U.S. officials.  Merkel went into the EU meeting by denouncing “spying
among friends” and came out of it sidestepping the question of
whether she sought an apology from President  Barack Obama  in a
call on Oct. 23. “What matters now is looking to the future,”
she said. “It’s not a question of good words but of possible
changes.”  Germany and France each set an end-of-year deadline to
strike “frameworks for cooperation” on intelligence collection
with the U.S. A statement signed by all 28 EU government leaders
said that other countries might follow suit.  “We have diplomatic relations and channels that we use in
order to discuss these issues that have clearly caused some
tension in our relationships with other nations around the
world,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  Two Phones  Merkel, now negotiating a coalition accord for her third
term as chancellor, said she has two cell phones, one for
managing the government’s business, the other for her role as
leader of the Christian Democratic Union party.  Separately, the  Guardian newspaper  reported that a U.S.
government official gave the NSA phone numbers of 35 world
leaders for tracking. A classified memo leaked by Snowden
discloses that the NSA sought telephone numbers from officials
at the White House and the defense and state departments, the
 Guardian  reported.  The memo dated October 2006 -- during the administration of
President  George W. Bush  -- didn’t name the world leaders or the
U.S. official who provided the numbers, according to the U.K.-
based newspaper.  Rule Breaking  “It’s fundamental philosophy not to spy on partners like
this, you just don’t,” Hans-Georg Wieck, a former president of
Germany’s BND spy agency, said yesterday in a telephone
interview from his Berlin home. “Break that rule and you better
be ready for the political consequences.”  Carney said the Obama administration is reviewing
surveillance policies and repeated that the U.S. “is not and
will not monitor the chancellor’s communications.” He refused
to answer a question about whether the U.S. had spied on Merkel
in the past.  Carney said the U.S. doesn’t expect the controversy over
surveillance to imperil talks on a trans-Atlantic trade
agreement. In Brussels, no EU leader echoed a call by European
Parliament President  Martin Schulz  to suspend the talks.  “There has to be a moment where we interrupt,” Schulz
said. “When I go into a negotiation and fear that the other
side, a friendly democracy, has conducted espionage to find out
what I’ll say in the negotiations, then we’re not at the same
level anymore.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  