-- European Stocks Post Third Weekly Gain on Earnings, Fed
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-10-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/european-stocks-post-third-weekly-gain-on-earnings-fed.html
European stocks  posted a third
weekly gain as companies from Royal  Philips (PHIA)  NV to Akzo Nobel NV
reported profits that beat estimates and U.S. jobs data fueled
bets the  Federal Reserve  will wait until March to pare stimulus.  Philips and Akzo Nobel rose more than 5 percent. Celesio AG
jumped 13 percent after McKesson Corp. agreed to buy the German
drug wholesaler for 3.9 billion euros ($5.4 billion). Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc climbed 11 percent after saying it is in
talks to buy Scottish Widows Investment Partnership and form an
alliance with Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  increased 8.5
percent as quarterly profit rose 10 percent.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 0.5 percent to 320.09
this week, extending its rally so far this year to 14 percent.
The gauge climbed to a five-year high of 320.97 on Oct. 22 as it
capped a nine-day winning streak, the longest since June 2010.  “We have profit growth, not a lot of it but we have it,”
 Steven Bell , a London-based fund manager at F&C Asset
Management, which oversees $149 billion, said by telephone.
“That constitutes a lukewarm case for equities, but when you
consider the alternatives, the attractiveness becomes greater.”  In the U.S., payrolls climbed less than projected in
September, data released on Oct. 22, more than two weeks later
than scheduled showed.  Consumer confidence  in the world’s
largest economy fell to the weakest this year, according to
another report. A Bloomberg survey last week showed economists
expect the Fed to delay paring its bond purchases until March as
the government’s 16-day partial shutdown this month weighs on
fourth-quarter growth.  Missed Estimates  The addition of 148,000 workers by American employers
trailed the median projection in a Bloomberg survey for an
increase of 180,000. The  unemployment rate  fell to 7.2 percent,
the lowest level since November 2008.  “There’s still some slack in the  U.S. economy  and
employment continues to rise,” F&C’s Bell said. “The big
picture for the Fed is that the economy needs stimulus so let’s
give it.”  In  China , a private measure of manufacturing strengthened
more than forecast this month. The reading of 50.9 for the
purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics beat the 50.4 median estimate from analysts surveyed
by  Bloomberg News . Fifty is the threshold for expansion.  The advance reading of a composite index for euro-area
manufacturing and services dropped to 51.5 this month from 52.2
in September. The median economist forecast had called for an
increase to 52.4.  National benchmark indexes rose in 10 of the 18 western
European markets this week. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  advanced 1.5
percent.  Germany ’s DAX gained 1.4 percent to a record.  France ’s
CAC 40 fell 0.3 percent.  Daimler Earnings  Philips climbed 5.4 percent. The world’s biggest lighting
manufacturer said third-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
amortization and one-time items rose to 634 million euros,
compared with the 567 million-euro average estimate.  Akzo Nobel gained 6 percent. The Dutch maker of Dulux paint
said Ebitda climbed 7 percent to 456 million euros. Analysts on
average had estimated 444 million euros.  Celesio jumped 13 percent for the  biggest weekly gain  in
the Stoxx 600. McKesson, the largest U.S. pharmaceutical
distributor, agreed to buy a majority stake in the German
company and make a tender offer for the remaining publicly
traded stock.  Aberdeen Asset Management,  Scotland ’s largest  fund manager ,
added 11 percent. The company said it’s in talks with Lloyds
about a possible acquisition of the lender’s Scottish Widows
unit and the formation of a “strategic partnership.”  ABB Advances  ABB rallied 8.5 percent. The  world’s biggest maker of power
transformers  said third-quarter net income rose to $835 million.
The average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
called for $789 million.  Software AG surged 12 percent after reiterating that its
business-process unit will increase revenue by as much as 22
percent this year. Germany’s second-biggest software maker also
announced a share buyback.  STMicroelectronics NV tumbled 12 percent. Europe’s biggest
semiconductor maker reported lower sales and a $142 million net
loss in the third quarter. STMicro also delayed a profitability
target after splitting up its venture with Ericsson AB.  Kering SA (KER)  fell 2.7 percent after its Gucci brand posted the
worst sales growth in four years as demand waned in China. The
luxury-goods maker said third-quarter sales from continuing
operations slid to 2.52 billion euros. Analysts in a Bloomberg
survey had predicted 2.55 billion euros.  Renault SA declined 3.3 percent. The French carmaker said
weaker emerging-market currencies cut third-quarter revenue by
3.2 percent to 8 billion euros. That missed the 8.5 billion-euro
average forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  