-- Lewis Lapham: Eager Heirs Used Arsenic to Speed Process
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2013-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/lewis-lapham-eager-heirs-used-arsenic-to-speed-process.html
On Nov. 2, 1833, Plumstead village
landowner George Bodle had toast and coffee for breakfast. Soon
after, he felt a horrible burning sensation from throat to
stomach, along with cramps, projectile vomiting and massive
diarrhea.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  Digestive upsets were common in those days, but it was odd
that the entire household had gotten sick at the same time. When
the doctor arrived, he suspected poison.  Arsenic trioxide is a colorless, tasteless white powder
that disperses in hot food and drink. It was easily available
over the counter as a pesticide. Lethal in small doses, it
became known as the “inheritor’s powder,” the drug of choice
for impatient heirs.  Plain-living Bodle had built up a fortune of 20,000 pounds,
about $2 million in current terms. Everyone else recovered, but
the old man died three days later. In a then-rare move, the
doctor collected forensic samples at the house and took his
suspicions to the magistrate.  When bags of arsenic were found in the possession of
Bodle’s grandson, he was arrested and tried.  I spoke with Sandra Hempel, author of “The Inheritor’s
Powder: A Tale of Arsenic Murder and the New Forensic Science,”
on the following topics:  1. Arsenic-Laced Coffee.  2. Circumstantial Evidence.  3. Toxicology Tests.  4. Poison Panic.  5. Culprit Confesses.  To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for  Bloomberg News .)  Muse highlights include Zinta Lundborg on NYC  Weekend  and
 Greg Evans  on  movies .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in  New York  at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 