-- Texas Regulators Support Mandatory Reserves for Power Market
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-10-25T19:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/texas-regulators-support-mandatory-reserves-for-power-market.html
Texas  regulators voiced support for
requiring the state’s power companies to have access to extra
electricity during times of peak demand, changes that may lead
to additional payments for generators.  Public Utility Commission Chairman Donna Nelson and
Commissioner Brandy Marty indicated a preference for mandating
reserve margins at a regularly scheduled meeting today in
Austin, Texas, Terry Hadley, an agency spokesman, said in a
phone interview. Commissioner Ken Anderson, who holds the third
vote at the agency, opposed the move.  “It appears quite clear two commissioners support the
policy of a mandatory reserve margin, which is perceived by many
to be the first step on a road to a centralized capacity
market,”  Paul Patterson , a New York-based analyst with Glenrock
Associates LLC, said in a phone interview.  The commission didn’t vote on any proposal today, saying it
would await a power market resource adequacy report due in
January. A reserve margin would require a minimum amount of
excess capacity for peak-demand periods and may lead to the
establishment of a so-called capacity market that pays
generators for having available electricity. Other regional
power organizations, including PJM Interconnection LLC, have
installed capacity markets to encourage adequate future
supplies.  Calpine Corp. (CPN) , the state’s third-largest generator, rose
7.3 percent to $20.99 at 3:32 p.m. in New York, the biggest
intraday increase in almost two years.  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , the
second-largest power provider, gained 6.6 percent to $30.04. The
largest power company in Texas, Luminant, is owned by closely
held Energy Future Holdings Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  