-- Mexican Peso Rallies as Central Bank Signals Halt to Rate Cuts
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-10-25T15:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/mexican-peso-rallies-as-central-bank-signals-halt-to-rate-cuts.html
Mexico ’s peso rose as the central
bank signaled it will halt cuts in borrowing costs after
lowering the target lending rate to a record to support  Latin
America ’s second-largest economy.  The currency gained 0.9 percent to 12.8571 per  U.S. dollar 
at 10:06 a.m. in Mexico City, the most among major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after  Brazil ’s real. The peso was little
changed for the week.  Central bank board members said today in the statement
accompanying their decision to reduce the  target lending rate  by
a quarter-percentage point to 3.5 percent that more cuts weren’t
recommended in the foreseeable future. The policy makers cited
signs of economic recovery.  “It was very explicit,” Italo Lombardi, an economist at
Standard Chartered Plc, said in a phone interview from  New York .
“They basically said, ‘This is it. We’re done.’ In that sense,
it does surprise a lot.”  Yields on fixed-rate bonds maturing in December 2014 rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to a two-week high
of 3.57 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yields were up two basis points for the week.  Mexico policy makers cut borrowing costs for a third time
this year to stoke economic growth, which is projected to be the
slowest since 2009. While 21 of 26  economists  surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast the decision, three forecast a 50 basis point
reduction and two expected the central bank to hold the target
rate steady.  “Additional reductions to the benchmark  interest rate 
aren’t recommended in the foreseeable future,” the central bank
said in its statement. “Taking into account the expected fiscal
policy, the board considers that the monetary stance is in line
with” inflation slowing to the 3 percent target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  