-- Mexico Trims Key Rate to 3.5% Saying More Cuts Not Advisable
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-10-25T21:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/mexico-cuts-key-rate-for-second-straight-month-as-growth-falters.html
Mexico’s central bank cut the
benchmark interest rate to a record low and signaled that this
will be the last reduction in borrowing costs. Interest rate
swaps increased.  Banco de Mexico  reduced the overnight  lending rate  by 25
basis points to a record-low 3.50 percent, saying that reducing
borrowing costs below this level wouldn’t be advisable. The cut
was forecast by 21 of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Three
expected a half-point reduction, while two predicted rates would
stay on hold.  “Additional reductions to the benchmark interest rate
aren’t recommended in the foreseeable future,” the central bank
said in the statement accompanying the decision. “Taking into
account the expected fiscal policy, the board considers that the
monetary stance is in line with” inflation slowing to the 3
percent target.  Six-month interest rate swaps rose seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 3.83 percent after the rate decision.
The peso gained 0.7 percent to 12.8812 per  U.S. dollar  at 5:17
p.m. in Mexico City.  The central bank’s signal that it won’t reduce  interest
rates  further means Mexico will be counting on  government
spending  to spur an economic rebound, said  Alonso Cervera , chief
Mexico economist for Credit Suisse Group AG.  Government Spending  “The bank has done its job bringing down inflation and
stimulating the economy,” Cervera said in an e-mailed response
to questions after the decision. “Now it’s the turn for fiscal
policy to spur growth.”  Annual inflation in the first half of October eased to 3.27
percent, the slowest since January.  President Enrique Pena Nieto plans to step up spending next
year and run a  budget deficit  in a bid to jump-start an economy
that expanded in the first half of the year at the slowest pace
since contracting in 2009 amid the global financial crisis.  The government has lowered its 2013 economic growth
forecast by more than half as a drop in public spending, stalled
exports and the devastation from twin hurricanes curtailed
demand and investments.  The central bank reduced the key rate by a quarter point on
Sept. 6 in a 3-to-2 vote. The move surprised all but one of 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, who expected borrowing costs to
be kept unchanged. In March, policy makers had already surprised
economists by reducing borrowing costs by half a percentage
point.  Growth Forecast  The government cut its growth forecast to 1.7 percent last
month from 3.5 percent at the start of the year, after
 industrial production  contracted 0.6 percent in the second
quarter and retail sales  shrank  in two of the past three months.  Economists estimate an even lower annual expansion rate of
1.2 percent for this year, one-third the pace of last year’s 3.9
percent growth, according to an Oct. 22 survey by Citigroup
Inc.’s Banamex unit. They expect inflation to end the year at
3.53 percent, down from the 3.69 percent they projected Oct. 7.  Slower growth in the second half of this year will help
rein in consumer-price increases, the central bank said today.
 Annual inflation  has slowed in each of the past five months to
3.39 percent in September. The central bank targets inflation of
3 percent.  Company Sales  Subdued demand is cutting into companies’ sales. Firms on
the stock exchange have reported third-quarter net income of 3.7
billion pesos ($290 million) through 4 p.m. in Mexico City, 21
percent less than analysts’ estimates, according to data
 compiled  by Bloomberg. Earnings season ends Oct. 28.  Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker in the Americas, said
its third-quarter sales in Mexico dropped 11 percent to $776
million, the smallest revenue figure in more than three years in
the company’s home market.  “In Mexico, our volumes during the quarter continued to
reflect the slower-than-expected levels of investment in
infrastructure and housing,” Cemex Chief Financial Officer
 Fernando Gonzalez  said in a conference call with analysts and
investors Oct. 24.  Government spending fell 2.7 percent in real terms to 2.5
trillion pesos in the first eight months of 2013 compared with
the year-earlier period, according to the  Finance Ministry .  The government is requesting authorization from Congress to
run a budget deficit equivalent to 1.5 percent of gross domestic
product in 2014 to help jump-start the economy after congress
approved a balanced budget for this year. The president is also
proposing an end to the 75-year state monopoly on oil drilling
to attract foreign investment.  Rafael De la Fuente, an economist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said the government’s proposal to increase the
deficit may have influenced Banxico’s decision to signal there
won’t be further rate cuts.  Banxico has seen “enough signs that the worst of the
downturn is behind us,” De la Fuente said in a telephone
interview. “The fiscal package is probably not as aggressive as
they would have liked in terms of ensuring long-term macro-economic stability and how that pertains to inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in  Mexico  City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  