-- Global Trade Flows Show Exports Are No Magic Bullet
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-10-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/export-slowdown-threatens-world-economy.html
When HSBC Holdings Plc’s economists
from around the world recently pooled their forecasts, virtually
all had a similar source of growth in mind for the region they
monitored: exports.  The impossibility of every nation being able to sell more
than it buys means some of the analysts must be wrong -- unless
the rest of the solar system becomes a source of demand for the
globe’s products,  Stephen King , HSBC’s chief economist, told an
Oct. 16 conference in London, flashing a slide of the planets.  “Export claims are just far too optimistic,” said King, a
former U.K. Treasury official.  The bet on trade is flopping for companies and policy
makers who had hoped it would power recoveries held back by weak
domestic demand. This week alone,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Unilever (UNA) 
complained of sliding overseas buying and data showed global
trade volumes fell in August by the most since February.  Trade is falling short as  emerging markets  from Brazil to
India slow and the  dollar  resumes a slide abetted by the  Federal
Reserve ’s maintaining stimulus. The deterioration in cross-border commerce could provoke a response from policy makers
eager to protect their expansions and even clashes between them
if it endures, said Simon Evenett, professor of international
trade at the University of  St. Gallen  in Switzerland.  “Trade would have picked up much more in a normal
recovery,” Evenett said in a phone interview. “The outlook is
more of the same as there is much more economic uncertainty than
at the start of the year.”  Dropping Volume  An Oct. 24 report highlighted the issue: The Hague-based
CPB Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy Analysis estimated
global trade volume fell 0.8 percent in August, eroding a 1.8
percent jump of the previous month. It was the weakest
performance since a 1.1 percent decline in February and left the
three-month average lagging its historical pace.  Data from individual countries reflects the gloom. The U.S.
trade gap was little changed in August at $38.8 billion as
exports fell 0.1 percent and imports barely budged. Chinese
exports unexpectedly fell in September and shipments from Taiwan
and South Korea also declined. Even with the yen falling this
year, the volume of Japanese exports fell last month.  The outlook may only be slightly better next year. The
 World Trade Organization  last month cut its forecasts for trade
growth in 2013 and 2014 to 2.5 percent and 4.5 percent
respectively, both below the 20-year average of 5.4 percent. The
 International Monetary Fund  reflected such projections two weeks
ago when it cut its own forecasts for worldwide economic growth
to 2.9 percent this year and 3.6 percent next year.  Emerging Weakening  The trade slowdown stems mostly from developing nations,
which had powered the world out of its 2009 recession. The IMF
pared its prediction for 2013 growth in emerging economies to
4.5 percent from 5 percent. Some countries, including China, are
also trying to rebalance their economies toward greater domestic
demand after running up outsized current account surpluses.  Caterpillar, the biggest maker of construction and mining
equipment, cut its 2013 sales and profit forecast on Oct. 23.
The Peoria, Illinois-based company cited a slump in demand from
commodity producers and uncertainties about global growth.
Rolling global three-month retail machine sales fell for a 10th
month, led by declines in the Asia-Pacific region.  “There are encouraging signs, but there is also a good
deal of uncertainty worldwide as we look ahead to 2014,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said in a
statement.  Slowing Sales  The next day, London-and-Rotterdam-based Unilever, the
world’s second-biggest consumer-products maker, reported the
weakest quarterly sales growth in four years. Demand fell in
emerging markets, where it generates more than half of its
revenue, and failed to pick up in North America or Europe.
Revenue growth in developing economies alone slowed to 5.9
percent compared with 12 percent in the same period last year.  All the news isn’t bad. A new leading indicator published
this week by economists at UniCredit SpA and based on inputs
including activity at Chinese sea ports and in air cargo signals
a “significant recovery” in global trade in coming few months.  Even in paring its forecasts, the Geneva-based WTO last
month noted “conditions for improved trade are gradually
falling into place.” It pointed to an improvement in purchasing
managers’ indexes, an easing of the European debt turmoil and
recent stabilization in  China’s economy .  Dollar Support?  Policy makers may still be forced to react to protect their
economies should exports cease to support expansion. If the
dollar continues to decline as the Federal Reserve maintains its
quantitative easing program, the  Bank of Japan  and  European
Central Bank  will be more likely to provide greater stimulus,
says  Joachim Fels , co-chief global economist at Morgan Stanley
in London.  The  Bank of Canada  already this week noted the lack of an
anticipated pick-up in exports as it dropped language about the
need for future interest rate increases.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG and  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
SA (MC)  are among the European companies bemoaning the euro’s
unexpectedly rally this year. German airline Lufthansa this week
cited the euro when its profit estimate fell short of analysts’
forecasts, while Parisian luxury goods-maker LVMH said the
currency’s gain lopped 6 percent off third-quarter revenue.  A declining dollar may also antagonize trade partners,
rekindling the so-called currency wars of recent years and
posing another threat to the world economy, said  Neil Mellor , a
foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of  New York  Mellon in
London. The dollar has declined 5 percent on a trade-weighted
basis since mid-July.  Watching Closely  The  Bank of Korea  is closely watching the rise in the won
and will act to curb excessive speculative behavior, Ryoo Sang
Dai, director general at the Bank of Korea’s international
department, said on Oct. 24. New Zealand central bank Governor
Graeme Wheeler yesterday called his dollar “very strong,”
although he saw no opportunity to intervene.  Reserve Bank  of
Australia Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said that a “further
depreciation” in Australia’s exchange rate would be helpful.  “We suspect that this week we have witnessed the beginning
of what may prove to be a sustained period of currency
commentary by officialdom,” said Mellor.  Protectionism is also on the rise despite pledges to avoid
it by the Group of 20 leading industrial and developing
economies, according to Evenett. He estimates 337 measures have
been imposed worldwide so far this year after 503 in 2012.  There are nevertheless hopes of new free-trade pacts. Talks
are ongoing to create the Trans-Pacific Partnership, an 11-nation free-trade zone linking an area with about $26 trillion
in annual economic output. The U.S. and European Union are also
discussing a deal; Canada and the EU signed an accord last week.  “You could hope to get a boost to the global economy if
you were able to remove a lot of existing barriers or if there
was a breakthrough in trade negotiations,” said Andrew Kenningham, an economist at  Capital Economics  in London. That
could all help but it doesn’t seem likely soon.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  