-- Fastest-Growing Emissions Source Won’t Get Canada Review
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-10-25T21:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/fastest-growing-emissions-source-won-t-get-canada-review.html
Oil-sands projects that use methods
such as underground steam injection rather than open-pit mining
to extract bitumen will be excluded from mandatory environmental
reviews by the Canadian government under proposed regulations.  Projects that use so-called in-situ methods,  Canada ’s
fastest-growing source of climate-warming emissions, aren’t
listed on an  amendment  to a law regarding approvals by the
Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency. Environment Canada
predicts emissions from in-situ projects, including those using
steam to melt bitumen, will rise 44 percent by 2020 from 2005.  Producers including  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and  Cenovus Energy
Inc. (CVE)  are among companies contributing to a more than fivefold
forecast rise in bitumen output from in-situ methods over the
same period as it becomes the dominant way to develop oil-sands
projects, according to a  report  yesterday by the environment
department. Without further measures to curb carbon output,
Canada won’t meet its pledge to lower emissions by 2020, the
department said in the report.  “Eighty percent of the resource is only accessible by in-situ technology,” Keith Stewart, a climate and energy analyst
at Greenpeace Canada in Toronto, said in a phone interview
today, pointing out a leak continues at  Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd. (CNQ) ’s Primrose in-situ project. “Each well is small
but when you add up hundreds of them, it’s massive.”  All oil sands projects would be reviewed by the provincial
government.  Canada announced last year it would make changes to
streamline environmental reviews and reduce their number by only
assessing major projects. The Canadian Environmental Assessment
Agency will review oil sands mining projects that produce more
than 10,000 cubic meters of oil a day, or about 60,000 barrels,
according to the amendment posted online yesterday.  The environment minister can still choose to review
projects not required under law, such as where there may be
“adverse environmental effects related to federal jurisdiction
or public concerns about those effects,” said Isabelle
Perrault, a spokeswoman for the Canadian Environmental
Assessment Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  