-- FDIC Regulation Squeezing CLO Creation in U.S., Barclays Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2013-10-25T17:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/fdic-regulation-squeezing-clo-creation-in-u-s-barclays-says.html
Creation of collateralized loan
obligations has slowed in the seven months since a new federal
regulation made it more expensive for U.S. banks to invest in
the funds, according to Barclays Plc.  A rule by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. that went
into effect on April 1 costs banks more to own the AAA rated
slice of CLOs, the biggest and safest portion of the funds that
buy high-yield, high-risk corporate loans. Spreads on the top-ranked piece have increased by about 30 basis points, while the
cost of the underlying debt bought by CLOs has declined,
according to Barclays. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  While the funds, which help finance buyouts, have raised
$64 billion this year, the most since a record $104.7 billion in
2007, the pace of issuance is down from the first three months
of 2013, according to Wells Fargo & Co. The increased cost of
the safest piece of the loan funds makes it harder for money
managers who create CLOs to sell them because it means they will
have less cash to compensate investors taking on the most risk
in the pools.  “The more challenging arb has slowed CLO creation, which
is likely to remain lower until AAA spreads compress,” Barclays
analysts led by Bradley Rogoff wrote in a research report today.
“These trends have squeezed projected equity tranche returns.”  CLOs purchase junk-grade loans and package them into
securities of varying risk and return, typically from AAA
ratings down to BB. The lowest portion, known as the equity
tranche, offers the highest potential return and the greatest
risk.  Dodd-Frank  “We estimate the difference in equity tranche returns for
deals printed today versus early April as 3.5 percent, a
significant decline,” the analysts wrote.  Under the new rule, banks insured by the FDIC that have
assets of $10 billion or more have to assign a higher cost
for holding assets such as leveraged loans, including the top-rated slices of CLOs. The rule is part of the sweeping financial
overhaul mandated by Dodd-Frank following the 2008 bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Since the FDIC rule took effect, spreads on the AAA pieces
have increased to 135 basis points from 108 basis points in the
secondary market, according to Barclays. While the top-rated
slices of new CLOs being sold to investors have spreads ranging
from 135 basis points to 145 basis points, the average cost of
performing leveraged loans has declined to 444 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate, from a spread of 463
basis points, the analysts said in the report.  Leveraged loans are a type of junk-rated debt ranked less
than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and below BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  