-- Fed Tightens Procedures Governing FOMC Policy Statement Release
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-10-25T22:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/fed-tightens-procedures-governing-fomc-policy-statement-release.html
The  Federal Reserve  will tighten
procedures governing the release of Federal Open Market
Committee policy statements to prevent early release of the
market-moving information.  “Starting with the Oct. 30 FOMC statement, our media
release security procedures will be enhanced to include
additional controls,” Fed spokesman  David Skidmore  said today
in a statement. “We consulted with news organizations and we
believe these additional measures will protect against premature
release while still allowing news organizations an opportunity
to accurately report the FOMC’s actions at the release time.”  The central bank’s process for releasing the statement came
under scrutiny after trading in financial instruments linked to
gold in New York and Chicago occurred quickly after the release
of the Fed’s policy statement on Sept. 18. Trading in gold
futures and exchange-traded funds linked to gold intensified
within a millisecond of 2 p.m. eastern time that day, according
to Nanex LLC, a firm that analyzes high-frequency trading.  The quick response was unusual because information takes
seven milliseconds to travel to  Chicago  from  Washington , where
the Fed statement is released, according to Nanex. The time
between Washington and New York is two milliseconds, Nanex said.  The Fed plans to release an FOMC statement at 2 p.m. on
Oct. 30 after a two-day meeting of the committee.  The central bank previously released the FOMC statement at
the press room of the U.S. Treasury Department. Journalists were
given the statement about 10 minutes early on condition that
they refrain from publication until 2 p.m., as measured by the
U.S. Naval Observatory’s master clock.  News Organizations  Bloomberg News  is among several news organizations that
participate in the so-called lockup.  The prior procedures did not address whether news
organizations could store the information in advance on remote
servers and time it for release at 2 p.m. Such servers could be
located in trading centers such as Chicago or  New York ,
eliminating the time it takes for the data to travel from
Washington.  Under the new procedures, journalists will gather in a room
at  the Fed  headquarters in Washington, and won’t have access to
the Internet until the 2 p.m. release time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  