-- Fernandez Strives to Hold Argentine Congress as Transition Nears
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-25T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/fernandez-strives-to-hold-argentine-congress-as-transition-nears.html
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is battling to retain a majority in
Congress to maintain policies that have spooked investors as
support for her coalition plunges to a 10-year low.  Fernandez’s candidates in Oct. 27 mid-term congressional
elections are set to replicate results of an August primary in
which support for her Victory Front coalition fell to 26 percent
from 54 percent when she was re-elected in 2011, according to a
survey by Management & Fit. Her leading candidate in Buenos
Aires province, Martin Insaurralde, had 33.3 percent support
against 40.5 percent for former Cabinet Chief Sergio Massa,
according to the Oct. 11-17 poll of 800 people, which had a
margin of error of 2.3 percentage points.  While dwindling support makes it unlikely that Fernandez
will secure enough seats to push through a constitutional change
to allow her to seek a third term in 2015, the composition of
Congress won’t change significantly, said political analyst
Carlos Fara. Control of parliament will enable Fernandez to
extend policies that included the seizure of private pension
funds and the country’s biggest energy company, increased limits
on imports and a clampdown on foreign currency purchases.  “She won’t be weakened very much,” Fara said in an
interview from Buenos Aires. “The balance of power in the two
houses won’t be changed enough to complicate things for her.”  The constitution bans presidents from serving more than two
consecutive terms. Fernandez would need two-thirds backing in
both houses of Congress to modify the constitution.  Election Losses  Fernandez’s coalition stands to lose three seats in both
the Senate and lower house, according Rosendo Fraga, director of
the New Majority consulting company in Buenos Aires.  “In both cases, if you include other allies, it will
maintain a slight majority,” Fraga wrote on his company’s
 website . Argentina’s 31 million voters will choose 127 of 257
lower house congressmen and 24 of the 72 senators. The Victory
Front currently holds 111 seats in the lower house and 32 in the
Senate.  Since her re-election, Fernandez, 60, has won congressional
backing for all her initiatives, including the April 2012
expropriation of oil producer YPF SA from Spain’s Repsol SA.
More recently, the 2014 budget bill was approved by 40 senators,
three more than required, and 134 deputies, five more than
needed.  With average yields of 11.62 percent, South America’s
second-largest economy has been unwilling to borrow
internationally since defaulting on a record $95 billion in
2001. Investors pay the highest price in the world to insure
Argentine debt against non-payment with five year credit-default
swaps. The contracts rose 41 basis points to 1,735 basis points
yesterday, according to data compiled by CMA Ltd.  Crime, Inflation  As crime surged and inflation quickened, Fernandez’s
approval rating plunged to a three-year low of 29.8 percent in
December 2012. The latest survey, taken by Management & Fit Oct.
11-18 following her Oct. 8 surgery to remove a blood clot near
her brain, showed approval recovering to 44.4 percent. Fernandez
was ordered to rest for 30 days after the operation.  Investors, who bought into a 14 percent rally in Argentine
bonds since the Aug. 11 primaries on expectations that Fernandez
will be replaced by a more market-friendly government in 2015,
aren’t taking account of the more immediate risks of rising
inflation,  dwindling reserves  and the possibility the country
may default for a second time in 12 years, said Jorge Piedrahita, chief executive officer at Torino Capital LLC.  “I see the government making some small adjustments here
and there but I don’t see a fundamental change,” Piedrahita
said in a telephone interview from New York.  Declining Reserves  International reserves have dropped at a pace of about $1
billion a month this year to a six-year low of $34 billion,
raising fears among investors the government may run out of
funds to pay international creditors.  Fernandez has used $39 billion of central bank reserves
since her March 2010 decree authorizing the use of the funds to
pay foreign debt. A further $9.9 billion will be used in 2014,
according to Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino.  Fernandez may respond to a poor showing in elections by
increasing spending or cutting taxes as she tries to recoup
support, according to Morgan Stanley. Such measures may stoke
inflation that’s already the fastest in the region after
 Venezuela , Morgan Stanley said in an Oct. 11 note to clients.  Consumer prices rose 10.5 percent in September from a year
earlier, according to the government. That compares with a 25.4
percent increase estimated by private economists in a report
issued by opposition lawmakers. In February, Argentina became
the first country to be censured by the International Monetary
Fund for reporting inaccurate economic data.  Increased Spending  Fernandez has already increased spending on social programs
in the run-up to the election. In July, she boosted pensions by
14 percent and raised minimum wages 25 percent. Increased public
spending contributed to 8.3 percent  economic expansion  in the
second quarter, the fastest pace in about two years, according
to the national statistics agency.  Fernandez will begin the final two years of her mandate
locked in a U.S. court battle with owners of bonds left over
from the 2001 default. The holdouts, whom Fernandez and her
senior officials call “vultures,” refused to enter debt
restructurings in 2005 and 2010 that gave creditors new bonds at
30 cents on the dollar for their defaulted securities, the
harshest sovereign restructuring since World War II.  Default Speculation  Fernandez’s insistence that she will pay holdouts no more
than in previous restructurings has spurred speculation by
investors the country would opt to default rather than obey U.S.
court rulings in favor of creditors, including billionaire
investor Paul Singer’s Elliott Management Corp. Argentina is
appealing the rulings.  In 2009, Fernandez lost control of Congress in the
aftermath of a strike by farmers protesting plans to raise taxes
on agricultural exports. The dispute caused food shortages and
roadblocks across the country. She bounced back to win a second
term in 2011 with the biggest electoral victory since Juan Domingo Peron returned from exile in 1973.  Emboldened by her success, Fernandez introduced currency
controls and tightened import restrictions to stem capital
outflows. Foreign exchange controls have spawned a parallel
market where Argentines pay more than 70 percent above the
official rate to obtain dollars.  Far from being a lame duck in her final two years,
Fernandez will command the strongest alliance in Argentina,
capable of mustering between a quarter and a third of votes in
any election, said Mario Toer, a professor of politics at the
University of Buenos Aires.  Kirchnerism, the movement spearheaded by Fernandez and her
late husband and predecessor Nestor Kirchner, who died of a
heart attack in 2010, is still strong, Toer said. Even with a
change of government in 2015, Fernandez may look to consolidate
support in her final two years with a view to returning to power
in 2019, he said.  “This is still an open game - Kirchnerism arrived on the
political scene to stay,” Toer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Buenos Aires at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  