-- Fintech Urges Court to Keep Delay on Argentina Bond Order
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-10-25T22:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/fintech-urges-court-to-keep-delay-on-argentina-bond-order.html
Fintech Advisory Inc. asked a
federal appeals court to keep in place a stay that delays
enforcement of a ruling against Argentina in litigation over
that country’s defaulted bonds.  Fintech, which holds restructured Argentine debt, asked the
U.S. Court of Appeals in New York to reject a request by holders
of $1.5 billion of the defaulted bonds, led by Elliott
Management Corp.’s NML Capital and Aurelius Capital Management
LP, to enforce the ruling immediately. The appeals court
previously agreed to Argentina’s request for a stay while it
seeks to appeal the court’s decision to the U.S. Supreme Court.  Lifting the stay would threaten payments on the
restructured debt, the next of which are due Dec. 2.  The owners of the defaulted bonds cited a plan disclosed in
August by Argentina’s President, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner,
to avoid the jurisdiction of U.S. courts by exchanging the
restructured bonds, governed by New York law, for debt payable
under Argentina law.  In August, the appeals court upheld a lower-court
injunction that would bar Argentina from paying holders of the
restructured bonds if it fails to pay NML, Aurelius and the
other plaintiffs. A lawyer for Argentina told a three-judge
panel of the appeals court in February that the country “won’t
voluntarily comply” with a ruling against it.  Argentina in 2001 defaulted on a record $95 billion of
foreign debt. Holders of more than 90 percent of the bonds
agreed to take new exchange bonds in 2005 and 2010, at a deep
discount.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v.
Republic of Argentina, 12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  