-- Ex-Bankers Following Swiss Gain Traction Advising Asian Rich
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-10-25T02:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/former-bankers-following-swiss-gain-traction-advising-asian-rich.html
Independent asset managers, who
advise rich clients of private banks on their investments, may
at least triple the funds they oversee in  Asia  as demand for
specialized products rises, said  Taurus Wealth Advisors Pte .  Independent managers, mostly former bankers, will increase
the assets they advise on in the region to about $70 billion by
2017 after boosting them to about $20 billion now from $4
billion five years ago, Mandeep Nalwa, chief executive officer
of Singapore-based Taurus, estimated in an Oct. 23 interview.
Nalwa was a founding member of the Association of Independent
Asset Managers, which was formed in  Singapore  in March 2011,  The current asset total is less than 2 percent of the
amount Boston Consulting Group estimates is managed by private
banks in Singapore and Hong Kong. That compares with at least 15
percent of assets managed by private banks in Switzerland,
according to Bank Pictet & Cie Asia Ltd.  “Savvy investors would have more sophisticated needs that
require specialized knowledge or offerings in certain asset
classes or investment markets,” said David Reymond, Singapore-based head of the Asia desk that engages with independent asset
managers at  Julius Baer  Group Ltd. “While banks are certainly
well-equipped to assist clients in their financial matters and
investment decisions, one needs to acknowledge that they can’t
be the industry leader in all investment areas.”  Independent asset managers help their millionaire clients
choose and package a portfolio of investment products available
at various private banks including Julius Baer. The external
managers typically lead clients to banks or funds that
specialize in particular products such as tax-saving
instruments, asset-backed securities and commodities.  Global Assets  Each of the external advisers “have their niche, have
their forte,” said Cyrus Daruwala, Asia-Pacific managing
director of IDC Financial Insights, which provides research and
advice to financial companies. “There are some commonalities
that are expected -- they’re truly unbiased, truly independent,
truly profit-driven.”  Offshore wealth assets held in  Hong Kong  and Singapore
jumped 20 percent to $1.2 trillion last year as Asian
millionaires led by  China  chose those local financial centers
over  Europe ’s, according to a Boston Consulting Group study
released on May 31.  The two Asian cities are projected to hold about 18 percent
of global assets managed for people resident or domiciled in
other countries by 2017, compared with 15 percent in 2012, the
report said.  Asian Growth  There are about 30 independent asset managers in  Singapore ,
according to Sylvain Gysler, head of the Asia desk that deals
with those advisers at Swiss bank Pictet. Hong Kong has about
12, estimates Philippe Legrand, the Asia chief executive officer
of London & Capital Plc, an external asset manager.  Legrand has worked in  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and ABN Amro Group
NV’s private-banking divisions. Taurus’s Nalwa worked previously
at the wealth-management units of  Bank of America Corp. ’s
Merrill Lynch and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Independent managers in Switzerland account for a little
more than $300 billion of the $2.2 trillion of assets managed by
private banks there, said Pictet’s Gysler.  Buoyed by economic growth, Asians with at least $1 million
in investable assets are expected to see their riches climb to
$15.9 trillion by 2015 from $12 trillion last year, according to
 Cap Gemini  and Royal Bank of Canada’s 2013 Asia-Pacific Wealth
Report released on Sept. 25.  “The more the private banking industry matures in the
region, the more you will see senior private bankers wanting to
become independent and set up their own business,” said Hans Goetti, who worked at Citigroup and LGT Group before becoming
Asia chief investment officer of independent manager Finaport
Investment Intelligence. “In  Switzerland , the pinnacle of your
career is when you become independent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  