-- Genomma Lab Advances in Mexico as Third-Quarter Profit Improves
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-10-25T21:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/genomma-lab-advances-in-mexico-as-third-quarter-profit-improves.html
Genomma Lab Internacional SAB (LABB) , a
Mexican producer of over-the-counter drugs, jumped the most in
three weeks after a report showed profits and sales jumped in
the third quarter and a measure of cash generation improved.  The shares rose 6 percent to 33.67 pesos at the close of
trading in Mexico City, the most since Oct. 1 and the biggest
advance on the country’s benchmark IPC index of 35 companies.
The gauge rose 1.1 percent today.  Genomma Lab said yesterday that third-quarter profit rose
13 percent to 462.3 million pesos ($36 million) as sales grew 20
percent to 3.07 billion pesos. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization increased 21 percent 795.8 million
pesos. Sales outside of  Mexico  grew 60 percent to 1.05 billion
pesos.  The company has been “posting healthy growth rates amidst
a weak consumption environment in Latam,” Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts including Antonio Gonzalez and Armando Perez wrote
in an e-mailed report today. The cash conversion cycle “keeps
recovering, slowly.” Credit Suisse kept the equivalent of a
sell rating on the shares.  The cash conversion cycle, a measure of liquidity that
tracks how long it takes for the company to turn regular
investments into cash, fell to 144 days from 153 days in the
same period a year earlier.  Rodrigo Herrera, Genomma’s chief executive officer, said in
the e-mailed report that improving the cash conversion cycle was
“one of our top priorities.”  Grupo BTG Pactual said today in a research report that cash
generation remains “concerning,” maintaining its sell
recommendation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  