-- German Business Confidence Unexpectedly Fell in October
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-10-25T08:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/german-business-confidence-unexpectedly-fell-in-october.html
German business confidence
unexpectedly decreased for the first time in six months in
October amid uncertainty over the strength of the recovery in
the euro area.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, fell to 107.4 from 107.7 in
September. That compares with a median forecast of 108 in a
 Bloomberg News survey  of 39 economists.  German factory orders unexpectedly declined in August and
the Bundesbank said this week that growth probably slowed in the
third quarter after a 0.7 percent expansion in the three months
through June. At the same time, industrial production grew more
than economists predicted, unemployment  remains  near a two-decade low and investor sentiment is at the highest level in
more than three years.  “We would not see today’s downward correction as the
harbinger of a negative trend,” said Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in  London . “The pace of
activity is unlikely to accelerate sharply but we still expect
the solid foundation of the German economy to remain supportive
going forward.”  The euro fell after the report and traded at $1.3815 at
10:24 a.m. in  Frankfurt . European stocks remained lower, with
the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index down 0.2 percent today.  Preliminary Data  German gross domestic product probably increased 0.4
percent in the third quarter and will rise at the same pace in
the fourth, according to Bloomberg’s monthly economic survey
published on Oct. 10. The German Federal Statistics Office is
due to release preliminary data for the past quarter on Nov. 14.  The 17-nation euro area,  Germany ’s biggest trading partner
emerged from its  longest-ever recession  in the second quarter,
thanks in part to Germany’s economic strength. Since then
manufacturing and services output in the region has expanded,
according to a survey of  purchasing managers , and the Spanish
economy, the bloc’s fourth largest, has returned to growth.  Yet, there are still “broad-based weaknesses in the
economy” and the risks to the outlook continue “to be on the
downside,” European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi   said
this month .  The Frankfurt-based ECB predicts the currency bloc’s
economy will shrink 0.4 percent this year before growing 1
percent in 2014.  ‘Challenging Position’  “Europe overall in the next four years will have quite a
challenging position,” Henkel AG Chief Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted said in an interview with Bloomberg TV on Oct. 2. “We
don’t expect a lot of growth, if any at all in western Europe”
until 2017, he said.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  this week predicted operating profit
for 2013 that fell short of analysts’ estimates as restructuring
costs mount and the strong euro depresses revenue. The single
currency has appreciated more than 5 percent since early
September.  Olaf Koch, Chief Executive Officer at  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s
biggest retailer, said on Oct. 17 he’s “confident” about
Christmas business after increased electronics sales in the
company’s home market helped nine-month revenue meet analysts’
estimates.  “In Germany, the economy has turned the corner and
embarked on a sustained recovery,” said Lothar Hessler, an
economist at HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG in Dusseldorf. “Of
course, the level of the second quarter can’t be maintained, but
private consumption and investment are increasing and put the
economy on increasingly solid footing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  