-- Gilead’s Hepatitis C Pill Wins Backing From U.S. Advisers
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-25T20:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/gilead-s-hepatitis-c-pill-wins-backing-from-u-s-advisers.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  won the backing
of U.S. advisers for its hepatitis C pill, helping solidify the
company’s drive to lead the growing market for drugs to defeat
the disease.  Gilead’s drug, known as sofosbuvir, should be approved, a
panel of outside advisers to the Food and Drug Administration
voted unanimously today in Silver Spring,  Maryland . The FDA is
expected to decide whether to clear sofosbuvir for sale by Dec.
8. The agency doesn’t have to follow the panel’s advice.  Gilead, Johnson & Johnson,  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  and Bristol Myers
Squibb Co. are among companies working on new hepatitis C drugs
that alleviate the burden of current treatments that include
interferon injections, which can cause flu-like symptoms. The
market for hepatitis C medicines may reach more than $100
billion over a decade, according to Bloomberg Industries.  “This is a historic vote,” said  Daniel Raymond , the
consumer representative on the panel and policy director at the
Harm Reduction Coalition in New York. “This is the first vote
for a interferon-free regimen to treat hepatitis C. This is
going to be a very important move forward.”  About 4 million Americans have  hepatitis C , which can cause
liver cirrhosis, according to the National Institutes of Health.
The disease, which is classified into six genotypes, can be
passed through infected blood or body fluids, most commonly
through needle-sharing by drug users.  First Request  Gilead is seeking approval of once-daily sofosbuvir for
patients with the genotype 1 form of the infection, the most
common type, in combination with pegylated interferon and
another pill called ribavirin. The Foster City, California-based
company, the world’s biggest maker of AIDS drugs, hopes to gain
approval for an all-oral combination that omits interferon for
those patients within about a year. Gilead also is seeking
sofosbuvir approval in other genotypes with and without
interferon.  Sofosbuvir may  generate  $1.82 billion in sales next year,
according to the average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The drug can shrink the current treatment time to 12
weeks from about a year for most patients.  The panel voted 15-0 that sofosbuvir should be approved in
combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin for genotype
1 and genotype 4 patients who haven’t previously been treated.
About 70 percent of patients in the U.S. have genotype 1.  Different Patients  The panel also voted 15-0 that the treatment in combination
with only ribavirin should be cleared for genotype 2 and
genotype 3 patients, which include as much as 25 percent of
those with hepatitis C in the U.S. The combination for these
patients would be the first all-oral regimen.  Gilead shares fell less than 1 percent to $69.68 at the
close in New York.  “There were already high expectations going into the panel
and the stock was at its all-time high yesterday already,” said
Michael Yee, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets.  The panel today offered glowing reviews of sofosbuvir and
discussed a question asked by the FDA about whether patients
with genotype 1 hepatitis C who tried other treatments should
have access to the drug as well, Yee said in an e-mail. Gilead
only studied the treatment in genotype 1 patients who had never
been treated before.  ‘Important’ Therapy  “As we reviewed this application we realized how important
a drug this was and we also realized that not every patient
population was represented,” Debra Birnkrant, director of FDA’s
Division of Antiviral Products, said during the meeting.  FDA modeled data to hypothesize whether the drug could be
used in treatment-experienced patients.  Advisers voted 19-0 yesterday that a  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and
 Medivir AB (MVIRB)  hepatitis C medicine known as simeprevir should be
approved for genotype 1 patients in combination with pegylated
interferon and ribavirin. The drug can reduce current treatment
time in half to 24 weeks. Potential simeprevir users need
screening for a genetic mutation that renders the drug
ineffective.  Analysts assumed treatment-experienced patients would use
J&J and Medivir’s drug though Gilead now may be available for
those patients, Yee said. He estimates sales of Gilead’s
sofosbuvir will total $300 million in the first quarter of next
year versus a consensus estimate of $223 million.  For the majority of current patients interferon and
ribavirin are combined with Merck & Co.’s Victrelis or  Vertex
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s Incivek. Victrelis, Incivek and J&J’s
simeprevir are protease inhibitors that battle genotype 1
hepatitis C. Sofosbuvir, if approved, will be the first in a new
class of drugs called nucleotide polymerase inhibitors.  Treatment-experienced patients made up 40 percent of first-year  sales  of Victrelis and Incivek, Yee said. Sales of the two
drugs totaled $1 billion in 2011, the year they came on the
market, and $1.7 billion last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  