-- Glencore, Sumitomo to Spend $1 Billion on Australian Coal
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-10-25T16:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/glencore-sumitomo-to-spend-1-billion-on-australian-coal.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  and  Sumitomo
Corp. (8053)  will pay $1.02 billion for a stake in Australia’s third-largest thermal-coal mine as demand from power producers climbs.  The companies will acquire 50.1 percent of the Clermont
mine in Queensland state from  Rio Tinto  Group, Tokyo-based
Sumitomo said today in a  statement . Each will own 25.05 percent,
with Glencore operating the asset and marketing the production.  Coal prices in Asia are poised to rally after the worst
quarter in four years as Chinese demand increases and Australia
curtails output, according to Morgan Stanley and  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  Japan’s utilities are also boosting coal purchases
in the absence of atomic power generation after the country’s 50
reactors were switched off following the 2011 Fukushima crisis.  The deal allows the partners to maintain stable coal
supplies to the Japanese market as well as the rest of  Asia  as
the region’s economy grows, Sumitomo said in the statement. The
company expects thermal-coal prices to advance in the medium to
long term, and sees the Clermont operation as having the quality
and size to compete in Asian markets.  Glencore, the world’s biggest exporter of power-station
coal, has interests in about 35 coal mines in Australia, Africa
and Colombia, accounting for about 10 percent of global seaborne
supplies. The Clermont project produces 12 million metric tons
of the fuel a year, according to Sumitomo.  Expand Relationship  “This investment epitomizes our focus on identifying high-quality assets that complement our existing operations and
marketing capabilities,” Peter Freyberg, who runs Glencore’s
coal business, said in the statement. “We will seek to further
expand our relationship with Sumitomo where there are mutually
beneficial opportunities.”  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  will provide the
partners with half the funding for the acquisition through debt,
with both companies contributing equally to financing the
outstanding cost, said Sumitomo, Japan’s fourth-largest trading
company.  Deutsche Bank AG advised Rio Tinto on the sale.  Rio dropped 0.4 percent to 3,222.5 pence by the close in
London. Glencore advanced 0.7 percent to 342.5 pence. Sumitomo
fell 2.1 percent to 1,280 yen in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  