-- Gramercy Pushing Investors on Argentina Debt Solution
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-10-25T13:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/gramercy-pushing-investors-on-argentina-debt-solution.html
Gramercy Funds Management LLC, the
hedge fund that helped orchestrate  Argentina ’s defaulted-debt
exchange in 2010, is seeking support from bondholders to help
end a decade-long legal battle with the government.  The initial proposal by Gramercy, which owned more than
$383 million of Argentine debt as of November 2012, calls for
holders of restructured bonds to hand over a portion of their
interest payments to investors with defaulted securities,
according to five bondholders approached by officials from the
Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm. Gramercy would then seek to
persuade holders of defaulted securities to drop their lawsuits,
according to the investors, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private.  Moving toward a resolution would help squelch concern that
the legal challenge led by hedge fund Elliott Management Corp.
will prompt a new default on Argentina’s overseas bonds. Four of
the five investors, all of whom hold restructured debt, said
they would be interested in ending the standoff. The fifth said
he was reluctant to be involved because the government and New
York-based Elliott should settle the matter on their own.  “Is it legally feasible? Possibly,” Anna Gelpern, a law
professor at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , said in a
telephone interview. “If the plaintiffs agree to it, anything
is feasible. For this particular case, for the case of Argentina
and the creditors, it looks like a very good thing because it’s
in the interest of everyone involved to come to a solution.”  ‘Argentina’s Participation’  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for Gramercy, declined to comment
on the talks or whether the firm is leading them. Norma Madeo, a
spokeswoman for Argentina’s Economy Ministry, declined to
comment on whether the government was approached with the plan
and whether they would support it.  “We have not been in touch with the exchange bondholders
about this, and they have not been in touch with us,” NML
Capital Ltd., a unit of Elliott, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We have approached Argentina countless times about negotiating
a resolution to this dispute. It is completely within
Argentina’s power to do this. It is absurd to think that
Argentina’s debts can, should, or need to be resolved without
Argentina’s participation.”  Litigation with holdout creditors and Argentina’s defiance
in complying with court orders to pay them in full have
 whipsawed government bonds  this year, pushing average yields up
to as high as 15.3 percent in March. Yields have since declined
to 11.6 percent, according to data from JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Default Risk  Argentina defaulted on $95 billion of foreign debt in 2001
and imposed losses of about 70 percent on bondholders who took
part in the original exchange in 2005 and the Gramercy-led deal
in 2010. Investors including billionaire  Paul Singer ’s Elliott
pursued full payment in court, and on Aug. 23 an appeals court
in  New York  said Argentina can’t make payments on its
restructured notes unless it pays holders of defaulted bonds in
full.  The country has said it would never voluntarily obey such
an order. As the court’s decision prevents third parties,
including trustee  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , from passing
along payments to bondholders, concern payments would be blocked
on the restructured notes has pushed the price to protect
against an Argentine default with credit-default swaps over five
years to 1,735 basis points, or 17.35 percentage points, the
highest in the world, according to data compiled by CMA.  The decision won’t be enforced until the U.S.  Supreme Court 
decides whether or not to hear an appeal by Argentina.  Gathering Support  Speculation that the litigation could extend into next year
and that investors are working on a solution helped push down
bond yields to the lowest in a year on Oct. 21, according to
JPMorgan Chase. The extra yield investors demand to hold
Argentine debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to 893
basis points at 9:37 a.m. in New York.  Gramercy, which has litigated in support of Argentina, will
take the proposal to the government and the holdouts if it gets
enough backing for the idea from investors, according to a
person involved in the talks who asked not to be identified
because the discussions are in a preliminary stage. Approval by
holders of 75 percent of each series of bonds, or of 85 percent
of all $37 billion outstanding of exchange bonds, would be
required to change their terms so that a portion of future
interest payments can be earmarked to the holdouts, the person
said.  The plan would require that the holdouts, who altogether
own $6.6 billion in principal of defaulted bonds, enter into a
third debt swap. On Sept. 11, Argentina’s Congress gave final
approval to reopen the exchange on the same terms as those in
2005 and 2010, for the 7 percent of bonds that weren’t swapped.  ‘Never Happened’  Gramercy estimates about 20 percent of interest payments
due over the next five years may cover the difference between a
negotiated amount for the holdouts and the value of a third debt
exchange, according to the person.  “You have to think outside the box because it’s a very
unique situation, but in my experience of 20 years covering
sovereign debt restructurings, it’s never happened,”  Siobhan Morden , the head of Latin American fixed-income at Jefferies
Group LLC, said in a telephone interview from New York. “The
question is whether the bondholders will accept another haircut
so that another bondholder can receive a lot more.”  Vladimir Werning, an economist at JPMorgan in New York,
lowered his recommendation on Argentine bonds to marketweight
from overweight on Oct. 21, following the rally.  The plan “carries meaningful execution risk at this early
stage,” Werning wrote in a note to clients. “A likely
extension of litigation horizon and the promise of ‘inter-creditor solutions’ do not justify a complete elimination of
litigation risk premia from bond prices.”  ‘By Negotiation’  If Gramercy is unable to garner the support needed to amend
the bond contracts, investors can find alternative ways to pay
the holdouts that don’t require such wide participation,
according to Bruce Wolfson, an attorney at Bingham McCutchen LLP
in New York.  “Speculation seems to fall to the extremes -- that
settlement is either imminent or impossible -- while the truth,
in my view, lies somewhere in the middle,” Wolfson, who has
been following the litigation and has more than 30 years of
experience in emerging-market debt restructurings, said in a
telephone interview. “I’m, however, sticking with my long-standing view that this dispute will ultimately be resolved by
negotiation, not by the Supreme Court.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  