-- Greenland End to 25-Year Uranium Mining Ban Gets Danish Backing
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-10-25T12:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/greenland-end-to-25-year-uranium-mining-ban-gets-danish-backing.html
Denmark  said it backs  Greenland ’s
plans to develop natural resources after the Arctic island’s
parliament yesterday voted to end a “zero tolerance” policy on
uranium mining.  Greenland, which is self-governing, is part of the Kingdom
of Denmark and shares responsibility for security and foreign
policy with the government in Copenhagen.  “Concrete steps to mining and exporting uranium will have
potentially far-reaching consequences for foreign, defense and
security policies,” Danish Minister of Trade and European
Affairs Nick Haekkerup said in a statement published on the
Foreign Ministry’s website. It’s imperative that “exploration
and development will be done according to the highest
international standards,” he said.  Greenland’s government has invited miners and oil and gas
companies to explore the island’s natural resources as it works
to limit its economic dependence on fishery and subsidies from
Denmark.  The Kvanefjeld development in Southern Greenland holds
uranium and rare earth minerals of “genuine global
significance,” Australian miner Greenland Minerals and Energy
Ltd. said in a stock-exchange statement today. The company said
it will continue talks on developing the Kvanefjeld project with
local stakeholders and regulators.  Tanbreez Mining Greenland A/S, a subsidiary of  Australia ’s
Rimbal Pty Ltd., has applied for a permit to mine rare earth
minerals in Greenland.  Yesterday, Greenland awarded  London Mining Plc (LOND)  a license to
develop a 14 billion-krone ($2.6 billion) iron ore mine north of
the capital Nuuk. According to the Greenland government, the
mine will employ 3,000 people making it the biggest business
venture in the island’s history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  