-- India’s 10-Year Bonds Head for Weekly Loss Before RBI Policy
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-10-25T04:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/india-s-10-year-bonds-head-for-weekly-loss-before-rbi-policy.html
India ’s 10-year government bonds
headed for a weekly loss as economists forecast borrowing costs
will be increased next week for the second time in two months.  Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan will raise
the benchmark repurchase rate 25 basis points to 7.75 percent on
Oct. 29, according to 19 of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Rajan has said containing inflation is the central bank’s top
priority.  Wholesale prices  rose 6.46 percent in September, the
most in seven months, while consumer-price gains quickened to
9.84 percent, official data showed Oct. 14.  The yield on the 7.16 percent notes due May 2023 rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, this week to 8.59
percent as of 9:54 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from the
central bank’s trading system. The rate was steady today.  “All eyes are on the policy,” said Arvind Chari, a senior
fund manager at Quantum Asset Management Co. in Mumbai. “We
expect the calibration of rates to continue in this policy and
the central bank will remain reasonably hawkish on inflation.”  Increased price pressures will prompt the RBI to raise the
benchmark rate by 50 basis points on Oct. 29, Taimur Baig,
Singapore-based director of Asia economics at Deutsche Bank AG,
wrote in an Oct. 16 report. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sees the
benchmark rising to 8.5 percent by March.  Boosting Liquidity  Rajan told reporters in New Delhi yesterday the RBI will
address all policy concerns in next week’s review, spurring
speculation he will continue tackling inflation and the economic
 slowdown  simultaneously.  “The two-pronged policy will continue,” Lakshmi Iyer,
head of fixed income at Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Co. in
Mumbai, which oversees 353 billion rupees ($5.7 billion), said
in an Oct. 22 interview. Iyer expects Rajan to cut the rate at
which lenders can access emergency funds under the  marginal
standing facility  by 25 basis points on Oct. 29, while
increasing the repo rate by the same amount.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, slipped two
basis points this week to 8.42 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It rose one basis point today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  