-- Indian Stock Rally to Falter on Growth Concern, Prudential Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-10-25T02:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/indian-stock-rally-to-falter-on-growth-concern-prudential-says.html
The rally in Indian stocks that’s
driven the benchmark index toward its record will falter as
higher  interest rates  curb economic growth, according to
Prudential International Investments Advisers LLC.  The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  has rallied 16 percent from this year’s
low on Aug. 21 to within 2 percent of its all-time closing high
of 21,004.96, as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to maintain
stimulus spurred inflows by foreign investors. The  Reserve Bank 
of India will increase the benchmark repurchase rate to 7.75
percent in its next review on Oct. 29, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists, after the monetary authority unexpectedly
raised the rate to 7.5 percent last month to contain inflation.  “The only thing that’s supporting the markets is
liquidity,”  John Praveen , chief investment strategist at
Prudential, which manages about $1 trillion in assets globally,
said in an interview with Bloomberg TV India in  Mumbai . He
declined to give a forecast for next week’s central bank meeting.  The economy expanded 4.4 percent in the three months to
June, the slowest pace in four years.  Consumer prices  rose 9.84
percent in September from a year earlier, compared with 9.52
percent in August. That’s the second highest in the Group of 20
major economies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the Sensex will probably reach his year-end target of
21,300, “going much beyond that will be difficult given that
the underlying fundamentals are somewhat challenging, especially
with weakness in gross domestic product growth and inflation
being elevated,” Praveen said.  Record High  The Sensex dropped 0.2 percent to 20.725.43 yesterday,
after briefly surpassing the all-time closing high. Overseas
investors have bought a net $1.9 billion of local shares this
month, adding to inflows of $2 billion in September, data from
the market regulator show.  The rally has surprised  India ’s equity strategists, who
abandoned predictions for a record high in the Sensex on
concerns earnings growth will slow. The average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 11 forecasters fell to 19,409 this month
from 21,150 in July.  “This is a fairly schizophrenic market,” Anup Maheshwari,
head of equities and corporate strategy at DSP BlackRock
Investment Managers Pvt., which has $5 billion in Indian shares,
told Bloomberg TV India. “Everyone tends to pretty much reach
the same conclusions very quickly at the institutional level.
That tends to create very sharp movements in the markets.”  Rupee Rebound  The Sensex tumbled 7.8 percent this year through Aug. 21 as
foreign investors pulled $3.7 billion from Indian shares in the
three months through August on concern the Fed would reduce
monetary stimulus. Outflows from Indian stocks and bonds,
coupled with a record current account deficit, dragged the rupee
to a record low of 68.8450 per dollar on Aug. 28. The currency
has since rallied 12 percent.  The Sensex trades at 18.1 times reported earnings, 50
percent higher than the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “At these levels you should keep some powder dry and keep
some cash and if there’s a correction triggered either by
domestic events or international events then that might be a
good time to deploy that cash,” Praveen said. “The bias is
towards tightening rather than easing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  