-- India Swaps Window Seen Attracting $15 Billion in Rupee Boost
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-10-25T10:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/india-swaps-window-seen-attracting-15-billion-in-rupee-boost.html
India’s dollar-swaps window will
attract about $15 billion before it closes next month,
bolstering the rupee, two officials with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  The amount would exceed both the  Reserve Bank  of India’s
and the government’s earlier expectations, the officials said,
asking not to be identified as the projections are private.
Total funds moving through the window have slowed in recent
weeks from an initial surge last month, said one of the
officials, who works in the  Finance Ministry .  RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan last month offered concessional
swaps for banks’ foreign-currency deposits and borrowings until
Nov. 30 to woo dollars and boost the smallest foreign-exchange
 reserves  in major emerging nations. The RBI said the step has
garnered $10.1 billion as of Oct. 23.  The measure has contributed to a 12 percent climb in the
rupee against the U.S. currency from a record low in August, the
biggest appreciation in the world in that period.  The rupee has slumped 13 percent versus the dollar in the
past 12 months, hurt by India’s current-account deficit,
elevated inflation, slowing economic growth and concern that the
U.S. Federal Reserve could taper monetary stimulus.  Increasing foreign reserves is the key to rupee stability,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. They have dropped
about 13 percent to $279 billion since a 2011 peak.  That’s the lowest in the BRIC group of large emerging
nations. Among the other members,  China  has  $3.66 trillion ,
Russia about  $511 billion  and  Brazil   $378 billion .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  