-- Indian Rupee Declines for a Second Week on Interest-Rate Outlook
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-25T04:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/indian-rupee-declines-for-a-second-week-on-interest-rate-outlook.html
India ’s rupee dropped for a second
week on concern faster inflation will prompt the central bank to
boost borrowing costs, putting at risk an economy that’s growing
at the slowest pace in a decade.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will increase its benchmark
repurchase rate to 7.75 percent from 7.50 percent at an Oct. 29
review, according to 16 of 20 economists in a Bloomberg  survey .
One predicts an increase to 8 percent and three see no change.
Governor  Raghuram Rajan  may raise his inflation forecast for the
year through March 2014 to above 6 percent from “around 5
percent,” and scale back its economic-growth estimate to 5
percent from 5.5 percent, according to DBS Bank Ltd.  The rupee fell 0.4 percent from a week ago to 61.49 per
dollar as of 9:38 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg. It was steady today.  “The focus will entirely be on the RBI policy review,”
Radhika Rao, an economist at DBS Bank in  Singapore , wrote in a
research report today. “Affirming the governor’s stance as an
inflation hawk, the vote could swing to a 25 basis point hike in
the repo rate. The new approach is likely to be focused
primarily on  price stability .”  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
130 basis points, or 1.3 percentage points, from Oct. 18 to
11.65 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate
rose 13 basis points today.  Dollar Demand  The rupee also fell amid speculation the RBI is looking at
ending an emergency facility under which it has directly sold
dollars to state refiners since late August, a move that would
increase demand for the greenback in the  spot market .  The facility stays operational and “any tapering of the
window, as and when it occurs, will be done in a calibrated
manner,” the RBI said in an Oct. 18 statement on its website.  “The possibility that the oil swap window could be unwound
might add buoyancy to the dollar against the rupee,” Rao at DBS
wrote in the report.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards slipped 0.1 percent
today to 62.90 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts weakened 0.2 percent to
63.01. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  