-- Indonesian Oil, Gas Exploration May Halt Over Land-Tax Issue
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-10-25T08:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/indonesian-oil-gas-exploration-may-halt-over-land-tax-issue.html
Work at 19 Indonesia exploration
wells may halt after the  finance ministry  shifted the cost of
land and building taxes for oil and natural gas projects.  The companies that operate the wells have temporarily
halted orders for drilling rigs because they are required to pay
the tax before starting exploration, according to Aussie
Gautama, planning deputy at  SKK Migas, the country’s upstream
oil and gas regulator. The suspension may hamper effort to find
potential resources of 1.6 billion barrels of oil and 3.7
trillion cubic feet of gas reserves, Gautama said.  “They may cancel bringing in the rigs if the tax issue
isn’t cleared soon,” Gautama said yesterday in a text message.
“It takes about two years to order rigs, so it means
exploration to replace our reserve could be delayed for two
years if the rigs were canceled.”  Indonesia  is trying to attract upstream investment to stem
a decline in aging oil and gas fields. The decline in output
turned what was once  Southeast Asia ’s largest crude producer
into a net oil importer and caused it to withdraw in 2008 from
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  The finance ministry issued a regulation last year that
shifted the responsibility for paying land and building taxes to
the exploration companies as of Jan. 1, said Chandra Budi,
spokesman at the Directorate General of Taxation at the Finance
Ministry. The government had previously covered the tax.  “It looks like it is a new regulation, but it’s not,”
Budi said today in a telephone interview. “Contractors can
import the rigs and do explorations even if they haven’t paid
the tax. We will just collect the tax and fine them if they miss
the payment.”  Output Target  The country aims to produce 840,000 barrels of oil a day
tin 2013. Indonesia has proven oil reserve of 3.7 billion
barrels and 104 trillion cubic feet of natural gas, according to
data from SKK Migas.  State-owned oil company PT Pertamina,  Inpex Corp. (1605)  and  Niko
Resources (NKO)  are among companies that are operating the exploration
wells, Gautama said.  Indonesia’s current oil reserves will only be enough for 10
to 11 years of production, Elan Biantoro, a spokesman at SKK
Migas said yesterday by phone.  “We have potential oil resources of 50 billion barrels,
but they need to be proved with aggressive explorations,”
Biantoro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  