-- Indonesia Pledges Budget Prudence as Ministers Avoid First Class
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   N e i l   C h a t t e r j e e
-- 2013-10-25T09:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/indonesia-pledges-budget-prudence-as-ministers-avoid-first-class.html
Indonesia  will seek to rein in state
spending next year to tackle a record current-account shortfall
that has hurt the rupiah.  The government is aiming for a budget deficit of 1.69
percent of  gross domestic product  in 2014, compared with an
earlier target of 2.4 percent, Finance Minister Chatib Basri
told reporters in Jakarta today after the parliament approved
the budget. Authorities accept growth next year will be slower,
he said, with the expansion target reduced to 6 percent from 6.4
percent.  “This is a signal to the market that Bank Indonesia and
the government are serious about addressing the current-account
deficit issue,” Basri said. “To manage it, our macro policies
must be tight” for both monetary and fiscal matters, he said.  The current-account shortfall was a record 4.4 percent of
GDP in the three months through June, contributing to a 14
percent drop in the rupiah against the dollar in the third
quarter, the worst performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Bank Indonesia has raised its
benchmark  interest rate  by 1.5 percentage points since early
June to shore up the rupiah and stem inflation.  The rupiah rose 1.2 percent to 11,018 per dollar as of 3:34
p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks. That
extended its gain this month to 5.1 percent, the most in Asia.
The yield on 10-year local-currency bonds fell 138 basis points
to 7.13 percent in October, poised for the biggest monthly drop
since May 2009.  Energy Subsidies  The state budget assumes an average rupiah exchange rate of
10,500 per dollar next year, and inflation of 5.5 percent,
Ahmadi Noor Supit, Parliament’s budget committee chairman, said
today. About 282.1 trillion rupiah ($26 billion), or 15 percent
of total spending, will be allocated to energy subsidies, he
said. That compares with 299.8 trillion rupiah in 2013.  The 2014 budget plans total spending of 1,842.5 trillion
rupiah, up 6.7 percent from this year. The increase in 2014 is
smaller than a targeted 16.5 percent rise this year from 2012.  Infrastructure spending will be increased, and government
ministers will cut costs by traveling business class and not
first class, Basri said.  “After stability in 2014, then we can talk about growth
momentum with the new government,” Basri said, referring to
national elections scheduled to be held next year.  Indonesia’s economic fundamentals are improving somewhat,
with the current-account deficit almost certainly past its peak
and seen at 2.5 percent of GDP next year, according to  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse
AG. Still, the policy stance may be complicated by the prospect
of a reduction in Federal Reserve monetary stimulus.  “Our main concern from a macro stability perspective is
that Bank Indonesia starts to ease policy ‘too soon’ and then
has to reverse it when tapering comes back on the agenda,”
Prior-Wandesforde said by e-mail today. “Basri’s comments
provide only a degree of comfort in that regard.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Chatterjee in Jakarta at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  