-- Intel’s James Says Mobile Delay Due to Lack of Priorities
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-10-25T17:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/intel-s-james-says-mobile-delay-due-to-lack-of-priorities.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s failure to break into
the mobile-phone business is due to a lack of prioritization
rather than an inability to make and sell the chips, President
Renee James said.  “There’s a difference between not being capable of it, and
not doing it,” James said in an interview today at Bloomberg’s
 New York  headquarters.  James, 49, was promoted to president, the No. 2 position at
the world’s largest semiconductor maker, when Chief Executive
Officer Brian Krzanich was appointed in May. Under the new
leadership, Intel has started to introduce products as soon as
they’re ready, rather than via scheduled rollouts, she said.  Intel has been struggling to catch up in the wireless
market as consumers shift away from laptops and and desktops to
smartphones and tablets to check e-mail, browse the Web and
access entertainment. Investors have been let down by Intel’s
lack of progress in mobile and need to see concrete results,
said Patrick Wang, an analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)   “Intel has been talking about this for so long,” said
Wang, who  rates  Intel stock underweight, the equivalent of a
sell. “People are once again disillusioned.”  While Intel took 92 percent of the market for personal-computer chips in the second quarter, it’s still playing catch-up in wireless devices, with a 3.2 percent slice of tablet-processor sales, according to researcher IDC. Overtaking
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s chip-design efforts will prove difficult, Wang said.  Shares of  Santa Clara , California-based Intel rose 1.7
percent to $24.18 at 1:23 p.m. in New York. The stock is up 15
percent this year through yesterday, compared with a 29 percent
gain in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  Mobile Market  The introduction in September of Quark, a range of
processors aimed at wearable devices such as smartwatches, is an
example of the departure from a regular schedule set by Intel
and the PC and server industries, which updated their products
together.  “It doesn’t sound like much, but it’s a big change,” she
said.  Mobile-phone shipments are projected to increase by 7.3
percent this year, fueled by demand for smartphones, while
tablet unit sales will  grow  an estimated 59 percent, according
to researcher IDC. PC shipments are forecast to drop 9.7 percent
worldwide, IDC said in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  