-- ITC Sales Growth Slows to 4-Year Low on Higher Cigarette Prices
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-10-25T18:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/itc-quarterly-profit-increases-amid-higher-cigarette-prices.html
ITC Ltd. (ITC) , India’s biggest tobacco
company, posted the slowest pace of sales growth in four years
after an increase in the price of its cigarettes damped demand
at its biggest business. Shares fell.  Net sales rose 8.8 percent to 77.8 billion rupees ($1.3
billion) in the three months ended September, the Kolkata-based
company said yesterday. That was the  smallest  jump since the
quarter ended June 2009 and missed the 81.1 billion-rupee median
of 31 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ITC raised prices of some brands of cigarettes by as much
as 10 percent in September, helping lift net income 21 percent
in the second quarter. The company’s strategy of boosting its
profits by charging more for its best-selling products is not
sustainable in the long term as the slowing growth suggests the
company is losing smokers at a rate “that’s a cause for
concern,” according to Sanjay Manyal, an analyst at ICICI
Direct.  “Slower sales growth is very much visible in almost all
the segments,” Mumbai-based Manyal said in a phone interview.
Volume of cigarette sales likely fell by at least 7 percent in
the last quarter, he said. “This could well be the sharpest
drop in cigarette volumes in about 5 years.”  ITC  fell  0.8 percent to 340.05 rupees in Mumbai yesterday.
The stock has climbed 19 percent this year, while the benchmark
S&P BSE Sensex has gained 6.5 percent.  Profit Jumps  Net income rose to 22.3 billion rupees in the quarter from
18.4 billion rupees a year earlier, the soaps-to-hotels
conglomerate said. That compared with the 21.2 billion-rupee
 median  of 31 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Cigarette gross sales grew 11 percent from a year earlier.
In the past one year, ITC raised prices of its cigarettes by an
average 18 percent to compensate for higher excise taxes levied
by the government, Manyal said.  As a result of these repeated price increases, some
consumers smoking its Gold Flake and Classic Milds cigarettes
are either switching to cheaper products made by rivals, or
substitutes like hand-rolled Indian cigarettes called bidis or
chewing tobacco, Naveen Vyas, Kolkata-based analyst at Microsec
Capital Ltd. said in an interview.  Profit before tax at its hotels  business  fell 43 percent to
87.2 million rupees. “The hospitality sector continued to be
adversely impacted by the weak economic conditions prevailing in
major international source markets and  India  on the one hand,
and significant additions to room supplies in key Indian
cities,” ITC said.  Soaps and Shampoos  Sales at its agriculture business unit, which exports
soyameal, shrimps and prawns also fell 12 percent to 17.7
billion rupees.  “The agri business has also disappointed by posting
negative sales growth,” Vyas said in a telephone interview.
“There is a trend of the company’s topline growth slowing down
and that’s a matter of concern.”  The consumer goods business, which includes Bingo packaged
snacks and Fiama di Wills shampoo, narrowed its loss to 127
million rupees, from 303 million rupees a year earlier. ITC
introduced new variants of soaps and bath gels during the
quarter, the company  said .  Earnings before interest and tax “margin for cigarette
business came at a hefty 65 percent,” Rakesh Tarway, an analyst
at Motilal Oswal Securities Ltd., said in e-mailed comments.
“Any volume growth in cigarettes during the coming quarters
will bring in huge EBIT growth for the cigarettes business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  