-- Mizuho Set to Punish Bank Executives Over Crime-Group Loans
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-10-25T06:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/mizuho-set-to-penalize-executives-over-bank-s-crime-group-loans.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  may cut
pay and add new board members to mollify investors, lawmakers
and regulators after failing to end loans to crime groups in the
biggest scandal of President Yasuhiro Sato’s two-year tenure.  Sato, who said earlier this month that the bank’s initial
report to regulators was inaccurate, will explain to the
Financial Services Agency on Oct. 28 how it will improve
compliance, company spokeswoman  Masako Shiono  said by phone
today. Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value will probably
offer remedies including pay reductions for top executives, said
Yoshinobu Yamada, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  Tokyo .  Mizuho  shares  have lost 8.1 percent since the regulator on
Sept. 27 told it to strengthen internal controls after failing
to break off the more than 200 million yen ($2 million) of
transactions with criminal organizations. Sato’s leadership was
rocked less than two weeks later when the bank reversed its
stance that senior managers weren’t aware of the loans.  “One issue that could become a problem for Mizuho is the
question of when senior management, including Mr. Sato, knew
about these loans,” said  David Marshall , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in  Singapore . “It may be hard for him to
survive if it becomes clear that he was in a position to know
about them and did nothing.”  Pay Cuts  The company plans to punish more than 30 executives at
Mizuho Bank Ltd. including Sato, whose compensation will be
suspended for half a year, the Nikkei newspaper reported today,
without attribution. Takashi Tsukamoto will step down as
chairman of the unit while keeping the post for the parent
company, the newspaper said.  Sato had a 40 million yen base salary last fiscal year as
president of the corporate banking unit that has since been
merged, company filings show. His total annual compensation
including from the parent company was 116 million yen, according
to a report Mizuho submitted to regulators in June.  The bank hasn’t made any decisions about management
changes, Mizuho said in a statement today. Sato will brief the
press on Oct. 28 about the bank’s report to the regulator,
Shiono said.  Financial Services Minister Taro Aso said this week that he
will respond appropriately to the company’s reports, including
the findings of outside lawyers commissioned by Mizuho to probe
the matter. Aso, who is also finance minister, declined to
comment on the case at a news briefing today.  Shares of Mizuho fell 1.5 percent to 204 yen at the close
of trading in Tokyo. The stock has gained 30 percent this year,
trailing the benchmark  Topix Index (TPX) ’s 37 percent advance.  Car Loans  Mizuho made 230 transactions, mostly loans for automobiles,
through its  Orient Corp. (8585)  consumer credit affiliate, according to
the regulator. At least four senior executives responsible for
compliance knew of the loans and didn’t inform superiors, the
bank said Oct. 4.  Four days later, Mizuho said that top managers were aware
of the transactions, contradicting the earlier remarks. Also on
Oct. 8, Sato told reporters that then-chief of the banking unit,
Satoru Nishibori, knew of the assets as early as 2010.  Sato, who took the helm of Mizuho in June 2011, said he
himself was in a position to have found out about the loans as
early as July 2011, when reports mentioning them were circulated
at executive meetings. He apologized, saying that while he
didn’t know of the lending until the FSA briefed the bank on its
investigation in March, he bears responsibility.  Governance Doubts  “Backtracking on the remarks was extraordinary,” Tatsuya Ito, a ruling  Liberal Democratic Party  lawmaker and former
banking minister, said in an interview on Oct. 24. “Doubts over
Mizuho’s governance despite its status as a megabank are drawing
strong responses from the public.”  Other lawmakers from both sides of parliament have demanded
answers from Sato.  Isshu Sugawara, chairman of the ruling Liberal  Democratic
Party ’s finance committee, told reporters on Oct. 18 that it was
“outrageous” Mizuho failed to address the loans. He said he
wants Sato to appear before the panel as it examines whether the
FSA’s supervision of Mizuho was adequate. Opposition Democratic
Party of Japan lawmaker Akira Nagatsuma said in parliament on
Oct. 21 that Sato should be summoned to the Diet.  High Reputation  Mizuho’s president will avoid having to resign if he comes
up with “convincing measures and a decent explanation,” said
Masamitsu Ohki, who manages about 7 billion yen of stocks
including banks at Stats Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.
“Sato’s reputation in the market is relatively high.”  Sato has driven measures designed to improve management at
Mizuho, which has been penalized for lapses ranging from
computer glitches to trading errors since its creation in 2000
through the merger of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd., Fuji Bank Ltd.
and Industrial Bank of  Japan  Ltd.  In May 2011, the FSA ordered Mizuho to improve operations
and repair its “corporate culture” following computer
malfunctions at its retail bank that delayed transactions in the
wake of the nation’s March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.  When Sato was named president the following month, he vowed
to scrap a practice of promoting top officials based on their
past ties with the founding banks. He took the helm of Mizuho
Bank, a unit formed in July by combining the retail and
corporate lending arms, emphasizing the slogan “one Mizuho.”  Outside Directors  The parent company’s  board of directors  consists of 12
members including three from outside the organization. At its
lending unit, the board of directors has eight members without
any external directors.  Corporate governance in Japan is “notoriously weak” with
insiders dominating boards, Marshall of CreditSights wrote in an
e-mail. “More independent voices on the board would help put in
place procedures to ensure compliance with internal rules.”  Yamada at Deutsche Bank said top managers will probably
keep their posts. Cutting pay and tightening controls would be
in line with earlier cases involving Japanese banks’ dealings
with criminal syndicates known as the yakuza, he said.  In 2007, when the FSA found that a branch of  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306)  did business with an “antisocial
institution” for more than 30 years, the bank cut executive pay
and established an anti-money laundering office. The agency
ordered it to halt loans to new corporate clients for a week and
barred it from opening branches for six months.  “From a long-term perspective the current incident will
also raise crisis awareness and boost momentum for greater
unification within the group,” Yamada said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  