-- JPMorgan to Pay $5.1 Billion to Settle Mortgage Claims
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-10-26T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/jpmorgan-to-pay-5-1-billion-to-settle-mortgage-claims.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to pay
$5.1 billion to settle  Federal Housing Finance Agency  claims
related to home loans and mortgage-backed securities the company
sold to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , resolving part of a
$13 billion accord the firm is negotiating with the government.  The deal includes $4 billion to end the FHFA’s 2011 lawsuit
accusing JPMorgan of selling Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  faulty
mortgage bonds, the agency said yesterday. The remaining
$1.1 billion settles claims that the firm sold the companies
defective loans that they packaged into their own securities.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 57, is
seeking to settle state and federal probes into whether the
company misrepresented the quality of mortgage bonds packaged
and sold at the height of the U.S. housing boom. JPMorgan, the
biggest  U.S. bank , didn’t admit wrongdoing in the FHFA deal.  The pact is “an important step towards a broader
resolution of the firm’s MBS-related matters with governmental
entities,” the New York-based bank said in a statement.  The firm has been negotiating with the U.S.  Justice
Department  to resolve probes by its staff, as well as claims
from other authorities including New York Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman and California Attorney General  Kamala Harris ,
people briefed on the matter said this week.  FDIC Claims  The FHFA settlement “provides greater certainty in the
marketplace and is in line with our responsibility for
preserving and conserving Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s assets
on behalf of taxpayers,” the agency’s acting director, Edward J. DeMarco, said in a statement. “I am pleased that a
resolution of single-family, whole-loan representation and
warranty claims could be achieved at the same time.”  JPMorgan preserved its right to seek reimbursement from the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. for FHFA claims stemming from
 Washington Mutual  Bank’s estate, which is managed by the FDIC.
JPMorgan has been in a legal battle with the FDIC over who
should pay certain liabilities from the failed thrift, which the
agency placed into receivership in 2008 while selling assets to
JPMorgan.  While the agreement prohibits JPMorgan from seeking money
directly from the FDIC, it doesn’t preclude the bank from
seeking reimbursement from Washington Mutual’s receivership for
some of the settlement costs. The Justice Department is opposing
JPMorgan’s effort to shed the Washington Mutual liabilities,
according to a person familiar with the talks.  False Statements  The FHFA, the conservator of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac,
sued JPMorgan and 17 other banks over faulty mortgage bonds two
years ago in an effort to recoup some of the losses taxpayers
were forced to cover when the government took control of the
failing mortgage finance companies in 2008.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have taken $187.5 billion in
federal aid since then. They’ve paid about $146 billion in
dividends on the U.S. stake, which doesn’t count as a repayment
of the taxpayer aid.  The FHFA had accused JPMorgan and its affiliates of making
false statements and omitting material facts in selling about
$33 billion in mortgage bonds to the two companies from Sept. 7,
2005, through Sept. 19, 2007.  Executives at JPMorgan, Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns
Cos., which was also acquired by JPMorgan in 2008, knowingly
misrepresented the quality of the loans underlying the bonds,
the regulator wrote in the lawsuit in federal court in
Manhattan.  First Loss  JPMorgan reported its first quarterly loss under Dimon
earlier this month after taking a $7.2 billion charge to cover
the cost of mounting litigation and regulatory probes.  The bank, which still faces investigations into its hiring
practices in Asia, energy-trading business, and financial
services provided to Ponzi scheme operator  Bernard Madoff , has
already tapped $8 billion of $28 billion in reserves set aside
since 2010 to cover its legal costs.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, agreed in July to pay
$885 million to settle claims it misrepresented the quality of
the loans backing $4.5 billion in residential mortgage bonds it
sponsored and $1.8 billion of third-party mortgage bonds sold to
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. UBS was the third bank to reach an
agreement with FHFA.  Citigroup Inc. and  General Electric Co. (GE)  both paid
undisclosed amounts to settle the regulator’s complaints.  The case is Federal Housing Finance Agency v. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., 11-06188, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  