-- Kiwi Poised for Longest Weekly Decline Against Aussie Since 2012
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-10-25T05:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/kiwi-set-for-longest-weekly-drop-against-aussie-since-2012.html
New Zealand ’s dollar was set for the
longest run of weekly declines against its Australian
counterpart in more than a year as the smaller nation’s central
bank signaled hesitation to raise borrowing costs.  The kiwi slid against all 16 major peers after Reserve Bank
of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler said he is concerned
higher  interest rates  would drive up the currency and damage
exports. Two-year interest-rate swaps in the nation fell for a
seventh day, the longest stretch in almost two years. The Aussie
was poised to complete its first weekly decline this month
versus the U.S. currency.  “I expect to see Aussie-kiwi rise a bit more,” said Kengo Suzuki, the chief currency strategist at Mizuho Securities Co.
in  Tokyo . “There’s a good chance that New Zealand will put off
raising rates to avoid a stronger currency, and any indication
of delay will cap a gain in the kiwi.”  The kiwi retreated 0.3 percent to NZ$1.1540 per Aussie as
of 4:52 p.m. in Sydney, extending its weekly slide to 1.4
percent. A fifth week of declines would be the longest stretch
since May 2012. The currency weakened 0.4 percent to 83.23 U.S.
cents after touching 82.98, the lowest since Oct. 14. The
Australian dollar fell 0.2 percent to 96.05 U.S. cents, a 0.8
percent retreat since Oct. 18.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares lost 0.8 percent,
sapping demand for higher-yielding assets.  The yield on  Australia ’s benchmark 10-year yield dropped
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.97 percent. It
has fallen 15 basis points this week.  New Zealand’s two-year  interest-rate swaps  retreated seven
basis points to 3.41 percent. There hasn’t been a longer period
of declines for the contracts since November 2011.  ‘Very Strong’  The kiwi is about 10 percent stronger than its five-year
average against a basket of nine major currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  “We have a very strong  exchange rate ,” Wheeler said in an
interview with  Radio New Zealand . Increasing interest rates
“would put upward pressure on the exchange rate and damage our
traded goods sector. We’re quite concerned about that risk.”  The RBNZ set the official cash rate at an all-time low of
2.5 percent, which is still the highest along with Australia
among Group of 10 countries. Traders see a 65 percent chance
that the central bank will raise the rate by the end of April,
compared with a 34 percent likelihood that the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia will decrease borrowing costs by that month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg on overnight-index swaps.  Home Prices  The RBNZ, scheduled to hold a policy meeting on Oct. 31,
said last month that rate increases “will likely be required
next year” because of inflation pressures.  House-price inflation  is running at the fastest pace since
early 2008, fueled by a housing shortage in Auckland and
Christchurch. The RBNZ on Oct. 1 introduced limits on the volume
of home loans banks can make when deposits are less than 20
percent of a property’s value. Asked if the restrictions are
working, Wheeler said today it is too early to tell “but the
anecdotes suggest that they are.”  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand
Ltd. in Wellington, said the kiwi was weaker today on Wheeler’s
comment that the mortgage lending curbs may be starting to work.  “That may reduce the need for rate hikes down the track,”
Jones said. “It’s seeing the ground crumble under the kiwi a
little bit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  