-- Koruna Pares Weekly Gain as Czech Election Starts: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-10-25T12:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/koruna-pares-weekly-gain-as-czech-election-starts-prague-mover.html
The koruna declined as Czechs
started voting in a general election, paring its weekly gain
amid concern the vote will fail to produce a stable government.  The currency retreated 0.1 percent to 25.728 per euro by
2:07 p.m. in  Prague , reducing its advance this week to 0.3
percent. Yields on Czech 10-year notes dropped one basis point
to a two-week low of 2.33 percent and the  PX (PX)  equity index, which
hit a seven-month high this week, gained 0.1 percent.  While opinion polls show the Social Democrats, who are
advocating a shift away from fiscal-austerity policies, will win
the most votes, some surveys predict the election will produce a
fragmented parliament with a record seven parties. The Czech
Republic’s low public debt, at half of the European Union
average, has been comforting bondholders even as the country has
been in gridlock since the collapse of Prime Minister Petr
Necas’s cabinet in June.  “It is uncertain whether a stable government can be formed
after the elections,”  Michal Brozka , an analyst at the Prague-based unit of  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , wrote in a
report to clients yesterday. “This period of uncertainty is
unfavorable from the viewpoint of the financial market.”  Polling stations across the central European country with a
population of 10.5 million are open between 2 p.m. and 10 p.m.
today and 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. tomorrow.  Rarely ‘Turbulent’  While Necas’s three-year austerity program contributed to
six quarters of recession, it boosted the appeal of Czech
sovereign bonds. The post-communist nation has the highest
credit ratings in central and eastern  Europe , along with euro-member Estonia, and the cost of insuring its bonds against non-payment is the lowest in the region.  Czech credit-default swaps rose one basis point to 60,
compared with 61 for higher-rated  France . The sovereign’s public
debt stands at 46 percent of gross domestic product, the lowest
after Luxembourg and  Sweden  and tied with  Denmark  among the 17
richest EU members, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Czech currency rallied 0.5 percent yesterday, the most
among 31 major peers tracked by Bloomberg, as an index of Czech
economic confidence rose to a two-year high. The koruna’s
volatility against the euro over the past week has been 4.9
percent, the highest after Iceland and  Turkey  among 13 emerging
European currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Budget-deficit cuts implemented by the Necas administration
and low Czech bond yields are limiting the potential market
impact of the elections, analyst Jan Bures at CSOB AS in Prague
wrote in a report to clients today.  “Czech parliamentary elections have rarely produced any
turbulent reaction on the koruna,” he said. “This year’s vote
will be among the traditionally calm ones.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  