-- Najib Drives Malaysian Shift to Fiscal Prudence as GST Planned
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n ,   L i a u   Y - S i n g   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-10-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/najib-drives-malaysian-shift-to-fiscal-prudence-as-gst-planned.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
took steps for a shift toward fiscal prudence, scrapping sugar
subsidies and unveiling plans for a  consumption tax  in 2015
while softening the impact with handouts to the poor.  The government will implement a goods and services tax of 6
percent in April 2015, while corporate and personal income tax
rates will be lowered after the new levy comes into force, Najib
said in his 2014 budget speech yesterday. The  fiscal deficit 
will shrink to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product next year
from 4 percent in 2013, meeting targets set previously, the
finance ministry said in a report.  Having earlier given handouts and pay increases for civil
servants to woo voters, Najib is adjusting his focus to improve
government finances and avert a credit rating downgrade after
cementing his leadership of the country in a May general
election. The prime minister will give tax breaks to middle-income earners and spend 4.6 billion ringgit ($1.5 billion) on
aid for the poor to reduce the impact on  consumer spending .  “When you announce these kinds of tax changes you’ve got
to provide certain offsets and we got that,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
“Fiscal consolidation will obviously have an impact on growth
but again this is a price that they are now willing to pay
because the fiscal priorities are now more pressing.”  Growth Forecast  GDP may expand 5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2014 from an
estimated 4.5 percent to 5 percent this year, according to the
 Ministry of Finance’s  2013/2014 economic report released in
conjunction with the budget speech.  Forward contracts in  Malaysia ’s ringgit climbed after Najib
announced the GST plan, with one-month non-deliverable forwards
rising 0.5 percent to 3.1357 per dollar as of 5:39 p.m. in  Kuala
Lumpur  yesterday, the highest level since June 17, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks, bonds and the ringgit had advanced this week on
optimism the prime minister would follow through on politically
unpopular revenue-generating measures after  Fitch Ratings  cut
Malaysia’s credit outlook to negative in July, citing rising
debt levels and a lack of budgetary reform.  The “budget will be an important input to Fitch’s ongoing
assessment of Malaysia’s public finances and broader sovereign
credit profile,”  Andrew Colquhoun , head of Asia-Pacific
Sovereigns at Fitch, said in an e-mailed comment after Najib
announced his plans. “However, Fitch expects it will be
important to monitor the implementation and execution of budget
measures over time.”  Tapering Risk  The negative outlook partly reflects the risk that the
broader public sector deficit beyond the federal government will
drive the emergence of a current-account shortfall, which could
potentially increase Malaysia’s vulnerability to renewed
“market tensions” when an impending reduction in U.S. monetary
stimulus once again becomes imminent, the ratings company said.  Najib, 60, announced upgrades to rural airports, broadband
network expansions and agricultural subsidies, pledging to
support the economy while keeping debt levels from breaching the
government’s ceiling. He is also the finance minister.  “While supporting the growth momentum, we are fully aware
of the need to be fiscally responsible,” Najib said in the
 finance ministry  report. “We are also pursuing better targeted,
efficient and effective government expenditure. One of the
measures towards this goal is to gradually carry out subsidy
rationalization, with complementary measures to assist the
vulnerable groups.”  The administration will cap debt service charges at below
15 percent of revenue and total federal government debt within
55 percent of GDP to make sure its finances remain healthy, the
finance ministry said in its report.  Government Debt  Total federal government debt is expected to climb to 541.3
billion ringgit or 54.8 percent of GDP this year, up from 53.3
percent in 2012, the report showed. The subsidy bill is
projected to decline to 39.4 billion ringgit next year, from an
estimated 46.7 billion ringgit this year. This includes the
costs to keep prices artificially low for items such as fuel and
cooking oil, incentives to boost  food production , educational
assistance and social welfare programs.  The government will abolish its sugar subsidy of 34 sen
from today, Najib said, pointing to statistics that showed 2.6
million Malaysians under the age of 30 are diabetic. The real
property gains tax will be raised to control excessive
speculation, he said.  “On the surface, it does look like the government is
focusing on deficit consolidation, with the GST rate of 6
percent coming in higher than expected,” said Saktiandi Supaat,
Singapore-based head of foreign-exchange research at  Malayan
Banking Bhd. (MAY)  “The issue is whether these intricacies are easily
implementable or not.”  Tax Protests  Protests against the consumption tax were planned in
several locations nationwide this week by a citizen group called
 Oppressed People Network , a sign of the resistance Najib faces
in proceeding with the levy. About 50 people gathered outside
Parliament yesterday before Najib began his speech, carrying
banners to reject any GST.  The GST can be avoided by cutting wastage, Malaysian
opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  told reporters in Kuala Lumpur
yesterday, saying he’s against the plan.  “Our concern, other than the issue of good governance, is
the issue of inequality,” he said. “The GST will cause a
bigger burden, particularly to the lower-income and middle-income groups.”  Softening Impact  The current sales tax and service levy will be abolished in
place of the GST, Najib said. Essential food items such as rice,
sugar, salt and cooking oil will be zero-rated while services
including public transport are exempted from the new tax, he
said.  The corporate tax rate will be lowered to 24 percent from
25 percent after the GST is implemented, while personal income
tax levels will be reduced by 1 percentage point to 3 percentage
points to increase disposable income, Najib said. For small- and
medium-sized companies, the tax rate will be cut to 19 percent
from 20 percent, he said.  The income threshold for the top tax rate will be raised to
400,000 ringgit from 100,000 ringgit when the GST starts, while
middle-income earners will get a 2,000 ringgit tax relief for
this year, Najib said.  “With the removal of the current  sales tax , lower
corporate tax rates, and exemption of low income households from
income tax, the overall impact of the GST could be revenue
neutral in the early years of its implementation,” said YeeFarn
Phua, an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in  Singapore .  Surplus Narrows  Najib’s government is forecasting federal spending of 262.2
billion ringgit in 2014, according to the finance ministry’s
report. Total expenditure for this year is estimated at 261.3
billion ringgit, 4.6 percent more than originally budgeted.  Malaysia’s current-account surplus is estimated to narrow
to 26.6 billion ringgit this year from 57.3 billion ringgit in
2012, the report showed.  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index of shares climbed to a
record close on Oct. 24. The ringgit gained this week after
touching a four-month high of 3.1413 per dollar on Oct. 18. It
has appreciated more than 3 percent in October, the second-best
performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded currencies behind
 Indonesia ’s rupiah.  “The government will do what is right for our economy,”
Najib said in a statement on Oct. 24. “Some measures may not be
popular now, but over the medium term what is good for the
economy is also good for the people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  