-- Nasdaq Payout on Facebook Is $41.6 Million After Finra Review
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-10-25T17:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/nasdaq-payout-on-facebook-is-41-6-million-after-finra-review.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  owes $41.6
million to firms that lost money in  Facebook (FB)  Inc.’s initial
public offering last year due to a malfunction in the exchange’s
computers, according to the group that oversees brokerages.  The amount is less than the $62 million Nasdaq had planned
to cover losses in the May 2012 offering, which went awry just
as Facebook was set to begin trading at the second-biggest U.S.
exchange operator. One firm started an arbitration proceeding
instead of filing for compensation. Members will be notified of
their claim value in coming days, according to a notice from New
York-based Nasdaq  today .  Brokers handling Facebook orders in the IPO lost money
after a design flaw in Nasdaq’s software delayed the stock’s
open and left them confused about whether or not they owned
shares. In May 2013,  Nasdaq  agreed to pay $10 million to settle
Securities and Exchange Commission charges that its mishandling
was a violation of securities laws.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority $41.6 million
estimate of claims represents 13 percent of Nasdaq OMX’s net
income from the past four quarters, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Some claims weren’t approved, including those by firms that
delayed entering orders to purchase Facebook shares as they
awaited confirmations that earlier trades went through.  The pricing of the first public Facebook transaction, a
trade known as the IPO cross, took a half hour longer than
Nasdaq OMX planned because of technical malfunctions. Days
later, Nasdaq OMX Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld 
acknowledged “poor design” in software put the opening auction
into a loop that delayed its completion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  