-- National Radio Network Board Asks for a Procurement Probe
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-10-25T17:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/national-radio-network-board-asks-for-a-procurement-probe.html
The head of the U.S. authority
building a radio system for firefighters and other emergency
workers that could cost as much as $40 billion said he asked the
Commerce Department’s inspector general to investigate
procurement by the program.  Sam Ginn, chairman of the  First Responder Network
Authority , made the announcement today during a meeting of the
entity’s board. The authority is building a national system to
avoid communications failures like those that plagued emergency
workers during the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.  Ginn said he wants the authority to cooperate as the
inspector general follows complaints raised in April by Sheriff
Paul Fitzgerald of Story County,  Iowa .  “A faction led by industry members of this board proceeds
without us,” Fitzgerald said, according to a copy of his
remarks distributed by e-mail.  The group’s board has meetings and conference calls that
aren’t publicly announced or disclosed, and aren’t subject to
public observation, Fitzgerald said.  Requesting action by the inspector general is “really due
to the complicated nature of procurement,” Ginn said during the
meeting held via a telephone conference call.  The U.S. is planning to build the network, know as
FirstNet, to supplant today’s patchwork of municipal emergency
radio systems that impedes communication between agencies.  The U.S. government has dedicated $7 billion to FirstNet’s
construction, and the total expenditure has been estimated at
$18 billion to $40 billion, which doesn’t include the cost of
radios, according to a report last year by the  Congressional
Research Service .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  