-- Natural Gas Climbs in Survey as Cooler Weather Boosts Fuel Use
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-10-25T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/natural-gas-climbs-in-survey-as-cooler-weather-boosts-fuel-use.html
Natural gas futures may advance next
week on speculation that an eastern U.S. cold spell will spur
heating-fuel demand and slow the pace of stockpile gains.  Eight of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, or 57 percent,
predicted that futures will gain on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  through Nov. 1. Four, or 29 percent, said gas will
decline and two predicted prices will stay the same. Last week,
58 percent of participants said gas would increase.  Temperatures will be below normal on the East Coast and in
the central U.S. through Oct. 28 with unusually cold weather
lingering in the Midwest through Nov. 2, said Commodity Weather
Group LLC. A government report yesterday showed gas  supply gains 
topped the five-year average for a fifth week.  “It is all demand-driven at this point, as supplies
continue to build,” said Teri Viswanath, director of
commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “Luckily,
we are entering our peak demand period when these supply gains
will eventually be less noticeable.”  Natural gas futures fell 13.5 cents, or 3.6 percent, to
$3.629 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week on the Nymex, heading for the fourth weekly
drop since Sept. 20. The futures are up 8.3 percent this year.  The low temperature in  Washington  on Oct. 28 may be 44
degrees Fahrenheit (7 Celsius), 3 below normal, and the next day
 Minneapolis  may drop to 33 degrees, 2 lower than average,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  Cold Moderates  The shot of cold air will moderate in the first week of
November, when readings across the lower 48 states will be in
line with seasonal norms, said Commodity Weather, based in
Bethesda,  Maryland .  About 49 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating
while 39 percent use electricity, according to the Energy
Information Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department.  Gas inventories expanded by 87 billion cubic feet in the
week ended Oct. 18 to 3.741 trillion, above the five-year
average of 67 billion for the period, the EIA said yesterday.
Analysts predicted a gain of 82 billion. A  supply surplus  to the
five-year average widened to 2.1 percent from 1.6 percent.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  8      4      2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  