-- NCAA Loses Bid to Dismiss Ex-Athletes’ Antitrust Claims
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-10-25T22:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/ncaa-loses-bid-to-dismiss-ex-athletes-antitrust-claims-in-suit.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  lost a bid to dismiss antitrust claims in a lawsuit
brought by ex-student athletes over the use of their images and
likenesses on television and in video games.  U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken in Oakland,  California ,
today denied the NCCA’s request to throw out claims by the
former college basketball and football players that the
association conspired to block them from commercial use of their
names, images and likenesses.  A four-year-old lawsuit by former University of California-Los Angeles college basketball forward Ed O’Bannon challenges
the traditional notion that only the NCAA, conferences and
schools can profit from selling the rights to players’
likenesses used in broadcasts and other media.  The Indianapolis, Indiana-based NCAA says the claims are
trumped by its rules designating college athletes as amateurs.
The U.S. Supreme Court in a 1984 ruling upheld those rules,
which barred any payment to student players in order to preserve
the quality and character of college sports.  Wilken said rules maintaining “the revered tradition of
amateurism in college sports” don’t “stand for the sweeping
proposition that student-athletes must be barred, both during
their college years and forever thereafter, from receiving any
monetary compensation for the commercial use of the names,
images and likenesses.”  Antitrust Claims  Wilken said the NCAA may still challenge the athletes’
antitrust claims at a later stage of the case, and the players
will need to show evidence that archival game footage and live
game broadcasts were used primarily for commercial purposes. She
gave the NCAA 14 days to respond to the athletes’ amended
complaint.  Donald Remy, NCAA’s chief legal officer, said the antitrust
issues in the case will be decided later.  “We continue to believe the rules establishing the revered
traditions of college sports are fully consistent with the
antitrust laws, as the U.S. Supreme Court and other court have
repeatedly made clear,” said Remy by e-mail. “We expect to
seek judgment in our favor on these new live broadcast claims in
our upcoming summary judgment motion.”  Wilken is weighing the players’ request to certify the
lawsuit as a class action, or group, lawsuit that would cover
tens of thousands of athletes whose interests would be
represented in a single case.  Video Games  O’Bannon alleged that the NCAA conspired with video game
maker  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  to restrain athletes’ ability to
profit from the use of their likenesses. EA announced in
September that it settled claims against it and will pay
athletes $40 million. The second-largest U.S. video-game
publisher also said it was canceling its college football title
for next year because of legal issues.  “It’s a fairly one-sided order in favor of the student
athletes and opens the pathway to have their claims under
antitrust laws to be heard,” Robert Carey, O’Bannon’s attorney
said by phone. A trial has been scheduled for 2015, he said.  The case is In re NCAA Student-Athlete Name & Likeness
Licensing Litigation, 09-cv-01967, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in  San Francisco  at 
Or  kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  