-- NFL Point Spreads Soar While Number of Close Games Sets a Record
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-25T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/nfl-point-spreads-soar-while-number-of-close-games-sets-a-record.html
Midway through a season of record-setting close finishes, the National Football League is
preparing for a weekend that oddsmakers predict will be loaded
with blowouts.  Through the first seven weeks, 69 percent of NFL games were
within seven points during the fourth quarter, the most in
league history.  This weekend, five of the 12 games have point spreads that
reached 10 or more, just the fourth time in 14 years that there
have been that many double-digit favorites in a single week
during the first half of the season, according to  Pregame.com , a
Las Vegas-based handicapping information website. The average
spread for the entire slate is almost eight points, 2 1/2 points
more than usual since 2000.  “With the way NFL teams are scoring points, a lot is the
public perception,” said David Pemberton, specialty games
director at the Rio Hotel and Casino’s Race & Sports Book in Las
Vegas. “If you don’t put a good-sized number out there, the
betting is going to be one-sided.”  Bookmakers design point spreads to get an equal amount of
money wagered on each team, then profit off the vigorish -- the
fees charged to bettors.  The San Francisco 49ers, New Orleans Saints, Denver
Broncos, Seattle Seahawks and Green Bay Packers have all been
favored by 10 points or more this week.  NFL teams combined for a record 4,928 points through the
first seven weeks of the 16-game season, eclipsing the previous
high of 4,803 last year.  Close Finishes  Even with a game average of 46.1 total points, teams in  74
of the 107 games through Week 7 were separated by seven or fewer
points in the fourth quarter. Twenty-nine of those were decided
by fourth-quarter comebacks, or 27 percent, the second-highest
mark in league history.  The 49ers (5-2) are the biggest favorites this week, with
the 0-7 Jacksonville Jaguars listed as 16 1/2-point underdogs
for the teams’ Oct. 27 game in  London . The Jaguars two weeks ago
were record 26 1/2- to 27 1/2-point underdogs against the
Broncos and trailed by only two points late in the third quarter
before losing 35-19.  “They’re a young team in many areas, one in the secondary,
but they fly around,” 49ers coach Jim Harbaugh told reporters
this week. “They play with great effort. And those are
dangerous teams when you can see them getting better.”  The Saints (5-1) have been listed as high as -12 1/2
against the Buffalo Bills (3-4). The Broncos, 6-1 after their
first loss of the season, are favored by 12 1/2 points at home
against the 2-4 Washington Redskins.  Biggest Favorites  The Seahawks (6-1) are at -10 1/2 against the St. Louis
Rams (3-4), who lost starting quarterback Sam Bradford to a
season-ending knee injury. The Packers (4-2) were listed at -10
at sports books such as Bovada.lv against the Minnesota Vikings
(1-5).  “You’ve got a lot of the good teams playing the bad
teams,” Pemberton said in a telephone interview. “But some of
the bad ones have put up a pretty good fight. These teams are
professionals. They know what these lines are and when they see
a big line like that they’re bound to be more motivated.”  The betting line for the undefeated Kansas City Chiefs’
home game against the Cleveland Browns, who are making a change
to quarterback Jason Campbell this week, has climbed to nine
points at some online sports books.  Lopsided Weekend  The only time there have been six 10-point favorites in the
NFL since 2000 was Week 12 of the 2009 season, according to
Pregame.com.  Two games this week -- Pittsburgh at Oakland and Atlanta at
 Arizona  -- have spreads of less than three points. The New York
Giants (1-6), after their first win of the season in Week 7, are
5 1/2- to six-point underdogs on the road against the division-rival Philadelphia Eagles (3-4).  The New York Jets (4-3) are 6 1/2- to 7-point underdogs
against the Cincinnati Bengals (5-2), a week after knocking off
the favored New England Patriots.  “We just have to focus on this team,” Jets coach Rex Ryan
said this week. “The fact we’re playing Cincinnati, who’s
probably as hot as any team in the league right now, that’s
enough to think about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  