-- Nigerian Rebels Claim Contact With Kidnappers of Americans
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   L a r r y   L i e b e r t
-- 2013-10-25T10:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/nigerian-rebel-group-claims-contact-with-kidnappers-of-americans.html
A Nigerian militant group said it’s
in contact with the captors of two U.S. citizens abducted off
the coast of the West African nation and is working to ensure
they are well treated before being freed.  The unidentified Americans were seized from a vessel called
the C-Retriever in the Gulf of Guinea yesterday in an act of
piracy, the State Department said. The kidnappings were carried
out by a “heavily armed auxiliary outfit” that made contact
with a commander of the Movement for the Emancipation of the
 Niger Delta , the group said in an e-mailed statement.  “The Americans will not be handed over for our direct
custody, but we will have the influence to visit them and ensure
that they are well looked after before their subsequent
release,”  Jomo Gbomo , the spokesman of the movement that’s
known as MEND, said in the statement.  West African piracy overtook Somali attacks as the greatest
threat to crews of merchant ships for the first time in 2012,
according to organizations including the International Maritime
Bureau. Before the latest incident, seven vessels were hijacked
this year in the Gulf of Guinea and 132 crew taken hostage,
according to Oct. 17 data from the London-based agency that
tracks crime at sea.  Nigeria is the seventh-biggest producer in the 12-member
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in September. West
Africa shipped about 10 percent of the world’s crude last year,
the most after the  Middle East  and the former Soviet Union,
according to figures from London-based  BP Plc. (BP/)   ‘Disturbing Increase’  “We are concerned by the disturbing increase in the
incidents of maritime crime, including incidents of piracy off
the coast of West Africa, specifically in the Gulf of Guinea,”
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday in
 Washington . “And we have and will continue to work with West
African governments to build the capacity and political will
needed to address piracy and related criminal activity.”  State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said she couldn’t
identify the captured crew members of the C-Retriever for
privacy reasons. The vessel is an offshore supply ship owned by
Offshore Service Vessels LLC of Cut Off,  Louisiana , an affiliate
of Edison Chouest Offshore International.  “Our concern at this point is for the safe return” of the
two crew members of the ship, Harf told reporters yesterday in
Washington  Soldiers Ambushed  Attacks including kidnappings and bombing of oil
installations by groups including MEND cut more than 28 percent
of Nigeria’s oil output from 2006 to 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The violence declined after thousands of
fighters accepted a government amnesty offer in 2009 and
disarmed.  Troops in a boat escorting construction workers to a site
in the Andoni district of the delta were ambushed on the Ikuru
River on Oct. 22, leaving two soldiers dead, Onyema Nwachukwu, a
spokesman for the military  task force  in charge of security in
the region, said today in an e-mailed statement. No group has
claimed responsibility for the attack blamed by the army on
pirates.  The increase in piracy off the coast of Nigeria comes as
officials cite a decline in attacks off  Somalia  in East Africa
amid tighter security and better intelligence to protect ships.  “Compared to 99 attacks in the first nine months of 2012,
17 attacks occurred against ships in the waters off the coast of
Somalia in the first nine months of 2013, in which pirates were
able to briefly hijack two dhows,” United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in an Oct. 21 report to the  Security
Council , citing reports from the  International Maritime
Organization .  The 2009 hijacking of the container ship Maersk Alabama in
the  Indian Ocean  by Somali pirates has gained new attention
through “Captain Phillips,” a movie dramatizing the incident
that stars  Tom Hanks .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert in Washington at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  