-- North Korea Repatriates 6 South Koreans in Goodwill Gesture
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-10-25T10:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/north-korea-repatriates-six-south-korean-detainees-after-pardon.html
North Korea  pardoned six South
Korean detainees in a goodwill gesture that could help revive
talks on extending economic ties with the South.  The North handed the six over to the South Korean side of
the jointly-managed border village of Panmunjom at 4:50 p.m.
today, the Unification Ministry said in a text message, without
giving any information about their identities.  North Korea “leniently pardoned them and decided to send
them back to the south side to let them reunite with their
families from a humanitarian point of view as they honestly
admitted and reflected on their crime,” the official Korean
Central News Agency said.  The repatriation took place at a time of strained relations
between the governments after the North last month canceled
reunions of families separated by the Korean War. The sides also
failed to agree on talks for resuming South Korean tours to a
North Korean mountain that had provided millions of dollars
annually for the Kim Jong Un regime before they were stopped in
2008.  “North Korea appears to hope this can nudge  South Korea  to
make concessions and agree to talks on Mount Geumgang tours,”
Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of North Korea
Studies in Seoul, said by phone. “The North is also sending a
message to the U.S. that it may take a similar humanitarian step
over Kenneth Bae.”  Detained American  Bae, a tour operator and Christian missionary from
Washington State, was arrested in North Korea in November and
remains imprisoned after being accused of “hostile acts”
against the country. North Korea earlier this month allowed his
mother to enter the country and visit him.  More than 500 South Koreans detained by the North hadn’t
been returned as of 2012, according to the Unification Ministry.
They were part of more than 3,800 people kidnapped by the North
since the end of the  Korean War  in 1953 that cemented the
division of the two countries. The Unification Ministry didn’t
indicate whether any in today’s group were victims of kidnapping
or had been detained after traveling to the North.  Most of those kidnapped were fishermen. In September, a
South Korean managed to escape the North 41 years after his
fishing boat was seized.  “North Korea appears to be discarding something that is no
longer useful as a bargaining chip,” Ahn Chan Il, a political
scientist who heads the World Institute for North Korea Studies,
said by phone. “I suspect North Korea may be starting another
psychological game with South Korea.”  Missionaries  The group may include four unidentified South Koreans who
North Korea said in 2010 had been detained for illegal entry,
Unification Ministry spokesman Kim Eui Do said earlier at a
briefing, without giving more detail. Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae
wasn’t able confirm whether detained missionaries were among the
group.  The North’s  Red Cross  notified the South yesterday of the
plan to repatriate the detainees, who are all men ranging from
age 27 to 67, the ministry said in e-mailed statements.  “This appears to be a humanitarian gesture with a message
that South Korea should also make goodwill gestures in other
issues” such as suspended cross-border tours, Kim Soo Am, a
North Korea researcher at the government-affiliated  Korea
Institute for National Unification  in Seoul, said yesterday by
phone. “North Korea understands it can’t always rely on
tension.”  Citizens of the Koreas are not allowed to travel to the
other side without approval, as the countries technically remain
in a state of war after the 1950-53 conflict ended without a
peace agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  