-- Norway Wealth Fund CEO Indicates Purchase in Empire State Realty
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r   a n d   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-10-25T11:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/norway-wealth-fund-ceo-indicates-purchase-in-empire-state-realty.html
Norway ’s sovereign wealth fund, the
world’s largest, indicated it took part in the $929.5 million
initial public offering by the  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESRT)   The listing of the company, whose properties include
 Manhattan ’s Empire State Building, is an offer that would
typically interest the $810 billion fund, according to Yngve Slyngstad, chief executive officer of the wealth fund, which
goes under the name of the Government Pension Fund Global.  “In IPOs of this size, it’s fair to assume that we have
participated,” he said in an interview in Oslo today. He
stopped short of an explicit confirmation, referring to the
fund’s policy not to comment on individual investments. A person
with direct knowledge of the fund’s transactions said it was
among the top 10 stock buyers in the company. The person asked
not to be identified because the fund hasn’t published the
information.  The wealth fund’s equity, fixed-income and real-estate
holdings returned 5 percent in the third quarter thanks to a
monetary stimulus-fueled stock rally, it said today. Market
gains could reverse and the fund is not currently using its
inflow of capital, which it gets from Norway’s oil and gas
production, the state’s dividends from  Statoil ASA (STL)  and interest
in offshore  oil fields , to buy new equity, Slyngstad said.  Share Increase  Shares in the Empire State Realty have jumped 8.4 percent
to $14.1 since it started trading in  New York  at the beginning
of this month.  While Empire State Realty shares would be classified as an
equity investment, Norway’s Oil Fund, as it’s also called, is
looking to increase its real estate holdings to 5 percent from
today’s 0.9 percent of total investments. After acquiring
commercial property in cities such as London and Paris from
2010, it agreed last month to buy a 45 percent share in the
Times Square Tower office building in New York for $684 million.  The fund, which is also operating a geographical shift in
investments to tap into growth in  emerging markets , held 63.6
percent of its holdings in stocks and 35.5 percent in bonds as
of the end of last month. It held an average of 1.2 percent of
the world’s listed companies at the end of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net ;
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  