-- NQ Mobile Slumps After Denying Muddy Waters ‘Fraud’ Call
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-10-25T20:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/nq-mobile-says-muddy-waters-alleagations-are-wrong.html
NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  sank, extending its
two-day slide to more than 50 percent, as the Chinese mobile-security service provider denied Muddy Waters LLC’s allegation
that it inflated revenue.  NQ Mobile slumped 12 percent to $10.63 in New York after
plunging 47 percent yesterday as Muddy Waters, the research firm
founded by short seller  Carson Block , initiated coverage of the
stock with a strong sell rating. The company inflated revenue
and is a “massive fraud,” according to Block.  “We welcome any third party the opportunity to check the
company cash,” Matt Mathison, the vice president of capital
markets at NQ Mobile, said in a conference call this morning set
up to answer Muddy Waters’ claims. “The truth and the facts are
on our side.”  Block said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television
that NQ Mobile will end up like Sino-Forest Corp., the Chinese
plantation company listed in  Canada  that filed for bankruptcy
protection last year after Muddy Waters claimed that it
exaggerated its revenue. Not all of Block’s short bets have paid
off. Investors in  American Tower Corp. (AMT) , the Boston-based
operator of cell-phone antennas, were unshaken by Block’s claims
on July 17 that the company is worth less than its share price,
and the stock has gained 8.9 percent since the report.  NQ Mobile, whose shares had risen 279 percent this year
through Oct. 23., said it plans to take all appropriate legal
actions to defend itself against Muddy Waters’s charges and to
protect the interest of shareholders.  ‘False and Inaccurate’  “The allegations and accusations set forth in the Muddy
Waters report are false and inaccurate and contain numerous
errors of facts, misleading speculations and malicious
interpretations of events,” the company said in a statement
distributed by PRNewswire today. “The report makes many
misrepresentations about the company, its management team, as
well as misrepresentations about its products.”  The company will go forward with its previously announced
$35 million stock buyback program after a blackout period
following the release of its earnings on Nov. 12.  “We have a share buyback in place we’re ready to use it
aggressively,” Mathison said.  NQ Mobile, whose co-chief executive officer is Omar Khan, a
former Samsung Electronics Co. chief strategy officer, raised
its 2013 revenue estimate to as much as $188 million on Aug. 12
from the upper limit of its prior forecast of $184 million.  “We believe it is a zero,” Block wrote in an e-mailed
report yesterday on NQ Mobile. “At least 72 percent of NQ’s
purported 2012  China  security revenue is fictitious.”  ‘Red Flag’  Block gained fame for his short-selling calls after
regulators halted trading in four of the first five companies he
targeted starting in June 2010. A short sale is one in which
stock is borrowed and sold, with the hope of profit by
repurchasing the shares later at a lower price to be returned to
the lender.  “We have seen companies defraud auditors numerous times in
China with forged bank statements,” Block said in the Bloomberg
Television interview. NQ “cited certain companies elsewhere in
China that had all-cash at Level 2,” but that is not the case,
Block said. “This is a major red flag.”  Muddy Waters alleged Tianjin Yidatong, NQ’s largest trade
debtor, is controlled by NQ Mobile and not an independent
company, according to the report on its Website.  The company will disclose information it has never revealed
before because of competition in order to prove the accuracy of
its financial statement, Khan said on the call.  ‘Obscure Markets’  Regulators will act against NQ “aggressively,” Block said
on television. “We pointed out that of all the China companies,
Omar Khan is not a director of any of the Chinese companies. It
is clear that he is not involved in the management or oversight
of any of the China companies.”  NQ Mobile’s market share in China is about 1.5 percent,
versus the approximate 55 percent it reports, Block wrote. The
company’s paying user base in China is less than 250,000, versus
the six million NQ Mobile claims, he said.  Muddy Waters’s accusations show “gross misunderstanding of
how the carrier ecosystem works in China,” Khan said in a
telephone interview on Bloomberg Television. NQ has six million
users in China and 11.3 million globally, he said.  The company, which has added online games and a music
search application to its services, released NQ Live, a mobile
Internet platform that can be customized, Jun Zhang, an analyst
at Wedge Partners Corp., wrote in a report this week.  “NQ claims to generate international revenue in obscure
markets, and through mysterious counterparties that seem to
seldom pay,” Block wrote.  NQ said it will set up an independent committee that will
review Muddy Waters’s allegations, according to a separate
PRNewswire statement.  Muddy Waters questioned the ownership of some of  New
Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) ’s schools in July
2012, and the private education company has rallied 188 percent
since that date.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  