-- Numericable Is Said to Seek IPO Valuation of Up to $8.3 Billion
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-10-25T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/numericable-is-said-to-seek-ipo-valuation-of-up-to-8-3-billion.html
Numericable SAS plans to announce
next week a  price range  for an initial public offering that
would value the French cable-TV provider at as much as 6 billion
euros ($8.3 billion), said two people familiar with the matter.  The company’s enterprise value, which includes debt, will
be in a range of 5 billion euros to 6 billion euros, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the pricing
hasn’t been made public. Numericable, which competes with  Orange
SA (ORA)  in selling TV, phone and high-speed Internet packages, had
net debt of about 2.8 billion euros as of June 30.  Numericable is joining French companies including Web-advertising company Criteo SA and floor maker Tarkett SA
attempting to list at home and in the U.S. this quarter. The
cable provider’s IPO will likely be the largest listing in Paris
since December 2009, when automotive distributor  CFAO SA (CFAO)  raised
more than 800 million euros.  Numericable, based in Champs-sur-Marne,  France , is holding
a press conference on Oct. 28. Marie-Gabrielle Sorin, a
representative for the company, declined to comment on the
details of the press event.  IPO volumes in Europe have nearly doubled to about $19
billion this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
investors resumed buying on strengthening economies and an
easing euro debt crisis.  High-Speed Demand  Chief Executive Officer Eric Denoyer said in an interview
this month that Numericable plans to appeal to investors by
tapping into rising demand for speedier Internet connections.  In September, the cable carrier filed for the IPO, planning
a capital increase of a range of 200 million euros to 250
million euros.  The company forecasts revenue growth of 2 percent to 5
percent a year from 2013 to 2016, with an adjusted margin on
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of 50 percent in 2016. Last year, sales shrank 0.3 percent to
1.3 billion euros and the Ebitda margin was 47.6 percent.  The cable company’s owners include private-equity firms
Carlyle Group LP, Cinven Group Ltd. and Altice.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are managing the
share sale, along with banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net  