-- Obamacare’s Excellent Prognosis
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-25T13:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/obamacare-s-excellent-prognosis.html
Obamacare is in trouble. The federal
website for buying insurance  is a disaster , half the states have
 refused  to expand Medicaid, and whether the whole thing will
actually save money is still  uncertain .  Big as these problems are, however, the project’s potential
value is as great as ever, and its odds of success remain high.
Bet against it at your peril.  Let’s remember why this project was undertaken in the first
place. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is the
U.S.’s only plausible shot at providing health insurance for all
its citizens -- something that voters in other advanced
economies have long taken entirely for granted. The U.S. already
spends  50 percent more  on health care than any other developed
country, yet it has the lowest coverage rates and some of the
 worst  health outcomes in the developed world. The status quo is
absurdly expensive and outrageously unfair.  Changing this is a colossal task that was never going to be
easy. Acknowledging this doesn’t excuse the surprising
incompetence of President  Barack Obama ’s administration in
preparing for the rollout of the insurance exchanges: Given the
stakes, the shambles of the past few weeks should never have
been allowed to happen. Nonetheless, the purposes and basic
design of the reform effort remain as valid as before, as time
will prove.  Embarrassment aside, does the HealthCare.gov  debacle 
threaten the project’s medium-term viability? What if it so
discourages people that a significant number decide not to sign
up even after the site is fixed, or if the problems linger so
long that the mandate to carry insurance must be suspended?  Even such bleak scenarios would not necessarily be fatal to
the law. People who decide not to use the exchanges to buy
insurance for 2014 can still do so in future years. The
 Congressional Budget Office  has already  assumed  that use of the
exchanges will almost double in the law’s second year, and then
double again the year after. One year of lower-than-projected
enrollment won’t break the system.  A more serious question for the long run is how well the
exchanges will succeed at bringing down costs. The law’s
opponents have predicted  “rate shock”  by using a false
comparison: between the cost of individual policies from the
days when insurers could discriminate based on people’s health
and what they cost on the exchanges now that nobody can be
denied.  What matters is whether insurers are able to offer policies
on the exchanges at prices people are willing to pay, after
accounting for federal subsidies. As insurers conclude that the
law is here to stay, more will offer exchange-based plans,
increasing competition and  driving prices down .  The most pressing issue for Obamacare is to persuade more
states to expand their Medicaid programs to all those with
incomes up to 138 percent of the federal poverty line, a crucial
part of the law that last year’s  Supreme Court  ruling made
optional. Only 25 states have said they’ll do so, leaving more
than  5 million people  -- not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid
on the present terms, too poor to qualify for the federal
subsidy -- without coverage.  Bear in mind, though, that the states that have opted out
won’t find it easy to sustain that position. Some Republican-led
states that initially opposed the expansion have since signed on
-- including  Arizona ,  Ohio  and  Arkansas . In others, such as
Florida and  Missouri , governors are still working to sway
legislators. And lawmakers in every noncomplying state are
feeling  pressure  from health-care providers who want the new
revenue. Most will eventually come around; remember, it took 17
years before all 50 states signed up for the initial Medicaid
program.  One way of looking at the past three weeks is to say that
governments inevitably screw up big projects such as this.
Another, and no less valid, view is that far-reaching reform is
often slow and painful. This one is worth the effort, and in
time, it will succeed.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 