-- Obama Says Congress Must Keep Priority on Education
-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 2013-10-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/obama-says-congress-must-keep-priority-on-education.html
President  Barack Obama  warned that
other nations are pulling ahead of the U.S. in global economic
competition as he campaigned for his budget goals at a high
school and a Democratic fundraising event in New York.  The president yesterday urged Congress to pass a budget
that sets the “right priorities” by putting money into
education and other programs that will help advance economic
growth.  The U.S. needs “some political courage in  Washington ,”
Obama told students, faculty and elected officials at Pathways
in Technology Early College High School in Brooklyn. “We need
to work together to grow the economy, not shrink it”  Without directly mentioning congressional Republicans, the
president said that the 16-day partial government shutdown this
month demonstrated skewed priorities, and he criticized “this
obsession with cutting just for the sake of cutting” when it
comes to the federal  budget .  “We just went through an episode that expressed
Washington’s dysfunctions in ways that we haven’t seen in quite
some time,” Obama said last night at the fundraising event.  Obama is pressing for his spending priorities as Democrats
and Republicans seek to negotiate a budget agreement over the
next several weeks.  The deal to end the government shutdown and avert the
threat of a U.S. default set Dec. 13 as the deadline to come up
with plan on taxes and spending. Funding of the government at
Republican-backed levels runs through Jan. 15.  Strategy Session  Obama held a conference call earlier yesterday to talk
about strategy with Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , House
Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi , Senate Budget Committee Chairman
 Patty Murray  and Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the ranking
Democrat on the House Budget Committee.  “We don’t have to choose between growth and fiscal
responsibility,” Obama said during his appearance at the
Brooklyn high school. “We can do both.”  The school visit was part of the administration’s
continuing effort to promote education in science, technology,
engineering and math as a foundation for a high-tech economy.  The school, known as P-Tech, was cited by Obama in his
 State of the Union  address earlier this year as an example of
collaboration between schools and private industry to enhance
education.  Before his remarks, Obama toured the school and spoke with
small groups of students about their interests and studies. He
told one group that even if they don’t choose careers in
science, technology or math, “just the discipline of training
yourself to think systematically” is valuable.  ‘Common Sense’  At the fundraiser last night for the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee, the president expressed
concern that “ideology ends up overcoming common sense” in
Washington.  “Too often, our politics have come detached from the day
to-day lives of ordinary people,” Obama said.  The president attended a reception hosted by Kathryn Chenault, wife of American Express Chief Executive Officer
 Kenneth Chenault , followed by a dinner hosted by Kampack Inc.
CEO Karen Mehiel.  Among the 60 guests set to attend were producer  Harvey Weinstein , BET Holdings LLC Chairman Debra Lee, and former U.S.
Ambassador to Ireland Jean Kennedy Smith, according to a party
official, who asked not to be identified to talk about the event
at the Chenaults’ residence. Pelosi, of  California , and New York
Representative Steve Israel, the chairman of the campaign
committee, also are scheduled to be there.  Ticket prices were $16,200 per person.  Private Dinner  Obama followed the DCCC fundraiser with a private dinner
event with about 20 people to raise money for the  Democratic
National Committee  before returning to Washington.  The DCCC, the campaign arm of  House Democrats , raised $8.4
million in September, compared with $5.3 million for its
Republican counterpart. All of the House’s 435 seats are up for
election in 2014 and Democrats are attempting to regain a
majority in the chamber. Republicans currently control the House
231-200, with four seats vacant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Johnston at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net  