-- Obamacare Website Flaws Imperil President’s Activist Agenda
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-10-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/obamacare-website-flaws-imperil-activist-agenda-president-backs.html
The rocky debut of the insurance
exchanges at the heart of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
law poses risks to his political agenda and the activist role
for government that he has championed for his second term.  White House officials say they expect a surge in online
enrollment to begin in mid-November, meaning the administration
may have only about three weeks to fix the flaws before negative
public perceptions about the new program begin to harden.  “This is your signature program, and you’re marching it
onto the field and everybody stumbles,” said Peter Hart, a
veteran Democratic pollster. “It’s hard to see competency, and
it puts a giant question mark behind the future plans.”  Some Republicans have called it a  Katrina moment , likening
the health-care rollout to President  George W. Bush ’s botched
response to the 2005 hurricane that ravaged the Gulf Coast and
led to more than 1,800 deaths.  Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster, says Obama has time,
possibly even months, to fix the snags before suffering lasting
political damage from the initial performance of the website.  The public isn’t likely to hold early difficulties with the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act against Obama if they
fade quickly, said McInturff, who consulted with the  Bush
administration  on the Medicare prescription-drug rollout.  “There’s some tolerance in the beginning,” he said. “In
general, people are not shocked that you can have some problems
as a major new federal program gets off the ground.”  Addressing Issue  Obama -- whose second-term woes also have included Edward Snowden’s disclosures of National Security Agency telephone and
Internet surveillance and opposition to his request to use force
in Syria -- has moved to address the insurance-signup issue.  The president appeared in the White House Rose Garden on
Oct. 21, days after the conclusion of the government shutdown,
to promise action. He drafted Jeffrey Zients, a health-care
entrepreneur whom he had already chosen as his next top economic
adviser, to help mend the electronic marketplace.  Zients told reporters on a conference call yesterday that
the federal exchange,  healthcare.gov , will be fixed by December.
Ten Democratic senators led by Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire
called on the Obama administration to extend the health law’s
first open-enrollment period, now scheduled to end March 31.  Sentiment Shift  Public skepticism about government competence drove the
political shift from  Lyndon Johnson ’s Great Society programs of
the 1960s to  Ronald Reagan ’s limited-government philosophy in
the 1980s, said David Osborne, co-author of “Reinventing
Government.”  The perceived failures that reshaped public sentiment
lasted for years and had a far-reaching impact on society: the
 Vietnam War , urban race riots, soaring crime rates, failing
public schools and then-President  Jimmy Carter ’s inability to
rein in inflation, said Osborne, a former adviser to then-Vice
President  Al Gore . He said he doesn’t think the issues with the
exchange rise to that threshold.  For Obama, the health-care law is the centerpiece of a
first-term program that included an $830 billion economic
stimulus, ramped-up support for clean-energy production, and the
most far-reaching financial-regulatory law since the Depression.  He has set an expansive second-term agenda that includes a
revamp of immigration policy, action to control  climate change ,
greater access to pre-kindergarten education, and a boost in
infrastructure spending. Much of that agenda has been impeded by
the Republican-run House and the deadlock over taxes and
spending that led to the 16-day federal government shutdown.  First Impression  Americans’ initial impression of the online health-care
exchanges hasn’t been good. Twenty-nine percent say they are
working very or fairly well while 46 percent say they aren’t,
according to a Pew Research Center  poll  conducted Oct. 9-13.  The federal website was hobbled by software errors and
overwhelmed by higher-than-anticipated consumer demand after it
opened on Oct. 1. About 8.6 million people visited the site in
the first week, running into long waits that kept many from
registering to check out insurance options.  At one point, the online exchange posted error messages in
at least 24 states. Independent, state-run web sites have seen
fewer waits and flaws.  Lawrence Summers , Obama’s former top economic adviser,
voiced concern Oct. 24 at a conference hosted by the Center for
American Progress, a research group that advocates a greater
federal role in addressing social issues. The website’s flaws
won’t help “if we want to renew confidence in the public
sector,” Summers said, according to Slate magazine.  States Succeed  Several states running their own exchanges have reported
fewer issues than the federal marketplace, which was designed
for states that didn’t set up their own version. Many Republican
governors refused to do so because they opposed the program.  Massachusetts, which has operated an exchange since 2006
and revised its system to comply with the federal law, saw
23,025 applications for insurance started since Oct. 1 and 7,592
completed, Jason Lefferts, a spokesman, said Oct. 24.  California, the most-populous state with an economy that
would be the world’s ninth largest if it were a country,
embraced the law and established a state exchange. More than
125,000 insurance applications were started as of Oct. 19,
according to a statement from the exchange, Covered California.  Nonetheless, Michael Gerson, a former chief speechwriter
for Bush, said the federal website’s flaws have “potent
symbolism” with voters because they are “right at the point of
interaction” with the government in the president’s signature
domestic initiative.  The exchanges are administered by government, though the
insurance sold on them is issued by private companies.  ‘Inherent Fear’  “It’s going to add to an undifferentiated skepticism of
government action on a vast scale,” Gerson said. “Americans
have an inherent fear of take-a-number-and-wait medicine. This
website is the embodiment of take-a-number-and-wait medicine.
You don’t even get a number and you have to wait.”  Gerson drew a parallel with the political importance some
state governors have placed on improving  customer service  at
motor-vehicle facilities because that’s a common direct
experience voters have with government.  Former Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels , a Republican,
demanded biweekly reports on the average time customers had to
spend at the state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles, according to
spokeswoman Shelley Triol.  “There’s a reason they do that,” Gerson said.  Doubting Government  Hart, the Democratic pollster, said he expects to see the
experience of the federal exchanges highlighted by Obama critics
as another reason to doubt government’s capacity to deliver.
That could include the president’s proposed revamp of
immigration law to allow a pathway to citizenship for
undocumented workers in the U.S., he said.  “You can see how the opposition will take this and extend
it to immigration and other programs,” Hart said. “If you
can’t sign up people who blah, blah, blah, we’re talking about
12 million people who are roaming this country illegally.”  Democratic supporters of Obamacare argue that the public
will consider the insurance plans a good value once the system
is up and running. Former Republican National Committee Chairman
 Haley Barbour  and other critics predict the opposite.  Barbour said the issues with the website were reminiscent
of the Bush administration’s response to  Hurricane Katrina 
because it suggests “large-scale incompetence.”  Boosting Obama  Bolstering the Obama administration’s reputation for
competence are the killing of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin-Laden
under the president’s watch, the recovery of the economy from
the 2008 financial crisis and withdrawal of U.S. troops from
Iraq, Hart said.  Forty-nine percent of Americans said Obama is “able to get
things done” in a Pew Research Center  poll  taken in May. That’s
comparable to the 50 percent who described Bush that way in July
2005, just before Katrina, though lower than 64 percent for
President  Bill Clinton  in August 1997, when the economy was
expanding at a more than 5 percent pace.  While the federal online exchange is one of the most
visible components of Obamacare, only a minority of Americans is
likely to have direct experience with the site, Hart said.  Just 25 percent of the  U.S. population  is either uninsured
or covered through individual health policies -- the group most
likely to shop for insurance on the exchanges. The rest already
receive insurance through either an employer, Medicare, Medicaid
or other government program, according to 2012 data released
last month by the U.S. Census Bureau.  Easy Use  Even among those who shop through online exchanges, many
won’t use the federal website. Fourteen states, including such
heavily populated ones as New York, have insurance marketplaces
run by their own governments.  Avalere Health, a consulting firm in  Washington , projects
that 33 percent of enrollments in the Obamacare plans during the
first year will be processed through state-run exchanges.  That may be one reason why many people report satisfactory
experiences with online exchanges even with the federal
website’s woes. Among those who said they have visited an online
exchange, 56 percent said the website was very or fairly easy to
use, according to a Pew poll conducted Oct. 9-13.  McInturff, the Republican pollster, said Americans’ views
on the role of government in recent years have been in a
“steady state” that will be difficult to disrupt.  Responses have fluctuated within a narrow band in a Wall
Street Journal/NBC News  poll  that has asked 14 times since Obama
took office whether government “should do more” or “is doing
too many things,” McInturff said.  In February 2009, as Obama took office in the middle of the
economic crisis, 51 percent said government should “do more”
versus 40 percent who said it’s doing “too many things.”  In the most recent poll, taken Oct. 7-9 during the partial
government shutdown, 52 percent answered “do more” and 44
percent “too many things.”  By comparison, in December 1995, when Clinton and
Republican House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  were battling over the
 federal budget , 32 percent said government should do more
against 62 percent who said do less.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 