-- Hong Kong Protesters Press Leung to Issue TV License
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2013-10-26T07:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/hong-kong-protesters-press-leung-to-issue-television-license.html
Thousands of people rallied outside
the Hong Kong government’s headquarters yesterday, seeking to
pressure Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying into giving a
broadcasting permit to a startup operator.  Leung’s decision to reject the operator’s application while
awarding licenses to  PCCW Ltd. (8)  and  I-Cable Communications Ltd. (1097) ,
both controlled by billionaires, raised concerns that he favored
big business. At least 36,000 people marched on Oct. 20 in
protest, underlining discontent with his 16-month-old
administration. The crowd at yesterday’s rally was estimated by
organizers at more than 100,000 and by police at about 12,000,
government broadcaster Radio Television Hong Kong  reported .  “It’s more about justice and transparency for Hong Kong
than it is about a TV license,” said Gretel Chiu, a 27-year-old
protester outside her tent in front of the government
headquarters today. “We hope to press the government to explain
how they selected licensees.”  About two dozen demonstrators were camping outside the
government building today. They had been there since Oct. 20,
when thousands first rallied after the government refused to
give a license to  Hong Kong Television Network Ltd. (1137)  The campers
said they planned to stay there until at least Nov. 6.  The protests reflect concerns that Hong Kong’s policies
lack accountability and may undermine freedom of speech in the
semi-autonomous Chinese city. Discontent is rising in the former
British colony as a record wealth gap and a doubling of property
prices in four years squeeze workers.  Rising inequality has driven down poll ratings for Leung,
the city’s last leader to be chosen by a committee of business
and civic groups before full democracy promised in 2017. Hong
Kong, which was returned to  China  in 1997, is a Special
Administrative Region guaranteed its own freedoms and legal
system for 50 years as part of the handover agreement.  “We are here to ask the government to explain the reasons
behind the TV licensing decision, as there’s no transparency,”
said Choi Chun-ning, 28, who works in the finance industry, as
he joined other black-clad protesters last night outside the
government headquarters. “To me, the government has lost its
credibility.”  Shares Jump  Shares of Hong Kong Television, which said it will cut 320
jobs after its application was rejected on Oct. 15, jumped 14
percent yesterday as investors bet that Leung will bow to
popular pressure and reverse the call.  Workers at Hong Kong Television Network Ltd. are leading
the six-day protest, and Chairman Ricky Wong said this week the
company plans to file for a judicial review. Leung  said 
yesterday that the government will explain its decision in
court.  The protesters are seeking to repeat the success of a 10-day rally last October, when students camping outside government
headquarters led Leung to scrap a three-year deadline to
implement national education classes, which the demonstrators
said favored China’s Communist Party.  Increasing Competition  The free-to-air television permits awarded on Oct. 15 were
the first in almost 40 years, increasing competition for
existing operators  Television Broadcasts Ltd. (511)  and Asia
Television Ltd.  Television Broadcasts’ flagship channel has a 93 percent
audience share during prime time on weekdays, according to the
company’s 2012 interim report.  Advertisers spent an estimated HK$13 billion ($1.7 billion)
in Hong Kong in 2012, with television accounting for about a
third of that, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit said
in a February report, citing Magna Global.  Leung was picked by a committee of executives,
professionals and lawmakers for a five-year term, with China
promising universal suffrage in 2017. Opposition lawmakers
failed in a no-confidence motion against Leung on on Oct. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  