-- Orrick and Pillsbury Law Firms Are in Merger Talks
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-25T21:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/orrick-and-pillsbury-law-firms-are-in-merger-talks.html
(Corrects spelling of Pillsbury spokeswoman’s name in
penultimate paragraph.)  Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP
and Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP said they are in talks
about merging the San Francisco-based law firms.  “Our firms are in exploratory discussions about a possible
combination,” the law firms said today in a joint statement.
“These talks are serving to confirm the great respect our firms
have for each other.”  According to trade publication The American Lawyer, Orrick,
a 977-lawyer firm, had $866 million in gross revenue last year,
making it the 27th wealthiest firm in the country.  Pillsbury, with 609 lawyers and $561 million in gross
revenue last year, was ranked 56th in terms of wealth, according
to The American Lawyer rankings.  The announcement is consistent with accelerating
consolidation in the legal industry, said Kent Zimmermann, a
Chicago-based legal consultant for Zeughauser Group LLC.  “It seems like everyone is talking,” Zimmermann said.
“There are more firms now that are interested in pursuing a
combination. Some firms do deals out of necessity because
they’re weakening and other firms do it to double down and
become the best in their core areas of focus.”  U.S. law firms have entered 58 mergers so far this year,
compared to 60 in all of 2012, according to legal consultant
Altman Weil Inc.’s MergerLine.  Jaime E. Bruck, a Pillsbury spokeswoman, and Orrick
spokeswoman Adi Weisman declined to comment beyond the joint
statement.  Orrick has 25 offices in  North America ,  Europe  and  Asia ,
with more extensive coverage in Europe and Asia than Pillsbury,
according to the firm’s website. Pillsbury has 15 offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and  Abu Dhabi , according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn,  New York , at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia at
   spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  