-- Lower Manhattan Condo Seeks a Record $56.5 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-10-25T19:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/lower-manhattan-condo-seeks-a-record-56-5-million.html
A penthouse atop the Ritz-Carlton in
lower  Manhattan ’s Battery Park City is listed for sale at $56.5
million, the highest-ever asking price for a downtown home.  The 7,500-square-foot (697-square-meter) duplex condominium
at 10 West St. includes five bedrooms, five bathrooms and two
outdoor roof decks, one with a view of the Statue of Liberty,
according to the  listing  by Julie Kang, Matthew Gros-Werter and
Steven Forkosh, brokers at Platinum Realty Group.  If sold at the asking price, the deal would be a Manhattan
record for a property below 34th Street, according to  Jonathan Miller , president of New York-based appraisal firm Miller Samuel
Inc. The current downtown high was set in August, with the $42
million purchase of a penthouse at Zeckendorf Development Co.’s
18 Gramercy Park.  “It’s a surprising number,” Miller said of the Battery
Park City listing price. “But many sellers are emboldened by
past benchmarks that have been set.”  The city’s biggest completed transaction is the $88 million
sale last year of a penthouse at 15 Central Park West by former
Citigroup Inc. Chairman Sanford Weill. Since then, contracts
have been signed at more than $90 million each for apartments at
Extell Development Co.’s One57 and at  Harry Macklowe  and CIM
Group’s 432 Park Ave., which are under construction in Midtown.  “It’s really just a handful of sales that everybody points
out,” Miller said in an interview. “They speak for that
market, yet it gives the wrong impression that it’s
commonplace.”  ‘Incredible’ View  Gros-Werter said the “uniqueness” of the Ritz-Carlton
penthouse was a major reason for setting the asking price so
high. On the roof decks, “there’s nothing else in front of you
except the Statue of Liberty and the water to the south. And to
the north, there’s nothing but this incredible  New York  view
with nothing blocking it.”  This week, designer  Tommy Hilfiger  listed his duplex
apartment at New York’s Plaza for $80 million, which would
shatter the previous record of $48 million, paid two years ago,
for a unit at the building.  Steven A. Cohen , the billionaire founder of SAC Capital
Advisors LP, is seeking $115 million for his 9,000-square-foot
duplex at One Beacon Court. It has been  on the market  since
April, according to listings website StreetEasy.com.  “It’s a new marketing strategy for the super-luxury
market,” Miller said. “Price something at a record high and it
becomes talked about as if it were worth it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  