-- Toyota Settles Oklahoma Acceleration Case After Verdict
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-10-25T16:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/toyota-settles-oklahoma-acceleration-case-after-jury-verdict.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  settled a lawsuit
that brought a $3 million jury verdict over a claim that a
defect in a Camry made the vehicle suddenly accelerate and led
to an accident that left one woman dead and another injured.  An Oklahoma City jury yesterday awarded $1.5 million for
each claim and was scheduled to consider punitive damages today.
The terms of the settlement are confidential, plaintiffs’
attorney Cole Portis said today in a statement.  The lawsuit is one of several hundred filed against Toyota
in state and federal courts in the U.S. contending that the
company’s vehicles can spontaneously accelerate. It’s the first
test of a claim that a flaw in the vehicles’ electronic
throttle-control system is at fault.  “We are fully convinced that Toyota’s conduct from the
time the electronic throttle control system was designed has
been shameful,” Portis said. “Hopefully, Toyota will recall
all of their questionable vehicles and install a computer that
will be safe.”  The 2005 Camry driven by Jean Bookout, then 76, sped out of
control as she was exiting from an  Oklahoma  highway in September
2007, according to her lawyer Jere L. Beasley. Bookout couldn’t
stop the car and it crashed, injuring her and killing her
passenger and friend, Barbara Schwarz, 70, he said.  Toyota denied there were defects in Bookout’s Camry. The
state court jury rejected Toyota’s defense, handing the
automaker its first loss in a sudden-acceleration case.  Company Statement  “While we strongly disagree with the verdict, we are
satisfied that the parties reached a mutually acceptable
agreement to settle this case,” Carly Schaffner, a spokeswoman
for the Toyota City, Japan-based automaker, said in a statement.  “We remain committed to providing our customers with safe
and reliable vehicles, and we will continue to defend our
products vigorously at trial in other legal venues,” she said.  The carmaker recalled more than 10 million vehicles for
problems related to unintended acceleration in 2009 and 2010,
starting with a September 2009 announcement that it was
recalling 3.8 million Toyota and Lexus vehicles because of a
defect that might cause floor mats to jam accelerator pedals.
The company later recalled vehicles over defects involving the
pedals themselves.  The recalls led to lawsuits claiming that defects harmed
the value of  Toyota vehicles  or caused accidents leading to
death and injury. Toyota settled suits claiming economic losses
for about $1.6 billion.  Toyota Wins  Toyota won the three sudden-acceleration claims that
previously reached jury verdicts since the recalls. The defense
verdicts include injury cases in  New York  in 2011 and in
Philadelphia in June. A Los Angeles jury in October cleared
Toyota of fault for the death of a 66-year-old woman.  Toyota is facing a fifth trial next month in federal court
in  Santa Ana ,  California , where about 200 death and injury cases
are pending. Another is set for trial in February in state court
in  Michigan .  In many of the death and injury lawsuits, including
Bookout’s, plaintiffs claim that loose floor mats and sticky
pedals don’t explain all episodes of sudden acceleration and
that the electronic throttle control system is at fault.
Bookout’s vehicle, a 2005 Camry, wasn’t included in the recalls.  Lawyers suing Toyota say that reports of unintended
acceleration increased after Toyota began to equip vehicles with
its ETCS-i system, whereby the engine’s throttle is controlled
electronically, not mechanically. Signals are sent from a sensor
that detects how far the gas pedal is pressed to a computer
module that opens and closes the throttle.  The lawyers claim that outside electronic signals can
trigger the throttle and that the brakes can’t stop the surging
car. Bookout’s lawyers also claimed her vehicle should have had
a brake override system to slow her Camry.  Toyota has disputed any flaws in the electronic throttle.  The case is Bookout v. Toyota Motor Corp., CJ-2008-7969,
District Court, Oklahoma County, Oklahoma ( Oklahoma City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 