-- P&G Profit Rises 7.6% as Home Care Sales Gain
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-10-30T13:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/p-g-profit-rises-7-6-as-home-care-sales-gain.html
(Corrects chief executive officer’s comments in 21st
paragraph of story published Oct. 25.)  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s
largest consumer-products maker, said fiscal first-quarter
profit rose 7.6 percent as sales of home-care goods and baby
products gained.  Net income increased to $3.03 billion, or $1.04 a share,
from $2.81 billion, or 96 cents, a year earlier, Cincinnati-based P&G said today in a statement. Excluding some items,
profit was $1.05 a share, matching the average of 20 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer A.G. Lafley is working to reduce
costs and introduce new products after returning in May to
revive growth at the maker of Tide detergent, Crest toothpaste
and Pampers diapers. While he’s still struggling to accelerate
sales gains in beauty products, price cuts and increasing
spending on marketing have helped P&G regain ground from
Unilever in other categories.  “Market share is in the right direction,”  Ali Dibadj , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York , said today in
a telephone call. “There was nothing alarming or exciting about
the results. It’s still a show-me.”  Sales rose 2.2 percent to $21.2 billion. Analysts estimated
$21.1 billion, on average.  The company repeated its forecast that earnings excluding
some restructuring charges will increase 5 percent to 7 percent
this year.  P&G fell 0.8 percent to $80 at the close in New York. The
shares have gained 18 percent this year,  compared  with a 23
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Home-Care Sales  Sales excluding the effects of currency fluctuations as
well as acquisitions and divestitures in P&G’s fabric and home-care unit, which includes the Tide and Cascade brands, rose 6
percent. The segment produced almost one-third of the company’s
sales last year. Sales of baby, feminine and home care products
also rose 6 percent on that basis, which P&G calls organic
sales.  Such sales of beauty products grew 1 percent, a gain Dibadj
said was disappointing.  Foreign-currency exchange rate fluctuations reduced
earnings by 9 cents a share during the quarter.  P&G’s earnings call lasted only 50 minutes, and Lafley
didn’t participate. He will now speak only during annual
earnings calls and at major investor presentations as part of
P&G’s emphasis on productivity and annual results instead of
quarterly figures, the company said earlier this week.  Lafley Return  “It was a very efficient call,” said Dibadj, who has an
outperform rating on the shares, the equivalent of a buy.  Lafley, 66, replaced Bob McDonald after P&G lost customers
in key categories such as detergents and beauty. His first
tenure, from 2000 to 2009, included the $57 billion  acquisition 
of Gillette Co. and prominent new product introductions such as
the Swiffer cleaner.  Yet P&G is now seeing the benefit of strategies McDonald
implemented, including a focus on the U.S. and a $10 billion
cost-cutting program that’s freeing up more funds for marketing
and research, Michael Steib, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG in New York, said in a telephone interview Oct. 23. P&G’s
challenge under Lafley will be expanding its lineup of lower-priced products such as its Gillette Mach3 razors, he said.  “The consumer is wanting to shop for value products, and
that’s unlikely to change anytime soon,” Steib said. He rates
the shares neutral, the equivalent of a hold.  Global Growth  P&G and other consumer-products makers are coping with
cautious consumers worldwide. The  International Monetary Fund 
cut its forecast for global growth for this year and next on
Oct. 8, citing weakness in  emerging markets .  “You’ve got a lot of companies who are now fighting over
slightly slower growth,” John Faucher, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in an Oct. 21 telephone interview. Faucher,
based in New York, rates P&G shares overweight, the equivalent
of a buy.  In the U.S., leading retailers including Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. and Target Corp. have cut inventory levels as shoppers
restrain spending.  Consumer confidence  fell to an eight-month
low in the week ended Oct. 20 as concern mounted that continued
budget disputes and this month’s government shutdown will hurt
the  U.S. economy , according to the  Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index (COMFCOMF)  released last week.  Industry Results  Other consumer-products companies have posted mixed results
this week.  Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer-products
maker, yesterday reported the slowest quarterly sales growth in
four years amid waning demand in emerging markets and increased
competition in the U.S. and  Europe . So-called underlying sales
at the Dove soap and Breyers ice cream maker rose 3.2 percent in
the third quarter, compared with 5 percent growth in the first
half of the year. The median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 3.3 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman said Unilever came
under “enormous competitive attacks” in categories like
shampoos.  Revenue also trailed analysts’  estimates  at  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL) , hurt by foreign currency fluctuations. Third-quarter sales rose 1.5 percent to $4.4 billion, trailing
analysts’ $4.46 billion the average estimate. The New York-based
maker of Hill’s pet food posted adjusted profit of 73 cents a
share, matching analysts’ estimates. Colgate maintained its
forecast for per-share earnings growth of 4.5 percent to 5.5
percent this year.  Kimberly-Clark Corp. posted profit that topped analysts’
estimates on strong international growth. Third-quarter profit
excluding some items was $1.44 a share, the Dallas-based maker
of Huggies diapers and Kleenex tissues said Oct. 22. Analysts
estimated $1.40, on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  