-- HP Sues Optical Disk Drive Makers on Price-Fixing Claims
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/hp-sues-optical-disk-drive-makers-on-price-fixing-claims.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
biggest maker of personal computers, sued optical disk drive
companies claiming they conspired to fix prices on billions of
dollars in products it bought from 2004 to 2010.  Hewlett-Packard, in two complaints filed in federal court
in Houston, said  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  were among the companies that shared
confidential information and rigged bids to “fix, raise,
stabilize and maintain prices” for the disk drives.  The defendants, according to the complaints, jointly
controlled 90 percent of the market for optical disk drives,
which are used to store and replay media and data on CDs, DVDs
and Blu-ray devices. Hewlett-Packard’s  supply chain  procurement
operation is based in Houston.  “Many of the defendants and their co-conspirators have a
long history of collusion; have been involved in antitrust
investigations into other technology-related products; and/or
have admitted to participating in anticompetitive cartels
involving technology-related or other products,” according to
one of the complaints filed Oct. 24.  Hewlett-Packard’s lawsuits follow a multiyear probe by the
U.S. Justice Department into price-fixing and bid-rigging claims
in the industry. Hitachi-LG Data Storage Inc. and four of its
executives have pleaded guilty to antitrust violations in the
optical disk drive industry, according to the complaint.  Guilty Plea  “The guilty plea that HLDS Inc. entered and press releases
that the DOJ issued have specifically identified HP as a victim
of price-fixing,” Hewlett-Packard said in one of the
complaints.  Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , is seeking
unspecified triple damages and injunctive relief under federal
antitrust laws and two California statutes aimed an
uncompetitive behavior.  John Taylor , an LG spokesman, declined to comment, citing
company policy regarding legal matters. Atsushi Ido, a Toshiba
spokesman in Tokyo, and Nam Kiyung, a spokesman for Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails after
regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on Hewlett-Packard’s claims.  The cases are Hewlett-Packard Co. v. LG Electronics Inc.,
4:13-03134, and Hewlett-Packard Co. v. Toshiba Corp., 4:13-cv-03136, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at  laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  