-- Paul Reichmann, Olympia & York Family’s ‘Idea Man,’ Dies
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-10-25T20:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/paul-reichmann-olympia-york-family-s-idea-man-dies.html
Paul Reichmann, the brother who led
Olympia & York Developments Ltd. in building  London ’s Canary
Wharf and New York’s World Financial Center, has died. He was
83.  He died today, according to a spokeswoman for ReichmannHauer
Capital Partners, a Toronto-based investment firm co-run by
Reichmann’s nephew,  Philip Reichmann . She declined to give her
name and provided no further details.  With brothers Albert and Ralph, Reichmann built Olympia &
York into “the greatest property development company in Western
history,” according to Anthony Bianco, a former Businessweek
writer who wrote a book on the family. Before its 1992
bankruptcy filing, the company was the largest private owner of
commercial property in New York City.  Forbes magazine calculated the brothers’ cumulative net
worth at $9.2 billion at its height in 1988, making them among
the world’s richest people.  Part of a tightly knit Hungarian-Jewish family that fled
Europe in the 1930s for North Africa, then  Canada , the three
brothers began building in Toronto and made a large, smart bet
on New York when Manhattan real-estate prices bottomed in the
late 1970s.  As large as the company grew, it remained a publicity-averse family operation, with no outsider owning shares or
serving on the board. In line with the family’s orthodox
Judaism, Olympia & York closed its offices and work sites for
the Jewish Sabbath. The family was known for its philanthropy,
focusing on Jewish causes, hospitals and schools.  ‘Deal-Doer’  Though Albert Reichmann held the title of president “in
deference to his status as the eldest” brother, Bianco wrote,
Paul Reichmann was Olympia & York’s “idea man and deal-doer.”
He also provided the family’s rare interviews and public
statements. (Ralph Reichmann remained at the helm of the
Toronto-based tile-import business that started the family’s
work in North America.)  “My ambitions grew in terms of the size and scope and
creativity of the projects,” Reichmann said, according to
Bianco. “There is an enjoyment in being able to do something
that others consider difficult if not impossible.”  The 8-million-square-foot World Financial Center in Lower
Manhattan, designed by Cesar Pelli, was the brothers’ grandest
success.  9/11 Damage  Built in the 1980s on landfill excavated for the World
Trade Center, the financial center’s four towers are home to
companies including RBC Capital Markets LLC, American Express
Co. and Merrill Lynch, now the wealth-management division of
 Bank of America Corp.  One tower and the 3-story, glassed-in
Winter Garden public atrium were damaged in the Sept. 11, 2001,
terror attacks.  Other Olympia & York-built skyscrapers include Exchange
Place in  Boston , headquarters of the Boston Consulting Group;
First Canadian Place in Toronto, at 72 stories the tallest
building in Canada and home to the Bank of Montreal; and the
Olympia Centre in  Chicago , a mixed-use building with Neiman
Marcus on the ground floor.  In 1987, Olympia & York took over plans for  Canary Wharf , a
huge financial district on the River Thames. In three stages,
over the course of a decade, it was to build 26 buildings with
10 million square feet of office space, plus stores and
restaurants, parking and transit for an expected 50,000 workers.
The projected price tag was $7 billion.  Breaking Point  Though a vibrant mini-city today -- home to the global
headquarters of Barclays Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc and the
London offices of Credit Suisse Group AG and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  --
Canary Wharf stretched the Reichmann’s finances to a breaking
point, as loans backed largely by their New York City real-estate holdings came due more quickly than paying tenants were
put in place. In May 1992 the Reichmanns filed for protection
from creditors in Canada, the U.S. and the U.K.  The U.S. arm of Olympia & York emerged from bankruptcy in
1996 as World Financial Properties Inc., controlled by
Brookfield Properties Corp. of Toronto, today’s  Brookfield
Office Properties Inc. (BPO) , with the Reichmanns no longer involved.
Brookfield, based in New York, is in the process of renaming the
World Financial Center as Brookfield Place.  Unlike his brothers, Paul Reichmann returned to London’s
riverside for a final act. With a consortium including  Prince
Alwaleed bin Talal  of Saudi Arabia, he formed a group, Canary
Wharf Group Plc, that bought Canary Wharf in 1995 and took it
public in 1999 on the London Stock Exchange. He stepped down as
a director in 2004.  Songbird Estates Plc (SBD)  now has a 69 percent
stake in Canary Wharf Group.  Vienna, Paris  Paul Reichmann was born on Sept. 27, 1930, in Vienna, the
fifth of six children of Samuel Reichmann and the former Renee
Gestetner. The couple had left their native Hungary in 1928 for
 Austria , where Samuel became a successful distributor of fresh
eggs.  With their young children they fled first to Paris when
 Germany  annexed Austria in 1938, then to  Morocco , where Samuel
made a “second fortune” as a currency dealer, Bianco wrote.  Dozens of Reichmann relatives would be killed at the
Auschwitz death camp. From Tangier, occupied by Spain during the
war, Reichmann’s mother and only sister, Eva, persuaded the
Franco government to issue protective visas to Jews in Nazi-occupied Budapest, “helping to save several thousand lives,”
Bianco wrote.  In 1949, Paul Reichmann devoted himself to studying the
Talmud in the U.K. and  Israel . In 1952 in Israel he met Lea
Feldman, who later became his wife.  Best Years  From 1953 to 1956, he worked in Casablanca as the unpaid
educational director of Ozar Hatorah, an American-sponsored
group that runs schools for Orthodox Jews, according to Bianco.
Reichmann later called that time “the most interesting years of
my life.”  With his wife, he arrived in 1957 in Toronto, where he
turned the import business started by his brothers, Olympia
Floor & Wall Tile, into a developer of real estate. The 1964
merger of that business with Albert Reichmann’s York Factory
Developments Ltd. created Olympia & York.  Its first splash was Flemingdon Park, a 22,000-resident
community of homes and office buildings in Toronto’s North York
neighborhood. The Reichmanns stepped in when the original
developer, William Zeckendorf’s Webb & Knapp, ran out of money
partway through the project.  Mega-Deal  Olympia & York arrived in the U.S. with a 1977 mega-deal,
purchasing eight Manhattan office buildings, with about 10
million square feet of rentable space, from National Kinney
Corp.’s Uris unit. The price was about $330 million, or roughly
$33 per square foot. By the late 1980s, according to Bianco, the
properties were worth $3 billion.  As their wealth grew into the billions, the brothers
diversified, buying majority stakes in companies including
energy producer Gulf Canada Resources Ltd. and newsprint maker
Abitibi-Price Inc., today part of Montreal-based  Resolute Forest
Products Inc. (RFP)   Paul and Lea Reichmann had five children, according to
Bianco -- daughters Vivian, Rachel and Libby, and sons Barry and
Henry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  