-- Pet Foods Face First-Ever FDA Rule 6 Years After Dog Treat Scare
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-10-25T15:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/pet-foods-face-first-ever-fda-rule-6-years-after-dog-treat-scare.html
Pet and animal foods would for the
first time have to meet uniform manufacturing, processing and
packaging standards under  rules proposed  by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration.  While the FDA typically gets involved in investigating
contaminated pet food that is already on the market, the new
 regulations  are designed to prevent disease-causing bacteria and
dangerous chemicals before the poisoning occurs. The rules are
part of implementation of the Food Safety Modernization Act of
2011, the biggest change to food oversight since 1938.  The safety of pet food has been in the spotlight in part
because of imported jerky treats imported from  China  that have
sickened 3,600 dogs and 10 cats, and killed 580, in the U.S.
since 2007. The FDA has been unable to pinpoint the cause of the
illness. The new rule, added to two others related to humans
proposed this year, would ensure that foods brought into the
U.S. from abroad meet FDA safety standards.  “Unlike safeguards already in place to protect human
foods, there are currently no regulations governing the safe
production of most animal foods,” said Daniel McChesney,
director of the FDA’s office of surveillance and compliance at
the Center for Veterinary Medicine. “There is no type of hazard
analysis. This rule would change all that.”  Humans can get sick when they encounter contaminated food
they are giving to their pets or livestock, the FDA said. When
pet food tainted with bacteria is placed on kitchen counters,
the germs can spread to meals prepared for the family. When an
animal eats feed contaminated by a chemical, the meat or milk
that comes from the animal can pass along the contaminant to
people who consume it.  The proposed rule would  govern  manufacturing, processing,
packing and holding of animal food and establish good
manufacturing process for each step of production. It will also
ensure that animals get enough nutrients from their regular
food, an important issue since they generally are fed from a
single source.  The proposal is subject to a 120-day comment period before
taking effect, and may change based on the public input.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  