-- Qualcomm, Jack Daniel’s, Who Dat?: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/qualcomm-jack-daniel-s-who-dat-intellectual-property.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the most cash-rich
semiconductor company, was told by a federal jury to pay
$173 million to money-losing  ParkerVision Inc. (PRKR)  for infringing
wireless-network patents used in smartphones.  While it’s the largest patent jury verdict of 2013, and
ninth-largest of all U.S. jury awards this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, it’s less than half the $432 million
in royalties ParkerVision was seeking.  The federal jury in Orlando, Florida, rejected
ParkerVision’s argument that the infringement was intentional.
Had the jury found willfulness, it would have allowed U.S.
District Judge Roy Dalton, who is presiding over the case, to
increase the award by as much as three times the amount set by
the jury.  “We are of course disappointed by the award of damages,”
said Christine Trimble, a spokeswoman for San Diego-based
Qualcomm. “We will direct our efforts toward addressing the
post-trial process and preparing our appeal.”  ParkerVision said it showed the technology to Qualcomm in
the late 1990s during failed licensing negotiations, then
discovered in 2011 that Qualcomm had incorporated the inventions
in its smartphone chips. Qualcomm owns the most widely used
technology standard in mobile phones with Internet access and
its chips are used in phones by Apple Inc. and Samsung
Electronics Co.  “This is a significant win for ParkerVision, proving that
our technologies have a meaningful place in the wireless
market,” Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Parker said.  The biggest maker of chips for mobile phones, Qualcomm gets
the bulk of its profit from patent licensing and reported
$6.24 billion in revenue in the second quarter.  ParkerVision, based in Jacksonville,  Florida , lost
$13.6 million in the first half of this year and had no revenue.
Investors were counting on a big payout with Qualcomm, and sent
ParkerVision shares up 61 percent after the verdict in the first
phase of the trial, when the jury said Qualcomm infringed the
patents and rejected arguments they were invalid.  Qualcomm argued that the inventions were worth little
because they had never been adopted by the industry, and said
ParkerVision wasn’t getting much cash from a technology
agreement with Via Telecom Inc. It said the more appropriate
figure was $17.8 million.  The case is ParkerVision v. Qualcomm, 11-cv-719, U.S.
District Court for the Middle District of Florida (Orlando).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Brown-Forman’s Jack Daniel’s Sues Popcorn Sutton Over Packaging  Brown-Forman Corp. (BF/B) ’s Jack Daniel’s Properties unit, the
distributor of Jack Daniel’s whiskey, sued a Tennessee
distillery for trademark infringement.  The lawsuit is related to new packaging for a whiskey
produced by  Popcorn Sutton Distilling LLC  of Nashville,
Tennessee. The company is named for  Marvin “Popcorn” Sutton ,
who committed suicide in 2009 rather than report to federal
prison to serve a sentence for his conviction for offenses
related to illegal production of home-made whiskey, commonly
known as moonshine.  According to the complaint filed Oct. 18 in federal court
in Nashville, initially the Popcorn Sutton product was sold in a
transparent Mason jar to honor the containers in which moonshine
was often sold.  In 2012, Popcorn Sutton changed the packaging and began
selling it in a square bottle with angled shoulders, beveled
corners and a white-on-black label. Jack Daniel’s, which
produces the world’s best-selling whiskey, says the change
infringed its trade dress, and causes the public confusion.  Brown-Forman, based in Louisville,  Kentucky , claims the
packaging was chosen as a way to hitchhike on the fame of Jack
Daniel’s, a whiskey that has been made since 1866.  The company asked the court to order Popcorn Sutton to quit
packaging its product in a manner that imitates the Jack
Daniel’s trade dress, and for the destruction of all allegedly
infringing promotional materials.  The company also seeks awards of profits from the sale of
Popcorn Sutton products sold in the packaging, together with
money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Popcorn Sutton didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment on the suit.  The case is Jack Daniel’s Properties Inc. v. J&M Concepts
LLC, 13-cv-01156, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
 Tennessee  (Nashville).  ‘Who Dat?’ Trademark Holder Sues French Quarter Gift Shops  The holder of a trademark associated with the  New Orleans
Saints  National Football League team sued three gift shops in
New Orleans’ French Quarter for trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed Oct. 23 in federal court
in New Orleans, Who dat? Inc. says its “Who Dat?” trademark is
being used without authorization on products sold in the gift
shops. The company said it sent cease-and-desist notices to all
of the defendants, to no avail.  Earlier, Who Dat? sued the National Football League,
seeking clarification of the ownership of the mark. The phrase
became part of  a chant used by fans  of the Saints, particularly
during the drive to the 2009 Super Bowl championship.  The company objected to the Saints’ attempt to register the
phrase as a state trademark and the league’s and the team’s
opposition to its application for a federal trademark. The lack
of clarity over the ownership of the mark limited Who Dat?’s
opportunity to license it, according to the company’s complaint.  That suit was settled in 2012 with the league and Who Dat?
agreeing to dismiss all claims against each other. They said in
a joint statement they would sell co-branded merchandise bearing
both the marks and logos of the Saints and the phrase “Who
Dat?”  The earlier case is Who Dat? Inc. v. NFL Properties LLC,
10-cv-02296, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans). The case against the gift shops is Who Dat? Inc.
v. Motwani, 13-cv-06235, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Rock-Formation Pushover Video Removed From YouTube Website  The  video  of a Boy Scout leader  pushing over a rock
formation  in  Utah ’s Goblin Valley State Park was taken down from
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing site following a copyright
claim by the man who shot it, the Salt Lake Tribune  reported .  After Dave Hall posted the video on his page on Facebook
Inc.’s social-media site, the newspaper said it uploaded it to
YouTube in the wake of concerns about the destruction of the
rock formation.  Before the video was taken down, it was viewed more than
4.5 million times on YouTube and re-uploaded by others to
multiple other sites, according to the Salt Lake Tribune.  Both Hall and the man who pushed over the rock formation
have been  removed  as scout leaders and the incident is being
investigated by state park officials, the newspaper reported.  Artist’s Suit Against Sega, EA Properly Dismissed, Court Says  A  California  artist’s copyright lawsuit against Sammy
Corp.’s Sega of America unit and  Electronics Arts Inc. (EA)  was
properly dismissed by a lower court, a federal appeals court
said Oct. 23.  Kenneth W. Penders II of Grenada Hills, California, sued
the two game companies in federal court in Los Angeles in 2011.
He claimed his work on the Sonic the Hedgehog character was
insufficiently compensated and that he had rights to his work
because he was an independent contractor.  In February 2012, that court dismissed the case. Penders
then filed his appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals in San
Francisco.  The appeals court said the lower court properly applied
copyright law’s first-to-file rule and dismissed the case. Each
party was ordered to pay its own costs.  The appeal is Penders v. Sega of America Inc., 12-55544,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The lower court
case is Penders v. Sega of American Inc., 2:11-cv-08173, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  