-- Ray Davis to Follow Nolan Ryan as Controlling Owner of Rangers
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-10-25T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/ray-davis-to-follow-nolan-ryan-as-controlling-owner-of-rangers.html
Ray Davis, a member of the Forbes
400 Richest Americans, will become controlling owner of the
 Texas Rangers  when Hall of Fame pitcher  Nolan Ryan  retires,
Major League Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  said.  The elevation of Davis, a co-owner of the team, will happen
at the MLB owners meeting Nov. 14 in Orlando, Florida, Selig
told reporters last night before Game 2 of the  World Series  at
Fenway Park in  Boston .  “It hasn’t been quite determined, but he will be the
control person,” Selig said, according to the  Associated Press .  Ryan, who has been chief executive officer of the Rangers
for six years, will leave at the end of the month and sell his
stake to co-chairmen Davis and Bill Simpson.  Davis, chairman and chief executive officer of Avatar
Investments LP, has a net worth of $1.9 billion that ranks him
296th on the list of the richest Americans, Forbes said in
September. He moved up from 311 in 2012.  He made his fortune buying small pipelines with Kelcy Warren and consolidating the holdings into a network. Six years
after buying the gas pipeline company Cornerstone Natural Gas
Inc. in 1993, the pair flipped the pipelines to El Paso Natural
Gas Co. and used the proceeds to create the natural gas
retailer, distributor and pipeline company Energy Transfer
Equity.  Davis, who resigned as co-chief executive officer in 2007
and left the board in February, still owns 6 percent of the
company.  He and former XTO Energy Inc. founder Simpson led a group
of investors who backed Ryan to buy the Rangers for $593 million
in 2010. At the time, it was the second-highest price paid for a
major league team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  