-- Rayonier Drops on Weakening Specialty-Pulp Price Outlook
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-10-25T16:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/rayonier-drops-on-weakening-specialty-pulp-price-outlook.html
Rayonier Inc. (RYN) , a maker of specialty
wood pulp used in cigarette filters, fell the most in almost
five years after a company executive said prices for the
commodity may decline amid plentiful global supplies.  Rayonier  dropped  15 percent to $46.67 at 12:18 p.m. in New
York. The Jacksonville, Florida-based company’s shares earlier
fell 16 percent, the biggest intraday decline since Dec. 1,
2008.  Weaker prices in Europe for specialty-pulp products also
used in the automotive and construction industries are adding to
concern about potential excess supply, Jack Kriesel, a senior
vice president of Rayonier’s performance-fibers business, said
yesterday on a conference call.  “Although these are not currently large markets for
Rayonier, we see indications that competitors who supply those
markets are trying to place volumes in the higher value sales
specialties markets,” Kriesel said.  Some producers of generic pulp are trying to sell their
product into specialty markets, depressing prices, said Paul Quinn, a Vancouver-based analyst at RBC Capital Markets.  “With already significant declines in commodity pulp
prices, those producers are looking to gain by selling into the
lucrative specialty pulp market,” Quinn said today by
telephone.  Rayonier, which also has investments in U.S. timberland and
real-estate development, is now conducting annual price
negotiations with its customers, he said.  ‘Price Pressure’  “There is no question that downward price pressure
exists,” Kriesel said.  Third-quarter net income fell to $57.4 million, or 44 cents
a share, from $80.6 million, or 62 cents, a year earlier,
Rayonier said yesterday in a statement. Per-share profit trailed
the 46-cent average of six analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We outlined our outlook on the performance-fibers market
in great length yesterday on our earnings call,” Russell Schweiss, a Rayonier spokesman, said today by e-mail. “We stand
by those statements and have nothing further to add at this
point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  