-- RBNZ’s Wheeler Signals Currency May Delay Rate Rise, Herald Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-10-25T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/rbnz-s-wheeler-signals-currency-may-delay-rate-rise-herald-says.html
New Zealand ’s central bank may have
scope to delay interest-rate increases as the nation’s currency
surges, Governor Graeme Wheeler told the New Zealand Herald.  “The high exchange rate will diminish inflation pressures
and that may mean, in terms of our our inflation objectives,
that it gives us some degree of freedom in respect of the timing
of future official-cash-rate increases,” Wheeler told the
newspaper in an interview published today.  New Zealand’s dollar rose to a five-month high on Oct. 22,
reaching levels about 4 percent higher than the central bank
assumed in September, when it projected  interest rates  will
start rising in the first half of next year. Economists at
Westpac Banking Corp. this week said the RBNZ may delay a rate
rise to April given the “uncomfortably high”  exchange rate .
They previously projected an increase in March.  Wheeler will hold the official cash rate at a record-low
2.5 percent on Oct. 31, according to all 15 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The currency’s gains reflect New Zealand’s strong terms of
trade, its economic growth outlook and expectations of higher
interest rates when borrowing costs in much of the world are 1
percent or less, Wheeler told the Herald.  The local currency was also buoyed by a Federal Reserve
decision not to begin removing stimulus in September as markets
had expected, he said.  Any U.S. dollar gains “would help us in terms of being
able to tighten monetary policy and raise interest rates in 2014
with the background of a weaker  New Zealand dollar , so that when
we tightened we would not be facing the same exchange-rate
pressures and drive the New Zealand dollar even higher,”
Wheeler was quoted as saying.  He also said it’s “very hard to change the strength” of
currency flows with intervention, the Herald reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  