-- Republicans Dig In to Press for Tax Revamp After Impasse
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-10-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/republicans-dig-in-to-press-for-tax-revamp-after-impasse.html
Republicans trying to drive a revamp
of the U.S. tax code are determined to advance a measure before
the end of the year even with the broken politics displayed in
the fiscal impasse.  Bruised by a monthlong fight that included a partial
government shutdown,  House Republicans  led by  Dave Camp  of
 Michigan  plan to push a bill though his Ways and Means Committee
this year while senior leaders tussle with Democrats on other
budget and deficit issues.  They’re fighting the clock, too, with the House scheduled
to be in session for just five more weeks, compressing the time
to release a plan and set a vote.  “Obviously, there’s a lot of distractions in this town,”
Representative Pat Tiberi, an  Ohio Republican  and a senior Ways
and Means member, said in an interview this week. “Nothing
comes easy. But that’s the goal and the chairman’s been pretty
clear on it. He continues to push that ball up the hill.”  Camp is pledging to make the most significant changes to
the U.S.  tax code  since 1986. To succeed, he must overcome the
internal  fault lines  among House Republicans exposed during the
shutdown and persuade colleagues to move ahead amid Democrats’
insistence that any revisions generate additional  revenue .  After struggling to move legislation to end the shutdown
and prevent a lapse in borrowing authority, House Republicans
will now try to act on an issue that lacks a firm deadline. Any
proposal that shuffles the tax burden will require some
companies and individuals to pay more than they do now.  With the 16-day shutdown over and the risk of a U.S.
default temporarily set aside, corporate tax lobbyists are
watching Camp and his Senate counterpart,  Max Baucus , to see
what they do with tax legislation.  Corporate Rate  Camp said he plans to lower the top corporate rate to 25
percent from 35 percent and reduce the top individual rate to 25
percent from 39.6 percent. He wants do that without shifting the
tax burden across  income  groups and without losing or gaining
federal revenue.  Both tax-panel chairmen have reaffirmed their intent to
propose major code changes. Baucus, a Montana Democrat, said he
will release “discussion drafts” this year.  Neither has said which tax breaks would shrink or vanish in
their plans. Once they do, they’ll identify the potential
opposition from industries and interest groups that don’t want
to lose their tax breaks.  “If history is any guide,” Tiberi said, “I think there
are a lot of people who get their hair on fire because it’s
either not what they expected or maybe it was what they expected
and now they’re concerned about it.”  Top Priority  Camp is trying to act on one of his party’s top priorities
just after the shutdown, during which Republican hard-liners
pressured leaders into demanding significant changes to the 2010
health-care law.  A  poll this month  by The Washington Post and ABC News found
that Americans disapproved of how Republicans are handling
 federal budget  negotiations by a 77 percent to 21 percent margin
and that 63 percent have an unfavorable view of the  Republican
Party .  Ways and Means Republicans were more likely than the party
as a whole to support the final agreement Oct. 16, in which
Republicans won almost no concessions in exchange for ending the
shutdown and suspending the debt limit.  Among House Republicans, 62.3 percent  voted against  the
agreement. Among Ways and Means Republicans, it was the reverse,
with 62.5 percent voting for the agreement. All House Democrats
voted for the agreement.  Camp said he’s been meeting with House Republicans who
aren’t on the committee, trying to build support for his
approach.  ‘Long Term’  “This is obviously a long-term project,” he told
reporters. “This is not some  budget crisis , so there’s been a
lot of background and groundwork that’s been done and continues
to be done.”  Republicans want to simplify the tax code because of the
unpopularity of the status quo, said Representative Peter Roskam
of  Illinois , who is one of the party’s top vote counters.  “It’s an area where you can find some significant common
ground,” he told reporters. “People want to have something
positive to vote for, and  tax reform  will be very positive.”  Republicans need a plan that could lead to a bipartisan
bill that would win passage in the Democratic-controlled Senate
and be signed by President  Barack Obama , said Representative Tim Griffin, an Arkansas Republican. He pointed to the agreement
between Camp and Obama that corporate tax changes shouldn’t
generate additional revenue for the government.  “We all know that what we want in tax reform, we’re not
going to get 100 percent of it,” he said in an interview.
“We’ve got to start with what we agree on.”  Camp-Baucus Tour  Camp has repeatedly made a similar point and he has been
working closely with Baucus. The pair traveled across the
country earlier this year, visiting companies such as  3M Co. (MMM)  and
 Intel Corp. (INTC)   They’ve acknowledged that their disagreement over revenue
must be resolved without saying how they’ll do it.  Without a broad bipartisan budget agreement, the panel’s
work on  tax policy  probably won’t go anywhere, said
Representative Devin Nunes, a California Republican and senior
Ways and Means member.  “If we can have an agreement, then it makes tax reform
possible,” he said in an interview. “I just don’t know the
likelihood of us getting to the finish line if we don’t have a
big agreement. Have you ever seen a major piece of legislation
get done around this place without the leadership of the White
House?”  Raising Revenue  Representative  Sander Levin , the top Democrat on the Ways
and Means panel, said he’d like to see openness among
Republicans to raising revenue, particularly as a way to end the
across-the-board spending cuts known as sequestration.  “There are a couple lessons that should have been learned
and one is you have to do things in a bipartisan way, sooner or
later,” Levin told reporters. “And the sooner you do it, the
better.”  All 16 Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee sent Camp
a letter Oct. 23 calling for working in a “bipartisan manner”
on taxes. Camp organized bipartisan working groups earlier this
year. More recently, Republicans have been meeting alone to
discuss their plan.  Bipartisan budget negotiations start next week with a Dec.
13 deadline. Representative  Tom Price  of  Georgia , a Republican
on both Ways and Means and the budget negotiating team, said the
two issues will be linked “peripherally.”  If a budget agreement is reached that’s more than just
something minimal, he said, it would likely include a process
for tax-code changes.  Camp’s approach all along has been to have a bill prepared
if and when the politics create a chance for success.  “The strategy of having something ready that can be
accessed and moved into this broader debate about the long-term
fiscal, economic path that we’re going to be on, I think that’s
a good thing,” Griffin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  