-- Republican Negotiator Backs Revenue for U.S. Budget Deal
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-10-25T16:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/republican-negotiator-backs-revenue-for-u-s-budget-deal.html
Representative Tom Cole, one of the
chief Republican negotiators of a congressional budget deal,
said today that he supports raising revenue as part of talks
with Senate Democrats.  Cole, an Oklahoma Republican, said that curtailing tax
breaks such as the treatment of private equity managers’ carried
interest should be part of the negotiations. He also wants to
generate money from U.S. companies’ untaxed overseas profits
coupled with a revamp of the federal  tax code .  “The reality is, you’re going to have to have a deal
here,” Cole said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend. “And a
deal means everybody gives something up.”  Cole, a close ally of House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio ,
offered an insight into how negotiations could unfold: Any
willingness on the Republicans’ part to raise revenues would
have to be accompanied by Democrats’ willingness to cut
entitlement program spending. Republicans, however, won’t insist
on curbing President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law as a
condition to keeping the government open.  The outline of the negotiations getting started next week
depends on “how big a deal the Democrats want to do and whether
or not we want to cut, or connect this with a larger tax reform
issue,” Cole said.  Deal Possible  Cole expressed optimism that the congressional budget
conferees would be able to reach an agreement by the deadline of
Dec. 13 set in legislation that ended a 16-day partial shutdown
of the government last week. The conferees were appointed to try
to avoid another political collision by ironing out spending
differences for 2014 and beyond.  The deal to end the shutdown and avert the threat of a U.S.
default followed weeks of stalemate that began when  House
Republicans  tried to force a delay in the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, Obama’s signature health-care law offering
insurance to millions of Americans lacking coverage.  The accord sets a Dec. 13 date for completing the budget
talks. It finances government operations through Jan. 15 and
suspends the nation’s debt limit through Feb. 7.  Cole said negotiators have to bridge a $90 billion
difference in discretionary spending and undo some of the
automatic across-the-board budget cuts, known as sequestration,
that are scheduled to start in January.  Facing Cuts  “Both sides would like to deal with the sequester,” Cole
said. “And we’re willing to put more revenue on the table to do
that, and we would like to do it with entitlement savings.”  Included in what Cole calls a Republican “pro-growth
revenue” stance are accelerated oil and gas exploration on
federal lands and offshore lease and one-time timber sales.  Cole also indicated that the place to start with long-term
cuts to entitlement programs is Obama’s own budget proposal.
Some of that overlaps with a budgetary blueprint written by
Wisconsin Republican Paul Ryan, chairman of the House Budget
Committee and his party’s 2012 vice presidential nominee.  These include the chained  Consumer Price Index , an
alternative inflation yardstick, as a benchmark for Social
Security cost-of-living increases, requiring higher-income
Medicare beneficiaries to pay more and slowing Medicare growth
by cutting payments to drug companies and health-care providers.  “To me, getting a handle on the entitlement side long term
for budget stability is the most important,” Cole said. The
president’s proposals are “a good starting point, and the first
time,” he said, that he’s put them “on the table.”  “You know, he did not do that his first four years, so I
give him a lot of credit,” Cole said. “And he caught a lot of
flak from his left wing. I tell my Republican friends, look,
look how much outrage he got from some of his core
constituents.”  Cole also predicted that House Republicans won’t insist on
curbing the health-care law as a condition to keeping the
government open. Instead, he said, Republicans may aim to find
areas of agreement with Democrats such as eliminating the
medical device tax that helps finance the program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  