-- Ryanair Cuts Bag Fees as O’Leary Extends Customer-Service Review
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-10-25T10:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/ryanair-cuts-bag-fees-as-o-leary-extends-customer-service-review.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  plans to slash
luggage fees and allow a second carry-on bag as  Europe ’s biggest
discount carrier adjusts practices that had become synonymous
with the airline’s notoriously abrasive style.  Fees for bags not checked in online will fall by half to 30
euros ($41.45) at the bag-drop desk and 50 euros at the boarding
gate from 60 euros starting Jan. 5, the Dublin-based company
said in a statement today. The airline will also trim the amount
customers pay to have boarding cards re-issued to 15 euros from
70 euros if they have already checked in online.  “These are the first in a series of customer service
improvements which Ryanair is actively working on to make our
low fare services easier to access,” Caroline Green, the
director of  customer service , said in the statement.  The airline is reviewing an approach to flying that’s
delivered Europe’s lowest air fares at the expense of only
rudimentary perks. With an eye to the digital marketing success
of rival  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Ryanair last month embraced Twitter, now
offers its mobile-phone app for free and is planning a range of
enhancements to its web site to make it more user-friendly.  Onboard, Ryanair said it will begin operating quiet flights
before 8 a.m. and after 9 p.m. when announcements will be kept
to a minimum and lights will be dimmed. The carrier also said it
will allow passengers to bring a second hand carry-on -- a small
purse or shopping bag -- from Dec. 1.  “We are actively listening and responding to our
customers,” Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in the
statement. The executive will field questions for a second time
on Twitter today. More than 1,500 questions were submitted
during O’Leary’s first exchange with customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  