-- Sandy’s Left-Behinds Brace for 2nd Year Without Relief
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-10-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/sandy-s-left-behinds-brace-for-2nd-year-without-relief.html
 For more than a half-century,
Whitey’s Landing on  New Jersey ’s Barnegat Bay has served boaters
pulling up for engine repairs or clams from the bait freezer.
This season, only one-third of its 30 moorings were leased, and
fuel sales were down as much as 80 percent from years past.  Co-owner Deb Thompson, 74, dreams of retiring -- provided
anyone would want to buy docks cut off from the water by a
sandbar.  One year after  Hurricane Sandy  devastated coastal New
Jersey,  New York  and Connecticut, the broad signs of recovery
are undeniable. The  Federal Emergency Management Agency  has
approved 182,000 individual and household applications for
assistance in the three states, totaling $1.4 billion. It has
made $3.1 billion available to repair roads, bridges and other
publicly owned property after one of the costliest natural
disasters in U.S. history. President  Barack Obama  signed a bill
allocating $50.5 billion in disaster aid.  Like Thompson, thousands of residents and businesses are
awaiting relief. New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  told a
Little Ferry audience on Oct. 22 only that “needs will be
addressed.” His counterpart in New York,  Andrew Cuomo , said
affected residents will emerge stronger.  ‘Sounds Incongruous’  “When you look back at the year, I really do believe that
we’re going to be better for it,” Cuomo, a 55-year-old
Democrat, told reporters on Oct. 23 in  Albany . “I think if you
asked people individually, it sounds incongruous, but those
communities will be the better for it. There’s a cohesion among
them, there’s a physical improvement in rebuilding.”  The slow pace of aid distribution forced 42 Shore towns,
from the time Sandy struck Oct. 29 through August, to sell
almost $400 million of short-term debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Their one-year  interest rates  were close to the
highest since 2011. For a similar period in 2011-2012, Shore
towns issued $225 million.  In New York, as much as one-fifth of the 33,500 people
living in  Long Beach , the state’s second-wealthiest city by
median income, left and haven’t returned. Volunteers who gutted
850 homes in Ortley Beach, New Jersey, fret about protective
dunes yet to be rebuilt. Connecticut opened four centers
yesterday where homeowners may apply for $30 million in aid.  Too Late  About $700 million of aid in New York will go toward
building flood walls, levies and improving electrical systems at
two  Long Island  water-sewage treatment plants that serve more
than 620,000 residents. The Bay Park Sewage Treatment Plant in
Nassau County, the larger of the two, was swamped by more than 9
feet of water during Sandy, County Executive Ed Mangano said on
a conference call yesterday with Cuomo.  Kathy Luethold, 62, and her husband, Ray Gorman, 60, are
without a furnace in Bayville, New Jersey. Gorman, retired on
disability after a work accident crushed his cervical spine 10
years ago, is fielding estimates from ventilation contractors,
though he doesn’t know how much he can pay. They delayed major
work on their home on Barnegat Bay following instructions from
FEMA, only to learn from neighbors on Oct. 16 they had missed
the cut for grants.  “To find out from neighbors that the programs are closed,
and it’s over and it’s done, and we were never notified?” said
Gorman, seated in a living room with donated furniture. “And
winter’s around the corner? We don’t have any heat.”  Loan Officer  Next door at Whitey’s Landing, Thompson recounted her own
fruitless calls to local, state and federal agencies to dredge
the storm-built sandbar, where boaters risk running aground or
worse, trashing their drives.  Beyond the sand build-up, Thompson and her husband, Larry,
bear expenses related to debris removal, abandoned craft,
equipment replacement and repairs to the business his family
started in 1960. On a deadline to agree to a lien stipulation
for $125,000 in disaster borrowing, Thompson said she scuttled
months of negotiations with a two-word answer to the federal
loan officer: “Shove it.”  “We don’t have a mortgage -- this is free and clear,”
Thompson said in an interview Oct. 17. “I’m not going to be
tied to them on my deed for another 30 years.”  ‘Nothing Left’  This season, Whitey’s filled its 2,000-gallon (7,576-liter)
boating-fuel tank just once, rather than the typical four or
five times. Next year may spell ruin.  “I don’t know what we’re going to do,” Thompson said.
“There’s nothing left. We’ve just drained everything. My
husband lost 50 years of his life to this place.”  Christie, a 51-year-old Republican whose post-Sandy
performance drove his record approval in public-opinion polls,
is heading to the Nov. 5 election with an almost 30-point lead
over his opponent, Democrat Barbara Buono, a state senator from
Metuchen.  Democrats, particularly Buono, have said the Christie
administration hasn’t been responsive enough to the needs of
Sandy survivors. Buono’s campaign has run Web videos profiling
residents still recovering.  The legislature, which is controlled by Democrats, held
four hearings on Sandy recovery efforts, including one this week
in Toms River.  “The message from the testimony we have received is
clear,” Assembly member Grace Spencer, a Democrat, said in a
statement. “Sandy rebuilding is slow, almost at a standstill
for many across the state.”  Not Forgotten  Christie says that no one said everything would be rebuilt
in one year. In Little Ferry this week, he pledged to allocate
$57 million for homeowner expenses such as mortgage payments,
utilities and replacement furniture.  “I said right from the beginning this was an 18-to-24-month project, and it’s proven to be right,” he said.  The delays, he said, were due to the storm’s severity and
bureaucracy. Sandy damaged or destroyed 346,000 homes in New
Jersey, according to Christie’s office.  “People have ongoing needs that need to be addressed and
that will be addressed,” he said. “We’re going to make sure
that that happens because the folks who suffered the most are
not going to be forgotten -- not by me, at least. I can
guarantee you that.”  Home Buyouts  Along New Jersey’s 126-mile (203-kilometer) Atlantic coast,
the hardest-hit neighborhoods are a hodgepodge: vinyl-sided Cape
Cods and ranches raised to flood-zone standards, lopsided
cottages awaiting demolition, restored faux Victorians alongside
empty lots.  “We’re getting a lot of complaints: ‘My home needs work
and I don’t have money and I’m not happy about it,’” Debbi
Winogracki, a spokeswoman for Toms River, a township with a
section on the hardest-hit barrier island, said by telephone on
Oct. 9.  In July, Christie’s administration began making its first
post-Sandy buyout offers to homeowners along the Raritan Bay as
part of a $300 million program funded with federal money. Two
purchases have been completed and dozens more are expected in
the next few months, Christie’s office said in a statement
yesterday.  On Oct. 16, the  Facebook Inc. (FB)  page for the volunteer group
Weekday Warriors sought helpers to place a tarp at an Ortley
Beach home where a new roof leaked rainwater. Eight days
earlier, the whole state was under watch for a rare tornado --
it touched down in Paramus, 90 miles north, where it damaged
trees -- and the weather bulletin had spooked Joan DeLucia, the
group’s founder.  Falling Plaster  “They still have not fixed the dunes,” DeLucia, 54, a
Toms River resident, said by telephone. “It’s  hurricane season .
This should have been done in August.”  For Sarah Schreder, 41, August was the month when she grew
fed up with falling plaster, the result of roof damage, and a
lack of air conditioning and heating at her home in  Old
Greenwich ,  Connecticut .  “It was damp in the summer, and in the winter it was
cold,” Schreder said by telephone. “I had to tell my husband I
will not live there one more winter. I had to draw a line.”  They’re leasing in another part of Greenwich, paying rent
atop their mortgage, as they apply for federal funding to raise
their residence above flood levels. Another homeowner on her Old
Greenwich street, his mechanical system destroyed, is sticking
it out with a fireplace for heat.  ‘In Hell’  “We’re in hell right now,” said 47-year-old Louis Csak,
an engineer. “I can’t emotionally go through another flood.”  In Long Beach, on a barrier spit off Long Island’s southern
shore, an advertising campaign featured actor and comedian  Billy Crystal  urged tourists to visit “my hometown.” The boardwalk,
with attractions from food carts to a trapeze school, saw one of
its best seasons ever, according to city council President Scott
Mandel.  Even so, federal and state agencies and private insurance
companies have been slow to hand out funds and as many as 7,000
residents haven’t come back, Mandel said.  “We’re disappointed that we haven’t been able to bring
everyone home,” Mandel said by phone. “This is our Long Beach
family, and it’s not the same without them.”  West of Long Beach, on  New York City ’s  Staten Island , 43-year-old Aiman Youssef gives Midland Beach neighbors donated
food, baby supplies and clothes in a tent where his house and
home-based electronics business once stood.  Youssef had missed an insurance payment and was denied
coverage when Sandy struck, and money from the state and FEMA
hasn’t been enough to rebuild. When he almost lost funding this
year for the hotel room he calls home, a case manager at the
Jewish Community Center stepped in.  He operates the tent as part of a religious commitment to
help others because the area still needs food, money and
volunteers.  “We still have homes with mold, and people have left and
they’re not coming back,” said Youssef, a native of  Syria  who
has called Midland Beach home for 20 years. “It looks to me
like we’re in a Third World country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  