-- Scene Last Night: Ackman on Biology, Krawcheck on Gender
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-10-25T14:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/scene-last-night-ackman-on-biology-krawcheck-on-gender.html
Dascha Polanco, who plays a prisoner
in the  Netflix (NFLX)  show “Orange Is the New Black,” wore a dress
with a swatch of blue to the  Doe Fund ’s gala last night, a nod
to the blue uniforms of Doe Fund trainees who clean  New York 
streets.  They’re formerly homeless or incarcerated people caught in
the “cycle of poverty,” Polanco said. “I’m here because the
Doe Fund has found a way to get them out of it.”  Marvin Schwartz, a managing director at Neuberger Berman
Group LLC, and Michael Weisberg, founder of Crestwood Capital
Management Inc., were among the gala co-chairmen.  Ballroom Bagpipes  The New York Police & Fire Widows’ & Children’s Benefit
Fund gala at the Waldorf Astoria kicked off with bagpipes and
ended with a disc jockey spinning dance tunes at a volume that
shook the Basildon Room’s chandeliers.  The dance party gathered young supporters of the fund,
which gives aid to the families of those who have died in the
line of duty. Guests included Michael Lawler, executive director
of New York State’s Republican Party, and Philip Giambanco, an
international sales trader at Citigroup Global Markets Inc.  The bagpipes had been in the ballroom earlier, before a
dinner attended by Richard Rosenblatt, chief executive officer
of Rosenblatt Securities Inc., and Lawrence Schloss, who is soon
to start as president of Angelo Gordon & Co. after serving as
the chief investment officer of  New York City ’s pension funds.  More Women  “Nothing bad happens when women and men come together --
not in that way, although that’s not bad either,”  Sallie Krawcheck  said on Oct. 23, at the 10th annual  Hedge Fund
Rocktoberfest .  The owner of 85 Broads Unlimited LLC, participating in the
event’s first “VIP Roundtable” hosted by Yahoo Finance, was
referring to bringing more women into finance (where she last
worked as president of global wealth at  Bank of America Corp. ).
Among the benefits of having more women around, studies have
shown, are “lower risk and greater innovation,” she said.  After the roundtable at Capitale, a few hundred guests
arrived to listen to bands formed by finance professionals.  Mead Welles, CEO of Octagon Asset Management LLC, played
guitar with The Lifted Hits. Welles founded Rocktoberfest to
raise money for A Leg to Stand On, which provides prosthetic
legs for children in  developing countries .  New Prize  “The peak of my biomedical education was my Bio AP exam
that I took in high school,”  Bill Ackman  said on Oct. 22 at the
Galien Forum, one of the world’s leading science conferences.  The CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management was there
because  Pershing Square Foundation  has created a new prize for
young, New York-based scientists.  “Basically, about a year ago I decided that the foundation
had done a lot for education, economic empowerment, but really
nothing in the field of health care, cancer research,” Ackman
said.  One of his inspirations was participating in the Sohn
Investment Conference, named for Ira Sohn, a Wall Street
professional who died of cancer at 29. Ackman decided to partner
with the Sohn organization and make a $25 million grant,
creating the Pershing Square Sohn  Cancer Research  Alliance.  “The problem is $25 million in the context of cancer is
not a meaningful amount of money,” Ackman said. “I’m a
capitalist, I look for inefficiencies in the markets.”  He recruited Olivia Flatto, a scientist with experience in
philanthropy. She in turn involved Marc Tessier-Lavigne,
president of Rockefeller University, and Bill Doyle, executive
chairman of Novocure.  Scientists Gap  “Some of the best ideas, some of the most important work,
is done” by young scientists, Ackman said.  The Pershing Square Sohn Prize for Young Investigators in
Cancer Research will provide $200,000 annual grants to fund
“high risk, high reward” laboratory work for two to three
years. Five grants will be made in the first year.  In his day job, Ackman said he hasn’t been an investor in
science. “I’m going to meet some CEOs here, see if there are
opportunities.”  The CEOs at the conference included Ken Frazier of Merck &
Co., Alex Gorsky of Johnson & Johnson, and John Lechleiter of
Eli Lilly & Co.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Zinta
Lundborg  on New York Weekend.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 