-- Schneider Cuts 2013 Targets as Euro Strength Hurts Sales
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-10-25T08:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/schneider-cuts-2013-targets-as-euro-strength-hurts-sales.html
Schneider Electric SA (AI) , the world’s
biggest maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, cut its 2013
profitability and revenue forecasts because of the euro’s rally
on foreign-exchange markets.  The decline of currencies in Asia-Pacific and other markets
such as  Turkey ,  Argentina  and  South Africa  will crimp
Schneider’s margin, based on adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes and amortization, by 0.3 to 0.5 percentage points, the
French company said in a statement today. The stock dropped as
much as 4.4 percent, the biggest decline since July.  Schneider joins companies such as Unilever, the British-Dutch maker of Magnum ice cream, and Paris-based water company
Suez Environnement in saying that the euro exchange rate is
denting earnings. The French company, which is already slashing
costs to adapt to a construction slump and government austerity
measures in  Europe , said it will seek to compensate the negative
currency impact next year by raising prices and moving expenses
into  emerging markets .  “We’re working to raise prices, though it doesn’t happen
in a day, and you don’t want to overreact or underreact,”
Schneider Chief Financial Officer Emmanuel Babeau said in a
phone interview today. “We’ll also continue to place more of
our costs in countries with weak or more volatile currencies to
aim for a natural hedge, even it will never be perfect.”  The company previously forecast that the 2013 Ebita margin
would be “stable to slightly up.” It now targets Ebita to only
be “stable to slightly up” excluding currency swings and the
impact from acquisitions.  Euro Rally  Before today, Europe’s common currency had climbed 6.7
percent against a basket of its nine major peers this year, more
than the others, as the euro region emerged from a record-long
recession, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show.  “The  euro zone  is the only area which doesn’t seem to want
to use its currency as a weapon for economic competitiveness,
unlike the U.S.,  Japan  and other countries,” Babeau said. “At
$1.38, the euro seems overvalued.”  Schneider shares were down 4.1 percent at 60.65 euros at
9:05 a.m. in Paris, paring the stock’s gain this year to 11
percent, and giving the company a market value of 34 billion
euros ($47 billion).  Revenue Hit  The company will continue to add more manufacturing and
support functions in faster-growing markets such as India,
 Russia  and  Brazil , the CFO said.  Schneider, based in  Rueil-Malmaison  near Paris, also said
today that currency swings will crimp 2013 revenue by between
800 million euros and 900 million euros. At the start of the
year, it forecast a negative impact of 600 million euros.  The company now targets a “stable to limited organic
revenue growth” in 2013. Its previous forecast was for a “low-single digit organic growth in sales.”  Third-quarter revenue declined 3.2 percent to 5.9 billion
euros, Schneider said. Analysts polled by Bloomberg  projected 
6.15 billion euros, according to the average of four forecasts.
Excluding acquisitions and exchange rate fluctuations, sales
rose 0.7 percent.  Foreign exchange fluctuations trimmed third-quarter revenue
by 352 million euros as the European currency strengthened
against the dollar, the yen, the  Indian rupee  and the Brazilian
real and other currencies, Schneider said. Net acquisitions
added 114 million euros to sales, boosted by the purchase of the
50 percent that Schneider didn’t already own in Russia’s
Electroshield-TM Samara.  Invensys Deal  Schneider also said today it may complete the purchase of
 Invensys Plc (ISYS)  in the fourth quarter of 2013 or in the first
quarter next year. It agreed in July to buy the U.K. company for
an enterprise value of 2.4 billion pounds ($3.9 billion) to add
software and control systems used in the chemical, oil and gas,
and mining industries, to its plant automation products.  “In the future, our priority will be integration of
acquisitions, optimization of our portfolio and our footprint,
and continued effort on operational efficiency to maximize the
return on recent investments,” said Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Pascal Tricoire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  