-- Scots Nationalists Lose Vote After Plant Threatened With Ax
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2013-10-25T11:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/scottish-nationalists-lose-vote-after-plant-threatened-with-axe.html
Scotland’s nationalists lost a
special election yesterday, as politicians scrambled to save a
nearby petrochemicals plant from closure with less than 11
months to go before a referendum on independence.  The  Labour Party  won 42.5 percent of the vote, beating the
 Scottish National Party ’s 30.6 percent, in the Scottish
Parliament seat in Dunfermline, the birthplace of U.S.
philanthropist  Andrew Carnegie . It had been vacated after the
former lawmaker was jailed for domestic abuse. The results
showed a 6.9 percentage-point shift in voting to Labour from the
SNP.  “You can’t overestimate its importance, because it’s a
measure of how the SNP are seen,” Matt Qvortrup, a senior
researcher on politics at Cranfield University in  England , said
in an interview before the result. “This is the kind of seat
they have to win to perform in the referendum.”  Dunfermline lies across the Firth of Forth 20 miles (32
kilometers) from the Grangemouth industrial site. Unions and
management faced off there this week over the future of
production at Scotland’s only oil refinery and 800 jobs in
jeopardy at the chemicals plant. Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond , the leader of the SNP, was involved in trying to broker
a deal, with how to run the economy a key battleground in the
independence debate.  Grangemouth Agreement  Refinery owner Ineos Group Holdings SA said today the
210,000 barrel-a-day facility would restart immediately. The
petrochemical plant, which Ineos said the day before the
election would be closed, will also be kept open after union
officials offered to agree to new terms to save jobs.  “This news is a tremendous fillip for the workforce and
the whole Grangemouth community, following what could have been
a potential disaster,” Salmond said in an e-mailed statement
following the company’s announcement. “Clearly for many people
across the communities of the Forth Valley, Wednesday was a day
of despair -- today is quite different, and is a day of great
satisfaction that not only has a key part of  Scotland ’s
industrial infrastructure been saved but that people can look
forward with confidence to a bright future.”  Salmond has said Scotland would be better off if it had
control over all its finances and resources, including North Sea
oil and gas. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , his Liberal
Democrat coalition partners and the opposition Labour Party
counter that the country should remain part of a union with
England,  Wales  and  Northern Ireland  to ensure its economy is
protected from worldwide shocks.  Devolved Powers  The Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh, restarted in 1999 as
the U.K. devolved power, currently has control over policy areas
including transportation, health, education and justice while
the government in  London  oversees the economy, defense and
foreign policy.  Support for going it alone is about 20 percentage points
behind remaining part of the U.K., according to TNS BMRB and
 YouGov Plc (YOU)  polls over the past month.  Former SNP lawmaker  Bill Walker  took the Dunfermline seat
by a margin of  590 votes  in the 2011 Scottish parliamentary
election that saw the SNP sweep to power with an unprecedented
majority and pave the way for the independence ballot, which
will be held on Sept. 18, 2014.  Yesterday, the SNP’s Shirley-Anne Somerville lost out to
Labour’s Cara Hilton in Dunfermline. The electoral district was
created from two older constituencies in the town, one
previously held by Labour and the other by the Liberal
Democrats.  Walker was found guilty of attacking three former wives and
a step-daughter between 1967 and 1995. He was sentenced in
Edinburgh on Sept. 20 to 12 months in prison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  