-- Sebelius Says More Website Tests Would Have Been Better
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-25T20:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/sebelius-says-more-site-tests-would-have-been-better-correct-.html
The website allowing consumers to
obtain medical coverage under Obamacare would have had more
testing “in an ideal world,” U.S. Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said.  The number of people using the healthcare.gov website
exceeded the government’s expectations, Sebelius said at a news
conference today in Austin,  Texas . Site failures have made it
difficult to enroll, marring the implementation of President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  “I don’t think anyone knew that the volume would cause the
problems it did,” she said. “I didn’t realize it wouldn’t be
operating optimally before the launch.”  The U.S. government did final tests of the website just
days before it went public, while similar projects are tested
for months, the main contractors yesterday told a House panel
investigating flaws that hobbled the Oct. 1 debut.  Testing assumed the maximum number of users would be no
more than five times the peak on the medicare.gov website,
Sebelius said.  “We thought that would be the maximum hits you would get
at one time,” she said. “We were just wildly incorrect.”  Asked who deserves blame, Sebelius said, “we will be
looking at all contracts.” She said, “there are lot of look
backs we will do.”  No Extension  Extending the enrollment deadline for the insurance
exchanges past March 31, a suggestion by several Democratic U.S.
senators, isn’t being considered, Sebelius said later in  San
Antonio . An extension would make it hard for insurance
providers, who need to know enrollment levels to make pricing
decisions, she said.  “We are committed to meeting this deadline. We are
committed to having an operational site,” Sebelius said. “We
already have 700,000 applications that have been submitted so we
know there is a huge interest and a huge pent-up demand.”  Sebelius met today with the mayors of Austin and San
Antonio and said that leaders of Texas’s four largest cities are
championing health care reform. The program is opposed by
Governor  Rick Perry  and other Republican leaders in the second-most populous state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  