-- Serbia’s Rating Kept at Junk by S&P With Negative Outlook
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-10-25T16:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/serbia-s-rating-kept-at-junk-by-s-p-with-negative-outlook.html
Serbia’s non-investment credit
rating was affirmed and kept on negative outlook by  Standard &
Poor’s , which said the Balkan nation faces potential external
financing challenges.  S&P left Serbia’s long- and short-term foreign and local
currency sovereign credit ratings at BB-/B, saying economic
growth potential is outweighed by concern that large parts of
the economy remain in recession, which can drive up the fiscal
deficit and public debt, the ratings company said in a statement
today.  “The ratings on Serbia are constrained by our view of the
potential fiscal and external financing challenges that the
country faces in light of its high fiscal and external
deficits,” as well as “moderate gross domestic product per
capita and limited monetary policy flexibility,” S&P said in
the statement.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic , who shuffled his Cabinet in
September, has pledged to raise taxes, push back the  retirement
age  for women, crack down on the shadow economy and cut
subsidies to state-owned companies to halt an increase in public
debt by 2016.  Yields on Serbian 10-year Eurobonds maturing in 2021 rose 4
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.177 percent by 6:08
p.m. in Belgrade. The dinar was little changed, trading at
114.0720 per euro, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Growth Impact  The measures are “unlikely to stabilize the debt-to-GDP
ratio in the near term, particularly given their likely
contractionary impact on economic growth,” S&P said.  The negative outlook reflects at least a one-in-three
chance that S&P could downgrade  Serbia  in the first half of next
year. Key risks are if the government fails to implement fiscal
consolidation measures and curb public debt, if borrowing costs
rise, or if growth falters, S&P said.  Serbia’s  Finance Ministry  said it expected “with energetic
implementation” of budget consolidation measures, a credit
upgrade will be come in the future.  “In that context the affirmed credit rating by Standard &
Poor’s today, despite the risks, is seen as a turning point
along that path,” the ministry said in an e-mail.  Serbia wants to reassure investors it can rein in a fiscal
gap the government estimates may reach 6.5 percent of annual
output this year. It is also trying to secure a precautionary
 credit line  from the  International Monetary Fund , which refused
loan talks in May when Serbia already fell short of its budget
commitments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  