-- Serco CEO Christopher Hyman Resigns Amid Overcharging Probe
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-10-25T12:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/serco-ceo-christopher-hyman-resigns-amid-overcharging-probe.html
Christopher Hyman, chief executive
officer of global services provider  Serco Group Plc (SRP) , resigned
amid an inquiry into claims the company overcharged the U.K.
government for tagging criminals.  “At this time, nothing is more important to me than
rebuilding the relationship with our U.K. government customer,”
Hyman, who has led the company since 2002, said in a statement
today. “In recent weeks it has become clear to me that the best
way for the company to move forward is for me to step back.”  Ed Casey, who has led Serco’s America division since 2005,
will take over Hyman’s role and begin the search for a new CEO
from outside Serco. Shares in the Hook, England-based company
gained as much as 5.4 percent and traded 0.8 percent higher at
557 pence at 12.21 p.m. in  London , valuing Serco at 2.8 billion
pounds ($4.5 billion).  Serco is struggling to regain its reputation as a reliable
government services provider since the U.K. Justice Ministry
opened an inquiry this year into its handling of a contract to
tag prisoners. The company agreed to repay any profit, estimated
to be about 2 million pounds, earned since the seven-year, 285
million-pound contract was renewed in 2011, and to forego future
profit. Electronic monitoring, or tagging, typically involves
requiring offenders to wear a bracelet around their ankle to
determine their location.  Serco said it has been “cooperating fully with reviews and
audits across a number of our central government contracts” and
expects the reviews to conclude in coming months.  Serco will split its U.K. and Europe divisions, with one
focused on the U.K. government and the other on the “wider
public sector,” the company said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  