-- Shoprite Said to Offer Buyback of Zambian Shares to End Dispute
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-10-25T15:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/shoprite-said-to-offer-buyback-of-zambian-shares-to-end-dispute.html
Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) ,  Africa ’s
biggest grocer, offered to repurchase shares trading on the
Lusaka Stock Exchange from Zambian investors to settle a
dispute, two people familiar with the matter said.  Shoprite offered to buy the securities at a 25 percent
discount to the price on the Zambian bourse, where the Cape
Town-based company has a secondary listing, one of the people,
who asked not to be identified because talks are private, said.
The proposal was rejected because it was too low, the person
said today by phone from Lusaka, Zambia’s capital. Sarita Van Wyk, a Cape Town-based spokeswoman for Shoprite, said she wasn’t
immediately able to comment.  The retailer is suing some shareholders of its Zambian unit
in a bid to reverse the purchase of shares now worth more than
302 million rand ($31 million). Shoprite, in court papers filed
in the Lusaka High Court in July, said its representative in
Africa’s largest copper-producing nation illegally sold the
shares at a discount to the local pension funds of companies
including  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,
 Sandvik AB (SAND) , and  SABMiller Plc. (SAB)   Shoprite shares closed trade at 63 kwacha ($11.78) in
Lusaka today, a 36 percent discount to the 180.80 rand they
closed at in Johannesburg.  The case was adjourned until Oct. 28 to allow Shoprite,
which trades its shares mainly in Johannesburg, and the
investors to start talks that “may result in the resolution of
the dispute,” Judge Flavia Chishimba wrote in court papers
dated Sept. 18.  The case is Shoprite Holdings Ltd. and Shoprite Checkers
Ltd. v Saturnia Regna Pension Trust Scheme Ltd. and 24 other
defendants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  