-- Siam Cement Using Cash Pile to Accelerate Growth: Southeast Asia
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-10-25T03:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/siam-cement-using-cash-pile-to-accelerate-growth-southeast-asia.html
Siam Cement Pcl (SCC) ,  Asia ’s biggest
cement producer by market value, plans to buy as many as five
companies in  Southeast Asia  as rising incomes boost demand for
homes and governments increase spending on infrastructure.  Bangkok-based Siam Cement is in talks with companies
including a building-materials producer in  Vietnam , President
Kan Trakulhoon said, without naming them. The value of each deal
will be between a few billion baht and 10 billion baht ($321
million), he said in an interview yesterday.  Kan said he will spend as much as 250 billion baht over the
next five years buying companies and expanding existing plants
in countries including  Thailand , Vietnam and Indonesia, where
governments have pledged to increase spending on overburdened
roads, railways, ports and airports.  “Our priority will be acquisitions,” Kan, 58, said.
“When we talk to our potential target company, they believe
that we have the cash to buy. We settle the deal, then we agree
and it goes to the board and we pay the money. No need to get
financing from banks. Nothing at all.”  Siam Cement has bought about 60 companies since 2007 using
its own cash, and will finance new acquisitions with existing
reserves of about 40 billion baht, he said.  “Siam Cement is the only Thai company that has achieved
aggressive expansion in the region,” Chatree Srismaicharoen, an
analyst at Krungsri Securities Co. in Bangkok, said by phone.
“There is vast potential in countries such as  Indonesia ,
Vietnam and Myanmar because of their large population,
urbanization and infrastructure development.”  Roads, Railways  Indonesia’s government plans to spend about $53 billion to
improve the nation’s airports, ports and railways, and
Thailand’s parliament is debating a proposal to spend $64
billion on roads and railways over the next seven years. Myanmar
needs to spend $320 billion on infrastructure by 2030 to lift
economic growth to 8 percent, according to estimates by the
McKinsey Global Institute.  Siam Cement, founded by Thailand’s King Vajiravudh in 1913
and  controlled  by the asset-management arm of the country’s
present monarch, Bhumibol Adulyadej, has businesses ranging from
cement and petrochemicals to paper and building materials. It
has plants in Thailand,  Cambodia , Indonesia and Vietnam.  The company’s  shares  fell 1.4 percent as of 10:10 a.m. in
Bangkok. The stock is down by the same amount so far this year,
compared with a 4.9 percent gain in the benchmark  SET Index (SET)  and
a 0.3 percent increase in the Stock Exchange of Thailand
Construction Materials Index. The stock rose 41 percent in 2012.  Myanmar, Philippines  Siam Cement is investing more than 18 billion baht to build
new cement plants in Myanmar and Indonesia, and in September
2011 the company paid about $418 million for 30 percent of
Indonesia’s PT Chandra Asri Petrochemical.  Acquisition opportunities are more limited in Myanmar,
because there are so few existing businesses in the country, and
in the  Philippines , Kan said.  “In the Philippines, it’s quite difficult because the
energy cost is very high,” he said. “Our main focus in the
Philippines will be on distribution and marketing, and we will
produce elsewhere.”  Construction of the company’s biggest new project, a $4
billion petrochemical complex in Vietnam, will begin in 2015, he
said. The plant, first announced in 2008 and delayed by a lack
of funding caused by the global financial crisis, will start
commercial production about three years after building begins,
Kan said.  Qatar Petroleum and Vietnam’s government are partners in
the project, which is being built in the southern Vietnamese
province of Ba Ria-Vung Tau and will have the capacity to
produce 1.4 million tons of olefins a year. Olefins are most
often used in the production of polymers used for plastics.  Chemical Recovery  The “worst time” for the petrochemical business has
passed, and the industry will continue to recover in the second
half, Kan said. Siam Cement’s profit in the third quarter showed
“positive growth” because of increased contributions from its
petrochemical unit, he said.  Profit will rise 35 percent to 8.69 billion baht in the
third quarter, according to the average of nine analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Of the analysts that cover the
stock, 26 recommend buying the shares and four have a sell
recommendation. The company is scheduled to report third-quarter
earnings on Oct. 30.  Acquisition negotiations can take as long as three years,
and Siam Cement sometimes offers company founders a minority
stake in a business to make a deal more attractive, Kan said.  “We spend two or three years talking to the owners, to the
founders, until they feel comfortable,” he said. “When we
acquire a company, immediately we can transfer best practices
for plant operations and also we can rationalize the equipment
as well. Usually the company will be doing much better within a
year, and the founder can see that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  