-- Singapore Reviews Blumont, Asiasons, LionGold After Slump
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-10-25T09:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/singapore-reviews-blumont-asiasons-liongold-after-stock-slump.html
The Monetary Authority of Singapore
is reviewing the trading of  Blumont Group Ltd. (BLUM) , Asiasons Capital
Ltd. and  LionGold Corp. (LIGO)  shares after a three-day slump of at
least 87 percent wiped out $6.9 billion in market value.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. or SGX classified the shares as
designated securities after they lost as much as 42 percent on
Oct. 4, a fall that triggered the three-day drop. The trading
limit, which prohibited investors from selling them unless they
hold the same quantity of shares, was lifted on Oct. 18.  “MAS and SGX are conducting an extensive review of the
activities around these stocks,” the central bank said in an e-mailed statement today. “This episode has also surfaced broader
issues regarding the market structure and practices which MAS
and SGX intend to review thoroughly.”  Regulators around the world have stepped up oversight of
 capital markets  after the global financial crisis in 2008. The
MAS established a 13-member council in 2010 with the goal of
boosting corporate governance standards and investor confidence.
The SGX,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest bourse, said after the decline
of the three stocks it plans to add circuit breakers by early
next year to halt trading for 10 minutes when shares move 10
percent in either direction.  Blumont fell 19 percent to 16.3 Singapore cents at the
close of trade, declining for a fourth day. Asiasons slid 18
percent to 18.9 Singapore cents, while LionGold dropped 15
percent to 25 Singapore cents. That’s the lowest close in a week
for all three stocks.  SGX said last week it lifted the restriction on the three
stocks because trading has become more stable.  Asiasons (ACAP)  tumbled 96 percent over the three trading days
through Oct. 8, while LionGold plunged 87 percent over the
three-day period. Blumont, which invests in minerals and energy,
slumped 94 percent over two trading days on Oct. 4 and Oct. 7.  “MAS has been closely monitoring the exposure of the
broking firms by collecting reports on losses and major
counterparty exposure arising from their exposures to the three
counters,” the central bank said. “The operations and
financial positions of the broking firms remain sound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  