-- SKF Scouts for Deals Among Makers of Seals, Power Systems
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-10-25T11:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/skf-scouts-for-deals-among-makers-of-seals-power-systems.html
SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s largest maker of
bearings, may use acquisitions to expand its offerings of
industrial seals and power-transmissions systems, Chief
Executive Officer Tom Johnstone said.  “We’re on the lookout to see what we can do,” Johnstone
said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.
“In the seals area, there’s still work to do. We’ve also been
looking for some time at power transmission, and there are
things we could do in that area that are very complementary.”  Johnstone, 58, said he is deferring major purchases for at
least the next few quarters as SKF integrates last week’s $1.25
billion takeover of Kaydon Corp., the largest in the Gothenburg,
Sweden-based manufacturer’s 106-year history. “Bolt-on”
acquisitions are possible in the meantime, he said.  SKF is moving production to faster-growing markets, such as
Asia and Latin America, from western Europe. The company has
said it wants to expand in North America because industrial
growth and modest wage increases make the region more attractive
for major investments this year than  China .  About 6.7 percent of SKF’s assets, including factories and
production facilities, are based in Sweden, compared with 28
percent in North America and 41 percent in the rest of Europe,
based on data compiled by Bloomberg. SKF employs 46,000 people.  While Kaydon is based in Ann Arbor,  Michigan , future
acquisition targets won’t be limited to the U.S., Johnstone
said.  “The geographical location of the company or the
headquarters is not the determinative factor,” Johnstone said.
“Does it bring us the right technology? Does it support the
customers and end-markets we’re trying to serve?”  SKF today dropped 0.5 percent to 172.9 krona in Stockholm
trading, paring the shares’ year-to-date advance to 3.2 percent.
That  trailed  the 17 percent gain for  Sweden ’s benchmark OMX
Stockholm 30 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  