-- Solvay Third-Quarter Earnings Drop 13% as Guar Gum Hurts Margins
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-10-25T07:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/solvay-third-quarter-earnings-drop-13-as-guar-gum-hurts-margins.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) , planning to put its
polyvinyl chloride assets in a joint venture with Ineos Group
Holdings SA, reported third-quarter profit fell as declining
guar prices squeezed margins of its gelling agents business.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell 13 percent to 439 million euros ($607 million)
from a restated 503 million euros a year earlier, the Brussels-based company said today in a statement. Adding back the vinyls
unit now presented as a discontinued business, Ebitda was 478
million euros including a 22 million-euro reversal of
provisions. Analysts had projected Ebitda of 463 million euros,
the average of eight  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Solvay said the drop in guar gum prices will continue to
affect margins for two more quarters as its Novecare unit keeps
selling gelling agents and ingredients for conditioners from raw
materials bought at higher prices. It also forecast a gradual
recovery in demand as volumes stopped falling in the past
quarter, which would mitigate  seasonal weakness  in the fourth
quarter, and said it would spend less than the 900 million euros
earmarked for capital spending this year.  “The comparison is a bit messy,” Filip De Pauw, an
analyst at ING Groep NV in Brussels, wrote today in an investor
note. “Results and outlook seem broadly in line with
expectations as consensus already  anticipated  a 2 percent
decline.”  Profit Outlook  Solvay fell as much as 3.7 percent on Euronext Brussels and
traded 2.60 euros lower at 114.70 euros by 9:15 a.m. The shares
had advanced 7.3 percent this year through yesterday, compared
with a 7.7 percent gain for the Stoxx 600 Chemicals Index in the
same period.  Adapting its profit outlook for the deconsolidation of the
vinyls business, pending European antitrust approval for the
joint venture, Solvay said the forecast for full-year Ebitda of
about 1.65 billion euros is “broadly in line” with its former
prediction.  “This new guidance is a slight downward revision, which
should not come as a major surprise though,” said Wim Hoste, an
analyst at KBC Securities in Brussels. “We understood there was
an underlying base of 1.706 billion euros in 2012.”  Net debt declined by 6.2 percent to 1.48 billion euros and
Solvay’s net pension liability shrank 3.6 percent to 2.62
billion euros from the previous quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  