-- Spanish Government Offers Fourth Cash-for-Clunkers Plan
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2013-10-25T14:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/spanish-government-offers-fourth-cash-for-clunkers-plan.html
Spain ’s government offered the
fourth cash-for-clunkers program in a year, extending state
incentives for car sales to fortify an economy emerging from a
two-year recession.  The Cabinet approved the 70 million-euro ($97 million)
program, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria told
reporters in  Madrid  today. The 1,000-euro subsidy, which must be
matched by a discount from the dealership, is available for new
cars priced at 25,000 euros or less. Buyers must trade in a
seven- to 10-year-old vehicle in exchange for a more fuel-efficient model.  The previous three plans, all of which exhausted their
funding, contributed to the purchase of 300,000 vehicles, Saenz
de Santamaria said. The latest incentives will last six months
or until the money runs out.  Car sales in Spain surged 29 percent in September, the
steepest gain among  Europe ’s five biggest automotive markets,
because of the earlier state-backed discounts. The delivery
increase contributed to the region’s strongest monthly car sales
growth in more than two years.  Auto manufacturers are counting on Spain, the only European
country currently offering a cash-for-clunkers program, to help
boost anemic demand across the region, where registrations are
at a two-decade low and set to decline in 2013 for the sixth
straight year. Spanish authorities are trying to support the car
industry both to spur consumption and to sustain manufacturing
in an economy ravaged by the collapse of a debt-fueled building
boom.  Ford’s Production  Wage cuts resulting from the 2012 overhaul of labor rules
have encouraged automakers such as  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to increase
production in Spain, where vehicle output rose 19 percent from a
year earlier last month. Paris-based  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and
Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM)  said on Oct. 1 that the U.S.
company’s plant in Zaragoza, Spain, will build a new version of
a jointly developed multipurpose vehicle in late 2016.  An increase in car manufacturing helped Spain’s economy
emerge from a two-year recession in the third quarter. Exports
are leading the recovery as the deepest government austerity
measures on record hold back domestic demand and companies
struggle to lure customers amid an unemployment rate of 26
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  