-- Strikes Surge as Killings of Colombian Union Leaders Fall
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-10-25T14:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/strikes-surge-as-killings-of-colombian-union-leaders-fall.html
At a makeshift camp outside a
Drummond Co.  coal mine  in northern  Colombia , roughly 200
strikers played cards as fellow-worker and evangelical pastor
Jehiz Castrillon urged them to stand fast in their fight for
more pay.  On the same August day, 350 miles away in Bogota, teachers
marched against the late payment of salaries, while in the
nation’s mountainous western coffee growing region, farmers
blocked roads and called for a wider roll-out of government
subsidies.  Strikes, demonstrations and protests are at a record pace
in Colombia this year as workers seek a bigger share of wealth
generated by the country’s expanding economy. After 50 years of
guerrilla warfare, the government’s success in weakening illegal
armed groups has drawn investment and rewarded businessmen,
while the gap between rich and poor remains considerable,
according to the  World Bank ’s  Gini index  of  income distribution .  “The economy has improved but the quality of jobs has gone
down,” Castrillon said in a Sept. 19 telephone interview, five
days after employees of Drummond returned to work following the
government’s announcement that an arbitration panel would settle
the dispute. “We want a basic monthly salary, health and work
security so we can buy a house and send our kids to college.”  That sentiment echoes across the nation as workers take to
the streets in unprecedented numbers this year. There were 283
work protests in various forms through August, the latest
numbers available, on track to surpass the record of 290 set
last year, according to Medellin-based research institute
 Escuela Nacional Sindical , which has been collecting the data
since 1991.  ‘A Storm’  Colombia is passing through a “storm,” President  Juan
Manuel Santos  said in an Aug. 29 speech on state television,
adding that the government will control prices of fertilizers
and pesticides to help farmers.  In parallel to the growing resentment, the lessening in the
cycle of violence by Marxist rebels and their paramilitary
opponents has made it less dangerous for workers to demand
higher salaries and improved working conditions.  “Physical intimidation has declined,” said Moises Baron,
head of organizational affairs with the  Union Sindical Obrera ,
which represents oil sector workers. “Today, thanks to
international criticism and political change there is a greater
respect for life in this country.”  Violent Assaults  The number of union members killed in 2012 was 22, down
from 186 in 2002, according to the Escuela Nacional Sindical. In
the past, the number of assassinations, abductions, death
threats and other violent assaults on trade union leaders and
unionized workers in Colombia was considered “ without
historical precedent ,” according to the International Labor
Organization.  Free-trade agreements with the European Union and U.S. that
include clauses aimed at ensuring worker rights have contributed
to the increased security, although implementation is far from
perfect, said Daniel Hawkins, director of research at the
Escuela Nacional Sindical.  “It’s a bit better than before but still not a bed of
roses,” he said, pointing to the formation of new criminal
groups in Colombia, known collectively as ‘bacrim’. “Many
former paramilitaries have changed names but remain active. And
the government has been ambiguous in implementing the FTA
clauses.”  Safety Concerns  A  free-trade agreement  between the U.S. and Colombia was
signed in 2006 and subsequently held up by the U.S Congress,
backed by non-government organizations and labor groups, over
 concerns  for the safety of Colombian union leaders. The deal
eventually came into effect in 2012 after the South American
country met U.S.-agreed targets to protect union members.  Foreign direct investment rose 824 percent over 10 years
ending December 2012, while annual growth has averaged 4.8
percent over the same period, aided by surging exports of oil,
coal and gold. The Colombian peso has rallied 52 percent over
the past decade, the best performing major emerging market
currency tracked by Bloomberg.  The  mining industry  has witnessed some of the most
prolonged strikes this year, including a one-month stoppage at
biggest coal mine Cerrejon in February, another 53 days at
second-largest producer Drummond starting July 23 and protests
by small-scale miners in August. “The mining sector has been
growing in importance in Colombia,” Sofia Leon, a researcher
with the Bogota-based research institute  Arco Iris , said.
“Workers now feel it’s the right moment to demand their
rights.”  Appealing Decision  Castrillon says he earns 3.7 million pesos ($1,960) a month
as a truck driver, 23 percent more than he earned a decade ago
with the same U.S. company. The Sintramienergetica  union to
which he belongs is appealing the government’s decision to end
the strike before workers secured their principal demands.  In contrast, truck drivers at  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s Escondida
mine in  Chile  get paid the equivalent of $80,000 a year,
excluding bonuses, according to the Melbourne-based company.  In a statement to workers on Aug. 9,  Drummond said its
offer including a 5 percent pay rise was “the best offer that a
coal company has made in the country.” Officials at Drummond’s
head office in Birmingham,  Alabama  didn’t reply to three
voicemails and one e-mail requesting further comment on salaries
and the labor dispute. Mediatica Comunicaciones, a company that
handles public relations for Drummond in Colombia, didn’t
respond to two e-mails and one voicemail seeking similar
comment.  Labor Flash-Points  Besides mining, agriculture is another major labor flash-point. After weeks of protests in February and March over
falling coffee prices, the government was forced to step in with
a system of subsidies. Contraband produce from  Venezuela , rising
fertilizer costs and the failure of successive Colombian
governments to implement adequate policies for the farming
sector reached a boiling point this year, Leon said.  In August, farmers in Boyaca, a major agricultural
province, blocked roads to Bogota, resulting in a restricted
supply of fresh vegetables to the capital and a series of
violent clashes with police.  “Colombia hasn’t witnessed this level of protests for 20
years,” says Leon. “What happened in Boyaca is incredible.”  During his time in office from 2002 to 2010, former
president  Alvaro Uribe  fought a successful war against the
country’s main rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia, or FARC. With the help of U.S. financing via Plan
Colombia, Uribe strengthened his armed forces and reclaimed
territory from the guerrillas, opening up new areas to oil and
mining exploration.  Paramilitary Groups  Uribe also disbanded Colombia’s illegal paramilitary
groups, including the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia,
which fought the FARC and, according to human rights group
Washington Office on  Latin America , were among those responsible
for labor leader killings.  Since Santos was elected in 2010, the government has
tracked down and killed the FARC’s top two leaders, and dozens
of its mid-level commanders. FARC numbers have dwindled to
roughly 8,000 from a peak of about 17,000 in 2002, according to
the government.  An opinion poll taken during the strikes showed a decline
in Santos’s popularity. The number of Colombians with a
favorable image of the president dropped to 21 percent at the
end of August from 48 percent in June, according to a Gallup
poll published by Caracol Radio and El Tiempo newspaper. It has
since partially rebounded.  Investors Wary  The disputes are also making some potential investors wary
about Colombia says Raphael Biderman, owner of the mid-sized
iron ore miner CMC Metal, based in  Mexico . “It would definitely
make me cautious about investing in the country,” he says. “It
doesn’t matter how rich a country is in resources, if you don’t
have a good business environment you can forget it.”  Despite Colombia’s advances, inequality remains a problem,
especially in rural areas, Santos said in an Oct. 17 speech.
Colombia’s Gini index, where 0 represents perfect equality and
100 total inequality, is 55.9, among the worst in  South America .
Colombia’s minimum wage has grown 83 percent over 10 years
ending Dec. 2012, with  Brazil ’s growing 211 percent over the
same period.  While investment in oil and mining has spurred Colombian
growth and job creation, it has also resulted in internal
displacement, environmental destruction and poorly paid jobs,
union official Baron says.  “The open economic model based on natural resource
extraction has attracted a maximum number of projects to
Colombia,” he says. “But the government’s capabilities are
very feeble regarding worker, environmental and social rights.
These weaknesses have transformed almost the whole country into
an area of disputes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  