-- Sudan Nomads Warn of War as Leaders Fail to End Abyei Fight
-- B y   A h m e d   F e t e h a   a n d   M a d i n g   N g o r
-- 2013-10-25T06:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/sudan-nomads-warn-of-war-as-leaders-fail-to-end-abyei-fight-1-.html
A nomadic group in the disputed
border region of Abyei threatened war if it’s excluded from a
referendum over the area’s status, after the presidents of  Sudan 
and South Sudan failed to end an impasse over the issue.  Abyei is contested by the Ngok Dinka, who are settled in
the area and consider themselves southerners, and Misseriya
nomads who herd their cattle south in the dry season and are
supported by the government in Khartoum. A referendum on Abyei
was promised as part of a 2005 deal that ended Sudan’s two-decade civil war. South Sudan split from the north two years ago
after a vote that was part of the peace accord.  Plans by the Ngok Dinka community to hold a unilateral vote
on the area’s sovereignty this month will only take place “over
our dead bodies,” said Sadig Babo Nimir, a leader of the
Misseriya ethnic group, which also lays claim to the territory.  Sudan’s government has failed to make any progress on the
dispute because of “its incompetence,” Nimir said in a phone
interview from Sudan’s capital, Khartoum, on Oct. 23. “They do
not negotiate properly -- it is better to leave it to us to
handle the problem.”  The impasse over Abyei has threatened to derail improving
relations between Sudan and South Sudan, which agreed in March
to restart crude oil exports from the south’s oil fields via
pipelines to Port Sudan. When it became independent, South Sudan
took three-quarters of the formerly united country’s oil
production of 490,000 barrels a day.  Chief Killed  South Sudan’s low-sulfur crude, which is prized by Japanese
buyers for use as clean-burning power-generation fuel, is pumped
mainly by China National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. and India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  Tensions have escalated in Abyei since the killing in May
of the Ngok Dinka leader Kuol Deng Kuol, who the United Nations
said was traveling in a convoy of peacekeepers attacked by a
Misseriya tribe member. Clashes between the north and south in
May-June 2011 forced more than 113,000 people to flee their
homes in the area, according to the UN.  The Misseriya “are armed enough to cause a lot of mess,”
according to Magdi El Gizouli, a fellow at the Nairobi-based
Rift Valley Institute. The group probably won’t resort to
conflict “as long as there are no concrete steps towards a
referendum that excludes them,” he said yesterday in a phone
interview from Freiburg,  Germany .  ‘Grave Concern’  The UN Security Council yesterday expressed its “grave
concern about the highly volatile situation in Abyei” and urged
the leaders of Sudan and South Sudan to avoid any action that
may heighten tension between the two countries.  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir and his southern
counterpart,  Salva Kiir , this week failed to reach a solution on
sovereignty for the border region. Talks in the southern
capital, Juba, on Oct. 22 ended with a renewed agreement to
“move quick to establish” a joint administration and police
force for Abyei, a pledge previously made in January. Both
measures are necessary to prepare for a plebiscite recognized by
the two nations.  “If the government cannot find a solution and the Dinka go
through with their plans then we will wage a war that will bring
Sudan back to square one,” Mahdi Babo Nimir, a Misseriya
leader, said yesterday in a phone interview. Mahdi and Sadig’s
brother, Mokhtar, is the official leader of the ethnic group.  Unilateral Plebiscite  The African Union has called for a referendum to be held
this month, with only people who reside in the area eligible to
vote on which country Abyei belongs to. That proposal is backed
by South Sudan and rejected by the north. The Ngok Dinka
community on Oct. 18 said it plans to hold a unilateral
plebiscite on the area.  South Sudan says it won’t recognize the result of a
unilateral vote and has called for the Security Council and
African Union to decide on the way forward. An African Union
delegation will visit Abyei on Oct. 26 and Oct. 27 as an
“opportunity to ease tension in the region,” according to the
UN.  The Misseriya community’s rights to traverse Abyei and
graze cattle are concessions “given to an alien, they’re not
given to citizens,” South Sudan’s Information Minister Michael Makuei, told reporters in Juba yesterday.  “Since the Misseriya are enjoying these rights then
they’re aliens,” he said. “They’ve no right to vote.”  At least 2,500 people arrived in Abyei from South Sudan
since early September, coinciding with the timing of the
proposed referendum, the UN’s Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs said in a report this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed Feteha in Cairo at 
 afeteha@bloomberg.net ;
Mading Ngor in Juba at 
 mngor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  