-- Swatch CEO Says Annual Sales Will Fall Short of 9 Billion Francs
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-10-25T15:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/swatch-gets-nod-from-regulator-to-reduce-component-deliveries.html
Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker
of components for Swiss watches, said annual revenue will fall
short of 9 billion francs ($10.1 billion) this year because of
unfavorable currency fluctuations.  The company’s sales growth will be closer to 10 percent
than 5 percent this year, Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek
said in an interview today. While the company had previously
said it would “flirt” with a sales level of 9 billion francs
this year, currencies have not cooperated, he said.  “We still will do very good results, but exchange rates
are unfortunately not helping us, that’s all,” Hayek said.
“Making 9 billion with these exchange rates will be
difficult.” The executive added that he is “very optimistic”
for next year and sees double-digit percentage growth if
currency fluctuations ease.  The dollar has declined about 5.4 percent against the Swiss
franc in the past year, while the yen has slumped 21 percent.
Givaudan SA, the world’s largest flavorings maker, this month
reported its first decline in sales for at least six quarters as
emerging-market currencies from  Brazil  to  India  dropped against
the Vernier, Switzerland-based company’s domestic currency.  Swatch fell  as much as 3.8 percent to 564 Swiss francs in
Zurich trading, the steepest drop since June 20. The stock was
down 1.8 percent at 576 francs at 4:52 p.m.  Earlier today, Swatch gained regulatory permission to
gradually cut deliveries of timepiece mechanisms to competitors,
a move that may cause some companies to run short of components.  Mechanical Movements  Swatch will be allowed in 2014 to reduce shipments of
mechanical movements to other Swiss watch producers to 75
percent of the average of shipments between 2009 and 2011, the
antitrust overseer, known as  Comco  in French and Weko in German,
said in a  statement  today. That will fall to 65 percent in 2016
and 55 percent in 2018.  Swatch’s ETA unit is estimated by analysts to make about
two-thirds of the mechanical movements used in the timepieces
made in the country. The company won provisional backing in 2011
to start cutting deliveries to competitors, though the regulator
this year sought to renegotiate an agreement that would have
ended sales of all movements and other watch parts by 2025.  Today’s accord “allows Swatch Group, to gradually reduce
the supply of mechanical movements,” the regulator said. The
agreement includes a clause to help small and medium-sized
companies in the event of “economic hardship,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  