-- Sweden’s Krona Surges as Confidence Index Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-10-25T08:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/sweden-s-krona-surges-as-confidence-index-exceeds-estimates.html
Sweden’s krona gained after an index
measuring household sentiment rose to its highest in more than
two years amid government promises to cut incomes taxes.   (SWECCI) The krona strengthened 0.3 percent against the euro to
8.7447 as of 10:14 a.m. in Stockholm. Versus the dollar, the
Swedish currency rose 0.4 percent to 6.3251.  The  consumer confidence  index climbed to 102.0 in October
from a revised 97.9 the previous month, the Swedish National
 Institute of Economic Research  said in a statement today. That
beat the 98.5 median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 10
analysts. A gauge of  manufacturing confidence  rose to a 17-month
high of 101.2 from a revised 94.5 and compared with analyst
 expectations  of 96.2.  “Households have become more positive about both their
personal finances and the Swedish economy,” NIER said.
Manufacturing “orders from the domestic market have risen in
recent months, while export demand has softened somewhat.
Employment is expected to fall further, but the percentage of
firms anticipating cutbacks is smaller than before.”  Sweden ’s government last month said it will cut income
taxes next year for a fifth time since coming to power in 2006
to support a recovery in the $540 billion economy. The central
bank yesterday it will underpin demand by keeping its main
lending rate unchanged at 1 percent until late next year.  Spending Growth  “The improved confidence should support households’
willingness to spend; we also expect to see good income gains
and low inflation ahead, which will boost household’s real
purchasing power,” said Andreas Wallstrom, an analyst at Nordea
Bank AB in Stockholm, in a note. “It is hard to be anything but
optimistic on private consumption going forward.”  The euro-zone emerged from a record-long recession in the
second quarter, expanding for the first time since 2011. That’s
good news for Sweden, which sells about half its output  abroad ,
of which about 70 percent goes to Europe.  Swedish economic growth will accelerate to 2.6 percent next
year from 0.7 percent in 2013, while unemployment will fall to
7.8 percent from 8 percent, the Riksbank predicted yesterday.  Improved consumer and manufacturing confidence ’’suggest
upside risks to Swedish GDP growth going forward compared to the
Riksbank’s GDP growth estimates,’’ said Martin Enlund, an
analyst at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in  Stockholm .  Swedish  credit growth  held at 4.8 percent for a third month
in September, Statistics Sweden said today. That’s the highest
level since the start of last year, fueling concern of a housing
bubble after apartment prices rose 14 percent in the 12 months
through August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  