-- U.K. Stocks Fluctuate as FTSE 100 Heads for Weekly Gain
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-10-25T13:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/u-k-stocks-fluctuate-as-ftse-100-heads-for-weekly-gain.html
U.K. stocks  swung between gains and
losses, with the benchmark  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index heading for its third
consecutive weekly increase, as a report showed Britain’s
economic growth last quarter met forecasts.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  rose 2.5 percent after the
 Bank of England  unveiled measures to widen lenders’ access to
funds. British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc dropped 2.8 percent
after Macquarie Group Ltd. said it may face competition for the
rights to broadcast Champions League soccer.  The FTSE 100 advanced 5.6 points, or 0.1 percent, to
6,718.78 at 2:05 p.m. in London, after closing at its highest
level in almost five months yesterday. The gauge has climbed 1.4
percent this week and 14 percent so far this year. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index added less than 0.1 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 0.4 percent.  “We’ve had a good week and of course a strong year-to-date, so inevitably there is going to be some consolidation,”
 Richard Hunter , head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in
London, said in a phone interview. “We’ll get a much better
view next week of how U.K. companies are doing.”  Some of the largest companies in the FTSE 100, including BP
Plc, AstraZeneca Plc, BG Group Plc and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  report their
 earnings  next week.  Economic Growth  U.K. economic  growth  accelerated to its fastest pace in
more than three years in the third quarter as the recovery
continued in all major industries. Gross domestic product rose
0.8 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said. That
matched the median of 40 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  Data from  Germany  showed  business confidence  unexpectedly
decreased in October. The Ifo institute’s business climate
index, which is based on a survey of 7,000 executives, fell to
107.4 from 107.7 in September. The median forecast in a survey
of 39 economists had called for a reading of 108.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
 orders for durable goods  increased 3.7 percent in September
after gaining a revised 0.2 percent in August. That beat the
median economist estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  RBS, which is owned by the state, rose 2.5 percent to 365.3
pence. Barclays Plc climbed 1.2 percent to 269.6 pence.  Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  said he will overhaul
the central bank’s money-market operations to cut the cost of
liquidity insurance to the financial system. The BOE will expand
the range of collateral it accepts in its facilities and offer
money for longer periods on cheaper terms, Carney said in a
speech in London late yesterday. Officials will also consider
making some tools available to a wider range of institutions.  G4S Gains  G4S Plc (GFS)  climbed 2.9 percent to 260.4 pence. HSBC Holdings
Plc raised its recommendation on the world’s biggest provider of
security services to neutral from underweight, meaning that
investors should no longer sell the shares.  BSkyB (BSY)  fell 2.8 percent to 923.5 pence, its first retreat
this week, as Macquarie lowered its recommendation on the stock
to neutral from outperform, the equivalent of buy. BT Group Plc
may compete with the U.K.’s largest pay-TV provider for the
rights to broadcast Europe’s  Champions League , analysts led by
Guy Peddy wrote in a note.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s biggest luxury-goods maker,
declined 1.8 percent to 1,519 pence. French competitor Kering SA
fell in Paris after third-quarter revenue trailed estimates amid
the weakest growth in four years for the Gucci brand.
      Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR) , which will be in charge of
replacing a mail-sorting center near London’s Oxford Street with
flats and office buildings, fell 1.8 percent to 587 pence.
Deutsche Bank AG reduced the shares to sell from hold following
their  20 percent advance  this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  