-- U.K. Seeks East Coast Rail Offers in Privatization Rebid
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-10-25T10:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/u-k-seeks-east-coast-rail-offers-in-privatization-rebid.html
Britain’s government asked for bids
from operators seeking to run the East Coast rail line, a move
that could see  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Rail Group vie with
Eurostar Group Ltd. for control of the London-to- Scotland  route.  Bidders have until Dec. 2 to signal their interest, with an
initial shortlist due in January, the Department for Transport
said in a prospectus published today. Those making the cut will
have three months to make their bids, with a contract award
planned in October ahead of the start of the franchise service
in February 2015, it said.  The East Coast franchise, which stretches 581 miles (935
kilometers between London and Aberdeen and Inverness in
Scotland, has been run by government-appointed  Directly Operated
Railways Ltd.  since 2009. The former operator,  National Express
Group Plc (NEX) , invoked a clause allowing it to withdraw from the
contract after revenue fell during the recession.  “We need a strong partner to ensure we successfully
deliver the 240 million-pound program of infrastructure
investments on the route and the improvements in rolling stock
that the multibillion Intercity Express Program will provide,”
Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin said in the prospectus.
“We want to see a revitalized East Coast railway.”  Eurostar, which runs the trains on the Paris-London link,
and the Keolis unit of French state train company Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Francais said last month they would
jointly pursue the East Coast contract.  Transport union RMT is opposed to the privatization, saying
it will mean reduced service quality.  ‘Vast’ Subsidies  “It is simply outrageous that the government are firing
the starting gun this morning on the reprivatization of the East
Coast,” RMT General Secretary  Bob Crow  said in an e-mailed
statement. “Every objective analysis shows that this is a
successful and reliable service contributing a billion pounds
back to the government while the private operators are milking
huge profits and soaking up vast taxpayer subsidies.”  In March, the U.K. government committed to the sale process
as part of a wider revamp of its franchising system following
the botched award of the West Coast line to  FirstGroup Plc. (FGP)  The
contract was voided after complaints from Virgin triggered a
government probe that faulted the selection process.  Virgin, the incumbent, will continue operating  Europe ’s
busiest mixed-use rail line, with the franchise set to come up
for renewal in April 2017 after the contract was extended to
remove a conflict with the tendering process for the East Coast.
That should make it easier for Branson to win the East Coast
franchise and expand in an industry he’d threatened to quit
after being initially stripped of the West Coast contract last
year.  Stagecoach, which owns 49 percent of Virgin Rail Group,
said on its website it is “considering closely” the East Coast
opportunity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  