-- MUB’s Evaporating Discount Signals Slower Outflows: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/mub-s-evaporating-discount-signals-slower-outflows-muni-credit.html
The largest exchange-traded fund
tracking the $3.7 trillion municipal market is selling at the
smallest discount to the value of its assets since July,
signaling a slowdown in the record stampede out of local debt.  The  $3.1 billion  iShares National AMT-Free Muni Bond ETF,
known as MUB, sold at about  0.03 percent  less than the value of
its holdings as of Oct. 23, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s down from a record 2.86 percent gap in June.  The ETF ended at a three-month high of  $105.13 per share 
yesterday. It’s been trading at a discount since May, mirroring
a drop in demand for city and state bonds as investors yanked a
historic amount of cash this year from muni mutual funds. The
shift suggests that buyers will return to local debt in the next
few months, said Bart Mosley, co-president of Trident Municipal
Research in  New York .  “At least it means that those outflows will subside,”
Mosley said. “The narrowing or the elimination of a discount on
ETF products reflects the renewed comfort of investors with
fixed-income generally.”  Munis are benefiting with other fixed-income assets from
bets that the partial U.S. government shutdown this month will
slow the economy and lead the  Federal Reserve  to extend its
monthly bond-buying. Investors pulled about $746 million from
muni mutual funds this week, about 40 percent less than the
prior period, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Standoff Turnaround  Before the government standoff, speculation was building
that the Fed was set to curb its purchases of Treasuries and
mortgage debt. That helped spur the withdrawal of a record $55
billion from muni mutual funds in the 21 weeks through Oct. 16,
according to Lipper.  “As the expectation for rates becomes more stable, then
you have less uncertainty about how much bonds are worth and
that should help close the MUB discount,” said Matt Fabian,
managing director of Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm
Municipal Market Advisors.  MUB, created in 2007, is similar to mutual funds that track
an index of equities, bonds or commodities. A difference is that
ETFs can be bought and sold throughout the trading day and their
prices may rise or fall more than the value of the assets they
hold.  The MUB has rallied in the past week, with investors adding
about $21 million on Oct. 23, the first inflow since May 14,
Bloomberg data show. Even with that gain, investors have pulled
$227 million from the fund this year, after adding $885 million
in 2012, the biggest annual jump since the fund began.  Market Drivers  Detroit ’s historic bankruptcy filing in July and concern
that  Puerto Rico ’s finances were deteriorating heightened
investors’ perception of risk in state and local debt, said
Matthew Tucker, head of iShares fixed-income strategy at
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  in  San Francisco .  The MUB “is sensitive to the broader sentiments within the
retail market around municipal bonds,” Tucker said. “And when
that sentiment turns negative, it impacts flows.”  The health of Puerto Rico’s finances has implications for
the entire $3.7 trillion municipal market. Its debt is held by
77 percent of muni mutual funds, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The territory’s securities are tax-exempt nationwide. They
have rallied every day since commonwealth officials on Oct. 15
said the island has enough funds to potentially delay selling as
much as $1.2 billion of sales-tax bonds through June 30 if
borrowing costs are too high.  Asset Advance  “The market still has some long-term concerns about Puerto
Rico, but there’s not a near-term event which might lead to some
re-pricing of Puerto Rico debt,” Tucker said.  The municipal market is also benefiting from a rally in
Treasuries, said  Mikhail Foux , a muni analyst at Citigroup Inc.
in New York.  Treasury 10-year yields traded at almost a three-month low
on signs that global economic growth has lost some momentum.
More Americans than forecast filed applications for jobless
benefits last week.  Ten-year Treasury yields fell to 2.47 percent this week,
the lowest since July 22. That’s helped the muni market, where
10-year yields dropped to 2.71 percent, the lowest since Sept.
30.  “You are seeing the shift back to the investor mindset
where people are preferring income and stability,” said
Trident’s Mosley.  Relative Losers  Munis are trailing gains in Treasuries as issuers
nationwide plan about $7.6 billion of borrowing this week, the
most since July. City and state debt has gained 0.3 percent this
month, compared with 0.7 percent for Treasuries, Bank of America
Merill Lynch data show.  The ratio of local to federal yields, a measure of relative
value, is about  108 percent , compared with an average of 94
percent since 2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are
compared with Treasuries.  Following is a pending sale:  Arkansas  plans to sell $200 million of general obligations
on Oct. 29 via competitive sale. Proceeds will finance work on
interstate highways. Arkansas last month issued about $469
million to finance highway construction, the state’s biggest
municipal offering since at least 1990.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 