-- Lufthansa Seeks Partner for Infrastructure Services Department
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-10-25T16:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/lufthansa-seeks-partner-for-infrastructure-services-department.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s
second-largest airline, is seeking a partnership that would cut
its information technology unit almost in half as it seeks to
reduce costs.  The carrier wants “a large international company to
partner with” for the infrastructure services portion of its
Lufthansa Systems unit, spokeswoman Sandra Hammer said today in
an e-mailed statement. The infrastructure portion of the
business, which operates computer centers, has about 1,300 of
the IT unit’s 2,800 employees.  Lufthansa will emphasize that any future partner should
safeguard most jobs, and the Oct. 22 decision by the company’s
board has been communicated to employees and labor
representatives, Hammer said. German news agency DPA reported
the news earlier.  Partnering with IT services companies such as  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Systems unit or  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  is conceivable, while no partner has been selected yet,
Hammer said. The infrastructure business needs to be bigger to
compete with rivals, she said.  Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz has frozen the
aircraft fleet and is cutting more than 3,500 jobs and moving
parts of Lufthansa’s revenue services operations abroad to slash
costs for a goal of lifting operating profit to 2.3 billion
euros ($3.2 billion) by 2015.  Lufthansa said on Oct. 22 that currency fluctuations, lower
air-freight prices and restructuring costs mean that operating
profit this year will amount to no more than 700 million euros,
24 percent lower than the average analyst estimate collected by
Bloomberg at the time. The potential changes at the IT unit
weren’t part of the original efficiency program, and the unit is
still due to contribute 35 million euros in additional operating
profit by 2015, Hammer said.  The infrastructure services unit has its most important
sites in London, Dallas and  Singapore , as well as Budapest,
 Buenos Aires  and Flensburg, in  Germany . Lufthansa Systems is
headquartered in Kelsterbach, adjacent to Frankfurt airport.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  