-- Lumber Soars to Six-Month High on Canada Beetle Damage
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-10-25T19:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/lumber-soars-to-six-month-high-on-canada-beetle-damage.html
Lumber futures jumped to a six-month
high as two producers plan to close mills in British Columbia,
fueling supply concerns as a beetle infestation decimates
forests in the region.  West Fraser Timber Co. said yesterday it plans to shut its
mill in Houston, British Columbia, and Canfor Corp. will close
its  Quesnel  site in the province. The Vancouver-based companies
cited a timber shortage after forests were ravaged by the
mountain pine beetle. Lumber futures have surged 22 percent
since the end of May.  The shutdowns will aggravate supply concerns already
heightened by low inventories, said Paul Jannke, an analyst at
Forest Economic Advisors LLC, an industry consultant in
Westford,  Massachusetts . The announcements marked the first
major closures linked to the beetle scourge, which has destroyed
an estimated 710 million cubic meters of timber, he said.  “This is definitely going to bolster prices going into
next year,” Jannke said in a telephone interview. “It’s also
coming at a time when you typically start to see mills going
down for maintenance.”  On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, lumber futures for
January delivery surged by the limit of $10 to settle at $373.80
per 1,000 board feet at 2:14 p.m., the highest for a most-active
contract since April 12. The 2.7 percent gain was the biggest
since Sept. 13. Prices are 18 percent higher than they were a
year ago.  The mills that are closing account for more than half a
million board feet of lumber, Jannke said.  The beetle “infestation has killed vast portions of the
interior pine forest, resulting in a continuing deterioration
and loss of merchantable timber available to wood-products
producers in the interior” of British Columbia, West Fraser
said yesterday in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  