-- Lundbeck's Brintellix Recommended by EU Drug Regulator
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-10-25T12:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/lundbeck-s-brintellix-recommended-by-eu-drug-regulator.html
H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN) ’s antidepressant
Brintellix was recommended for approval by the European Union’s
drug regulator.  Brintellix won the backing of the Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use for the treatment of adults with major
depression, Copenhagen-based Lundbeck said in a statement today.  Brintellix will probably be prescribed as a second-choice
treatment for patients who don’t respond to, or can’t tolerate,
cheaper generic options, Chief Executive Officer Ulf Wiinberg
has said. It will help offset declining revenue from Lexapro,
another antidepressant, which lost patent protection in the U.S.
in March 2012.  Lundbeck climbed as much as 2.5 percent and was up 2
percent to 118.80 kroner at 2:49 p.m. in Copenhagen. The shares
have gained 46 percent this year, including reinvested
dividends.  Peak sales of the drug, which will be co-promoted with
Japanese partner  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , may reach $1 billion
to $2 billion, and Lundbeck plans to hire more than 200
salespeople in the U.S. to market it, Chief Financial Officer
Anders Gotzsche said in an interview in August. The U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration  approved the product Sept. 30.  The EMA’s recommendations are the final stage before the
European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, approves or rejects
a drug for sale to patients in the 28-nation region. The EC
usually follows the committee’s advice.  Cognitive Dysfunction  Lundbeck will present results from a late-stage clinical
trial studying the effect of Brintellix on cognitive dysfunction
at a U.S. medical meeting starting Dec. 8, according to Andreas Eggert, Lundbeck’s head of global product strategy.  As many as 90 percent of patients with depression complain
of cognitive dysfunction where they have trouble with
concentration, attention and decision-making, Eggert said in an
interview today. The study will compare Brintellix with a
placebo, and a second trial, to be completed next year, will
examine the drug against Eli Lilly & Co.’s Cymbalta, he said.  Brintellix may have “blockbuster upside” if a cognition
benefit is shown in the two trials, Jefferies International Ltd.
analyst Peter Welford said in a note to investors on Oct. 1.  For Related News and Information:
Lundbeck, Takeda Win U.S. Approval for Brintellix in Depression  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  