-- Hungary Eyes Gradual Phasing Out of FX Mortgage Loans
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-10-25T08:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/hungary-eyes-gradual-phasing-out-of-fx-mortgage-loans.html
Hungary’s government plans to phase
out foreign-currency mortgages over the next three to five years
and cut borrower’s monthly payments by as much as 20 percent,
Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  said.  “We must be careful not to sink the banking system” as
several banks would be unable to handle losses similar to those
triggered by the early repayment plan, Varga said in an
interview on public television M1 today.  Banks in Hungary lost $1.7 billion during a 2011 program
that allowed the early repayment of foreign-currency mortgages
at below-market exchange rates in a lump sum. More than 156,000
borrowers repaid their loans under that program.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government, which faces
elections in 2014, promised to ease the burden of Hungarian
households with foreign-currency mortgages after earlier
initiatives failed to help about half a million borrowers
holding almost $17 billion in such loans.  Installments soared with the forint’s plunge in the
financial crisis, making one-fifth of these loans non-performing, according to central bank  data .  Hungarian banks, which have until Nov. 1 to present their
own solution, are set to miss the deadline, Varga said
yesterday. The Economy Ministry is working “full force” on the
relief plan and is holding constant talks with the central bank,
while the cabinet will discuss the proposals on Oct. 30, he
said.  Falling Shares  OTP, Hungary’s largest lender by assets, have  fallen  9.7
percent since July 16, when the government announced plans for a
fourth program in two years to help foreign-currency borrowers.
OTP gained 0.6 percent to trade at 4,543 forint by 9:20 a.m. in
Budapest.  OTP competes with mostly foreign-owned banks including
 UniCredit (UCG)  SpA,  KBC Groep (KBC)  NV,  Erste (EBS)  Group Bank AG,  Intesa
SanPaolo (ISP)  SpA and  Raiffeisen Bank (RBI)  International AG.  The relief plan, which should cut monthly repayments by 15
percent to 20 percent beginning next year, would spread the
costs between banks, borrowers and the state, Varga said today.  The ministry is seeking a solution based on consensus,
“but if this costs banks even a single forint they won’t be on
board,” Varga said.  Hungarians held 1.81 trillion forint ($8.6 billion) in
foreign-currency mortgages at the end of June and another 1.68
trillion forint in foreign-currency home-equity loans, which can
be used for purchases other than homes, according to central
bank data.  The loans account for 13 percent of the country’s economic
output, according to data compiled by the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development. About two-thirds of Hungarian
mortgages are denominated in Swiss francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  