-- Muni Sales Surge in Push to Beat Pension Drought: Russia Credit
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-10-25T07:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/muni-sales-surge-in-push-to-beat-pension-drought-russia-credit.html
Cities and regions across  Russia ’s
nine time zones are on track to sell the most bonds in four
years, seeking to raise funds before an anticipated slump in
pension-fund cash next year drives up borrowing costs.  Municipal debt sales have reached 128.8 billion rubles
($4.1 billion), 4 billion rubles more than for all of 2012 and
the most since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Yield
premiums over  government bonds  have dropped to 165 basis points
from 203 basis points at the start of the year, according to
UralSib Capital indexes.  Regions from Khakassia, about 4,800 kilometers (2,983
miles) east of Moscow in Siberia, to Stavropol in the South, are
spurring yields from a month ago as they lure investors with
higher returns before year-end. The municipal  bond market  may
lose out as about 580 billion rubles are directed away from
private pension funds and state manager VEB in a stopgap move by
the government to pay current retirees, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Sberbank CIB said this month.  “Pension money always comprised a considerable part of the
demand for sub-federal issues,” Ivan Guminov, who helps manage
14.5 billion rubles at Ronin Trust Management Company, said by
e-mail yesterday. “There’ll be none from the beginning of the
year.”  Sixfold Jump  The sales by municipalities this year are more than eight
times the 1.47 billion zloty ($485 million) of similar
placements in  Poland  as of the end of September, according to
Fitch Ratings data. Russian regions’ total outstanding debt was
1.4 trillion rubles as of Oct. 1, with about a third coming from
Moscow government loans, according to a Finance Ministry
 presentation .  After his May 2012 inauguration, President  Vladimir Putin 
ordered local authorities to raise wages for public-sector
workers and increase spending on health care and education. That
helped boost their deficit almost sixfold to 251 billion rubles
in 2012 compared with 2008, Fitch said in July.  While the premium to  government securities  is lower than at
the start of the year, the extra yield offered by regions has
risen 20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, since Oct. 14,
the UralSib indexes show.  “At the end of the year the regions need money,” Guminov
said. “They’re ready to pay a premium.”  Mordovia, Smolensk  Investors sought almost double the 3 billion rubles of
amortized five-year bonds sold by Mordovia in central Russia at
a 9.25 coupon on Oct. 23. Khakassia set a 8.40 percent coupon on
3 billion rubles of seven-year amortized bonds yesterday, toward
the top end of its 8.15 percent to 8.55 percent range. Smolensk
Region sold 3 billion rubles of bonds with a 9.20 percent yield.  Seven more municipal placements are planned by year-end for
a total 27 billion rubles, Alexey Bezrukavnikov, debt and
capital markets director at Sberbank CIB, said by e-mail today.  The government has proposed barring non-state pension funds
from getting new contributions in 2014 until they re-register as
open joint-stock companies and are accepted into a new insurance
program, while the earmarked money is channeled to distributions
and the state pension fund.  The reduction may be offset by central bank interest-rate
cuts and steps to open the local bond market to foreign
investors, Dmitriy Turmyshev, deputy director of  investment
management  at OAO Gazprombank in Moscow, said yesterday by e-mail.  Foreign Holdings  Russia is encouraging overseas investors to buy its bonds
by allowing non-residents direct settlement of sub-federal and
corporate bonds through systems run by Euroclear Bank SA and
Clearstream International SA. Clearstream started handling
Russia’s municipal bonds on May 31, while Euroclear will
probably begin in the first quarter of next year, Finance
Minister Anton Siluanov said this month.  “The central bank will cut rates, Euroclear will come and
we won’t notice this decline in demand,” Turmyshev said.  Foreign holdings of Russian government bonds advanced to
24.9 percent by Sept. 1 from 3.7 percent at the start of 2012,
central bank data show. Foreigners gained direct access to the
debt through Euroclear and Clearstream in the first quarter.  The yield on the nation’s dollar bonds maturing in March
2030 was little changed at 3.79 percent as of 11:52 a.m. in
Moscow today. The extra yield investors demand to hold Russia’s
dollar debt rather than Treasuries was unchanged at 213,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The country is rated
Baa1 at Moody’s Investors Service, the third-lowest investment-grade.  Municipal issuers like Khakassia, rated two levels below
investment grade at BB by Fitch, are popular with commercial
banks who need to put aside less capital under central  bank
regulations  to hold the notes than for companies’ bonds with the
same rating, Leonid Ignatiev, the head of fixed income research
at BCS Financial Group, said by e-mail.  “Essentially, they are equivalent to tier-1 corporates,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  