-- Unibail-Rodamco Says Nine-Month Revenue Rose on Malls
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-10-25T17:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/unibail-rodamco-says-third-quarter-revenue-rose-on-mall-growth.html
(Corrects to first nine months in first paragraph.)  Unibail-Rodamco SE (UL) ,  Europe ’s largest
publicly traded property owner, said revenue rose about 0.5
percent in the first nine months as new and expanded shopping
malls added to rental income.  Revenue climbed to 1.28 billion euros ($1.77 billion) from
1.22 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
in a statement today. Gross rental income increased to 1.15
billion euros from 1.11 billion euros, including a 7.5 percent
increase at the company’s shopping centers.  Unibail-Rodamco plans to spend about 6.9 billion euros over
the next five years developing shopping malls and office
buildings in Europe. The real estate investment trust doesn’t
need to make acquisitions because its development plans will
boost its retail space in Europe by 27 percent within five
years, CEO Christophe Cuvillier told French newspaper  Les Echos 
earlier this month.  Euro-area  consumer confidence  increased for an 11th month
in October, adding to signs that the 17-nation currency bloc’s
economic recovery is gathering momentum. An index of household
confidence in the countries sharing the euro currency rose to
the highest since July 2011, the European Commission in Brussels
said on Oct. 23.  Unibail said in July that it expected per-share recurring
profit, or earnings excluding changes in asset values and
proceeds from divestments, to rise by at least 5 percent this
year. The company is leasing more space to leisure businesses to
draw customers to its malls.  Unibail rose 15 cents to 194.65 euros in Amsterdam trading
today. The shares have gained about 7 percent this year, valuing
the company at about 19 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  