-- United Hit With Record $1.1 Million Fine in Tarmac Delays
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-10-25T21:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/united-hit-with-record-1-1-million-fine-in-tarmac-delays.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  was
fined $1.1 million by U.S. regulators for stranding passengers
inside planes at  Chicago ’s O’Hare International Airport, the
largest penalty since rules took effect in 2010.  Thirteen United planes with 939 passengers on board were
delayed on the ground for more than the three-hour limit during
thunderstorms that disrupted the second-busiest U.S. airport on
July 13, 2012, the Department of Transportation said. At least
two planes didn’t have working restrooms, according to a consent
order issued today.  “It is unacceptable for passengers to be stranded in
planes on the tarmac for hours on end,” Transportation
Secretary Anthony Foxx said in an e-mailed statement.  A $900,000 fine against AMR Corp.’s American Eagle in 2011,
also for delays at O’Hare, had been the largest penalty for
violating the tarmac rule.  United Continental, while agreeing to pay the fine, had
“no viable options to deplane passengers without risking the
safety of both the passengers and ground staff,” Mary Ryan, a
spokeswoman, said.  United didn’t plan adequately for the situation, didn’t use
the plan it had, or contact airport officials and other carriers
for assistance, the department said. No competitors at O’Hare
violated the three-hour rule that day, it said.  Storms, Lightning  Some delays occurred after the airport had resumed
operations, the DOT said. One flight by a partner airline flying
as United Express was on the tarmac for more than two hours
after the airport reopened for the final time.  Under U.S. rules applying to both domestic and foreign-based carriers, airlines must return to a gate to give
passengers a chance to get off planes that have been stranded on
a tarmac longer than three hours.  “We are committed to complying with the tarmac delay
regulations and we continue to improve our procedures while
maintaining the safety of our customers and coworkers,” Ryan
said.  Thunderstorms with lightning hit O’Hare on July 13, 2012,
shutting portions of the airport grounds four separate times
from 12:50 p.m. until 6:02 p.m., according to the DOT’s
investigation.  With the tarmac closed, United couldn’t get planes in and
out of its gates. O’Hare’s policy is to close the areas between
the gates and the taxiways whenever lightning strikes within 5
miles (8 kilometers) of the airport.  As planes continued to land on the runways, few were
departing and aircraft stacked up on the ground.  “By that time, the number of arrivals exceeding departures
had created untenable gridlock,” the DOT said in the order.  O’Hare Improvements  Of the $1.1 million, United must pay the government
$475,000. The airline was credited with $185,000 in compensation
it made to passengers on the flights. The DOT is allowing the
carrier to spend $440,000 of the penalty to purchase a system to
track planes on the ground at O’Hare, according to the consent
order.  United, with $37.7 billion in  revenue  for the year ending
Sept. 30, won’t see a significant impact from the fine, George Hamlin, who runs Fairfax, Virginia-based Hamlin Transportation
Consulting, said in an interview.  “It’s not pocket change,” Hamlin said. “On the other
hand, look at United’s gross revenue. They didn’t stand on their
head and turn blue.”  United said that 1,156 of its flights that day at O’Hare
were in compliance with U.S. rules, or almost 99 percent of its
operations. Since the incident, the airline has added employees
at O’Hare and bought new stairs for use in getting passengers
off a plane.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Chen in  New York  at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  