-- UPS Beats Estimates on U.S. Package Volume, Higher Prices
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-25T20:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/ups-beats-estimates-on-u-s-package-volumes-higher-rates-1-.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the
world’s largest package-delivery company, posted third-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates after carrying more U.S.
shipments at higher rates.  Net income more than doubled to $1.1 billion, or $1.16 a
share, Atlanta-based UPS said today, affirming a full-year
forecast for per-share earnings in a range of $4.65 to $4.85.
Analysts projected profit of $1.15 a share for the quarter and
$4.75 for 2013, based on estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While UPS reaped less  revenue  from each international
package, in part because of a customer shift to cheaper
shipping, it had a gain on that basis for domestic parcels along
with an increase in U.S. volumes. UPS is considered an economic
bellwether because it moves a variety of goods worldwide.  “International package is struggling with the trade down,
currency and fuel,” David Vernon, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst, said in a report. “But in domestic -- which is 65
percent of the operating income story -- operating margins are
developing more strongly than we had expected.”  Vernon has an outperform rating on the shares.  A rise in  interest rates  contributed to a 3.3 percent
decline in U.S. Next Day Air volume as financial services
companies and banks shipped fewer refinancing documents, while
online sales remained strong, Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn
said in an interview.  Holiday Spending  The company projected growth of 3 percent to 4 percent for
daily U.S. shipments and revenue this quarter. International
volume should rise 3 percent to 5 percent, with high single-digit profit growth and an operating margin of about 16 percent,
UPS said. Currency and the move from high-cost shipping options
will “continue to weigh on yields” in global markets, Kuehn
said today on a conference call.  “Looking to the fourth quarter, although some major
retailers have expressed caution about holiday spending, they
still expect robust online sales,” Kuehn said.  UPS didn’t give a forecast for 2014, and said it expects
currency fluctuations to negatively affect results by as much as
$40 million this quarter.  The shares  increased  1.2 percent to $95.61 at the close in
 New York . The stock has climbed 30 percent this year, topping
the 23 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index while
trailing the 44 percent gain for  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the operator of
the world’s largest cargo airline.  U.S. Revenue  U.S. domestic package  revenue  rose 5 percent to $8.3
billion, buoyed by a 6.6 percent gain in sales for the ground-delivery business. Shipments increased by 2.3 percent, and
revenue from each domestic parcel climbed 1 percent.  The number of deferred international shipments climbed 11
percent as customers extended the shift away from more costly
express deliveries, the company said. Export volumes from Asia
were unchanged, and average revenue per piece from international
packages declined 0.3 percent.  Also weighing on operating profit was a $75 million
negative impact from unfavorable currency rates and higher fuel
prices.  A year earlier , diluted earnings per share were 48 cents
as a result of an after-tax, non-cash charge of $559 million
related to pension liabilities.  The company reduced hours flown domestically and
internationally during the quarter as UPS sought to boost
efficiency and reduce costs.  Cost Savings  UPS said in July it was trimming main aircraft routes out
of  Asia  to an average 7.5 from 8, lowering headcount through
attrition and slower hiring to reduce costs. UPS declined to put
a dollar value on the changes, which partially were made in
response to the shipping tradedown.  FedEx, which operates the world’s biggest cargo airline,
has trimmed capacity between the U.S. and Asia twice and said in
September it would seek more ways to reduce spending. Those
changes are on top of a program begun in 2012 to lower operating
costs by $1.7 billion over three years to combat the move away
from overnight shipments.  UPS said today it expects daily shipping volumes to rise 8
percent during the peak shipping period between Thanksgiving and
Christmas, led by growth in online shopping, according to a
separate statement.  The company expects package pickups on Cyber Monday, Dec.
2, to reach 32 million. Deliveries will peak on Dec. 16 at more
than 34 million packages. UPS also said it would add 55,000
seasonal employees to handle the increase.  Cyber Monday  FedEx on Oct. 23 estimated it would handle more than 85
million shipments the week of Dec. 1-7, up 13 percent from last
year’s busiest week. The Memphis, Tennessee-based shipper, which
plans to hire more than 20,000 seasonal workers this year,
expects its busiest day to be Cyber Monday, Dec. 2, on growing
purchase from online retailers.  Progress is being made in negotiations on about 9 local
supplement and rider provisions to the national Teamsters
contract with UPS that was ratified in June. The company is
operating under an open-ended contract extension until
agreements are reached and the supplements approved. The union
represents 235,000 employees in the small package division.  “The remaining supplements will go out soon, and we are
confident in their approval,” Chief Executive Officer Scott Davis said on the conference call.  In July UPS reached a similar extension with the Teamsters
for the 15,000 employees in its freight unit, which eliminated
the risk of a strike when the current contract was set to expire
on July 31. UPS and the union are in talks for a new agreement
after an earlier accord was rejected in a ratification vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  