-- Vietnam Stocks to Rise 10% by Year-End as Exports Jump, HSC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-25T01:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/vietnam-stocks-to-rise-10-by-year-end-as-exports-jump-hsc-says.html
Vietnam ’s  benchmark  equity index is
poised to rally about 10 percent by year-end as inflation slows
and exports grow, according to the nation’s biggest brokerage.  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  will probably climb to 550 by December, versus
yesterday’s close of 501.17, said Fiachra MacCana, a managing
director and research head at Ho Chi Minh City Securities Corp.
The gauge has already risen 21 percent this year, outperforming
a 17 percent gain in the MSCI Frontier Markets Index.  Vietnam’s inflation rate fell to the slowest pace in 14
months in October, below the median economist estimate in a
Bloomberg survey, data from the  General Statistics Office  showed
yesterday. Exports climbed 16 percent in the first nine months
of 2013 from a year earlier on sales of electronics and mobile
phones. Overseas demand is helping support an economy that’s
been hurt by faltering credit growth, with  Fitch Ratings 
estimating bank bad debt at about 15 percent of loans.  “We are very positive for the next six months,” MacCana
said in a phone interview. “The macro environment looks very
stable with potential upside. Both currency and inflation are
under control while export demand is picking up.”  The  State Bank  of Vietnam devalued the dong by 1 percent in
June, the first time since December 2011. Policy makers won’t
let the currency weaken by more than 3 percent this year as they
seek to prevent the hoarding of dollars, the central bank said
Oct. 8.  Spur Lending  Vietnam’s monetary authority cut its refinancing rate eight
times since the beginning of 2012 to spur lending, while the
legislature voted in June to lower the corporate income tax rate
to help businesses. The government also started an  asset
management company  in July to buy bad debt from banks.  Vietnam Dairy Products Joint-Stock Co. (VNM) , the nation’s
biggest dairy producer, yesterday reported net income grew 19
percent in the first nine months of 2013. Hoa Phat Group,
Vietnam’s biggest steel producer by market value, said on Oct.
22 that net income surged to 1.46 trillion dong in the January-September period, exceeding its full-year target.  “So far, earnings in the stock market look very positive
because of the low  interest rates  and low input costs,” MacCana
said. “A lot of companies have been able to boost profits
significantly.”  Earnings at listed companies may rise as much as 15 percent
this year as the economy expands between 5.4 percent and 5.5
percent, he said. Vietnam’s gross domestic product grew 5.25
percent last year, the slowest pace since at least 2005,
government data showed.  The VN index may reach 600 by the end of the first quarter,
or 20 percent above yesterday’s close, MacCana said. Expenses
for most companies will decline next year and that will help
boost profits by at least 15 percent, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  