-- Vietnam Coffee Premium Seen by Volcafe Sliding After Crop Start
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-25T15:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/vietnam-coffee-premium-seen-by-volcafe-sliding-after-crop-start.html
Buyers of coffee from  Vietnam , the
world’s largest producer of the robusta variety used in instant
coffee and espresso, are paying a smaller premium for their
beans as the harvest starts, according to Volcafe Ltd.  Vietnamese beans for shipment in November and December are
$50 a metric ton above the futures price on NYSE Liffe in
London, the Winterthur, Switzerland-based unit of commodities
trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd. said in a report e-mailed today.
That’s down from $60 a ton last week.  There was “excellent harvest weather this week with good
sunshine and 30 percent of cherries are ripe,” it said. The
harvest is “slowly” starting, with “easing differentials in
the local market as a few players try to liquidate their Ho Chi
Minh City stock.” Differentials refer to a discount obtained or
a premium paid for physical coffee in relation to futures.  Vietnam started harvesting its 2013-14 crop this month and
output will be a record 29 million bags, according to Macquarie
Group Ltd. Raw-materials trader  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  expects
about 28 million bags. Robusta coffee fell 7.7 percent last
month on rising supplies from the Southeast Asian nation. That
was the biggest monthly drop since October 2012.  There’s “good interest for both nearby shipments and new
crop,” Volcafe said. Buyers were seeking to obtain discounts
for beans from the new crop, according to the report.  In  Indonesia , the third-biggest producer, bean deliveries
from farms totaled 2,000 tons, according to the report. That
compares with 2,000 to 2,500 tons last week. Farmers there
started harvesting their 2013-14 crop in April.  Beans from Indonesia for shipment in November and December
were at a premium of $170 a ton to the exchange price, unchanged
from last week, Volcafe said. The export market is at a
“standstill” as premiums remain “too high” compared with the
international market and buyers focus on Vietnam, it said.  The “local industry has stopped buying coffee for the
moment and only a few local exporters still active,” Volcafe
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  