-- Volvo Posts Surprise Quarterly Profit Drop on Krona Gain
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-10-25T11:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/volvo-profit-misses-estimates-on-gains-in-swedish-krona.html
Volvo AB (VOLVA)  reported a surprise drop in
operating profit, sending the stock down the most in a year, as
a strengthening krona burdened earnings at the world’s second-biggest truckmaker.  Earnings before interest and taxes fell 18 percent to 2.4
billion kronor ($380 million) from 2.92 billion kronor a year
earlier, Gothenburg, Sweden-based Volvo said in a statement
today. Profit was less than the 3.15 billion-krona average of 12
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  In response to the declining profit, Volvo outlined plans
to eliminate 2,000 administrative  jobs , or 1.8 percent of its
workforce, under a program announced in September to generate
annual cost savings of 4 billion kronor through 2015. Volvo
reported 7.5 percent growth in third-quarter truck orders,
lagging behind jumps of 29 percent at local competitor  Scania AB (SCVB) 
and 33 percent at industry leader  Daimler AG. (DAI)   Volvo is “unlikely to be forgiven for the miss this time,
especially as it looks like they are trailing peers in terms of
orders and the margin improvement plan has shifted two years to
the right,”  David Arnold , a London-based industry specialist at
 Barclays Capital , said today in a report to clients.  Third-quarter net income fell 0.9 percent to 1.39 billion
kronor, Volvo said. Sales slumped 4.9 percent to 64.9 billion
kronor. A 1 percent drop in truck-division revenue contrasted
with a 4.1 percent increase in deliveries to 43,248 vehicles.
Orders amounted to 44,224 trucks.  Stock Drops  Volvo  fell  as much as 7.4 percent, the steepest intraday
drop since Oct. 24, 2012, and was trading down 6.3 percent at
88.45 kronor at 1:12 p.m. in Stockholm. That pushed the shares
to a 0.4 percent  decline  this year, valuing the truckmaker at
186.3 billion kronor.  The company’s truck brands include Volvo and Renault in
 Europe , Mack in  North America  and UD in Asia. Currency effects
reduced third-quarter operating profit by 1.07 billion kronor,
Volvo said.  The Argentinian peso dropped 21 percent against the krona
in the 12 months through Sept. 30, and the Brazilian real fell
11 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yen
plunged 22 percent and the dollar declined 2.3 percent.  Gains by the krona and the euro hurt third-quarter sales
and profit across Europe’s manufacturing sector, including at
Soedertaelje-based Scania and French carmaker  Renault SA (RNO) , the
former owner of the namesake heavy-vehicle brand now held by
Volvo.  Carmaker Renault  Renault’s revenue missed analyst estimates as currency
drops in  South America  and  Russia  versus the euro more than
offset global delivery gains and higher pricing in Europe.
Gothenburg-based SKF AB, the world’s biggest maker of bearings,
is looking at buying more materials locally after currency
shifts hurt earnings in the period by 190 million kronor.
Stockholm-based  Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the second-largest producer of
home appliances, said today that a cost-cut program is being
widened, potentially affecting 2,000 employees.  Volvo’s group workforce totaled 112,644 people at the end
of September, including 17,216 temporary employees and
consultants, the company said in its earnings report. The job
cuts will be focused on the group’s main locations in the U.S.,
 Sweden ,  France  and  Japan , said Karin Wik, a spokeswoman.  Production Shift  The company said on Oct. 16 that it will scale back
production in Europe as part of the earnings-improvement
project, shifting manufacturing among plants in different
countries and affecting another 900 employees, including 700 in
Sweden. Volvo hasn’t specified whether those workers will be
dropped or transferred, saying it’s in talks with unions on
their future.  The reorganization is “the largest change in the European
manufacturing system ever done” by Volvo, Chief Executive
Officer Olof Persson said today at a Gothenburg press
conference. Business in the quarter was “tough,” he said. The
efficiency program is starting to show its first positive
effects, with research and development spending and variable
costs per truck declining, he said.  Earnings were held back by spending on new models and by
simultaneous production of old and new generations of vehicles,
Volvo said. The FH product line was updated starting last year,
and new versions of Renault trucks were presented in June.
During the third quarter, UD began production in Bangkok of the
Quester, the brand’s first model developed and produced in
Southeast  Asia  specifically for that region.  The phase-in of production to only new models will be
completed in the first quarter of 2014 at the Volvo brand and by
mid-year at the Renault division, Persson said.  Scania said on Oct. 23 that third-quarter orders and
deliveries were helped by truck purchases in Europe in advance
of pollution regulations taking effect in 2014. Net income fell
because of the krona’s gain and vehicle-price pressure.
Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler said its truck division’s Ebit
in the period rose 4 percent as deliveries gained because of the
so-called pre-buying in Europe and a market recovery in Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  