-- Wall Street Skips Moody’s as CMBS Standards Slip: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-10-25T10:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/wall-street-skips-moody-s-as-cmbs-standards-slip-credit-markets.html
Wall Street banks that package
commercial mortgages into bonds are forgoing a ranking from
Moody’s Investors Service on the riskier portions of the deals,
a sign the credit grader isn’t willing to stamp the debt
investment-grade amid deteriorating underwriting standards.  Moody’s didn’t grade the lower-ranking debt in 9 of the 14
commercial-mortgage bond transactions it’s rated since mid-July,
according to Jefferies Group LLC.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Cantor
Fitzgerald LP and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are selling a $1 billion transaction
this week that doesn’t carry a Moody’s designation for a $64.3
million portion that  Fitch Ratings  and Kroll Bond Rating Agency
ranked the lowest level of investment grade, said two people
with knowledge of the deal.  Moody’s absence from the riskier securities in commercial-mortgage deals suggests the New York-based firm is taking a
harsher view of the quality of some new loans as issuance surges
in the $550 billion market, Jefferies analysts led by Lisa Pendergast said in a report last week. Credit Suisse Group AG’s
forecast for $70 billion of offerings this year would be the
most since issuance peaked at $232 billion in 2007.  “We have been observing a degradation in  credit quality 
for some time” in the CMBS market, said Stuart Lippman, the
chief investment officer and founder of hedge-fund firm TIG
Advisors’s securitized-assets fund. “In February, we decided
new issuance wasn’t priced appropriately for us to continue to
participate.”  Loss Shields  Tom Lemmon, a spokesman for Moody’s, declined to comment on
the deals or on its standards, as did representatives for Fitch,
Deutsche Bank, Cantor and UBS. Moody’s, which has rated 29
transactions this year, graded the rest of the deal being
marketed by those firms, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t public.  Moody’s absence from the deal portions “is a testament to
the fact that the market is accepting other opinions,” Kim Diamond, the head of structured finance at Kroll, said in a
telephone interview.  Commercial-mortgage bond deals can have 10 or more classes
that span the rating spectrum from AAA to BB, drawing investors
with differing risk appetites ranging from insurance companies
to hedge funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. As much
as 70 percent of the transactions are given top grades, with the
bottom classes the first to absorb losses when borrowers
default.  ‘Steadily Deteriorated’  Investment-grade ratings are a prerequisite for many
investors, according to Lippman, who ran securitized secondary
debt trading at UBS until 2007.  “Typically insurance companies and traditional money
managers are more restricted, and ratings can often determine
the depth of demand,” he said. “Although some discredit the
rating agencies, if their role wasn’t of value, then issuers
wouldn’t pay to have them rate deals.”  Looser lending standards on new offerings are a headwind in
the commercial-mortgage  bond market , JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts said in an Oct. 18 report. Underwriting has “steadily
deteriorated” in 2013, according to the New York-based analysts
led by Ed Reardon.  Deferred Payments  Loans that allow borrowers to defer principal payments for
at least part of the term increased to an average 55 percent of
mortgages packaged into deals this month, from 41 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2012, according to data from Bank of America
Corp. That means borrowers build less equity in the property,
potentially making it more difficult to refinance.  Delinquencies on all commercial mortgages contained in
bonds are falling after surging to records last year, helping
fuel demand for the debt. Payments more than 30 days late
declined 23 basis points to 9.93 percent this month, according
to Morgan Stanley.  Wall Street banks have arranged $61 billion in commercial-mortgage bond offerings this year, up from about $41 billion in
all of 2012, Bloomberg data show. Top-ranked securities are
yielding 131 basis points more than Treasuries, down from a 2013
high of 143 basis points on July 3, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. The debt has returned 0.7
percent this month.  Struggling Malls  “In certain instances there is a bit of credit creep,”
Kroll’s Diamond said. “Then you will have a market dislocation
of some sort like widening spreads and the loan originators will
retrench a bit. As a result, the next wave of deals will have
better credit characteristics than the transactions that came
before.”  Moody’s said last year it was altering the way it assesses
weaker shopping malls contained in CMBS deals, citing a growing
number of properties that may struggle to survive.  One factor on which Moody’s takes a stricter view than
other rating companies is concentration risk, meaning that if
the deal isn’t diversified it will require greater credit
protection even if the loans are otherwise conservative,
according to a banker who structures the deals and asked not to
be identified because talks with the ratings companies are
private.  “Moody’s lack of participation in some more recent deals
suggests that perhaps they see some of the risks we see,” said
TIG’s Lippman.  Loan Warning  Elsewhere in credit markets, federal banking regulators in
the U.S. are recommending banks bolster underwriting standards
for leveraged commercial loans as borrowing of the high-risk
debt approaches levels not seen since before the financial
crisis. Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. raised $1.5 billion in its
first bond offering in about 15 months. The market for
commercial paper in the U.S. expanded by the most in 11 months.  A measure of the health of U.S. financial conditions that
declines as the environment weakens rose. The  Bloomberg U.S.
Financial Conditions Index (BFCIUS) , which combines everything from
money-market rates to yields on government and corporate bonds
to volatility in equities, increased 0.02 to 1.52. The index
reached 1.57 on Oct. 21, the highest in data dating back to
January 1994.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.2 basis point to
72.2 basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
The measure had dropped on Oct. 22 to the least since November
2007 in data that adjust for the effects of the market’s shift
to a new version of the index in September.  European Index  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased one basis point to 87 basis
points at 11:55 a.m. in  London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the
Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers
outside  Japan  was little changed at 135.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The  Federal Reserve  and the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency sent letters to some of the biggest banks asking
them to avoid originating loans that can be considered
“criticized,” or debt classified by regulatory agencies as
having some deficiency that may result in a loss, according to
people with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the letters were private. Forty-two percent
of leveraged loans were placed in that category this year.  Loans Index  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
was unchanged at 97.75 cents on the dollar, holding at the
highest in a month. The measure, which tracks the 100 largest
dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has returned 3.75
percent this year.  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk bonds are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at S&P.  Bonds of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  were the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers
yesterday, accounting for 3.7 percent of the volume of dealer
trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The New York-based telephone carrier raised $49 billion on Sept.
11 in the largest corporate  bond issue  ever.  Bristol-Myers Squibb’s issued $500 million each of 4.5
percent bonds due in March 2044 that yield 92 basis points more
than similar-maturity Treasuries; 3.25 percent, 10-year
securities that pay a spread of 87 basis points; and 1.75
percent notes due March 2019 and paying 55 more than benchmarks,
Bloomberg data show. The maker of the blood thinner Plavix last
sold debt in July 2012 with a $2 billion offering.  Commercial Paper  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
climbed $28.2 billion to $1.062 trillion outstanding in the week
ended Oct. 23, the Fed said yesterday. That’s the biggest rise
since the week ended last Nov. 21.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as payroll
and rent.  In  emerging markets , relative yields narrowed 2 basis
points to 327 basis points, or 3.27 percentage points, according
to  JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index . The measure has averaged 312.9
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  