-- Weitz to Yacktman Hold Cash as Managers Find Few Bargains
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-10-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/weitz-to-yacktman-hold-cash-as-managers-find-few-bargains.html
Wally Weitz, the mutual-fund manager
who beat 90 percent of rivals in the past five years by buying
stocks he deemed cheap, says bargains are so scarce these days
that he’s letting his cash holdings swell.  “It’s more fun to be finding great new ideas,” Weitz,
whose $1.1 billion  Weitz Value Fund (WVALX)  had 29 percent of assets in
cash and Treasury bills as of Sept. 30, said in a telephone
interview from Omaha,  Nebraska . “But  we take  what the market
gives us, and right now it is not giving us anything.”  Weitz, whose cash allocation is close to the highest it’s
been in his three-decade career, joins peers  Donald Yacktman  and
Charles de Vaulx in calling bargains elusive with stocks near
record highs. They’re willing to sacrifice top performance for
the safety of cash as stocks rally for a fourth year in five.  The mutual-fund managers’ comments echo private-equity
executives  Leon Black  and  Wesley Edens , who say steep prices
make this a seller’s market. Hedge-fund manager Seth Klarman is
returning some client capital to keep assets in check.  The average amount of cash in U.S. equity funds increased
to 5 percent as of Aug. 31 from 3.7 percent a year earlier,
according to data from Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  That’s
even as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose  23 percent in 2013
after reaching new  peaks  in the wake of last week’s
congressional agreement to end the partial U.S. government
shutdown.  ‘Run Stocks’  Some fund investors frown upon equity managers who sit on
large piles of cash, saying they prefer that stock pickers stay
off the sidelines.  “We hire them to run stocks, not time the market,”
Richard Charlton, chairman of Boston-based NEPC LLC, said in a
telephone interview. Charlton’s firm advises clients with $748
billion in assets.  Value managers, who look for stocks that are cheap compared
with a company’s earnings prospects, have built up cash in
previous periods, including the run-up to the financial crisis
in 2007 and 2008, said  Russel Kinnel , director of mutual-fund
research at Morningstar. U.S. value funds returned an average of
26 percent this year through Oct. 23, according to Morningstar,
compared with 28 percent for growth funds, whose managers try to
identify companies that will boost sales and earnings faster
than competitors.  Most of the cash-heavy managers say their decisions are
based on individual stock prices, not any attempt to call a
market top.  Drop Needed  “We will need prices to be down 15 to 20 percent for us to
put most of our cash to work,” De Vaulx, co-manager of the $9.2
billion  IVA Worldwide Fund (IVWAX) , said in a telephone interview from
 New York , where International Value Advisers LLC is based. The
fund, which outperformed 54 percent of competitors in the past
five years, had 31 percent of assets in cash and equivalents as
of Sept. 30, according to its website.  The situation was different at the depths of the global
financial crisis. Weitz’s Value Fund had 7.8 percent in cash at
the end of 2008,  regulatory filings  show.  “It was a wonderful time,” he said in the interview.
“There was so much to buy.”  The S&P 500 Index, after sinking to a 12-year low of 676.53
in March 2009, has soared above 1,750. The U.S. benchmark index
traded at a  price/earnings ratio  of about 11 at the bottom.
Today, the ratio is 17.  As Weitz’s cash pile grew while markets rallied, his fund
beat 52 percent of peers this year. It outperformed 83 percent
in the past three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. His biggest holding, Laval, Quebec-based  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) , has almost doubled in U.S.
trading.  ‘Difficult Time’  Yacktman, 72, president of Austin, Texas-based Yacktman
Asset Management Co., trailed 60 percent of rivals this year and
82 percent in 2012 at his $11.4 billion Yacktman Focused Fund,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund, whose cash
level rose to 21 percent as of Sept. 30 from 1.4 percent at the
end of 2008, bested 92 percent of competitors in the past five
years.  “We are having a more difficult time finding bargains,”
Yacktman said in an e-mail.  Cash is a heavier burden for some managers.  Eric Cinnamond beat 99 percent of his rivals at the
 Intrepid Small Cap Fund (ICMAX)  in the almost five years through August
2010 that he ran the fund, Morningstar data show. His current
fund, the $696 million  Aston/River Road Independent Value Fund (ARIVX) ,
trails 99 percent of its competition this year as cash and
equivalents have grown to 64 percent of assets, according to the
fund’s website and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cinnamond, Wiggins  “If we can’t find value we just don’t invest,” Cinnamond,
42, a vice president at Louisville, Kentucky-based River Road
Asset Management LLC, said in a telephone interview. He called
small-cap stocks “very expensive” and said investors are
mistaken to value companies based on unsustainable profit
margins.  Jayme Wiggins, his successor at the $711 million Intrepid
Small Cap, is in similar straits. The fund, which had almost 59
percent of its holdings in cash as of Sept. 30, underperformed
97 percent of rivals in the past three years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We can’t manufacture a good idea,” Wiggins told his
shareholders in an April letter.  Wiggins, a vice president at Jacksonville Beach, Florida-based Intrepid Capital Management Inc., said he is suspicious of
stock prices lifted by the  Federal Reserve ’s low interest-rate
policies. “We are not speculating by hopping on the Fed’s
market bandwagon,” he wrote.  ‘Manipulated’ Environment  Steven Romick, managing partner at Los Angeles-based First
Pacific Advisors LLC, took a similar stance in his second-quarter letter to shareholders of the $14.1 billion  FPA Crescent
Fund. (FPACX)   “We find it difficult to invest in an environment that
seems manipulated to engineer higher asset prices regardless of
business fundamentals,” Romick wrote.  The fund, which outperformed 68 percent of rivals over the
past three years, had 40 percent of its assets in cash and
short-term securities as of Sept. 30, according to  FPA’s
website .  “Some managers have a good record of building up cash at
the right time,” said Steven Roge, a  money manager  with
Bohemia, New York-based R.W. Roge & Co., which oversees $200
million. “Romick is one of them.”  The Crescent Fund beat 97 percent of peers in the 2008  bear
market , when the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  tumbled 38 percent. The fund had
more than a third of its assets in cash equivalents as of March
31 that year, filings show.  Baupost Group  Klarman, 56, the value-oriented investor who founded the
$29 billion Boston-based Baupost Group LLC, has long advocated
holding cash when markets are pricey and bargains scarce.  The manager, who had 30 percent to 35 percent of his assets
in cash as of mid-September, has told investors he will return
some money at the end of the year, Diana DeSocio, a spokeswoman,
wrote in an e-mail. Klarman has previously pledged to keep
Baupost’s assets at $20 billion to $25 billion.  “It’s a difficult environment to find really attractive
things when the markets are robust as they are,” Edens, head of
the $14.3 billion private-equity business at New York-based
 Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , told investors on a conference
call in August.  “It is a fabulous environment to be selling,” Black, 62,
chief executive officer at  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , said at
an investment conference in April. “We’re selling everything
that is not nailed down.”  Private-equity managers tend to focus on assets they
consider undervalued or distressed, holding back from deals or
mainly selling when values become elevated.  ‘Dangerous Place’  Apollo Global, based in New York, oversaw $113 billion as
of June 30. The S&P 500 Index has climbed 9.7 percent since
Black’s comments.  For now, the mutual-fund managers holding cash are standing
firm.  “Our performance has been rough,” Intrepid’s Wiggins said
in a telephone interview. “But we think small-cap stocks are a
dangerous place to invest.”  “We are wrong right now,” said River Road’s Cinnamond.
“It always feels this way at the peaks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  