-- Twitter Pitch to IPO Investors Hinges on Potential for Growth
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/twitter-pitch-to-ipo-investors-hinges-on-future-growth-potential.html
Twitter Inc. (TWTR)  will make the case to
potential investors in its initial public offering that it needs
to keep spending to grow, and profit will come once it can reap
the benefits of those investments.  “The magnitude of our investments has limited our
margins,” Chief Financial Officer Mike Gupta said in a video
posted yesterday to accompany the investor  road show , which
begins next week and will take Gupta and Chief Executive Officer
 Dick Costolo  from their  San Francisco  home to cities including
 New York , Denver, and  Chicago . “In the near term we will
continue to invest aggressively to capture this opportunity and
position ourselves for long-term success.”  Gupta and Costolo met yesterday in New York with IPO
underwriters  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Morgan Stanley and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to rehearse their presentation, people with
knowledge of the plans said. At JPMorgan’s headquarters on New
York’s Park Avenue, two banners with the company’s logo and the
words “Twitter IPO 2013” adorned the lobby.  Twitter is seeking to raise as much as $1.4 billion in the
IPO that would value it as high as $10.9 billion. It’s planning
to sell 70 million shares -- or a 13 percent stake -- at $17 to
$20 each. The company, which has more than 230 million users
compared with  Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  more than 1 billion, is still
unprofitable, as it spends to improve its advertising products
and grow its user base in international markets.  Profit Message  The company will point toward an adjusted measure of
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
to signal its profitability, Gupta said in the presentation. The
adjusted Ebitda excludes the effects of stock-based compensation
and investments in servers, leases and networking equipment to
support the company’s expansion, the company’s filing showed.  “We believe we have the ability to significantly expand
our margins as we see returns on our investments,” Gupta said.
Gross margins can reach the high 70 percent range, while
adjusted Ebitda could reach 40 percent, he said.  Adjusted Ebitda was $9.3 million in the quarter ended Sept.
30, compared with $2.9 million a year earlier. Without any
adjustment to exclude expenses, the company’s loss expanded to
$64.6 million in the quarter from $21.6 million a year earlier.  Traveling Pitch  Twitter will hold meetings in New York on Tuesday and
Wednesday of next week,  Boston  on Thursday, and Chicago on
Friday, according to a schedule obtained by Bloomberg. The
following week it will visit investors in San Francisco on Nov.
4, and  Los Angeles  the next day, before ending up back in New
York on Nov. 6, the same day the final pricing of the shares is
scheduled. Trading is expected to start the next day.  In the presentation video, which was posted on the website
retailroadshow.com, Costolo pitches the reach of Twitter posts,
or tweets, saying that 44 percent of Americans hear about them
outside of the site -- through TV channels or news stories.  “Broadcasters have increasingly found that Twitter is a
perfect complement to TV as a way to drive engagement,” he
said.  There are more than 500 million tweets each day now,
compared with  2 million  per day in January 2009, the company has
said. The company makes money as advertisers pay to promote
their tweets to a wider base of users, based on their interests.
Advertisers are paying for tweets that get users to download
mobile applications, buy products or indicate their interest in
a company or cause, Costolo said.  Relative Value  Twitter is seeking a valuation of 9.1 times projected 2014
sales of $1.2 billion, according to data released in its  filing 
and analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 29 percent
cheaper than the 12.8 times 2014 sales that Facebook Inc. trades
at, and 31 percent lower than  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ’s multiple of 13.2
times sales, the data show.  The company’s top shareholders are keeping their shares,
and after the offering co-founder Evan Williams will hold more
than a 10 percent stake, the filing shows. He’s the single-biggest individual stockholder. Affiliates of Rizvi Traverse
Management LLC will hold almost a 16 percent stake valued at
$1.7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  