-- Won Posts Worst Week Since August Amid Intervention Speculation
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-25T07:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/won-set-for-worst-week-in-two-months-on-suspected-intervention.html
South Korea ’s won completed its
worst week since August amid speculation authorities intervened
to control the currency’s recent gains.  Government bonds  rose.  The currency fell from a two-year high yesterday after
officials warned they would act to counter any “herd
behavior.” Finance Ministry official Kim Seong Wook declined to
comment when asked about another sudden decline in the won
today. Global funds also sold more South Korean shares than they
bought today, snapping a record 40-day streak of net purchases,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The won weakened 0.1 percent this week, the most since the
period ended Aug. 23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency declined 0.1 percent to 1,062.06 per dollar in
 Seoul  today, following a 0.5 percent fall yesterday.  “Authorities may have stepped into the market today,
although the intensity was not as strong as yesterday’s
intervention,” Park Jung Hyun, a currency trader at Hana Bank
in Seoul, said by phone. “Foreign investors started to sell
stocks after a record streak of inflows, and the intervention
risk may have contributed to that.”  The won has surged 7.5 percent against the dollar since the
end of June, the biggest gain among Asian currencies. Overseas
investors pumped some $12.8 billion into South Korean stocks
since Aug. 22 through yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The won’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
gained three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.96
percent today. The gauge fell eight basis points this week.  Excessive Rise  “The authorities finally stepped into the market
yesterday,” Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst at Samsung
Futures Inc., wrote in a research note today. Traders estimated
the intervention size at as much as $2 billion, she wrote.  Ryoo Sang Dai, director general at the Bank of  Korea ’s
international department, declined to comment yesterday on
whether authorities had intervened or on the size of the
suspected action. The authorities are closely watching the
currency’s rise and will act to promote stability and to curb
excessive herd behavior, Ryoo said by phone.  South Korea’s economy expanded 1.1 percent in the three
months through September from the previous quarter, exceeding
the median 0.8 percent estimate of 15 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . A strong won hurts the nation’s exports, which
account for about half of gross domestic product.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2016 fell three basis points this week and one basis point
today to 2.8 percent, according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  