-- World Bank Cuts Growth Forecast for Lebanon Amid Refugee Crisis
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-10-25T13:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/world-bank-cuts-growth-forecast-for-lebanon-amid-refugee-crisis.html
The World Bank lowered its forecast
for economic growth in Lebanon this year to 1.5 percent, citing
political uncertainty and the spillover from neighboring  Syria ’s
civil war.  The cost of the Syrian conflict to Lebanon is estimated at
$2.6 billion, the bank said in the summary of its Lebanon
Economic Monitor, a biannual publication that will be released
in full on Oct. 31. Cumulative losses to the nation’s economic
activity could reach $7.5 billion by end of next year. The bank
estimated  2.3 percent  expansion in its previous report.  The war in Syria has triggered a flood of hundreds of
thousands of refugees into Lebanon, and caused sporadic clashes
between Sunni Muslim opponents of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his supporters in the northern Lebanese city of
Tripoli and other areas.  The conflict, which started in March 2011, “is having a
large, negative and rapidly growing impact on Lebanon’s economy,
its social fabric and its public services,” the World Bank said
in its report.  “Public services are under pressure given the sudden and
large increase in demand arising from the Syrian refugee
influx,” according to the report. “Across all core public
services, the surge in demand is currently being partly met
through a decline in public service access and quality.”  Lebanon, a country of more than 4 million people, is
hosting at least 1.2 million Syrians, more than half of them
refugees. Increased spending to provide displaced Syrians with
health and education services has strained Lebanon’s budget,
Caretaker Finance Minister Mohammad Safadi said in  Washington 
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  