-- WTI Oil Swings, Poised for Biggest Weekly Loss Since June
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-10-25T12:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/wti-oil-swings-poised-for-biggest-weekly-loss-since-june.html
West Texas Intermediate swung
between gains and losses as it headed for the biggest weekly
decline since June, amid speculation that record U.S. crude
production will further bolster stockpiles.  Futures traded in a 66 cents-a-barrel range in New York
after gaining for the first time in four days yesterday.
Government data this week showed the U.S. pumped crude at the
 fastest rate  since 1989, while stockpiles rose during the U.S.
fall refinery maintenance season to the highest level since
June. Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, is
reducing shipments in response to a possible surplus in supply,
according to data from a tanker tracker yesterday.  “Lower crude oil processing led to rising U.S. crude oil
inventories, which pushed prices lower in recent days,” said
 Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“Processing rates must almost reach summer peak levels to drain
inventories again, given rising supplies.”  WTI for December delivery was at $97.38 a barrel on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, up 27 cents, at 1:24 p.m. London time.
The contract climbed as much as 54 cents in intraday trading and
fell as much as 12 cents, the narrowest range this month, so
far. The volume of all futures traded was about 44 percent less
than the 100-day average. Prices eased 3.7 percent this week,
poised for a third weekly decline.  Brent for December settlement fell 6 cents to $106.93 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Grangemouth Refinery  Ineos Group Holdings SA announced today it will immediately
reopen  Scotland ’s Grangemouth petrochemical site and start up
the adjacent refinery after forging a deal with the unionized
workforce. The site provides steam and power to a facility that
processes Forties crude from a North Sea pipeline, which had
continued to operate throughout this month’s dispute.  U.S. crude production rose to 7.9 million barrels a day in
the week ended Oct. 18, the most since March 1989, according to
data from the Energy Information Administration on Oct. 23.
Stockpiles expanded for a fifth week to 379.8 million barrels,
the Energy Department’s statistical unit said.  The U.S., the world’s biggest oil consumer, will account
for about 21 percent of global demand this year, almost double
 China ’s share, according to forecasts from the International
Energy Agency.  Saudi Arabia  Saudi Arabia’s crude exports are “starting to go down” as
the largest member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries sought to avoid a possible year-end supply glut,
according to Roy Mason, the founder of Oil Movements. Shipments
from the group, excluding Angola and  Ecuador , will slide 0.5
percent to 23.8 million barrels a day in the four weeks to Nov.
9, according to the Halifax, England-based tanker-tracking
consultant.  WTI may decline next week as U.S. oil supplies gain amid
reduced demand, according to Bloomberg News survey. Twenty-one
of 31 analysts and traders, or 68 percent, forecast futures will
drop through Nov. 1. Five respondents, or 16 percent, predicted
an increase and five estimated no change. Last week, 61 percent
in the survey said prices would fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  