-- Hyde Pierce Charms in ‘Landing’; Parker’s ‘Snow’: Stage
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/hyde-pierce-charms-in-landing-parker-s-snow-stage.html
You know John Kander as the composer
of such high octane anthems as “ New York , New York” and “All
That Jazz.”  With “The Landing,” an elegant triptych of shows at the
 Vineyard Theatre  that runs well under two hours, his tone is
elegiac. He’s in a metaphysical, not New York, frame of mind.  The evening starts with “Andra,” a coming-of-age tale
about a boy with a lonely mother. He strikes up a friendship
with a good-looking, star-gazing carpenter (the title refers to
the constellation Andromeda) who gives him a spyglass. Mistake.  “The Brick,” in the center of the show, gets loopy as a
woman in love with movies and the past orders a souvenir of the
St. Valentine’s Day Massacre online. That brick comes dancingly
alive. The woman and her nephew start speaking gangsterese in
the TV’s blue light.  In the final story, “The Landing,” a loving gay couple
adopt what appears to be the perfect child and take an
unanticipated journey.  It might all be artily elliptical were it not for Walter
Bobbie’s direction of a superb cast that includes Julia Murney
in the women’s parts, Frankie Seratch as the boy, Paul Anthony
Stewart in several male parts and, best of all, David Hyde Pierce as narrator, gangster and husband.  Sly Warmth  Hyde Pierce brings sly warmth and a wounded power to these
sketches, which unfold like Ann Beattie short stories.  They happen to have been written by his gifted nephew, Greg
Pierce, who had a major debut last year with “Slowgirl.” He
writes with concision and delicacy.  But it’s Kander’s music that’s the big reveal here. Unlike
the legendary Broadway scores he wrote with his late partner
Fred Ebb (“Cabaret,” “Chicago”), the music for “The
Landing” is impressionistic, closer to Debussy than to  Richard
Rodgers .  Kander is 86 and, familiar as his music is, we’re still
getting to know him.  Through Nov. 24 at the Vineyard Theatre, 108 E. 15th St.
Information: +1-212-353-0303;  http://www.vineyardtheatre.org .
Rating: ***1/2  ‘Snow Geese’  On Broadway, “ Weeds ” star Mary-Louise Parker returns with
an engaging, sensuous performance in the world premiere of Sharr
White’s “The Snow Geese.”  As the title suggests, this play by the writer of the
extraordinary “The Other Place,” is Chekhovian in look, if not
tone.  The family lodge near Syracuse, New York in 1917 is well-populated. Elizabeth Gaesling (Parker) is the widowed mother of
steadfast Arnold (Brian Cross) and his flamboyant, favored
brother Duncan (Evan Jonigkeit).  Also at home: Elizabeth’s sister Clarissa (Victoria Clark)
and German husband Max (Danny Burstein), as well as the maid
(Jessica Love), a recent emigre from Ukraine.  As the pampered Duncan is heading off to war, Arnold has
discovered that his father left the family deep in debt, a
reality Elizabeth is ill-equipped to comprehend.  Staged by  Daniel Sullivan  and played in on John Lee
Beatty’s bosky set, “The Snow Geese” is derivative of other
works about favored children and the damage done by the parents
who dote on them.  Still, the scenes in which Duncan and Max duke it out for
acceptance and come to a wrenching reconciliation are touching.
And Parker is translucent as a woman subsumed by her own
passions -- and remorse.  Through Dec. 15 at the Friedman Theatre, 261 W. 47th St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating:
***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 