-- Yellen to Meet Senators as Panel Sets November Hearing
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2013-10-25T20:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/yellen-nomination-said-to-face-expected-delay-by-paul.html
Janet Yellen ’s nomination to head
the  Federal Reserve  will be considered by a Senate committee
early next month, a panel aide said, as the candidate prepares
for private meetings with lawmakers starting next week.  Yellen’s nomination may be challenged by U.S. Senator Rand Paul, who is considering placing a hold as he seeks a vote on
legislation that would require regular public audits of the
Fed’s operations, according to an aide in the lawmaker’s office.  A hold probably won’t imperil her nomination. White House
spokesman Josh Earnest today said the president looks forward to
swift confirmation. A hold might spur several days of debate and
means 60 votes would be needed to advance the nomination.  “This was expected,”  Jaret Seiberg , a senior policy
analyst with Guggenheim Securities LLC’s Washington Research
Group, said today in a note to clients. “It is very similar to
a filibuster. And like a filibuster it can be overturned with 60
votes.”  Starting Oct. 31, when New Jersey Democrat Cory Booker is
sworn in to replace the late  Frank Lautenberg , Democrats will
have a 55-45 seat Senate majority, meaning at least five
Republicans are needed to reach the 60-vote threshold.  President  Barack Obama  chose Yellen, 67, to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as chairman of the Fed Board of Governors this month.
The White House sent Yellen’s nomination to the Senate earlier
this month.  “Next week, she will begin visiting with individual
senators on the Hill,” Earnest told reporters on Air Force One
en route to  New York  City. “As the president said when he
nominated her earlier this month, she is exceptionally well
qualified for this role.”  November Hearing  The Senate Banking Committee received some of Yellen’s
nomination paperwork and meetings with the members are being
scheduled, according to a committee aide who requested anonymity
to discuss the planning. A hearing probably will be held in
November, according to the aide.  Paul would use the hold to seek a vote on his legislation
to require regular audits of Fed finances, according to the
aide, who requested anonymity to talk about plans before an
announcement. The bill would cover all  Fed operations , including
deliberations over changes to the benchmark  interest rate  and
its bond-purchasing programs known as QE for quantitative
easing.  “The American people deserve transparency from the Federal
Reserve and the federal government as a whole,” Paul said in a
statement today that didn’t directly address holding up Yellen’s
nomination.  Bernanke has repeatedly said the legislation would open up
Fed policy making to political pressure and put the central
bank’s independence at risk. A companion bill passed the House
of Representatives last year with a vote of 327-98.  Paul’s bill has 25 co-sponsors in the Senate. One of those,
 Mark Begich  of Alaska, is a Democrat.  A hold is an informal device used in the Senate to provide
extra time for negotiation or review of documents before a vote.  Paul’s bill is S. 209.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  