-- Yue Xiu Offers $1.5 Billion for 75% of Chong Hing Bank
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-26T04:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/yue-xiu-bids-1-5-billion-for-75-of-hong-kong-s-chong-hing-bank.html
Yue Xiu Group bid HK$11.6 billion
($1.5 billion) for 75 percent of  Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111) , seeking a
foothold in Hong Kong as the banking hub’s role in cross-border
financing expands.  Yue Xiu, a trading arm for the government of the southern
Chinese city of Guangzhou, is offering HK$35.69 for each of the
326.25 million Chong Hing shares it’s seeking, according to a
joint statement yesterday. That’s a 4.6 percent discount to the
stock’s last price on Oct. 23 before a trading suspension. The
bank’s founding Liu family will offer a stake equal to about 51
percent of the company, according to the statement.  The first acquisition of a Hong Kong lender since 2009 will
give Yue Xiu a network of 53 branches and help its units seek
funding outside mainland  China . Chong Hing, which named Lau Wai-man as the first chief executive officer from outside the Liu
family last year, said in August it had been approached by
prospective bidders.  “Yue Xiu’s subsidiaries have business relations with Chong
Hing or will become Chong Hing’s customers in the future,”
Steven Chan, a Hong Kong-based banking analyst at Maybank Kim
Eng Securities Pte, said by phone today. “Chong Hing may also
help Yue Xiu develop cross-border  yuan  business.”  The Chinese firm needs approval from the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority for its Chong Hing offer, the bidder said in the
statement. Yue Xiu said it intends to keep the lender’s stock
exchange listing.  Building Sale  Chong Hing shares did not trade on Oct. 24-25 pending an
announcement on an acquisition, after Bloomberg News reported
the bank was nearing a deal with Yue Xiu. The stock, which has
jumped more than 170 percent in Hong Kong since Lau’s 
appointment was announced Nov. 28, will resume trading Oct. 28.  Chong Hing Bank will sell its headquarters on Des Voeux
Road in Hong Kong’s city center to the family’s  Liu Chong Hing
Investment Ltd. (194) , the current parent company, for HK$2.23
billion, according to the statement. Chong Hing Bank will
distribute the proceeds as a special dividend of HK$4.5195 a
share.  Hong Kong’s role as an international center for trade in
the yuan has attracted Chinese financial institutions seeking to
expand abroad, including China Merchants Bank Co., which paid
$4.7 billion for the Wu family’s Wing Lung Bank Ltd. in a deal
completed in 2009.  Trading Company  The increasing integration of Chinese and Hong Kong firms
was driven by increased cooperation between the city and the
mainland’s economy, the internationalization of China’s currency
and Hong Kong’s development as an offshore yuan center, Yue Xiu
said in a section in yesterday’s statement explaining the
reasons for its offer.  Yue Xiu Group, founded in 1985 by Guangzhou as a trading
company for Hong Kong and Macau,  operates in  businesses
including real estate, securities and transportation
infrastructure.  Outstanding loans in Hong Kong denominated in the
mainland’s currency surged to 115.4 billion yuan ($19 billion)
in August from 1.8 billion yuan in 2010, HKMA data show. Yuan-denominated debt securities, known as  Dim Sum bonds , jumped to
294 billion yuan at the end of June from 55.8 billion yuan in
2010.  Local Lender  Chong Hing, founded in 1948 as Liu Chong Hing Bank Ltd.,
dropped the family name in December 2006 to “more accurately
reflect the public nature of the bank,” according to its
 website . Lau replaced Liu Lit-chi, a family member who had spent
more than 50 years at the bank.  Chong Hing’s network of 51 branches in Hong Kong compares
with more than 260 at  BOC Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. , the Bank of
China Ltd. unit that’s the biggest local lender. Chong Hing also
has one branch each in Macau and mainland China.  The number of publicly traded family-run banks in Hong Kong
has fallen to four from six more than a decade ago after China
Merchants bought Wing Lung and Public Bank Bhd. of Malaysia took
over Asia Commercial Bank. In addition to Chong Hing, Bank of
East Asia Ltd.,  Dah Sing Banking Group Ltd. (2356)  and  Wing Hang Bank
Ltd. (302)  are the family lenders.  Wing Hang’s stock has surged 37 percent in Hong Kong
trading since Sept. 16, when the bank said its largest
shareholders were in talks to sell their shares. The Fung
family, its affiliates and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp.
together own about 45 percent of the company.  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) , Southeast Asia’s second-largest lender, is considering a bid for Wing Hang, people
familiar with the matter said Oct. 24. Singapore-based OCBC had
been studying an offer for the Hong Kong bank for more than two
weeks, one of the people said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nathaniel Espino in Beijing at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  