-- Zogenix Wins U.S. Approval for Pure Hydrocodone Pain Pill
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-25T20:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/zogenix-wins-u-s-approval-for-pure-hydrocodone-pain-pill.html
Zogenix Inc. (ZGNX)  won approval to sell
the first painkiller made of pure hydrocodone as U.S. regulators
recommended restrictions on popular combination treatments with
the drug. The decision helped Zogenix shares climb the most in
eight months.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the San Diego-based company’s Zohydro for the management of pain severe enough
to require continuous, long-term treatment, the agency said
today in a statement. Zohydro is intended as an alternative to
drugs including Vicodin that mix hydrocodone with less-potent
medicines such as aceteminophen.  Zogenix is counting on the painkiller to boost its $44
million in 2012 revenue from sales of a migraine treatment
Sumavel. FDA advisers recommended in December that Zohydro not
gain market clearance until the agency examined greater measures
to curb opioid abuse. The medicine doesn’t contain tamper-proof
technology that other drugmakers are using to prevent crushing
and snorting of their pills, such as closely held Purdue Pharma
LP’s OxyContin.  Zogenix gained 36 percent to $3.04 at the close in  New
York , the biggest single-day increase since Feb. 27.  The FDA asked Zohydro to study the drug’s abuse potential
while it’s on the market, the agency said in the statement.  The FDA will recommend by early December reclassifying
hydrcodone-combinations as Schedule II substances,  Janet Woodcock , director of the agency’s Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research, said yesterday. Pure hydrocodone, such as Zohydro,
already carries the stricter Schedule II rules.  Five Classifications  Combinations are currently Schedule III on a five-stage
scale that takes into account the potential for addiction, with
Schedule I having the highest likelihood of abuse. The Drug
Enforcement Administration, which sets the schedule, asked the
FDA to recommend the stricter rules for the combination
painkillers.  Schedule II drugs are limited to a 90-day supply and
patients must visit their doctor for more instead of the five
refills within six months for Schedule III.  Zohydro uses  Alkermes Plc (ALKS) ’s drug delivery technology to
provide extended release technology for Zogenix. The FDA said
the drug should be reserved for patients whose pain hasn’t been
controlled by other medicines or who can’t tolerate other
potential alternatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  