-- Zynga Posts Smaller Loss Than Expected, Appoints COO
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-10-25T20:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-25/zynga-posts-smaller-loss-than-expected-appoints-coo.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , reporting on its first
quarter under Chief Executive Officer Don Mattrick, recorded a
smaller-than-expected loss as purchases of items used in games
exceeded the company’s forecast. The shares jumped 5.5 percent.  The third-quarter loss, excluding items, amounted to 2
cents a share, the San Francisco-based maker of “Farmville”
said yesterday in a  statement . Analysts had forecast a loss of 4
cents, the average of 23  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue slid to $202.6 million from $316.6 million a year ago,
beating analysts’ projections of $190.2 million.  Zynga said it cut 154 jobs during the quarter and reduced
work with outside contractors to keep expenses in line with
shrinking revenue. The shares, which still trade at less than
half their IPO price, have risen about 30 percent since the news
of Mattrick’s appointment amid optimism that the former head of
Microsoft Corp.’s games business will engineer a turnaround as
players shift to mobile devices.  “They know what they have to do and can do in order to hit
their numbers,”  Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush
Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles , said in an interview. Mattrick
“is a deliberate guy, and he’s not going to do anything to hurt
them by cutting too rapidly, but he will cut when he needs to.”
Pachter recommends buying the stock.  Stephanie Hess, a Zynga spokeswoman, said the cuts were
part of the company’s previously announced reductions that
couldn’t contractually happen until the third quarter.  Lower Sales  Zynga’s sales in the period fell to their lowest since the
company went public in 2011 as more Facebook members played
games from King.com, maker of “Candy Crush Saga.”  The shares rose to $3.73 at the close today in  New York .
They have gained 58 percent this year.  Mattrick, who replaced founder  Mark Pincus  as chief
executive officer in July, yesterday named veteran game
executive Clive Downie as chief operating officer, effective
Nov. 4.  “As we build new leadership capabilities and focus the
company on long-term growth, Clive’s customer-centric point of
view and proven track record will be invaluable to Zynga’s
future,” Mattrick said in a statement.  Downie, 41, who resigned this week as CEO of social-mobile
company DeNA West, will be responsible for Zynga’s publishing,
live game operations, communications, business development and
human resources.  Game studios, the legal and finance departments will
continue to report directly to Mattrick. Both men previously
worked at  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)   Virtual Goods  Bookings, the value of virtual goods sold in the quarter,
totaled $152 million in the third quarter, exceeding the
company’s July 25 forecast of $125 million to $150 million. They
were down 40 percent from a year earlier.  Zynga’s average monthly mobile users totaled 51 million at
the end of September, compared with 57 million three months
earlier. Mattrick said it will take time to identify the best
mobile opportunities. He has told employees to focus on
transforming some of its key franchises for on-the-go use.  “Mobile success is difficult to reproduce amid an
increasingly competitive landscape,”  Michael Olson , an analyst
with Piper Jaffray Cos. in  Minneapolis  who has a hold rating on
the shares, wrote in an Oct. 22 note. “With the exception of
poker, Zynga has yet to publish a mobile game that can stay
consistently popular over several months.”  The net loss for the third quarter narrowed to $68,000, or
break-even per share, from a loss of $52.7 million, or 7 cents,
a year earlier, Zynga said. The company’s reported revenue
includes virtual items sold before the quarter and amortized
over their expected life.  For the fourth quarter, Zynga forecasts revenue of $175
million to $185 million, compared with analysts’ estimates of
$186.3 million. The company sees a loss of 4 cents to 5 cents a
share, excluding items, more than the 3-cent loss projected by
analysts. Bookings, the value of virtual goods, are estimated at
$130 million to $140 million, Zynga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  