-- ‘Pan Am’ May Fly Again as Web Revives Canceled TV Shows
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-05-18T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/-pan-am-may-fly-again-as-web-revives-canceled-tv-shows.html
In the world of television, canceled
doesn’t mean what it used to.  The four major U.S. networks this week unveiled 31 new
shows for 2012-2013, meaning at least that many won’t be back.
Some, like CBS’s “A Gifted Man,” failed to win viewers.
Others, like ABC’s “ Desperate Housewives ,” ran their course.  A few, like “Pan Am,” may live on, thanks to new outlets
for original programming.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and DirecTV offer studios
a chance to keep shows going, said  Tony Wible , an analyst with
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. With detailed data
on viewing, they can better tell which programs can survive on
smaller budgets with fewer, dedicated fans.  “Digital can provide a way to recycle shows that have been
canceled, because there’s a lot more pressure on those platforms
to go toward original content,” Wible said in an interview.
“Whether or not you invest in a new show or one that’s been
canceled is a function of cost and data.”  Sony Pictures Television, producer of the canceled airline
drama “Pan Am” that aired on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC network has
held talks with distributors to keep the show going, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Netflix has better data “than anyone” to determine
whether a show may succeed online, Wible said. When the  Los
Gatos , California-based company ordered a new season of
“Arrested Development” in November, it knew how popular past
seasons were with its 26 million streaming subscribers.  “One of the reasons we were so excited about coming to
Netflix is that’s certainly where this show has grown, and
that’s where our fans are,” Mitch Hurwitz, the show’s creator,
said at a broadcasters’ convention last month in  Las Vegas .  ‘Jericho’ Revisited  Netflix is talking with  CBS Corp. (CBS)  about resurrecting the
drama “Jericho,” according to two people with knowledge of the
discussions who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Generally, the network is “always willing to talk with
Netflix if they’re interested in one of our shows,” Kelly Kahl,
CBS’s chief scheduler, said in an interview.  Netflix also discussed with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox ordering more
episodes of “ Terra Nova ,” though an agreement wasn’t reached,
according to a person with knowledge of the discussions who also
couldn’t discuss the matter publicly.  Cable networks have become another potential last stop for
shows on the verge. “Cougar Town,” starring Courtney Cox, is
moving to  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s TBS for the 2013 season from ABC.
NBC’s “Southland” was canceled in 2009 before finding a home
on Time Warner’s TNT, where it still airs.  Netflix,  DirecTV (DTV)  and cable competitors benefit by picking
up canceled shows because they already have been heavily
marketed and come with a built-in audience, Kahl said.  Joris Evers, a Netflix spokesman, declined to comment.  DirecTV  DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-TV service, has
extended the life of “Damages,” a legal drama starring  Glenn Close  that originally aired on News Corp.’s FX, by scheduling
the program commercial-free on its Audience Network, ordering a
total of 20 new episodes. It did the same with the football
drama “Friday Night Lights,” which ran on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC
and then for three seasons on DirecTV with 39 new episodes.  Both shows had received critical acclaim, making them
attractive, said Derek Chang, DirecTV’s executive vice president
of content strategy and development. The company saved money by
negotiating for lower production budgets and sharing costs with
the producers and distributors, he said.  DirecTV has no plans to pick up any of this year’s canceled
shows after looking at “a couple,” Chang said. The El Segundo,
California-based company is far more likely to revive a canceled
drama than a sitcom to fit with its premium brand, he said.  ‘Fan Base’  “We’ll pick up shows that go to our fan base, which is
predominantly 35 and over,” Chang said. “We’re trying to
complement a DirecTV brand. If a show has an excellent cast and
writing, it can be a good fit.”  A potential buyer such as Hulu LLC offers studios another
incentive to keep their series alive. While Netflix and DirecTV
offer programs commercial-free, shows offered by Los Angeles-
based Hulu are ad-supported.  Industrywide, ad revenue for online video is up 22 percent
to $2.3 billion this year in the U.S., Brian Wieser, an analyst
at Pivotal Research Group in  New York , wrote in an April 16
report.  Meredith Kendall, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
declined to comment.  Future Buyers?  Executives at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Yahoo Inc. (YHOO)  also
may be studying cancellations as more advertising dollars move
toward streaming video, Wible said. Shows are dropped for a
reason, and most network programs come with budgets that make it
difficult to be profitable without ad support. Ten hour-long
episodes can cost about $30 million, Wible said.  In 2009, Google’s YouTube ran all five episodes of “The
Beautiful Life,” which moved to the online service after two
episodes aired on the CW. Chris Dale, a YouTube spokesman,
declined to comment on any plans for canceled shows.  Tom Neumayr , an Apple spokesman, didn’t return a call
seeking comment. Dana Lengkeek, with Yahoo, also didn’t respond
to a call.  Producers of canceled shows shouldn’t hold out too much
hope that additional new buyers will come knocking.  “The problem, if you’re a Google or a Yahoo, is you don’t
have Netflix’s rich data to know the true interest of a show,”
Wible said. “Nielsen only gives you a snapshot, and obviously
the show was canceled because of that. You’d need another data
point that proves the show is going to pay for itself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  