-- Ackman Sends Wake-Up Call to Sleepy Canada Boardrooms
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-05-18T20:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/ackman-sends-wake-up-call-to-sleepy-canada-boardrooms.html
William Ackman ’s triumph at  Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  may echo across boardrooms far from the
railroad’s Calgary headquarters.  In a Canadian corporate culture long resistant to activist
shareholders, the U.S. hedge-fund manager sounded a rousing
wake-up call by ousting a chairman, a chief executive officer
and four directors, said  Karl Moore , professor of business
strategy at  McGill University  in  Montreal .  “New York-style capitalism has landed in  Canada  with both
feet on the ground,” Moore said yesterday in an interview. “It
will be a shot across the bow for any publicly traded
corporation in Canada. It will make directors ask themselves if
they have been active enough, or whether they have just been
sitting back and letting the CEO run things.”  The board exits marked an about-face for a railroad that
fought Ackman after his Pershing Square Capital Management LP
became the largest investor in October. Until the end, Canadian
Pacific backed CEO  Fred Green , who presided over a slide that
left it as the least-efficient of its North American peers.  “Our institutional investors should be more vigilant,”
said Michel Nadeau, former vice president at pension-fund
manager Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec. “Why did they
wait for  Pershing Square  to come in and shake things up? They
should have moved much earlier. As a Canadian, I am
embarrassed.”  Standing Down  Green resigned and five directors, including Chairman John Cleghorn, opted not to seek re-election only hours before the
railroad’s annual meeting, draining the event of the drama that
would have surrounded a contested vote. Ackman, 46, and the six
members of his slate won seats on the 16-member board as he
seeks to boost profit.  “If you get to a point where you have to have a proxy
fight, typically something happens,” said  Charles Elson ,
director of the Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance  at the
University of  Delaware . “A proxy fight is a symptom of
corporate malaise.”  Pershing Square’s  stake  is 14 percent. Canadian Pacific’s
stock price reflected how shareholders welcomed the fund’s
investment as the country’s second-largest railroad lagged
behind bigger rival  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  on benchmarks
such as operating ratio, a measure of expenses against sales.  The shares fell 2.9 percent in the  five years  through Oct.
27, the day before New York-based Pershing disclosed its
holdings, while  Canadian National  gained 50 percent. From Oct.
27 through yesterday, they switched: Canadian National rose 3.2
percent, while Canadian Pacific jumped 25 percent. Canadian
Pacific fell 3.1 percent, the most since March 6, to C$74.11 at
the close today in Toronto.  ‘Not Good Governance’  “Canadian investors by nature are not violent,” said
Nadeau, who is now executive director of the Montreal-based
Institute for Governance of Private and Public Organizations.
“We are a gentle people, so a conclusion such as the one we saw
at CP is going to get people’s attention. It’s a sign that CP’s
board failed to do the job. But it’s not good governance.”  Shareholder activism -- and boards that respond -- are no
guarantee of a turnaround.  Stephen Jarislowsky , whose Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd. is the
biggest investor in  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) , criticized the
Montreal-based engineering company last month for inadequate
oversight before a probe of incorrectly booked payments led to
the CEO’s resignation. The shares have slumped 3.2 percent since
his April 30 broadside, extending the year-to-date drop to 29
percent.  RIM’s Slide  Research in Motion Ltd ., the maker of BlackBerry mobile
devices, has lost another third of its market value since a new
chairman and CEO were brought in to the Waterloo, Ontario-based
company in January.  Carol Stephenson, a  General Motors Co. (GM)   board member  and
dean of the Richard Ivey School of Business at the University of
Western Ontario, said she didn’t see Ackman’s Canadian Pacific
victory as a watershed moment.  “Directors monitor performance, and they’re not
necessarily a nice jovial group,” Stephenson said. “The
difference here is that it became quite public because it was a
proxy battle. But don’t think there aren’t a lot of tough
discussions that go on around board tables in Canada.”  David Denison, CEO of the C$161.6 billion Canada Pension
Plan Investment Board, said working behind the scenes is what
his fund did with  Canadian Pacific . Canada Pension was one of
several Canadian institutional holders to back Ackman’s cause.  Results, Not Publicity  “If we can affect change without all those headlines,
without all the cost involved of what we’re seeing with CP, and
get the end result that we’re looking for, that’s a good outcome
for us,” Denison told reporters in Toronto yesterday. “We’re
not looking for publicity, we’re looking for outcome.”  Ackman said he initially had trouble persuading Canadian
Pacific investors to publicly support his slate after starting
the proxy fight, even among shareholders upset with the
railroad’s direction.  “People were generally afraid to sort of speak up,” he
said at the Bloomberg Canada Economic Forum in Toronto May 8.
“A lot of the institutions we spoke to in Canada about
participating with us here said: ‘If this were in the  United
States , we’d have no problem joining you, but because it’s in
our home country and I’m concerned our CEO is going to get a
phone call from someone on the board, we can’t do it there.’”  His tussle with Canadian Pacific wasn’t his first with a
Canadian board.  In 2006, when Pershing Square held shares of Sears Canada
Inc., Ackman was among investors upset by the retailer’s
rejection of a December 2005 offer from parent  Sears Holdings
Corp. (SHLD)  to buy the 46 percent of the Canadian company it didn’t
already own. He accused  Sears Holdings  of bullying minority
shareholders.  Success at Canadian Pacific may lead Ackman to focus on
other laggard companies in Canada, said Moore, the professor at
McGill’s Desautels Faculty of Management.  “This is a market signal” to Pershing Square, Moore said.
“They are probably thinking: ‘If this occurred here, there may
be other opportunities.’ They will ask their Canadian friends
for other targets. The phones are alive, I’m sure of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  