-- ADR Premium to BRICs Narrows on Europe Concerns: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-20T16:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/adr-premium-to-brics-narrows-on-europe-concerns-china-overnight.html
Chinese companies traded in the U.S.
fell to the lowest valuations versus the biggest emerging
markets in a year as Europe’s debt crisis deepened and growth in
the world’s second-largest economy slowed.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 7.2 percent in New York last
week to 90.7, the biggest five-day decline since September.
Suntech Power Holdings Co. and  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) 
tumbled more than 20 percent last week after the U.S. imposed
tariffs on Chinese-made solar cells.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) 
traded at a 2.2 percent discount to its Hong Kong shares.  China’s home prices fell in a record number of cities last
month and car dealers reported inventory levels that signal
deeper price cuts. Moody’s Investors Service lowered debt
ratings at 16 Spanish banks last week while Greece’s credit was
reduced one level by Fitch Ratings. Companies in the China-US
gauge traded at the smallest premium to the average member of
the MSCI BRIC Index of Brazil, Russia, India and  China  since
March 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “While there are legitimate economic concerns about China,
the elephant in the room is the European sovereign situation,”
Lewis Kaufman, a  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based money manager at
Thornburg Investment Management, who helps manage $79 billion,
said in a phone interview. “It’s a difficult environment for
risk markets, which means emerging markets including China.”  $4 Trillion  About $4 trillion has been wiped from global equity markets
in May amid mounting concern that Greece will have to leave the
euro currency union after elections next month.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 6.6 percent last week to
$33, the lowest level since Oct. 20.  The  Shanghai Composite Index of  mainland stocks slumped 2.1
percent last week, while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S.
shares lost 4.3 percent, the steepest weekly drop since
November.  American Depositary receipts of Yanzhou fell 10 percent
last week in New York to $16.77, the lowest since November 2009.
The Hong Kong shares fell 9 percent over that period.  China’s new homes prices fell from a year earlier in 46 of
the 70 cities tracked by the National Bureau of Statistics, the
agency said May 18. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last week lowered
its estimate for China’s growth this year to 8.1 percent from
8.6 percent.  Companies in the China-US gauge traded at 16 times
estimated earnings, compared with an average of 8 of the MSCI
BRIC Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Youku Tumbles  Youku Inc. (YOKU) , the largest online video operator in China,
dropped 14 percent last week to $20.27. The company reported a
22 cents loss per share in the first quarter, above the 20 cents
median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Of the 40 companies  in the China-US index that have
reported earnings since the beginning of the quarter, 15 missed
analysts’ estimates, including Yanzhou and  China Telecom Corp. (CHA) 
 E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , an online retailer, lost 23
percent last week to $5.45 as it joined  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and Sohu.com
Inc. in forecasting slower revenue growth in the second quarter.  Tudou Holdings Inc. (TUDO)  and  Qihoo 360 Technology Ltd. (QIHU)  are among
the Chinese companies that are scheduled to release earnings
this week.  Renren Sinks  Renren Inc. (RENN)  tumbled 21 percent on May 18, the most on
record, as  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering failed to
boost investors’ confidence in the Chinese social networking
website that won’t turn profit until late 2013.  Beijing-based Renren, which went public a year ago, fell 13
percent last week to $4.93. The slump halted a 76 percent gain
this year on speculation the  Facebook IPO  may prompt investors
to put a higher valuation on social media companies, Echo He, an
analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York, said by phone last week.
Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking site,
gained 0.6 percent in its trading debut.  Yingli Green , China’s third-biggest solar-energy equipment
maker, lost 29 percent last week to a record low of $2.52.
Suntech Power, the world’s largest solar-panel maker, based in
Wuxi, China, declined 22 percent to $2.  The U.S. Commerce Department ruled that Chinese
manufacturers sold cells in the U.S. at prices below the cost of
production and announced preliminary antidumping duties ranging
from 31 percent to 250 percent. The decision is meant to provide
a boost to the U.S. solar manufacturing industry, where four
companies filed for bankruptcy in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  