-- Agricole May Face $12 Billion Loss on Greek Exit, Analyst Says
-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h
-- 2012-05-18T12:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/agricole-may-face-12-billion-loss-on-greek-exit-analyst-says.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s third-
biggest bank by market value, may face a loss of as much as 9.1
billion euros ($12 billion) on its Emporiki Bank division in a
Greek exit from the euro, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said.  A departure from the currency would force the French bank
to provide more funding to its Greek unit, take losses on loans
in the country, and log currency losses as the replacement
currency declines in value, Maxence Le Gouvello, an analyst at
Credit Suisse in London, wrote in a May 16 report to clients.  Credit Agricole has been trying to reduce its exposure to
its Greek unit by boosting  deposits  in the country, offering
interest rates of as much as 5 percent a year to lure consumers.
That allowed the French lender to reduce funding to its Greek
unit by 900 million euros to 4.6 billion euros in the first
quarter, according to company filings. A decline in deposits may
force the French parent to provide more loans to its Greek
subsidiary, according to analysts at Deutsche Bank.  “ Credit Agricole  isn’t immune against a potential deposit
run that would wipe out all progress achieved so far,” Flora Benhakoun, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a May 14
report. “A deposit run can still not be ruled out in a country
undergoing a deep social and economic crisis and without a
government.”  Anne-Sophie Gentil, a spokeswoman at Credit Agricole
declined to comment on Credit Suisse’s estimates.  Greek Elections  The loss may be as little as 2.1 billion euros in the best-
case outcome and 9.1 billion euros at worst, Le Gouvello wrote.
Citigroup Inc. analysts led by Stefan Nedialkov estimated the
potential loss at 6 billion euros in a report yesterday.  Greece will hold elections on June 17, after previous polls
on May 6 failed to produce a government. The country’s credit
rating was reduced one level by  Fitch Ratings  late yesterday
amid concern it won’t muster the political support needed to
remain a member of the 17-nation euro area. Almost $4 trillion
has been wiped from global equity markets this month amid
growing concern Greece will have to leave the euro.  Credit Agricole said its Emporiki unit increased deposits
by 570 million euros in the first quarter. The bank has been
monitoring deposit levels in recent weeks, Chief Financial
Officer Bernard Delpit said on a May 11 conference call with
analysts as the bank reported first-quarter earnings.  “We are looking at that every day and I can tell you that
this week, we have not seen anything,” Delpit said on the call.  Greece ’s central bank head,  George Provopoulos , this week
told President Karolos Papoulias that Greeks have withdrawn as
much as 700 million euros from banks and the situation could
worsen, according to a transcript of the president’s meeting
with party leaders on May 14. Greece had 160 billion euros of
 bank deposits  on March 30, down 74 billion euros from the peak
in 2009, according to the latest data from the central bank.  Credit Agricole purchased Emporiki Bank SA for 2.6 billion
euros in 2006. The French lender said last week first-quarter
profit tumbled 75 percent, hurt by losses at the Greek unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in  London  at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nicholas Dunbar at   ndunbar1@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  