-- Alabama Governor Stands Clear as Jefferson County’s Cash Drains
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-05-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/alabama-governor-stands-clear-as-jefferson-county-s-cash-drains.html
Robert Bentley’s legacy as governor
of  Alabama  may be his inability to force a solution to the
bankruptcy of state’s most populous county.  The Alabama Legislature’s annual session ended on May 16
without House action on a bill to help close a budget shortfall
facing Jefferson County, which six months ago filed a $4.2
billion municipal bankruptcy, the biggest in the U.S. Bentley,
69, stayed out of the public debate on the measure to allow the
county to raise taxes.  The Legislature’s failure to act reflects poorly on the
first-term Republican governor’s leadership, said William
Stewart, professor emeritus of political science at the
 University of Alabama  in Tuscaloosa. The state’s reputation with
businesses and the  bond market  is suffering because the governor
and lawmakers aren’t helping the county, he said.  “It taints his legacy,” Stewart said in a phone
interview. “Jefferson is the most important county economically
in the state. He didn’t come in and knock heads together and
say, ‘you have to come up with a solution because it’s hurting
the state as a whole.’”  The county of 660,000, home to Birmingham, already has
missed a $15 million general-obligation bond payment and will
miss another payment in October, said county bankruptcy attorney
Kenneth Klee in a public meeting yesterday in Birmingham. County
officials have dismissed 800 employees and reduced services.
They say they need a state law to allow them to raise taxes to
close a $40 million shortfall.  Economic Health  The area’s economic health is critical to the state.
Birmingham-based firms compose at least 90 percent of the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States’  Alabama stock index ,
based on market capitalization.  The legislative delegation from Jefferson hasn’t been able
to agree on a solution, as lawmakers are divided between those
opposing taxes and who oppose additional cuts to services that
would affect low-income residents.  In Jefferson County, commissioners said they weren’t happy
with Bentley’s performance.  “He left us to fend for ourselves,” said county
Commissioner Sandra Little Brown, a Democrat, in an interview.
“I’m totally disappointed. I expected more strength from the
governor.”  National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., which insures
about $96 million of Jefferson County’s general-obligation
bonds, will make sure bondholders receive their principal and
interest payments on time, said  Kevin Brown , a company
spokesman, in an e-mail statement. National was previously known
as MBIA Insurance Corp.  Penalty for Bankruptcy  “National is disappointed by the failure of Jefferson
County’s state legislative delegation to reach a consensus on a
solution to the county’s budget shortfall,” Brown said. The
company “remains concerned that the gridlock in the Legislature
will have negative repercussions for other municipalities
throughout Alabama as well as for the state itself.”  Cities and towns in Alabama are paying a penalty for
Jefferson’s bankruptcy. Investors are demanding extra yield to
buy the region’s debt. Tom Barnett, finance director of
Birmingham, said the premium may be 0.25 percentage point across
the state.  The majority-Republican Legislature’s next regular session
begins in February. Bentley said yesterday that he wouldn’t call
a special session before then to deal with Jefferson unless the
county’s 18 lawmakers reach consensus. A special session began
yesterday to deal with immigration and other unrelated matters.  Working With Lawmakers  “We’re going to continue to work with the delegation,”
Bentley told reporters. “They’re going to have to come
together.”  He added: “We’re not going to waste taxpayer dollars on a
special session until they do.”  In an effort to resolve the county’s shortfall, Bentley met
over the past four months with lawmakers of both political
parties, business leaders and the head of the county-owned
hospital for the poor, said  David Perry , the governor’s chief of
staff.  County Republicans in the Legislature want to take money
now dedicated to medical care for low-income residents and use
it to close the budget shortfall. Bentley said yesterday that
approach -- opposed by Democrats in the county’s Legislative
delegation -- should be considered.  “The governor did what he could behind the scenes,” Perry
said in an interview. “I’m not sure that anybody could have
bridged the gap between the members of the Jefferson County
delegation. Certainly, nobody did.”  Governor’s Involvement  State Senator Scott Beason of Jefferson County, a
Republican, said in an interview that Bentley tried as best he
could.  “I don’t know what else he could have done,” said Beason,
who supports using the medical care money to close the budget
gap.  Other lawmakers from Jefferson faulted the governor.  “He wasn’t involved,” said Representative Patricia Todd,
a Democrat. “He was more like ‘Y’all go figure it out.’”  State Senator J.T. “Jabo” Waggoner, a Republican who
sponsored the failed bill, said Bentley “should have made an
effort” to back the tax measure.  “Any governor should be able to influence the members of
his own party,” Waggoner said in an interview.  Bentley is a retired dermatologist who served two terms in
the Alabama House before winning the governor’s race in 2010, on
a campaign that included a pledge not to raise taxes. He took
office in January 2011.  Bond Deals  Jefferson County’s trouble began more than three years ago,
a product of corruption and bad bond deals involving its sewer
system. It became a crisis last year, after a wage tax that had
generated 25 percent of its general fund was struck down by the
state  Supreme Court .  Bentley’s administration tried to help Jefferson avoid
bankruptcy by negotiating with sewer creditors and offering a
state-debt guarantee. The bargain required the Legislature
replace the missing wage tax revenue.  The county’s legislative delegation, divided along both
race and party lines, couldn’t agree on how to do that. Alabama
law allows a single member of a county’s legislative delegation
to stop measures that name their locality.  The Legislature convened its regular session in February,
and county legislators still couldn’t agree. So two Republican
lawmakers from Jefferson introduced bills written in a way that
sidestepped opposition from state lawmakers representing the
county. That measure was the only Jefferson County proposal
still alive in the Legislature on its last day.  Bentley said yesterday that he would have supported the
bill if it included language requiring counties to get
permission from the governor’s office to file bankruptcy.  The measure passed in the Senate, and a similar version
failed in the House, 18-12. Sixty-nine House members didn’t
vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  