-- Alabama Governor Approves Immigration Law Change He Opposed
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-05-18T22:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/alabama-governor-approves-immigration-law-change-he-opposed-1-.html
Republican Governor Robert Bentley
approved changes to Alabama’s immigration law a day after he
said the measure was unacceptable because it requires the state
to post online the names of illegal  immigrants  who are arrested.  The legislation, signed by Bentley today, keeps in place
most of a crackdown approved last year that the Obama
administration is challenging in court as unconstitutional.  Bentley threatened to reject the measure in a news
conference yesterday. He also told reporters he wanted lawmakers
to remove a provision of the original law requiring schools to
check the citizenship status of students, and to get rid of the
new provision about posting names online. Keeping those
provisions would damage the state’s image, he said.  Bentley had called a special session of the Legislature,
starting yesterday, to revise the legislation. No lawmaker
introduced the changes he was seeking.  “It became clear that the Legislature did not have the
appetite for addressing further revisions at this time,”
Bentley said in a statement today.  Even so, Bentley said, there was “substantial progress”
in the legislation.  The original law made it a crime to employ, do business
with, or rent to those in the state illegally. The measure
approved today clarified what kinds of government transactions
required proof of citizenship.  Toughest Law  When signing  Alabama ’s immigration law last year, Bentley
praised it as the toughest in the nation. Calls for change came
from churches, farmers and business groups that argued it went
too far.  The  Justice Department  sued Alabama over the law. Courts
have temporarily blocked portions of the law, including the
schools language. The Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit
isn’t ruling until the U.S. Supreme Court decides on the
constitutionality of an immigration law in Arizona. The high
court probably will rule by the end of June.  Alabama, which census data last year showed was 3.9 percent
Hispanic, compared with 16.3 percent nationwide, is among five
states that passed immigration laws last year modeled on
 Arizona ’s 2010 statute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  