-- Asian Currencies Fall Most Since November as Europe Risks Mount
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-05-18T22:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/asian-currencies-fall-most-since-november-as-europe-risks-mount.html
Asian currencies had the biggest
weekly drop since November as concern Europe’s debt crisis will
worsen spurred demand for dollars amid signs the U.S. and
Chinese economies are losing momentum.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell 0.9 percent
this week as global funds pulled about $1.9 billion from stocks
in  South Korea  and Taiwan. The won and Malaysia’s ringgit saw
their biggest losses since September, while  India ’s rupee sank
to an all-time low.  Greece ’s credit rating was cut by  Fitch
Ratings  May 17 on concern the country will leave the euro, while
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 16 Spanish banks and 26
Italian lenders this week.  The won fell 2.2 percent from its May 11 close to 1,172.73
per dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The ringgit dropped 2 percent to 3.1350 in  Kuala Lumpur . The
rupee slid 1.5 percent to 54.4250 and Indonesia’s rupiah
weakened 1.2 percent to 9,356.  “Investors are taking money out from riskier assets given
the lingering concerns about  Europe ’s debt problem and the
economic recovery outlook,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief
trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team in Tokyo at Mizuho
Corporate Bank. “It’s a double-whammy for Asian currencies as
many countries depend on exports for growth.”  U.S. reports May 17 showed an unexpected contraction in
manufacturing and  consumer confidence  was the lowest in almost
four months. Home prices in  China  fell in a record 46 of 70
cities tracked by the government in April from a year earlier,
according to data released yesterday. Greece is holding an
election on June 17 after political leaders, split over
austerity measures needed to secure a European Union-led
bailout, failed to form a coalition in the wake of a May 6 poll.  Stock Losses  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks erased all of its
2012 gain this week as about $2 trillion of global stock market
value was erased. Policy makers in some parts of the region
indicated they are prepared to intervene to support their
currencies.  South Korea is monitoring capital flows and will take steps
to stabilize markets if needed, according to a joint statement
from the finance ministry, central bank and the financial-
markets regulator May 17.  “There’s little willingness in the market to sell the
dollar as Greek issues dominate,” said Kim Seong Soo, a Seoul-
based currency trader with Kyongnam Bank. There was speculation
in the market that the government intervened to stem the won’s
losses, but it wasn’t enough to reverse the weakening trend, Kim
said.  Intervention Risk  The  Reserve Bank  of India and Bank Indonesia have said they
will buy their currencies to counter depreciation, while Bank
Negara  Malaysia  said the country can weather any setbacks
arising from Europe’s debt crisis.  “Strong market forces in favor of the dollar have created
panic,” said J. Moses Harding, executive vice president at
IndusInd Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “The  Reserve Bank of India  does
not have enough ammunition to fight against the tsunami-like
ferocious headwinds the rupee is facing.”  The  yuan  weakened 0.28 percent this week to 6.3284 per
dollar in Shanghai and touched 6.3307, the weakest level since
March 15, according to China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
People’s Bank of China lowered its reference rate 0.41 percent
to 6.3209, the biggest weekly decline since August 2010.  China Slowdown  The central bank in  Asia ’s biggest economy cut lenders’
reserve requirements effective yesterday for the third time in
six months to support the economy, which expanded in the first
quarter at the slowest pace since mid-2009. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. lowered its forecast for second-quarter growth to 7.9
percent from 8.5 percent, according to a research note published
yesterday. The bank reduced its 2012 projection to 8.1 percent
from 8.6 percent.  Thailand’s baht dropped 0.5 percent this week to 31.33 per
dollar in Bangkok. A government report on May 21 may show the
economy shrank 0.9 percent in the first quarter, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Gross domestic product slumped 9 percent in the final three
months of 2011 as the worst floods in almost 70 years damaged
factories and crops.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso depreciated 1.6 percent to
43.247 against the greenback,  Taiwan ’s dollar lost 0.7 percent
to NT$29.63 and Vietnam’s dong dropped 0.1 percent to 20,848.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 