-- Asia to Boost June Nigerian Oil Imports to 11-Month High
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-05-18T08:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/asia-to-boost-nigerian-crude-imports-for-june-to-11-month-high.html
Asian refiners will boost their daily
imports of Nigerian crude in June to the highest level in at
least 11 months, a survey of seven traders and an analysis of
loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  They bought 16 cargoes of Nigerian grades, including eight
benchmark Qua Iboe blend, the survey showed. This works out at
513,333 barrels a day, the most since August 2011 when Bloomberg
started compiling the data.  Exports to the region totaled 57 cargoes of crude for
loading in June from Angola,  Nigeria , Republic of Congo,
 Equatorial Guinea , Gabon and  Ghana , two less than May, according
to the survey. It amounts to 1.8 million barrels a day, the
lowest in six months, compared with 1.81 million this month.  Refiners in Asia can buy Middle Eastern crude or Atlantic
Basin grades, and their choice normally depends on the value of
the lighter, sweet blends from the  North Sea  and West  Africa 
versus heavier, sour grades from  Saudi Arabia  and  Iran . Lighter
crude yields more lucrative products such as diesel and
gasoline. Sweet oil contains less sulfur than sour.  Unlike  China , which mostly buys Angolan crude, other Asian
buyers, such as Indian refineries, are flexible, and their
choices normally depend on the price of individual grades. Most
Nigerian blends are lighter than  Angola , and normally trade at
higher prices.  Nigerian grades “appeared to be better value than Angolan
crude due to shifts in price differentials,” James Zhang, a
London-based analyst at Standard Bank Plc, said yesterday in an
e-mailed response.  Qua Iboe-Cabinda Spread  Nigerian benchmark Qua Iboe fell to an 18-month low of
$1.35 a barrel to Dated Brent on April 30, while Angolan Cabinda
was trading at an average of $1.51 a barrel more than Dated
Brent in April, close to its record high of $1.62 a barrel on
March 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As a result, the  spread  between Cabinda and Qua Iboe jumped
to a record 13-cent premium on April 25, compared with an
average of $3.30-discount last year, the Bloomberg data showed.  The U.S., the largest buyer of Nigerian crude, has cut its
 purchases  since September. Its imports from Africa’s largest
producer fell to 352,000 barrels a day in February, the least in
more than five years, compared with 948,000 a year earlier,
according to the data from the  Department of Energy .  India  bought 18 cargoes for June, one more than this month,
according to the survey. The country’s imports of Nigeria crude
will rise to 12 cargoes in June from nine this month, while
loadings of Angolan grades will fall to two shipments from five.  Largest Refiner  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, maintained
its purchases at seven shipments, while  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL) , which owns the world’s largest refining complex, reduced
its imports to five cargoes from seven, the survey showed.  Bharat Petroleum Corp., India’s second-largest state
refiner, bought five cargoes of Nigerian crude, the most in at
least 11 months, including three shipments of Qua Iboe.  Chinese refiners cut their imports to 29 cargoes, the least
in six months, compared with 35 for May, the survey showed.
China International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as
Unipec, bought 21 shipments, down from 24 for this month.  Indonesia ’s state-owned PT Pertamina kept its imports
unchanged at three cargoes, including two Qua Iboe lots,
according to the survey.  The  Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps , which measures the
European benchmark against the Persian Gulf grade, averaged
$3.77 in April, compared with $3.81 in March and $3.35 in
February, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd. The
spread fell to a 14-month low of $2.32 a barrel on Jan. 16.
Traders make more profit from shipping West African crude to
 Asia  when the spread between the two contracts shrinks.  Nigeria will export 2.27 million barrels a day of crude
next month while Angola will ship 1.66 million barrels,
Bloomberg calculations based on loading programs showed.  The following tables show details of planned Asian imports.
Most cargoes are for 950,000 to 1 million barrels. All the
volumes are in barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  