-- U.S. Stocks Fall After Facebook IPO; Treasuries Decline
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-18T21:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/asian-stocks-won-decline-on-europe-risk-u-s-economic-data.html
U.S. stocks slid, extending the
biggest weekly loss since November, as  Facebook (FB)  Inc.’s record
initial public offering failed to boost confidence in a market
rattled by  Europe ’s debt crisis. Treasuries dropped while the
 Dollar Index  retreated after a record  14 straight gains .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.7 percent to
1,295.22 at 4 p.m. in New York, extending its weekly drop to 4.3
percent and dipping below 1,300 for the first time since
January. Facebook rose 0.6 percent from its $38 offering price,
paring a gain of as much as 18 percent. Treasury 10-year yields
increased two basis points to 1.72 percent after falling to
about two basis points above a record. Oil lost 1.2 percent to a
six-month low and copper erased its gain for the year.  U.S. equities rallied in early trading after market makers
in Germany quoted bids for Facebook at around $70 a share,
spurring speculation that the IPO would inspire confidence in
stocks and distract attention from Europe’s debt crisis. Group
of Eight leaders prepared to meet to discuss Europe’s debt
crisis as global stocks capped their worst week in eight months.  “It’s tough to live up to the hype,” said  Matt McCormick ,
who helps oversee $6.2 billion at Bahl & Gaynor Inc. in
Cincinnati. “There’s been a tremendous amount of hype with
Facebook. People were expecting a bigger pop in the stock. After
they didn’t get it or they didn’t get it to the extent that they
wanted, they started to focus on the rest. There’s concern about
Europe and many people don’t want to be long over the weekend.”  Bankhaus Main, making a market for Facebook shares in
Frankfurt before the official start of trading, quoted the
orders at the equivalent of $70 a share, said Gerion Weber, head
of lead brokerage at the firm, before the stock started trading
at 11:30 a.m.  New York  time.  Nasdaq Issues  The pricing of the first Facebook transaction following
yesterday’s $16 billion stock sale took a half hour longer than
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. planned. About 40 minutes later, the
second-largest U.S. equities exchange operator said it was
investigating an issue in reporting trades from the opening
auction back to the brokerages that made them. Nasdaq later said
it delivered the messages to customers. The Securities and
Exchange Commission said it will review the problems.  Facebook’s underwriters purchased the company’s stock to
keep it from falling below the offering price of $38, people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Social Shares Slump  Shares of other social-networking companies retreated after
Facebook started trading.  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , the online-coupon
provider, tumbled 6.7 percent and LinkedIn Corp., the
professional-networking site, dropped 5.7 percent.  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ,
which makes games played on Facebook, closed down 13 percent
after setting off single-stock circuit breakers meant to halt
trading to reduce volatility. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. shares fell
4.4 percent, the most since October.  Hewlett-Packard Co.,  DuPont Co. (DD) , Chevron Corp. lost at
least 1.7 percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  down
73.11 points to 12,369.38 as the 30-stock gauge sank to the
lowest since Jan. 6 and trimmed its 2012 gain to 1.2 percent.
The Nasdaq Composite Index lost 1.2 percent to extend its
decline from this year’s high to 11 percent.  The  S&P 500  has tumbled almost 9 percent from its four-year
high in April and about $4 trillion has been erased from global
equities this month amid renewed concern about Europe’s debt
crisis and disappointing economic data. Technology, financial
and health-care led losses among the 10 main industry groups
today, while telephone stocks were the only group to gain.  The slump has pushed a gauge of market momentum to levels
last seen in August, a sign to some traders that the S&P 500
fell too far, too fast. The 14-day  relative strength index  for
the S&P 500 slid today to 23.25. The RSI, which measures the
degree to which gains and losses outpace each other, has been
below 30 for three consecutive days. Readings that low are
considered signs to buy by some analysts who use charts to make
forecasts.  Commodities  Nickel, soybeans and sugar lost at least 1.9 percent to
lead the S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities down 0.2 percent,
extending its 2012 drop to 2.4 percent. Losses in the index
where limited as natural gas rallied to a four-month high as
forecasts for warmer weather into June signaled increased demand
from  power plants . Wheat extended this week’s gain to 16
percent, its biggest rally since 2007, on speculation that dry
weather in the U.S. and the Black Sea region will limit
production.  Dollar, Euro  The U.S. currency was mixed against 16 major peers and the
Dollar Index slipped 0.3 percent after a 14-day rally sent it to
the highest level in four months. The euro increased 0.6 percent
to $1.2773, rebounding from the lowest level since January.  Hedge funds and other large speculators increased their
bets on a weaker euro to 173,869 in the week ended May 15, the
highest since the common currency’s inception in 1999, according
to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data  Treasury 10-year yields rose as investors bet price gains
were overdone before the U.S. sells $99 billion of coupon-
bearing debt next week.  Benchmark notes rose for a ninth straight week, the longest
streak since 1998. The 10-year yield dropped earlier as Europe’s
resurgent debt crisis boosted demand for the perceived safety of
 U.S. debt . The seven-year note yield touched a record low 1.135
percent before turning higher.  Bonds Versus Stocks  Corporate bonds are approaching the priciest on record
relative to stocks as Europe’s fiscal turmoil and concern that
economic growth is faltering stoke demand for the perceived
safety of U.S. company debt. Buyers accepting bond yields at
about all-time lows for investment-grade companies are getting
about 4 percentage points less than the current earnings yield
of 7.6 percent for the S&P 500, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the biggest gap since the measure reached a
record in October.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 1.1 percent. Volkswagen
AG and Porsche SE lost at least 2 percent to lead automakers to
the biggest decline among 19 groups in the index.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said turmoil in
the financial markets caused by Europe’s debt crisis may last
another two years, as G-8 leaders prepared to discuss Greece and
its impact on the global economy.  “We are potentially reaching a sentiment bottom but also
an hour of reckoning” for policymakers, said Jonathan Plant, a
trader at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London . “European leaders
must address whether it is time to extend quantitative measures
or facilitate debt write-downs.”  Spain Rebounds  Spain’s  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  rose 0.4 percent, rebounding from a
nine-year low, even after Moody’s Investors Service lowered debt
ratings at 16 Spanish banks, confirming reports yesterday that
helped drag equities lower.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA,
Spain’s biggest lenders which were both cut three levels by
Moody’s, climbed at least 3 percent. The shares erasing earlier
losses as  Cinco Dias  reported that Spanish banks are calling for
a reintroduction of a ban on short selling of financial stocks.
Bankia SA, the publicly traded arm of the banking group taken
over by the Spanish government last week, jumped 23 percent,
rebounding from 10 days of losses.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slumped 1.5 percent and
lost 6.6 percent for the week, its worst loss since September.
The MSCI BRIC Index of the biggest  emerging markets  lost 0.7
percent, leaving the measure down 21 percent from this year’s
peak.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  