-- Tata Steel Net Tumbles 90% as Europe Crisis Cuts Demand, Prices
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-05-18T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/tata-steel-net-tumbles-90-as-europe-crisis-cuts-demand-prices.html
Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) ,  India ’s biggest
producer, reported a worse-than-expected 90 percent drop in
fourth-quarter profit as an escalating debt crisis in Europe
lowered demand and prices in the steelmaker’s largest market.  Net income , including that of unit Tata Steel Europe Ltd.,
fell to 4.33 billion rupees ($79 million) in the three months
ended March 31 from 41.8 billion rupees a year earlier, the
Mumbai-based company said yesterday in a statement. The median
profit estimate of 34 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was 8.81
billion rupees. Sales gained 1 percent to 338.6 billion rupees.  The gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro region
stagnated in the last quarter, compared with the previous three
months, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said on May 15. Steel demand in the European Union will drop
about 2.7 percent this year, Eurofer, the European steel
industry lobby group, said on May 7.  Total costs rose 5 percent to 319.1 billion rupees in the
quarter, while raw material expenses fell 5 percent to 102.2
billion rupees, the company said. Earnings from sources other
than the main business fell 39 percent to 2.22 billion rupees,
the company said. Net debt increased to 476.97 billion rupees as
on March 31, compared with 466.6 billion rupees a year ago.  Tata Steel  shares  fell 1.5 percent to 399.95 rupees in
Mumbai yesterday. The benchmark Sensitive Index rose 0.5
percent. The earnings were announced after the market closed.  Debt Crisis  Steel deliveries for the quarter fell 6.5 percent to 6.22
million tons, underlining “operational difficulties” and lower
demand in  Europe  because of the continuing debt crisis, Karl-
Ulrich Kohler, chief executive officer at Tata Steel Europe,
said in a statement.  The company expects production from its European mills to
stabilize from January after a new blast furnace at Port Talbot
starts production, Kohler said yesterday at a media conference
in Mumbai. Lower raw material prices will improve margins for
the European business and coal shipments from  Mozambique ’s Benga
project should start this month, Managing Director H.M. Nerurkar
said at the conference.  Tata Steel plans to increase output by 1 million tons this
fiscal year from its Jamshedpur plant expansion, Nerurakar said.
The company is arranging funds for a new plant in the eastern
Indian state of Odisha, group Chief Financial Officer Koushik Chatterjee told reporters yesterday in Mumbai.  Tata Steel expects to start the first phase of the annual
3.5 million ton factory in Odisha as early as October 2013,
Nerurkar said on April 20.  Fund Growth  The steelmaker has $2.4 billion of cash and cash equivalent
and a  capital structure  that will support its ability to fund
growth, Chatterjee said. The company expects to maintain its 1:1
net debt to equity position, he said.  The Indian operations may see a bigger impact of higher
railway freight and increase in mineral royalties in this fiscal
year, Nerurkar said yesterday.  Hot-rolled steel coil , a benchmark product used in
automobiles and buildings, declined 11 percent to $703.50 a ton
in the first quarter, compared with $793.70 a year earlier,
according to Steel Business Briefing’s global price index.  Iron
ore , a steelmaking ingredient, averaged 20 percent lower than a
year earlier, while coking coal fell 18 percent.  Steel demand in India may rise 8 percent this fiscal year
after the nation’s central bank cut  interest rates  to boost
growth, G.K. Basak, executive secretary at the steel ministry’s
joint plant committee, said in an April 13 interview.  Global steel use will rise 3.6 percent this year, less than
last year’s 5.6 percent increase, as European demand contracts
and Chinese use slows, the World Steel Association said on April
27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  