-- Australia Seen a Decade Away From Large-Scale Shale Production
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-05-18T04:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/australia-seen-a-decade-away-from-large-scale-shale-production.html
Australian shale explorers may be a
decade away from producing oil and gas on a large scale because
of obstacles ranging from a lack of drilling equipment to higher
labor and infrastructure costs,  Wood Mackenzie  Ltd. said.  “The only factor that could change that significantly is
if there’s a liquids-rich play that really drove the need to
rapidly bring in the rigs,” Andrew McManus, the Sydney-based
vice president of Australasia energy consulting at Wood
Mackenzie, said in an interview. “Then you can see the value
proposition and would want to fast-track that.”  Projects focusing on higher-priced oil and liquids may earn
better returns and reach production faster, according to Wood
Mackenzie and  ConocoPhillips. (COP)  In the U.S., the largest producer
of the fuel, a supply glut has caused gas prices to slump and
forced companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc to focus on extracting petroleum liquids.  “If you have liquids the economics are much, much better
right now than a pure gas play that will take longer from an
infrastructure standpoint,” Todd Creeger, president of
ConocoPhillips’s Australian unit, said in a May 15 interview.  Energy companies will need to invest billions of dollars on
projects to extract oil and gas trapped in Australian shale
formations following about $600 million of commitments from
companies including Conoco,  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and  Hess Corp. (HES) ,
McManus from Wood Mackenzie said.  Santos Ltd. (STO) ,  Beach Energy Ltd. (BPT)  and  Buru Energy Ltd. (BRU)  are
among explorers holding pieces of an estimated 400 trillion
cubic feet of recoverable shale-gas resources in Australia, the
U.S. Energy Information Administration said.  Australian Basins  The Cooper Basin straddling the borders of  South Australia 
and Queensland states, the Georgina Basin in the country’s north
and the Canning Basin in the west are shale regions with liquids
potential, according to Wood Mackenzie.  ConocoPhillips, the third-largest U.S. oil company, is
interested in further shale investments in Australia following a
partnership last year with Perth-based  New Standard Energy Ltd. (NSE) ,
according to Creeger.  In the Canning, “we know there are liquids in the system,
which is one thing we think will be key to the pace at which
Australia develops shale,” Creeger said in Adelaide.  Oil in  New York  increased 9 percent from a year earlier to
average $103.03 a barrel in the first quarter. Natural gas
plunged 40 percent in the quarter compared with a year earlier
to average $2.503 per million British thermal units. Crude oil
fell 0.3 percent to $92.56 a barrel yesterday, while natural gas
declined 0.9 percent to $2.594 per million Btu.  Rigs, Pipelines  Australian shale explorers face a number of challenges,
including the lack of rigs, the remote location of their
projects and insufficient pipeline networks, McManus said.  Hydraulic fracturing, in which water, sand and chemicals
are pumped into the ground to break apart shale rock and release
fossil fuels, has made the U.S. the largest natural-gas producer.
The drilling technique, known as fracking, has drawn criticism
from regulators and landowners concerned about water
contamination and has been banned in  France  and Bulgaria.  The Obama administration earlier this month issued a
proposed rule requiring disclosure of the chemicals used in the
process when fracturing for oil and gas occurs on public lands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  