-- Mayer Brown, Cleary, Davis Polk, Dewey: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/mayer-brown-cleary-davis-polk-dewey-business-of-law.html
Paul W. Theiss, a corporate partner
at Mayer Brown LLP, was elected chairman of the law firm
effective June 1.  Theiss, 52, who specializes in mergers and acquisitions and
capital markets, is a member of the firm’s management committee
and a former co-leader of its global corporate and securities
practice. A focus of his three-year chairmanship will be on the
 New York ,  London  and  Hong Kong  markets, he said.  “We are absolutely committed to maintaining our strengths
as well as becoming stronger in the world’s leading financial
centers,” Theiss said in an interview.  Theiss joined Mayer Brown in 1985 and made partner in 1993.
When he arrived at the firm, 95 percent of its lawyers worked in
the U.S., he said. Now, about half do.  “We are seeing many clients using us in more practices in
more offices,” Theiss said. The firm’s growth into a globally
integrated partnership has been “an exciting and profound
change,” he said.  Theiss will succeed Herbert W. Krueger, who isn’t eligible
for another term under the firm’s partnership agreement, the
firm said.  Theiss “has been deeply involved with firm-wide strategic
issues for many years, and I am delighted that our partners have
made a wise choice,” Krueger said in a statement.  Deals  Agilent Buys Dako for $2.2 Billion in Its Biggest Acquisition  Agilent Technologies Inc. (A) , the maker of scientific-testing
equipment, agreed to buy Dako, a Danish maker of cancer-
diagnostics tools, for $2.2 billion in cash to expand its life-
science business.  Agilent is acquiring Dako from the Swedish private-equity
firm EQT Partners AB, the companies said in a statement
yesterday. The purchase is the largest in Agilent’s history.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  is advising Agilent.
The legal team includes corporate mergers and acquisitions
partners Michael McDonald in London, Ethan Klingsberg in New
York, Romano Subiotto in London and Brussels, and George Cary in
 Washington .  Additional Cleary partners include A. Richard Susko in New
York on employee benefits, Len Jacoby in New York on
intellectual property aspects and tax partner Richard Sultman in
London.  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP advised EQT. Partners on the team
included corporate partner Jeffrey R. O’Brien and tax partner
Neil Barr.  Kromann Reumert is advising Agilent on Danish law while
Accura Advokatpartnerselskab is advising EQT on Danish law.  For more, click here.  Dewey Partner Departures  Roxann Henry Joins Morrison & Foerster Antitrust Practice  Roxann Henry, Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s former co-chairwoman of
the global antitrust practice group, joined Morrison & Foerster
LLP’s Washington office as a partner.  Henry has experience in cartel and merger investigations,
defending foreign and domestic clients in cartel investigations
and in securing worldwide competition clearances for billion-
dollar acquisitions.  Among her achievements was the first court victory in more
than a decade against a Federal Trade Commission merger
challenge in a non-health-care case. Henry gained clearance for
Arch Coal Inc. to buy Triton, a move that created the largest
U.S. coal mine, Morrison & Foerster said in a statement. For
APAC-Missouri Inc., Henry secured a not guilty verdict after a
criminal antitrust trial. She also handles merger clearances,
including Nestle SA’s $40 billion sale of Alcon Inc. stock to
Novartis AG and Electronic Data Systems’ $14 billion acquisition
by Hewlett-Packard Co., the firm said.  “In 2011, MoFo’s antitrust division filed 90 criminal
cases -- more than the firm has in the past 25 years,” said
Rony Gerrits, Brussels-based co-chair of the antitrust group.  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers at 15
offices in the U.S.,  Asia  and  Europe .  Hong Kong Duo Join DLA Piper from Dewey LeBoeuf  DLA Piper  LLP said a group of lawyers led by partners Joyce
Chan and Heng Loong Cheong will join the firm’s Hong Kong office
from Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP.  Chan is the principal of Joyce Sze Ho Chan & Co., Dewey’s
Hong Kong associated firm. She specializes in insurance and has
more than a decade of experience in the insurance industry
advising on a broad range of regulatory and corporate insurance
matters.  Cheong is a corporate lawyer whose practice focuses on
mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and capital
markets transactions. He has experience advising companies in
the insurance, natural resources and renewable energy sectors.  “The critical mass we are achieving in the insurance arena
will be crucial to the success of our clients around the world,
particularly in Asia, which is quickly emerging as one of the
most active transactional and regulatory markets in this
important sector,” said Michael P. Murphy, global head of DLA
Piper’s insurance and reinsurance sector group.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers across 77 offices and 31
countries.  Two Former Dewey Partners Join Hogan Lovells in New York  Hogan Lovells  LLP said James A. FitzPatrick Jr. joined its
New York office as head of the U.S. corporate insurance practice
from Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP.  Dewey’s former co-chair of its global compensation,
benefits and employment department, Martha N. Steinman, also
will join Hogan Lovells’s New York office.  FitzPatrick represents public and private companies and
their boards in transactional matters. Steinman has experience
in executive compensation, employee benefits, qualified and non-
qualified plans and welfare plans.  Hogan Lovells’s corporate and regulatory insurance practice
has more than 120 lawyers. The firm’s corporate team comprises
more than 1,000 lawyers with offices in Asia, Europe,  Latin
America , the Middle East and the U.S.  Moves  Allan Van Fleet Joins McDermott Antitrust Practices in Houston  McDermott Will & Emery LLP said Allan Van Fleet will join
the  law firm ’s antitrust and competition practice group as a
partner in Houston along with an associate, both from Greenberg
Traurig LLP.  Van Fleet is the immediate past chairman of the American
Bar Association section of antitrust law. He has more than 30
years’ experience in antitrust litigation matters and in
securing merger clearances for clients. In addition to antitrust
litigation and counseling, his practice includes transactional
matters and representing clients before federal, state and
international enforcement agencies, the firm said.  “Allan’s arrival enhances our national and international
profile and capability, and with Alison Smith, our Houston-based
antitrust team is second-to-none,” Joseph Winterscheid, partner
and head of McDermott’s global antitrust and competition
practice group, said in a statement.  McDermott’s antitrust and competition practice group has
lawyers in offices in Boston, Brussels,  Chicago , Houston,  Los
Angeles , Orange County,  California , Milan, New York and
Washington, and a strategic alliance in Shanghai. The firm
numbers more than 1,000 lawyers.  Lotito, Labor and Employment Attorney, Joins Littler  Michael J. Lotito, a labor and employment attorney and
former Jackson Lewis LLP partner, joined Littler Mendelson PC,
as a shareholder in its San Francisco office.  Lotito has more than 35 years of experience and will be a
member of Littler’s legislative and regulatory practice in the
Washington office, the firm said.  “He serves as lead counsel for some of the nation’s
largest corporations and is a key player in the legislative and
regulatory arena,” Marko Mrkonich, president and managing
director of Littler, said in a statement. “His unparalleled
legal skill and leadership, combined with his experience in the
policy area, will be an invaluable asset to our firm as we
expand our presence nationally and internationally.”  Littler has more than 900 attorneys and 56 offices in the
U.S.  Baker Donelson Health-Care Lawyer Joins King & Spalding  Donna K. Thiel, former co-chair of the drug, device and
life sciences industry group at Baker, Donelson, Bearman,
Caldwell & Berkowitz PC, joined King & Spalding LLP’s Washington
health-care practice as a partner.  Theresa E. Weir, a lawyer specializing in health-care
regulatory matters, also joined the firm as counsel.  “Donna and Tracy’s extensive and comprehensive experience
in regulatory areas will help us meet the ever-growing needs of
our health-care and life sciences clients throughout the United
States,” said Jon R. Harris Jr., head of King & Spalding’s
health-care practice group.  Thiel represents providers and practitioners including
hospitals, nursing homes, laboratories, rehabilitation
providers, and medical-device manufacturers and suppliers.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Choate Hires Goodwin Procter IP Partner Haulbrook  Choate Hall & Stewart LLP said William R. Haulbrook joined
the firm as a partner in its intellectual property group. He
previously was a partner in Goodwin Procter LLP’s IP group.  Haulbrook will continue to focus his practice on
procurement and enforcement of intellectual-property rights,
with an emphasis on strategic development of U.S. and foreign
patent portfolios, patent infringement and validity opinions,
patent licensing, and IP due diligence.  “This is an important lateral hire for Choate and we are
very excited to have Bill Haulbrook join our world-class
intellectual property team,” William Gelnaw and John Nadas,
Choate’s co-managing partners, said in a statement.  Haulbrook has experience counseling clients on intellectual
property issues in the fields of medical imaging and
diagnostics, computer software, industrial process simulation,
polymers and composites, alternative energy, semiconductor
manufacturing, industrial chemistry and petroleum processing,
the firm said.  Choate has 175 attorneys in its Boston office.  Trials  Goldman Sachs Lawyer From Sullivan May Testify on Gupta Comments  A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lawyer from Sullivan & Cromwell
LLP may testify at next week’s  insider-trading  trial of Rajat Gupta, a former director at the bank, a prosecutor said.  At a pretrial conference May 16 in Manhattan federal court,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky said prosecutors expect to
present testimony from Steven Peikin, a lawyer at Sullivan &
Cromwell who advises New York-based Goldman Sachs.  Peikin’s testimony “will relate to certain statements made
by Mr. Gupta in an interview,” Brodsky told U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff, without providing other details.  Brodsky’s comments came at the close of a hearing in which
Rakoff said he’s likely to allow prosecutors to introduce as
evidence four wiretaps from 2008 that are critical to the
government’s case.  In one, Gupta is heard discussing Goldman Sachs business
with Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who is now
serving an 11-year prison term for insider trading. In three
others, Gupta isn’t a participant as Rajaratnam discusses stock
trades with his employees.  Gupta, who ran consulting firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to
2003, is scheduled to go on trial May 21 for tipping Rajaratnam
about earnings at Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where
Gupta was also a director. He has pleaded not guilty to five
counts of  securities fraud  and one count of conspiracy.  Prosecutors said at the hearing that their first witness
will be Caryn Eisenberg, who was Rajaratnam’s assistant at
Galleon. They didn’t say when they would call Peikin, who didn’t
return a telephone call May 16 for comment.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  The U.S. released yesterday a list of witnesses and people
whose names may emerge at the insider-trading trial of Rajat
Gupta, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chairman  Lloyd
Blankfein  and President Gary Cohn.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  