-- Bank Loans for U.K. Property May Fall Short by $158 Billion
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-05-18T09:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/bank-financing-for-u-k-property-may-fall-short-by-158-billion.html
U.K. commercial real-estate investors
may be unable to refinance as much as 100 billion pounds ($158
billion) of loans and the euro-region’s debt crisis is making
banks less willing to extend credit, according to a study by  De
Montfort University .  About 72.5 billion pounds to 100 billion pounds “will
struggle to be refinanced on current market terms,” according
to a December survey of 63 lenders by the university, located
near Leicester,  England . The borrowers will have insufficient
collateral to refinance maturing loans under current lending
terms, the study showed.  Banks and other creditors cut U.K. commercial real-estate
lending by 6.8 percent to 212.3 billion pounds last year as they
bolstered their balance sheets and recapitalized to meet
stricter regulations, De Montfort estimates. The situation may
be worsened by Europe’s escalating sovereign-debt crisis because
banks may have to make larger provisions and writedowns as
 government bonds  sold by countries including Spain and Greece
slide.  “The debt crisis is regarded as a real threat to asset
values in the U.K. and globally,” Bill Maxted, who wrote the
report with Trudi Porter, said in a statement. The problem “has
to be solved before national economies and lending markets can
start to improve.”  Scale Back Lending  Europe ’s banks, which provide as much as 94 percent of
credit for the continent’s property industry, may scale back
commercial-property lending by 700 billion euros ($886 billion)
in the next three to five years, Morgan Stanley estimates. The
region’s banks have incurred 538.6 billion euros of losses since
the third quarter of 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s second-largest bank, and
Eurohypo AG, Commerzbank AG’s real estate lending arm, have
halted new lending. That’s created opportunities for insurers
and funds to enter the market.  Respondents to the De Montfort survey said they increased
lending margins, required larger downpayments and increased loan
origination fees, the survey showed.  For the first time since De Montfort started its twice-
annual survey 11 years ago, no bank said it was prepared to lend
against development projects without a tenant committed to lease
space or a buyer for the property.  Double-Dip  The U.K. has the second-highest level of real estate debt
in Europe after  Spain , according to the European Banking
Authority. Britain’s economy entered a  double-dip recession  in
the first quarter, adding to the commercial real estate market’s
woes by curbing rental growth and reducing the likelihood of
rising property values.  If social-housing loans, commercial mortgage-backed
securities and Irish lending in the U.K. are added, commercial
real estate loans in Britain would total 299 billion pounds, De
Montfort estimated in the research.  U.K. bank lending may get scarcer if the country’s
financial regulator goes ahead with a plan to introduce tougher
 capital requirements  for these loans and increase the amount of
capital that banks must set aside against them.  The Financial Services Authority’s proposed rules, known as
“slotting,” may force banks to raise an additional 40 billion
pounds to cover losses for bad property loans, according to
Andrew Petersen, a partner at law firm K&L Gates LLP in  London .  ‘Extreme Caution’  “We would hope that the FSA exercises extreme caution in
its implementation of slotting,” Liz Peace, chief executive
officer of the British Property Federation, said in a statement
accompanying De Montfort’s report. The proposals may limit “any
signs of a recovery in the property sector and further risk
making it a less attractive place in which to invest,” she
said.  Respondents to the survey indicated that 20 percent of
loans exceeded the value of the real estate backing them. About
153 billion pounds, or 72 percent of bank loans, are scheduled
to mature by the end of 2016, according to the study.  Respondents said 48.3 billion pounds of their loans were in
default or contained terms that had been violated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 