-- Banks Suing Over MBIA Restructuring Finish Opening Arguments
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-18T21:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/banks-suing-over-mbia-restructuring-finish-opening-arguments-1-.html
Lawyers for banks seeking to overturn
 New York  state regulators’ approval of bond insurer MBIA Inc.’s
restructuring in 2009 completed their opening arguments after
three days.  New York State  Supreme Court  Justice Barbara Kapnick in
 Manhattan  is overseeing a nonjury trial on  Bank of America Corp. 
and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s claims that the February 2009 approval
of MBIA’s proposal by then-Insurance Superintendent  Eric Dinallo 
was based on inaccurate and incomplete information and therefore
violated state insurance laws and should be overturned.  More than a dozen financial institutions sued Armonk, New
York-based MBIA and the state insurance department in 2009 over
the restructuring. Bank of America and  Societe Generale  are the
only banks left in the litigation after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , UBS AG and others dropped out.  The banks claim the restructuring harmed them as
policyholders by transferring $5 billion in assets out of the
MBIA unit that insured risky mortgage debt, exposing the banks
to potential losses. Bank of America and Societe Generale have
another lawsuit pending against MBIA while MBIA is suing Bank of
America over  mortgage loans .  ‘Not Fair’  “It simply was not fair and equitable to do
a transaction that had no benefits to structured finance
policyholders and many benefits to MBIA Inc. shareholders,
executives and public finance policyholders,” Robert Giuffra, a
lawyer with Sullivan & Cromwell LLP representing the banks, said
in court today.  The trial, which began May 15, is expected to last two to
four weeks. Lawyers for the state are scheduled to begin
presenting their arguments on May 21.  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office has said in
filings that the insurance regulator approved the restructuring
after finding that all policyholders would be protected while a
well-capitalized insurer would be established for the municipal
 bond market . The state and MBIA have argued the insurance
department’s approval is entitled to “deference.”  The bond insurer ran dozens of internal analyses
forecasting billions of dollars in potential losses from
commercial mortgage-backed securities, yet provided regulators
with only five scenarios showing “zero losses,” Giuffra said.  Concealed Study  MBIA concealed from the regulators a $3.75 million study by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. paid for by the insurer that
showed that its MBIA Insurance unit was insolvent and that a
policyholders’ surplus of $3.3 billion was actually negative,
Giuffra said.  Regulators didn’t do their own solvency review and instead
relied on the opinion of Bridge Associates LLC, a consulting
firm hired by MBIA for $1.15 million that found that the company
was solvent, Sullivan & Cromwell attorney Michael Steinberg
said.  The Bridge Associates study, issued Dec. 5, 2008, was done
in just 2 1/2 weeks and was “stale,” as it was based on
information through the third quarter of 2008, more than four
months before the restructuring was approved, Steinberg said.  Lawyers for the banks have argued that the approval was
based on the analysis of Jack Buchmiller, a former department
official who now works for the  National Association of Insurance
Commissioners , who they say was given a “mission impossible”
task of analyzing the restructuring by himself -- quoting an
e-mail Buchmiller wrote in February 2009.  ‘Cue Up’  Buchmiller told MBIA officials in the e-mail to “cue up”
the “Mission Impossible” music while requesting more
information about structured finance products, according to a
Feb. 7 affidavit.  Buchmiller, who may be called to testify in the case, said
in the affidavit that the banks’ characterization of the e-mail
is incorrect.  He said in the affidavit that he was referring to the fact
that MBIA “had a series of difficult tasks it needed to
complete in short order” to convince him that its loss models
on collateralized debt obligations backed by commercial
mortgage-backed securities, were sound, “much like the team of
agents from the ‘Mission: Impossible’ television series.”  The regulators’ process was “flawed,” as Buchmiller only
reviewed 1 percent of the portfolio of MBIA Insurance’s 1,300
structured-finance products and failed to examine the company’s
audited financial statements, Giuffra said.  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v.  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , 601475-2009, New
York state Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 