-- Basler Sees Serbian Insurance Market Doubling in Six Years
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-05-18T12:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/basler-sees-serbian-insurance-market-doubling-in-six-years.html
Basler Osiguranja , a member of
 Baloise Holding AG (BALN) ,  Switzerland ’s third-largest insurer, says
growth of premiums may outpace Serbia’s economic growth after
2014 and probably reach 1 billion euros ($1.27 billion) in 2018.  Gross written premiums in the Balkan country had an average
2.3 percent annual increase over the past three years and
reached 57.3 billion dinars ($639 million) in 2011, Chief
Executive Officer Vladimir Medan said in Belgrade today. Premium
growth may remain weak this year and next, before picking up on
an estimated economic expansion of at least four percent by the
end of 2014, he said.  “Even such modest growth of economic activity will have a
multiplying effect on the growth of premiums” as it will create
more disposable income for life insurances and greater demand by
business that will want to insure their assets, Medan said in an
interview. “Considering the low base and the generally
underdeveloped market, there is good potential.”  The  International Monetary Fund  forecast Serbian economic
growth at 0.5 percent this year and 3 percent next year. The
economy contracted 1.3 percent in the first quarter amid a
frozen agreement with the IMF and weak demand for Serbian
exports in the European Union because of the sovereign-debt
crisis. Gross written premiums rose 1.4 percent in 2011,
compared with a 1.6 percent economic growth rate.  Serbia’s insurance market is dominated by three insurers
including  Dunav Osiguranje AD (DNOS) ,  DDOR Novi Sad AD (DDNS)  and  Delta
Osiguranje AD (DEOS) , a unit of  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , which
control more than half of the market.  Low Penetration  Penetration is now low “even by regional standards” as
all premiums equal just 1.8 percent of  Serbia ’s gross domestic
product, he said. “We see that as an opportunity to increase
our share of the market.”  Basler started its Serbian operation as a greenfield
investment in 2009 and has invested 15 million euros since then.
It now has a market share of less than 1 percent.  “Property insurance and life policies are the two segments
that will have the strongest growth” over the next six years,
during which the insurer plans to control as much as 5 percent
of the market, he said. Life policies accounted for 17.4 percent
of all premiums in Serbia last year, from 16.5 percent in 2010.  Life policies combined with long-term saving plans for
individuals may also benefit from growing awareness that
Serbia’s dominant, state-run pension  fund  may no longer be the
safe bet it once was, Medan said.  The Serbian budget currently helps cover the cost of almost
half of all pensions the state fund pays to some 1.68 million
retirees, while just over 1.7 million people in the country of
7.12 million have formal employment and make the mandatory
contributions to the pay-as-you-go fund, Medan said.  With the median age being above 40 years, “the demographic
picture is not promising, so more people realize they themselves
need to take care of their financial safety,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  