-- BMC Buys Time as Sale Push Lifts Stock Most Since ’08: Real M&A
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-05-18T04:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/bmc-buys-time-as-sale-push-lifts-stock-most-since-08-real-m-a.html
BMC Software Inc. (BMC) ’s biggest stock
rally in more than three years doesn’t mean the company is going
to agree to a takeover just yet.  BMC rose 8.7 percent on May 14, the most since October
2008, after shareholder Elliott Associates LP urged the company
to pursue a sale. The maker of software to manage corporate
 computer networks  said “now is not the right time” to sell and
adopted defenses against unwanted takeovers as it  trades  more
cheaply relative to free cash flow than 89 percent of U.S.
software companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After BMC posted the fifth-steepest  drop  in the Bloomberg
Americas Software Index since last year’s  high , investors would
need a 37 percent premium to the stock’s 20-day average to
recover those losses. While its enterprise software as well as
margins that are double the industry median may lure Dell Inc.,
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  or private equity, BMC is unlikely to get the $60-
a-share bids right now that it would probably consider, said  RBC
Capital Markets . A purchase of the $6.8 billion company would
already be the biggest U.S. software acquisition since the start
of the financial crisis, even without a premium, the data show.  “If you come out and say, ‘We’ll sell it immediately,’ it
would almost seem like you’re desperate,” David Rudow, a
Minneapolis-based analyst for Thrivent Asset Management, said in
a telephone interview. “You’ve got to hold out. There are not a
lot of buyers out there that could even afford to do it. I do
not in any way fault them for saying no deal. It’s not like it’s
mismanaged.”  Thrivent, which oversaw $75.8 billion as of February, owned
 BMC shares  as of March 31, a regulatory filing showed.  ‘Stockholder-Unfriendly Entrenchment’  On May 14, Houston-based BMC said Elliott had amassed a
more than 5 percent stake and would seek five board seats and
push for a sale. That prompted the company to adopt a
stockholder rights plan to guard against hostile takeovers.  Tom Johnson , a spokesman for Elliott, declined to comment
on whether Elliott has received interest from potential buyers
for BMC. He referred to a letter from Jesse Cohn, a portfolio
manager at Elliott, that was sent to the company on May 15.  “It is Elliott’s firm belief that BMC is currently
attractive to multiple strategic acquirers,” Cohn wrote. “We
believe BMC could be attractive to private equity firms, and
that such a transaction could serve as another pathway to
deliver certain, premium value to stockholders.”  Elliott, which oversees more than $20 billion, also
criticized BMC’s board in the letter for implementing the poison
pill, calling the move “a stockholder-unfriendly entrenchment
mechanism generally derided as an instrument of poor corporate
governance.”  No Sale Committee  BMC said that while it “always is open to alternatives
that fully reflect the value and prospects of the company,” the
board determined that forming a special committee to pursue a
sale isn’t in investors’ best interests at this time.  When asked if BMC has been approached by any buyers and at
what price it would consider selling, a representative for the
company declined to comment beyond its press release and the
letter to Elliott this week.  BMC sells  software  that lets information technology
departments better manage fleets of computer servers and
mainframes, configuring new machines with the software they
require and applying updates to older ones. The company is
divided into a unit that makes software for managing networks of
computer servers, and another group for mainframe products.  ‘More Time’  Shares of BMC had fallen  29 percent  from its one-year high
of $56.50 in July through last week, before Elliott’s stake was
disclosed. The drop was the fifth-largest in the 42-company
 Bloomberg Americas Software Index. (BUSSFTW)  BMC’s decline wiped out $3.5
billion in market value as higher-than-expected attrition rates
reduced the average tenure and experience level of its sales
force and hurt productivity.  Even after this week’s total  stock gain  of 4.9 percent, the
company was valued yesterday at 9.4 times its cash from
operations in the last 12 months after deducting capital
expenses. That’s less than half the median valuation of 20.4
times free cash flow for U.S. software makers with market values
greater than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The poison pill “gives management more time,” Matthew Hedberg, an analyst at RBC in  Minneapolis , said in a phone
interview. “It doesn’t force them to do something that’s not in
what they would say is their shareholders’ best interest.
Fundamentally, they feel the stock price has upside from here
and shouldn’t be sold at a price based off of sort of trough
execution.”  High Margins  After  net income  declined 12 percent in fiscal 2012,
analysts estimate that BMC will post record  profit  of $466
million next year, which ends in March 2014. BMC’s  operating
margin  of 25 percent of sales is almost double the industry
median, the data show.  “When you look at the operating margins of the company,
they’re already pretty good, so it’s not like this company has
been terribly managed,” Ben Rogoff, a London-based  fund manager 
who helps oversee about $1 billion in technology assets at Polar
Capital Partners LLC, said in a phone interview.  Elliott has been active in advocating for technology
industry deals in the past. Novell Inc. agreed to be bought by
Attachmate Corp. for more than $2 billion in November 2010 after
Elliott’s initial bid pushed the company to sell itself.  Strategic buyers, including Oracle and  Dell (DELL) , may be
attracted to a takeover of BMC because of its expanding service
management business, which accounted for  62 percent  of the
company’s $2.2 billion of revenue last year, said RBC’s Hedberg.  Dell, Oracle  “It’s a very attractive asset that they have and it’s a
faster growing business,” Hedberg said. “It plays a very
prominent role in today’s data centers.”  Dell, which holds almost $15 billion in cash and short-term
investments, may only be interested in the one unit, without the
mainframe business, Hedberg said.  With almost $30 billion in cash and short-term investments,
Oracle “could probably just buy it writing a check,” Richard J. Moroney, chief investment officer at Horizon Investment Services
LLC in Hammond,  Indiana , said in a phone interview. “It’s right
in their sweet spot in terms of big enough to move the dial a
little bit and certainly very digestible.”  David Frink , a spokesman for  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell,
said the company doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked
whether it would be interested in buying BMC.  Deborah Hellinger ,
a spokeswoman for  Redwood City , California-based Oracle, didn’t
respond to a phone call or e-mail requesting comment.  ‘It’s Expensive’  Another alternative would be to divest the mainframe
computer software business, Polar Capital’s Rogoff said. That
unit accounted for about 38 percent of the company’s sales last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A private-equity firm may target BMC for its  cash flow ,
Moroney said. After deducting capital expenses, the company
generated cash from its operations in the past year equal to
about 10.7 percent of its stock price. That compares with an
average free  cash flow  yield of 5.2 percent for comparable
software companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  BMC’s $6.8 billion market value would rank the company as
the eighth-largest U.S. software acquisition on record, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It would be the industry’s largest
transaction since October 2007 -- at the start of the financial
crisis, the data show.  “It’s expensive on an absolute basis and it’s obviously
much more difficult to sell something that will end up being $8
billion to $9 billion with a premium attached to it,” Thrivent’s
Rudow said. “The deal is so big, there’s only a handful of
potential acquirers out there who could do it.”  Takeover Price  It would be hard for BMC’s board to reject an offer as high
as $60 a share because stockholders would “jump at a chance to
sell this if there really was a good offer,” said Horizon’s
Moroney, who said his firm sold its BMC shares in April. A bid
at that level would be 42 percent more than the stock’s closing
price of $42.38 yesterday.  While RBC’s Hedberg says $60 a share is a fair price based
on his sum-of-the-parts analysis, the company is unlikely to get
such an offer.  “I don’t think right now anybody is really in the position
to offer them $60,” Hedberg said. “I don’t think it’s realistic
at this point.”  It would be “a stretch” for a buyer to pay even $55 a share
because BMC’s high margins leave less room for improvement, said
Thrivent’s Rudow. That would even be less than the stock’s 2011
peak of $56.50.  “This would definitely fit into that basket of assets that,
on a three-year view, you wouldn’t expect to see as a standalone
entity,” Polar Capital’s Rogoff said. Still, management is
thinking now that “somebody wants to ‘steal’ the company from us
before we’ve been given a proper chance to show what we can do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 