-- Bovespa Futures Gain on Cheapest Valuation in Four Months
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-05-18T21:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/bovespa-futures-advance-on-cheapest-valuations-in-four-months.html
The Bovespa index snapped its longest
losing streak in 10 years as the cheapest valuations since
January spurred speculation the rout was excessive.  Vale SA (VALE3)  rose the most in five weeks after saying it expects
a recovery in iron ore prices in the second half of the year.
Retailer Lojas Renner SA advanced as traders stepped up bets on
interest rate cuts after a report showed Brazil’s economy
unexpectedly contracted in March.  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos
e Participacoes (PDGR3)  led declines on the  BM&F Bovespa Real Estate
Index (IMOBBV) , which dropped to a seven-month low.  The Bovespa added 0.9 percent to 54,513.16 at the close in
Sao Paulo, paring its weekly decline to 8.3 percent. Brazilian
stocks entered a  bear market  yesterday after tumbling 21 percent
from this year’s high on March 13. The benchmark trades at 9
times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
the lowest since Jan. 2.  “Some stocks look cheaper, and given how fast the market
plunged in the past few days, a short-term rebound was
expected,” Jose Luiz Garcia, who helps manage 3.2 billion reais
($1.6 billion) at Mercatto Gestao de Recursos, said by phone
from  Rio de Janeiro . “Still, I don’t think we’re seeing a
sustained recovery. The outlook for growth seems to be getting
worse everywhere.”  Thirty-eight stocks rose on the Bovespa today while 28
slid. The real weakened 0.8 percent to 2.0238 per  U.S. dollar .  Vale Advances  Vale rose 2.6 percent to 35.70 reais. The world’s largest
iron-ore producer expects  China ’s economy to grow almost 8.5
percent this year, Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira told
reporters at an event in Rio de Janeiro today. The company
expects a recovery in iron ore prices in the second half after
increased supplies from Australia and Brazil caused a recent
decline, Jose Carlos Martins, the company’s head of ferrous and
strategy, said at the same event.  Brazil ’s seasonally adjusted economic activity index fell
0.35 percent in March from the previous month, the central bank
said today. Economists expected a 0.49 percent increase,
according to the median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  In the Brazilian interest-rate futures market, yields on
most contracts fell after the central bank data were released.
The yield on the contract due in January dropped four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.75 percent.  “The economic activity index signals the slowdown may be
deeper than the market expected, which increases the odds that
policy makers will keep lowering  interest rates  further,”
Gustavo Mendonca, an economist Oren Investimentos, said by phone
from Rio de Janeiro.  Renner, Hering  Lojas Renner SA jumped 3.5 percent to 58.60 reais.  Cia.
Hering (HGTX3) , Brazil’s second-biggest clothing retailer by market
value, rose 1.6 percent to 42.80 reais.  PDG, Brazil’s largest homebuilder by sales, tumbled 7
percent to 3.17 reais, pushing its weekly decline to a record 30
percent, as investors kept selling after first-quarter results
missed estimates.  “There was a lot of disappointment among investors about
homebuilders’ results, so everybody is adapting to a scenario of
higher labor costs and lower profits,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who
helps oversee 70 million reais at Leme Investimentos in
Florianopolis, Brazil, said in a telephone interview today.  PDG posted on Monday adjusted net income of 49.8 million
reais for the first three months of the year, according to an e-
mailed statement. The mean estimate of five analysts was for an
adjusted profit of 135.4 million reais, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  lost 2.5 percent to 5.39 reais today,
the lowest in a month. Brookfield Incorporacoes SA fell 1.6
percent to 3.65 reais. The BM&F Bovespa Real Estate Index
tumbled 2.6 percent to 735.70 and declined 12 percent this week.  Bear Market  The MSCI BRIC Index also entered a bear market yesterday,
having tumbled 20 percent from this year’s high in March. The
plunge left equities in the biggest emerging economies trading
at the lowest levels since 2009 versus global shares.  Stocks in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and China are trading at
relatively attractive valuations and may rally should oil prices
climb or if economic growth picks up in China, said Geoffrey Dennis, Citigroup Inc.’s global emerging-market strategist in
 New York .  “Markets are quite cheap,” he said in a telephone
interview. “They’re good long-term values. We’ve just got to
wait for individual triggers to come through.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  