-- Brainless ‘Battleship’; ‘Hysteria’; ‘Expect’: Greg Evans
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/brainless-battleship-hysteria-epect-greg-evans.html
Scraping the bottom of  Hasbro (HAS) ’s toy
box,  Universal Pictures  and director Peter Berg assemble
 “Battleship,”  a movie as brainless as summer blockbusters get.  You’d need the expertise of a corporate branding lawyer to
detect much similarity between the high-decibel, low-I.Q.
“Battleship” and the Baby Boomer board game it’s supposedly
based on.  Looking like  “Transformers”  (another Hasbro product) and
countless sci-fi video games, “Battleship” is a two-hour
onslaught of explosions, pitting the U.S. Navy against mole-
faced aliens and giant, mechanized spaceships.  The dimwitted script by Jon Hoeber and Erich Hoeber is only
funny when it’s not trying to be. The intentional jokes are
along the lines of a jittery nerd spotting a Navy veteran with
prosthetic legs and asking, “Is he a cyborg?”  Taylor Kitsch, no better than he was in the flop “ John
Carter ,” stars as a ne’er-do-well lieutenant who finds himself
leading the planet’s defense against robotic hordes.  The cast has fine bone structure (only Kitsch could
relegate Alexander Skarsgard to a wingman) and a one-from-each-
group cultural diversity that amplifies the film’s recruitment-
ad vibe.  Liam Neeson , as a no-nonsense admiral, cashes a
paycheck with a flat, embarrassed performance.  Singer Rihanna, in her acting debut, is the film’s gift to
costar Brooklyn Decker, the ex-model who seems accomplished by
comparison.  “Battleship,” from Universal Pictures, is playing across
the country. Rating: *  ‘Hysteria’  The vibrator gets a heavy-handed workout in “Hysteria,” a
modest costume comedy that would have benefitted from a lighter
touch.  Based (loosely, one assumes) on real events -- and not to
be confused with Sarah Ruhl’s similarly-themed, much superior
2009 play “In the Next Room (or The Vibrator Play”) --director
Tanya Wexler’s film stars  Hugh Dancy  as Mortimer Granville, the
English physician who invented the vibrator to treat hysteria,
that scourge of Victorian womanhood.  Maladies real and imagined were chalked up to what was
thought to be an affliction of the uterus. The more progressive
doctors favored “paroxysm” as a cure.  Indeed, poor Dr. Granville nearly loses the use of a hand
providing one paroxysm after another to the patients crowding
his office. What to do but invent a device to take the heat?  Firebrand Feminist  Firebrand feminist  Charlotte  Dalrymple (Maggie Gyllenhaal)
is having none of it. She decries hysteria as a “catch all”
diagnosis designed to pathologize women’s needs.  Granville’s a goner, of course, and not just because
Gyllenhaal can’t be less than lovely. “Hysteria,” charming as
it is, pushes the romantic comedy buttons too forcefully to fool
anyone into thinking it’s the real thing.  “Hysteria,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , is playing in
New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: **1/2  ‘What to Expect’  “What to Expect When You’re Expecting”  cribs its title
from a bestselling parenting guide and its jokes from
generations of sitcoms.  Slick, steadily amusing and instantly forgettable, the
ensemble comedy follows five couples as they prepare for
parenthood. Nervous dads, grouchy moms and lots of talk about
miracles, inconvenient urination and “the glow” arrive
precisely on time.  Directed by Kirk Jones with a screenplay by Shauna Cross
and Heather Hach (“inspired” by Heidi Murkoff’s non-fiction
bestseller), “What to Expect” drops only a few how-to factoids
(to circumcise or not?), but mainly pokes gentle fun at the
emotional chaos wrought by those gestating tots.  The interconnected stories are set mostly in Atlanta
(though I counted only two Southern accents, and those are
played for laughs). Wendy (Elizabeth Banks) teaches women how to
breast feed, though her first pregnancy puts her eggheaded
theories to the test.  She’s married to Gary (Ben Falcone), a shlubby nice guy
constantly overshadowed by his competitive, race-car star dad
Ramsey ( Dennis Quaid ), whose much younger wife (Brooklyn Decker,
better here than in “Battleship”) is pregnant with twins.  Cameron Diaz  and Matthew Morrison play TV celebrities with
a tabloid-fodder pregnancy;  Jennifer Lopez  and Rodrigo Santoro
are an infertile couple planning an Ethiopian adoption; and Anna
Kendrick and Chace Crawford, in the best storyline, are
twentysomethings coping with the unplanned results of a one
night stand.  Getting less screen time than trailers suggest,  Chris Rock 
heads a support group of stroller-pushing dads lamenting their
long-gone freedom.  “Don’t talk about what we walk about,” Rock’s griping dad
warns a newcomer. The code of silence isn’t really necessary --
we’ve heard it all before.  “What to Expect When You’re Expecting,” from Lionsgate,
is playing across the U.S. Rating: **  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history and Zinta Lundborg on weekend entertainment.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 