-- Brazil’s Arabica Buyers Get Bigger Discount for 2012-13 Beans
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-18T09:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/brazil-s-arabica-buyers-get-bigger-discount-for-2012-13-beans.html
Buyers of arabica coffee from Brazil,
the world’s largest-producer, are getting a bigger discount for
beans from the new season that starts in July as exporters don’t
need to buy now, according to Flavour Coffee.  Fine cup beans from the new season are trading at a
discount of 13 cents a pound to the price on the ICE Futures
U.S. exchange in  New York  for shipment from August to December,
the Rio de Janeiro-based broker said in a report e-mailed
yesterday. That compares with a discount of 8 cents a pound for
beans from the 2011-12 season, the broker said.  Buyers of good cup quality beans from the new season were
getting a discount of 22 cents a pound to the exchange price for
shipment from August to December, compared with a discount of 15
cents a pound for beans from the 2011-12 season, Flavour Coffee
data show. Fine cup beans are usually more expensive than good
cup ones because of their taste profile.  “Exporters do not seem desperate buyers but they still
need to cover their later 2011-12 crop commitments therefore
they keep in the market,” Flavour Coffee said.  Roasters are “waiting for differentials to soften even
more,” Thiago Cazarini, a broker at Varginha, Brazil-based
Cazarini Trading Co., wrote in a separate report yesterday.  Rains that reached arabica growing regions this week
suspended harvesting, Flavour Coffee said, adding that more
rainfall is expected in the next seven days. Some beans from the
new season that were drying on patios may be affected, Cazarini
said.  Robusta Premium  Buyers of robusta coffee from  Brazil  were paying a premium
for their beans even as about 30 percent of the new crop has
been harvested and supplies are improving, according to the
Flavour Coffee report.  Conilons, as Brazilian robusta coffee is known, are trading
at a premium of 2 cents a pound ($44 a metric ton) to the price
on the NYSE Liffe exchange in London for June shipment,
according to the broker.  “Prices firmed up further despite the great availability
due to increasing arrivals of new crop,” the broker said. Local
roasters accelerated purchases and exporters were also buying,
according to the report.  Robusta coffee for July delivery was up 0.5 percent to
$2,198 a ton by 10:39 a.m. on NYSE Liffe. Arabica coffee for
July delivery was little changed at $1.803 a pound on ICE
Futures U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 