-- Brazil Real Drops to Three-Year Low, Pares Decline as Swaps Sold
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-05-18T21:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/brazil-rate-futures-yields-plunge-to-new-low-real-strengthens.html
Brazil’s real fell to a three-year
low, prompting the central bank to auction currency swaps for
the first time since March to stem the losses.  The currency is still the biggest loser this year among the
16 most-traded counterparts tracked by Bloomberg, having dropped
7.8 percent after the central bank purchased dollars to keep it
weak and cut borrowing costs and as turmoil in  Europe  diminished
the prospects for Brazilian assets  “They’re content enough with a weaker currency as long as
it’s gradual and orderly,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said by phone
from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Today might have been too much for
them.”  Brazil’s currency dropped as much as 2.4 percent to 2.0573
per dollar, the weakest level since May 2009, before trading
down 0.8 percent to 2.0238 per dollar today. The real has fallen
2.8 percent this week, the most since March, in a sixth
consecutive five-day decline.  The central bank auctioned all of the 13,000 swap contracts
due in June offered today, according to a statement published on
its website. A central bank official in Brasilia declined to
comment.  Brazilian interest-rate futures contract yields fell to a
record low after a report showed the largest Latin American
economy unexpectedly shrank, boosting speculation policy makers
will extend rate cuts.  Interest Rate-Futures  The yield on the futures contract due in January 2014
decreased 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 8.07
percent after earlier touching a record low 8.05 percent. The
yield has dropped 40 basis points this week.  Brazil ’s seasonally adjusted economic activity index fell
0.35 percent in March from the previous month, the central bank
said today. Only one of the analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
had forecast a contraction. The index rose 0.91 percent from the
same month a year ago, compared with a 2.4 percent expansion
projected by analysts.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said turmoil in
the financial markets caused by Europe’s debt crisis may last
another two years, as Group of Eight leaders prepared to discuss
 Greece  and its impact on the global economy.  “The real reached 2 per dollar because the economic
outlook is getting worse,” Sidnei Nehme, a director at NGO
Corretora in  Sao Paulo , said by telephone. “With the crisis
abroad becoming more serious, it diminishes the outlook for
flows into Brazil.”  Target Rate  Policy makers have reduced Brazil’s target lending rate by
3.5 percentage points since Aug. 31 to 9 percent, the most among
the world’s 25 largest economies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Policy makers may reduce the benchmark below the
record low 8.75 percent to 8 percent by the end of August 2012,
trading in interest-rate futures shows.  The currency has traded weaker than 1.90 per dollar since
April 30 as the central bank bought $7.2 billion in the  spot
market  last month, the most since $8.4 billion purchased in
March 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  