-- Brazil Says Economic Growth Recovering After Weak First Quarter
-- B y   A d r i a n a   A r a i   a n d   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 2012-05-21T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/brazil-2012-growth-recovering-after-weak-start-mantega-says-1-.html
The depreciation of the Brazilian
real, the worst-performing major currency this year, is helping
reignite economic growth in Brazil after a “weak” first
quarter, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  The real’s 7.8 percent decline against the  U.S. dollar  this
year is reducing imports and helping revive the manufacturing
industry, reducing the need for further stimulus, Mantega said in
a May 18 interview at his Sao Paulo office.  “In the past six months the real has weakened and,
therefore, the competitiveness of Brazilian manufacturers is
gradually improving,” Mantega, 63, said. “The economy grew
little, was weak from January to March. April wasn’t great
either. In May, we are feeling an improvement.”  Economic growth in Brazil, the world’s sixth biggest
economy, has been recovering more slowly than anticipated even
as the government steps up interest rate cuts and reduces taxes.
The economy contracted in each of the first three months of the
year, according to central bank estimates, surprising analysts
who expected a rebound in March. Definitive first-quarter gross
domestic product data are scheduled to be released next month.  Mantega said GDP growth this year will be higher than the
2.7 percent expansion in 2011, adding the economy will expand
at a 4.5 percent annual pace in the second half. Without
deterioration in the external outlook, Mantega said there’s no
need for further stimulus.  Bank Reserve Requirements  The measures taken so far “would be enough, given the
trend we are in and as long as the external situation doesn’t
deteriorate,” Mantega said.  The government is ready to take further action if needed,
he said, adding  Brazil  is well prepared to weather a worst-case
scenario because international and bank reserves are larger than
in 2008 and fiscal accounts are solid. The central bank could
reduce bank reserve requirements if necessary, he cited as an
example, declining to elaborate further.  In April, President  Dilma Rousseff  ordered tax cuts and
other stimulus measures worth about 65 billion reais. The plan
included an additional 45 billion reais for the state
development bank to step up subsidized loans.  The real dropped 15 percent in the past three months, after
having rallied in the first two months of the year. The
Brazilian currency fell 0.75 percent to 2.0238 reais per U.S.
dollar May 18.  Mantega said the weaker real isn’t a concern for the
government and will have only a small impact on inflation, which
has exceeded its 4.5 percent target since August 2010, even as
it slows. Inflation, as measured by the benchmark index,
decelerated to 5.1 percent in April, the lowest in 19 months.  GDP Downgrades  Brazil’s seasonally-adjusted economic activity index, a
proxy for GDP, fell 0.35 percent in March, after dropping in
January and February, the central bank said May 18. The result
was worse than predicted by all 18 economists in a Bloomberg
survey, whose median forecast was for growth of 0.49 percent.
The report prompted Banco Fator SA and Gradual Investimentos to
cut growth forecasts for this year.  Banco Fator will reduce its 2012 growth estimate to less
than 2.5 percent from 2.7 percent, Jose Francisco Goncalves, the
bank’s chief economist, said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo.  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual
Investimentos, cut his 2012 growth forecast to 2.3 percent, from
2.7 percent.  A drop in  industrial production  is offsetting increases in
retail sales and slowing the economy’s recovery. Industrial
output contracted in the first three months of the year on an
annual basis, while retail sales rose in January, February and
March.  The economy expanded 2.7 percent last year, its second
worst performance since 2003 and less than  Germany ’s 3 percent
and  Sweden ’s 4 percent.  Mantega said that, while the country will grow less than
his initial 4.5 percent forecast, expansion will be faster than
in 2011, and inflation will be less.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Arai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  