-- Brown Estimate May Be Off $900 Million, Analyst Says
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-05-19T00:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/brown-estimate-may-be-off-900-million-analyst-says.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
plan to close a $15.7 billion  budget deficit  may overstate
revenue by $900 million because it depends too much on “highly
uncertain” funds from defunct redevelopment agencies, the
nonpartisan legislative analyst said.  While most of Brown’s revenue forecast is “reasonable,”
the governor’s reliance on $1.4 billion in funds from
redevelopment agencies, which were dissolved in February, makes
the budget vulnerable, the Legislative Analyst’s Office said
today in a report.  “We find that the administration’s estimate of liquid
assets available for distribution is subject to considerable
uncertainty,” the report said.  California, the world’s ninth-largest economy, lost more
than 1 million jobs in the recession, costing the most populous
U.S. state 24 percent of its revenue. Brown announced a revised
spending plan May 14 after he said the deficit had swelled from
$9.2 billion in January, mostly due to lower-than-projected tax
collections.  The 74-year-old Democrat called for higher sales and income
taxes, a 5 percent cut in employee pay and a $3 billion
reduction in social services for the year beginning July 1.
Funds for schools and community colleges would be cut by $5.5
billion if voters reject the tax increases.  Tax Gains  Brown, who served two terms as governor from 1975 to 1983,
intends to tap the financial accounts of the former
redevelopment agencies, which capture incremental tax gains on
improvements made in blighted areas.  H.D. Palmer, a spokesman for Brown’s Finance Department,
said the state budgeted conservatively on redevelopment funds by
including only $1.4 billion of the total $2 billion in the
2012-2013 budget.  As the state’s roughly 400 former redevelopment agencies
shut down their operations, they must report their assets to the
Finance Department by the end of June, Palmer said by telephone.  “Whether it’s our estimate for the rest of the year or the
legislative analyst’s estimate, this issue is going to be put to
rest before next year’s budget,” Palmer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  