-- Brown Boosts Bullet Train While Cutting Welfare for Moms
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-05-18T12:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/brown-boosts-bullet-train-while-cutting-welfare-for-moms.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  is
seeking a 38,000 percent spending increase for a proposed high-
speed rail system, even as he plans to raise taxes, cut state
worker pay and reduce social programs to narrow a $15.7 billion
deficit.  Brown’s budget, revised this week, includes $6.1 billion in
infrastructure costs for the first 130 miles (209 kilometers) of
the project to link  San Francisco  and Los Angeles. The funding
request, which the state’s rail authority submitted to the
Legislature in April, would boost spending on the project from
about $15.9 million proposed in January, according to the state
Finance Department.  California is the only U.S. state working to lay tracks for
trains to run as fast as 220 miles an hour, after Congress cut
off 2012 funds for such projects. In January, a state
legislative review panel, questioning the long-term funding,
recommended against selling debt to start the 800-mile system.  “This is a living economy,” Brown said May 14 at a news
conference in Los Angeles on the budget changes. “We’re going
to have to build freeways and/or we can build high-speed rail,
which is less than half the cost of expanding freeways, runways
and airports.”  “I’m not here to tell you that  California  is on the
decline,” the 74-year-old Democrat said. “We have to build for
the future.”  January Proposal  The governor’s January budget proposal earmarked about
$15.9 million for high-speed rail, none of it for
infrastructure. The May proposal boosts expenditures on non-
infrastructure items such as administration and contracts by 55
percent, to $24.6 million, and incorporates the $6.1 billion in
right-of-way and building costs. Of that, $2.8 billion is from
state bonds, according to the Finance Department.  In an interview with  CBS News  today, Brown said he’s also
going to propose a $14 billion water project for the state.  “California is not stopping,” he said. “We’re not some
tired country of  Europe . We’re a buoyant, dynamic society that
will both discipline itself on a daily basis, but it will, on
the long term, plant the seeds of future growth.”  In April, the California High-Speed Rail Authority
estimated that the project would cost $68.4 billion, down from
the $98.5 billion it projected in November. Funding would depend
on a mix of federal grants, $9.95 billion in bonds authorized by
voters in 2008, and proceeds from auctioning tradeable
allowances that permit industries to release carbon if they
can’t meet requirements to lower their pollution.  Highly Speculative  The state’s nonpartisan legislative analyst said April 17
that financing remained “highly speculative,” with only the
bonds and $3.5 billion in federal funds pledged to date.  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood met last week with
state officials including the governor in  Sacramento  to press
for action. To receive the federal money, the Legislature and
Brown must approve the state’s match for the project by Sept.
30. California then must spend the money by 2017.  “I wanted to be sure that I personally deliver the message
that President Obama’s administration is committed to high-speed
rail in California,” LaHood told reporters, according to Justin Nisly, a spokesman for the department. “We have made a
commitment of over $3 billion. We want to make sure that our
partners here realize what is at stake.”  The state’s commitment should be “reflected in their
budget,” he said.  Bond Sales  California has sold $501.3 million of the high-speed rail
bonds so far,  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for Treasurer Bill Lockyer, said yesterday by e-mail. By June 30, the end of the
fiscal year, the state will have spent $49.6 million in interest
on the bonds, he said. Debt service for the bonds sold so far
will total $700.9 million through 2041, according to Dresslar.  The interest payments are the only money for high-speed
rail budgeted from the state’s general fund, said H.D. Palmer, a
Finance Department spokesman. The general fund is used to pay
for education, prisons, health care for the poor and state
parks, among other things.  The general-fund deficit swelled to $15.7 billion from $9.2
billion in January due mostly to lower-than-expected  tax
revenue , Brown said May 14.  No Deficit Help  Abandoning the high-speed rail project wouldn’t narrow the
deficit, Palmer said by telephone.  “This doesn’t play into the closing of the $15.7 billion
gap,” he said. “The issues are all on the general-fund side of
the house. You can’t legally redirect bond funds to go to the
general fund.”  Brown proposed a 38-hour government workweek to reduce
payroll, and cuts of $1.2 billion from health care for the poor,
$1.1 billion from welfare and in-home help for the elderly and
disabled, and $500 million from courts.  The governor is also asking voters to temporarily raise the
statewide  sales tax , already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5
percent from 7.25 percent. It would also boost taxes on income
starting at $250,000. Those making $1 million or more, now
assessed at a rate of 10.3 percent, would pay 13.3 percent, the
most of any state.  The bond funds, federal grants and debt service ultimately
all represent taxpayer contributions, said state Senator Doug LaMalfa, a Richvale Republican who co-wrote a proposed ballot
measure to freeze bond funding for the project.  California can scarcely afford even the interest payments
while slashing funds for schools, prisons and other services,
LaMalfa said by telephone yesterday.  “I can’t understand with all of that debt, prisoners being
released and stuffed into county jails, and cuts to schools, why
we’re still pursuing this boondoggle,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  