-- Bund Yields Climb From Record Lows Before G-8
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-05-18T15:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/bund-yields-climb-from-record-lows-before-g-8-spain-bonds-rise.html
German 10-year bunds fell, pushing
yields up from a record low, as investors bet price gains were
overdone before Group-of-Eight leaders meet to discuss ways to
counter  Europe ’s financial woes.  Spanish and Italian bonds advanced as German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said it was important for Europeans
to form a common position on the debt crisis as quickly as
possible. Yields on two-, five-, and 30-year German securities
earlier fell to all-time lows after Moody’s Investors Service
lowered the credit ratings of 16 Spanish banks, spurring demand
for Europe’s safest government debt. Separately,  Greece ’s credit
grade was lowered one level by  Fitch Ratings .  “In the absence of further negative impulses, markets
appeared to experience a modest bout of profit-taking,” Sercan Eraslan, a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,
 Germany , wrote in a note to clients. Investors will “wait to
see what the weekend news flow will bring,” he wrote.  The German 10-year yield climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.43 percent at 4:02 p.m.  London  time,
after falling to 1.396 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg began
tracking the data in 1989. The rate has declined eight basis
points since May 11. The 1.75 percent bond due July 2022 fell
0.18, or 1.80 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,271) face amount, to
102.97.  The  two-year note  yield slid to 0.031 percent, while the
five-year rate dropped to 0.463 percent, also records. The 30-
year bund yield slumped to an all-time low of 2.046 percent.  Technical Indicators  Ten-year bund futures fell from a record after a technical
indicator used by traders showed the securities were poised to
change direction. The contract expiring in June weakened 0.3
percent to 143.56, after reaching 144.06.  The 14-day relative-strength index for the contract climbed
to 77.6 yesterday. It has remained above the level of 70 since
May 8, a signal that the price may be set to fall.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and fellow European leaders
will again face pressure from their G-8 counterparts to do more
to quell the crisis after speculation that Greece will exit the
euro wiped about $4 trillion from global equity markets this
month. The U.S., which hosts the summit for leaders of the G-8
nations beginning today, still faces economic challenges from
the “damaging” situation in Europe, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday.  “In recent years we haven’t been quick enough” at
reaching a common position, Schaeuble said in the interview
broadcast today on France’s Europe 1 radio.  Budget Strains  Spain ’s  10-year bond  yield dropped six basis points to 6.25
percent after rising as high as 6.38 percent. It was at 6.01
percent on May 11. Similar-maturity Italian yields declined four
basis points to 5.78 percent. They earlier climbed to 5.91
percent.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
were among lenders cut by Moody’s, which cited economic weakness
and Spain’s budget strains.  “We saw a classic flight to quality after the bank
downgrades,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “They
were more aggressive than expected, and the  ratings agencies 
will be looking at the banking systems of other euro-zone
countries.”  The cost of insuring Spanish government debt against
default rose to a record high. Credit-default swaps on Spain
rose as much as nine basis points to 560.  Irish Volatility  Fitch cut Greece’s long-term credit rating to CCC from B-,
citing heightened risk that the nation may not be able to
sustain membership of the monetary union.  Volatility on Ireland’s bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets followed by  Portugal , according to measures of 10-year
bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps.  Irish two-year notes slipped for an 11th day, pushing the
yield 17 basis points higher to 6.98 percent. The rate reached
7.37 percent, the most since Jan. 12. Irish  government
securities  have declined amid speculation voters will reject a
referendum this month that would enshrine planned European
fiscal rules in national law.  Longer-maturity German bonds have outperformed shorter-
dated notes this week with the difference in two- and 10-year
yields shrinking to the narrowest in more than six months.  The  spread  was little changed today at 137 basis points.
That’s down from 143 basis points on May 11 and matches the
least since Nov. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
based on closing prices. It may struggle to breach the November
low of 133 basis points, and encounter support at the 200-day
moving average at 158 basis points, the data show.  German debt has returned 3 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds lost 3.6 percent,
and Italian securities gained 8.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  