-- Cameron Urges Hollande to Back Eurobonds, Rejects Tobin Tax
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-05-18T21:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/cameron-urges-hollande-to-back-eurobonds-rejects-tobin-tax.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
used his first meeting with new French President  Francois Hollande  to urge him to back euro region-wide bonds and to warn
that he’ll veto any attempt to introduce a European Union
financial transactions tax.  The two leaders met at the British Embassy in  Washington ,
ahead of the Group of Eight summit at Camp David. For Hollande,
who is arguing for more taxes on people and companies, and
Cameron, two years into an austerity package, it was a chance to
find common ground.  Before the meeting, Cameron said proposals for a EU
financial transaction tax were a bad idea. British officials
have argued that the so-called “ Tobin Tax ” would drive finance
houses away from  London .  “I’m very clear, we are not going to get growth in Europe
or Britain by introducing a new tax that would actually hit
people as well as financial institutions,” Cameron told
reporters. “I don’t think it is a sensible measure. I will not
support it.”  Afterward, he played down differences with Hollande,
particularly in dealing with the debt crisis. He reiterated
their joint commitment to shrinking deficits while promoting
growth.  “We both want to see stability international markets, we
both want to see countries deal with their deficits and we both
want to see economic growth,” Cameron said.  The two men also may be closer on proposals for issuing
public debt at a euro region level. Hollande during his campaign
proposed “project bonds” to raise money for public works.
Cameron in a speech yesterday endorsed that sort of “monetary
activism.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who’ll see both Cameron
and Hollande later at Camp David, opposes euro bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Chicago at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Washington at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  