-- Canada Banks Told Relying on Rules Isn’t Risk Management
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-05-18T14:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/canada-banks-told-relying-on-rules-doesn-t-equal-risk-management.html
Canada ’s  lenders  need to assume
responsibility for managing risks in lending to households and
shouldn’t rely on regulators to avoid hazards, the head of
regulation at the country’s banking watchdog said.  Lenders must “make sure they have the financial resources
to manage those risks and the institutional capacity to manage
those risks,” Mark Zelmer, assistant superintendent in charge
of regulation, said in an interview. “Anybody that was just
simply running the business and managing to OSFI expectations is
putting a lot of faith in the regulatory framework.”  The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions
released  draft guidelines  for mortgage underwriting in March
urging lenders to establish internal standards on the ability of
borrowers to service their debt and take “reasonable steps” to
verify income. The rules would also limit home equity lines of
credit to 65 percent of the value of the property.  Zelmer’s comments underscore tension between policy makers
and mortgage lenders as a booming housing market helps drive
profits at banks even as it increases their exposure to a drop
in  home prices . Analysts at CreditSights Inc. assigned an
“underperform” rating for the Canadian banking industry in a
May 15 report, citing concern that current spreads on their debt
don’t “adequately compensate” for potential risks in the
housing market.  “Ultimately, it’s the institutions that are first and
foremost responsible,” Zelmer, 51, said. “The regulatory
framework and supervision is the safety net that stands behind
that.”  Low Borrowing Costs  While Canada escaped the last housing crisis by steering
clear of subprime mortgages, low  borrowing costs  set by the  Bank
of Canada  and commercial lenders have fueled a debt surge in
Canada that now threatens the country’s recovery. Canadian
household debt levels relative to income have surpassed those in
the U.S. and the U.K.  Household debt is the biggest risk to Canada’s financial
system and necessitates prudent lending practices to help avoid
the type of crises experienced elsewhere, according to Zelmer.  “Certainly, what’s happening with rising household
indebtedness is probably the most important domestic
vulnerability facing the Canadian financial system,” Zelmer
said in the interview. “Hopefully, ours would be a benign path
as opposed to some of the history we’ve seen elsewhere.”  Approved Practices  In an April 5 speech, OSFI Superintendent Julie Dickson
 said  the regulator had found cases where lenders weren’t
following mortgage-lending practices approved by the company’s
board of directors. The agency’s proposed rules would require
boards to approve companywide mortgage policies, and senior
executives to declare annually the plans are being followed.  The rules may “have a negative impact on borrowers and
could cause mortgage costs to rise,” the Canadian Association
of Accredited Mortgage Professionals said in a written  response 
to OSFI. The association, which represents mortgage lenders,
insurers and brokers, has urged the regulator to be flexible in
imposing some of the rules.  The period for commenting on the proposals rules closed May
1. OSFI is trying to have a final version of the guidelines by
the end of June that will have “benefited from the feedback
that we’ve received,” Zelmer said.  Canadian banks, including  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and  Bank of
Montreal (BMO) , have said they’re comfortable with their exposure to
the housing market.  ‘Very Well Managed’  Royal Bank Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Nixon  said during
the May 8 Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit that lending policies
in Canada are “very well managed.” Bank of Montreal has said
it could absorb losses under an “extreme stress scenario” with
high unemployment, a “significant decline” in housing prices,
a rapid increase in  interest rates  and a drop in economic
output.  Canada’s banks have been ranked the soundest by the  World
Economic Forum  for four straight years. Four Canadian banks were
among the world’s six strongest in Bloomberg’s second annual
rankings released May 3. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce was
No. 3, followed by  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  National Bank of
Canada (NA)  and Royal Bank.  Bank exposure to a housing correction is “very
manageable” given their relatively strong financial position,
according to a May 16 report by Scotiabank analyst Kevin Choquette, who tested a scenario where  house prices  decline by
as much as 35 percent. Direct bank earnings would drop as much
as 16 percent under that scenario, the report found.  JPMorgan Loss  In the interview, Zelmer said Canadian lending standards
are “not in a situation” like the U.S. before the financial
crisis and the regulator’s objective is to be “pro-active”
with new guidelines. He said Canadian regulators may seek to
draw lessons from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  $2 billion trading loss
announced last week.  “If there are lessons to be drawn we’ll be paying close
attention to see what are the facts as opposed to all the hype
around the situation and see what that tells us in terms of the
oversight of our own institutions,” Zelmer said.  “Given past experience elsewhere, given what’s happening
in Canada, it’s incumbent on us to be very clear about what our
expectations are at this stage of the cycle,” he said.  There is evidence some OSFI officials are concerned that
banks may be vulnerable. A memo by OSFI’s manager of policy
development, Vlasios Melessanakis, obtained by Bloomberg News
under freedom-of-information law, warned that Canada’s banks
aren’t immune to collapses triggered by falling housing prices.
A spokesman for the regulator said Melessanakis’s remarks don’t
reflect the regulator’s official position and were not sent to
Dickson.  ‘Potential Vulnerability’  “We’re paying close attention to it because it is an
important potential vulnerability for the system,” Zelmer said.  In April, Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  introduced
legislation that prevents lenders from using government-insured
mortgages as collateral for bonds. Canada’s biggest covered bond
issuers have piggy-backed off government guarantees to cement
top AAA ratings for their bonds, which cut their funding costs
compared with European and Australian banks.  Flaherty has also refused to raise the C$600 billion legal
limit on mortgage insurance of the Canada Mortgage Housing
Corp., and the federal housing agency has begun rationing bulk
insurance for financial institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  