-- Canada Dollar Has Biggest Weekly Loss in 2012 on Europe
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-05-18T21:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/canadian-dollar-gains-as-stock-futures-climb-before-cpi.html
Canada’s dollar had the biggest
weekly loss this year versus its U.S. counterpart as speculation
that turmoil in  Greece  will worsen Europe’s debt crisis damped
investor appetite for riskier assets.  The currency lost 2.1 percent this week after a U.S.
factory gauge and leading indicators unexpectedly fell. It rose
today for the first time this week after Statistics Canada
reported higher inflation, bolstering the outlook for interest-
rate increases, before erasing gains as U.S. stocks reversed
advances.  “The bulk of the move lower is on  risk aversion , which has
been aggravated by weak U.S. data,” said  Camilla Sutton , head
of currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto.
“Canadian data has held up reasonably well.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, lost 0.3 percent today to
C$1.0222 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, extending the
weekly decline, which was the biggest since November. It touched
C$1.0227, the weakest level since Jan. 16. One Canadian dollar
purchases 97.83 U.S. cents.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback increased to the highest level since
Jan. 6, 10.31 percent. It fell to 6.59 percent on April 30, the
lowest since June 2007. The five-year average is 12 percent.
Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set option
prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  Bonds Fall  Ten-year Canadian government  bonds  fell for the first time
in six days, pushing the yield higher by one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.89 percent. It touched 1.873 percent
yesterday, the lowest level since December.  Two-year yields  were
little changed at 1.21 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s Index dropped 0.7 percent after
gaining as much as 0.6 percent.  The loonie had its biggest intraday jump in a week today
after  Statistics Canada  said the  consumer price index  rose
percent in April from a year ago, compared with a 1.9 percent
gain the prior month. The core inflation rate, which excludes
eight volatile components, increased to 2.1 percent after a
March gain of 1.9 percent. A Bloomberg News survey of economists
forecast that both the total and core rates would remain
unchanged at 1.9 percent.  “Inflationary concerns are potentially creating an
environment for the  Bank of Canada  to take back some of the
excess monetary stimulus,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director
of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto, in a
telephone interview. “However, that environment is being very
much driven by events outside of  Canada .”  Rate-Boost Prospect  Bank Governor  Mark Carney  said last month  interest-rate 
increases may be necessary as growth and inflation outpace his
earlier projections, and as slack disappears from the economy.
Policy makers have kept the  benchmark rate  at 1 percent since
September 2010.  Odds of a rate boost by year-end rose to 46 percent after
the inflation report, from about 41 percent yesterday, according
to Bloomberg calculations on trading in overnight index swaps.  The loonie posted its biggest intraday drop in a week
yesterday after weaker-than-forecast economic data from the
U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner. The Federal Reserve Bank
of Philadelphia’s manufacturing index was negative 5.8 this
month, the lowest reading since September, from 8.5 in April.
Readings less than zero indicate contraction in the region. The
Conference Board’s leading-indicators gauge of the U.S. outlook
for the next three to six months fell 0.1 percent in April.  Relative Strength  The  U.S. dollar  rose to 73.1 today on the 14-day relative
strength index against the Canadian currency, the highest level
since October, from 57.5 a week ago. A reading above 70 signals
an asset may be due to reverse direction.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance by the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart compared with those on a drop -- so-
called  net longs  -- was 51,005 in the week ended May 15, down
from 60,095 a week earlier, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed today.  The loonie gained 1 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Currency Indexes. The U.S. dollar
strengthened 3.4 percent.  Australia ’s dollar tumbled 5.4 percent
and Sweden’s krona dropped 2.8 percent, while the euro advanced
0.8 percent.  “The way the market has traded the Canadian dollar over
the past few weeks, it makes it clear it’s being viewed as a
safe haven relative to the Australian dollar, the euro, to the
Scandinavian currencies,”  Greg Anderson , the North American
head of Group-of-10 nations currency strategy at Citigroup Inc.,
said by phone from  New York .  Another Two Years  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said turmoil in
the financial markets caused by  Europe ’s debt crisis may last
another two years, as Group of Eight leaders prepared to discuss
Greece and its impact on the global economy. He spoke in a
recorded interview broadcast today on  France ’s Europe 1 radio.  Greek political leaders began campaigning today for the
June 17 election, the country’s second vote in six weeks, after
a rise in support for anti-austerity parties scuttled the
formation of a government.  “The big deal is Greece headlines still, and it’s probably
going to be that way for the next month,” said Citigroup’s
Anderson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  