-- Canada April Consumer Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-05-18T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/canada-april-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s  consumer price index  report for April released
by  Statistics Canada .  Consumer prices rose 2.0% in the 12 months to April, led by
increases in transportation costs. This increase followed a 1.9%
rise in March.  Energy prices increased 1.1% in the 12 months to April,
following a 5.1% rise in March. The slower increase in April was
largely attributable to smaller price gains for gasoline and
electricity, as well as price declines for natural gas (-13.9%).  The Consumer  Price Index  (CPI) excluding energy rose 2.1%
in the 12 months to April, following a 1.6% increase in March.
The upward pressure on the All-items CPI coming from energy has
eased over the last year. April marks the first month since
October 2009 in which energy prices increased at a slower rate
than the All-items CPI.  12-month change  In April, prices rose year over year in all eight major
components. Increases in transportation and food were major
contributors to the 12-month change in the CPI.  Transportation costs increased 3.2% on a year-over-year
basis in April. Prices for the purchase of passenger vehicles
went up 3.4% while gasoline prices rose 3.3%. Year-over-year
price gains were also recorded for passenger vehicle insurance
premiums.  Gasoline prices have been rising in recent months, pushing
April’s gasoline index to its highest level since July 2008.
Nevertheless, the year-over-year increase in gasoline prices in
April 2012 was the smallest since September 2010, partly because
of near-record prices in April 2011.  Prices for food rose 2.5% in April compared with the same
month a year earlier. This rise followed a 2.2% year-over-year
increase in March. Consumers paid 2.4% more for food purchased
from stores in the 12 months to April and 2.8% more for food
purchased from restaurants. Price increases were recorded for
most food items, notably for meat and cereal products.  Shelter costs increased 1.1% in the 12 months to April,
following a 1.6% rise in March. Prices declined for natural gas,
while homeowners’ replacement cost and rent increased.  In April, prices for household operations, furnishings and
equipment rose 2.6% compared with April 2011. Prices increased
for communications services.  Clothing and footwear prices rose 2.4% on a year-over-year
basis, as stores continued to offer new spring and summer wear.  The provinces  In April, year-over-year price increases in the Atlantic
provinces were among the highest in the country. Newfoundland
and Labrador posted the largest increase at 3.0%, while  Alberta 
posted the lowest.  In Alberta, consumer prices rose 0.8% in the 12 months to
April, after increasing 1.7% in March. This slower rate of
growth was largely attributable to price declines for
electricity and natural gas.  Consumer prices rose 2.4% year over year in  Quebec , 2.1% in
Ontario, and 1.6% in British Columbia. Price increases for food
purchased from stores, gasoline and the purchase of passenger
vehicles were the main contributors to the increases in these
provinces.  Seasonally adjusted monthly Consumer Price Index increases  On a seasonally adjusted monthly basis, the CPI increased
0.2% in April, matching the increase in March. Prices rose in
five of the eight major components.  The seasonally adjusted index for transportation rose 0.4%
in April, following a 0.3% increase the month before. The
clothing and footwear index increased 1.1% in April, after
decreasing 0.6% in March.  The indexes for shelter; household operations, furnishings
and equipment; and health and personal care were unchanged.  Bank of Canada’s core index  The Bank of  Canada ’s core index
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/62-001-x/2012004/technote -
notetech2-eng.htm) rose 2.1% in the 12 months to April, led by
price increases for the purchase of passenger vehicles. This
increase followed a 1.9% gain in the core index in March.  On a monthly basis, the seasonally adjusted core index
increased 0.4% in April, after rising 0.1% the previous month.  Note to readers  The special aggregate “Energy” includes: electricity;
natural gas;  fuel oil  and other fuels; gasoline; and fuel, parts
and supplies for recreational vehicles.  The Bank of Canada’s core index excludes eight of the
Consumer Price Index’s most volatile components (fruit, fruit
preparations and nuts; vegetables and vegetable preparations;
mortgage interest cost; natural gas; fuel oil and other fuels;
gasoline; inter-city transportation; and tobacco products and
smokers’ supplies) as well as the effects of changes in indirect
taxes on the remaining components.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  