-- Canada’s Currency Remains Higher After March Inflation
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-05-18T12:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/canada-s-currency-remains-higher-after-march-inflation.html
Canada ’s dollar gained for the first
day this week versus its U.S. counterpart as data showed
consumer prices rose more than forecast, bolstering the argument
for the central bank to raise  interest rates  this year.  The currency advanced earlier after touching a four-month
low amid concern Greece’s potential exit from the euro would
fracture the currency bloc. It tumbled yesterday as bets on a
rate increase dropped after unexpectedly weak economic data in
the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner.  “Better-than-expected inflation numbers are giving the
Canadian dollar a boost,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada in Toronto, in a
telephone interview. “Inflationary concerns are potentially
creating an environment for the  Bank of Canada  to take back some
of the excess monetary stimulus, however that environment is
being very much driven by events outside of Canada.”  The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.4 percent to C$1.0151
per  U.S. dollar  at 8:43 a.m. in Toronto. It touched C$1.0227
earlier, the weakest level since Jan. 16.  The  consumer price index  rose 2 percent in April from a
year ago compared with a 1.9 percent gain the prior month,
 Statistics Canada  said today from Ottawa. The core inflation
rate, which excludes eight volatile components, increased to 2.1
percent after a March gain of 1.9 percent. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg forecast that both the total and core rate would
remain unchanged at 1.9 percent.  Carney Statement  Bank Governor  Mark Carney  said last month interest-rate
increases may be necessary as growth and inflation outpace his
earlier projections, and as slack disappears from the economy.
Policy makers have kept the  benchmark rate  at 1 percent since
September 2010.  Odds of a rate boost in September sank to 39 percent
yesterday after the U.S. economic data, from about 55 percent
the day before, according to Bloomberg calculations on trading
in overnight index swaps.  The loonie dropped yesterday after a gauge of manufacturing
in the Philadelphia region and the Conference Board’s index of
leading indicators unexpectedly fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  