-- Canada Inflation Reaches 2% in April on Higher Car Costs
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-05-18T13:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/canada-inflation-reaches-2-in-april-on-higher-car-costs.html
Canadian  consumer price  inflation
accelerated last month on higher prices for automobiles and
clothing, supporting the view that  interest rates  will probably
rise sooner than in the U.S.  The  consumer price index  rose 2 percent in April from a
year ago compared with a 1.9 percent gain the prior month,
Statistics Canada said today from Ottawa. The  core  inflation
rate, which excludes eight volatile components, increased to 2.1
percent after a March gain of 1.9 percent. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg had forecast that both the total and core rate would 
be unchanged at 1.9 percent.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said April 18 that
it “may become appropriate” to raise his key 1 percent
interest rate for the first time since September 2010 with
growth and inflation stronger than earlier forecast. Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit predicts two rate increases
by year-end, while U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers last month
discussed further easing.  “It supports the view that the Bank of Canada is likely to
raise rates before the Fed,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of
currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto.  Canada’s dollar strengthened 0.2 percent to C$1.0173 per
 U.S. dollar  at 9:43 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
98.30 U.S. cents. The yield on the benchmark five-year
government bond rose to 1.43 percent from 1.39 percent.  Transportation Costs  Transportation costs rose 3.2 percent in April from a year
ago, with passenger vehicles up 3.4 percent. Gasoline prices
rose 3.3 percent from a year earlier, marking the slowest
advance since September 2010.  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) , the Canadian company that’s 70 percent-
owned by Exxon Mobil Corp., said April 26 that first-quarter
profit rose 30 percent, helped by rising oil prices and record
refining profit.  Clothing and footwear prices rose 2.4 percent as stores
stocked new spring and summer outfits,  Statistics Canada  said.
Food costs rose 2.5 percent, with restaurant meals gaining 2.8
percent.  The Bank of Canada last month said consumer prices would
advance at an average 2 percent pace this quarter and 2.2
percent in the second half of the year. The bank runs monetary
policy with a goal of keeping inflation at 2 percent and has
maintained its  policy interest rate  at 1 percent since September
2010, the longest pause since the 1950s.  Europe Turmoil  Renewed turmoil in Europe remains a potential obstacle to
any rate increase. The central bank last month said that
“external headwinds” were receding, and earlier this week the
 European Central Bank  said it will temporarily stop lending to
some Greek banks to limit risks from its debt crisis.  “Barring outright contagion from euro zone stresses to the
Canadian economy, we still believe the Bank will focus on
domestic fundamentals in considering a modest withdrawal of
stimulus by year-end,” said  David Tulk , chief  Canada  macro
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit.  Canada’s domestic strength was underlined by May 11 job 
figures showing the largest two-month employment gain in more 
than 30 years for March and April.  On a monthly basis, total and core inflation both rose 0.4
percent in April. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
total monthly prices would rise 0.3 percent and the core rate
would advance to 0.2 percent.  Seasonally adjusted prices rose 0.2 percent in April. The
adjusted monthly core rate accelerated to 0.4 percent in April
from 0.1 percent in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  