-- CFTC Proposes Easing of Dodd-Frank Speculation Limit Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-05-18T21:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/cftc-proposes-easing-of-dodd-frank-speculation-limit-rules.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  proposed easing part of Dodd-Frank Act regulations
limiting speculation in oil, natural gas, wheat and other
commodities after industry groups said the original rules were
onerous.  The CFTC’s five commissioners voted 5-0 in private to
propose changing how companies aggregate trading positions when
they have ownership stakes in other firms, the agency said in a
statement today. The agency proposed raising to 50 percent from
10 percent the threshold for when a company is considered to
have an ownership or equity stake in another firm and must add
trading positions.  The proposal, which is open to public comment, would affect
so-called position limits that were completed by the CFTC in
October as part of an effort to reduce excessive speculation in
commodities. The limits, which cap the number of contracts a
trader can have in a market, prompted a lawsuit by the
 International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc.  and the
 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association .  “I support the commission’s proposed rules that, among
other things, expand the exemptions relating to information
sharing restrictions, expand the circumstances under which
market participants will not be required to aggregate
positions,” Jill E. Sommers, a Republican commissioner, said in
a statement today.  Industry Sought Revisions  The agency proposed revising the rules following requests
from lobbying groups representing agriculture and energy firms
including  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and  “Absent actual relief from the aggregation requirements of
the position limit rules, commercial firms likely will have to
significantly reorganize their existing commercial operations,”
the Working Group of Commercial Energy Firms said in a Jan. 19
petition. “These actions may include the restructuring or
disposition of investments in joint ventures.”  A person with between a 10 percent and 50 percent ownership
or equity stake in another company would be able to leave the
positions separate if the trading strategies can be demonstrated
to be independent, according to the CFTC.  The limits would still require companies to add their
trading positions when they are under “common trading
control,”  Bart Chilton , a Democrat commissioner, said in an e-
mail today.  Common Trading Control  “What the rule does is provide commercial companies with
an investment that is less than 50 percent of the total shares
in another company the ability to disaggregate their positions
with those held by the company they’ve invested in, as long as
there is no common trading control,” Chilton said.  The CFTC’s original rule was approved on a 3-2 vote on Oct.
18 after more than a year of debate and 13,000 comment letters
from supporters such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and opponents
including  Barclays Capital .  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  