-- Preakness Chalk-Eating Weasels Unwelcome: David Papadopoulos
-- B y   D a v i d   P a p a d o p o u l o s
-- 2012-05-18T13:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/chalk-eating-weasels-unwelcome-for-preakness-david-papadopoulos.html
A mistake many gamblers make at the
racetrack is to bet on the favorite regardless of how small the
payout will be. These folks are known as “chalk eaters” or,
more appropriately, “chalk-eating weasels.”  The right approach at the track is no different than
choosing which stocks and bonds to invest in: buy what’s cheap
and stay away from what’s expensive. If horse No. 2 is 10-1
while your analysis tells you a fairer price would be 5-1, bet
him. If horse No. 3 is 2-1 and you’ve assessed his fair odds at
4-1, bet against him.  So while the first and second finishers in the Kentucky
Derby look like the top two contenders in tomorrow’s  Preakness
Stakes , I can’t be a chalk-eating weasel and bet on either.  At estimated odds of 8-5, Bodemeister, the Derby runner-up,
offers less than half the price I’d demand to wager on him. At
5-2, I’ll Have Another, the Derby winner, is closer to fair
value, yet still seems rich. He was 15-1 when he won the Derby
on May 5. Wagering on him at one-sixth those odds in the
Preakness is like buying  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  at $533 today after passing
the stock up a year ago at $336.  Here’s why both colts may be overvalued.  Bodemeister posted back-to-back brilliant performances over
a three-week span, the latter being a grueling effort in the
Derby in which he set a near-record early pace before
surrendering the lead in the homestretch of the 1 1/4-mile (2
kilometer) race. Now he runs again two weeks later, about half
the normal rest time for elite racehorses. The regression, or
bounce, concerns that arose before the Derby only intensify. I
can see him losing by 10 lengths as easily as I can see him
winning by five.  Derby Also-Rans  I’ll Have Another was professional and efficient in his
Derby victory. He was also the benefactor of a perfect trip,
skirting all traffic in the 20-horse field as he galloped in
mid-pack while watching the favorite Bodemeister tire himself
out on the lead. I’d just use the Derby winner defensively in
the 1 3/16-mile Preakness, playing him in exacta combinations
with longshots.  Picking which longshot is where it gets tricky.  I have little interest in any of the Derby also-rans
showing up in Baltimore.  -- Went the Day Well (6-1) will be overbet because of all
the talk about how early traffic problems compromised his
chances in the Derby. I’m underwhelmed by the evidence. He got
an ideal set-up in the race and wasn’t good enough to win.  New York’s Zetterholm  -- Creative Cause (6-1) was the horse I wanted in the
Preakness until his trainer made the unorthodox move of flying
him back to his home base in  California  after the Derby. The
colt has now endured three cross-country flights in three weeks.
Isn’t the shortest distance between Louisville and  Baltimore  a
straight line?  -- Daddy Nose Best (12-1) looked overmatched in the Derby.  -- Optimizer (30-1) is a horse I can’t take seriously. His
presence in the race just seems silly.  I’m equally indifferent to most of the rest. Cozzetti and
Tiger Walk are winless this year, losing their six races by a
combined 38 lengths. Pretension and Teeth of the Dog bore me.  And then there’s Zetterholm, a cheap New York-bred bay colt
with a big white blaze splashed across his face.  I know, I know -- “Zetterwho?” you’re asking yourself.
It’s true that Zetterholm (20-1) has beaten nothing but weak New
York-bred rivals in reeling off three straight victories since
February. And it’s true that he broke no stopwatches in posting
those wins. Yet the effortless nature in which he ran down the
leaders in those races suggests there’s upside to this colt.
I’ll bet him in a bid to tap into that upside.  It’s a high-risk, high-reward play. Go light on the trade.  And if Zetterholm finds himself staggering 15 lengths
behind as Bodemeister and I’ll Have Another duel again to the
finish line, root for the Derby winner to repeat.  There’s nothing like the excitement of a  Belmont Stakes 
with a Triple Crown on the line. And there’s nothing like the
speculative bubble created in wagering pools by Triple Crown
fever.  (David Papadopoulos, the team leader for Latin America
markets coverage at Bloomberg News, has been following
thoroughbred racing for more than two decades and was runner-up
in 2008 Eclipse Award voting for feature writing on the sport.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jay Beberman at   jbeberman@bloomberg.net  