-- Chesapeake Cuts Board Pay 20%, Halts Free Plane Flights
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-05-19T13:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/chesapeake-energy-reduces-board-compensation-by-about-20-.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  cut the pay
of its directors by 20 percent and halted their personal use of
corporate airplanes amid mounting criticism of the company’s
management.  The natural-gas producer has dropped 36 percent this year
as it copes with a cash shortfall and questions about whether
Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s personal financial
transactions conflict with his duties. Investors have accused
Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake’s board of lax oversight of
McClendon’s spending and potential conflicts of interest.  “Our concerns are not merely with the directors’ excessive
pay and perks, but with the directors themselves and their
repeated, costly failures to exercise independent oversight,”
said Michael Garland, executive director of  corporate governance 
for  New York City ’s comptroller’s office, which oversees 1.9
million Chesapeake shares held by the city’s pension funds.  The eight outside members of Chesapeake’s board will reduce
their annual compensation package to $350,000, made up of
$100,000 in cash and the rest in stock, Chesapeake said in a
statement yesterday. The level is “at or below the average
director compensation of the company’s peers,” the board said
in the statement.  “We believe these latest changes to the directors’
compensation will address concerns raised by shareholders and
better align Chesapeake with its peers,” Merrill A. (“Pete”)
Miller, Jr., Chesapeake’s lead independent director and CEO of
 National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , said in the statement.  Free Plane Travel  Chesapeake’s non-executive directors made an average of
$533,163 in 2011, nearly twice the compensation for  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ’s board members, according to Bloomberg calculations.
Exxon is the world’s biggest energy company with a market value
about 40 times larger than Chesapeake.  Chesapeake last year spent $1.09 million on perks for
directors, including allowing board members to use company
planes for personal travel. Each non-executive board member
could fly up to 40 hours on the jets per year, according to a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Some will view this as too little, too late,” said
 Charles Elson , director of the Weinberg Center for Corporate
Governance at the  University of Delaware  in  Newark . “Are they
going to give the money back? Are they going to give the free
rides back? It’s been going on for years.”  ‘Costly Failures’  Chesapeake was one of only a handful of companies that
allowed its board members to use company aircraft, Elson said in
a phone interview yesterday. The practice reinforced the idea
that the board wasn’t independent enough to stand up to
Chesapeake’s management, he said.  In a  May 17 letter , New York City comptroller  John Liu 
called on shareholders to vote against two directors who are up
for re-election at the company’s June 8 annual meeting, both of
whom serve on the  audit committee .  The company’s financial troubles “demonstrate the audit
committee’s costly failure to act in the best interests of
shareowners,” Liu wrote in the letter.  Chesapeake, the second-largest U.S. gas producer, said on
May 1 that it may run out of cash to fund its drilling
operations next year. The shortfall, estimated at $10 billion
this year by  Fitch Ratings , is pulling Chesapeake deeper into
debt and forcing a selloff of as much as $20 billion in assets
through next year.  $4 Billion Loan  Chesapeake got a $4 billion short-term loan from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  within the past week
that McClendon called a “bridge” as the company waits for
asset sales to raise funds.  Chesapeake plans to repay the new loan by the end of the
year with proceeds from the sale of oilfields in  Texas ’ Permian
Basin and a joint-venture to develop the Mississippi Lime
formation that straddles the Oklahoma-Kansas border. The company
postponed a sale of future production from Texas oilfields and
the spinoff of its drilling subsidiary.  Southeastern Asset Management Inc., Chesapeake’s biggest
shareholder, said in a May 7 letter the company should consider
selling itself and urged McClendon to spend less time meeting
with analysts. McClendon’s management team should “put their
heads down” and avoid “unproductive communications” including
conferences and media interviews, Southeastern CEO O. Mason Hawkins wrote. Southeastern owns 14 percent of Chesapeake stock.  Holding Directors Accountable  The California Public Employees Retirement System, the
biggest U.S. municipal pension, has called for other board
reforms, including annual election of directors.  “Shareowners do not have the ability to hold directors
accountable” since only a few of them are elected each year,
the pension fund said in a May 14 letter to shareholders. The
fund owns 1.8 million Chesapeake shares.  Chesapeake’s  shares  have dropped as gas prices reached 10-
year lows in  New York  and after the company said it was
reviewing McClendon’s personal financial transactions.
McClendon, who is being stripped of his chairman’s role, used
his personal stakes in company wells as collateral for personal
loans from companies that were also doing business with
Chesapeake.  Replacing the Chairman  The board, which is still seeking a replacement chairman,
cut directors’ pay after consulting with an independent adviser
as part of a broader review of compensation plans, according to
the company’s statement yesterday.  Chesapeake cut McClendon’s pay 15 percent last year to
$17.86 million in response to shareholders’ concerns that he was
paid too much. The reduced pay package included $13.6 million in
stock awards, a $1.95 million bonus and $975,000 in salary, the
Oklahoma City-based company said in an April 20 filing.  The cut to board pay was announced after the close of
regular trading on U.S. markets. Chesapeake fell 0.1 percent to
$14.36 at 6:14 p.m. yesterday in New York after earlier gaining
6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  