-- Chilean Economy Grew at Fastest Pace in Three Quarters
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-05-18T15:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/chilean-economy-grew-at-fastest-pace-in-three-quarters.html
Chile ’s economy grew at the fastest
pace in three quarters in the first three months of the year as
exports from the world’s top copper producer picked up.  Gross domestic product expanded 5.6 percent from the year
earlier, the central bank said in a report posted on its website
today, in line with analyst forecasts and compared with 4.5
percent in the previous three months. Exports gained 6.2
percent, while internal demand grew 4.9 percent. From the
previous three months, GDP grew 1.4 percent.  Chile is the third Latin American country to report a
pickup in first-quarter growth in the past two days after Mexico
and Venezuela. Whereas  government spending  fueled growth in
 Venezuela , exports drove the expansion in Chile and offset
slower increases in investments and internal demand. Investment
growth eased to 8.3 percent in the first quarter from 16.3
percent in the previous three months.  “This was a surprise to me; I wasn’t expecting consumption
and investment to moderate that fast,” Alfredo Coutino, Latin
America director at Moody’s Analytics, said by telephone. “This
is going to alleviate pressure on policy makers to increase the
rate.”  The central bank yesterday kept its benchmark rate at 5
percent for the fourth straight month. Policy makers will
increase borrowing costs to 5.25 percent by November, according
to the median estimate of 58 traders and investors polled by the
bank on May 8.  European Crisis  Since the central bank survey, traders have increased bets
that  interest rates  and inflation will ease as concern mounts
that the European sovereign-debt crisis will reduce demand for
commodities like copper, which accounts for more than half of
Chile’s exports.  One-year interest rate swaps, which reflect traders’ views
of average borrowing costs, declined five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 4.79 percent today, bringing the drop since
May 8 to 35 basis points. One-year breakeven inflation, which is
derived from the difference between nominal and inflation-linked
yields on swaps, fell 30 basis points over the same period to
2.78 percent.  “The moderation of demand to around trend and well
anchored inflation expectations reduces significantly the risk
of rate hikes in the near term despite a tight labor market,”
 Alberto Ramos , senior Latin American economist at Goldman Sachs
& Co., said in a note e-mailed to investors today.  Economic Strength  First-quarter growth exceeded estimates made by policy
makers in April and compares with 4.5 percent in the fourth
quarter and 3.7 percent in the third.  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates Chile will grow
4.3 percent in 2012, exceeding the regional average of 3.7
percent while trailing Peru, Venezuela and  Colombia .  The construction and retail industries expanded 9.5 percent
and 8.3 percent respectively in the first quarter, while oil
refining contracted 12 percent, the central bank said. Internal
demand grew at the slowest pace since 2009, when Chile suffered
its worst recession in more than a decade, and investment
climbed at the slowest rate in two years.  As the euro region’s debt crisis intensifies, economic
growth may moderate in Chile as it did in the third quarter of
last year,  Alejandro Puente , an economist at  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in Santiago, said.  “Once again we’re experiencing an increase in
uncertainty,” he said by telephone yesterday. “It begs the
question whether the phenomena will somehow occur again where
global uncertainty causes an economic deceleration.”  Stocks Slide  Chile’s benchmark stock index, the  IPSA (IPSA) , slid yesterday to
its lowest level since Jan. 31 as concern increased that  Greece 
will exit the euro. The IPSA gained 0.2 percent to 4,286.88 at
10:23 a.m. Santiago time today.  The government has prepared a contingency plan that would
entail tapping its $14.9 billion sovereign wealth fund to
protect liquidity and employment if the global environment
suddenly deteriorates. Government consumption grew 0.5 percent
in the first quarter, its slowest pace in at least three years.  “Although we have been facing complex situations abroad,
the Chilean economy has continued developing,” Finance Minister
Felipe Larrain told reporters in Santiago yesterday. “But I
want to be frank: We are not immune and we aren’t bulletproof.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 