-- Chile Keeps Rate on Hold as Economy Resists Europe Contagion
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-05-18T15:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/chile-keeps-rate-on-hold-as-economy-resists-european-contagion.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its key
 interest rate  unchanged for a fourth consecutive month as
surging domestic demand and a deterioration in the global
economy leave little scope to change monetary policy.  The policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
held the overnight rate at 5 percent yesterday, as forecast by
all 17 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg .  Growth in the world’s leading copper producer has exceeded
central bank estimates this year even as the European sovereign-
debt crisis deepens. Policy makers probably will keep the key
rate unchanged until threats of contagion from Europe subside,
Sebastian Senzacqua, an economist at Bice Inversiones in
Santiago, said after yesterday’s decision.  “The central bank for now probably will be paying
attention to events in the euro area before it takes a more
decisive decision,” Senzacqua said by telephone. “Obviously
the central bank’s long-term position will be that the monetary
policy rate could undergo some increases.”  Policy makers will increase  borrowing costs  within five
months after keeping them unchanged at least through June,
according to the median estimate of 59 economists surveyed by
the central bank on May 9. They had forecast a rate cut this
year as recently as February on expectations growth would slow.  Inflation Outlook  The central bank raised inflation and economic growth
forecasts for 2012 in its latest monetary policy report, saying
inflation will stay about the upper limit of the 2 percent to 4
percent target range for the first half of the year.  Inflation surpassed that limit in the three months through
February before falling to 3.8 percent in March and 3.5 percent
in April. The decline may be temporary as consumer price
pressures persist, Vergara told an economic forum in Santiago on
May 3.  “Short-term inflation risks have increased,” he said.
“However, risks from the external scenario remain important and
their fruition can cause significant effects in the Chilean
economy.”  Some traders in Chile this week started betting on an
interest rate cut as the price of copper fell following news
that talks to form a government in  Greece  collapsed. The metal,
which accounts for more than half of the Andean nation’s
exports, is down 8.8 percent in May and is heading for the
biggest monthly drop since September.  Asian Economy  “Chile is almost like an Asian economy in  Latin America 
and is one of the economies that becomes more reactive to what
happens abroad,” Pablo Goldberg, head of emerging-market
research at HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York , said in an interview
with Bloomberg Radio’s  Bloomberg Surveillance . “Inflation is
very linked to commodity prices and commodity prices have been
coming down. And also they’re very open to global trade.”  Chile’s one-year interest rate swap, which reflects
traders’ views of average borrowing costs, closed below 5
percent on May 15 for the first time since early March and fell
another 15 basis points to 4.84 percent two days later. Rates
were down to 4.79 percent at 10:37 a.m. Santiago time today.  “We expect the central bank to remain on hold for the
foreseeable future,”  Alberto Ramos , a senior Latin American
economist at Goldman Sachs & Co., said in an e-mailed note to
clients yesterday. “However, if the global macro backdrop
continues to deteriorate and copper prices decline further, the
monetary policy council may soon adopt an easing bias.”  Gross domestic product expanded 5.6 percent in the first
quarter from last year, the fastest growth since the three
months through June last year, the central bank said in a report
posted on its website today.  “Domestically, economic activity grew faster in the first
quarter than had been projected in the last Monetary Policy
Report, although without deviating substantially from its trend
growth rate,” the central bank said in a statement accompanying
yesterday’s decision. “The labor market remains tight.”  Retail sales expanded 9.5 percent in the first quarter,
according to calculations made by Bloomberg based on government
data, and unemployment fell to 6.6 percent in the three months
through March from 7.3 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 