-- China Home Prices Fall in More Than Half Cities Tracked
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-18T07:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/china-home-prices-fall-in-more-than-half-cities-tracked.html
China ’s home prices fell in a record
46 of 70 cities tracked by the government in April from a year
earlier as officials pledged to keep restrictions on property
purchases that have sapped buyer demand.  The eastern city of Wenzhou led declines with a 12.3
percent slump in values from a year earlier, while Beijing
dropped 1 percent and Shanghai prices declined 1.3 percent,
according to data released by the statistics bureau today.  The Housing Ministry said yesterday China will steadfastly
continue curbs on the housing market and won’t flip-flop on its
policies, Shanghai Securities Journal reported. This followed a
pledge by the State Council, or Cabinet, last month to stick
with existing property controls implemented over the past two
years, where the government tightened down payments and
mortgages, and imposed restrictions on the number of homes
families can buy.  “The general price trend as a result of developers cutting
prices and regulatory environment is continuing this month,”
Chris Brooke, chief executive officer for  Greater China  at  CBRE
Group Inc. (CBG) , said in a Bloomberg Television interview from
Beijing. “The objective is to remove the speculative element
from the market.”  The drop in April home prices compares with 37 cities that
registered a decrease in March, according to today’s data. The
bureau switched from a national average to individual figures
for the 70 cities at the start of last year.  Wenzhou’s Drop  Wenzhou posted the biggest decline for the sixth month,
according to the data. A credit squeeze on smaller businesses in
the city prompted a visit and pledge of financial aid from
Premier  Wen Jiabao  in October.  Private data also showed the home market continued to cool.
April home prices fell to a 14-month low,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
the nation’s biggest real estate website owner, said on May 2.
Residential values decrease 0.3 percent last month from March,
the eighth month-on-month drop, said SouFun, which began
compiling the figures in July 2010.  A gauge tracking property shares in Shanghai fell 1.7
percent at the close of trading, compared with a 1.4 percent
loss for the  Shanghai Composite Index. (SHCOMP)   Easing Funding  While the government maintained its housing curbs, it
helped eased funding by lenders. The central bank lowered the
amount of cash that banks must set aside as reserves three times
since November to boost liquidity and spur loan growth.  Lenders in Beijing started offering mortgages to first-home
buyers at or below the central bank’s benchmark rate in February,
according to Bacic & 5i5j Group, Beijing’s second-biggest real
estate brokerage.  “The government’s policy focus of helping first-home
buyers is not going to revive the  property market  but only
mitigate some of the pain,” said Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based
chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  The eastern city of Yangzhou in Jiangsu province will offer
new buyers subsidies of as much as 0.6 percent of the total
value of a home, Xinhua Daily reported on May 8, citing the
local finance bureau. Attempts by Wuhu in Anhui province and
Foshan in the south in the past six months to lift local
property curbs were halted within a week.  Not Enough  Prices haven’t fallen low enough for the government to
relax the property policies, said Nomura’s Zhang.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  suspended a 15
percent discount on mortgage lending for first-time home buyers
nationwide, the official Xinhua News Agency reported on May 5.
The suspension was made to address tight liquidity and deposit
instability and other Chinese banks may follow suit, Sophie Jiang, a Hong Kong-based banking analyst at Religare Capital
Markets, said in a May 7 report.  “The government won’t back off from the property
restrictions,” Patrick Chovanec, an associate professor at
Tsinghua University’s School of Economics and Management in
Beijing, said before today’s release. “If they lift the
restrictions and the market keeps falling, which it will,
they’ve lost the fig leaf that enables them to say they’ve got
everything under control.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Bonnie Cao in
 Shanghai  at   bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  