-- China Home Prices, Car Inventory Add to Signs of Slowing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-18T05:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/china-home-prices-car-inventory-add-to-signs-of-slowing.html
China ’s home prices fell in a record
number of cities last month and car dealers posted inventory
levels that foreshadowed deeper price cuts, adding to signs of
slowing growth in the world’s second-largest economy.  Prices of new homes fell from a year earlier in 46 of the
70 cities tracked by the National Bureau of Statistics, the
agency said today. Dealerships for Honda Motor Co., Chery
Automobile Co.,  BYD Co. (1211)  and Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. had
more than 45 days of inventory at the end of last month,
according to an official from the government-backed China
Automobile Dealers Association.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. today joined banks including
Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG in lowering its estimate for China’s
second-quarter growth after weaker-than-forecast economic data
released last week. The nation’s expansion may drop to a 13-year
low this year, a Bloomberg News survey this week showed, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis crimps exports and a campaign to rein in
property speculation curbs domestic demand.  “There is no doubt that the level of activity growth in
April is significantly below the government’s comfort zone,”
Goldman economists Song Yu and  Michael Buchanan  wrote in a
report distributed today. “It is clear that there is a
consensus within the government that policy should be loosened
further.”  China cut banks’ reserve  requirements  by 50 basis points
for the third time in six months on May 12 to spur lending.
Analysts forecast a further 100 basis-point reduction over the
rest of the year, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Yuan Drop  China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.2 percent
as of 1:17 p.m. local time. The one-year swap rate, the fixed
cost to receive the seven-day repurchase rate, fell 37 basis
points this week, poised for the biggest drop since November.
The  yuan  was headed for its largest one-week drop since January.  Goldman Sachs lowered its estimate for second-quarter
growth to 7.9 percent from 8.5 percent and cut its full-year
forecast to 8.1 percent from 8.6 percent.  Authorities should consider cutting benchmark lending rates
to alleviate funding costs and anchor inflation expectations,
economists led by  Fan Jianping  wrote in the China Securities
Journal today. The researchers, from the government’s State
Information Center, estimate economic growth may drop to 7.5
percent this quarter.  The eastern city of Wenzhou led declines in new-home prices
last month with a 12.3 percent drop from a year earlier,
according to statistics bureau data. Prices in Beijing fell 1
percent and in  Shanghai  slid 1.3 percent.  Maintaining Curbs  A housing ministry official said the country will
steadfastly continue curbs on the residential real-estate market
and won’t flip-flop on its policies, the Shanghai Securities
News reported yesterday. The comments followed a pledge by
China’s State Council, or Cabinet, last month to stick with
existing property controls implemented over the past two years
that have included higher down-payment requirements and
restrictions on the number of homes families can buy.  “The general price trend as a result of developers cutting
prices and regulatory environment is continuing this month,”
Chris Brooke, chief executive officer for China at CBRE Group
Inc., a commercial real-estate services company, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview from Beijing. “The objective is
to remove the speculative element from the market.”  Car dealers have cut prices this year to spur sales after
the government repealed tax incentives introduced in 2009 to
counter the effects of the global financial crisis. A monthly
survey of 36 major Chinese cities by the National Development
and Reform Commission showed average car prices fell 1.9 percent
in April from a year earlier, a fourth straight decline this
year.  ‘Fiercer’ Competition  “Competition will get fiercer,” said Huang Wenlong, a
Hong Kong-based analyst with BOC International Holdings Ltd.
“China’s auto demand will definitely slow down with the decline
of the economic growth rate.”  Price cuts may deepen as inventories of unsold cars
increase to levels that industry officials including Su Hui say
are unsustainable.  “Unsold cars are crowding dealer lots in cities from
 Guangzhou  in the south to Xi’an to the west,” Su, vice
president of the auto market division at the automobile dealers
association, said in a phone interview yesterday from Beijing.
“It’s like a contagious disease that will spread.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  