-- Circuit Breakers May Halt Facebook After $16 Billion IPO Opens
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-05-18T14:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/circuit-breakers-may-halt-facebook-after-16-billion-ipo-opens.html
Investors trading  Facebook Inc. (FB)  after
its $16 billion initial public offering opens may have to
navigate circuit breakers adopted after the crash of May 2010.  Stocks that rise or fall 10 percent or more within five
minutes are paused across all 13 U.S. equity exchanges and other
markets to curb volatility. Trading in  Caesars Entertainment
Corp. (CZR) , a casino company, was halted on the first day of trading
on Feb. 8 after the stock rose 50 percent minutes after the IPO.  Mark Turner , head of U.S. sales trading at New York-based
Instinet Inc., which accounts for almost 5 percent of daily U.S.
equities volume, said he’d be surprised if circuit breakers
don’t halt trading in Facebook shares more than once. The pauses
last for five minutes.  “Given the interest in the stock, I think it’s likely to
be very volatile,” Turner said in a phone interview. “There
are likely to be a lot of players, a lot of retail flow,
institutional flow, and price discovery right around when it
opens will be quite frantic.”  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $2.9 billion at
Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,  Illinois , said that while he
doesn’t think Facebook will trigger a circuit breaker, he’s glad
the curbs are in place. He said he doesn’t plan to purchase
Facebook shares.  “For something like an IPO that doesn’t have a long
trading history and is probably subject more to animal spirits
than the trading of a seasoned issue, circuit breakers are
probably a good thing,” he said in a phone interview. “It
would probably frustrate me, but on the other hand it’s probably
better than having an order coming in several dollars higher
than I would’ve expected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  