-- Clemens Needle Mixed With Others in Can, McNamee Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/mcnamee-says-medical-waste-in-beer-can-not-just-clemens-s.html
Brian McNamee , the government’s only
eyewitness to  Roger Clemens ’s alleged steroid use, testified
that some of the medical waste he preserved from an injection he
gave the ex-pitcher was mixed with needles used on other
baseball players.  McNamee made the admission yesterday under cross-
examination at Clemens’s perjury trial in Washington. McNamee,
who was once the former New York Yankee’s personal trainer, said
he had kept the material in a beer can before turning it over to
the government. Defense attorney  Rusty Hardin  displayed a
picture of the medical waste and asked the witness where each
item came from.  “Did you put anything in the beer can not used on Mr.
Clemens?” Hardin asked.  “Yes,” McNamee said. “Definitely growth hormone and the
diabetic needle.”  “Why is that in the beer can?” Hardin asked.  “It might have been left in my room and it was just thrown
in there,” McNamee said.  McNamee was also asked about what he told prosecutors who
wanted to know how his own blood wound up on gauze McNamee
claimed was used to clean up a shot given to Clemens.  “Did you state that it was possible you used the same
gauze you used on Clemens’s rear end to wipe blood off of your
hand after cutting yourself on a bottle?” Hardin asked.  “Yes, that’s something I could have said,” McNamee
answered.  False Statements  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel
investigating the use of steroids in  Major League Baseball . He
faces as long as 21 months in prison if convicted.  McNamee, on the witness stand since May 14, has testified
that he gave Clemens injections of steroids and human growth
hormone, or HGH, during the 1998, 2000 and 2001 baseball seasons
while both men worked for the  Toronto Blue Jays  and the Yankees.  Former Senator  George Mitchell , acting as a special
investigator for Major League Baseball, released a report on
steroid use among professional ballplayers on Dec. 13, 2007.
Mitchell concluded Clemens used drugs on at least 16 occasions
from 1998 to 2001. Clemens has denied having used drugs.  The government’s case includes a needle and cotton with
Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for anabolic steroids,
prosecutors said.  Preserved Needles  That material came from McNamee, who said he saved needles,
gauze and vials from one of the injections in 2001. He told
jurors he kept some of the items in a  Miller Lite  beer can that
he took from the recycling bin in Clemens’s apartment.  McNamee said he put the materials in a briefcase-type bag
and brought it home and showed it to his wife. After that, he
put the can in a FedEx box marked “Clem” and placed it in a
locked closet, he said.  Two years later, McNamee said he added a bag of steroids
and a bottle of unidentified pills that he said Clemens gave him
at the end of the 2003 baseball season. Those materials were
later transferred to a different FedEx box.  McNamee said he saved the material because his wife told
him repeatedly that he would be the one to take the fall if
something went wrong.  McNamee said yesterday that the material from other players
probably came from the bag he had brought home from Clemens’s
house. He said it was medical waste from other players who had
“shot up” in his hotel room while on the road. At least one
needle and two vials that another ballplayer used for an HGH
shot went into the Miller Lite can, he said.  Competitive Concerns  Clemens, 49, who pitched for the Yankees, Blue Jays,  Boston
Red Sox  and  Houston Astros  during a 24-year career, used the
anabolic steroids and HGH to remain competitive as he aged,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham said in his opening
statement last month.  Hardin’s attack on McNamee’s credibility yesterday included
accusations of alcohol abuse and engaging in a fraudulent scheme
to obtain diet pills. Hardin also got McNamee to admit to the
jury that he manipulated a dead-on-arrival scene while he was a
 New York  City police officer.  Hardin finished his cross-examination of McNamee this
afternoon, leaving prosecutors about 20 minutes to begin their
re-direct before the trial broke for the weekend.  Time Limits  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  admonished both sides for
taking too long in their examination of witnesses and said after
McNamee each side would be limited to about an hour and a half
per witness. Walton said yesterday he expected the trial to go
into the second week of June.  Based on Hardin’s questioning, prosecutors were able to ask
their witness about  Jose Canseco , a former baseball player who
admitted to using steroids.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Butler asked McNamee to
explain how in June 1998 McNamee came to believe that when
Clemens asked him for “a booty shot” he meant an injection of
steroids.  “It was conversation, innuendo and who he was keeping
company with,” McNamee said.  He said he overheard a conversation about steroids between
Clemens and Canseco, who both played for the  Blue Jays  at the
time. A few days later, McNamee said, Canseco, during a road
trip to  Florida , gave him steroids and four syringes to take
back to Toronto for Clemens.  Other Ballplayers  Prosecutors have asked Walton for permission to ask McNamee
about other ballplayers he has given drugs to, namely Clemens’s
former Yankee teammates  Andy Pettitte ,  Mike Stanton  and  Chuck Knoblauch .  The government argues that Hardin’s questioning of
McNamee’s motives “opened the door” to evidence showing how
McNamee’s cooperation led to other ballplayers admitting drug
use. Walton said he would consider the request.  Also yesterday, U.S. Representative  Darrell Issa ,
California Republican, asked Walton to block two subpoenas from
Clemens received this month seeking his testimony and documents
from the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
Issa is the now chairman of the committee, whose leaders in 2008
referred Clemens to prosecutors for perjury.  Clemens wants Issa to testify about comments he made in
2008 regarding the committee’s hearing.  The second subpoena seeks documents related to the
“motivation” behind the committee probe, whether the
investigation was consistent with the rules of the House and
legislation that was considered in connection with the
investigation, according to the filing.  Walton threw out a similar subpoena for information last
year, concluding that the request violated the Constitution’s
Speech or Debate Clause.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  