-- Cocky Apollo, Sad Cleo Star in Antico Show: Lance Esplund
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/cocky-apollo-sad-cleo-star-in-antico-show-lance-esplund.html
With his hip cocked, this polished
bronze, gold and silver “Apollo Belvedere” is cool, classical,
self-confident -- even sexy in a gunslinger kind of way.  The young god has just released an arrow and struck the
target, so his lean body is in action yet gracefully at ease.  This is Mantuan goldsmith-sculptor Pier Jacopo Alari de
Bonacolsi’s (c. 1455-1528) take on the classical, life-size
marble statue.  He was known and self-proclaimed as Antico, “the antique
one,” and he excelled at the creative copy. A process not
simply of imitation but of exploration, investigation and
transcription, copying allows artists to unearth a work’s formal
power, rhythms, structure and metaphors -- the secrets of its
life and genius.  Antico was the first of many artists over the centuries to
translate the “Apollo Belvedere” with fresh eyes. His bronze
Apollo is sensual, conscious of his own appeal and evolution --
an ancient god reborn in the image and service of modern man.  But the drama here has been turned down a notch and
naturalism reigns. Antico has restored the original’s missing
forearms. He has smoothed and polished the transitions and
delicately relaxed and narrowed Apollo’s stance.  The Frick Collection’s “Antico: The Golden Age of
Renaissance Bronzes” presents 39 of his exquisite works,
roughly three quarters of his entire oeuvre -- portrait medals,
busts, an urn, reliefs and statuettes, mostly of gods and
goddesses from classical mythology.  Antico was the court sculptor for the powerful Gonzaga
family, the Mantuan art patrons considered to be the most
splendid of the smaller Italian Renaissance courts -- Andrea
Mantegna was their court painter.  The Gonzagas displayed Antico’s prized, rare, bronze
statuettes (ranging from roughly eight to 18 inches tall) next
to their inspirational sculptures and antiquities, one of
Renaissance Italy’s finest collections of Greco-Roman art.  Antico’s sculptures, bestowed diplomatically as treasured
gifts, were precious objects rarely allowed to go into serial
production.  If there is anything slightly off-putting about Antico, it
is his virtuosity and the fact that he is clearly as aware of
his talent as you are. “Apollo” -- no less than the artist --
appears to preen for the crowd.  In this and other inspired copies, Antico helped to
establish a canonical link between the Renaissance humanist
“ideal” and that of antiquity.  But he was first and foremost an innovative sculptor who
was reinventing and reinvigorating the art of the past with
newfound confidence and naturalism.  Winged Cupids  Antico softens the pomp-and-circumstance seriousness of the
antique, so that we feel at home with his subjects -- Venuses
and winged Cupids look like beings you could engage in casual
conversation.  In the stout statuette “Hercules” (1496), the aged
demigod, with club and lion-skin cloak, appears restless merely
standing still. He has the beginnings of a middle-aged paunch.
Gnarled by experience, he is strong, capable and trustworthy --
easily worth six men half his age.  Noble Queen  Antico did not base everything on antique sources. In his
completely original, life-size bust “Cleopatra” (c. 1525), the
noble, conquered queen is pensive, contemplating her death. Her
crowned head sinks and her cloak cascades like a waterfall. Yet
her lively hair, roiling, falling in ringlets, suggests not the
sorrow of defeat but the beauty and dignity of her martyrdom.  This exhibition, with its fanciful, baroque flourishes,
relaxed air and a streamlined drama foretelling  Art Deco , will
appeal to contemporary tastes familiar with the modern,
economical sculptures of Aristide Maillol and Elie Nadelman.  It may also renew a hunger for antiquity, encouraging you to
revisit the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art’s superb Greco-Roman
wing, just up the street.  Far from merely antique, Antico revives the art of our
present as much as that of our past.  “Antico: The Golden Age of Renaissance Bronzes” runs at
the Frick Collection, 1 E. 70th St. through July 29.
Information: +1-212-288-0700;  http://www.frick.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include NYC  Weekend Best  and  Lewis Lapham 
podcast.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund in  New York  at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 