-- Colombia Boosts Reserve Requirements to Cool Credit Surge
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-05-18T16:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/colombia-boosts-reserve-requirements-to-cool-credit-surge-1-.html
Colombia  put in place additional
reserve requirements on  consumer credit  as it seeks to prevent
surging lending from fuelling inflation.  The measures, which apply to lenders with an increase in
bad loans, will help avoid “future problems,” Finance Minister
Juan Carlos Echeverry said according to a joint statement by the
ministry and the nation’s financial regulator.  Central bank policy makers voiced concern about consumer
credit at their April 30 meeting while voting to keep their key
rate on hold as the economy slows. Consumer lending grew 22
percent in March from a year earlier and could stir inflation
pressures, the board said. The decision to extend reserve
requirements supports the view that the bank will keep its key
rate on hold in the near term, said Fernando Palma, a Lima-based
strategist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA  “This should be interpreted as a macro-prudential
measure” that will help contain “credit loan expansion without
withdrawal of monetary stimulus,” Palma said in an e-mailed
note to clients. The measure applies to new loans, according to
today’s statement for the ministry and regulator.  Banco de la Republica has kept borrowing costs on hold
since its March meeting as inflation slows after nine rate
increases in 13 months.  The use of so-called “macroprudential” measures, have a
faster impact than the 18-24 month delay associated with higher
borrowing costs, central bank co-director Carlos Gustavo Cano
said in a Feb. 9 interview.  Total credit grew at an annual pace of 19.7 percent in
March after expanding 20.4 percent in February, according to the
central bank.  Minutes published of the bank’s Jan. 30 meeting showed that
an unidentified board member had said additional measures are
needed to cool lending.  Consumer prices rose 0.14 percent in April, the national
statistics agency said May 5, less than the 0.17 percent median
estimate of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual
inflation, which unexpectedly slowed to a seven-month low of
3.40 percent in March, was 3.43 percent in April.  Peru ’s central bank increased monthly  reserve requirements 
in soles and dollars for the first time in a year May 1 to stem
credit growth and tame a rally in the sol to a 15-year high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 