-- Commercial-Mortgage Securities Spreads Soar to Widest of 2012
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-05-18T17:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/commercial-mortgage-securities-spreads-soar-to-widest-of-2012.html
Wall Street dealers are selling
commercial-mortgage bonds with the widest spread this year as
the  European debt crisis  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s trading loss
rattles markets.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Jefferies
Group Inc. (JEF)  plan to sell top-ranked debt that matures in 9.19
years to yield 140 basis points more than the benchmark swap
rate, according to a person familiar with the transaction who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t public. That
compares with 120 basis points on similar securities issued by
UBS AG and Barclays Plc last month, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The three New York-based banks initially marketed
the securities to yield 115 basis points more than swaps.  Investors are demanding higher yields on bonds tied to
shopping malls, skyscrapers and hotels as  Europe ’s worsening
fiscal turmoil and possible regulatory fallout from JPMorgan’s
trading loss, potentially constraining lending. Volatile
spreads, which erode banks’ profit margins on new deals, may
inhibit originations, Wells Fargo & Co. analysts said in a
report yesterday.  “The upside case for CMBS issuance in 2012 likely was
taken out in the past week,” said analysts led by Marielle Jan de Beur, who is based in New York. “Increased caution about
pricing a deal in a shaky market, an intensified skepticism
toward synthetic hedging instruments and a reinvigorated push
for market regulation,” may hinder issuance, the analysts said.  Wells Fargo forecasts $25 billion of commercial-mortgage
bond issuance this year, with $9.6 billion issued to date.
Deutsche Bank AG and Cantor Fitzgerald LP plan to sell about
$933 million of the debt today with a top-rated class maturing
in about 9.73 years expected to pay a 135 basis-point spread, a
person familiar with that sale said.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  and UBS auctioned $9
billion of commercial-mortgage bonds created during the boom
years in the past month, creating an additional drag on values,
Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  