-- Copper Open Interest Falls to Two-Year Low on Greece Worries
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-05-18T12:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/copper-open-interest-falls-to-two-year-low-on-greece-worries-1-.html
Copper open interest declined to the
lowest level in almost two years on the  London  Metal Exchange,
suggesting traders are closing out bets.  Investors probably closed out bets on higher prices as
market open interest in LME futures declined by 11,531 contracts
to 414,375 lots in the week ended May 15, according to bourse
figures. That’s the lowest level since June 23, 2010. The
exchange’s benchmark contract for three-month delivery dropped
4.1 percent in the period.  “These are pretty unprecedented times,” said  Robin Bhar ,
an analyst at Societe Generale SA in London. “It’s not wholly
surprising to see liquidation and pressure on prices.”  Concern that the  U.S. economy  is struggling to sustain its
momentum and that  Greece  may exit the euro drove copper to a
four-month low.  Mario Draghi , president of the  European Central
Bank , said for the first time this week that Greece may stop
using the single currency.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered credit ratings at 16
Spanish banks and  Fitch Ratings  cut Greece’s credit rating on
concern the country may not be able to sustain euro membership.  A combination of lower open interest and sliding prices
suggests liquidation of bets on a rising market, according to
Macquarie Group Ltd. Open interest, which includes positions
held by LME clearing members  only , declined to the lowest since
July 2009 as of May 15. Each contract represents 25 metric tons
of the metal used in wiring, pipes and roofing.  Open interest in aluminum, zinc, lead, nickel and tin also
fell as prices declined.  Following are changes to market open interest for both LME
members and their clients for the six biggest industrial metals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  