-- Corporate Bond Sales in U.S. Fall Most Since February on Greece
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-05-18T14:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/corporate-bond-sales-in-u-s-fall-most-since-february-on-greece.html
Corporate bond sales declined at the
fastest pace in three months and relative yields climbed as
concern that Greece would exit the euro and accelerate the
European financial crisis lowered risk appetite in the U.S.  Kellogg Co. (K) , the  Battle Creek , Michigan-based cereal maker,
raised $1.45 billion in a three-part issue at its lowest coupons
on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Canada’s
 Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN)  sold $1.5 billion of bonds in its first U.S.
offering. Sales totaled $13.4 billion this week, a 55 percent drop
from the five days ended May 11 and the biggest decline since
Feb. 17.  Borrowing is falling even with Treasury yields approaching
record lows, as unease over Greece mounts after elections failed
to produce a new government.  Europe ’s crisis is exposing the
“diminishing functionality” of the global financial system,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s Edward Marrinan.  “The markets have become used to alternating rounds of
risk-on, risk-off behavior,” Marrinan, macro credit strategist
at RBS in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.
“The erratic conditions are a broader sign of the intractable
problems facing Europe.”  Yields on U.S. company bonds increased to 4.28 percent, the
highest level since April 17, and down from 4.81 percent at
year-end, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate & High Yield Index. The figure rose by 9 basis points
from last week. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Very Weak’  The extra yield investors demanded to own corporate bonds
instead of similar-maturity Treasuries increased to 304 basis
points, the highest since Feb. 3, and an 18 basis-point rise
from May 11, the data show.  “The market is very weak,” Marc Gross, a  money manager  at
RS Investments in New York who oversees $3 billion in fixed-
income funds, said in a telephone interview. “Nobody wants to
bring deals if you can avoid it. There aren’t a lot of companies
that are desperate for money.”  Companies sold $9.57 billion of dollar-denominated
investment-grade debt this week, compared with $22.2 billion a
week earlier and 76 percent less than the week ended May 20
2011, Bloomberg data show.  High-yield, high-risk issuance dropped 48 percent this week
to $3.8 billion, Bloomberg data show. Average yields increased
to 7.75 percent, the highest level since April 13, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II
Index. High-yield, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 at
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Treasury Yields  “Secondary market liquidity is declining, volatility is
increasing, and risk-free assets, particularly Treasuries, are
nearing all-time lows,” Marrinan said.  The 10-year Treasury yield decreased to 1.73 percent from
1.84 percent last week, compared with a record low of 1.67
reached in September, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  “From the issuer’s perspective, such low-risk free rates
present a great opportunity,” Marrinan said. “On other hand,
such low rates speak volumes about the anxiety market
participants are feeling about Europe’s problems.”  Kellogg, the maker of Rice Krispies and Pop Tarts, sold
$350 million of 1.125 percent three-year bonds that yielded 80
basis points more than Treasuries, $400 million of 1.75 percent
five-year debt at 115 basis points more than benchmarks and $700
million of 3.125 percent 10-year notes with a 145 basis-point
spread, Bloomberg data show. The coupons were the company’s
lowest on record for each maturity.  High-Yield Issues  Inmet, the Toronto-based developer of the $6.2 billion
Cobre Panama copper mine, increased its debut offering by 50
percent to $1.5 billion, the largest high-yield offering of the
week. The 8.75 percent, eight-year bonds priced to yield 763
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, the data
show.  Apollo Global Management LLC’s Momentive Performance
Materials Inc. sold $250 million of 8.5-year bonds at a spread
of 868 basis points, the data show. The silicone manufacturer
reduced the sale after raising the coupon to 10 percent from the
9.25 percent a person with knowledge of the issue said. It had
previously offered as much as $500 million, according to the
person, who declined to be identified because the marketing was
private.  Select Medical Corp. pulled a $365 million high-yield,
high-risk offering of eight-year notes, the Mechanicsburg,
Pennsylvania-based hospital operator said in a May 14  statement .  The company, which had planned to redeem its $345 million
of 7.625 percent notes due February 2015 with proceeds, was
looking “to opportunistically refinance its indebtedness and
elected not to move ahead with the refinancing due to the rates
currently available for the new debt,” according to the
statement.  Select Medical is rated B1 by Moody’s and B+ at S&P.  “Larger macro and geopolitical concerns are again pushing
to the fore,” Marrinan said. “In such circumstances, issuers
will wait for a ‘risk on’ window to open, hoping to get their
deals done before the window closes on the next bad headline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 