-- Credit Suisse Says Petersen YPF Loan Payable Immediately
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-05-18T20:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/credit-suisse-says-petersen-ypf-loan-payable-immediately.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said the
overdue tranche of a $1 billion loan to Argentina’s Petersen
Group backed by a stake in oil producer  YPF SA (YPF)  is “payable
immediately” in its second notice in seven days.  Credit Suisse sent the warning to the company owned by
Argentina’s Eskenazi family yesterday, a day after a $400
million payment was due, following a previous notice on May 11,
according to a  YPF filing  to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission today. The loan was granted by Credit Suisse,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc (GS) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and Banco Itau BBA SA in 2008 to
help fund the purchase of a 15 percent stake in YPF.  The Eskenazis were using YPF dividends of as much as 90
percent of profit to meet the obligations before the Argentine
government opposed the payments to shareholders last year and
seized control of the oil producer last month. President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  ordered the takeover on April 16,
seizing a 51 percent stake from Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   YPF’s American depositary receipts  declined  4.8 percent to
$12.35, the lowest closing price in almost 10 years, on Dec. 31,
2002, when the shares ended the day at $12.17.  Petersen borrowed $601 million from Credit Suisse, $175
million from BNP, $150 million from Itau BBA and $100 million
from Goldman Sachs in 2008, according to regulatory filings. It
also owes a combined $626 million to Credit Suisse, Itau,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , BNP and  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  as part of a
2011 loan to buy another 10 percent in YPF, the filings show.  De Vido, Kicillof  The bank loans are backed by 22 percent of YPF. Repsol,
which lent Petersen $1.7 billion for the two stake purchases, is
entitled to 3 percent of YPF if the Argentine company defaults.  Fernandez named Planning Minister Julio De Vido and Deputy
Economy Minister Axel Kicillof to oversee YPF management until
the shareholders name a new board. Fernandez also named Miguel Galuccio as YPF general manager.  The government has said Repsol underinvested in Argentina
since its acquisition of YPF, which produces about 35 percent of
the country’s crude. Repsol denied underinvesting and on May 15
started legal action against Argentina and notified officials of
the South American country that it intends to file a claim with
the World Bank’s International Center for the Settlement of
Investment Disputes in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  