-- Cubs Owner Ricketts’ Anti-Obama Plot Risks Stadium Growth
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-05-18T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/cubs-owner-ricketts-anti-obama-plot-risks-stadium-growth.html
For two years, Joe Ricketts has been
building a political operation seeking to curb government
spending that could have reached a crescendo in August with an
unexpected, multimillion dollar attack on President  Barack Obama .  The admission by a Ricketts’ spokesman yesterday that one
proposed advertising campaign focused on the president’s
relationship with a Chicago preacher known for racially charged
sermons removed the element of surprise, increased scrutiny of
his political activity and put at a negotiating disadvantage one
of the Ricketts family’s prized possessions -- the Chicago Cubs.  “Not only was this plan merely a proposal -- one of
several submitted to the Ending Spending Action Fund by third-
party vendors -- but it reflects an approach to politics that
Mr. Ricketts rejects, and it was never a plan to be accepted but
only a suggestion for a direction to take,” Brian Baker,
president of the group, said in a statement issued on Ricketts’
behalf.  The denunciation of the proposal underscores the risks some
wealthy donors, freed by the U.S. Supreme Court in 2010 to spend
unlimited amounts of money on politics, are taking as they use
their fortunes to drive election outcomes.  The Ricketts’ standing in  Chicago , Obama’s hometown and a
city dominated by Democrats, is diminished at a time they are
looking for political and financial support to make renovations
to 98-year-old Wrigley Field baseball stadium and the
neighborhood around it.  Emanuel Livid  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , a former Obama chief of staff,
was said to be livid when he heard of the ad proposal and is
refusing to return the family’s phone calls, even with their
quickly issued statements repudiating the plan, according to an
aide who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  “Some of the plans for Wrigley are controversial
already,” said  Dick Simpson , a political science professor at
the University of Illinois at Chicago and a former city
alderman. “It would make it easy for other aldermen in that
particular case to vote it down.”  It’s an outcome that Ricketts, 70, the founder of  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , hardly could have foreseen when rising
debts and deficits in Washington prompted him to step up his
political engagement.  “It’s a crime for our elected officials to borrow money
today, to spend money today and push the repayment of that loan
out into the future on people who are not even born yet,”
Ricketts said in a video uploaded to YouTube in September 2010
in which he explains his political thinking.  Explaining His Politics  Sitting before a bookcase and pointing at the camera, he
said he was a Democrat until former President Lyndon Johnson’s
spending “pushed me out.” He added that he was a Republican
until President Bush’s spending -- he doesn’t say whether he’s
referring to President  George H.W. Bush  or President  George W. Bush  -- turned him off. He’s now a registered independent, he
said in the video.  Ricketts is a Nebraska native who now lives in Little
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming. He graduated from Creighton University
with an economics degree in 1968, according to a  biography  on
his website, and began his professional career as an  investment
adviser  with Ricketts & Co. In 1975, he co-founded First Omaha
Securities, a retail securities brokerage in Omaha.  Under his leadership, his website says, First Omaha
Securities recognized early the potential of the discount
securities market.  TD Ameritrade  The company grew and evolved into TD Ameritrade, which
today manages hundreds of billions of dollars in client assets.
He served as chief executive officer of Ameritrade Holding Corp.
from 1982 to 2001 and chairman from 1982 to 2008.  In 2009, Forbes magazine  ranked  him as the 371st wealthiest
American with a net worth of $1 billion.  The Ricketts family, the eighth ownership  group  in the 136-
year history of the Cubs, acquired a 95 percent controlling
interest in the team, Wrigley Field and 25 percent of Comcast
Sportsnet Chicago in 2009. Joe Ricketts’ children -- Pete, Tom,
Laura and Todd -- are on the board.  In September 2010, Ricketts, who’d been a long-time
Republican donor, began taking a more direct role in politics by
founding a nonprofit group to oppose politicians who supported
earmarks, designated funding for special projects in their
districts. The organization was called Taxpayers Against
Earmarks Inc. It raised almost $1.3 million in 2010, according
to tax records. The group later changed its name to Ending
Spending Inc.  Sole Contributor  A month later, he filed paperwork with the  Federal Election
Commission  to create a super-PAC, which can take unlimited
donations, that would support the mission of the nonprofit.  Ricketts was the super-PAC’s lone contributor, writing two
checks totaling about $1.2 million, FEC records show. The
committee ran television ads attacking three Democrats -- Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada, Texas Representative Chet Edwards and South Carolina Representative John Spratt -- for
being part of Washington’s “pay to play” culture. Edwards, a
U.S. House member since 1991, and Spratt, in office since 1983,
lost.  A radio ad in support of a fourth Democrat, Representative
Walter Minnick of Idaho, urged voters to re-elect him because
“he understands that we can’t afford wasteful spending” and
“called on both parties to pass a permanent ban on earmarks.”
Minnick lost.  Web Videos  The two organizations remained dormant until late last year
when Ending Spending, the nonprofit, produced web videos
featuring interviews with each of the Republican primary
candidates for president. In them, the candidates discuss their
plans for cutting  government spending  and addressing the federal
 deficit . He gave the maximum -- $2,500 -- to each of the
candidates.  A 30-second television ad aired by Ricketts directs viewers
to the group’s website and doesn’t endorse a specific candidate.
He paid $357,545 to put the spot on television, an FEC
disclosure report shows.  Ricketts’ activities weren’t confined to the presidential.  In December 2011, he wrote a $500,000 check to the Campaign
for Primary Accountability, a group that wants to unseat
incumbents, both Democrats and Republicans.  Backing ‘Outsider’  This week, his super-PAC dropped an unexpected $250,000 on
ads supporting a little-known Nebraska rancher running in the
Republican Senate primary; she’d also received the endorsement
of former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin. One 30-second spot
highlighted the “surprise” element of the rise of the
“conservative outsider” and touted the Palin endorsement.  State Senator Deb Fischer became the upset winner in that
race and will advance to November’s general election against
former U.S. Senator  Bob Kerrey , a Democrat.  Ricketts also is investing $245,000 to fight against the
recall of Republican Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , state
campaign-finance records show.  “Courage is on the ballot,” the narrator says in an ad
that began airing May 10 in Milwaukee, according to New York-
based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a political ad tracker. “Scott
Walker did what he was elected to do.”  The Wyoming investor’s plan for an August ad buy linking
Obama to Chicago Reverend Jeremiah Wright Jr. was first reported
by the  New York  Times yesterday. That forced presumptive
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  to repudiate the strategy and
sent the Ricketts family rushing to make amends with Chicago’s
Democratic hierarchy.  Plans for Wrigley  The Cubs team, which claimed back-to-back World Series
titles in 1907 and 1908 and hasn’t won the championship since,
is seeking support for a proposal to relax Wrigley’s landmark
status and boost its advertising and sponsorship revenue.  The possible changes range from more outfield signs to
street closings every game day to make space for street fairs.
The stadium is among the city’s top tourist attractions.  The team also wants to use about $200 million in projected
growth from existing amusement taxes to construct a building
near the stadium to house its offices, a restaurant, parking,
hall of fame, pro-shop and ticket windows.  Dennis Culloton, a spokesman for the Ricketts family,
dismissed suggestions that the political activity of Joe
Ricketts will be harmful to the stadium proposal.  “You would hope that people will look at all the facts,
and look at the fact that Tom, as chairman of the Cubs, has
nothing to do with his father’s political activity,” he said.  Keeping His Distance  Culloton issued a statement for Tom Ricketts that sought to
distance him from the ad campaign proposal. “As chairman of the
 Chicago Cubs , I repudiate any return to racially divisive issues
in this year’s presidential campaign or in any setting -- like
my father has,” he said in a statement.  Laura Ricketts, a Democrat who has raised at least $500,000
for Obama’s re-election, said in her own statement that members
of her family have “different political views on how to achieve
what is best for the future of America, but we agree that each
of us is entitled to our own views and our right to voice those
views.”  Laura Ricketts may have the best chance of delivering that
message to the mayor and governor, who will influence the final
decisions on the stadium project.  During a joint appearance on April 4 with Illinois Governor
 Pat Quinn , a Democrat, Emanuel took both sides of the stadium
proposal.  “It’s the fourth most-visited tourist attraction in the
city of Chicago,” he said. “That said, it’s a private company.
They bought it. They bought it in 2009, eyes open, well aware.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in  Washington  at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  