-- Czarnikow Sees Brazil’s Dominance in Global Sugar Markets Fading
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-18T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/czarnikow-sees-brazil-s-dominance-in-global-sugar-markets-fading.html
The dominance of top producer  Brazil 
in the global sugar market is fading as the first surplus in
four seasons will come from more supplies in other countries
including  India  and  Thailand , according to Czarnikow Group Ltd.  Sugar supplies will outpace demand by 7.7 million metric
tons in the current season for the first time since 2007-08, the
company, which traded sugar in over 90 countries last year,
estimates. The crop in Brazil’s main growing area has faltered
while processing capacity climbed in India,  Europe ,  China  and
Thailand, the world’s second-biggest shipper, London-based
Czarnikow said in a statement e-mailed today.  Brazil’s role in the sugar market is “seemingly in
decline, and other exporters rising in importance,” Toby Cohen,
a director at the company, said in the statement. “We continue
to believe that 2012 will be a better year for consumers.”  Sugar prices have fallen 11 percent this year after
dropping 27 percent last year, the most in a decade. Bigger and
more affordable supplies will benefit consumers and allow
inventories to be rebuilt, according to Czarnikow. The number of
sellers of the sweetener in the physical market is set to
increase, according to the statement.  “Lower sugar prices and more availability mean producers
are going to have to work harder to control their costs after
three years of good prices,” Peter de Klerk, an analyst at the
company, said in the statement.  Prices closer to the cost of production will probably
discourage sellers from increasing output, Czarnikow said. The
market will continue to focus on whether Brazil will be able to
increase cane output, it said.  The crop in Brazil’s center south, the main growing region
in the country, is forecast to be 509 million tons in 2012-13,
up from 493.3 million tons in 2011-12, industry group Unica
estimates. The record was 556.7 million tons in 2010-11,
according to Unica data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 