-- East Europe Again at Risk of Euro Fallout, Development Bank Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-05-18T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/east-europe-again-at-risk-of-euro-fallout-development-bank-says.html
Economies in Eastern  Europe  and
Central Asia are at risk from a deepening debt crisis in the
euro area and rising energy prices, the  European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development  said.  Economic growth in the 29 countries in which the London-
based EBRD invests will be 3.2 percent this year, slowing from 5
percent in 2011, the bank predicted today in an e-mailed report.
The region will expand 3.7 percent in 2013, according to its
forecast.  Eastern Europe faces renewed contagion from the euro crisis
as uncertainty over  Greece ’s future as a member of the currency
union endangers credit flows and export markets, the EBRD has
warned. Under its baseline scenario, it assumes the crisis will
be contained, with a mild recession in the euro region.  “The euro-area crisis will continue to negatively impact
those economies in the transition region that are the most
intertwined with those of the  euro zone ,” the bank said. “A
further worsening of the euro-zone crisis or an oil-supply shock
are both possible and pose significant downside risks.”  Eastern Europe relies on financing from western lenders
such as UniCredit SpA and Erste Group Bank AG, which own three-
quarters of the region’s banking industry. The banks are cutting
funding to their eastern units as stricter regulatory
requirements force them to sell assets and bolster capital.  “As European parent banks continue to deleverage,
subsidiaries in the transition countries will see reduced cross-
border funding and therefore extend less credit,” the EBRD
said. “These bank-related capital outflows are expected to
continue in the coming months.”  Foreign banks’ exposure to emerging Europe fell by less
than 3 percent in the last quarter of 2011, about half the drop
recorded in the previous three months, the EBRD said, citing
data from the  Bank for International Settlements . In central
Europe and the three Baltic nations, cross-border bank claims
dropped by about 5 percent in both the third and fourth
quarters, according to the report.  The EBRD, owned by 63 countries and two intergovernmental
institutions, was created in 1991 to help transform the
economies of former communist countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in Astana at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  