-- Eastern Europe Faces Credit Risk as Development Bank Meets
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-05-18T17:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/eastern-europe-faces-credit-risk-again-as-development-bank-meets.html
The European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, which invests as much as 11 billion euros ($14
billion) a year in nations from  Russia  to  Egypt , met today with
credit flows again threatened by a resurgent euro crisis.  Shareholders elected Suma Chakrabarti, permanent secretary
at the U.K. Justice Ministry, to head the London-based bank for
the next four years. The 63 countries that own the EBRD with the
European Union and the European Investment Bank are tomorrow due
to approve 1 billion euros of lending to new democracies in the
southern and eastern Mediterranean this year.  The EBRD has led efforts to avert a banking-industry
collapse in eastern Europe, which was hardest hit by the global
financial crisis that followed Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.’s
2008 demise. It has warned of renewed contagion risks as concern
about  Greece  leaving the euro endangers funding from the western
European banks that dominate lending in the region’s east.  “Given the Greek risk, euro-zone banks will probably be
reluctant to increase their exposure to emerging Europe,”
 William Jackson , an economist at London-based Capital Economics,
said yesterday by phone. “At best it looks like they’ll have a
slow, gradual deleveraging from the region. This will be quite
troubling for growth in several economies.”  Forint, Zloty  Hungary’s forint and  Poland ’s zloty have been the world’s
worst and fourth-worst performers against the euro in the last
five days, declining 2.7 percent and 1.8 percent, respectively.
The forint fell 0.4 percent to 298.88 today in Budapest, while
the zloty strengthened 0.2 percent to 4.3450.  Riskier assets extended slumps after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  this week acknowledged for the first time
that Greece may leave the monetary union.  Western European banking groups have a “very strong” need
to shed assets and reduce the size of their loan portfolios,
Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka said today during a
panel discussion on the sidelines of the meeting. Still, there
are no obvious reasons for the banks to pull out of eastern
 Europe , he said.  “We need deleveraging if we accept the notion that one of
the sources” of the crisis “is too much debt,” he said. “The
problem with eastern Europe is that it’s not clear that there is
too much debt.”  Western lenders have been profitable in eastern Europe,
which means it’s not that region where they should primarily
reduce assets, he said.  Tighter Rules  Tighter regulation, such as the Basel III rules, is
required to bolster the global financial system, Belka said,
adding that regulators have performed better in eastern Europe
than in the continent’s west.  Eastern Europe relies on financing from western lenders
such as  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , which own three-
quarters of the region’s banking industry. The banks are cutting
funding to their eastern units as stricter regulatory
requirements force them to sell assets and bolster capital.  It also depends on western Europe to buy products including
cars from  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Czech-based unit, Skoda Auto.  “The trade channel, which is the most important between
the euro area and central Europe, is having an impact because of
slowing demand from the western parts of Europe,” EBRD
President  Thomas Mirow  told reporters May 15. “It comes on top
that we see an ongoing process of deleveraging of western banks,
making credit and loans more difficult to access.”  First Competitive Vote  Chakrabarti won the first competitive leadership vote in
the EBRD’s two-decade history, displacing incumbent Mirow, 59,
who was bidding for a second term at the helm. The EU, which has
chosen all five EBRD heads to date, failed to back a single
candidate at a May 14 meeting in Brussels.  Other challengers were  France ’s Philippe de Fontaine Vive Curtaz, vice president at the  European Investment Bank , ex-
Polish Prime Minister Jan-Krzysztof Bielecki and Bozidar Djelic,
a former deputy premier of  Serbia .  Created in 1991 to support the transition of eastern
Europe’s former communist nations to market-driven democracy,
the EBRD has invested 71 billion euros in the last two decades.  Tunisia, Egypt, Morocco and Jordan are in line to become
recipients under its expansion plans, with resources allocated
to that region to reach as much as 2.5 billion euros a year this
decade in addition to 8.5 billion euros a year invested in
eastern Europe and central  Asia , the bank has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  