-- Medina Capitalizes on Gaffes Ahead of Dominican Republic Vote
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/medina-capitalizes-on-gaffes-ahead-of-dominican-republic-vote.html
Dominican Republic  ruling party
candidate Danilo Medina is gaining in polls ahead of this
weekend’s presidential election after a series of gaffes by his
rival prompted voters to embrace his promise of continuity.  Medina chose outgoing first lady Margarita Cedeno as his
running mate in a bid to remind voters that his ally President
Leonel Fernandez delivered average annual economic growth of 7
percent since 2004. While Medina is still locked in a
statistical tie with former President Hipolito Mejia, the latest
surveys show Medina gaining an edge ahead of the first round of
balloting May 20.  Mejia’s pledge last month to remove Supreme Court justices
he viewed as unqualified and a joke about U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s being born in Africa reminded the Caribbean island’s 10
million citizens of the turmoil that marked his 2000-2004 term,
when public debt surged and the country’s second-biggest bank
collapsed, said  Boris Segura , a  Latin America  analyst with
Nomura Securities International. Even members of his Dominican
Revolutionary Party came to the high court’s defense while the
Senate condemned Mejia’s remarks about Obama.  “Mejia has behaved extremely erratically,” said Segura in
a telephone interview from New York. “That has only added to
Medina’s lead.”  Rising Approval  Medina, a 60-year-old former chief of staff to Fernandez
who joined the Dominican Liberation Party almost 40 years ago,
had 51 percent support compared with 46 percent for Mejia in a
survey of 1,022 people taken May 2-7 by pollster  Greenberg
Quinlan Rosener  and Santo Domingo-based newspaper Diario Libre.  The remaining support was spread among the four other
candidates, according to the poll whose margin of error was 3.1
percentage points.  Medina, who would be able to count on a majority in
Congress for the duration of his four-year term, leads in all
regions of the country and has seen his support climb 4
percentage points from 47 percent since late March, with a
majority saying he would better manage the economy, the poll
said.  As president, Mejia oversaw the country’s only contraction
in at least 20 years when the economy shrank in 2003.  While growth in the $57 billion economy slowed to 4.5
percent last year from 7.8 percent in 2010, the mining sector
expanded 80 percent, according to the  central bank .  Fernandez said further growth is expected in 2012 due to
continued extraction of nickel at the Zug, Switzerland-based
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  Falcondo mine and the beginning of gold production
at the Pueblo Viejo mine by Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)   Chavez Factor  Whoever wins the election will have to rein in electricity
subsidies that contributed to the deficit before interest of 0.4
percent of gross domestic product last year.  The dependence on cheap fuel from  Venezuela  raises investor
concern about what will happen if President  Hugo Chavez , who is
battling cancer while seeking re-election, doesn’t remain in
power.  “If something happens in Venezuela and that program
disappears, it’s going to be a problem for us,” said Bernardo
Vega, a former central bank governor, in an April 23 interview
in  Washington . “We depend a lot on the financing provided by
Chavez.”  More than 40 percent of the electricity produced by the
state-run Corporacion Dominicana de Empresas Electricas
Estatales, known as CDEEE, incurs a loss because of subsidies
that total $900 million a year, or 1.6 percent of GDP, according
to Heather Berkman, an analyst at the Eurasia Group, a political
risk consultancy in  New York .  ‘Crux,’ Gaffe  “The power sector is the fundamental crux of the
macroeconomic imbalances right now,” Berkman said in a
telephone interview from New York. “The country has been
wasting so much on propping up an inefficient and poorly run
distribution company for a very long time.”  Mejia, who defeated Medina in the 2000 election, has tried
to capitalize on frustration with  unemployment  that, while
having fallen from 18.4 percent since Fernandez took office,
remains among the highest in Latin America at 14.6 percent.  The 71-year-old has vowed to create over 400,000 jobs and
invest 4 percent of GDP in education.  After running in a statistical tie with Medina through
early April, Mejia made a misstep on a campaign stop last month
in New York, where thousands of Dominicans are expected to vote.  Speaking at a campaign rally, he joked that Obama was
“born and raised in  Africa .” He further unsettled voters when
upon his return home he accused Supreme Court justices of being
“shameless and lazy,” earning rebuke from his own party.  ‘Problems,’‘Progress’  Mejia has criticized state-run CDEEE throughout his
campaign for its excessive losses and poor collection practices
and has deemed electricity reform a priority of his
administration.  Mejia has also referred to the CDEEE as “bottomless
barrel” and that increased electricity subsidies and improved
billing measures will accompany the new IMF Stand-By Agreement.  “To resolve the problems of the people of the country, it
is imperative that our government rests on two fundamental
pillars: macroeconomic stability and a social policy that
provides equal benefits to all Dominicans,” he said in a May 9
campaign address posted on his website.  Press officials from the Medina and Mejia campaigns didn’t
respond to e-mail and phone messages seeking comment.  “With my administration, change will be safe,” Medina
said in a May 10 interview with his campaign’s website. “We’ll
assure that the progress that has been made in recent years
won’t be threatened.”  IMF Talks  Both Mejia and Medina have vowed to restart negotiations
with the IMF after a $1.7 billion  credit line  to help the nation
weather the global financial crisis expired in
February and the government resisted raising energy costs.  The yield on the country’s dollar bonds due in 2021 has
fallen 80 basis points, or 0.8 percentage points, this year to
6.75 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield
on  emerging market dollar  bonds fell 44 basis points to 5.64
percent over the same period. The country’s peso has declined
1.3 percent to 39.2 per dollar.  To win in the first round of the elections and avoid a June
24 run-off, a candidate must receive more than 50 percent of the
ballots cast. Mejia, who had been in a statistical tie with
Medina through early April, could still see a rally in support,
Berkman said.  “It’s still too close to call,” Berkman said. “The
numbers and trends all look to be in Medina’s favor, though my
gut feeling is that Mejia still has a chance to take it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  