-- Egypt’s Aboul-Fotouh Says Islamist Candidacy Can Unify
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-05-18T13:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/egypt-s-consensus-islamist-aboul-fotouh-seeks-presidency.html
The speakers who took to the stage
last month to praise Abdel-Moneim Aboul-Fotouh at the start of
his Egyptian presidential campaign were a diverse bunch,
including a Christian politician, a female movie star and a
former member of the Muslim Brotherhood. More recently, he won
backing from an ultraconservative Salafi group.  In a country increasingly polarized after the revolt
against  Hosni Mubarak , the 60-year-old Aboul-Fotouh, a physician
by training, presents his unlikely coalition as proof he can
straddle the divide between Islamists and people concerned that
religious politics will erode their rights. Most polls place him
in the top three before the voting starts on May 23, giving him
a strong chance of qualifying for the run-off starting June 16
between the two leading candidates.  Aboul-Fotouh and  Amre Moussa  are “the two clear
frontrunners,” said  Shadi Hamid , director of research at the
Brookings Doha Center in Qatar. Aboul-Fotouh “has done
something that very few Egyptian politicians have been able to
do, and that is to transcend the partisan divide. He’s been able
to appeal to liberals and Islamists simultaneously.”  Aboul-Fotouh served prison terms in the Mubarak era when
Moussa served as foreign minister. His campaign highlights that
dissident background and his support for last year’s revolution
to back promises of change, including a shift in taxes to favor
the poor. Support from secular activists has helped Aboul-Fotouh
allay concerns about Islamist dominance, in an election that has
boiled down into a contest between candidates with a religious
background and those with ties to the old regime.  Power Handover  The vote is due to mark the conclusion of Egypt’s often
tumultuous transition to democracy and civilian rule after the
ouster of Mubarak in February last year. Instability has delayed
economic recovery as tourists and investors stay away. Borrowing
costs are near record highs, the central bank has spent almost
60 percent of Egypt’s foreign currency reserves, and the
government is seeking a $3.2 billion loan from the  International
Monetary Fund . One-year pound futures fell to a record low
yesterday, signaling investors expect a 20 percent devaluation.  The generals who took over after the uprising say they will
stand down after the election, whose result is due on June 21.
Tensions have escalated between Islamists, who won parliamentary
elections ending in January, and the army council, and there
have been frequent outbreaks of violence at protests in Cairo,
leaving dozens dead.  Shariah Protection  A member of the Muslim Brotherhood until last year, when he
announced his intention to seek the presidency in defiance of
the Brotherhood’s leadership, Aboul-Fotouh is ahead of the
group’s official candidate, Mohamed Morsi, in local polls. Most
surveys have showed him trailing only Moussa, though a survey in
state-run Al-Ahram newspaper this week had Ahmed Shafik, a
former air-force commander and premier under Mubarak, in second
place.  As frontrunners, Aboul-Fotouh and Moussa were the only
candidates to take part in  Egypt ’s first televised presidential
debate on May 10, trading barbs over more than four hours about
past ties to Mubarak and the Brotherhood, and offering
prescriptions for Islam’s role in the state.  “There is no contradiction between religion and
citizenship, religion and constitution, or religion and the
state,” Aboul-Fotouh said. The Islamic Shariah law protects the
rights of everyone, whatever their religious beliefs or
backgrounds, he said.  ‘Biased’ to Poor  While Aboul-Fotouh touted the diversity of his support,
Moussa said that showed his insincerity. “With the Salafis,
he’s a Salafi, with the liberals a liberal, and he’s a moderate
with the moderates,” Moussa said.  Aboul-Fotouh’s manifesto advocates an economic policy
“clearly biased to the poorer classes,” and calls for a more
progressive tax system including charges on  capital gains  and
luxury items. While other candidates have made similar pledges,
Aboul-Fotouh’s broad support would enable him to go further in
changing economic policy, said Samer Atallah, who advises him.  “The philosophy is that Egyptian individuals should be the
target of development, not just a tool for economic growth,”
said Atallah, an assistant professor of economics at the
American University in Cairo. He also criticizes Moussa’s plans
to seek more foreign loans, saying: “We think that borrowing is
not a solution.”  Moussa will be favored by those “who want change but not
too much of it” after the upheaval of the past two years, Hamid
said. “He’s the fear candidate.” Moussa says his experience as
a statesman and network of contacts will give him an edge.  Army Objections  Islamist politicians won about three-quarters of seats in
parliament’s lower house, with almost half going to the
Brotherhood’s party and a quarter to Salafi bloc, followers of a
stricter version of Islam. The latter’s backing for Aboul-Fotouh
in the presidential contest has unnerved some of his secularist
supporters.  Journalist and commentator Hamdi Kandil hailed Aboul-Fotouh
as a “genuine candidate of the revolution” at his campaign
launch in Cairo’s Al-Azhar park. By May 14, he was writing in Al
Masry Al Youm newspaper that his “religious frame of reference
sparks fears.”  Divisions between the different strands of political Islam
mean that Aboul-Fotouh isn’t guaranteed the support of other
groups if he reaches the run-off. “There’s a real chance that
if it’s Moussa versus Aboul-Fotouh in the second round, the
Brotherhood won’t support Aboul-Fotouh,” though it would be
unlikely to openly endorse Moussa either, Hamid said.  ‘Back in Tahrir’  Brotherhood spokesman Mahmoud Ghozlan said in a phone
interview that some group members have frequently clashed with
Aboul-Fotouh over “ideas that we think run contrary to the
constants of Islam.”  Nor will Aboul-Fotouh be favored by the army, said Ashraf
el-Sherif, a political scientist at the American University of
Cairo. “The military will not accept a president who is
affiliated with the revolution, and an Islamist,” he said.  The generals say they regard all candidates equally and
promise a clean and fair vote.  Mariam Mahmoud, a 28-year-old supporter at the Aboul-Fotouh
rally, says it made her feel “as if I was back in  Tahrir Square 
last year,” referring to the anti-Mubarak protests. “All of
Egypt’s groups were represented, and we all share a dream,” she
said. “What we need now is someone who can bring Egyptians
together again.”  Defying Sadat  The rally features a presentation highlighting the
candidate’s history of challenging authority -- and the repeated
jail terms it landed him with. In 2007, he defied the
Brotherhood’s official line by backing the right of women and
Egypt’s minority Coptic Christians to compete for the
presidency.  As well as patriotic songs, supporters heard a recording of
the late Anwar Sadat meeting university students in the 1970s.
One of them was outspoken. “There are no scholars left in
Egypt, except those who are sycophantic to the authorities, and
to you,” the young Aboul-Fotouh told the president, earning a
furious rebuke from the president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 