-- Emerging Stocks Head for Longest Streak of Weekly Losses
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-18T22:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/emerging-market-stocks-head-for-biggest-weekly-loss-in-8-months.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
ninth week, the longest string of weekly declines since 1994, as
Citigroup Inc. cut its estimate for the gauge and oil dropped to
a six-month low.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  sank 1.5 percent to 906.61
by 4:32 p.m. in  New York , increasing its loss on the week to 6.6
percent, the most in eight months. The gauge erased its annual
gain as Europe’s debt crisis worsened. The MSCI Bric Index fell
for a ninth week as Russia’s Micex retreated to a seven-month
low and the ruble weakened 0.7 percent, dropping 11 days in the
longest run of losses since January 2009. Brazil’s Bovespa
snapped an eight-day decline on LLX Logistica SA’s 4.4 percent
jump.  Citigroup reduced its year-end estimate for the MSCI gauge
of 21 developing nations to 1,100 from 1,225, citing concern
Greece will exit the euro and China’s economy will slow further,
Geoffrey Dennis, the brokerage’s global emerging-market
strategist in New York, wrote in a report yesterday. Crude oil
fell 1.2 percent to $91.48 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the lowest settlement since Oct. 26.  “Oil is clearly the challenge right now,” Simon Quijano- Evans, chief emerging-market economist at ING Groep NV, said by
phone from  London  today. “The global situation is driving  oil
prices  down and that has really bad implications for importers
and producers in the  emerging markets .”  ‘Summer Doldrums’  The  MSCI BRIC (MXBRIC)  Index dropped 0.7 percent, extending its loss
for a ninth week, the longest string of declines since Sept. 21,
2001. An MSCI gauge tracking technology companies sank 3.7
percent, the most among the developing-nation index’s 10
industries.  The MSCI Emerging Markets gauge’s 14-day  relative strength
index , which tracks momentum by comparing closing prices with
daily trading ranges, fell to 13.9 today. A reading of 30 or
below is a signal some investors use to indicate prices may be
about to rise.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF tracking developing-nation shares,
fell 1 percent to $37.29. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, rose 3.5
percent to 37.42.  “We do not expect significant outperformance by emerging
market equities in the near term,” Citigroup’s Dennis said in
the report. “Prolonged summer doldrums, even further near-term
weakness, seem likely before a rally later in the year.”  Moody’s Investors Service lowered debt ratings at 16
Spanish banks yesterday, citing the recession and mounting loan
losses, and  Greece ’s credit rating was reduced one level by
 Fitch Ratings  on concern the country may not be able to sustain
membership in the euro area.  Russia Falls on Oil  The  benchmark gauge  in Russia slid 1.3 percent, increasing
its weekly retreat to 8.7 percent, the most since Sept. 25.
Mosenergo OAO fell 6.7 percent to lead declines on the gauge.  Brazil’s Bovespa added 0.8 percent, after an eight-day
strong of declines. LLX Logistica surged after the company said
it’s in “preliminary negotiations” for new letting contracts
in the Superporto do Acu.  Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index dropped 0.7 percent.
 Anadolu Cam Sanayii AS (ANACM) , a Turkish glassmaker, slumped 3.1
percent to a four-month low after first-quarter profit missed
analysts’ estimates. Hungary’s BUX jumped 1.2 percent.  In  South Africa , the  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  slid
1.2 percent, the lowest in four months.  Palabora Mining Co. (PAM) , a
copper miner, fell 5.2 percent to the lowest price this year.  Property Prices  Chinese  home prices  fell in 46 of 70 cities in April, a
record high, the National Bureau of Statistics reported today.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 1.4 percent while the
Hang Seng China Enterprise Index fell 1.3 percent to the lowest
level since November.  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. (2777)  led a decline by Chinese
developers, sliding 5.9 percent.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which
gets 40 percent of sales from Europe and America, slid 4.7
percent on concern overseas demand will slow.  Anta Sports Products Ltd., (2020)  a Chinese sportswear maker,
tumbled 9.2 percent in Hong Kong to the lowest close in more
than three years after saying that intensifying competition has
been affecting the company’s profitability over the past several
quarters.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 406, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  