-- EPA Warns of Risk to Salmon Posed by Alaskan Mine Project
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-05-18T21:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/epa-warns-of-risks-to-salmon-from-mining-in-alaska-s-bristol-bay.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency said large-scale salmon habitats may be harmed by mining
near  Bristol Bay ,  Alaska , where  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  is working
with a partner to study developing a new  copper mine .  “There is potential for certain activities associated with
large-scale mining to have adverse impacts on the productivity
and sustainability of the salmon fishery in the watershed,” the
agency said in a statement today accompanying a 338-page draft
report.  The Kvichak River, part of the Bristol Bay watershed in
southwest Alaska, produces more sockeye salmon than any other
river in the world, according to the EPA. A subsidiary of
London-based Anglo American and an affiliate of Vancouver-based
 Northern Dynasty Minerals Ltd. (NDM)  formed a partnership in 2007 to
work on the mine project.  The so-called Pebble mine prospect area, in the watershed,
has one of the world’s largest concentrations of three metals,
with 80.6 billion pounds of copper, 5.6 billion pounds of
molybdenum and 107.4 million ounces of gold, according to the
Pebble partnership’s  website .  Seeking Comment  The EPA said it studied the potential effect of mining in
response to the companies’ announced plans and widespread
interest among residents. The draft report will be circulated
for comment.  The agency said in a statement on its website that it
hasn’t decided whether a mine in the area would be regulated
under the  Clean Water Act , and the report will help inform that
decision.  The EPA study, completed in just one year, was hurried,
John Shively, chief executive officer of Pebble Partnership,
said in a statement.  “We are concerned that the EPA may use this rushed process
as the basis for an unprecedented regulatory action against the
Pebble Project,” Shively said. “We believe it would be
unprecedented and entirely inappropriate for the EPA to take
steps to stop our project before it has been fully designed” or
a permit has been applied for, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  