-- Merrill Sued by South Korea’s Woori Bank Over CDO Losses
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-18T22:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/merrill-sued-by-south-korea-s-woori-bank-over-cdo-losses-1-.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch
unit was sued by Woori Bank over losses on $143 million in
collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs.  Woori, based in  Seoul , claimed in a complaint filed today
in Manhattan federal court that Merrill defrauded it in a series
of transactions in 2005 and 2006, selling interests in seven
CDOs designed to move toxic mortgage assets off Merrill’s books.  Merrill used misleading credit ratings to hide the risks of
mortgages underlying its CDOs and residential mortgage-backed
securities, or RMBS, Woori said in the complaint.  “Defendants knew that the RMBS that they and other major
banks were packaging into CDOs included a significant percentage
of mortgages that violated basic underwriting standards and were
likely to default,” Woori said in its complaint.  Bill Halldin , a Merrill spokesman, declined to comment on
the suit. Merrill was acquired in 2009 by  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America.  Unjust Enrichment  In its complaint, Woori claimed Merrill is liable for
fraud, negligent misrepresentation and unjust enrichment. The
Korean bank seeks damages of at least $143 million plus
unspecified punitive damages.  Earlier this week, Woori filed a similar complaint against
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  over $95 million in CDO investments by the South
Korean bank.  James Griffiths , a Hong Kong-based spokesman for New York-
based Citigroup, called Woori’s allegations “totally without
merit” and said the bank will defend itself in court.  “The Merrill Lynch and Citi complaints show that Wall
Street bankers systematically disregarded their clients during
the lead-up to the 2008 credit crisis,” Christopher Lebsock, a
lawyer representing Woori, said in an e-mail today.  “The bankers clearly knew that the CDO machine they had
created was unsustainable, but their short-term interest in
profits and bonuses led them to pressure the  ratings agencies ,
and others, into creating a false public impression that CDOs
were a safe investment option,” Lebsock said.  Woori Bank is a unit of Woori Finance Holdings Co.,  South
Korea ’s largest financial company by assets.  The Merrill case is Woori Bank v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Inc., 12-cv-3993, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The Citigroup case is Woori
Bank v. Citigroup Inc., 12-cv-3868, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  