-- Test All Baby Boomers for Hepatitis C, CDC Urges
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-05-18T18:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/test-all-baby-boomers-for-hepatitis-c-cdc-urges.html
Rising deaths among  baby boomers  from
hepatitis C prompted U.S. health officials to declare the entire
age group a risk factor for the liver infection and recommend
that all of its members be tested for the disease.  About 3.2 million Americans have hepatitis C and 75 percent
of infected adults are boomers, which the Atlanta-based  Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention  defined as those born from
1945 to 1965. Because symptoms of hepatitis C are often silent
for years, most don’t know they have it, the agency said today.  Testing may help prevent cirrhosis and liver cancer, both
of which result from infection, public health officials said.
Baby boomers were infected in their teens and 20s, either
through blood transfusions before HIV concerns prompted
widespread screening in 1992, or with experimental injection
drug use. Hepatitis C is often asymptomatic while it damages the
liver, the CDC said in a statement.  “It’s a bold action that’s become necessary because
there’s a large population that’s unaware of their illness,
becoming ill, and dying in an era of effective treatment,” said
John W. Ward, director of the division of viral hepatitis at the
CDC, in a telephone interview.  There are an estimated 78 million baby boomers in the U.S.,
according to the 2006 Census. The CDC suggestion is included in
draft guidelines for hepatitis C testing that will undergo
public comment from May 22 to June 8. A study published in
February in the Annals of  Internal Medicine  found that 15,000
people died from the virus from 1999 to 2007.  Standard Treatment  The standard treatment for hepatitis C for the past decade
has been a combination of the antiviral drug ribavirin with
interferon, an immune-boosting protein. Patients receive weekly
shots of Interferon for as long as a year, which can cause side
effects such as fatigue and flu-like symptoms.  A new class of drugs were introduced last year called
protease inhibitors, including Victrelis from  Whitehouse
Station , New Jersey-based  Merck (MRK)  & Co. and Incivek by  Vertex (VRTX) 
Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Cambridge,  Massachusetts . These
medicines attack the virus itself, and have been shown to cure
more patients in less time with fewer side effects, although
they still must be combined with Interferon shots.  A further breakthrough may come this year with the
development of the experimental drug class called nucleotide
polymerase inhibitors, which bind to a different part of the
virus than the protease inhibitors, and could become the
backbone for an Interferon-free combination.  Drug Combinations  Abbott Laboratories,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ,  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , Merck and Vertex are among the
drugmakers acquiring and developing these new therapies as they
seek a combination that may lead to a pill to control the
disease, similar to the approach taken with HIV drugs.  One in 30 baby boomers have been infected with hepatitis C,
according to the CDC. Just one test of all the members of that
generation may identify 800,000 people with hepatitis C,
preventing liver cancer and perhaps saving 120,000 lives.  “We believe this cost-effective public health approach can
help protect the health of an entire generation of Americans,”
Ward said today during a conference call.  The baby boomers are a new addition to the guidelines for
who should be screened. Others at increased risk include anyone
who has ever injected illegal drugs, recipients of blood
transfusions or organ transplants before July 1992, and people
with HIV.  Liver cancer is the fastest-growing cause of  cancer death 
in the U.S. and hepatitis C is the leading cause of liver
cancer, Ward said. A blood test is the only way to identify
hepatitis C infections, according to the CDC.  “Most cancer deaths are going down and this is one of the
few that continues to escalate,” Ward said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  