-- Europe Crisis Pushes Default Swaps to Biggest Rise in 8 Months
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-05-18T19:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/europe-crisis-pushes-default-swaps-to-biggest-rise-in-8-months.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
is set for the biggest weekly rise since September as  Europe ’s
worsening debt crisis rattles confidence.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 15.2 basis points this week, the
most since Sept. 23, to a mid-price of 123.7 basis points at
2:36 p.m. in New York. The gauge has climbed by 0.6 basis point
today.  Investors have pushed the gauge higher this month on
concern that European leaders may fail to prevent fiscal turmoil
from spreading globally, damaging the balance sheet of American
corporations. Spreads on high-yield bonds in a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index jumped by 22 basis points to 644 basis
points yesterday, the highest level since Feb. 6.  “The increase in sovereign-related volatility during the
first few weeks of May is eerily reminiscent of last spring,”
Barclays Plc strategists led by Jeffrey Meli and Bradley Rogoff
said in a research note today. “We do not believe that markets
have priced in enough risk relative to some of the larger macro
concerns.”  Spreads on  junk bonds  had touched a high of 910 basis
points in October, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. The catalyst for the rise this week in the extra yield
investors demand to hold junk-rated bonds instead of Treasuries
was a shift in investor sentiment and the possibility of future
outflows, the Barclays analysts wrote in the report.  ‘Risk-Off Signals’  The move isn’t likely to spark as severe a selloff as the
threats in the market aren’t as great as last year, according
toRoger Horn, managing director and head of credit research for
the Americas at Societe Generale SA.  “Classic high-yield managers know that and are not going
to run away from their holdings,” he said in a telephone
interview. “But the high-yield bond market cannot be resistant
to other risk-off signals.”  Citigroup Inc. downgraded its view on high-yield debt from
neutral to negative last week, citing “full valuations,
consistent risk-off signals in other markets and weakening U.S.
economic growth.”  Jobless claims  in the U.S. held at 370,000, higher than
what economists forecast, while the index of U.S. leading
indicators unexpectedly fell in April, showing the pace of
economic expansion may cool.  Liquidity  The default-swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates, increased by 16 basis points in the
week ending Sept. 23. The gauge has gained for 12 straight days
this month.  “Liquidity in cash is low compared to the CDX indices,”
Barclays credit strategist Shobhit Gupta said in a telephone
interview. “The move wider in derivative spreads appears to be
driven in part by an increase in hedging activity.”  The swaps contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  