-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Drop in Eight Months
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-drop-in-eight-months.html
European stocks  posted the biggest
weekly drop since September as  Greece  moved closer to a possible
exit from the euro and concern mounted that Spanish banks will
need rescue.  A  gauge of lenders  slumped for the third week, as  Banco
Espirito Santo SA (BES)  lost the most since at least 1993. Bankia SA
lost 15 percent.  Opap SA (OPAP)  closed in Athens trading with the
biggest slide since it sold shares to the public in 2001, after
first-quarter profit decreased 21 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 5.2 percent to 238.88 this
week. The gauge has tumbled 12 percent since this year’s high on
March 16 as Greek leaders failed to form a government after
elections, squabbling over austerity measures.  “The markets are signaling a risk-off attitude and signs
of fatigue regarding the question about what to do with Greece
are evident,” said Ben Hauzenberger, a Zurich-based  fund
manager  at Swisscanto Asset Management AG, which oversees $53
billion. “Investors are wondering what will happen to the euro
in the case of a Greek exit and which countries could follow in
its footsteps.”  National benchmark indexes fell in all the 18 western
European markets this week. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  declined 5.5
percent. France’s CAC 40 lost 3.9 percent and Germany’s DAX slid
4.7 percent. Greece’s ASE Index plunged 10 percent.  Greek Deadlock  Greece’s President Karolos Papoulias failed to secure
agreement on a unity government that could have avoided new
elections. He swore in a caretaker government led by Panagiotis Pikrammenos.  The new vote, set for June 17, follows inconclusive
elections that propelled the Syriza group, which opposes
austerity measures required for an international bailout, into
second place. Most opinion polls have suggested that Syriza may
build on that support in the rerun.  “If Greece -- and this is the will of the great majority -
- wants to stay in the euro, then they have to accept the
conditions,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in
Brussels on May 15. “Otherwise it isn’t possible. No
responsible candidate can hide that from the electorate.”  Greece’s credit rating was downgraded one level to CCC from
B- by  Fitch Ratings  on May 17.  Separately, the  European Central Bank  said it suspended
lending to some Greek banks to limit its risk. President  Mario Draghi  signaled the ECB won’t compromise on key principles to
keep Greece in the euro area.  Spanish Downgrades  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 16 Spanish banks on
May 17, citing the nation’s recession, reduced funding access
for lenders and deterioration in loan quality that will spread
beyond real estate to household and company loans.  Spain’s borrowing costs rose at its bond auction that day
as it sold the maximum amount of notes targeted and its 10-year
bond yields approached levels that drove Greece and Portugal
into bailouts.  Spanish Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre
denied speculation that  Bankia (BKIA) , the lender with the biggest
domestic asset base, was seeing a deposit flight. Bankia said in
a regulatory filing that changes in the deposit level in the
first half of May “have a substantially seasonal nature” and
that it doesn’t expect “substantial changes” in coming days.  Euro-Area Economy  Elsewhere, a report showed that  gross domestic product  in
the 17-nation euro area stagnated in the first quarter compared
with the final three months of 2011, according to the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg. The median forecast  of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg had called for a 0.2 percent
contraction.  Germany’s economy  expanded 0.5 percent, compared
with the 0.1 percent median estimate of economists in a separate
survey.  Banco Espirito Santo sank 22 percent, as the Stoxx 600
Banks Index tumbled 8.7 percent.  Bankia plunged 15 percent after El Mundo reported that
customers have withdrawn 1 billion euros ($1.27 billion) since
May 9, when the government said it will take over the bank. The
Spanish lender also said provisions for soured property loans
will be 115 times last year’s earnings.  National Bank of Greece lost 15 percent to its lowest price
since at least September 1992 as the country’s central bank
chief said citizens had withdrawn as much as 700 million euros
from Greek banks since May 6.  Italian Banks  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the biggest Italian
lenders, declined 14 percent and 6.9 percent, respectively,
after Moody’s cut the credit ratings of 26 of the nation’s
banks.  Opap, Europe’s biggest listed  gambling company , retreated
27 percent, the most since at least May 2001, after first-
quarter profit fell 21 percent on higher net-interest expenses
and lower sales.  Separately, Imerisia reported that the company’s agents
have asked for a 30 percent commission on gross winnings from
planned video lottery terminal games.  BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, the biggest mining
companies listed in  London , declined 8.6 percent and 11 percent,
respectively. Data showed  China ’s home prices fell in a record
number of cities last month and car dealers posted inventory
levels that signaled deeper price cuts.  Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA)  plunged 15 percent. The owner of the
Darty electronics chain said French revenue slumped in the final
quarter of the fiscal year as consumers bought fewer televisions
after a switchover to digital reception last year.  Nexans SA (NEX) , the world’s second-biggest cable maker, dropped
16 percent after Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Vincent  said
business in Libya may not resume until end of the year because
of security issues in the country.  Iliad SA (ILD) , the broadband provider founded by entrepreneur
Xavier Niel, gained 6.5 percent after the company won 2.6
million mobile subscribers in its first 80 days as France’s
fourth mobile-network operator. First-quarter sales climbed 29
percent.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR)  climbed 3.2 percent. The owner
of the Cartier brand reported full-year profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as sales were boosted by buoyant demand for
high-end goods in the Asia-Pacific region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  