-- Ex-BP Engineer Asks U.S. Judge to Ease Bail Travel Curbs
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-18T07:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/ex-bp-engineer-seeks-to-ease-bail-travel-restrictions-in-u-s-.html
A former  BP Plc (BP/)  engineer charged with
destroying evidence sought for a U.S probe of the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico oil spill asked a U.S. judge to ease travel restrictions
imposed on him as a condition of bail.  Kurt Mix, charged with two counts of obstruction of justice
for allegedly deleting text message strings from his mobile
phone after being told by BP not to delete any information, was
prohibited from traveling outside Texas,  Louisiana ,
Massachusetts and  New York , without a judge’s permission.  In the first criminal case arising from the spill, the U.S.
had sought to restrict Mix’s travel, saying he shouldn’t have
the “ability to just roam the  United States ” because he posed
a serious flight risk. Prosecutors cited that Mix has a wife who
is a Chinese national with family in  China  and had indicated he
intended to leave the country, go to Australia, and never
return.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Daniel Knowles agreed to limit Mix’s
travel within the U.S. to the four states, saying the family
ties to China, possession of a passport, extensive foreign
travel and access to substantial assets “made me a little
concerned,” according to the court filing.  ‘Did Not Explain’  “Magistrate Judge Knowles did not explain how any of the
facts he found regarding defendant Mix’s international ties
could possibly justify the domestic travel restrictions,” Mix’s
lawyers wrote. The judge also overlooked the fact Mix had
surrendered his passport to the government, the lawyers wrote.  The U.S.  Justice Department , which began investigating the
incident in June 2010 after a fatal explosion ripped through the
well and caused the largest offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history,
said in April it was continuing to consider whether to file more
criminal charges over the spill. The charges against Mix are
likely to be followed by others, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said last month.  BP agreed in March to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and spill and cleanup-related injuries. The
settlement establishes two separate classes, one for economic
loss and the other for physical injuries related to the spill or
the cleanup.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  is set to decide in
November whether to give final approval to the accord. Barbier
has set a Jan. 14, 2013 trial to decide liability for the spill.  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and started millions of barrels of crude
leaking into the Gulf. The accident prompted hundreds of
lawsuits against BP; Transocean Ltd., the Vernier, Switzerland-
based owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services.  The case is U.S. v. Mix, 12-cr-00171, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  -- With assistance from Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit.
Editors: Suresh Seshadri  Subramaniam Sharma  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  