-- MF Global $1 Billion Vanished Into Brokerage, Court Told
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-05-18T20:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/mf-global-1-billion-vanished-into-brokerage-court-told.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  still can’t
trace where some of the money went when its brokerage collapsed,
including $1 billion that “vanished” into the brokerage unit
MF Global Inc., an attorney told a  bankruptcy court .  Brett Miller , a lawyer for MF Global Holdings’ Chapter 11
estate, told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan 
today that court papers detailing the assets and debts of five
of its six bankrupt units are likely to be filed today. Details
on the sixth, MF Global USA, which filed for bankruptcy in
March, will take about another week, he added.  A report is due June 4 from Chapter 11 trustee  Louis Freeh 
on the results of a probe into how the brokerage failed last
October. Miller said key information is still unknown.  “Whereas we can trace certain moneys, the shocking amount
of money funneled from Holdings to Inc.” in the months before
its bankruptcy left “no trail,” Miller said.  Separately, a trustee for failed brokerage MF Global Inc.
said  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  has returned $168 million in cash and
discussions with the bank are continuing regarding his other
claims.  As MF Global Holdings unwinds in bankruptcy to repay
creditors such as JPMorgan, its former operating unit, MF Global
Inc., is liquidating under the Securities Investor Protection
Act to repay customers who are estimated to be out $1.6 billion.  Separate Trustees  The holding company and brokerage each has its own trustee,
and the two have disagreed on whether certain assets belong to
customers or creditors. The SIPA trustee is James Giddens.  The $168 million is the proceeds of excess collateral that
JPMorgan held at the beginning of MF Global Inc.’s liquidation,
Giddens said in a statement today. The bank has kept an interest
in the sum, so that if any of its allegedly secured claims
against MF Global become unsecured, it can make a claim to
recover the $168 million, Giddens said.  JPMorgan served as an agent to a $1.2 billion loan to MF
Global Holdings.  “The Trustee believes that this recovery will assist him
in his primary duty of recovering property for the benefit of
MFGI customers,” Giddens said in the statement.  Unpaid Fees  It will become clearer in coming weeks how the company can
meet its obligations to lawyers and other professionals working
on its case, Miller told the judge.  “Some people have started to joke that they’re working for
both F-r-e-e-h and f-r-e-e,” the lawyer said.  The  law firm  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP on May 11 filed a request
for $4 million for its work over six months representing the
creditors’ committee. The collapsed law firm said it knows the
estate doesn’t have enough money to pay all professionals.  The company’s total unpaid professional fees so far are
$24.8 million, including $7 million for professionals working
with the creditors’ committee, and $11.1 million for Freeh and
his staff. Another $6.7 million is related to professional fees
incurred before Freeh was appointed, according to an operating
report for April.  The case is “unique in that there is currently
insufficient cash available in the debtors’ estates to
compensate professionals, there is no guaranty there will ever
be cash available to compensate professionals, and there is no
clear timeline before it becomes apparent whether there will be
cash to compensate professionals,” Dewey & LeBoeuf lawyers
wrote.  Asset Liquidation  The law firm agreed to the work at the outset of the case
“knowing it will accrue fees and disbursements aggregating
millions of dollars without knowing when and if it will be
paid.”  Miller said money will come into the estate from the
liquidation of securities positions and other assets, making it
clearer how professionals will be paid.  Dewey, once the 11th-largest law firm, is collecting bills
to pay lenders owed $200 million amid departures of lawyers and
dismissals of nonunion workers.  The firm has lost more than two-thirds of its 300 partners,
according to the American Lawyer, a trade magazine.  Proskauer Rose LLP, which hired Dewey lawyers including
 Martin Bienenstock , a former bankruptcy partner and managing
chairman, has proposed itself as new counsel to the MF Global
Holdings creditors committee.  June 18 Deadline  Separately, Glenn gave MF Global Holdings until June 18 to
detail the assets and debts of its remaining unit. Miller told
Glenn that coordinating with the company’s U.K. affiliate and
the trustee for the brokerage has caused delays. In April, Freeh
said creditors had identified 13 potential items of value
including $875 million that it gave to the brokerage, and $717
million moved to eight institutions in October. Giddens had
disputed the report and called its representations
“incorrect.”  So far, Giddens has set in motion refunds to customers that
will bring them to about 80 percent of what they’re owed.  MF Global Holdings Inc., once run by former New Jersey
Governor and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Co-Chairman  Jon Corzine ,
filed for bankruptcy in October listing about $39.7 billion in
debt and $41 billion in assets. According to its operating
report for April, the company used $673,596 of its $19.4 million
in cash collateral.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  