-- Facebook $16 Billion IPO Seem Fueling Strategic Deals
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-18T21:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/facebook-16-billion-ipo-seen-as-fuel-for-strategic-deals-tech.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public
offering will give Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg 
access to more than $15 billion that may step up the pace and
size of acquisitions after a $1 billion deal for Instagram.  Facebook, whose deal efforts are being driven by Amin
Zoufonoun, raised $6.84 billion in the IPO yesterday, adding to
a $5 billion credit line set up earlier this year and $3.91
billion in cash holdings. The public market makes shares of the
social network easier to use as currency for acquisitions after
years of being exchanged on thinly traded private markets.  “I see them making acquisitions across the spectrum, big
and small -- and they should be,” said Maha Ibrahim, a partner
at venture capital firm  Canaan Partners  in  Menlo Park ,
 California . “They have the heft, and now they just need to
monetize even better than they’re doing.”  Facebook, whose shares began trading today, could use
acquisitions to bulk up its business in areas such as mobile,
advertising, payments and video-sharing. While Zuckerberg has
pursued mostly small takeovers in the past, the Instagram deal
demonstrated that the company is willing to make larger
purchases of established companies, said Brian Wieser, an
analyst at Pivotal Research Group LLC in  New York .  “I expect we will continue to be surprised by the scale of
some of these acquisitions,” Wieser said. “I previously did
not expect much in the way of meaningful acquisitions.”  Karma Deal  Facebook said today it will acquire  Karma Science Inc. ,
which makes a mobile application for gift shopping. The San
Francisco-based startup has applied for three patents, covering
areas including commerce and notifications, said Amy Swanson, a
spokeswoman for Karma. Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.  Zoufonoun, Facebook’s director of corporate development,
reports to Vice President  Vaughan Smith . Zoufonoun was at Google
Inc. for about eight years before arriving at Menlo Park-based
Facebook last year. The company is expanding its team working on
deals, with at least three open positions in business
development, according to Facebook’s  website .  Even before the IPO, the company’s coffers were growing.
Facebook amassed $3.91 billion in cash and short-term
investments on its  balance sheet  through the end of the first
quarter, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. In March, Facebook said investment banks,
including Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co., arranged an
$8 billion financing package, including a $5 billion  credit line 
to be used for working capital and other general corporate
purposes, and a $3 billion bridge loan to fund taxes for
employees who exercise restricted stock units.  IPO Proceeds  In the wake of the IPO, Facebook has said it will need to
spend an estimated $4.4 billion to cover such taxes. The units
can’t be sold until about five months after the IPO.  Including shares sold by investors, the total IPO proceeds
were $16 billion.  For now, Zoufonoun can put the IPO windfall to work and
help Facebook intensify its challenge to rivals such as Google,
according to Sameet Sinha, an analyst at B. Riley & Co.  There are a lot of other cash-rich tech companies vying for
deals.  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. has  $59.5 billion  in cash and short-term
investments. Apple Inc.’s war chest has swollen to $110.2
billion -- though it hasn’t been an active acquirer. More
likely, Facebook will go up against Google, which had  $49.3
billion  in cash and short-term securities at the end of March.  “They need to compete against Google’s treasure chest,”
Sinha said. “You’re fighting with so many big players in so
many big industries.”  ValueClick, Payvment  Acquiring online advertising companies could fill a need at
Facebook, especially for extending ads outside of the site,
Sinha said. If the company were seeking to bolster that effort,
ValueClick Inc. or one of Microsoft’s ad-technology businesses
could be a target, Sinha said. To shore up e-commerce offerings,
Facebook could buy a shopping startup, such as social-buying
service  Payvment Inc. , or an online-payment provider, he said.  Building on the Instagram deal, Facebook may go after a
social-video sharing service like Viddy Inc. or Socialcam Inc.,
said  Arvind Bhatia , an analyst at  Sterne Agee  & Leach Inc. And
while there are plenty of targets in the U.S., buying or
investing in a China-based technology company would help
Facebook finally make its way into the country, he said.  Media companies, including music providers, may also be on
Facebook’s wish list, Pivotal’s Wieser said. Potential targets
may include Spotify Ltd., which already uses the Facebook
platform to reach users, and online radio pioneer  Pandora Media
Inc. (P) , which had a market value of $1.74 billion yesterday.  ‘No Shopping Spree’  Still, it’s unlikely Facebook will just build up a
portfolio of content companies, said Rebecca Lieb, a  digital-
media analyst  at Altimeter Group in New York. The social network
will probably continue to let such providers run on its platform
while remaining independent, she said.  “The IPO will not be the moment when Facebook gets daddy’s
credit card and goes on a shopping spree,” Lieb said. “Their
purchases will be judicious, especially for a company that has
not made a ton of acquisitions in the past.” She said data-
management software may be an attractive industry as Facebook
seeks to handle the information streaming in from its more than
900 million users.  Jonathan Thaw, spokesman for Facebook, declined to comment,
as did representatives of Microsoft, ValueClick, Payvment, Viddy
and Spotify. An e-mail sent to Socialcam CEO Michael Seibel
wasn’t returned.  Patent Cache  Beyond targeting companies for acquisitions, Facebook is
also spending on bolstering its cache of intellectual property.
In April, Facebook said it would pay $550 million to buy about
650 patents and applications from AOL Inc., as well as a license
to AOL patents and applications that Microsoft will purchase and
own.  To accommodate its swelling user base and the reams of data
members upload to its site daily, Facebook plans to spend
billions of dollars over the next five years to boost its
capacity and build data centers. In a  filing , Facebook said
 capital expenditures  will be $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion this
year. The company’s capital spending may rise to $2.2 billion in
2017, Pivotal’s Wieser wrote in a May 4 research note.  “The company needs one new major data center each per year
beyond those currently committed in  Oregon ,  North Carolina  and
 Sweden ,” Wieser wrote. Facebook may want to build centers in
China or  Australia , said  Virginia Agee , a research director at
IDC.  Glancee, FriendFeed  Facebook has made more than 30  purchases  or talent
acquisitions -- deals made mainly to gain a company’s engineers
or staff. One of the most recent was Glancee, a startup that
helps users make new friends based on their locations. The 2009
acquisition of social-media aggregator FriendFeed brought over
Bret Taylor, who later became Facebook’s chief technology
officer.  “As part of our business strategy, we have made and intend
to make acquisitions to add specialized employees, complementary
companies, products, or technologies,” Facebook said in its IPO
filing.  Still, at the time of the Instagram announcement,
Zuckerberg cautioned against reading too much into the size of
the purchase, which is set to close later this year.  “It’s the first time we’ve ever acquired a product and
company with so many users,” he said in an online  post  in
April. “We don’t plan on doing many more of these, if any at
all.”  With the addition of cash from the IPO and the ability to
issue shares for an acquisition, Sterne Agee’s Bhatia said he
expects Facebook to move quickly with an acquisition in cases
where it would take too long to catch up on its own.  “If it’s going to take them some time to develop something
that’s becoming popular, they will try to bring that in-house,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  