-- Facebook Tells Staff to Keep Focus Amid Market Debut
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-05-18T21:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/facebook-tells-staff-to-keep-focus-amid-delayed-market-debut.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Zuckerberg  sent a message to newly wealthy employees of the
largest social-networking service on the day of its delayed
stock-market debut: “Stay focused” and “keep hacking.”  The words were emblazoned on T-shirts handed out during a
gathering of more than 2,000 people at the company’s Menlo Park,
 California , headquarters, according to a person who attended and
asked not to be identified because the event was private. They
were there to watch Zuckerberg mark the opening of trading on
the Nasdaq Stock Market -- an event set back after  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ)  failed to deliver trade-execution messages.  “Right now, this all seems like a big deal. Going public
is an important milestone in our history,” Zuckerberg, who was
wearing his trademark hoodie and flanked by Chief Operating
Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  and Nasdaq CEO  Robert Greifeld , told
attendees. “But here’s the thing: Our mission isn’t to be a
public company. Our mission is to make the world more open and
connected.”  Facebook employees, including Zuckerberg himself, had only
recently emerged from a “hackathon,” which drew together
programmers working all night crafting code that might become
the foundation for a new Facebook feature or application.  Pizza, Beer  Throughout the night, staffers drank keg beer and ate pizza
and chicken wings while building new apps, a person familiar
with the festivities said. One group organized an impromptu foot
race to  In-N-Out Burger , a fast-food chain more than six miles
away, while others lined up to wait for a campus coffee shop to
hold its grand opening at 5 a.m.  By morning, television camera crews filled the parking lot
outside while three news helicopters buzzed overhead. Zuckerberg
was introduced to a throng of workers by Greifeld, who presented
him with a Nasdaq-branded hooded sweatshirt.  “It’s sort of the changing of the guard,” Dan Rosensweig,
the CEO of online book rental startup Chegg Inc., told a group
of reporters who had gathered outside the Facebook headquarters.
Rosensweig, the former chief operating officer at Yahoo! Inc.,
was involved in the Web portal’s negotiations to acquire
Facebook for $1 billion in 2006.  “The best thing I’ve done is change the world by not
getting the deal closed,” Rosensweig said of Yahoo’s failed
bid.  Others visiting the Facebook offices included  Donald Graham , the chairman and CEO of Washington Post Co., who has
served as a mentor to Zuckerberg and a member of the social
network’s board; David Sze, a partner at Facebook backer
 Greylock Partners , and Kirsten Keith, mayor of  Menlo Park .  ‘New Money’  “Any time when you have new money, as we’ve seen with
other companies here in Silicon Valley, it helps the economy,”
Keith said in an interview. “And hopefully, we have great
people who are becoming millionaires that want to give back to
the community.”  Facebook shares hovered near the initial public offering
price in its trading debut, following a record IPO that made the
social network more costly than almost every company in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   The shares rose 23 cents above the IPO price of $38 as of 4
p.m. in  New York . Facebook sold 421.2 million shares to raise
$16 billion yesterday, giving the company a $104.2 billion
market value.  By mid-morning, dozens of employees were leaving the
headquarters in cars and shuttle buses.  Jasper Hauser , a graphic
designer at the company, summarized his thoughts in a post on
Twitter Inc.  “I want sleeeeppphgzzzzzz,” Hauser tweeted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ; 