-- Facebook’s IPO Finra Test, TARP, Bank Reports: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-18T12:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/facebook-s-ipo-finra-test-tarp-sale-bank-reports-compliance.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public
offering will be the biggest test of a rule introduced in 2011
to protect investors and curb volatility on the first day a
company trades.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  reminded  more
than 4,400 member firms on May 15 that they shouldn’t accept buy
requests known as market orders until trading begins. Such
transactions are authorizations to purchase at the best
available price, as opposed to limit orders that require
investors to specify a minimum or maximum.  Facebook sold shares yesterday in an initial sale that
valued the company at $104.2 billion, the most ever for an IPO.
Finra’s notice about market orders follows malfunctions that
disrupted the debuts of Bats Global Markets Inc. in March and
 Splunk Inc. (SPLK)  in April, and came as Facebook’s listing venue,
Nasdaq Stock Market, conducted tests of its computers and
customers’ systems before the IPO auction.  The Finra rule follows curbs and new trading requirements
implemented by exchanges and regulators after the so-called
flash crash on May 6, 2010, when the Dow Jones Industrial
Average plunged 9.2 percent before recovering. In addition to
introducing circuit breakers, which pause trading in stocks and
exchanged-traded funds when prices move 10 percent in five
minutes, market makers must quote within a certain price range.
New rules were also implemented to guide exchanges’ decisions
about when to void errant transactions.  Facebook, which offered 421.2 million shares, may see
trading volume of about 1 billion today, based on first-day
activity at companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ,  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA)  and  Yelp Inc. (YELP) ,  Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of Tabb
Group LLC, said in an e-mail. U.S. equities  traded  a daily
average of 6.77 billion shares this year through May 16,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Finra ban on market orders before trading begins was
instituted because shares are more volatile when there’s no
“established public trading history,” the organization said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Safer Banks to Add $19 Billion to U.K. Economy, Economists Say  A banking system strengthened by tougher capital rules will
benefit the U.K. economy by 11.9 billion pounds
($18.9 billion) a year, according to a paper published by the
U.K.  Financial Services Authority .  Regulators could raise minimum capital requirements for the
biggest banks by “an additional 22 percentage points” and
“still produce overall positive net benefits in the long run,”
five academics said in their report to the financial regulator
published yesterday.  Banks May Need $566 Billion to Plug Capital Gap, Fitch Says  The world’s biggest banks may have to raise about
$566 billion of common equity to meet rules on capital to be
implemented by 2019, curtailing shareholder returns, according
to analysts at Fitch Ratings.  The sum needed by the 29 global banks that regulators deem
too big to fail is equivalent to about 23 percent of the
lenders’ current $2.5 trillion of aggregate common equity,
according to a report by analysts led by Martin Hansen in  New
York . The median lender could meet the requirements with three
years of retained earnings, according to Fitch.  International banking regulators  meeting under the aegis of
the  Bank for International Settlements  in Basel are seeking to
implement rules to prevent taxpayers from being forced to rescue
failing banks. As well as boosting capital requirements, they
are instituting rules on leverage ratios and funding to ensure
lenders can withstand future crises.  The banks named as global systemically important financial
institutions, which have to hold a special capital surcharge of
between 1 percent and 2.5 percent of assets weighted by risk,
include  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the four largest U.K. banks,  Bank of
America Corp.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   They are likely to reduce their holdings of more volatile,
lower-rated assets, potentially increasing borrowing costs of
weaker companies and reducing availability of credit to them,
according to the report. Securities of such borrowers would
become harder to trade and companies may be forced to borrow
from less regulated lenders such as private equity firms and
hedge funds, according to the Fitch report, called “Basel III:
Return and Deleveraging Pressures.”  Intercontinental Says SEC Failing to Act on Swap Clearing  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , owner of the world’s
largest credit-default swap clearinghouse, will petition the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to allow asset managers
to clear trades in the $26.5 trillion market.  Peter Barsoom, chief operating officer of ICE Clear Credit,
Intercontinental’s U.S.-based credit swap clearinghouse said the
SEC’s “failure to act” has disadvantaged the buy-side and
investors relative to the dealers. He anticipates a petition in
the next few days “with the buy-side” to submit to the SEC to
approve rules needed for so-called client clearing.  Barsoom made the remarks yesterday at a Futures Industry
Association conference in New York.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has authority over credit
swaps on individual companies, while the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission will oversee credit-swap indexes.
 Intercontinental Exchange  asked the regulators last year to work
together to allow investors who use both types of swaps to
combine their trades to reduce margin requirements, known as
portfolio margining, Barsoom said.  Asset managers and hedge funds aren’t yet required to clear
trades under Dodd-Frank, with the mandate expected to be in
place by next year.  Judith Burns, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to
comment.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Treasury Weighs Selling TARP Bank Shares in Pools to Draw Buyers  The U.S. Treasury may pool stakes in small banks bailed out
during the financial crisis to entice potential investors as the
Obama administration winds down the Troubled Asset Relief
Program.  The  Treasury’s plan  reflects the challenge of unwinding
holdings in lenders that are still trying to recover from the
six-year residential real estate slump. By combining stakes of
small banks, the department may be able to attract investors who
wouldn’t want to buy shares of those banks individually.  Most of the 343 bailed-out banks still in TARP will be
unable to repay $12 billion in taxpayer funds they hold,
according to the Treasury. The administration will first try to
sell its stakes in the remaining lenders through auctions, and
if it can’t, will then pool together shares of different
institutions, Tim Massad, the Treasury Department’s assistant
secretary for financial stability, said in an interview.  As of April 30, the Treasury’s biggest remaining bank
investments were $968 million in Columbus, Georgia-based  Synovus
Financial Corp. (SNV) ; $935 million in  Popular Inc. (BPOP) , Puerto Rico’s
largest lender; and a $700 million stake in Salt Lake City-based
 Zions Bancorporation. (ZION)   Under TARP, originally approved by Congress in 2008 as a
$700 billion dollar program to rescue financial institutions,
the Treasury put cash into banks in exchange for equity stakes.  For more, click here.  SMBC Nikko to Cut President Watanabe’s Pay 15% After Rule Breach  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. President Eiji Watanabe’s pay
will be cut for three months after he breached securities rules,
according to an e-mailed statement.  The statement was issued by the brokerage unit of  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)   Four other executives at the brokerage will receive pay
reductions ranging from 5 percent to 50 percent for three
months, according to the statement. The pay cuts follow the
business improvement order from Japan’s Financial Services
Agency after SMBC Nikko’s rule breach.  Lloyds Still Seeking Assurances From NBNK of Regulatory Approval  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  Chairman  Win Bischoff  said that
the bank has yet to receive assurances from  NBNK Investments Plc (NBNK) 
that it would be approved by the Financial Services Authority if
it were chosen as the bidder for the 632 branches the lender is
selling.  Separately, Bischoff said that if  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
which has such a good risk culture, could suffer such large
trading losses, then it could happen to any other bank.  SEC Said to Hold Closed Meetings to Review JPMorgan Losses  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission held at least
two special meetings in the past week to review the
circumstances surrounding JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $2 billion
loss, according to people familiar with the matter.  The SEC held a closed meeting on Saturday, May 12, and
another three days later to discuss “an examination of a
financial institution,” according to a news release e-mailed
May 15. The agency’s five commissioners held the meetings to
find out what staff knew about the losses and to discuss how the
agency should respond, said two people who declined to be
identified because the discussions weren’t public.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said May 10
that the bank made “egregious” mistakes and that the losses of
about $2 billion tied to synthetic credit securities were
“self-inflicted.” The announcement has spurred reviews by
several financial regulators, including the SEC, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency and criminal authorities in New York.  Courts  Citigroup Sued by Woori Bank of South Korea Over CDO Losses  Citigroup Inc. (C)  was sued for fraud by  Woori Bank  of South
Korea to recover losses from the Seoul-based lender’s investment
in collateralized debt obligations.  Woori claims Citigroup led it to invest $95 million during
2006 and 2007 in a series of fraudulent CDOs and related
products. The complaint was filed May 15 in federal court in New
York.  “Citigroup believes the allegations made in the suit are
entirely without merit,” James Griffiths, a Hong Kong-based
spokesman for New York-based Citigroup, said by phone. The bank
will fight the complaint, he said.  Woori Bank is a unit of  Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000) , South
Korea’s largest financial company by assets.  The case is Woori Bank v Citigroup Inc., 12-CV-3868, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Gulf Keystone Gets Injunction on Web Posts That Moved Shares  Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. (GKP)  got an injunction blocking a
man from writing about the company after his comments on
Internet message boards and Twitter caused its shares to fall.  Spencer Freeman’s posts about a deal with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and a potential share sale were “fantasy,” according to court
documents. The result was that Gulf Keystone’s “share price
collapsed” and it had to spend time “dealing with disgruntled
investors and press inquiries,” the company’s lawyers said.  Freeman agreed to a court order not to write false or
derogatory posts and, as a result, Gulf Keystone will drop its
May 11 lawsuit against him for defamation and malicious
falsehood, the company’s lawyer Matthew Nicklin said at a
hearing in London yesterday.  The company, which has wells in northern Iraq, said in a
May 10 statement it would take legal action to prevent
“unfounded speculation” on websites and social-media sites
about the possibility it would raise money by selling equity at
160 pence a share.  An account on Twitter Inc.’s micro-blogging service in the
name of Spencer Freeman has been deactivated.  Christopher Hamilton , a spokesman for the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, said the regulator was aware of Spencer
Freeman’s comments. He declined to comment further.  The case is: Gulf Keystone Petroleum Limited v. Freeman,
High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, HQ12D01817.  Facebook Sued for $15 Billion in Suit Over User Tracking  Facebook Inc., which is scheduled to begin trading today,
was sued by users of its social network in an amended class-
action case claiming the company invaded their privacy by
tracking Internet usage and seeking $15 billion.  The lawsuit, filed in federal court in San Jose,
California, combines 21 cases filed across the U.S., according
to a statement by Stewarts Law US LLP, one of the firms leading
the claim. It accuses Facebook of improperly tracking users even
after they logged out of their accounts.  Facebook, which sold stock in an initial public offering
valuing the company at about $104 billion, has been scrutinized
by regulators in the U.S. and Europe over how it protects users’
private data. Last year, a German data-protection agency said it
may fine the company over facial-recognition software used for
tagging photos.  Iain Mackenzie, a London-based spokesman for Facebook,
declined to comment.  Lawsuits accusing the Menlo Park, California-based company
of tracking user data even when they were logged out have been
filed across the U.S. A California judicial panel ordered in
February they be consolidated and heard in the company’s home
state.  The case is In re Facebook Internet Tracking Litigation,
12-md-02314, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California (San Jose).  Interviews/Hearings  JPMorgan’s Dimon Agrees to Testify in Senate After Trading Loss  Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase & Co. ‘s chief executive
officer, agreed to testify in front of a Senate committee on the
bank’s $2 billion trading loss.  “As always, we will continue to be open and transparent
with our regulators and Congress,” said Jennifer Zuccarelli , a
spokeswoman for the New York-based lender.  Dimon was asked to testify after the  Senate Banking
Committee  concludes hearings on banking industry reform in June,
according to a statement from committee Chairman Tim Johnson.  Bullard Says Largest U.S. Banks Should Be Broken Up  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
spoke in Louisville, Kentucky, about regulation of the U.S.
financial industry.  Bullard, asked about JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $2 billion
trading loss, said large banks should be broken up into smaller
businesses that can be more easily managed. Bullard also
discussed the U.S. economy and central bank monetary policy.  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC Names James Burns Deputy Director of Trading and Markets  James Burns will become deputy director of U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission’s office that oversees markets, trading
practices and derivatives policy, the agency said in a statement
on its website.  Burns has been a member of SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro ’s
staff since March 2010. Most recently, he served as deputy chief
of staff for Schapiro. Burns will be replaced by Erica Williams,
who has worked on enforcement and regulatory issues at the SEC.  SEC Said to Ask FDIC’s Rymer to Take Over Troubled Watchdog Unit  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. inspector general Jon Rymer
is in final discussions to temporarily take over the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s internal watchdog office as it
grapples with allegations of possible misconduct by its own
employees, according to people with knowledge of the talks.  Rymer would take over the post on an interim basis as the
SEC looks to fill the inspector general job that was left vacant
when H. David Kotz stepped down in January, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the decision hasn’t been made
public. The move isn’t yet final, the people said.  The office has been in turmoil since David Weber, an
employee of the internal watchdog unit, complained to the SEC
that possible conflicts of interest related to Kotz’s past
conduct could have tainted the integrity of his reports on the
agency’s failure to catch the Bernard Madoff and R. Allen
Stanford frauds. The agency said it is hiring an independent
investigator to review the claims.  Weber was later placed on administrative leave after some
of his co-workers made complaints.  Noelle Maloney, the deputy inspector general, has been the
acting head of the unit since Kotz’s departure.  Fred Gibson, the FDIC’s deputy inspector general, said
Rymer wasn’t immediately available for comment. SEC spokesman
 John Nester  declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  