-- Facebook Set for Public Debut After IPO Seals $104 Billion Value
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-05-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/facebook-set-for-public-debut-after-ipo-seals-104-billion-value.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is set to start trading
today after a record initial public offering that made the
social network more costly than almost every company in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Facebook sold 421.2 million shares at $38 each to raise $16
billion, a statement yesterday shows. That values the  Menlo
Park , California-based company at $104.2 billion, or 107 times
trailing 12-month earnings, more than every  S&P 500  member
except Amazon.com Inc. and Equity Residential.  That valuation also makes Facebook, co-founded in 2004 by a
then-teenage  Mark Zuckerberg , the largest company to go public
in the U.S. Now the 28-year-old billionaire has to reward
investors by squeezing more profit out of advertising, said  Erik Gordon , a professor at the  University of Michigan ’s Ross School
of Business.  “It shows tremendous confidence in the guy wearing the
hoodie,” said Gordon, referring to Zuckerberg and the signature
sweatshirt he wore during meetings to market the stock. “He
hasn’t specified how he’s going to do it, but he’ll have to do
it to justify this price.”  In less than a decade, Zuckerberg has overseen Facebook’s
evolution from a Harvard University dorm-room project into a
social network with more than 900 million users. Still, revenue
growth is poised to slow for a third straight year and
advertising sales haven’t kept pace with user additions.  26 Times Sales  Facebook, which priced at the top end of its range of $34
to $38 a share, is making its public debut at a valuation of
about 26 times sales in the 12 months through March 31. That’s
more than twice as much as AvalonBay Communities Inc., currently
the most costly company by that measure in the S&P 500.  “It seems like a very full valuation, but I’m sure there
was an almost insatiable amount of retail interest in Facebook
and that’s how the bankers looked at it,” said  Dan Veru , chief
investment officer at Palisade Capital Management in  Fort Lee ,
 New Jersey . “Everyone wants a piece of Facebook.”  At $16 billion, Facebook’s debut surpasses that of General
Motors Co., making it the second-largest in U.S. history,
excluding so-called over-allotments, which let underwriters buy
more shares at a later date, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bigger Than GM  GM raised $15.8 billion in November 2010, before expanding
the sale to $18.1 billion when underwriters exercised the over-
allotment option. Visa Inc. raised $17.9 billion in its 2008
IPO, the biggest in the U.S., and later expanded the sale to
$19.7 billion.  Facebook’s offering price gives it a market capitalization
almost double the $60 billion United Parcel Service Inc.,
previously the biggest company to complete an IPO, was valued at
when it went public in 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Dealogic.  Facebook stock is scheduled to start trading today at 11
a.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, under the symbol
FB. The bankers, led by Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., may split about $176 million for
managing the IPO after accepting a lower-than-average fee for
their work. They’ll get about 1.1 percent of what Facebook
raised, said two people with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be identified because the rate is private.  The price gives Facebook a market value about half the size
of Google Inc., which is worth more than $200 billion. The
search-engine operator’s value has jumped almost ninefold in the
eight years since it went public. To hand its public owners the
same returns after pricing at the top of its offering range,
 Facebook  would have to be worth about $920 billion by 2020.
Apple Inc., the most valuable company in the world, has a market
value of about $496 billion.  Google Comparison  The offering eclipses the 2004 IPO of Google, one of
Facebook’s chief competitors for online advertising. Google
raised $1.9 billion in its initial share sale, including an
over-allotment option. The shares sold at $85 apiece, giving
Google a market value of about $23 billion, or about 10 times
sales in the 12 months through June 30, 2004.  Facebook boosted the deal’s size amid a two-week series of
meetings where Chief Executive Officer Zuckerberg, Chief
Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg and Chief Financial Officer
David Ebersman pitched the sale to investors across the U.S.  “There’s hundreds of millions of people that want to
emotionally buy this stock and most of them are going to have to
buy it in the aftermarket,” said Jon Merriman, chief executive
officer at investment firm Merriman Holdings Inc. in  San
Francisco . “I’d like to see it season over a couple of
months.”  Retail Investors  Facebook allocated about 15 percent of the shares to retail
investors, according to two people familiar with the matter.
That compares with the 15 percent to 20 percent that retail
investors typically receive in U.S. IPOs, according to  Jay
Ritter , a finance professor at the University of  Florida  in
Gainesville.  Venture capital firm  Accel Partners , based in  Palo Alto ,
 California , planned to offer 49 million shares in the initial
sale, while Goldman Sachs aimed to sell 28.7 million, according
to terms Facebook disclosed this week. Digital Sky Technologies
planned to sell 45.7 million shares, and Tiger Global Management
planned to sell 23.4 million shares. Facebook executives and
directors planned to sell 189.4 million shares.  Some institutional investors had balked at buying into
Facebook over concern about the site’s growth prospects, people
with knowledge of the matter said last week. The social network
generated sales of $3.7 billion last year, which are poised to
rise 64 percent to $6.1 billion in 2012, according to researcher
EMarketer Inc. Last month, Facebook said first-quarter profit
fell to $205 million as sales growth slowed and marketing costs
more than doubled.  More Mobile  Facebook is trying to adapt as more users access its site
via mobile phones instead of the Web. That put pressure on
company executives to articulate their mobile strategy as they
marketed the stock to potential investors ahead of the IPO.
Facebook has said it would add mobile advertising along with new
ads to reach users when they log off the company’s website.  Facebook still faces hurdles in traditional Web
advertising. General Motors, the world’s biggest automaker by
vehicles sold, said this week it was halting display ads on
Facebook, while maintaining brand-promotion pages.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  