-- Facebook Shares Jumped 13-Fold in Private Trading Before IPO
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-05-18T14:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/facebook-s-value-jumped-13-fold-in-private-trading-before-ipo.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s value jumped 13-fold
in private trading in the four years before its initial public
offering yesterday, outperforming  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google Inc.,
based on data from SecondMarket Inc.  Trading starting in April 2008 valued the company at $8.1
billion, SecondMarket said today in a statement. That value
surged to $106.8 billion as of April 5, the day that the
private-stock marketplace stopped holding auctions. In the same
period, Google gained 36 percent and Apple more than quadrupled.  Facebook’s IPO pricing gives the social-network website
market value of $104.2 billion, making it the largest company to
go public in the U.S. by market capitalization. The trading and
valuation in the private market started to accelerate in late
2010 and early 2011, after SecondMarket began weekly auctions of
the stock. About 86 percent of sellers were  former employees ,
while 85 percent of buyers were institutional investors such as
asset managers or  hedge funds .  “The runup really started when it became much more clear
that they were going to do an IPO and soon,” said Espen Robak,
president of New York-based Pluris Valuation Advisors LLC, in an
interview.  The $38 offering price today for 421.2 million shares gives
 Menlo Park , California-based Facebook a smaller market value
than on April 5 in the private market. At that price, Facebook
is about half the size of  Mountain View , California-based
Google. The world’s largest search engine has a market
capitalization of more than $200 billion.  “The IPO price is definitely a low number compared to what
everyone has been playing with in the private market,” Robak
said.  Investors in the private market were able to capture
returns before the company went public, said Boyd Steinhoff,
vice president at SecondMarket in  New York .  “What this private market has become in the last years is
really a reinvention of what the IPO market used to be for
small-cap companies,” Steinhoff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  