-- Facebook Suit Over Subscriber Tracking Seeks $15 Billion
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/facebook-sued-for-15-billion-in-suit-over-user-tracking.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the social network
operator whose shares began trading yesterday, was sued for $15
billion in an amended complaint by subscribers who claim the
company invaded their privacy by tracking their Internet use.  In the complaint filed May 17 in federal court in San Jose,
 California , the plaintiffs say  Facebook  improperly tracked users
even after they logged out. Twenty-one cases making similar
claims have been consolidated before the court. The latest
filing seeks to proceed on behalf of U.S. residents who
subscribed to Facebook from May 2010 to September 2011.  Facebook, which sold stock in an initial public offering
valuing the company at about $104 billion, has been scrutinized
by regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  over how it protects users’
private information. Last year, a German data-protection agency
said it may fine the  Menlo Park , California-based company over
facial-recognition software used for tagging photos.  “This is not just a damages action, but a groundbreaking
digital-privacy rights case that could have wide and significant
legal and business implications,” David Straite, a partner at
Stewarts Law, which represents some of the users, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Andrew Noyes, a Facebook spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement that the claims are without merit and the company will
contest them.  Non-U.S. Residents  Straite said his firm is evaluating ways to add non-U.S.
residents to the group of plaintiffs.  The U.S. Wiretap Act “provides statutory damages of the
greater of $100 per violation per day, up to $10,000, per
Facebook user,” according to the complaint. Facebook’s more
than 800 million members are entitled to about $15 billion in
total, according to the plaintiffs.  Facebook sold 421.2 million shares at $38 each to raise $16
billion, it said in a statement. That values the company at
$104.2 billion, or 107 times trailing 12-month earnings, more
than every S&P 500 member except Amazon.com Inc. and  Equity
Residential. (EQR)   The  shares  rose 23 cents above the IPO price of $38
yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The case is In re: Facebook Internet Tracking Litigation,
5:12-md-02314-EJD, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  