-- Facebook Gains in Public Debut After Record $16 Billion IPO
-- B y   J u l i e   A l n w i c k
-- 2012-05-18T15:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/facebook-gains-in-public-debut-after-record-16-billion-ipo.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  gained as much as 18
percent in its trading debut, following a record initial public
offering that made the social network more costly than almost
every company in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   The shares advanced 11 percent to $42.18 at 11:30 a.m. in
New York, after earlier surging as high as $45, giving it a
market value of $123.4 billion. Facebook sold 421.2 million
shares at $38 each to raise $16 billion yesterday. The IPO price
valued the company at 107 times trailing 12-month earnings, more
than every  S&P 500  member except Amazon.com Inc. and Equity
Residential.  That valuation also made Facebook, co-founded in 2004 by a
then-teenage  Mark Zuckerberg , the largest company to go public
in the U.S. Now the 28-year-old billionaire has to reward
investors by squeezing more profit out of advertising, said  Erik Gordon , a professor at the University of Michigan’s Ross School
of Business.  “It shows tremendous confidence in the guy wearing the
hoodie,” said Gordon, referring to Zuckerberg and the signature
sweatshirt he wore during meetings to market the stock. “He
hasn’t specified how he’s going to do it, but he’ll have to do
it to justify this price.”  In less than a decade, Zuckerberg has overseen  Menlo Park ,
 California-based Facebook ’s evolution from a Harvard University
dorm-room project into a social network with more than 900
million users. Still,  revenue growth  is poised to slow for a
third straight year and advertising sales haven’t kept pace with
user additions.  26 Times Sales  Facebook priced at the top end of its range of $34 to $38 a
share, valuing it at about 26 times sales in the 12 months
through March 31. As of yesterday, that was more than twice as
much as  AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB) , currently the most costly
company by that measure in the S&P 500.  “It seems like a very full valuation, but I’m sure there
was an almost insatiable amount of retail interest in Facebook
and that’s how the bankers looked at it,” said  Dan Veru , chief
investment officer at Palisade Capital Management in  Fort Lee ,
 New Jersey . “Everyone wants a piece of Facebook.”  At $16 billion, Facebook’s sale surpassed that of  General
Motors (GM)  Co., making it the second-largest in U.S. history,
excluding so-called over-allotments, which let underwriters buy
more shares at a later date, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bigger Than GM  GM raised $15.8 billion in November 2010, before expanding
the sale to $18.1 billion when underwriters exercised the over-
allotment option. Visa Inc. raised $17.9 billion in its 2008
IPO, the biggest in the U.S., and later expanded the sale to
$19.7 billion. Facebook’s underwriters may buy an additional
63.2 million shares at the IPO price, which would enlarge the
IPO to as much as $18.4 billion.  Facebook’s offering price gave it a market capitalization
almost double the $60 billion United Parcel Service Inc.,
previously the biggest company to complete an IPO, was valued at
when it went public in 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Dealogic.  Facebook stock is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under
the symbol FB. The social network is the first company to
complete a U.S. IPO in a week, after vacuum-pump maker Edwards
Group Ltd. raised $100 million on May 10.  The 67 companies that completed U.S. IPOs this year before
Facebook gained an average of 7.2 percent in public trading
through yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Before
today, six of the 10 best-performing newly listed U.S. stocks
this year had been Internet or technology companies, led by
Guidewire Software Inc., the provider of software to the
insurance industry that gained 95 percent.  $1 Trillion Lost  Facebook’s IPO coincided with intensifying U.S. market
turmoil. About  $1 trillion  had been erased from American equity
values this month after speculation  Greece  will leave the euro
region reversed the biggest first-quarter rally since 1998,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Facebook’s bankers, led by Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc., may split about $176 million
for managing the IPO after accepting a lower-than-average fee
for their work. Facebook hired more than 30 underwriters, which
also included Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Allen & Co.,
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, and Deutsche Bank AG.  They’ll get about 1.1 percent of what Facebook raised, said
two people with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be
identified because the rate is private.  Google Comparison  The IPO price gave Facebook a market value about half the
size of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which was worth more than $200 billion as
of yesterday. The search-engine operator’s value has jumped
almost ninefold in the eight years since it went public. To hand
its public owners the same returns after pricing at the top of
its offering range, Facebook would have to be worth about $920
billion by 2020. Apple Inc., the most valuable company in the
world, had a market value of about $496 billion as of yesterday.  Facebook’s offering eclipsed the 2004 IPO of Google, one of
its chief competitors for online advertising. Google raised $1.9
billion in its initial share sale, including an over-allotment
option. The shares sold at $85 apiece, giving Google a market
value of about $23 billion, or about 10 times sales in the 12
months through June 30, 2004.  Facebook boosted the deal’s size amid a two-week series of
meetings where Chief Executive Officer Zuckerberg, Chief
Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg and Chief Financial Officer
David Ebersman pitched the sale to investors across the U.S.  Retail Investors  “There’s hundreds of millions of people that want to
emotionally buy this stock and most of them are going to have to
buy it in the aftermarket,” said Jon Merriman, chief executive
officer at investment firm Merriman Holdings Inc. in  San
Francisco . “I’d like to see it season over a couple of
months.”  Facebook allocated about 15 percent of the shares to retail
investors, according to two people familiar with the matter.
That compares with the 15 percent to 20 percent that retail
investors typically receive in U.S. IPOs, according to  Jay Ritter , a finance professor at the University of Florida in
Gainesville.  Venture capital firm Accel Partners, based in  Palo Alto ,
 California , planned to offer 49 million shares in the initial
sale, while Goldman Sachs aimed to sell 28.7 million, according
to terms Facebook disclosed this week. Digital Sky Technologies
planned to sell 45.7 million shares, and Tiger Global Management
planned to sell 23.4 million shares.  Institutional Investors  Facebook executives and directors planned to sell 189.4
million shares. Including restricted stock units, options and
common stock to be issued following the purchase of Instagram,
the shares outstanding would total 2.74 billion.  Some institutional  investors  had balked at buying into
Facebook over concern about the site’s growth prospects, people
with knowledge of the matter said last week. The social network
generated sales of $3.7 billion last year, which are poised to
rise 64 percent to $6.1 billion in 2012, according to researcher
EMarketer Inc. Last month, Facebook said first-quarter  profit 
fell to $205 million as sales growth slowed and marketing costs
more than doubled.  Facebook is trying to adapt as more users access its site
via mobile phones instead of the Web. That put pressure on
company executives to articulate their mobile strategy as they
marketed the stock to potential investors ahead of the IPO.
Facebook has said it would add mobile advertising along with new
ads to reach users when they log off the company’s website.  Facebook still faces hurdles in traditional Web
advertising. General Motors, the world’s biggest automaker by
vehicles sold, said this week it was halting display ads on
Facebook, while maintaining brand-promotion pages.  “It worries me about the pressures that will be on
Facebook to create this new stream of revenue,” John Chachas,
managing partner at Methuselah Capital Advisors LP, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “A lot of what you do on
Facebook is hanging out. That does not lend itself to the
monetization question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Alnwick in  New York  at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  