-- Facebook Underwriters to Split $176 Million in IPO Fees
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-05-18T22:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/facebook-underwriters-to-split-about-176-million-in-ipo-fees.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  bankers led by  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  will split about $176 million for managing the social-
networking company’s initial public offering after accepting a
lower-than-average fee for their work.  The underwriters are collecting about 1.1 percent of the
$16 billion Facebook raised in its IPO yesterday, the company
said in a filing today. The company hired 33 investment banks
for the offering, led by Morgan Stanley,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Facebook, valued at $104.2 billion in the IPO, agreed to
pay less than one-third the 3.6 percent median fee on the 10
largest U.S. initial offerings in history before this one,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. With larger IPOs, banks
are often willing to take a smaller percentage fee and can use
high-profile offerings to help land more IPO mandates later on.  “This is just a once-in-10-years event, so they figure
they’ve got to be attached to it” said  Eric Jackson , founder of
investment firm Ironfire Capital LLC in Naples,  Florida .  Underwriters bought Facebook stock to keep it from falling
below the $38 a share IPO price after its debut, people with
knowledge of the matter said. The bankers supported the shares
after Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. faced difficulties delivering trade
execution messages, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the transactions are private. Jonathan Thaw,
a spokesman for Facebook, declined to comment.  Facebook rose less than 1 percent as of 4 p.m. New York
time to $38.23.  Morgan Stanley Bankers  The biggest share of IPO fees typically goes to the lead
underwriter on the deal. Dan Simkowitz, Morgan Stanley’s
chairman of global  capital markets , was one of the main bankers
on the offering, said a person familiar with the matter. He also
helped run  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s 2010 IPO that raised $18.1
billion.  Michael Grimes , global co-head of technology investment
banking at Morgan Stanley, also played a key role. He introduced
Facebook executives to investors at a lunch meeting last week in
Palo Alto,  California , part of a road show to pitch the deal to
prospective buyers. Grimes became acquainted with Facebook Chief
Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  when he handled the IPO for
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , her former employer. He meets regularly with
investors in search of the next promising startup and is an avid
consumer of his clients’ products.  Sandberg recused herself from picking bankers for
Facebook’s IPO because she had relationships with several banks
from her previous job at Google, one person said.  CFO’s Role  Facebook  Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman was the
point person on the deal, starting with the selection of the
lead bankers, one person said. Sandberg and Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  were involved in major decisions
throughout the process, the person said.  At JPMorgan, Vice Chairman Jimmy Lee, technology bankers
Jennifer Nason and Noah Wintroub, and equity capital markets
bankers Liz Myers and Michael Millman worked on the offering,
said one person.  The Goldman Sachs team working on the deal included
technology bankers George Lee and Scott Stanford, and equity
capital markets bankers David Ludwig and  Andy Fisher , another
person said.  Morgan Stanley handled the sale of 162.2 million, or about
39 percent, of the IPO shares,  Menlo Park , California-based
Facebook said in today’s filing. JPMorgan’s allocation was 84.9
million shares, or 20 percent, and Goldman Sachs got 63.2
million, or 15 percent, the filing shows.  Other banks on the IPO include Bank of America Corp.,
Barclays Plc, Allen & Co., Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group
AG, and Deutsche Bank AG.  JPMorgan Wins  JPMorgan has won the biggest share of IPOs by U.S.
companies so far this year including Facebook’s sale, with 12.2
percent market share, edging out Morgan Stanley’s 12.1 percent,
Bloomberg data show. Morgan Stanley topped the league table in
2011 after working on IPOs by Zynga Inc. and LinkedIn Corp.,
among the year’s biggest Internet debuts in the U.S.  Citigroup is in third place in U.S. IPO underwriting after
Facebook’s IPO, displacing Goldman Sachs, which fell to ninth
below Credit Suisse, Bank of America, Deutsche Bank, Barclays
and Allen.  JPMorgan has earned an estimated $192.8 million in fees for
underwriting IPOs this year including Facebook, compared with
$200.4 million for Morgan Stanley and $177.8 million for
Citigroup, the data show.  Goldman Sachs’s fees from working on the IPO add to the
money it raised by selling part of its own stake in Facebook.
The New York-based bank sold 6.18 million of its 14.2 million
shares, raising $235 million at the $38 IPO price. The bank
still has 8.03 million shares, worth $305 million at that price.  UBS AG, the only firm among the top 10 U.S. IPO
underwriters this year that Facebook didn’t hire for the deal,
currently has a 2 percent market share with estimated fees of
$32.2 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  