-- Facebook Underwriters Said to Split About $176 Million in Fees
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-05-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/facebook-underwriters-said-to-split-about-176-million-in-fees.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  bankers led by  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  may split about $176 million for managing the social-
networking company’s initial public offering after accepting a
lower-than-average fee for their work.  The underwriters are collecting about 1.1 percent of the
$16 billion Facebook raised in its IPO yesterday, said two
people with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be
identified because the rate hasn’t been disclosed. The company
hired 33 investment banks for the offering, with Morgan Stanley,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  leading the
sale.  Facebook, now valued at $104.2 billion, is paying less than
one-third the 3.6 percent median fee on the 10 largest U.S.
offerings in history before this one, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. With larger IPOs, banks are often willing to take
a smaller percentage fee and can use high-profile offerings to
help land more IPO mandates later on.  “This is just a once-in-10-years event, so they figure
they’ve got to be attached to it, and they’re going to glow in
the association with being a part of it,” said Eric Jackson,
founder of investment firm Ironfire Capital LLC in Naples,
Florida. “They’re going to get higher fees and more business in
the future because of it.”  Morgan Stanley Bankers  The biggest share of IPO fees typically goes to the lead
underwriter on the deal. Dan Simkowitz, Morgan Stanley’s
chairman of global capital markets, was one of the main bankers
on the offering, said a person familiar with the matter. He also
helped run  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s 2010 IPO that raised $18.1
billion.  Michael Grimes , global co-head of technology investment
banking at Morgan Stanley, also played a key role. He introduced
Facebook executives to investors at a lunch meeting last week in
Palo Alto, California, part of a road show to pitch the deal to
prospective buyers. Grimes became acquainted with Facebook Chief
Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  when he handled the IPO for
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , her former employer. He meets regularly with
investors in search of the next promising startup and is an avid
consumer of his clients’ products.  Sandberg recused herself from picking bankers for
Facebook’s IPO because she had relationships with several banks
from her previous job at Google, one person said.  CFO’s Role  Facebook Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman was the
point person on the deal, starting with the selection of the
lead bankers, one person said. Sandberg and Chief Executive
Officer Mark Zuckerberg were involved in major decisions
throughout the process, the person said.  A spokesman for  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook
declined to comment.  At JPMorgan, Vice Chairman Jimmy Lee, technology bankers
Jennifer Nason and Noah Wintroub, and equity capital markets
bankers Liz Myers and Michael Millman worked on the offering,
said one person.  The Goldman Sachs team working on the deal included
technology bankers George Lee and Scott Stanford, and equity
capital markets bankers David Ludwig and Andy Fisher, another
person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  