-- FDA Aide Joins Industry to Push Stalled Food Regulations
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-05-18T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/fda-aide-joins-industry-to-push-stalled-food-regulations.html
Food companies, consumer groups and
even a senior administration official are pressuring the White
House to announce new food safety regulations that were mandated
by law to be released more than four months ago.  Food companies such as General Mills Inc. and consumer
groups are joining forces to lobby President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to implement provisions of the  Food Safety
Modernization Act , which would increase oversight of the U.S.
food chain.  “I can’t remember an issue where my members were so
insistent that government get off its butt and issue
regulations,” said Bryan Silbermann, president and CEO of the
 Newark , Delaware-based Produce Marketing Association. His group,
which includes  Wal-Mart Stores Inc., (WMT)  the largest food retailer
in  North America , and Sysco Corp., the largest distributor of
food to restaurants in North America, wrote a letter to Obama on
April 5 urging him to release the draft rules.  The delay is due to “political issues in an election
year,” Silbermann said in an interview. “People are
dithering.”  A U.S. Food and Drug Administration official, concerned
that the regulations were stalled in a review by the White House
Office of Management and Budget, has worked behind the scenes to
step up pressure on regulators to release the rules, according
to two food safety advocates.  “The official told me that process has slowed down and
that the people who had a stake in making things happen should
make their voices heard,” said William Marler, a Seattle-based
food safety lawyer who backs a greater role for the FDA.  Pressure Encouraged  Marler has blogged about the delay and  Food Safety News , a
news service associated with his  law firm , has published stories
on the regulatory holdup.  Nancy Donley, of  STOP Foodborne Illness , a Chicago-based
nonprofit food safety advocacy group, said that her organization
was contacted by the FDA official and urged to keep up its
campaign. “He has thanked us every time we’ve spoken out and
has encouraged us to keep the pressure on,” she said in a
telephone interview. Both Marler and Donley declined to identify
the FDA official publicly.  The FDA’s legal power over domestically-grown fruits and
vegetables and imported food will be expanded under the law,
which  Obama signed  in January 2011. The agency will also get the
power to order recalls of contaminated food. The  Congressional
Budget Office  estimates that carrying out the law will cost $1.4
billion through 2015.  3,000 Deaths  The Centers for Disease Control estimates that about 3,000
Americans die each year from food contamination. Food-borne
pathogens sicken some 48 million people a year in the U.S. and
result in 128,000 hospitalizations, according to the CDC.  The rules under OMB review are especially important because
they are just the foundation for wider regulations authorized by
the law, said Caroline Smith DeWaal, food safety
director at the Center for Science in the Public Interest,
Washington nonprofit health advocacy group.  “The delay at this point signifies a much longer
implementation time,” DeWaal said.  The FDA says it welcomes the debate.  “People representing both consumers and industry care
deeply about these food safety rules and they are not shy about
telling FDA or others in the administration they want them
released,”  Michael Taylor , FDA’s deputy commissioner for foods,
said in an e-mailed statement. “I respect their right to
express their views to me and to others.”  Taylor said the proposed rules are in “the late stages of
clearance and we expect them soon.” Release of the rules will
be followed by a public comment period that could lead to
changes in the regulations. Taylor declined to address whether
he or any other FDA official encouraged a pressure campaign on
the White House.  Prevention First  Under the new law, the FDA would shift its focus from
responding to food contamination outbreaks to preventing the
adulteration of items in the food chain at the source. The
agency also intends to hire more field inspectors to examine
high-risk items such as leafy greens, fruit and imported food.  The FDA submitted food safety rules to Cass Sunstein, the
administration’s top regulator, in November and December of
2011. Sunstein is administrator of the  Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs . The agency, part of OMB, is responsible for
analyzing whether U.S. regulations are worth their cost and
making sure they strike a balance between public safety and
economic growth.  The FDA official complained “about Sunstein ‘sitting on
the regs,’” according to Marler. “I think he’s really
frustrated with OMB,” he said.  Important, Complex  OMB says it is not unusual for a review of major public
health regulations to extend past deadlines.  “The Administration is working as expeditiously as
possible to implement this legislation we fought so hard for,”
said Moira Mack, an OMB spokeswoman. “When it comes to rules
with this degree of importance and complexity, it is critical
that we get it right.”  John Bode, a Washington lawyer who represents food
producers, said it’s unlikely that wrangling over cost is
holding up the rules.  “In my experience in rulemaking, I’ve just not seen a
cost-benefit analysis cause an extended delay in a proposed
rule,” Bode said.  Groups writing letters to administration officials in
support of release of the rules include the  Consumers Union , the
Grocery Manufacturers Association, the Pew Charitable Trusts and
the Global Food Safety Initiative, a project of the Consumer
Goods Forum.  General Mills, Blue Diamond  “We ask you to support the prompt release of the major
proposed FSMA rules currently under review at OMB,” said a
March 27 letter to Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  signed jointly by Rebecca Rimel, president and CEO of
the Pew trusts, and Pamela Bailey, president of the grocery
manufacturers’ group.  The Pew trusts, headquartered in Philadelphia, underwrite
food safety programs, and the Washington-based GMA represents
more than 300 businesses in the consumer packaged goods
industry, including Blue Diamond Growers,  Campbell Soup Co. (CBP) , and
General Mills.  “General Mills is and has been strongly supportive of the
FDA Food Safety Modernization Act, and we look forward to the
implementation of the Act after it has completed its regulatory
review,”  Maerenn Jepsen , a spokeswoman for the Minneapolis-
based company, said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe it’s
good for Sysco and the industry to play by a consistent set of
rules,” said Charley Wilson, a spokesman for the Houston-based
company.  Four Areas  Draft rules submitted by FDA to OMB cover four areas: a
requirement that imported food meet the same safety standards as
domestic produce; new safety standards for food production
facilities; a set of guidelines for animal feed makers; and new
requirements for growing and processing fruits and vegetables.  Under the  food safety law , the FDA was required to publish
a proposed rule for produce -- a major expansion of the FDA’s
regulatory power -- by Jan. 4, the first anniversary of Obama’s
signing of the law. Instead, that rule and the other guidelines
have remained under study in Sunstein’s office.  Silbermann likens the Obama administration’s hesitation on
food safety regulations to the president’s self-professed
evolution to support gay marriage.  “He didn’t want to touch it, but when forced to, he
supported it,” Silbermann said. “I’d like to think that the
same thing will happen with food safety regulations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Franklin at 
 tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  