-- Fed May Prefer Another Twist to Adding Assets
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-05-18T22:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/fed-may-prefer-another-twist-to-adding-assets.html
Federal Reserve policy makers may
find another round of Operation Twist is preferable to an
outright asset-purchase program if the economy shows further
signs of weakness or risks increase.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on April 25 said he was prepared
to take further action to aid the economy if necessary, even as
he signaled that he didn’t see an immediate need to add stimulus
with inflation near the Fed’s goal and  unemployment  falling. The
minutes from the Fed’s April meeting showed several policy
makers said additional action could be necessary if the recovery
slips.  “If there were scope to do another twist of some type it
would be prudent to consider it, especially in the scenario
where things are worse and the Fed feels like it needs to
move,” said Nathan Sheets,  Global Head  of International
Economics at Citigroup Inc. in New York. Until August, Sheets
was the Fed’s top international economist.  Economists such as Sheets and Credit Suisse Securities’
Dana Saporta say the Fed’s $400 billion program to extend the
maturity of bonds has been just as effective as earlier programs
to expand its balance sheet, known as quantitative easing. That
may make another version of the maturity extension, which is
dubbed Operation Twist and is set to expire in June, preferable
because it doesn’t risk the same political backlash.  “From a purely economic standpoint it doesn’t matter that
much” which option the Fed chooses, Sheets said. “From a
public-relations standpoint it might have consequences.”  Government Debt  With Operation Twist, the Fed has sought to lower borrowing
costs through purchases of longer-term government debt. Those
purchases were offset by sales of shorter-term debt, keeping the
total size of the Fed’s balance sheet unchanged. The sales
didn’t raise short-term yields because the Fed has pledged to
keep interest rates near zero at least through late 2014.  By contrast, the Fed’s two rounds of large-scale asset
purchases expanded its  balance sheet  by a total of $2.3
trillion. The second round, amounting to $600 billion and
announced in November 2010, sparked the harshest political
backlash against the Fed in three decades.  Sarah Palin, the 2008 vice-presidential candidate, called
the program a “dangerous experiment in printing $600 billion
out of thin air” in a letter to the Wall Street Journal.  Republicans, including House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio ,
sent Bernanke a letter saying it risked accelerating inflation,
weakening the dollar and fueling asset bubbles.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices as measured by the personal consumption
expenditures index, the gauge preferred by the Fed, rose 2.1
percent in March from a year earlier, close to the central
bank’s 2 percent inflation goal.  “The Fed has already shown itself to be sensitive to
political criticism by choosing to do Operation Twist,” which
didn’t provoke the same type of backlash, said Saporta, U.S.
economist at Credit Suisse in New York.  Stocks and bond yields have slid since the central bank’s
most recent meeting on April 24-25 amid renewed fears that
 Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening and as data pointed to
economic weakness in the U.S.  American employers added 115,000 jobs in April, the fewest
in six months, according to a Labor Department report released
the week after the Fed meeting.  Adding to Europe’s woes, figures released today by the Bank
of  Spain  showed that bad loans as a proportion of total lending
at the nation’s banks jumped to 8.37 percent in March, the
highest since August 1994.  Treasury Yields  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell for a sixth straight
day, declining 0.7 percent to 1,295.22 at the close of trading
in  New York . The index has fallen 6.9 percent since the Fed
meeting. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note was 1.72
percent, near the lowest on record, compared with 1.98 percent
on April 25.  One obstacle to repeating Twist: the Fed has less short-
term debt to sell, and there’s less long-term debt left in the
market to buy. The Fed could solve that problem by concentrating
both sales and purchases in even longer maturities, Saporta
said.  In the existing program, the Fed has sold securities with
less than three years remaining. The central bank would have
more assets to sell if it extended its sales to securities with
four or even five remaining years. The central bank’s balance
sheet still has $547.7 billion of Treasuries maturing in one to
five years, as of May 16.  Less Effective  Antulio Bomfim, a former Fed economist, said any new
version of Operation Twist would be less effective.  “They would have to sell assets of longer maturities than
they are selling now, which would diminish the effect,” said
Bomfim, a Washington-based senior managing director at
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC.  Any new program of asset purchases will be limited by the
size of available long-term securities in the market, said  Drew Matus , senior U.S. economist for UBS AG in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  For example, the Fed owns $310.2 billion of Treasuries with
more than 10 years, compared with a total market of about $1
trillion. An additional round of purchases could push Fed
ownership up to 50 percent of those maturities, potentially
reducing the liquidity and functioning of the market, he said.  A survey of 21 primary dealers by the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York  in April showed that the financial institutions that
deal directly with the Fed see another round of quantitative
easing as more likely than a new version of Operation Twist.  Odds of Easing  Respondents assigned a 20 percent probability that the
central bank would further increase the duration of its
portfolio within one year, and 25 percent probability of such
action within two years. Respondents gave quantitative easing a
45 percent chance of occurring in the next two years.  A Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, analysts and traders
who are Bloomberg subscribers conducted on May 8 showed that
more than three in five respondents expected the Fed to take
more action to aid the economy after “Operation Twist” expires
in June.  About two in five respondents anticipated the Fed will
adopt a similar strategy to Twist. About one in five said it
will embark on a third round of large-scale asset purchases.  Policy makers have said allowing Operation Twist to lapse
wouldn’t amount to less  accommodative  monetary conditions.  “There should be relatively minimal effects on  interest
rates ” when the program ends, Bernanke said in his April 25
press conference.  “Of course, we’ll continue to monitor the situation,” he
said. “And if we believe that financial conditions for whatever
reason are inconsistent with our macroeconomic objectives, then
we will act to fix that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  