-- Fisker Karma Fire in Texas Garage Being Probed by NHTSA
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-05-18T20:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/fisker-karma-fire-in-texas-garage-being-probed-by-nhtsa.html
U.S. auto-safety regulators are
joining inquiries into a  Texas  garage fire that destroyed a
Fisker Automotive Inc. Karma, a $103,000 plug-in electric
vehicle.  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
sent investigators to help investigate the cause of the fire at
a home in  Sugar Land , Texas, that Fisker learned of May 3,
Claude Harris, the agency’s director of vehicle safety
compliance, said today.  “We are conducting an ongoing field inquiry for an EV
incident in Texas,” Harris said at a Transportation Department
electric-vehicle safety forum in  Washington . “We are still
engaged in that activity, and no determination has been made at
this time.”  Lynda Tran, an agency spokeswoman, confirmed that the Texas
inquiry is of the Fisker fire.  Fisker, based in Anaheim,  California , received $529 million
in electric-vehicle loans from the U.S. Energy Department to
develop the Karma and a proposed second model, the Atlantic. The
 credit line  was frozen last year after the company was late in
meeting milestones related to the Karma, which is made in
Finland.  ‘Routine,’ Fisker Says  Roger Ormisher, a company spokesman, called the inquiry
“routine.” The company is working with NHTSA and insurance
adjusters to determine the fire’s cause, he said.  “We also understand that the officials looked at other
vehicles involved in the fire too,” he said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The lithium-ion battery of the Fisker Karma was fully
intact after the fire and has been tested and is in full working
condition. Currently, the precise ignition source and cause of
the garage fire is still to be determined.”  NHTSA’s inquiry is one in a series the agency has done of
incidents involving electric vehicles equipped with  lithium-ion
batteries , Harris said. Others include a fire in  North Carolina 
last year that was determined to not have been caused by the
electric car, and an incident in which a  General Motors Co. (GM) 
Chevrolet Volt caught fire three weeks after the agency
performed crash tests on it.  Fisker officials said May 8 that the car couldn’t have
caused the fire because its battery was intact and wasn’t being
charged at the time. The vehicle was purchased after the recall
of Karmas with defective battery packs supplied by  A123 Systems
Inc. (AONE)   Loan Defended  It made those statements after a Fort Bend County, Texas,
fire investigator was quoted by Auto Week, an industry
publication, as saying the fire originated with the vehicle.  The Energy Department, whose loan programs are subject to
congressional scrutiny, defended its loan to Fisker in a letter
today to Republican Senators  Charles Grassley  of Iowa and John Thune of South Dakota.  The pair had asked the agency last month to respond to
questions about the loan to Fisker, which they called “one of
the more unusual recipients.”  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Nissan Motor Co.
and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  also received Advanced Technology Vehicles
Manufacturing loans.  Months of Diligence  “Like the due diligence performed on all ATVM
applications, the department’s due diligence for the Fisker loan
was extensive with rigorous financial, technical, legal and
market analysis conducted over many months by DOE’s internal
professional staff, including qualified engineers and financial
experts and outside experts,” David Frantz, acting executive
director of the department’s loan programs office, said in the
letter.  Grassley and Thune said the response ignored the questions
they posed.  “There’s also a lot of discussion of the due diligence
that went into making the loan but no evidence to show what that
due diligence actually was,” Grassley said in an e-mailed
statement. “I intend to follow up for a more thorough
response.”  Representative Andy Harris, a Maryland Republican who is
chairman of the House Science Energy and Environment
Subcommittee, also sent a letter today to the Energy Department
asking for information about its advanced-vehicle spending,
including grants given to  Ecotality Inc. (ECTY) , which installs
vehicle-charging infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  