-- Five-Team Women’s Pro-Soccer League Dissolving After Three Years
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-18T15:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/five-team-women-s-pro-soccer-league-dissolving-after-three-years.html
Women’s Professional Soccer , the one-
time home of U.S. players Abby Wambach, Hope Solo and Christie Rampone, is folding after three seasons and a legal battle with
a former team owner.  The WPS board agreed to permanently suspend operations
immediately, the San Francisco-based soccer league said today in
a release on its Facebook  page .  After starting with seven teams in 2009, the league shrank
to five before suspending operations earlier this year.  “We are proud of what WPS has accomplished, having
attracted the highest quality players in the world to play in
the best women’s league, as well as the progress women’s soccer
has enjoyed over the past three years,” Thomas Hofstetter,
chief executive and president of Sky Blue Women’s Soccer Inc.,
said in the statement. “We are extremely grateful to our
sponsors, the talented players and dedicated fans that made this
league so special.”  The WPS also announced today that it reached a confidential
settlement with South Florida franchise owner Dan Borislow, who
had sued the WPS when his team was kicked out of the league. In
January, the five-team league announced that it was suspending
its 2012 season to focus on Borislow’s lawsuit but hoped to
return next year. It said the lawsuit “diverted resources from
investment in the league.”  The last five franchises were the Atlanta Beat, Boston
Breakers, Philadelphia Independence, New Jersey-based Sky Blue
FC and Western  New York  Flash, according to the league’s
website.  Part-owners and investors in the league included Phoenix
Suns guard  Steve Nash  and former  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  President and Chief
Operating Officer Jeffrey Mallett, according to the league
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  