-- Fracker Range Resouces Sues Over YouTube of Burning Well
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-05-18T12:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/fracker-range-resouces-sues-over-youtube-of-burning-well.html
Steven Lipsky shot video of methane-
fueled flames shooting from a hose hooked up to his well in
Weatherford, Texas, and sent it to Sharon Wilson, a blogger who
 posted  it on YouTube. And he hired Alisa Rich to test the water
in his well and alert the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  For gas-driller Range Resources Corp. -- which Lipsky
blames for contaminating his water from two wells near his home
-- those actions amount to a conspiracy to harm its reputation,
and it went to state court seeking $3 million in damages from
Lipsky and Rich.  Range won one round in its fight this week, when a judge
ruled that Wilson had to turn over e-mails she exchanged with
the EPA and Lipsky, as she is a “central and recurring
character in the conspiracy lawsuit.”  “This has everything to do with Range trying to shut me
up, and further intimidate opponents,” Wilson said in an
interview.  Wilson, who said she didn’t even receive the video
of Lipsky’s flaming hose until after the EPA acted, said she
fears she may be added to the suit against Lipsky and Rich.  The fight between Range and environmental activists has
taken on national import as Republican lawmakers allege the EPA,
and especially the regional office in Dallas, has persecuted oil
and gas drillers over hydraulic fracturing, with the  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based Range case a primary example. Hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, involves pumping water, sand and chemicals
underground to free gas.  Armendariz Resignation  At the heart of the complaint by Range, a counterclaim to a
suit filed against it by Lipsky, is the allegation that Lipsky
and Rich, president of Wolf Eagle Environmental consultants,
conspired to persuade the EPA to intervene, working with the EPA
regional administrator Al Armendariz.  Armendariz resigned this month after a tape from 2010
emerged in which he compared the agency’s efforts against
polluters to Roman conquerors suppressing Turkish towns by
crucifying residents. A photo of Armendariz with Wilson is part
of Range’s filing with the court. Armendariz didn’t return a
telephone message.  “Everyone has a right to petition their government, but
there is also a duty and a responsibility to do so truthfully
and accurately,” Andrew Sims, an attorney for Range in the
case, said in an interview. “The evidence is very convincing
and very strong that there was a conspiracy.”  SLAPP Cases  Lawyers for Rich and Lipsky tried to get Judge Trey Loftin
in the 43rd district court in Parker County,  Texas , to throw out
the case, arguing that it violates a Texas law against so-called
Strategic Lawsuits Against Public Participation, or SLAPPs.
Loftin  rejected  that argument, and the case was appealed to the
Texas Second  Court  of Appeals in Fort Worth.  Companies file SLAPP cases to try to deter outside critics,
said  Eric Goldman , a law professor at  Santa Clara  University
School of Law in Santa Clara,  California , who studies the issue.  Appealing to the government for help is a core protection
in U.S. law, Goldman said in an interview. Citizens should have
wide legal leeway in what they can tell public officials so
“the government can make the call,” he said.  While one could argue the Range countersuit was filed to
silence criticism, one could also say Lipsky hasn’t been
deterred from public speech because he sued the company, said
lawyer Douglas E. Mirell of Loeb & Loeb LLP in  Los Angeles , who
isn’t involved in the litigation.  Question of Law  If the Range counterclaim moves forward, the gas company
would have to prove it had been defamed, a question of law that
pivots on whether the court deems it to be a public figure, one
that willingly thrust itself into the public eye, Mirell said.
If Range is ruled public, then it must convince the court that
its adversaries made statements they knew were false or with
reckless disregard for whether they were true, he said.  “If the corporation is found to be a public figure, then
it’s going to be incredibly difficult for a defamation claim to
succeed,” he said. Absent such a finding, the defamation
standard would be mere negligence, “and that’s a pretty low
bar,” he said.  A few facts of the case are not in dispute: Range drilled
near Lipsky’s property in Weatherford in 2009, and used
hydraulic fracturing. In 2010 Lipsky, who didn’t respond to
telephone messages seeking comment, complained about seeing
vapors from gas escaping from his drinking well, and called out
a service crew because he couldn’t get water from the well.  ‘Felt Terrible’  After that it gets contentious.  According to a deposition filed with the Texas Railroad
Commission, which regulates oil and gas drilling in the state,
Lipsky became concerned about his water quality in 2010, and
appealed to the commission and other state regulators asking
them to intervene. Lipsky said he felt sick.  “I felt like maybe I was dying of cancer,” he said in the
 deposition  from January 2011. “I’m not sure. I just felt
terrible.”  He also sent off the video of flames shooting out of his
hose from his well to Wilson, who writes the blog  BlueDaze  under
the moniker TXSharon about the gas industry in Texas, she said.
Lipsky hired Rich in August 2010, after state regulators failed
to act, Rich said in an interview.  Emissions Testing  Before she took the job, Rich e-mailed Lipsky on Aug. 12,
proposing testing emissions in the air five feet from the well.  “I can then contact the EPA and discuss the fact that we
have a multi-issue environmental concern, including potential
explosion AND impact to human health (especially children) they
will be very receptive,” Rich wrote in the e-mail, which is in
the court file. “It’s worth every penny if we can get
jurisdiction to the EPA.”  That e-mail is at the core of the conspiracy case. “She
reached a conclusion about how they can stage this test to get
the EPA inflamed over the matter,” Sims said.  Rich says she was responding to what she heard from Lipsky,
and said she always “shoots straight” with her tests. And when
she took the readings at Lipsky’s house a few days later, she
found dangerous methane levels, told Lipsky to move out of his
house and contacted the local fire department.  “I was majorly concerned the place would blow up,” Rich
said in an interview. Because state officials wouldn’t help,
Rich said she also called EPA officials in  Dallas  later that
month when the results came back and asked them to get involved.  ‘Classic Runaround’  “There was no other solution, other than to notify the
EPA,” Rich said. “He was getting the classic runaround.”  Lipsky also hired a lawyer, David Ritter, who sent a letter
to Range’s general counsel David Poole on Sept. 21, 2010,
detailing the level of contaminants found in the water and
indoor air. “The Lipskys hope that this situation may be
resolved without the need for litigation, especially considering
the amount of local, regional and national media attention a
case of this type and magnitude may produce,” Ritter said in
the letter.  In December 2010 the EPA issued an order that Range’s gas
drilling near Lipsky’s home had caused “extremely high levels”
of methane, which can be explosive, and the presence of benzene,
a carcinogen. The EPA said in a  statement  that it ordered the
company to “stop the contamination immediately.” A month
later, the agency filed a lawsuit against Range in U.S. District
Court in Dallas asking a judge to compel the company to comply
with the order.  Range Not Responsible  The EPA’s December order generated the news headlines
Ritter had suggested, and a flurry of actions followed. The
Texas Railroad Commission held a hearing, and ruled that Range
wasn’t responsible for the contamination. Lipsky sued Range,
which had $1.2 billion in revenue in 2011, in district court in
Parker County. In July 2011, Range fired back, filing its
countersuit against Lipsky and Rich.  “Rich’s scheme was designed to enlist the EPA in pursuing
a costly ‘investigation’ against Range, which resulted in
significant harm to Range’s well-deserved reputation as a high-
quality driller,” the company said in its countersuit.  Loftin ruled that Lipsky had to take his original complaint
to state officials, not to the court.  This week, Loftin ruled that Wilson, who now works for the
Earthworks’ Oil & Gas Accountability Project, should be afforded
no protections as a journalist, and had to turn over e-mails
requested by Range.  “The court finds that she is what she holds herself out to
be: an activist,” Loftin wrote in his decision on May 15.  The EPA has backed off as well. Even before Armendariz
resigned, the agency had settled its case in federal court
against Range after the company agreed to test 30 local water
wells and turn over relevant testing data to the agency.  Wilson said she fled a 42-acre rural property after gas
drillers moved in. Sitting in her home in Allen, a suburb of
Dallas, she said that instead of spending millions of dollars on
legal fees and investigations of her finances, Range could
pursue a much simpler strategy.  “The best way to shut me up is to drill better.”  The EPA case is U.S. v. Range Production Co., 11-cv-00116,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The
case in Texas state court is Lipsky v. Durant, 11-cv-0798, 43rd
District Court of Texas, Parker County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  