-- Frankfurt Police Lock City Down Amid Anti-Capitalist Protests
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-05-18T11:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/frankfurt-police-lock-city-down-amid-anti-capitalist-protests.html
Frankfurt police diverted traffic and
erected barriers around banks in  Germany ’s financial capital
amid unauthorized anti-capitalist protests.  Officers blocked the streets around the  European Central
Bank  to motorists and reduced traffic outside  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s
headquarters to one lane. About 150 protesters gathered close to
the ECB and another 150 rallied at the city’s trade fair venue,
Isabell Neumann, a police spokeswoman, said by telephone today.
Smaller pockets of demonstrators gathered in other parts of the
city, she said.  The protests are taking place as disenchantment with  Europe 
and Germany’s response to the sovereign debt crisis grows and
Frankfurt, the euro’s birthplace, has become a focal point of
the discontent. The demonstrators intend to stop access to
places of work, although they failed to obtain the permits
required to hold the first three of their four days of planned
rallies through Saturday.  “It’s the cops that are doing the occupying,” said
Henrike Joerissen, an actress at  Frankfurt ’s Schauspielhaus who
wasn’t part of the protest. “It has never been so calm in the
city. I enjoy that.”  “We’re protesting against an economic system that doesn’t
work anymore,” said James Baliani, a 28-year-old protester.
“The ECB is a part of the troika which acts as a dictator in
the interest of the financial institutions. The protests are
largely symbolical as the ECB and the banks have closed their
doors.”  The ECB has taken steps to remain operational and ensure
the safety of its employees and visitors during the protests,
the central bank said in a statement yesterday.  Deutsche Bank will protect its staff and clients, Armin Niedermeier, a spokesman for Germany’s biggest bank, said today
by phone. Smaller competitor  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  closed two of its
buildings in the city center during the protests, the lender
said in a May 15 statement.  Permits  About 5,000 police will be deployed throughout the four
days of rallies and individuals gathering without a permit are
being taken in custody, said Neumann. A group of about 100
protesters met in Frankfurt’s Westend neighborhood while 30
people sought to block off the Friedensbruecke bridge close to
the train station this morning, she said.  Eppi Schmitt, a 27-year-old bicycle courier, said orders
fell to about half their normal levels today on a lack of demand
from banks.  “As a cyclist it is a dream that the city is shut down,”
Schmitt said in an interview. “There are no cars, no rush hour.
You’ve got the streets for yourself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  