-- Schaeuble Sees Two Years of Turmoil as G-8 Leaders Meet
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-05-18T12:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/g-8-meets-as-schaeuble-says-markets-face-two-years-of-turmoil.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said turmoil in the financial markets caused by
Europe’s debt crisis may last another two years, as Group of
Eight leaders prepared to discuss Greece and its impact on the
global economy.  More than 2 1/2 years after Greece revealed its bloated
 budget deficit , Europe has “known a lot of crisis,” Schaeuble
said in a recorded interview broadcast today on  France ’s Europe
1 radio. “It’s practically normal.” Even so, “in 12 to 24
months we’ll see a calming of financial markets,” he said.  At the same time, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government has a duty to voters to prepare for a potential Greek
exit, Finance Ministry spokeswoman Silke Bruns said. “People
have the right to expect the government to make preparations for
all eventualities,” Bruns said at a regular government press
briefing in Berlin today.  Merkel and fellow European leaders face pressure from their
G-8 counterparts to do more to quell the crisis after almost $4
trillion was wiped from global equity markets this month amid
speculation that Greece will exit the euro. The U.S., which
hosts the G-8 summit starting today, faces economic challenges
from the “damaging” situation in Europe, Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday.  European stocks  headed for their biggest weekly decline
since November and the euro touched a four-month low amid
investor concern that the crisis is worsening.  Video Call  Europe’s G-8 chiefs -- Merkel, French President  Francois Hollande , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron , plus EU leaders  Herman Van Rompuy  and
 Jose Barroso  -- held a video call on the crisis yesterday and
agreed that fiscal rigor and economic growth are mutually
compatible, Merkel’s office said.  “During the G-8, it’s very important to see that the
Europeans form a common position as quickly as possible,”
Schaeuble said in the radio interview. “In recent years we
haven’t been quick enough” at doing that.  Cameron called for more to be done “to persuade euro-zone
countries to take really decisive action” to deal with the
problems rather than “kicking the can down the road,” he told
ITV television today. The U.K. is not part of the 17-nation euro
area.  ‘False Promises’  Geithner, in a speech in Baltimore, highlighted the debate
in  Europe  over encouraging growth, as demanded by Hollande, and
the need to consolidate budgets and reduce debt insisted upon by
Merkel. Merkel and Hollande said two days ago at their first
meeting that they would consider measures to spur growth in
Greece as long as voters there committed to the austerity
demanded to remain in the currency region.  “We want Greece to stay in the euro,” Schaeuble said.
“But that presupposes that Greece does on its side what is
necessary to develop its economy.” Policy makers are open to
“every suggestion targeting more growth,” he said. “It’s up
to the Greek politicians to explain reality, not make false
promises.”  European officials are working on contingency plans to deal
with a possible Greek exit, European Union Trade Commissioner
Karel De Gucht told the Belgian newspaper De Standaard in an
interview published today.  “A year and a half ago, there might have been the danger
of a domino effect, but today there are both within the  European
Central Bank  and the European Commission officials who are
working on the emergency scenarios in case  Greece  doesn’t make
it,” De Gucht was quoted as saying by the newspaper.  Greek Downgrade  Greek political leaders began campaigning today for the
June 17 election, the second vote in six weeks, after a rise in
support for anti-austerity parties scuppered the formation of a
government. Greece’s credit rating was downgraded one level by
 Fitch Ratings  late yesterday on concerns the country won’t be
able to muster the political support needed to sustain its
membership in the euro area.  “An exit would require two conditions: for a Greek
government to reject the terms of the EU/IMF program and for the
rest of the region to take a hard line in any renegotiation
process,” David Mackie, chief European economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co, said in a note. “Recent developments suggest that
both of these conditions may now be falling into place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  