-- Gasoline Stockpiles Rise to 14-Month High in Europe’s Hub
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-05-18T16:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/gasoline-stockpiles-rise-to-14-month-high-in-europe-s-hub-1-.html
Gasoline stockpiles in independent
storage in Europe’s oil-trading hub rose to a 14-month high
boosted by imports, according to PJK International BV.  Gasoline inventories in the Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp
area climbed 34 percent to 928,000 metric tons in the week to
today as shipments from  France ,  Germany ,  Russia , Trinidad and
Tobago and the U.K. arrived, according to PJK, a researcher in
the Netherlands. That’s the highest level since March 17, 2011.
The fuel was exported to  Argentina ,  Guinea , Nigeria,  Saudi
Arabia  and  South Africa .  “There were lots of imports from Russia and the U.K.,”
Patrick Kulsen, commercial director at PJK, said today by phone.
“Some customers have reached their maximum tank capacity.”  Gasoil supplies decreased 5.1 percent to 2.27 million tons
on exports to Argentina, Guinea and Ghana, according to PJK
data. That’s the lowest level since Jan. 19. Cargoes arrived
from Canada, France, Russia and the U.K.  Inventories of the fuel, which include heating oil and
diesel, fell because of the “steep” backwardation in the
futures market, Kulsen said.  “Now is the best time to get rid of your inventory,” he
said. Backwardation is a price structure where near term
loadings cost more than future deliveries.  Gasoil for June delivery was at $909 a ton as of 4:11 p.m.
local time on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London. The
July contract was at $906. On May 10, the backwardation reached
$8, the widest spread since Dec. 12.  The following table shows the weekly inventory changes in
thousands of tons for gasoline, naphtha,  fuel oil  and jet fuel
in independent storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in  London  at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  