-- German Stocks Fall; DAX Posts Biggest Weekly Loss of 2012
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-18T16:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/german-stocks-decline-fof-fifth-day-bmw-sinks-on-china.html
German stocks  retreated for a fifth
day, extending the biggest weekly drop of the year, as
automakers fell amid signs  China’s economy  is slowing.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  dropped at
least 2 percent.  Solarworld AG (SWV)  surged 6.5 percent after the U.S.
imposed tariffs on Chinese solar companies.  The  DAX (DAX)  Index fell 0.6 percent to 6,271.22 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt, after earlier gaining as much as 0.4
percent and sinking as much as 1.3 percent. The benchmark gauge
has retreated 4.7 percent this week, the largest drop since Dec.
16, amid growing concern that Greece will leave the euro area.
The broader HDAX Index slid 0.8 percent today.  Moody’s lowered debt ratings at 16 Spanish banks, citing
mounting loan losses, the country’s recession, restricted access
to funds and the reduced ability of the government to support
lenders as its own creditworthiness diminishes.  Greece’s credit grade was cut one level by  Fitch Ratings  on
concern the country won’t muster the political support needed to
sustain its euro membership as leaders began campaigning ahead
of the second national vote in six weeks.  Group of Eight leaders meet today at a summit at Camp
David, the U.S. presidential retreat in Maryland. The agenda for
the meeting includes Greece’s debt crisis, global  food security 
and the role of strategic oil reserves in cushioning any
economic shocks from a European Union ban on Iranian imports
that begins July.  Chinese Economy  In  China , reports today showed house prices fell in a
record number of cities in April and car dealers posted
inventory levels that signaled deeper price cuts.  Prices of new homes declined from a year earlier in 46 of
the 70 cities tracked by the National Bureau of Statistics, the
agency said today. Dealerships for Honda Motor Co., Chery
Automobile Co., BYD Co. and Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. had
more than 45 days of inventory at the end of last month,
according to an official from the government-backed China
Automobile Dealers Association.  Preferred shares of Volkswagen, the world’s second-biggest
carmaker, dropped 2 percent to 128.20 euros, a three-week low.
BMW, the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , fell 2.3
percent to 61.31 euros.  Daimler AG (DAI)  slid 1.6 percent to 37.04
euros. A gauge of automakers was the worst performer of 19
 industry groups  in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-biggest sporting-goods maker,
fell 2 percent to 59.20 euros.  Infineon Slides  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , Europe’s second-largest maker of
semiconductors, dropped 3.6 percent to 6.20 euros, dropping for
a third day. SAP AG, the biggest maker of software used to run
enterprises, slid  for a fifth day, falling 2.4 percent to 46.39
euros.  Solarworld surged 6.5 percent to 1.62 euros. The U.S.
Commerce Department imposed preliminary anti-dumping tariffs of
31 percent to 250 percent on Chinese solar-product imports,
siding with companies including Solarworld in the U.S. that said
the items were sold below the cost of production.  Solarworld got 21 percent of revenue from the U.S. last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , the German provider of polysilicon, added
2.3 percent to 57.87 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  