-- German Bond Yields Fall to Record After Spain Downgrades
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-05-18T10:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/german-bond-yields-fall-to-record-after-spanish-bank-downgrades.html
German two-, five-, 10- and 30-year
bond yields dropped to all-time lows after Moody’s Investors
Service lowered the credit ratings of 16 Spanish banks, spurring
demand for Europe’s safest government debt.  Benchmark bunds headed for a fifth weekly advance as a
report showed German producer-price  inflation  slowed in April.
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  were
among lenders cut by Moody’s, which cited economic weakness and
Spain’s budget strains. Separately,  Greece ’s credit grade was
lowered one level by  Fitch Ratings . The cost of insuring Spanish
government debt against default rose to a record high.  “We saw a classic flight to quality after the bank
downgrades,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “They
were more aggressive than expected, and the  ratings agencies 
will be looking at the banking systems of other euro-zone
countries. The downgrades came on the back of fears of bank
runs, and that’s supporting demand for bunds.”  German 10-year yields were little changed at 1.42 percent
as of 11:12 a.m.  London  time, after falling as much as two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.396 percent. That’s the
first time the rate has dropped to less than 1.40 percent. The
1.75 percent security due in July 2022 traded at 103.115.  The  two-year note  yield slid to 0.031 percent, while the
five-year rate dropped to 0.463 percent, also records. The 30-
year bund yield fell to an all-time low of 2.046 percent.  All-Time Lows  The yields on Finnish, Dutch and Austrian 10-year
government securities also reached all-time lows as investors
sought the highest-rated euro-denominated debt.  Spain’s borrowing costs jumped at a debt sale yesterday
after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said May 16 the nation risked
losing access to market funding.  Spanish  government bonds  reversed earlier declines, leaving
the  10-year bond  yield nine basis points lower at 6.22 percent,
after rising as much as seven basis points to 6.38 percent. The
rate surged to more than 6.50 percent on May 16 for the first
time since November.  Credit-default swaps on  Spain  rose five basis points to 556
basis points, after being quoted at an all-time high of 560.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Italian bonds also reversed an earlier drop, leaving the
10-year yield nine basis points lower at 5.73 percent, after
reaching as much as 5.91 percent.  Fitch cut Greece’s long-term credit rating to CCC from B-,
citing heightened risk that the nation may not be able to
sustain membership of the monetary union.  Producer Prices  German producer prices increased 2.4 percent in the year to
April, down from a 3.3 percent rise a month earlier, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that
European countries need to form a common position at Group of
Eight meetings as quickly as possible.  “During the G-8, it’s very important to see that the
Europeans form a common position as quickly as possible,”
Schaeuble said today on  Europe  1 radio.  “In recent years we
haven’t been quick enough.”  Leaders of the Group of Eight nations gather at a summit at
Camp David, the U.S. presidential retreat in  Maryland  today.  2-10 Spread  Longer-maturity German bonds have outperformed shorter-
dated notes this week with the difference in yields between two-
year notes and 10-year bunds falling to the least in more than
six months.  The  spread  was little changed today at 137 basis points.
That’s down from 142 basis points on May 11 and matches the
least since Nov. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
based on closing prices. It may find resistance at the November
low of 133 basis points, and encounter support at the 200-day
moving average at 158 basis points, the data show.  German debt has returned 3 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds have lost 3.6
percent, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  