-- GM Says It Won’t Advertise During Next Super Bowl Game
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/gm-says-it-won-t-advertise-in-next-super-bowl-game.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , which announced
plans this week to cut Facebook advertising, said it won’t run
ads during the next National Football League  Super Bowl 
championship game.  “We understand the reach the Super Bowl provides, but with
the significant increase in price, we simply can’t justify the
expense,”  Joel Ewanick , the company’s global chief marketing
officer, said yesterday in a statement on the automaker’s
website. The statement didn’t provide specific figures. The game
will be broadcast on CBS.  GM’s decision to eliminate Super Bowl and Facebook ad
spending coincides with Ewanick’s efforts to reorganize the
company’s marketing efforts to increase efficiency and save $2
billion over five years.  Changes this year have included picking  Aegis Group Plc (AGS) ’s
Carat as the company’s agency for media planning and buying, and
consolidating the Chevrolet brand’s ad business under one newly
formed company called Commonwealth.  Chevrolet  had previously
used 70 ad agencies around the world, the company has said.  “Along with its other recent high-profile decision to cut
paid advertising on Facebook, GM’s new global ad agency
Commonwealth is sending the message that there is a new
advertising sheriff in town,” Michelle Krebs, a senior analyst
with Edmunds.com, a website that tracks auto sales, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “Some might even read into this move as a way for GM to
cut more costs, boost its share price and make it appealing for
the U.S. government to sell its stake in the automaker to allow
it to shed its ‘Government Motors’ moniker,” she said. The U.S.
holds a 32 percent stake in GM because of a 2009 bailout.  GM Ad Plans  Separately,  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  said it still plans to
advertise in next year’s game.  “We’re in the Super Bowl for 2013,” Steve Shannon, the
company’s U.S. chief marketing officer, said yesterday in a
statement. “It’s a perfect venue for Hyundai.”  GM isn’t cutting its ad spending and the automaker plans to
advertise on NBC during the Olympics, Pat Morrissey, a company
spokesman, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We are not
reducing our advertising,” he said. “Looking ahead at 2012 to
2013, we’re forecasting to be flat or if anything slightly up”
in such spending.  The automaker spent about $1.8 billion on advertising in
the U.S. in 2011, third after AT&T Inc. and  Procter & Gamble
Co ., Jon Swallen, head of research at Kantar Media, has said.  GM slid 2 percent to $21.18 yesterday at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  