-- Gold Climbs a Second Day as Europe Concern Boosts Demand
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-05-18T18:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/gold-set-for-third-weekly-decline-as-european-risks-curb-demand.html
Gold rose to a one-week high on
renewed speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will announce
additional stimulus to boost the  U.S. economy , increasing demand
for the precious metal as an inflation hedge.  Bullion jumped 2.5 percent yesterday, the most since
October, after a report showed that manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region unexpectedly shrank in May, the first
contraction in eight months. Before yesterday, gold was in a
 bear market , erasing this year’s gain, as Europe’s widening debt
crisis sent investors to the safety of the dollar. The Fed has
held U.S.  borrowing costs  at a record low since 2008 and bought
$2.3 trillion in housing and government debt to spur growth
during two rounds of so-called quantitative easing.  “Expectations of some form of easing have perked up the
market,” Phil Streible, a senior commodity broker at R.J.
O’Brien & Associates in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  Gold futures for June delivery gained 1.1 percent to settle
at $1,591.90 an ounce at 1:47 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Earlier, the price rose to $1,597.50, the highest since May 10.
The metal is up 1.6 percent for the year, heading for a 12th
straight annual gain.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on April 25 said he was
prepared to take further action to aid the economy if necessary.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered the credit ratings of 16
Spanish banks yesterday, and  Fitch Ratings  cut Greece’s credit
rating on concern that the country may not be able to sustain
euro membership.  ‘Too Early’  “To see a return of gold reacting positively to macro
stresses is indeed refreshing, but it is still far too early to
make any firm conclusions from here that gold has indeed turned
the corner,”  Edel Tully , an analyst at UBS AG in London, wrote
in a report today. “Follow-through buying will have to kick in
to encourage investors to jump in.”  Silver futures for July delivery rose 2.5 percent to
$28.715 an ounce on the Comex.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
July delivery climbed 0.4 percent to $1,459.30 an ounce, rising
for the second straight day. Palladium futures for June delivery
fell 0.4 percent to $603.60 an ounce.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  