-- Goldman Sachs Cuts China Growth Forecast After Slowdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-18T01:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/goldman-sachs-cuts-china-growth-forecast-after-slowdown.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists
lowered their forecast for Chinese economic  growth  after data
showed a slowdown in April, joining banks including JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and UBS AG in paring outlooks.  Gross domestic product will expand 7.9 percent this quarter
from a year earlier, down from a prior projection of 8.5 percent,
Song Yu and  Michael Buchanan  said in a research note today. They
predicted 8.1 percent growth for the full year, compared with a
previous forecast of 8.6 percent.  The government may follow the May 12 reduction in banks’
reserve  requirements  with additional cuts and further stimulus
including lowering interest rates, easing restrictions on bank
lending and faster approval of investment projects, the analysts
said. Slower global demand for exports and domestic policy
tightening are pushing  China ’s projected growth this year to the
weakest since 1999.  “There is no doubt that the level of activity growth in
April is significantly below the government’s comfort zone,”
Beijing-based Song and Hong Kong-based Buchanan said. “It is
clear that there is a consensus within the government that
policy should be loosened further.”  The second-quarter forecast by Goldman Sachs matches the
median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News May
14-15, while the full-year median projection of 22 analysts was
8.2 percent.  Even with the forecast reduction, the analysts said their
outlook for the world’s second-largest economy “reflects an
acceleration of infrastructure spending and bank lending
starting rapidly” as well as additional fiscal spending.  The central bank may cut benchmark  interest rates  twice,
each time by 25 basis points, in the second half when consumer-
price inflation slows to 3 percent or below, Song and Buchanan
said. They left their full-year estimate of consumer-price gains
unchanged at 3.1 percent.  --Scott Lanman. Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  