-- Graff Seeks $1 Billion in IPO, Plans New Asia Stores
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-05-18T16:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/graff-diamonds-mulls-prada-like-ipo-valuation.html
  Graff Diamonds Ltd. , the London
jewelry retailer that’s planning a $1 billion  Hong Kong  initial
public offering, will open five new stores in  Asia  this year to
tap demand for  luxury goods  in the region.  Graff, which has 18 stores globally including one in
Beijing opened last year, plans to add new stores in  Shanghai ,
Hangzhou, Hong Kong, Macau and  Tokyo , according to a  filing  to
Hong Kong’s stock exchange yesterday. Chinese consumers account
for about 20 percent of global spending on luxury goods and will
make Asia the fastest growing market for luxury goods in the
world, Graff said in the filing.  Graff may offer its shares in a range of 18 to 24 times
estimated 2012 earnings, or HK$25 to HK$37 each, to raise as
much as $1 billion, three people with knowledge of the matter
yesterday. About $850 million of the funds raised will go to
Graff, and $150 million to selling shareholders, they said.  “The valuation looks rather high, investors could have a
lot of choices at such multiples,” said Edwin Fan, an analyst
at BOC International Group yesterday. “Graff doesn’t have a
very high penetration in  China . It is not the perfect time to
price such an expensive IPO.”  In the proposed range, Graff’s valuation would be similar
to that of Prada SpA which is trading at about 21 times
estimated earnings for the year ending January 2013, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Italian fashion house is up
11 percent from its June 2011 IPO, which raised $2.5 billion.  LVMH, Richemont  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , PPR SA, maker of
Gucci, and  Cie Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , owner of the Cartier
brand, trade at an average of about 15 times the current year’s
estimated earnings, the data show.  Graff’s profit rose 15 percent to $120 million last year,
as sales increased 23 percent to $756 million, according to the
exchange filing. The company generated most of its revenue last
year from U.K. and  Europe .  Graff has one store in the Peninsula Hotel in Hong Kong,
where Chinese consumers take advantage of lower tax rates than
in the country’s mainland and splurge on luxury goods. The
company plans to open a second store in the Hong Kong Ritz
Carlton hotel and in  Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128) ’s casino in the former
Portuguese colony.  Graff, “relies on a very niche market, such as the super
rich in China whose net worth have been affected by the falling
property prices,” said Fan. China’s home prices fell in 46 of
70 cities tracked by the National Bureau of Statistics, the
agency said yesterday.  Volatile Markets  Graff is pushing ahead with the offering even after  Chow
Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929) , the world’s biggest listed
jewelry chain, dropped  33 percent  in the five months since its
Hong Kong debut. Chow Tai Fook currently trades at 12.4 times
estimated earnings for the year ending March 2013, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Stock-market volatility stemming from turmoil in the euro
region has curbed investor demand for new equity. Companies have
raised $1.4 billion in IPOs in Hong Kong this year, the lowest
amount for any similar period since 2003, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. With Europe’s debt crisis deepening, the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell into losses for the year yesterday.  The company plans to start trading on June 8, one of the
people with knowledge of the matter said. This is a day later
than was disclosed a term sheet sent to investors on May 7.  Proceeds from the share sale will be used partly to pay
back debt, according to the term sheet. Credit Suisse Group AG,
Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley
are managing the offering. N M Rothschild & Sons acted as
financial adviser.  Chow Tai Fook dropped 9.6 percent on May 16, the most since
its $2 billion IPO in December, as gold prices tumbled. Sales of
jewelery, watches and valuable gifts in Hong Kong rose 19
percent in March from a year earlier, slowing from 55 percent
growth in March 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  