-- Gupta’s Lawyer Seeks Victory Where Rajaratnam’s Failed
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/gupta-s-lawyer-seeks-victory-where-rajaratnam-s-failed.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, for his trial last year on insider-trading charges,
selected as his lawyer a combative ex-Marine who cursed at a
cameraman after court one day.  The jury, citing overwhelming evidence, voted to convict.  Rajat Gupta -- the ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
whose own insider-trading trial begins May 21 -- chose a lawyer
with a different style:  Gary Naftalis , an affable presence in
the elite  New York  white-collar defense bar who recently
attended a reception for a Rajaratnam prosecutor at his new law
firm and who socializes with the judge presiding over the Gupta
trial.  “Why is he so good? Because he’s very disarming,” said
Charles Carberry, a friend and a former federal prosecutor.
“Gary has a way of talking to people that’s non-
confrontational,” said Carberry, now a partner at  Jones Day  in
New York. “There’s nothing about him that reeks of arrogance.”  A jury in  Manhattan  will determine whether the 70-year-old
Naftalis’s low-key style wins Gupta the acquittal that eluded
Rajaratnam, who’s serving 11 years in  prison . Of almost 90
criminal trials last year in the federal district that includes
Manhattan, the Bronx and some suburban counties, all but about
eight ended in conviction, according to the office of U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , who’s prosecuting the case.  No Acquittals  Four of those convictions last year were in  insider-trading 
cases, including Rajaratnam’s. Sixty-six people have been
charged since August 2009 in the U.S. crackdown on illegal
tipping, and 59 have pleaded guilty or been convicted at a
trial. No one has won a not-guilty verdict. Some cases are
pending.  “It has been increasingly difficult to get acquittals in
white-collar cases,” Theodore Wells, co-chairman of the
litigation department at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP, told a gathering of defense lawyers on May 14.
“There’s more of an anti-corporate attitude” among jurors,
said Wells, who isn’t involved in Gupta’s case.  Gupta, who ran consulting firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to
2003 and also sat on the  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  board, is charged
with conspiracy and  securities fraud . Prosecutors say he gave
Rajaratnam material, nonpublic information about New York-based
Goldman Sachs and Cincinnati-based P&G, the world’s largest
consumer-products company. Securities fraud carries a maximum
20-year prison sentence.  ‘Illicit Profits’’  Tips included details of Goldman Sachs’s  earnings  in the
first quarter of 2007 and fourth quarter of 2008, as well as the
$5 billion investment in the bank by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  in September 2008, prosecutors said. The leaks
generated “illicit profits and loss avoidance” of more than
$23 million for Galleon, the Securities and Exchange Commission
said in a related lawsuit.  Gupta’s trial won’t be like Rajaratnam’s, which was built
on dozens of wiretapped phone calls in which the hedge fund co-
founder could be heard swapping tips. Former colleagues also
testified for the prosecution.  The Gupta jury will hear a circumstantial case, centered on
the timing of trades after conversations between the two men,
plus a smaller number of wiretapped phone calls. Prosecutors say
Rajaratnam can be heard on the tapes referring to Gupta without
naming him.  “We think the government has a lousy case,” Naftalis told
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in court April 16 in a failed bid
to exclude the wiretaps. In court papers, he has called the
indictment “a case without any direct evidence” and said other
Goldman Sachs employees may have tipped Rajaratnam.  Big Names  Naftalis, who is co-chairman of New York-based Kramer Levin
Naftalis & Frankel LLP, comes to Gupta’s defense after
representing some of the biggest names on  Wall Street .  His clients have included Michael Eisner, the former  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  CEO whom Naftalis successfully defended at a 2005
civil trial over claims that he breached his duty to
shareholders, and ex-Refco Inc. Chief Executive Officer Phillip Bennett, who is serving 16 years in prison after pleading guilty
in a $2.4 billion securities fraud.  In the early 1990s, Naftalis persuaded prosecutors not to
file criminal charges against Salomon Brothers in a bond-trading
scandal. He’s now defending Muriel Siebert, the founder of
Siebert Financial Corp., against civil claims of wrongful
termination by an ex-employee.  “He’s shown a knowledge of the Street, and he’s very
smart,” Siebert, the first woman to own a seat on the New York
Stock Exchange, said in an interview. “In our case, he knew the
discount business, what duties were involved. But I think he has
a general knowledge -- he’s not a fast-talking person.”  Not New  Nor is he new to insider-trading cases. In the mid-1980s,
Naftalis represented Robert Wilkis, a Lazard Freres & Co. banker
who came under scrutiny for illegal trades and for tipping
Dennis Levine, a managing director at Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc., about a takeover. After agreeing to plead guilty and
cooperate with prosecutors, Levine taped a call with Wilkis, who
pleaded guilty.  “He made his assessment that his client had no defense,”
Carberry, who was the prosecutor, said in an interview. Wilkis
didn’t return a call seeking comment on the case.  In 1987, Naftalis helped persuade prosecutors not to charge
his client Kidder Peabody & Co., which had been acquired by
General Electric Co. and would have been devastated by an
indictment, Carberry said. The brokerage faced potential
liability for the illegal trades of an employee, Martin Siegel,
who also pleaded guilty and who was represented by Naftalis’s
friend Rakoff.  New Jersey Native  A native of Newark,  New Jersey , Naftalis graduated from
 Rutgers University  and pursued a master’s degree in history at
 Brown University  before enrolling at New York’s Columbia Law
School, where he earned a degree in 1967. He went to work for
the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, where Rakoff was among his
colleagues.  The two have remained friends. In 2009, the judge
officiated at the wedding of one of Naftalis’s sons, and in
court the two sometimes trade friendly banter.  Naftalis has one son who is a Manhattan federal prosecutor
and a second about to be sworn in. Last week, when Naftalis
asked for a delay in proceedings on May 22 to attend the
ceremony, Rakoff suggested that he, Naftalis and the Gupta
prosecutor, Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , all go
together. Naftalis agreed.  Naftalis, who declined to comment for this article, tells
his clients he’s a hands-on litigator who will make all
decisions except one: whether to testify. A skier and fan of the
New York Mets baseball team and the New York Knicks basketball
team, he revels in the competition of a trial.  ‘Candy Store’  “I’m sort of like a kid in a candy store,” he said in a
January interview with lawdragon.com, a website for lawyers. “I
like it all, but I really like giving opening statements.”  Gregory Williams, a lawyer at Richards Layton & Finger PA
in Wilmington,  Delaware , watched Naftalis dissect rival claims
in the trial over whether Eisner and Walt Disney’s directors
violated their fiduciary duty by paying ex-President Michael Ovitz $140 million in severance.  “He disarms you with kindness, but he is extremely
effective,” said Williams, who represented Disney directors at
the trial. “He has an unassuming, laid-back style that is
extremely effective.”  Style alone didn’t win the Disney case, Williams said.
Naftalis was also well-prepared and agile in the courtroom, he
said. Carberry said two of Naftalis’s longtime partners, Alan Friedman and David Frankel, are also nimble litigators. Frankel
is joining in Gupta’s defense.  ‘Good Reception’  “Credibility is the key to being a lawyer,” Naftalis told
lawdragon.com. “If you make representations that turn out not
to be accurate, or if you take positions that are over the top
or not supported by the facts, you will not get a good
reception.”  Naftalis will push back when he must. At a May 16 hearing
in the Gupta case, he raised his voice and paced, calling a
prosecution argument “demonstrably incorrect.” And an
avuncular manner can mask his guile, as when he offhandedly
mentioned at the close of an April 20 hearing that the U.S. was
probing another Goldman Sachs employee for insider trading.  “He wins over jurors by his sensible approach,” said
Robert Morgenthau, who hired Naftalis as a federal prosecutor
when he was Manhattan U.S. attorney. Juries “instinctively”
trust him, said Morgenthau, who after nine years heading the
U.S. attorney’s office served for 35 years as Manhattan district
attorney.  Style Matters  Style matters, said Tom Dewey, a lawyer at New York’s Dewey
Pegno & Kramarsky LLP, who isn’t involved in the Gupta case.  John Dowd , Rajaratnam’s ex-Marine lawyer, brought a “no-
holds-barred, confrontational, fight-for-every-inch approach”
to combat multiple witnesses and wiretaps, Dewey said in an
interview. He sparred with witnesses at the Rajaratnam trial and
occasionally snapped at a prosecutor.  In Gupta’s case, where the evidence may be less concrete,
“a more low-key approach may well be warranted,” Dewey said.  Dowd declined to comment for this story, said Ben Harris, a
spokesman at his  law firm , Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld.  “In most criminal cases, the defendant does not testify,
so for that reason alone the style and presentation of the
defendant’s lawyer are enormously significant to a jury,” Dewey
said. “Gary is just as tough, but in a much more understated,
buttoned-down fashion.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 