-- Lilly, Jaguar Land Rover, Viacom: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-05-18T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/lilly-jaguar-land-rover-viacom-intellectual-property.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) 
won’t have an easier time gaining more of the market for blood
thinners dominated by  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Plavix after
the drug lost U.S. patent protection yesterday.  Lilly’s Effient and AstraZeneca’s Brilinta will be used
mostly by new patients who are beginning therapy, said Barbara
Ryan, an analyst with Deutsche Bank who has a buy rating on New
York-based Bristol-Myers’s stock. Plavix, and now the copycat
pills that will hit the market, are still expected to dominate.  “Managed care has made it more difficult in general for
the adoption of new products,” Ryan said in a telephone
interview. “Plavix has been around a while. It’s very
effective, it’s a safe drug. Effient and Brilinta are really
competing for new patient starts.”  More than 50 million people in the U.S. have taken Plavix
since it was approved by regulators in 1997, according to
Christina Trank, a Bristol-Myers spokeswoman. Now though, the
company is winding down promotion of the pill and stopped
advertising it last year.  Bristol-Myers said it will still push to have patients keep
taking the brand, and is offering a “Plavix Choice Program”
card that will let them get the medicine for $37 a month.  None of the newer blood thinners are expected to match the
$7.09 billion Plavix sold in 2011, according to  Seamus
Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. who follows all
three companies. Sanofi, based in Paris, reported $2.76 billion
in revenue last year from the drug, which it co-promotes with
Bristol-Myers.  Fernandez estimates Effient sales will peak in 2017 at $865
million, an increase from $303 million last year. Brilinta may
reach $1.77 billion by then. Lilly is based in Indianapolis and
AstraZeneca in  London .  Bristol-Myers has said it’s well prepared for the loss of
the drug, pointing to the company’s “string of pearls”
strategy to refill its pipeline with small and mid-size deals.
The drugmaker is interested in buying San Diego-based  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  and its diabetes drugs Bydureon and Byetta,
which generated more than $650 million in revenue last year,
Bloomberg reported on May 15.  Warner Chilcott Sues Watson Over Generic Contraceptive  Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX) , the maker of dermatology and women’s
health drugs, sued  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  to prevent it
from selling a generic version of its oral contraceptive Lo
Loestrin Fe.  Watson is seeking U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval to sell a copy of the low-dose contraceptive, according
to a complaint filed May 16 in federal court in Trenton, New
Jersey. Dublin-based  Warner Chilcott  said the Watson version
would infringe two patents and seeks a court order to prevent
sales until patents expire in July 2014 and February 2029.  The lawsuit follows Warner Chilcott’s announcement on April
30 that it is exploring options and holding preliminary talks
with buyers. Warner Chilcott had $2.7 billion in revenue last
year, with sales led by osteoporosis treatment Actonel, Asacol
for ulcerative colitis and Loestrin 24 FE, a low-dose birth-
control pill.  Under federal drug law, the filing of the lawsuit prevents
the FDA from granting Watson final approval for 30 months unless
a court rules in the generic-drug maker’s favor before then.  Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based
Watson, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Lo Loestrin Fe contains the active ingredients
norethindrone acetate and ethinyl estradiol.  The case is Warner Chilcott v. Watson Laboratories, 12-
cv-2928, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  STMicro Files Patent-Infringement Suit Against InvenSense  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  sued Sunnyvale, California-based
InvenSense Inc., for patent infringement May 16 in federal court
in San Francisco.  STMicroelectronics alleges that InvenSense, a maker of
microelectronic gyroscopes for consumer products, infringes nine
patents related to specialized microelectronic mechanical
systems, or MEMS.  According to the complaint, InvenSense has sold more than
110 million units of MEMS products, used in such devices as
smartphones, tablets, personal media players, game consoles,
still cameras and remote controls. InvenSense MEMS products
infringe the patents, STMicroelectronics claims.  STMicroelectronics, based in Geneva, asked the court for
money damages and an order barring future infringement of its
patents.  InvenSense didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is STMicroelectronics Inc. v.  InvenSense Inc. (INVN) , 12-
cv-02475, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Jaguar Objects to ‘Jaguar Shoes’ Name for London Art Venue  Jaguar Land Rover Plc, maker of Jaguar luxury cars, opposes
an arts collective’s use of the name “ Jaguar Shoes ” for its
London gallery and bar, the TimeOutLondon website  reported .  The automaker began proceedings in the U.K.’s Intellectual
Property Office, claiming the collective’s use of the name
damages the Gaydon, U.K.-based luxury car’s trademark, according
to TimeOutLondon.  The arts collective chose the name because the London-based
gallery operations are located in the storefront occupied in the
1970s by Jaguar Shoes, a footwear wholesaler, TimeOutLondon
reported.  Nick Letchford, co-founder of the gallery and bar, told
TimeOutLondon he was surprised by the automaker’s actions.  Guangzhou Regains Control of ‘Wong Lo Kat’ Herbal Tea Trademark  Guangzhou Pharmaceutical Co. (874)  regained the use of its “Wong
Lo Kat” trademark for herbal tea as the result of a trade
arbitration, the EastDay.com English-language Chinese news
website  reported .  The ruling, issued last week by the China International
Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission, bars JDB Group’s use
of the term, according to EastDay.com.  The commission found two trademark-leasing agreements
between the two companies to be invalid, EastDay.com reported.  Regaining control of the “ Wong Lo Kat ” mark will enable
Guangzhou Pharmaceutical to diversify its herbal tea products,
according to EastDay.com.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Viacom Settles Dispute With Time Warner Cable Over IPad Viewing  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , the owner of  MTV , Comedy Central and the
Paramount film studio, agreed to resolve a legal dispute with
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , allowing cable customers to see Viacom
shows on devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  “All of Viacom’s programming will now be available to Time
Warner Cable subscribers for in-home viewing via Internet
protocol-enabled devices such as iPads,” the companies said
yesterday in a joint statement posted on Viacom’s website. Time
Warner Cable won’t be paying more to stream shows on the
gadgets, according to two people familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because the terms are private.  Viacom sued in 2011, seeking an order blocking Time Warner
Cable from distributing Viacom programming on portable
electronics. Time Warner Cable also sued, seeking a ruling from
the court that its contract with Viacom allowed the distribution
of content on the devices.  The case underscored tensions between media companies and
pay-television providers over how television content can be used
in the iPad era. Consumers are increasingly watching TV on
computers, tablets and other mobile devices, and cable companies
are eager to accommodate them.  Last August, Viacom resolved a similar lawsuit against
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , which had been distributing Viacom’s
programming on the iPad. The companies said Cablevision could
continue to run Viacom’s programs on the devices.  Viacom, controlled by Chairman Sumner Redstone, reported
better-than-anticipated profit last quarter on increased fees
from pay-TV operators. The company’s media networks unit, which
contributed 92 percent of operating profit in fiscal 2011, saw a
15 percent increase in domestic fees for its cable networks.
U.S. ad sales rose 1 percent from a year earlier, following a 3
percent decline in the previous quarter.  Time Warner Cable also settled a dispute over Viacom’s
Country Music Television. The cable provider will continue to
carry the channel, the companies said in the May 16 statement.  The case is Viacom International v. Time Warner Cable,
11-02387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Jones Day Adds DLA Piper’s John Kinton to IP Practice Group  Jones Day hired John Kinton for its intellectual-property
practice, the Washington-based firm said in a  statement .  Kinton , a litigator, joins from Chicago’s DLA Piper LLP. He
has represented clients in patent disputes in federal court and
before the U.S. International Trade Commission, which has the
power to bar imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.  He also has served as general counsel for Charybdis
Technologies Inc. and, before he was a lawyer, as a patent
engineer and program manager for  Boeing Co. (BA)  His clients’
technologies have included computer hardware and software, water
and wastewater treatment systems, emergency vehicle light bars,
disk-drive technologies, JPEG encoder technology and
semiconductor-manufacturing processes.  Kinton has an undergraduate degree from Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute and a law degree from St. Louis
University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 