-- India May Export Wheat to Iran as State Inventories Swell
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-05-18T14:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/india-may-export-wheat-to-iran-as-state-inventories-swell-2-.html
India, the world’s second-biggest
wheat grower, is considering exports from government stockpiles
to countries including  Iran  to make room for a record harvest, a
food ministry official said.  The prime minister or a panel of ministers will decide, the
official said, asking not to be identified because of government
rules. He declined to elaborate.  Wheat exports from state inventories will need to be
subsidized as the government’s procurement cost is higher than
international prices, T.P.S Narang, an adviser at the New Delhi-
based grain exporter  Emmsons International Ltd. (EMSI) , said by phone
from the city today.  Iran, facing international sanctions over its nuclear
program, is seeking to buy rice, wheat and raw sugar from India,
Yahya Ale-Eshagh, president of the Tehran Chamber of Commerce,
Industries and Mines, said in an interview in New Delhi on May
7.  The country needs 1 million metric tons of raw sugar and
about 1.25 million tons of rice from overseas markets, Yahya
said. The Indian and Iranian governments are negotiating quality
norms for possible wheat supplies, he said.  “The two nations are yet to sort out quality issues,”
Narang said.  India  is considering a proposal to export wheat from
government stockpiles and to sell additional grains locally at
below-market rates to make space for new crops, Food Minister
K.V. Thomas said on May 10.  State reserves of rice and wheat jumped 20 percent to 71.12
million tons as of May 1 from a year earlier, the Food Corp. of
India estimates.  Record Production  The wheat crop will probably reach a record 90.2 million
tons in the year to June 30, up from 86.9 million tons a year
earlier, while the rice harvest may gain to a record 103.4
million tons from 96 million tons, the farm ministry says.  The country scrapped export bans on non-basmati rice and
wheat in September after more than three years.  State Trading Corp. invited bids on May 11 from overseas
buyers for exports from Food Corp.’s reserves for shipment in
the six months ending Dec. 31. The trading company plans to ship
the grain from Kandla with a minimum vessel-load of 20,000 tons
and from Mundra with a minimum load of 30,000 tons, it said.  India’s government, the country’s single biggest buyer of
food grains, has purchased 30.34 million tons of wheat from
farmers as of today, compared with 23.96 million tons a year
earlier, the food ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  