-- Investment Bank Revenue May Fall 24% in Quarter, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-05-18T15:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/investment-bank-revenue-may-fall-24-in-quarter-jpmorgan-says.html
Investment banking revenue may fall
24 percent in the second quarter as the effect of the  European
Central Bank ’s 1 trillion-euro ($1.3 trillion) of loans to the
banking system wears off,  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. analysts said.  Revenue from fixed-income, currencies and commodities
trading may fall 32 percent while income from equities may drop
14 percent from the first quarter, analysts including London-
based Kian Abouhossein said in a report to clients today.  The ECB in December and February offered banks unlimited
three-year loans after funding markets froze and yields on
southern European government debt hit euro-era records. The move
helped to reduce yields on both bank and government bonds. The
“positive momentum” generated by the Long Term Refinancing
Operation slowed in April,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Financial
Officer  Stefan Krause  said April 26.  “Without LTRO liquidity and credit spreads widening again,
we expect overall investment banking revenues are in an
accelerated seasonal quarter-two/quarter-one decline due to
material client flow activity slowdown,” the JPMorgan analysts
said. The “deteriorating macro newsflow is leading to increased
 risk aversion ,” leading to a decline in fixed income,
currencies and commodities income, they said.       Greece  will
go the polls on June 17 after an election on May 6 failed to
produce a government. The country’s credit rating was reduced
one level by Fitch Ratings yesterday amid concern it won’t
muster the political support needed to remain a member of the
17-nation euro area. Almost $4 trillion has been wiped from
global equity markets this month amid mounting concern the
country will have to leave the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  