-- Irish Banks May Tip State Into Bailout 2, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-05-18T13:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/irish-banks-may-tip-state-into-bailout-2-deutsche-bank-says.html
Ireland may be forced into a second
bailout by mounting loan losses in its  banking system , according
to Deutsche Bank AG.  Ireland’s bailed-out banks may need capital to cover as
much as 4 billion euros ($5.1 billion) more bad-loan provisions
than assumed in stress tests last year, Deutsche Bank analysts
David Lock and Jason Napier said in a report published today.  “A new, even modest, increase in  capital requirements 
could deter sovereign investor participation and tip the balance
in favor of the sovereign requiring a second loan program,” the
Deutsche Bank analysts said.  Ireland’s government, which sought a bailout in 2010, has
injected about 63 billion euros into its banks in the past three
years. The government’s plan for new personal insolvency laws
introduces risks even as politicians and the financial regulator
seek to avoid widespread residential mortgage debt forgiveness,
Deutsche Bank said.  “Although resilient during 2009 and 2010, mortgage arrears
have risen sharply over the past year,  house prices  are
continuing to fall, market liquidity is limited, and over half
of customers are now in negative equity,” the analysts said.
“We fear the size of negative equity balances for some mortgage
holders may greatly reduce their incentive to cooperate, pushing
them towards default.”  Ireland’s largest 10 consumer lenders, including four
overseas-owned banks, lost around 117.8 billion euros on soured
loans in the four years through December, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News. Deutsche Bank today downgraded  Bank
of Ireland (BKIR) , the only Irish lender guaranteed in 2008 that has
avoided state control, to sell from buy.  ‘Substantial Buffer’  Speaking at  Bloomberg Link ’s Ireland Economic Summit in
Dublin on May 16, Michael Torpey, who helps manage the
government’s bank stakes, said that the country’s lenders have a
“substantial buffer” of capital to withstand growing mortgage
arrears. Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said in an interview at
the time that the banks “as of today” don’t need any more
capital.  The current aid program is due to run out at the end of
next year, and the country’s debt agency has said it hopes to
start selling treasury bills within the next three months, as a
step towards regaining full  market access .  “We do not envisage a second bailout,” a spokesman for
Noonan said today in a telephone interview. “We’re meeting all
our program targets and are working towards getting back into
the markets in 2013.”  The yield on Irish October 2020 bonds rose 4 basis points
to 7.41 percent. While Irish borrowing costs have risen as the
Greek political crisis unfolded this month, it’s still about
half the euro-era record of 14.1 percent in July.  Greek Events  “Ireland has made huge progress over the last year. It is
really a pity what is happening in  Greece  is spoiling all
this,” said former European Central Bank Executive Board Member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi in an interview with Dublin-based Newstalk
radio aired today. “Without the Greek events, I think Ireland
would be able to come back to the markets.”  The government said voters need to approve a European Union
stability-pact referendum on May 31 in order to access the
permanent euro-area bailout fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, if needed.  Some 62 percent of Irish people who expressed a preference
intend to vote in favor of the compact, Paddy Power Plc, the
Dublin-based bookmaker said today, citing a poll carried out by
Red C, the market research firm.  Ireland may get a second aid package, even if voters reject
the treaty, economists at Citigroup Inc. in  London  said today.  “We believe a second program would be forthcoming if
requested, probably initially without private sector involvement
unless the Irish government itself insisted that PSI is needed,
which is unlikely in our view,” said Citigroup economists
including Juergen Michels and  Michael Saunders  in a note. “With
Ireland’s high government debt level and low potential growth,
the risk of eventual government debt restructuring (PSI,
Official Sector Involvement or both) also is likely to
persist.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  