-- Liverpool Includes Guardiola, Capello on Managers’ List: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-18T06:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/liverpool-includes-guardiola-capello-on-managers-list-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Liverpool’s List  Liverpool has compiled a list of as many as eight potential
managers, including Pep Guardiola, Fabio Capello and  Roberto
Martinez , as the club seeks  Kenny Dalglish ’s successor, the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  Principal owner John W. Henry, chairman  Tom Werner  and
Managing Director  Ian Ayre  compiled a lineup also featuring
Jurgen Klopp, Frank de Boer, Andre Villas-Boas, Didier Deschamps
and Brendan Rodgers, the Telegraph said. There is no preferred
candidate at this stage, the newspaper added.  Prior Approach     Former Chelsea manager Villas-Boas held talks with
Liverpool owner Fenway Sports Group about replacing Dalglish
prior to his firing two days ago, the  Daily Express reported .  Villas-Boas’s expression of interest in taking charge of
the club may have prompted the decision to terminate Dalglish’s
contract, the Express added.  Capello Eyes Chelsea  Capello, the former England manager, wants the Chelsea job
and is even prepared to join the Blues on a one-year contract to
allow them to pursue outgoing Barcelona coach Guardiola after
his sabbatical, the  Sun reported .  Capello has told advisers to Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich 
that he wants to work for a top club, the Sun said. Abramovich
is unconvinced that interim manager Roberto Di Matteo is the
long-term solution, the newspaper added.  Van Persie Delay  Robin van Persie  indicated that he won’t sign a new Arsenal
contract in the immediate future as he waits to see which of his
suitors, a group that includes Manchester City and Juventus,
will make an official offer for him, the  Guardian reported .  Van Persie  traveled to the Netherlands yesterday to join
his national team for its Euro 2012 preparations and Arsenal
manager  Arsene Wenger  will remain in contact with the striker,
whose contract has about 12 months to run, the Guardian added.  City’s Chiellini Bid  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  had a 16 million-
pound bid for Juventus defender Giorgio Chiellini rejected by
the Italian champion, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Juventus is expecting City to return with an improved offer
for the 27-year-old center-back, who can also play at left-back,
the newspaper added.  Solskjaer Shortlisted  Former Manchester United striker Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is on
the shortlist to be Aston Villa’s new manager, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  Solskjaer, who guided Molde to its first Norwegian title in
his first season as manager, is on Villa owner Randy Lerner’s
radar along with Martinez, Norwich’s Paul Lambert and Brendan Rodgers of Swansea, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  