-- Ivory Coast Cocoa Premium Is Seen at as Much as 85 Pounds
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-18T15:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/ivory-coast-cocoa-premium-is-seen-at-as-much-as-85-pounds.html
Ivory Coast  cocoa from the season
starting in October was at a premium of as much as 85 pounds
($134) a metric ton on speculation shipments may be delayed.  The premium for Ivorian beans in  Europe  to the price on the
NYSE Liffe exchange in London ranged from 45 pounds, depending
on the shipment period and on the quality agreed, according to
three traders with direct knowledge of the sales, who declined
to be identified because they aren’t authorized to speak to the
media. A higher premium was being charged for shipments in the
fourth quarter, the traders said.  There are concerns the implementation of a new selling
system in Ivory Coast will lead to “substantial” delays in
exports,  Jonathan Parkman , co-head of agriculture at broker
Marex Spectron Group in London, said last month.  Ivory Coast, the biggest grower, plans to sell 70 percent
of its 2012-13 crop before the harvest starts as part of wider
industry reforms. The so-called forward sales started on Jan. 31
even as some details of the reform still need to be finalized.  An agreement with cocoa exporters over transportation and
handling fees will be reached by Sept. 15, Agriculture Minister
Mamadou Sangafowa Coulibaly said this week.  Cocoa from the current crop in Ivory Coast is not trading
in Europe as the main crop has ended, the traders said. The
smaller of two annual harvests, known as the mid-crop, is “off
to a slow start,” according to Laurent Pipitone, director of
the economic and statistics division at the International Cocoa
Organization in  London .  Beans from the current crop in  Ghana , the second-largest
producer, were trading in Europe at a premium of 75 pounds to 85
pounds a ton, unchanged from last week, the traders said. Cocoa
from the new crop was at a premium of 90 pounds to 100 pounds a
ton, from 90 pounds to 95 pounds a ton last week.  Premiums for the new crop in Ghana may be supported by
potential export delays in Ivory Coast, the traders said.  Cocoa for July delivery rose 1.6 percent to 1,552 pounds a
ton by 3:34 p.m. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 