-- Market Volatility Prompts Warning From Japan to S. Korea
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-05-18T09:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/japan-s-korea-worried-about-currency-moves-as-stocks-slide.html
Financial markets are becoming
unhooked from economic fundamentals, officials warned in  Japan 
and South Korea, as policy makers monitor the dangers posed by
any Greek exit from the euro region.  “We’ve seen the yen appreciate rapidly from the low-80s to
the mid-79 range over a short period of time, those are rough
movements,” Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said at a press
conference in Tokyo today. “We will watch the  currency market 
with more caution and take appropriate action in a timely
manner” if needed, he said.  About $4 trillion has been wiped from global equity markets
this month as Europe’s deepening debt crisis threatens the
global recovery. European leaders are now openly talking about a
possible Greek euro exit after the country’s attempts to form a
ruling coalition broke down, prompting Malaysian central bank
Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz to say such an event could cause
contagion comparable to the Asian financial crisis.  Asian stocks slid today, erasing this year’s gains, and
 South Korea ’s won weakened after Moody’s Investors Service
lowered debt ratings of 16 Spanish banks and a gauge of U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly contracted. The yen climbed to its
highest level since February yesterday against the dollar and
yields on 10-year  government bonds  fell to their lowest since
July 2003.  Won’s Slide  The won had its biggest weekly slide in almost eight months
and the nation’s Kospi index of stocks dropped 3.4 percent. A
weaker won could add to inflationary pressure as imported goods
become more expensive, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan told
reporters in  Seoul  today.  “The range of fluctuation is excessive,” Bahk said when
asked about today’s market movements while noting that economic
fundamentals “are strong.” There are no plans for new measures
to encourage stability in the markets at the moment, he said
later in the day.  In Japan, the yen traded at 79.32 against the dollar in
Tokyo after touching 79.14 yesterday.  The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  declined almost 3 percent and the yield on benchmark 10-
year government debt fell to 0.83 percent.  BOJ Operations  Demand for the relative safety of government bonds has
disrupted the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s operations this week, with its so-
called Rinban operation to buy domestic government debt from the
market meeting a shortfall for the first time since February
2006. The BOJ accepted 174.7 billion yen ($2.2 billion) in
offers to sell debt with less than one year to maturity, below
the central bank’s target to buy 310 billion yen of the
securities.  Japan’s government raised its assessment of the economy
today while warning that downside risks include sharp
fluctuations in financial markets and a slowdown in global
growth amid  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Greece ’s credit rating was downgraded one level by  Fitch
Ratings  yesterday on concerns the country won’t be able to
muster the political support needed to sustain its membership in
the euro area as leaders began campaigning ahead of the second
national vote in six weeks.  “Market participants have used the heightened uncertainty
to raise volatility in financial markets,” Philippine central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in an e-mail to Bloomberg
News today. “Risk appetite is weak and flight-to-quality trades
will likely be prevalent in the market.”  Monitoring Effects  The Philippine central bank is monitoring “possible
effects of deleveraging” in Europe and other economies that may
affect domestic funding, Tetangco said. The Southeast Asian
nation has “ample” domestic liquidity and “well-capitalized and
prudently managed banks,” he said.  “We have room in our enhanced policy tool kit to respond
should there be excesses in market movements, and should such
movements begin to put our inflation target at risk,” Tetangco
said, adding that there may be more volatility in local markets.
The developments in Greece this week have deepened the risk of
contagion, he said.  Thailand ’s banking system has 2.5 trillion baht ($80
billion) of liquidity, five times more than required, central
bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul told reporters today. The
Bank of Thailand doesn’t see a need to add additional liquidity,
which could fuel inflationary pressures, he said.  Investors are shifting to low-risk assets amid concern on
Europe’s debt woes and a weakening in the baht isn’t unusual,
Prasarn said May 16. The  Thai baht  is down 0.5 percent this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  