-- Japan Aluminum Buyers Facing Highest Premiums Since 1996
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-05-18T02:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/japan-aluminum-buyers-said-to-face-highest-premiums-since-1996.html
Aluminum buyers in  Japan , Asia’s
biggest importer, were asked to accept a 57 percent increase in
fees starting in July, as supply decreased after smelters cut
output and  China  boosted purchases.  A producer offered to sell aluminum at $200 a metric ton
over the London Metal Exchange cash price for the three months
through September, an increase from the $127 surcharge this
quarter, said three executives involved in the negotiations.
They declined to be identified because the talks were private.
Other producers have yet to make offers, they said.  Premiums are poised to surge as demand from the auto and
construction industries grows amid rebuilding in Japan after
last year’s earthquake and tsunami. The nation’s  gross domestic
product  rose an annualized 4.1 percent last quarter from the
final three months of 2011, exceeding all but seven of 27
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, a government
report showed yesterday.  “Higher premiums threaten users’ earnings as they’re
having difficulty passing on higher raw-material costs to
consumers amid deflation,” said Naohiro Niimura, a partner at
research company Market Risk Advisory in  Tokyo .  If agreed, the fee would be the highest since Japanese
buyers began meeting the bulk of their needs through long-term
contracts in 1996, surpassing the previous record of $125 to
$130 for the first quarter of 2010. The biggest suppliers to
Japan include Rio Tinto Group,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)   Japan’s shipments of rolled-aluminum products are forecast
to gain 2.8 percent to 2.06 million tons for the year to March
31, 2013, the highest level in five years, the Japan Aluminium
Association forecast in March.  The increase in aluminum fees would boost costs for
fabricators such as  Furukawa-Sky Aluminum Corp. (5741) , Japan’s largest
mill. Spokesman Ryu Sawachi said he couldn’t confirm the premium.  The fee is applied to so-called Good Western-grade aluminum
ingot. It includes freight and insurance costs, and reflects
local supply and demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  