-- Japan Signs Information Security Agreement With Australia
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-05-18T04:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/japan-signs-information-security-agreement-with-australia-1-.html
Japan  and Australia signed an
agreement enabling them to share information affecting national
security, as both countries seek to counter  China ’s influence.  The accord was signed in Tokyo yesterday by Australian
Foreign Minister Bob Carr and Japanese counterpart Koichiro Gemba, the Japanese Foreign Ministry said in a statement. It
sets out procedures for protecting information and will also
enable the two countries to share data more freely with the U.S.  Japan has sought to strengthen security ties with
neighboring nations over the past few years in the face of
China’s growing military might. Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu
Fujimura told reporters March 5 in Tokyo that Japan was
“closely watching” China’s rising military spending and was
seeking greater transparency in its Asian neighbor’s outlays.  “China has grown bigger, putting everyone on their guard,
so I think that is why they are planning to join forces,” said
Ikuo Kayahara, a retired major-general in Japan’s military and
emeritus professor at Takushoku University in Tokyo. “But of
course they can never mention this in their diplomatic or
security treaties, so they refer to maintaining regional
security or dealing with  North Korea , which is very convenient
for Japan.”  China announced March 4 that it plans to increase defense
spending 11.2 percent this year to about 670 billion  yuan  ($106
billion).  ‘Closest Partner’  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  called Japan her
nation’s “closest partner in Asia” during a visit in April
2011 after the record earthquake and tsunami devastated Japan’s
northeastern regions. Gillard and President  Barack Obama  signed
a defense agreement in November to deploy U.S. Marines on
Australian bases starting this year.  The Japanese government has described Australia as its
second-most important security partner, and yesterday’s pact is
its fourth after agreements with the U.S., the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization and  France .  Japan is Australia’s second-biggest trading partner,
according to government figures that showed merchandise exports
totaling A$4.05 billion ($4 billion) in March and imports valued
at A$1.68 billion. In 2007 the two countries signed a
groundbreaking agreement on military cooperation in areas
including counter-terrorism and marine security, Japan’s first
such deal with a country other than the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  