-- Japan Consumer Agency Says ‘Complete Gacha’ Game Feature Illegal
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-05-18T09:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/japan-consumer-agency-says-complete-gacha-game-feature-illegal.html
Japan  ruled a sales method used by
online social-gaming operators in the country is illegal,
following scrutiny by regulators who said it resulted in charges
that were in some cases excessive.  Japan’s  Consumer Affairs Agency  plans to ban the method,
known as “complete gacha,” under a law against unjustifiable
premiums and misleading representations from July, it said in a
statement today. Social-gaming companies including Tokyo-based
 DeNA Co. (2432)  and  Gree Inc. (3632)  have already said they plan to abandon
the feature by May 31.  The companies  plunged  in Tokyo trading earlier this month
when the consumer agency announced it was considering
restrictions on the sales method, saying it entices users with
an appeal similar to gambling. Gree, Japan’s second-biggest
social-gaming operator, said May 9 it may revise its  earnings
estimates  if necessary as a result of eliminating the feature.  Kazuyuki Katagiri, a section chief at the consumer agency,
declined to say which social games breach the law during a press
conference in  Tokyo  today.  Gree fell 5.9 percent to 1,365 yen at the close in Tokyo
trading, extending its drop this year to 49 percent. DeNA,
Japan’s biggest social-games company, declined 2.5 percent and
has dropped 16 percent this year.  In “complete gacha,” users pay about 300 yen ($3.78)
apiece for virtual tokens that can be converted to a more
valuable virtual item if the player obtains the right
combination or a “complete” set. The items allow users to make
faster progress in games.  DeNA, Gree and four other operators formed a group to
improve the social-gaming environment in March and are imposing
a ban on “real money trade,” where users sell those rare items
to other players, the companies  said  April 23. The operators
have limited monthly fees for users who are 19 years old or
younger.  Gacha is the Japanese word for vending machines that
dispense miniature toys or prizes in plastic capsules without
showing the contents beforehand. Buyers take a chance they will
receive a desired item after inserting coins and turning a knob.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  