-- Jefferson County Can’t Pay GO Bonds Without New Tax, Lawyer Says
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-18T19:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/jefferson-county-can-t-pay-go-bonds-without-new-tax-lawyer-says.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , can’t
fully repay $205 million in general-obligation bonds without
raising taxes, the county’s bankruptcy lawyer said, threatening
investors with losses not seen in the U.S. since the Great
Depression.  Since the 1930s, no large U.S. county, city or town has
used the power of a federal court to force investors to take
less than they are owed, lawyers and municipal-debt analysts
said.  The failure of the state legislature this week to authorize
$60 million in taxes will add a year to how long Jefferson
County will remain in bankruptcy, Kenneth Klee, the county’s
bankruptcy attorney, said in a telephone interview today. Unless
the county can get permission from the state to reinstitute a
$60 million wage tax struck down by the courts, the county won’t
have enough revenue to pay its general-obligation bonds in full,
Klee said.  The bankruptcy in Alabama’s most populous county is forcing
investors to add local politics to the list of risks they
evaluate before buying municipal bonds,  Richard Ciccarone , Chief
Research Officer at McDonnell Investment Management LLC in  Oak
Brook ,  Illinois , said in an interview today.  “In a crisis you don’t want to get to a point where a
government has to choose between police and fire service and
debt service,” Ciccarone said. “The fact is, in a crisis you
have to rely on the political stability of the government.”  Sewer Debt  Jefferson County entered the largest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy in November after local and state officials and
creditors failed to implement an agreement to cut the county’s
sewer debt by about $1 billion. The county owes creditors about
$4.2 billion, including more than $3 billion in bonds related to
the sewer system, according to court records.  Investors have long known the sewer debt probably won’t be
repaid in full, mainly because it is only backed by monthly
sewer fees, and not guaranteed by county or state tax payers,
Klee said. Up to now, the county had planned to fully repay
about $205 million in general-obligation bonds, even though it
missed a $15 million interest payment, Klee said.  Without new revenue the county will be stuck in bankruptcy
until early 2014, at the latest, Klee said. To exit bankruptcy,
the county must win approval from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett for a so-called plan of adjustment that balances revenue
with debt.  Up to Judge  In that plan, the county will ask Bennett to reduce the
principal on the general-obligation bonds, Klee said. He
declined to say how much the county will attempt to pay.  A failure to repay the principal would shock the  bond
market ,  James Spiotto , who represents some of Jefferson County’s
creditors, said in an interview today. Spiotto, a bankruptcy
attorney with the law firm of Chapman & Cutler LLP, has studied
the history of municipal bond defaults.  He said he cannot identify any large municipalities that
haven’t fully repaid the principal on their debt since the Great
Depression in the 1930s. In that era, about 4,000 municipalities
defaulted leading to about 1 percent, or about 40, not fully
repaying the debt.  Now, investors are starting to ask how far cash-strapped
local governments will go to pay their debts.  “When you say it is backed by your full faith and credit
does that mean you are going to use everything in your power to
raise taxes and raise revenue to repay your debt?” Spiotto
said.  Alabama Legislature  The Alabama Legislature ended its annual session on May 16
without passing a bill to give Jefferson County legal authority
to bring back a wage tax struck down by the state  Supreme Court .  The legislative delegation from Jefferson hasn’t been able
to agree on a solution, as lawmakers are divided between those
opposing taxes and who oppose additional cuts to services that
would affect low-income residents.  National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., which insures
about $96 million of Jefferson County’s general-obligation
bonds, will make sure bondholders receive their principal and
interest payments on time, spokesman  Kevin Brown  said in an
interview today.  The county of 660,000, home to Birmingham, will miss
another interest payment in October, Klee said. County officials
have dismissed 800 employees and reduced services. They say they
need a state law to allow them to raise taxes to close a $40
million shortfall.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  