-- Jury Weighs John Edwards’s Tale of Self-Admitted Egotism
-- B y   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2012-05-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/john-edwards-rose-and-fell-in-a-tale-of-self-admitted-egotism-.html
John Edwards  campaigned for president
with a tale of “two Americas,” one rich, one poor, and vowed
to bridge them.  It turns out there also were two John Edwards.  A man of Southern mill-town roots whose talent as a trial
lawyer made him a millionaire, and then a politician with a gift
for wooing voters far from home, has placed his public
reputation and future in the hands of a jury.  The judgment on the  Democratic Party ’s 2004 vice
presidential nominee and former one-term senator from North
Carolina will determine whether Johnny Reid Edwards, 58, merely
shamed himself and his family in a sexual affair hidden from his
dying wife with the help of rich benefactors, or broke the law.  “I don’t think there is a lot of thirst for him going to
jail, and that’s what it comes down to,” said J.F. “Ferrel”
Guillory, director of the Program on Public Life at the
University of  North Carolina  at  Chapel Hill . “Is he a sinner?
Yes. Is he a criminal? Maybe not.”  The federal government’s case centered on more than
$700,000 in “Bunny Money” that an heiress, Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, now 101 years old, paid for the expenses of Edwards’s
mistress. The government argued that Edwards violated campaign-
financing laws in the undisclosed expenses of Rielle Hunter, who
bore their child, Frances Quinn Hunter, in 2008.  The jury in Greensboro, North Carolina, began deliberations
yesterday and recessed for the weekend without a verdict. It’s
expected to resume its work May 21.  ‘Two Americas’  Edwards, with an oratorical flair and bootstraps success
story, won election to the  U.S. Senate  in 1998, at age 45,
defeating Republican Lauch Faircloth. Vice President  Al Gore 
considered Edwards for the No. 2 spot when he ran for president
in 2000.  “Today, under  George W. Bush , there are two Americas, not
one,”  Edwards said  in  Iowa  in December 2003, during his first
run for the presidency, with a line that became his campaign’s
signature. “One America that does the work, another America
that reaps the reward, one favored, the other forgotten, one
privileged, the other burdened.”  Edwards could have won his party’s presidential nomination
in 2004. He was surging in public opinion polls on the eve of
the Iowa caucuses. With another week of campaigning there,
analysts agreed, he could have upstaged Senator  John Kerry  of
 Massachusetts  and ridden that momentum to the nomination. By
campaign’s end, Kerry selected Edwards as his running mate.  Liaison Exposed  Edwards, who fashioned himself in the Bill Clinton mold of
a Southern, centrist Democrat, was making his second bid for the
party’s nomination in 2008 when his sexual liaison with Hunter,
who had been hired as a campaign videographer, was exposed. His
wife, Elizabeth, battling  breast cancer , has since died.  In the spotlight of a widely covered trial revealing the
extent to which a candidate went to conceal an infidelity that
could have ruined his election campaign, the cinematic nature of
his political rise has been obscured.  The courtroom victories of the millworker’s son included a
$25 million settlement with a manufacturer after a little girl
was severely injured by a swimming pool drain. It was, at the
time, North Carolina’s largest personal injury verdict. He
recounted that story in detail in his book, “Four Trials.”  There was irony, too, in a candidate making a populist
appeal to two Americas and building a 28,000-square-foot home at
the time.  In his campaigns, Edwards drew on a Southern tradition of
story-telling infused with his own understanding of success and
tragedy. His son, Wade, had died at 16 in an automobile accident
in 1996 on the way to the family beach house near North
Carolina’s Outer Banks.  Hugging Wade  He also confided something about that story with Kerry,
which, in turn, gave the Democratic nominee qualms about him.  Bob Shrum, an adviser to Kerry’s campaign, recounted in a
2007 book that Edwards told Kerry he was going to say something
he hadn’t told anyone else: After his son died, “he climbed
onto the slab at the funeral home, laid there and hugged his
body, and promised that he’d do all he could to make life better
for people, to live up to Wade’s ideals of service.”  Kerry, Shrum wrote, told him that Edwards had recounted the
same story, in almost the same words, a year or two before.  The personal story of a self-made son of the South
resonated with Democrats taking their first measure of the man.
His television ads in  Wisconsin  showed pictures of the little
pink house in Seneca,  South Carolina , where he lived as a boy.
Everywhere he went, he spoke in the impassioned turns of phrase
of a polished trial lawyer about the divide between the two
Americas of haves and have-nots, and he pledged to unite them.  ‘A Great Family’  “He comes from a great family like many of us in the
South, whose families were not affluent,” Roy Barnes, a former
governor of  Georgia , said during the 2004 campaign. “He’s got
the intelligence, the grit, as we call it in the South, to get
elected.” He added: “But the reason I’m for John Edwards is,
he can beat  George Bush .”  Kerry and Edwards lost to incumbents Bush and Vice
President  Dick Cheney  in the 2004 election.  That didn’t stop Edwards. He set out again for his party’s
nomination in 2008, with Elizabeth by his side delivering news
of her recurring cancer and determination to fight for her life
while her husband fought for the nomination. The campaign ended
in tabloid revelations of his secret mistress and a campaign
aide claiming paternity.  Even then, Edwards was holding out an endorsement for his
party’s nominee in a bid to leverage a job in the next
administration, perhaps attorney general.  ‘Egotism, Narcissism’  “I went from being a senator, a young senator, to being
considered for vice president, running for president, being a
vice presidential candidate and become a national public
figure,” Edwards said on ABC News “Nightline” on Aug. 8,
2008. “All of which fed a self-focus, an egotism, a narcissism
that leads you to believe that you can do whatever you want.
You’re invincible. And there will be no consequences.”  Edwards was indicted in June on charges of using illegal
campaign donations to conceal his mistress from voters.  In the trial on the charges that Edwards accepted $925,000
to cover up the affair and save his campaign, jurors have
learned of not only the Bunny Money, but also $28,000 that
Edwards supporter  Fred Baron , a Texas lawyer now deceased, spent
on a BMW automobile for Hunter, who maintained a costly
lifestyle in hiding.  Andrew Young, a former Edwards campaign aide and father of
three who initially agreed to claim Hunter’s child as his own,
has testified about accepting more than $900,000 from two
wealthy donors to cover Hunter’s expenses.  Another Judgment  Members of his own party have abandoned him, and
Representative Walter Jones, a North Carolina Republican, says
he is “not surprised” by Edwards’ downfall.  “I’ve thought for a long time that the former senator has
put himself in this position because of arrogance,” Jones said.
“I thought from the first time that I saw him on TV that he was
a slick attorney.”  Whatever the verdict of the jury, Edwards faces another
judgment following a trial bannered on cable news.  “I don’t think there’s much likelihood of a political
redemption,” the University of North Carolina’s Guillory said.  “Part of this is the old story that the cover-up, in some
ways, is worse than the crime.” He added, “I think people
understand that if you’re going to have an affair you’re going
to try to cover it up. That’s the nature of the enterprise.
Where is the line with Edwards? There was so much lying.”  Said Guillory, “I don’t know anyone in North Carolina who
would rally to an Edwards campaign again. It’s been a
disillusioning experience here.”  ‘It’s Over’  Edwards’s hopes of any political revival are slim, said
 Darrell West , vice president of governance studies at the
 Brookings Institution  in  Washington .  “It’s over,” West said in an interview. “Even if he is
exonerated legally, he is not politically or morally.”  Still, Edwards may seek to remain in public life. “He is
somebody who has been in public service for a long time and
views himself as a change agent,” West said. “So it’s hard to
see that he would be satisfied retreating to a life of
anonymity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tackett in Washington at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net . 