-- JPMorgan May Lose $5 Billion on Derivatives, WSJ Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-18T08:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/jpmorgan-may-lose-5-billion-on-derivatives-wsj-reports.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s loss from
derivatives trading may widen to $5 billion, the Wall Street
Journal reported.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  personally approved the
strategy that led to the trades, without monitoring how they
were executed, the newspaper said, citing people familiar with
the matter that it didn’t identify. His failure to closely
regulate that activity caused resentment among executives whose
departments face tighter oversight, according to the Journal.  JPMorgan last week announced a $2 billion trading loss on
synthetic credit products, or derivatives tied to credit
performance. Dimon said the transactions, intended to manage
risk, were “egregious” failures by the bank’s chief investment
office. JPMorgan has said the amount could increase by $1
billion or more as it winds down the positions.  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment on the $5 billion estimate.  JPMorgan fell 0.5 percent to $33.77 by 10 a.m. in German
trading, after closing at $33.93 in New York yesterday, down 4.3
percent.  The largest U.S. lender by assets didn’t have a treasurer
during the five months when the trades took place, the Journal
 reported  in a separate article.  JPMorgan’s chief investment office oversees about $360
billion, or the difference between deposits and what the bank
lends. Matt Zames, who was appointed to lead the division after
the loss was reported, shook up leadership and announced a
“renewed focus” on hedging risks.  Regulatory Overhaul  The loss has prompted the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
to examine how banks in its district are managing cash after
receiving a flood of deposits since the credit crisis, according
to a person familiar with the matter. Dimon, 56, has agreed to
testify before a Senate committee that’s debating whether to
tighten rules on trading by U.S. lenders.  JPMorgan and regulators face pressure to explain the loss
as lawmakers haggle over rules for the Dodd-Frank regulatory
overhaul enacted two years ago.  The U.S.  Justice Department  and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  in New York have begun a criminal probe of the
trading loss, a person familiar with the matter has said. The
inquiry is in its most preliminary stage, the person said.  The company was trying to reposition a portfolio of
corporate  credit derivatives  and used a trading strategy that
was “flawed, complex, poorly conceived, poorly vetted and
poorly executed,” Dimon told shareholders this week at the
bank’s annual meeting in Tampa,  Florida .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nathaniel Espino in Beijing at 
 nespino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  