-- Desormeaux Fails Alcohol Test, Loses Preakness Mount Tiger Walk
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/kent-desormeaux-fails-alcohol-test-pulled-from-preakness-mount.html
Jockey Kent Desormeaux was relieved
of his mount on Preakness Stakes entry Tiger Walk after failing
a Breathalyzer test yesterday at  New York ’s Belmont Park,
trainer Ignacio Correas IV said.  Ramon Dominguez will ride Tiger Walk for Sagamore Farms in
the 137th running of the second leg of thoroughbred racing’s
Triple Crown today at Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore, Correas
said.  “It was a team decision,” Correas said in a statement
released by the racetrack. “Ramon is a great rider. We’re happy
to have him.”  Desormeaux, 42, a two-time Preakness winner, was removed
from his three mounts on Belmont’s program yesterday, the New
York State Race and Wagering Board said. He wasn’t suspended
pending an investigation by the state racing board.  Every jockey selected to ride must undergo a test for
alcohol consumption under a New York rule that went into effect
April 27.  Mark Stuart, an attorney for the New York racing board,
confirmed that Desormeaux had failed the test.  Tiger Walk, owned by  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  Chief Executive
Officer Kevin Plank and given 30-1 odds in the morning line, is
Dominguez’s 10th Preakness mount. He has yet to win the race,
with his best finish being second on Scrappy T in 2005 and First
Dude in 2010.  “I’m excited to ride the horse, not necessarily the way it
happened,” Dominguez said. “I’m happy that they chose me to
ride this horse. I know very little (about him). I rode against
him a couple of times in New York, and I will have to go look at
a couple of replays to take a look at his running style.”  Dominguez, 35, has won the Eclipse Award as outstanding
jockey the last two years. He led the nation in earnings in 2011
for a straight straight year with a career-best $20.3 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  