-- Kenya Shilling Heads for Five Month Weekly Slump, on Low Yields
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-05-18T11:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/kenya-shilling-heads-for-five-month-weekly-slump-on-low-yields.html
Kenya ’s shilling fell against the
dollar and headed for its highest weekly slump in five months on
falling bond yields and a rush by risk-wary investors to buy
dollars.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy retreated as
much as 0.3 percent to 84.60 and was trading 0.2 percent weaker
at 84.50 per dollar by 12:02 p.m. in the capital Nairobi. A
close at this level would be the biggest weekly loss since
January.  “The weakening of the Kenyan Shilling is on falling yields
and risk-wary investors rushing to buy dollars, as the euro fell
to a four-month low against the dollar on concerns about banks
in Spain and  Greece  and the prospect of contagion if Greece
exits the  euro zone ,”  NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB)  said in a note to
investors.  Falling yields on  government securities  is undermining the
shilling with reduced inflows from foreign investors, who had
been targeting the higher yields, and thus supporting the
currency, Raphael Agung, a dealer at Nairobi’s Commercial Bank
of Africa, said yesterday.  Kenya’s three-month and six-month borrowing costs fell for
the 18th straight week after the government cut the size of its
weekly debt offering and halved its target for domestic debt
purchases this financial year.  Kenya has lowered its target for borrowing on the local
market to 62.1 billion shillings for the fiscal year ending June
30, from a previous goal of 119.5 billion shillings. The country
will replace the local financing with a $600 million syndicated
loan arranged by Citigroup Inc., South Africa’s  Standard Bank
Group Ltd. (SBK)  and London-based  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , which was
signed May 15.  The yield on 91-day Treasury bills declined to 10.075
percent at yesterday’s sale from a high of 20.799 percent at a
sale on Jan. 12, while the yield on 182-day bills declined to
12.078 percent at a sale on May 16, from a high of 20.914
percent realized on Jan. 23, according to the Central bank
 website . The government had offered for sale 2 billion shillings
of 3-months and 6-months treasury bills from previous offer of 4
billion shillings and 3 billion shillings respectively four
weeks ago.  Turmoil  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said turmoil in
the financial markets caused by  Europe ’s debt crisis may last
another two years, as Group of Eight leaders prepared to discuss
Greece and its impact on the global economy.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered debt ratings at 16
Spanish banks, while  Fitch Ratings  cut Greece’s credit rating on
concern the country may not be able to sustain euro membership.
Greeks go to the polls again on June 17.  Kenya has offered 7 billion shillings of bids for
repurchase agreements, an official of the bank who declined to
be identified in line with policy said in a phone interview from
the capital, today.  “The shilling is likely to weaken in the next few days
unless the central bank intervenes,” NIC Bank said in its note.  Kenya’s $600 million two-year loan accord with three
foreign banks will be repaid at interest rate of 475 basis
points above the London interbank offered rate,  Standard Bank 
Group Ltd. said.  The loan has been underwritten by  Citigroup Inc. (C) , based in
 New York , Standard Bank, Africa’s biggest lender based in
Johannesburg, and London-based Standard Chartered Plc, David McCaig, the global head of debt products at Standard Bank Group,
said in an interview yesterday in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.  “We expect the loan, which will be in foreign currency, to
assist in the stabilisation of the shilling and building up of
the foreign-currency reserves,” Njeru Githae, Kenya’s minister
of finance, said on May 15.  Tanzania’s shilling weakened 0.3 percent to 1,588 per
dollar, while the Ugandan shilling gained 0.2 percent to 2,475
per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  