-- King Seen Writing U.K. Inflation Letter as 3% Overshoot Persists
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-18T23:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/king-seen-writing-u-k-inflation-letter-as-3-overshoot-persists.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
will probably have to write a 10th consecutive letter to
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to explain why
inflation remained above the government’s upper limit in April,
according to a survey of economists.  U.K. consumer prices  rose an annual 3.1 percent after a 3.5
percent gain in March, according to the median forecast of 30
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be the slowest in
19 months. King is obliged to write a quarterly open letter to
Osborne while inflation stays above the 3 percent ceiling,
explaining the deviation and what he will do about it.  While consumer-price gains have slowed from a peak of 5.2
percent in September, they have been above the 2 percent target
for more than two years and the central bank said earlier this
week that may continue for another year. King has previously
blamed temporary factors for the overshoot and said on May 16
that the impact of tax rises and increases in commodity costs
this year meant price gains have slowed less than expected.  “Mervyn has been writing a version of the same letter
every quarter since February 2010,” said  Howard Archer , an
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. While “underlying
inflationary pressures will gradually ease,” the fact “remains
that consumer price inflation is proving a lot stickier than had
been expected and hoped for.”  Bank of England policy makers voted to halt expanding their
bond-purchase program at 325 billion pounds ($414 billion) last
week after some officials stepped up their rhetoric on
inflation.  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said April 18 that the
“uncomfortably above target” rate could hold above 3 percent
into the second half of the year. Minutes of the May 9-10 policy
meeting will be published on May 23.  The  Office for National Statistics  in London will publish
April’s inflation data at 9:30 a.m. on May 22, while any letter
from King, as well as Osborne’s response, will be released an
hour later by the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  