-- Trade Disorder Plagues Nasdaq Handling $16 Billion Facebook IPO
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-05-18T23:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/nasdaq-manages-16-billion-facebook-ipo-amid-confirmation-delays.html
Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  debut on the Nasdaq
Stock Market turned into another setback for American equity
exchanges, with the $16 billion initial public offering plagued
by delays in trade confirmations, crossed quotes and signs that
orders were mishandled.  The pricing of the first  transaction  took a half hour
longer than Nasdaq planned. About 30 minutes later, the second-
largest U.S. equities exchange operator reported an issue
confirming  trades  from the opening auction with the brokerages
that placed them. Nasdaq later established an appeals process
for investors whose instructions weren’t carried out.  Scrutiny of American equity markets intensified in March
when Bats Global Markets Inc., the third-largest U.S. stock
exchange owner, withdrew its IPO after failing to trade on its
own platform.  Nasdaq ’s mishaps, on a day when the most
anticipated IPO of the year eked out a gain of 0.6 percent,
disappointed investors hoping to erase the memory of Bats.  “It certainly wasn’t their best day,”  Larry Tabb , chief
executive officer of research firm Tabb Group LLC in  New York ,
said in a phone interview. “That said, it also wasn’t a
complete disaster. Nasdaq really needs to investigate what the
challenges are and fix them quickly. There was a lot riding on
this IPO and apparently it didn’t go so well.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said it will
review the trading. Nasdaq spokesman Robert Madden didn’t return
calls and e-mails seeking comment. Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman
for Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook , declined to comment.  Treading Water  Facebook  advanced  23 cents to $38.23 after surging as much
as 18 percent. It fell as low as the IPO price of $38, which
valued the company at $104.2 billion. More than 43 million
shares were  executed  at that level, the second-most changing
hands at any price except for $42, the opening auction price,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. A total of 583 million Facebook
shares traded.  Underwriters purchased shares to keep them from  falling 
below $38, people with knowledge of the matter said. The bankers
supported the stock amid Nasdaq’s difficulties delivering trade
execution messages, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the transactions are private.  Facebook was originally scheduled to open at 11 a.m. At
about 11:07 a.m., a Nasdaq official told market participants on
a conference call that the exchange was  delaying  the opening.
Aside from assurances that an update was coming, the phone line
went silent until just before the first trade at about 11:30,
according to two people who were on the call and asked not to be
identified because the discussions were private.  Appeals Planned  Buy and sell requests that should have been filled in the
opening auction, based on the exchange’s rules, weren’t, while
cancellations for other trade requests were ignored, they said.
Their employers plan to appeal some of the results they received
for orders sent to Nasdaq today.  Nasdaq began experiencing problems with its bid and offer
 quotes  after the opening auction trade. By 11:31 a.m., the
exchange’s highest bid, or price at which market participants
were willing to purchase shares, was $42.99, and its lowest
offer to sell was $42.50, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The quotes produced a so-called crossed market, where
sellers appear to be asking less than buyers are willing to pay.  Other markets continued trading, usually with a difference
of a few cents between their best bid and lowest offer. Nasdaq’s
 quotes  were marked as manual and not electronically accessible,
which allowed brokers and other exchanges to ignore the venue’s
prices. Its offer price later dropped to $38.01 and remained at
that level, almost $4 below the highest bid, until 1:49 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Don’t Like’  “Clearly investors would hit the ‘don’t like’ button,”
 Matt McCormick , who helps oversee $6.2 billion at Bahl & Gaynor
Inc. in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview.  The IPO price valued the company at  107 times  trailing 12-
month earnings, more than all Standard & Poor’s 500 Index stocks
except Amazon.com Inc. and Equity Residential. The valuation
also made Facebook, co-founded in 2004 by a then-teenage  Mark
Zuckerberg , the largest company to go public in the U.S.  Nasdaq said in a statement posted to its website at 11:59
a.m. New York time that it was having a problem delivering trade
confirmations related to the IPO. “Nasdaq is working to deliver
these executions back to customers as soon as possible,”
according to the notice. The company said in a message at about
1:57 p.m. that the delayed messages had been sent.  No Confirmations  Customers of London-based Fidessa Group Plc, which helps
asset managers track transactions, weren’t receiving
confirmation of Facebook trades, according to an e-mailed
statement. Michael Cianfrocca, a spokesman for Charles Schwab
Corp. in  San Francisco , wrote in an e-mail: “There are
currently industrywide delays in reporting trade executions.
These issues do not appear to be unique to Schwab.”  Uncertainty about whether orders received executions in the
opening auction affected some clients of online broker  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , according to Steve Quirk, senior vice
president of the trader group at the Omaha, Nebraska-based
company. Facebook accounted for 22 percent of today’s equities
volume at the firm, he said by e-mail.  “When you have a complex market system that gets
overwhelmed, it fails in bizarre ways,” James Angel, a finance
professor at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , said in a
phone interview. “If you don’t know whether you got filled, you
don’t know your position. If you’re buying you might buy more
shares and then suddenly you’ve got twice as many shares as you
wanted. It makes it hard to do your risk management and hard for
brokers to know how much credit to extend to customers.”  Nasdaq Shares  Nasdaq OMX (NDAQ)  shares fell 4.4 percent, the most since October,
to $21.99. NYSE Euronext gained 0.3 percent to $24.61.  Adding to the initial confusion surrounding the opening
trade in Facebook was a halt in a company that  generated  11
percent of the company’s $1.06 billion in first-quarter revenue.
 Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  failed to trade for almost an hour after being paused
by a single-stock circuit breaker, designed to curb volatility
when a price swings at least 10 percent in five minutes.  The stock was paused at 11:37 a.m. New York time after
dropping as much as 14 percent to $7.08. Each circuit breaker
normally lasts five minutes. It resumed at 12:29 p.m., only to
be paused again when it rebounded from the earlier decline. The
second halt lasted more than an hour.  Dani Dudeck, a Zynga spokeswoman, declined to comment.  “For many people, Zynga was a proxy for Facebook,”said Angel, a director of Jersey City, New Jersey-based Direct Edge
Holdings LLC. “Nobody knew what was going on. Nasdaq may have
had their hands full dealing with the Facebook glitches and may
have just let it slide. That’s not a good sign.”  Federick’s of Hollywood  Loncor Resources Inc. (LN)  and  Frederick’s of Hollywood Group
Inc. (FOH) , both listed by a market owned by NYSE Euronext, and
Nasdaq-listed  MER Telemanagement Solutions (MTSL)  Ltd. were halted
between 12:22 p.m. and 12:24 p.m. New York time.  Facebook’s offering came as U.S.  equity markets  are mired
in the worst slump since October. About $1 trillion has been
erased from share values this month after speculation  Greece 
will leave the euro region reversed the biggest first-quarter
rally since 1998. The  S&P 500  fell a sixth straight session,
losing 0.7 percent to 1,295.22.  “It should be Nasdaq’s day to shine and instead it’s more
questions and bugs in the system,” said  Larry Peruzzi , senior
equity trader at Cabrera Capital Markets LLC in  Boston .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  