-- Navy Wanted Slimmer Sailor For Role in ‘Battleship’ Movie
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-18T20:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/navy-wanted-slimmer-sailor-for-role-in-battleship-movie.html
During the making of the movie
“Battleship,” the science fiction thriller pitting U.S. naval
forces against alien attackers, the Navy requested just one key
change: replace an overweight actor portraying an officer with a
slimmer one, according to director Peter Berg.  The surface-ship tale, a special-effects-laden movie which
opens nationally today, received full U.S. Navy cooperation.
Navy Secretary Ray Mabus had a one-line role as commanding
officer of the USS Ronald Reagan aircraft carrier: “Commence
air operations.”  The cooperation included filming on U.S. vessels during the
 RIMPAC 2010  naval exercise and at famous Hawaiian sites, use of
sailors on leave, helicopter flights and one day at sea filming
the USS Missouri, a floating museum normally docked at  Pearl
Harbor . The so-called Mighty Mo battleship last fired its guns
during the 1991 Persian  Gulf War .  In exchange for such access, equipment and personnel,
filmmakers must modify a script if requested by the Pentagon or
military service. Among the most famous maritime films that
received Pentagon and Navy support was 1990’s “The Hunt for Red
October.”  “The only significant modification I had to make”
involved the actor initially cast as a destroyer executive
officer, Berg said in an interview in  Washington .  “I cast without meeting him,” Berg said. “I saw him just
on video. He was 35 pounds overweight. The Navy consultants had
a ‘body-fat’ rule. They said ‘he’s too fat, don’t use him.’ I
had to get rid of him. That was the only issue I had with the
Navy.”  ‘Adventure Film’  “There were times when we would argue and disagree but we
would always work it out,” Berg said.  Battleship “is an adventure film” not meant to be taken
literally, Berg said. Still, Navy consultants were involved with
how to portray procedures, such as “the way the Navy
communicates, certainly wardrobe and cause-and-effect -- if some
member acts out, he’s got to be held accountable,” Berg said.
“That was no problem.”  The singer Rihanna, making her acting debut, had a female
Navy technical adviser.  The adviser coached the Barbadian pop singer -- who’s a
petty officer second-class in the movie -- on military protocol
and weapons handling, ranging from a small-boat Gatling gun to a
5-inch destroyer deck gun she uses to demolish an alien.  The Navy allowed the filmmaker access to vessels during
previously scheduled training events and dockside, said
spokesman Lieutenant Myers Vasquez in a telephone interview.  Brief Voyage  NBC Universal  worked directly with the Naval Facilities
Engineering Command and paid all expenses for any crane, lift
and dumpster usage on base, Vasquez said.  The film crew was considered media and allowed to film on
the Arleigh Burke-class destroyers USS Hopper and John Paul
Jones and amphibious assault ship USS Bonhomme Richard, he said.  Actor Alexander Skarsgard, who plays the commanding officer
of a destroyer, also was allowed time on the USS Benfold to
watch a real one in action.  Berg’s crew filmed the Missouri in January 2010 during a
brief, at-sea foray as it returned from dry dock to its
permanent site near the USS  Arizona  after an $18 million
maintenance and preservation upgrade.  Tugboats towed the  Missouri  about two miles offshore
Honolulu’s Waikiki Beach. Special effects artists recreated the
battleship for its climactic encounter with aliens.  “Her historic albeit brief ‘voyage’ was an image not seen
since the ship’s arrival in  Hawaii  in 1998,” according to the
production notes.  The Missouri, commissioned in 1944, was the last battleship
built by the U.S.  Japan  surrendered to the U.S. on board the
Missouri in 1945, ending World War II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  