-- News Corp. Sued Over Hacking by Victim of 2005 London Bombings
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-18T12:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/news-corp-sued-over-hacking-by-victim-of-2005-london-bombings.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit and the
private investigator it hired to hack voice mail was sued by a
professor who was seated next to a suicide bomber in the 2005
terror attacks on London’s trains and buses.  John Tulloch, a former professor of media studies at Brunel
University in London, filed the lawsuit May 15 in the U.K.
capital. Tulloch was told by police that his details were in the
notebooks of  Glenn Mulcaire , who intercepted mobile-phone
messages for the now-defunct News of the World, said  Charlotte  Harris, Tulloch’s lawyer.  The lawsuit was filed the same day Rebekah Brooks, News
International’s former chief executive officer, was charged with
conspiring to pervert the course of justice in the new police
probe into phone hacking. About 50 people have been arrested and
the company’s lawyers have said hundreds more civil lawsuits
may be filed by the tabloid’s victims.  Tulloch is the author of “One Day in July: Experiencing
7/7,” a book about the attack that killed 52 people in  London 
on July 7, 2005. His bloodied face and outspoken remarks
were featured in the press in the aftermath of the bombings. In
the book, the Australian-born Tulloch said the terror attack was
twisted and exploited by nationalistic, right-wing, Islamophobic
sections of the U.K. press.  Daisy Dunlop, a spokeswoman for News Corp. in London,
declined to comment.  Sheila Henry, the mother of a victim of the 7/7 bombings,
sued in September over claims the News of the World hacked her
phone after the attack to get stories about her son. She settled
the case before it went to trial.  Mulcaire served six months in prison in 2007 after pleading
guilty to phone-hacking violations. He was arrested a second
time in December as part of the new probe into the scandal.  News Corp., based in  New York , has spent about $258 million
dealing with the scandal, including $151.4 million in legal fees
and $15.6 million in settlements.  The case is: Tulloch v. News Group Newspapers Ltd,  High
Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division , HC12F02025.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  