-- Naira Pares Worst Week in 5 Months on Bets CBN Selling Dollars
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-05-18T14:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/nigeria-s-naira-heads-for-worst-week-since-december-on-oil-drop.html
Nigeria ’s naira rose for the first
time in six days, paring its worst week this year, on
speculation the  Central Bank of Nigeria  sold dollars.  The currency of Africa’s largest oil producer advanced 0.3
percent to 158.6 per dollar as of 3 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital. The gain trimmed the naira’s retreat this
week to 0.5 percent, the biggest drop since a similar period
ended Dec. 23.  The central bank, which  sold  $200 million at its second
weekly auction May 16, intervened in the market today outside of
its scheduled sales to prop up the currency, Access Bank Plc’s
treasury department said in an e-mail. Ugochukwu Okoroafor, a
spokesman for the Abuja-based regulator, didn’t answer a call to
his mobile phone.  The naira “has come under pressure this week,”  Samir Gadio , an  emerging markets  strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd. in London, wrote in a note to clients today. “The CBN has
proactively intervened to contain the depreciation” this week,
he said.  The central bank is the main supplier of foreign currency
to the market through twice-weekly auctions and direct sales to
lenders in the  interbank market . The sale two days ago was the
biggest since an auction on March 21.  Oil, Nigeria’s main export, headed for its third weekly
decline in  New York  after Germany’s finance minister said
Europe’s crisis may last another two years and reports added to
evidence of a slowdown in China. Brent fell to its lowest this
year in London.  Bonds Fall  Yields on Nigeria’s $500 million of dollar bonds due 2021
jumped 10 basis points to 5.947 percent, the highest since
February, heading for the worst week since September. Borrowing
costs on naira bonds due 2019 rose three basis points to 15.45
percent, according to May 17 data compiled by the Financial
Markets Dealers Association.  “We have detected some concern among offshore investors in
naira debt about the  exchange rate  in the light of oil price
softness,” Gregory Kronsten, head of macroeconomic research at
FBN Capital Ltd. in  London , wrote in a e-mailed note today.  Greece had its credit downgraded by  Fitch Ratings  on concern
the politically deadlocked country may not be able to sustain
euro membership. The nation is scheduled to hold fresh elections
on June 17.  “Given the risks of heightened uncertainty and volatility
ahead of the Greek elections, we think it is appropriate to turn
more defensive on EM assets, avoiding higher beta assets,”
Barclays Capital strategists, including Koon Chow, Piotr Chwiejczak and Andreas Kolbe, wrote in a report.  Ghana’s cedi was unchanged at 1.905 per dollar in Accra,
the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  