-- NLB Bank Borrowed $1.5 Billion From ECB to Repay Debt
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-05-18T11:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/nlb-bank-borrowed-1-5-billion-from-ecb-to-repay-debt.html
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. borrowed
1.2 billion euros ($1.5 billion) from the  European Central Bank 
to “finance liquidity obligations,” acting Chief Executive
Officer Bozo Jasovic said.  Slovenian banks have limited access to funding from abroad
after the euro-region country saw its  credit rating  cut in
September, the economy slid into its second recession in three
years and lenders posted record losses last year. The ECB in
December started offering unlimited three-year loans to European
banks as it sought to ease pressure on bond yields of countries
such as Spain and  Italy  amid the sovereign debt-crisis.  “We have borrowed 1.2 billion euros and the funds will be
used to pre-finance our liquidity obligations that we need to
repay in the coming months,” Jasovic said in an interview in
Portoroz, Slovenia. “The bank has the option to repay loans a
year after it took them out and we may do so in case of an
adequate liquidity position.”  Slovenian banks, including Nova Ljubljanska, need to repay
about 4 billion euros of maturing debt this year, the
government’s forecasting institute said in February. NLB, the
biggest bank by assets, reported a loss for a third consecutive
year amounting to 239 million euros on surging provisions for
bad loans.  The shrinking Slovenian economy is contributing to the
worsening of Slovenian banks’ loan portfolio and profitability,
the central bank in Ljubljana said May 14.  Banka Slovenije 
proposed lenders reduce their dependence on wholesale markets,
ECB funding and lower the loan-to-deposit ratio.  Guidelines  “We are trying to follow the unofficial guidelines and
suggestions from the central bank and we are therefore managing
our balance sheet in a way to fulfill these suggestions as soon
as possible,” Jasovic said in the May 16 interview.  NLB is looking for a new chief executive after Jasovic
stepped down in December over disagreements about the sale of
Slovenian retailer  Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d.  to its Croatian
rival Agrokor d.d. Jasovic said the bank will probably get a new
CEO once NLB finds a partner that would contribute to a 400
million-euro capital boost. The lender needs equity capital to
improve its ratios by the end of June as demanded by the central
bank and the European Banking Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  