-- No Orderly Exit for Greece, Nielsen Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-05-18T19:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/no-orderly-exit-for-greece-nielsen-says-tom-keene.html
A well-organized exit by Greece from
the euro system is impossible, according to  Erik Nielsen , chief
economist at UniCredit Bank AG.  If Greece decides it wants to leave, “I am completely
convinced they could not orchestrate an orderly exit,” Nielsen
said in a Bloomberg TV interview on “Midday Surveillance” with
Tom Keene. “This is a country that can’t implement laws, so how
in the world are they going to secretly agree to print money,
control the banks, control capital flows and think this is going
to be orderly? It’s completely impossible.”  The nation’s credit rating was cut to CCC from B- yesterday
by  Fitch Ratings  on concern it won’t be able to muster the
political support needed to sustain its euro membership. Greek
political leaders began campaigning today for the June 17
election, the country’s second vote in six weeks, after a rise
in support for anti-austerity parties scuttled the formation of
a government.  The benefit of an exit to  Greece ’s debt costs would be
short-lived, said London-based Nielsen, who worked in both the
International Monetary Fund’s European department and at the
 World Bank  as a senior economist for Russia.  “A small, open economy that devalues would have a lot of
inflation very quickly, so any gains won would be very
transitory,” he said.  The euro has lost 1.1 percent this week to $1.2771. It
traded at $1.3239 at the end of April. Yields on Italian 10-year
government  bonds  touched 6.01 percent this week, the highest
level since January.  “The euro has been sitting very tough, but investors have
stopped playing the Italian sovereign market, and now the way
you express your skepticism about Europe is in the foreign-
exchange market,” Nielsen said. The euro will approach $1.20,
he said, a level it last touched in June 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  