-- NYC Best: Jim Parsons, GoogaMooga, Sachs on Mars, Monet
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/nyc-best-jim-parsons-googamooga-sachs-on-mars-monet.html
Head out to Prospect Park for the
Great GoogaMooga, a festival devoted to food and music.  Over two days you can hear The Roots, Unknown Mortal
Orchestra, Daryl Hall and John Oates, Peelander-Z and Lucius.  Star chefs include  Tom Colicchio ,  Marcus Samuelsson  and
April Bloomfield. Foie gras doughnut anyone?  There will also be wines from around the world, and more
than 35 different domestic and foreign craft beer makers.  Nethermead Meadow, Prospect Park,  Brooklyn . Information:
 http://www.googamooga.com .  Saturday Afternoon  Take a trip to Mars with Tom Sachs, whose deadpan
sculptural installation has now landed at the Park Avenue
Armory’s 55,000-square-foot drill hall.  Complete with mission control, spacecraft and a Darth Vader
beer dispenser, the works are obviously hand-constructed from
plywood, foam-core and glue.  Sachs  and his team will be there to perform the procedures
of space travel and activate the complex sculptural systems.  If you undergo the “Indoctrination” process, you might
get to climb into the Landing Excursion Module.  “Space Program: Mars” runs through June 17 at the Park
Avenue Armory, 643 Park Ave. Information: +1-212-616-3930;
 http://www.armoryonpark.org .  Saturday Outdoors  Immerse yourself in Claude Monet’s favorite blooms at a
recreation of his beloved Giverny garden.  You’ll see irises, poppies, delphiniums and foxgloves, plus
his iconic Japanese footbridge drooping with wisteria. There’s
also a replica of the Grand Allee from his formal garden.  The  New York  Botanical Garden’s tribute to the French
master also brings together two of his paintings, plus
historical photographs of Monet creating his flower beds.  For the water lilies, though, you’ll have to come back in
July.  Runs through Oct. 21 at the New York Botanical Garden, 2900
Southern Boulevard, Bronx. Information: +1-718-817-8779;
 http://www.nybg.org .  Saturday Night  For a diverting evening, try “Old Jews Telling Jokes.”  Based on the popular Website, the show featuring schtick
and music was created by authors Peter Gethers and Daniel Okrent.  Joke-telling duties are divided among 5 raconteurs,
including Marilyn Sokol and Bill Army.  Have you ever heard the one about the Frenchman, the German
and the Jew wandering through the desert?  In previews at the Westside Theatre, 407 W. 43rd St. for a
May 20 opening. Information: +1-212-230-6200;
 http://oldjewstellingjokesonstage.com   Sunday  Visit “Cloud City” on the roof of the  Metropolitan Museum 
of Art.  Argentinian artist Tomas Saraceno has installed a series of
interconnected modules that shimmer and reflect light. If you
want to climb through the structure, wear flat, rubber-soled
shoes.  Less ambitious? Sip a glass of wine and take in the late
spring beauty of Central Park and the city skyline.  Runs through Nov. 4 at the Met, 1000 Fifth Ave.
Information: +1-212-535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  Sunday Matinee  Christian Tetzlaff gets a workout when he joins  David
Robertson  and the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra onstage at
 Carnegie Hall .  On the program: Mozart’s Adagio in E Major and violin
concertos by Mendelssohn and Schoenberg.  At Carnegie Hall, 57th St. and 7th Ave. Information: +1-
212-247-7800;  http://www.carnegiehall.org .  Stop by Abboccatto for Nonna’s Sunday pasta dinner: start
with mozzarella di bufala and move on to rigatoni with meatballs
and home-made Italian sausage.  Leave room for cannoli and espresso.  At 136 W. 55th St. Information: +1-212-265-4000.  Sunday Evening  Jim Parsons  takes the stage as Harvey’s human friend, the
affable Elwood P. Dowd, who introduces everyone to the invisible
6-foot-tall pooka who resembles a big rabbit.  You may remember  Jimmy Stewart  as Dowd in the 1950 film
“Harvey.”  Best-known for playing Sheldon Cooper on TV’s “The Big
Bang Theory,” Parsons brings his talent for physical comedy to
the role in the Roundabout Theatre Company’s revival of Mary
Chase’s Pulitzer Prize-winning play.  In previews at Studio 54, 254 W. 54th St. for a June 14
opening. Information: +1-212-719-1300;
 http://www.roundabouttheatre.org .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include a  Lewis Lapham  podcast and movie
 reviews .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 