-- Obama, Hollande Meet for First Time Before G-8 Summit Convenes
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-05-18T01:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/obama-hollande-meet-for-first-time-before-g-8-summit-convenes.html
President  Barack Obama  meets today
with France’s new Socialist president and self-described
“normal” guy in a test for U.S.-French relations as Obama
tries to shape European economic and military commitments.  The late morning meeting at the White House, the first
between Obama and President  Francois Hollande , takes place hours
before they join other leaders of the Group of Eight nations at
a summit at Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland.  The agenda for the leaders includes Greece’s debt crisis,
global food security and the role of strategic oil reserves in
cushioning any economic shocks from a European Union ban on
Iranian imports that begins July 1.  Hollande earlier this month became the first Socialist in
17 years to control  Europe ’s second-biggest economy by defeating
 Nicolas Sarkozy , with whom Obama developed a close working
relationship in dealing with issues from Libya to  Iran  to
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  While Obama and Hollande will need “to work through” some
issues, such as France’s commitments in  Afghanistan , “I at this
point frankly see a good relationship building between us
already,” White House National Security Adviser Tom Donilon
told reporters yesterday.  Hollande’s goal in his first meeting with Obama is to
reassert the strong ties between the U.S. and France and to
reassure that any differences of opinion shouldn’t put the
alliance into question, an Hollande adviser said, speaking on
condition of anonymity.  NATO in Chicago  From the G-8 meeting in rural  Maryland , most of the leaders
will travel tomorrow evening to  Chicago  for a North Atlantic
Treaty Organization summit where a central topic is a discussion
of military issues, including funding and manpower to support
Afghanistan after coalition forces leave at the end of 2014.  The economy and the continuing turmoil in Greece will
dominate much of the G-8 discussion. Hollande’s advocacy of more
growth and less austerity in Europe puts him at odds with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who opposes adding to nations’ debt
burdens. That makes Hollande a potentially valuable ally for
Obama, 50, who has advocated a more growth-focused approach.  The U.S. is seeking agreement on a common goal “to
preserve the foundations of the eurozone, to address the current
crisis facing Europe, particularly as a result of the political
events in  Greece ,” Donilon said.  Greek Elections  Greece is scheduled to hold national elections on June 17,
with its future in the 17-nation euro area and an international
rescue at stake. The nation’s credit rating was downgraded one
level by  Fitch Ratings  on concerns the country won’t be able to
muster the political support to meet bailout terms. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index dropped 1.1 percent to 241.63 at the close of
trading yesterday, for the longest losing streak since March 22.  Hollande, 57, has advertised himself to the French as a
less dramatic and more emotionally predictable leader than
Sarkozy, which also may mesh with Obama’s approach at a time of
economic upheaval.  While Sarkozy’s support of sanctions against Iran and NATO
engagement on  Libya  bolstered Obama, U.S. officials have yet to
have detailed discussions with Hollande’s government on foreign
policy matters.  The Hollande adviser said France will reiterate that Iran
must fully comply with its international obligations and that
the French position isn’t changing.  Afghan Withdrawal  Hollande made a campaign pledge to withdraw French combat
forces from Afghanistan by the end of 2012, a year ahead of
Sarkozy’s plan and against U.S. wishes. That may frustrate U.S.
efforts to keep European forces in place there through 2014, and
to get NATO partners to help underwrite an estimated $4.1
billion a year in assistance to the Afghans over the following
decade.  Donilon signaled yesterday that Obama accepts Hollande’s
plans for combat force withdrawals and will focus on what other
sort of contributions Hollande may offer, such as trainers or
other types of assistance.  “I’m sure that he intends to keep his campaign
commitments,” Donilon said. “We’ll have a discussion with the
French on where they want to go on this,” while reminding
France that “you are a member of the alliance.”  Hollande’s adviser said the withdrawal won’t create a
strategic hurdle for NATO goals and France isn’t encouraging the
alliance to withdraw early. France won’t announce a pledge for
Afghan security assistance while at NATO, the adviser said.  Camp David  The G-8 summit will be the largest gathering ever of
foreign leaders at the rustic presidential retreat in the
Catoctin Mountains. Deciding which leader gets what cabin was a
protocol matter run by a deputy White House chief of staff and
director of the White House Military Office, according to
Donilon.  Over dinner tonight, they are scheduled to discuss security
issues, including Iran, Syria,  North Korea  and Burma. Tomorrow’s
talks are to focus on the economy, including Greece, which faces
an election on June 17 that may shape whether it exits from the
euro.  Merkel’s party was defeated in the nation’s most populous
state on May 13, two days before data showed economic growth in
the euro area stagnated.  The G-8 includes the U.S.,  Canada , the U.K.,  Germany ,
France, Italy,  Japan  and  Russia . The European Union also has two
seats. This is the first G-8 for Hollande, Italian Prime
Minister Mario Monti and Japan’s prime minister,  Yoshihiko Noda .  Russian President Vladimir Putin, inaugurated earlier this
month, is skipping the G-8, sending Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  in his place. Putin is at odds with the U.S. on issues
ranging from missile defense to the approach toward Syria and
Iran.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  