-- Obama Urged to Reassess Ethiopian Relations Over Land Evictions
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-05-18T11:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/obama-urged-to-reassess-ethiopian-relations-over-land-evictions.html
The U.S. should reassess its support
for the government of  Ethiopia , amid concern that more than half
a million people are being evicted to make land available for
foreign investment in agriculture, advocacy groups including the
Oakland Institute said.  A meeting tomorrow between President  Barack Obama  and
Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, among other African
leaders, presents an opportunity for the U.S. to address the
issue, the California-based group said in a joint statement with
the Solidarity Movement for a New Ethiopia, or SMNE. The U.S.
has provided aid worth more than $1 billion a year since 2007 to
Ethiopia, according to the statement.  Foreign investment in commercial farming may be the “single
largest man-made contributor to food insecurity on the continent
today,” they said. “We hope that you will take leadership in
responding to an international call asking you to put the brakes
on this impending and present-day catastrophe.”  Ethiopia,  Africa ’s second-most populous nation, is leasing
out land to investors to grow cash crops and generate foreign
exchange. The government leased 350,096 hectares (865,106 acres)
of land to 24 companies, including 10 foreign ones, according to
the  Agriculture Ministry ’s website. Oakland puts the amount of
leased land at 3.6 million hectares.  The government denies any connection between land leasing
and resettlement programs. The relocation of about 20,000
households in the southwestern Gambella region last year was
voluntary and aimed at providing people with access to farmland
and public services, Federal Affairs Minister Shiferaw
Teklemariam said in an interview in March.  Ambassador Criticized  Oakland and SMNE criticized U.S. Ambassador to Ethiopia
Donald E. Booth, citing him as saying people in Gambella benefit
from the government’s policies.  “Mr. Booth seems unwilling to acknowledge any of the abuse,
violence, or coercion that human rights groups and the media
have reported,” they said. The U.S. Embassy in Ethiopia is
awaiting approval from  Washington  for its response to the
statement, Diane Brandt, a spokeswoman for the embassy, said by
phone today from  Addis Ababa .  SMNE, which has branches in the U.K., the U.S. and  Canada ,
advocates “rule of law, respect for human rights, equal
opportunity and good governance” in Ethiopia, according to its
website. The group’s executive director, Obang Metho, is being
tried in absentia in Ethiopia for terrorism.  Horizon Plantations, an Ethiopian company majority owned by
Saudi billionaire Mohamed al-Amoudi, criticized Oakland’s
association with SMNE. Horizon has leased 20,000 hectares in
Ethiopia’s western region of Benishangul-Gumuz to grow
groundnuts for edible oil.  “All of the land being given to international investors is
the land which is not developed at all,” Horizon General Manager
Jemal Ahmed said in a phone interview. “Oakland Institute does
not care for Ethiopia. They are doing their best to stop the
development taking place by allying themselves with violent and
hate-advocating diaspora opposition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 