-- Obama Calls for Africa Aid as Companies Pledge $3 Billion
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-05-18T18:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/obama-food-speech-puts-rising-global-hunger-threat-on-g-8-agenda.html
President  Barack Obama  called for a
new phase of African farm aid as 45 companies worldwide
including Cargill Inc. pledge more than $3 billion to ease
threats to global security posed by scarce nutrition.  The “New Alliance for Food Security and Nutrition” has a
goal of pulling 50 million people from poverty in the next 10
years, Obama said today in his first speech on food security,
before traveling to the Group of Eight summit at Camp David,
Maryland.  “As the wealthiest nation on earth, I believe the U.S. has
a moral obligation to lead the fight against hunger and
nutrition and to partner with others” to end poverty, Obama
said at a symposium in Washington. In the audience were U2
singer Bono and several African heads of state.  World food supplies are being stressed by rising demand in
 emerging markets  and increased use of crops in  biofuels , leading
to higher and more volatile prices, according to a U.S.
intelligence report released last week. Import-dependent
countries such as  Egypt , Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sudan are
especially vulnerable to food unrest, the report said.
Competition for water will fuel instability in South Asia and
the  Middle East , the U.S. said in March.  Food Riots  Food supplies gained global attention after a run-up in
corn, wheat and soybean prices in 2007 and 2008 prompted riots
in more than 60 nations, according to the U.S. State Department.
The G-8 summit in  Italy  in 2009 led to a pledge for $22 billion
in agricultural development assistance to boost  food production 
in poorer countries.  The U.S. promised $3.5 billion and the next year unveiled a
 “Feed the Future”  plan that focuses on farm development in
poorer nations and generating additional investments from other
donors. The new initiative is requesting an additional $1.2
billion over the next three years from existing and new donors.  Increased production will lift Africans out of poverty and
stabilize economies, Obama said today, referring to his own
relatives in  Kenya  and the hunger experienced in the region’s
villages.  “Fifty years ago,  Africa  was an exporter of food,” Obama
said. “There is no reason why Africa should not be feeding
itself and exporting food again.”  Private Sector Involvement  The new pledges further involve the private sector in
alleviating hunger and spurring development in poorer countries,
said Rajiv Shah, head of the U.S.  Agency for International
Development.   “You cannot have stability and security as long as regions
and countries and communities are deeply food-insecure,” Shah
said. Companies have expertise and market skills governments
can’t match, which are crucial to apply in Africa as the
continent attracts new investment, he said.  Commitments from companies range from $100 million over
three years from  Agco Corp. (AGCO) , a Duluth, Georgia-based farm-
equipment maker, to a pledge to raise more cows and ewes from
Selous Farming, a Tanzanian livestock- and crop-producer.
 Syngenta AG (SYNN)  of Basel,  Switzerland , a chemical and seedmaker, is
committing $500 million over 10 years.  Minneapolis-based Cargill, the biggest U.S. agribusiness,
plans to invest in two Mozambique projects, and St. Louis-based
 Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest seedmaker, is committing $50
million over 10 years.  DuPont Co. (DD) , the No. 2 seed producer, is
increasing its work in Ethiopia to improve soil analysis. The
region’s investment climate is improving, Chief Executive
Officer  Ellen Kullman  said in an interview.  ‘Matter of Momentum’  “It’s a matter of momentum,” the chief of Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont said. “More people are collaborating, and
there’s greater transparency.”  Africa, because it’s the continent with the most
undeveloped and under-producing land, is a promising source for
new nutrition, said  Josette Sheeran , vice-chairman of the
Cologny, Switzerland-based  World Economic Forum .|  “The world can’t feed itself by 2050 without Africa,” she
said. Achieving the necessary productivity requires governments
to get past the “hand-out” era of aid, and even the “hand-
up” programs to encourage self-sufficiency, she said. “We need
handshakes” among governments and businesses to integrate the
continent’s farmers with the broader world, she said.  Government promises don’t bear fruit if businesses aren’t
interested in developing markets, said Ertharin Cousin, who last
month became the executive director of the Rome-based World Food
Program.  Wal-Mart, Farmers  “Unless you can provide private-sector interest, work we
do isn’t sustainable,” Cousin said yesterday in an interview.
The WFP’s Purchase for Progress program that buys crops from
small farmers for food aid, for example, is connecting those
producers to buyers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , which is
sourcing from World Food Program-supported growers in Honduras
and Guatemala. That keeps poor populations from becoming aid-
dependent, she said.  Food costs reached a record in February 2011, helping to
push 44 million people into extreme poverty and contributed to
the Arab Spring riots across North Africa and the Middle East,
World Bank President Robert Zoellick said.  World food costs have dropped  8.9 percent  from a year ago
and remain below levels in 2008. Corn inventories in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest grain-shipper, may double by the end of the
next marketing year, further easing inflationary pressure.  Still, rising demand will require 70 percent more food
production by 2050 as the planet adds 2 billion people,
according to the  United Nations . Food-price pressures may ease
in the longer term should governments and companies invest in
better transportation, fertilizer and water use, last week’s
U.S. intelligence report said.  While the G-8 summit of some of the world’s largest
economies will address food insecurity, the meeting is expected
to be dominated by the euro zone crisis. Members are the U.S.,
Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia and the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  