-- Oil Falls to Six-Month Low on Europe
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-05-18T20:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/oil-heads-for-third-weekly-loss-on-debt-crisis-china-economy.html
Oil dropped to a six-month low in  New
York  on concern that Greece will have to exit the euro system,
compounding Europe’s debt troubles and curbing fuel demand.  Futures declined 1.2 percent after German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that market turmoil caused by the euro-
zone crisis may last two more years. Crude capped its third
weekly decline as U.S.  consumer confidence  fell and  oil supplies 
rose to a 22-year high. Prices are down 11 percent this quarter
after climbing 4.2 percent during the previous three months.  “All of the macroeconomic news has been negative,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group in Villanova,
Pennsylvania. “Oil is moving on what’s happening in Europe and
what it will mean here. In February, people were afraid to sell
oil and now they’re afraid to buy it.”  Crude oil for June delivery fell $1.08 to $91.48 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
Oct. 26. Prices retreated 4.8 percent this week are down 7.4
percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement declined 35 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $107.14 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark closed
at the lowest level since Dec. 20.  Brent’s premium to the July West Texas Intermediate
contract in New York widened to $15.34 from $14.30 the day after
Enbridge Inc. and Enterprise Products Partners LP said they
would reverse flows on the Seaway pipeline this weekend.  The Brent contract may decline to the $99 to $100 lows seen
in August and September after breaking through long-term support
in the $108.50 to $109.20 area, according to a note by Stephanie Aymes, a technical analyst at Societe Generale SA in London.  G-8 Meeting  Schaeuble’s comments came as Group of Eight leaders
including German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  prepared to discuss
 Greece  and its impact on the global economy. The G-8 meeting
begins tonight at the Camp David presidential retreat in rural
Maryland. The group includes the leaders of the U.S., U.K.,
Germany, France, Italy, Japan, Russia and Canada.  Silke Bruns, a Finance Ministry spokeswoman, said today
that the German government has a duty to prepare for a potential
Greek exit from the euro zone.  Greece’s credit rating was downgraded one level late
yesterday by  Fitch Ratings  amid concern that the country won’t
be able to muster the political support needed to sustain its
membership in the euro area.  “It’s pretty well known that whatever happens in Europe,
it’s probably going to have a negative impact on the  U.S.
economy ,” said Jacob Correll, a commodity analyst at Summit
Energy Inc. in Louisville, Kentucky. “The momentum for the
global crude complex in the short term is moving lower.”  ‘Extraordinary Importance’  President  Barack Obama  called the European debt crisis an
issue of “extraordinary importance” to the global economy and
said that fiscal responsibility should be coupled with policies
to promote growth. Obama made the comments after meeting with
French President  Francois Hollande  at the White House, hours
before they join other G-8 leaders at Camp David.  Consumer confidence in the U.S. dropped last week to the
lowest level since the end of January, the New York-based
Conference Board said yesterday. The Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic  index  shrank in May, a separate
report on that day showed.  U.S. crude oil supplies rose 2.13 million barrels to 381.6
million in the week ended May 11, the highest since 1990, the
Energy Department said May 16. Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma ,
the delivery point for New York futures, increased 1 million
barrels to a record 45.1 million.  Seaway Pipeline  The reversed Seaway pipeline will initially be able to
deliver 150,000 barrels a day of oil from Cushing to the Gulf
Coast, relieving the supply glut in the center of the U.S.
Capacity on the 500-mile (805-kilometer), 30-inch line will
increase to more than 400,000 barrels a day in the first
quarter of 2013, the companies said in a statement yesterday.  The fall in oil accelerated after U.S. equities dropped as
Facebook Inc.’s record initial public offering failed to boost
market confidence. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.7
percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 0.6 percent.  Prices surged to $110.55 on March 1, the highest intraday
level since May 4, 2011, on concern that Western sanctions aimed
at halting  Iran’s nuclear program  would disrupt Middle East
crude shipments. Iran and the world powers broke a 15-month
stalemate during talks April 14 in Istanbul. Negotiations are
set to resume May 23 in Baghdad.  Emergency Reserves  Obama and the other G-8 leaders will assess the impact of
Iranian sanctions on  oil prices , National Security Adviser Tom Donilon said yesterday. The U.S. and its allies have weighed the
use of strategic oil reserves to protect the global economy as
they prepare for a European Union ban on Iranian imports taking
effect in July.  The  International Energy Agency  has no definite plan to
release fuel from its emergency reserves, said  David Fyfe , the
head of its oil industry and markets division, at a conference
in  London  today.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 513,949
contracts as of 4:16 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 636,371
contracts yesterday, 6.6 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.54 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  