-- Oil Set for Weekly Loss on Debt Crisis; Brent Falls to 2012 Low
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-18T12:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/oil-heads-for-weekly-loss-on-debt-crisis-brent-spread-narrows.html
Oil headed for a third weekly drop in
New York after Germany’s finance minister said  Europe ’s crisis
may last another two years and reports added to evidence of a
slowdown in  China . Brent fell to its lowest this year in London.  West Texas Intermediate futures were little changed, after
losing as much as 1 percent. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on France’s Europe 1 radio that “in 12 to 24
months we’ll see a calming of financial markets,” sending the
euro to a four-month low against the dollar.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and
 Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  reversed the Seaway pipeline to
alleviate a glut in the U.S. Midwest. In China,  home prices  fell
in a record number of cities last month and car dealers posted
inventory levels that foreshadowed deeper price cuts.  “The market is facing strong headwinds from the stronger
dollar and continuing concerns about the  euro zone , such as a
Greek exit, possible contagion, economic weakness and the
possibility of further downgrades,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head
of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Still,
the underlying physical market is tighter than the price
declines suggest.”  Crude for June delivery was at $92.40 a barrel, down 16
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:48 p.m.  London  time after falling as low as $91.60. The
contract yesterday slipped 25 cents to $92.56, the lowest close
since Nov. 2. Prices are 3.9 percent lower this week and down
6.5 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement dropped 28 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $107.21 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange after falling to $106.40, the lowest intraday
level this year. The  premium  of the European benchmark to WTI
for the same month was at $14.46. Earlier it narrowed to $13.62
a barrel, the least in two weeks, after the Seaway pipeline
reversal allowed oil to be diverted from its delivery point in
Cushing,  Oklahoma , to the  Gulf Coast .  Technical Support  Brent may drop to $99 a barrel, in line with low points
reached in August and September, after breaking through support
provided by a long-term trend-line, according to Stephanie Aymes, a technical analyst at Societe Generale SA in London.  Prices of new homes in China fell from a year earlier in 46
of the 70 cities tracked by the National Bureau of Statistics,
the agency said today. Dealerships for Honda Motor Co., Chery
Automobile Co., BYD Co. and  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175)  had
more than 45 days of inventory at the end of last month,
according to an official from the government-backed China
Automobile Dealers Association.  Euro Breakup Scenario  Greece’s credit rating was downgraded one level by Fitch
Ratings on concern that the country won’t be able to muster the
political support needed to sustain its membership in the euro
area. Nine Spanish lenders were cut three notches and seven were
kept on review for further reductions, Moody’s Investors Service
said yesterday in a statement, citing a recession and mounting
loan losses.  A “disorderly” breakup of the euro region could send
Brent as low as $60 a barrel, “due to the resulting sharp
European recession and negative global economic consequences,”
according to Bank of America Corp. The price may rebound to $120
if  Greece  successfully renegotiates its bailout package, the
bank said in a report dated yesterday.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index slid to minus 5.8 this month, the lowest reading since
September, from 8.5 in the previous month. The decline was the
first in eight months. Economists forecast the gauge would rise
to 10, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Supply Buildup  Brent’s premium to WTI narrowed as the reversal of the 500-
mile (880-kilometer) Seaway pipeline was completed. Enbridge and
Enterprise said yesterday they plan to start moving oil from
Cushing, Oklahoma, to Houston-area refineries this weekend.  The startup may ease a glut at Cushing, the delivery point
for WTI, where inventories rose 1 million barrels last week to a
record 45.1 million, according to Energy Department data. The
line will initially be able to deliver 150,000 barrels per day,
increasing to more than 400,000 in the first quarter of 2013,
the companies said.  New York  oil is still poised to decline next week as the
reversal of Seaway may not be enough to alleviate the buildup of
supplies in the central U.S., according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Nineteen of 34 analysts, or 56 percent, forecast prices
will drop through May 25. Nine respondents predicted futures
will rise and six estimated they will be little changed.  “The commentary out there still suggests we’ve got a
bearish tone,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of
Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney.
“Everyone is still concerned about what’s happening in Europe
and that adds to the demand destruction. It’s still mixed data
from the U.S., there’s nothing clean coming out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  