-- Hollande Urges Europe Aid to Recapitalize Spanish Banks
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-05-18T20:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/hollande-urges-europe-aid-to-recapitalize-spanish-banks.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
said Spanish banks should be recapitalized with Europe’s aid,
contradicting European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  who said the country can do that on its own.  “It would probably be desirable to have a
recapitalization,” Hollande said at a press conference in
Washington today when asked about Spanish banks. “It would
probably be necessary for this recapitalization to take place
through mechanisms of European solidarity.”  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s biggest lenders, were cut three levels by Moody’s
Investors Service yesterday, which cited a recession and
mounting loan losses in downgrading 16 of the nation’s banks.
Concern about the possible expense to the government of bailing
out banks’ real-estate losses has helped to drive up the
country’s borrowing costs.  “ Spain  is not comparable to, for instance, Ireland, which
had a banking sector many times larger compared to gross
domestic product” EU’s Rehn said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in London today. “Spain has the starting point that
it can deal with this challenge on its own without resorting to
European assistance.”  Spanish Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria
didn’t comment today when asked at a news conference whether the
government was considering seeking assistance from the European
Union to shore up lenders.  Hollande, who met with President Barack Obama earlier
today, also said France and Germany will do “everything” to
keep Greece in the euro zone. European leaders participating in
meetings of the Group of Eight nations at the Camp David retreat
in Maryland later today are probably going to have separate
discussions on this topic, he said.  Separately, Hollande said  France  is ready to use all tools
to keep oil prices stable, including backing use of strategic
reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Washington at  hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  