-- Morgan Stanley Upgraded by UBS as Bank’s Shares Decline
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-05-18T20:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/morgan-stanley-upgraded-by-ubs-as-bank-s-shares-decline.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, was upgraded to buy by  UBS AG (UBSN)  after the
firm’s shares dropped to a level Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  deemed “inexplicable.”  Drags on trading revenue from  Europe ’s debt crisis are
already reflected in the price of Morgan Stanley’s stock, which
has fallen 23 percent this month, UBS analysts led by Brennan Hawken said in a note to investors today. That valuation, less
than half the tangible book value, reflects “a very negative
outcome,” and the shares should rise about 30 percent, Hawken
wrote.  The bank may face lower trading revenue as client activity
dwindles and credit spreads widen, with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
analyst  Kian Abouhossein  estimating today that Morgan Stanley’s
fixed-income revenue may drop 31 percent. The lender’s stock has
also fallen because of concern that Moody’s may cut its  credit
rating  three levels and that the firm may face increased
regulation after JPMorgan’s $2 billion trading loss, Susquehanna
Financial Group’s Doug Sipkin wrote today.  “I find the  stock trading  around half-book to be a little
inexplicable, but these markets are fragile,” Gorman, 53, said
this week at the company’s annual meeting. “I believe in the
long-term strategy for our business, I’m very comfortable with
it, and I think we’re positioned well. Short-term, I’m not going
to lose any sleep over it.”  Tangible book value is the bank’s estimate of how much
money would remain if all its assets were liquidated and
liabilities paid off. The bank should trade between 60 percent
and 70 percent of adjusted tangible book value, Hawken said.  ‘Over Penalized’  Morgan Stanley fell 0.8 percent to close at $13.35 in New
York. The bank’s shares have dropped 26 percent since rising to
$18.07 on April 19, when the firm reported first-quarter results
that beat estimates. The stock is down 12 percent this year,
after falling 44 percent last year and 8.1 percent in 2010.  Morgan Stanley’s credit ratings may be reduced by as many
as three levels, the largest potential downgrade among U.S.
lenders, Moody’s has said. The ratings firm will take action by
the end of June, according to a statement last month.  “We believe investors have over penalized” Morgan
Stanley, Susquehanna’s Sipkin said, recommending investors buy
the bank’s shares and sell  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  stock. “With
respect to Moody’s, we believe a three-notch rating downgrade is
more than discounted in MS stock at this point.”  Credit Spreads Widen  A downgrade could force Morgan Stanley to post more
collateral on derivatives trades and pay more to borrow. Gorman
said last month the investment bank has taken steps to ensure
any fallout from a downgrade would be manageable, and Chief
Financial Officer Ruth Porat, 54, said the firm has liquidity of
$179 billion.  Morgan Stanley’s credit spreads have widened in the last
month, with credit-default swaps on the bank’s five-year senior
debt climbing to 454 basis points yesterday, the highest level
since November. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage
point.  “The financial sector has been under stress, and all of
the companies’ spreads aren’t where they’d ideally long-term
like them to be,” Gorman said this week.  International Strategy & Investment Group Inc.’s Ed Najarian cut his second-quarter earnings estimate by 17 cents
this week as he sees a 40 percent drop in fixed-income trading
revenue from the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  