-- Payrolls Increase in 32 States, Led by Indiana and Texas
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-18T15:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/payrolls-climbed-in-32-states-led-by-indiana-and-texas.html
Payrolls increased in 32 states in
April, while the unemployment rate dropped in 37, indicating the
labor market improved across much of the U.S.  Indiana led the nation with a 17,100 gain in payrolls,
followed by Texas with 13,200 more jobs. The jobless rate
dropped the most in  Arizona  and  Oklahoma  from the prior month.  The U.S. added the fewest number of workers in April, while
the jobless rate unexpectedly fell to a three-year low of 8.1
percent as people left the  labor force , data showed this month.
The world’s largest economy needs faster hiring to spur  consumer
spending  and to help reduce unemployment, which Federal Reserve
policy makers have said remains elevated.  “There has been improvement in the labor market,”  Millan Mulraine , senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities Inc. in  New
York , said before the report. “Employment is increasing.”  Nevada remained the state with the highest jobless rate
even after it dropped to 11.7 percent, its lowest level since
June 2009, from 12 percent in March. Unemployment in Rhode
Island climbed to 11.2 percent from 11.1 percent, putting it in
second place, followed by California at 10.9 percent.  North Dakota  had the lowest unemployment in the nation,
holding at 3 percent, followed by Nebraska, where it fell to 3.9
percent from 4 percent.  Less Unemployment  The jobless rate dropped to 8.2 percent in Arizona from 8.6
percent the prior month, and it decreased to 5 percent from 5.4
percent in Oklahoma.  Michigan  registered the biggest decline in joblessness over
the past 12 months, falling 2.2 percentage points to 8.3 percent
in April.  Rising demand for cars has prompted some companies to
expand their workforce. Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by Fiat SpA, is accelerating plans to increase output
at a sport-utility-vehicle plant in  Detroit , hiring 1,100
workers in November instead of early 2013. Dearborn, Michigan-
based Ford Motor Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. also will add shifts
at U.S. factories this year.  States showing a decline in employment included  Maryland ,
where payrolls dropped by 6,000, and Wisconsin, which showed a
5,900 decrease.  Different Surveys  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Payrolls in April climbed 115,000, the smallest gain since
October, while the jobless rate fell to 8.1 percent, the Labor
Department said on May 4.  Businesses that are trimming include Deutsche Telekom AG’s
T-Mobile USA unit, which plans to cut 900 jobs as part of a new
round of cost savings as the carrier restructures. The job
losses are a second set of reductions after the Bellevue,
Washington-based company said on March 22 it would eliminate
1,900 jobs tied to the closing of seven call centers.  Fed officials last month affirmed their plan to hold
 interest rates  near zero at least through late 2014 as they seek
to push down a jobless rate that has topped 8 percent for more
than three years. Minutes of the Fed’s April 24-25 meeting
released this week showed “most” participants “anticipated a
gradual decline in the  unemployment rate .”  Forecasts released by the central bank in April showed it
expects joblessness to fall to 7.8 percent to 8.0 percent by the
final three months of this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  