-- PDVSA Said to Have Sold $1 Billion of Bonds to Central Bank
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-05-18T20:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/pdvsa-said-to-have-sold-1-billion-of-bond-deal-to-central-bank.html
Venezuela ’s central bank bought $1
billion of the $3 billion bonds sold by state oil company
Petroleos de Venezuela SA as part of a private placement
announced on May 11, a company official said.  State-run banks bought the remaining $2 billion, the
official, who asked not to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak publicly, said in an interview in Caracas
yesterday.  Banco de Venezuela , Venezuela’s largest bank, led
purchases by buying $800 million, the official said.  PDVSA sold the 23-year bonds with an  interest rate  of 9.75
percent, higher than the 9 percent coupon on bonds sold in
November. The  Finance Ministry  set the conditions in order to
maintain the so-called implicit  exchange rate  when the bonds,
which were bought in bolivars, are sold abroad for greenbacks,
the official said. The central bank supplies U.S. currency to
importers by selling dollar bonds through the Sitme currency
market at 5.3 bolivars per dollar.  Armando Leon , a central bank director, declined to comment
on the allocation of the bonds in an interview in Caracas today.
Officials at Banco de Venezuela didn’t immediately return an e-
mail seeking comment. PDVSA’s communications department said it
had no information on the bond sale.  The securities due in 2035 won’t trade in secondary markets
abroad for several months until the central bank, and state
banks, begin to sell them through Sitme, the PDVSA official
said.  November Sale  PDVSA’s last sale, which was issued directly to the central
bank, was $2.4 billion of 9 percent bonds due in 2021. Those
bonds were sold in November and began trading in Sitme in
January. The  oil company  sold $10.3 billion of bonds last year,
including securities with an interest rate as high as 12.75
percent.  “PDVSA did well to lower the coupon from when they sold
bonds at 12.75 percent,” Leon said. “If it had gone to market
earlier the coupon could have been lower.”  The yield on the 2021 bonds fell 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 14.25 percent at 3:43 p.m. in Caracas,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose
0.68 cents to 73.13 cents on the dollar.  The Caracas-based oil company said April 17 that  profit 
rose 42 percent in 2011 from a year earlier to $4.5 billion on
$124.8 billion of revenue. Total debt rose to $34.9 billion at
year end, a 40 percent jump from 2010.  Alternative Financing  PDVSA probably won’t sell more dollar bonds this year as
the political environment becomes more turbulent ahead of
October elections and after the company secured private loans
from  China ,  Japan  and  Korea , he said.  PDVSA has also agreed to form a special-purpose vehicle
with a group of banks led by Deutsche Bank AG to finance a $500
million electricity plant in eastern Venezuela, the official
said. PDVSA would repay the loan with crude oil and refined
products, and the accord will be made public by the end of June,
he said.  Amanda Williams , a spokeswoman at Deutsche Bank in  New
York , said she didn’t have an immediate comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  