-- Pennsylvania Leads U.S. in Gaming With Tax Windfall
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-05-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/pennsylvania-leads-u-s-in-gaming-with-tax-windfall.html
Ralph Attarian, a 47-year-old caddy,
puffed cigarettes as he played a penny slot machine in
Philadelphia’s SugarHouse Casino, adding to the pot of money
that has helped  Pennsylvania  reap more tax revenue from gambling
than any state for three years running.  “I just come here to kill some time,” he said one weekday
morning as he tried his luck 2,500 miles (4,000 kilometers) from
the  Las Vegas Strip . Players such as Attarian are proving a
windfall for Pennsylvania, which is using the revenue to
diversify its tax base and ease property levies.  “It ends up making you less reliant on taxing residential
real estate,” said John Donaldson, director of fixed income at
Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust Co. “In this cycle,
residential real estate was one of those things hit the
hardest.”  The Keystone State is one of 22 raking in casino gambling
 tax revenue . Yet its tax rates on the games are as much as seven
times higher than  Nevada ’s. In 2011, Pennsylvania took in almost
$1.5 billion from the industry as table games introduced in 2010
added to the cash generated by slots, according to an American
Gaming Association survey. Nevada’s $865 million take ranked it
second, according to the group, which doesn’t count casinos run
by American Indian tribes. Indiana came in third.  Atlantic City’s Loss  The 9.6 percent increase in Pennsylvania receipts came
partly at the expense of  Atlantic City , as New Jersey’s casino
tax revenue fell 9.1 percent to $278 million last year, the
survey shows. The gain also occurred as new competition arose in
neighboring states such as  Maryland .  Pennsylvania’s first casino opened in 2006. The growth has
helped restrain residential property taxes in Pennsylvania, with
$782.5 million of gaming proceeds slated to go toward credits
against levies for local school districts, according to a state
estimate. Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, has proposed a
fiscal 2013 budget that cuts spending to about $27.1 billion
from $27.2 billion this year.  Cash produced by Pennsylvania’s 55 percent tax on slot-
machine revenue also flows to local governments and the horse
racing industry, said Richard McGarvey, a spokesman for the
Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board. Nevada’s gambling tax rate
peaks at 7.75 percent.  “If you’re getting a billion dollars of revenue, that’s
good news for investors if you have an administration that’s
going to be aggressive about cutting the budget,” said Chris Mier, managing director at Loop Capital Markets LLC in  Chicago .  Beating New Jersey  Debt of Pennsylvania issuers has outperformed securities
from neighboring  New Jersey .  Pennsylvania state and local tax-exempt securities yield
about 2.39 percent,  similar to  those from New Jersey, Bloomberg
Fair Value data show. That’s a change from the past five years,
when Pennsylvania issuers’ yields averaged about 0.09 percentage
point higher than New Jersey’s.  Increasing gambling options in neighboring states won’t
damp revenue prospects from Pennsylvania’s “highly
competitive” facilities, said Bill Lerner, a Union Gaming Group
analyst in  Las Vegas .  “The table-game business in Pennsylvania is still ramping
up,” he said by telephone, referring to activities such as
roulette and poker. “It’s a solid market, with good product.”  Pennsylvania “certainly helped to fill a void” for the
mid-Atlantic region and the gaming companies fostered excitement
by staggering casino openings, said Holly Wetzel, a spokeswoman
for the Washington-based gaming industry association.  2010 Debut  SugarHouse, which opened in 2010, contributed to a 21
percent annual increase in  consumer spending  in such venues last
year, according to the gaming group. Pennsylvania’s 11th casino
opened in March, McGarvey said, and the law permits four more.  Players are coming from markets that include those feeding
casinos in Atlantic City, said Eric Schippers, a spokesman for
Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-based  Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN)  The
company runs the Hollywood Casino in Grantville, about 15 miles
from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania’s capital.  “These facilities have provided a new entertainment option
for people to go out and spend their discretionary dollars,”
Schippers said. Consumer spending on gaming fell 7 percent in
New Jersey to $3.32 billion last year, according to the industry
group. New Jersey’s tax on the receipts is about 10 percent.  Hollywood, which opened in 2008, ranks third in revenue
among Penn National’s 26 North American venues, Schippers said.
Pennsylvania lawmakers designated gaming licenses for locations
throughout the state so the sites “weren’t cannibalizing one
other,” he said.  As more casinos have opened, industry employment rose to
about 15,000 in 2011 from about 8,000 in 2009, according to a
state gaming control board report.  Pennsylvania’s 2011 casino revenue was more than three
times the $419.4 million it collected through taxes attributable
to oil and gas drilling, according to the state Revenue
Department.  Following are pending sales:  VIRGINIA TRANSPORTATION BOARD plans to borrow $600 million
of revenue debt as soon as this month through competitive bid.
Proceeds will help finance capital projects, according to
documents from the board’s April 18 meeting. The bonds will
mature annually from 2013 through 2037. (Added May 18)  MASSACHUSETTS is set to issue $350 million of general-
obligation bonds as soon as next week to help finance capital
projects. The debt will price competitively. The longest
maturity for the bonds is 2042, according to offering documents.
Standard & Poor’s rates Massachusetts AA+, second-highest.
(Added May 18)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  