-- Peru Yields Post Biggest Weekly Rise in Seven Months on Europe
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-05-18T20:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/peru-yields-post-biggest-weekly-rise-in-seven-months-on-europe.html
Peru ’s dollar-denominated bond yields
posted their biggest weekly increase since September as European
fiscal and political turmoil discouraged demand for emerging-
market assets.  Yields on the nation’s benchmark 6.55 percent dollar bonds
due in March 2037 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 4.50 percent at 3:10 p.m. in Lima. They extended their
weekly increase to 15 basis points, the steepest since the five
days ended Sept. 23. The bond’s price has fallen 2.76 cents from
a week ago to 130.49 cents per dollar.  “You have a risk crisis with some levels of contagion with
other countries in the south of Europe,” said  Alejandro Grisanti , an analyst at Barclays Plc in  New York . Investors are
selling assets “to seek refuge in U.S. Treasuries,” he said.  The sol weakened 0.6 percent to 2.67 per  U.S. dollar  this
week and declined 0.1 percent in trading today, according to
Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said financial
turmoil may last another two years, adding to concern Europe’s
crisis is worsening. Greece’s credit rating was cut one level to
CCC from B- by Fitch Ratings yesterday on concern the
politically deadlocked country may not be able to sustain its
euro membership.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered the debt ratings of 16
Spanish banks yesterday, citing mounting loan losses and a
national recession.  Peru’s central bank sold dollar repurchase agreements for
the first time ever yesterday to ease a shortage of greenbacks
amid demand for a refuge in the U.S. currency and after a May 1
increase in  reserve requirements .  The bank sold $50 million of one-day agreements yielding
5.5 percent yesterday. Today it sold $200 million of agreements
maturing in seven-days at 4.8 percent, and $200 million maturing
in three days at 6.45 percent, the bank said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  