-- Philippine Peso Rises From 2-Month Low as Drop Excessive
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-05-18T08:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/philippine-peso-rises-from-2-month-low-as-drop-excessive.html
The Philippine peso had its biggest
weekly loss in eight months and bonds declined as  Europe ’s debt
crisis reignited concern that global economic growth will falter,
damping demand for emerging-market assets.  Money sent home by Filipinos living overseas rose 5 percent
in March, the least in a year, the central bank reported on May
15. Moody’s Investors Service lowered the debt ratings of 16
Spanish banks yesterday, while Greece’s credit status was
reduced by one level by  Fitch Ratings  amid rising speculation
the country will exit the euro.  “We don’t see any significant rebound in Asian currencies
in the near term as long as the Greek problem is still in the
picture,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , a Singapore-based economist at
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. “Growth is going to take a big
hit if all these factors blow out of proportion.”  The peso dropped 1.6 percent this week to 43.247 per dollar
at the close in  Manila , the worst performance since the period
ended Sept. 16, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency
fell 0.8 percent today. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, climbed 125 basis
points, or 1.25 percentage points, to 6.75 percent during the
five days.  The yield on the  Philippines ’ 5.75 percent bonds due
November 2021 rose seven basis points from May 11 to 5.495
percent, according to prices from Tradition Financial Services.
The yield added three basis points today.  The Philippine central bank is monitoring “possible
effects of deleveraging” in Europe and other economies that may
affect domestic funding, Governor Amando Tetangco said in an e-
mail today. The foreign-exchange rate is “within a reasonable
range” even as recent developments in  Greece  “have deepened
the risk of contagion,” weakening risk appetite, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  