-- Pilot Rest Rule Exempting UPS, FedEx to Be Reconsidered
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-05-18T19:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/pilot-fatigue-rule-reconsidered-as-faa-discloses-errors.html
A regulation exempting pilots at
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  from new rules to
combat fatigue will be reviewed after the U.S. government
disclosed errors in its analysis of costs and benefits.  The  Federal Aviation Administration , responding to a
lawsuit by UPS pilots challenging the exemption, said in a court
 filing  that it discovered unspecified errors behind its
conclusion that the rule would be too costly for cargo airlines.  “This is the type of relief we asked the court to
provide,” William Trent, a lawyer for the Independent Pilots
Association, said in an e-mailed statement. “A flawed cost-
benefit formula, issued at the last minute, without opportunity
for public comment and examination, was at the core of our legal
objections to the FAA’s exclusion of cargo pilots from new
science-based pilot rest rules.”  The agency discovered that the cost to the cargo industry
was underestimated because some items weren’t included in the
analysis, according to an FAA official who wasn’t authorized to
provide the information. That may indicate the rule won’t be
altered.  The errors were inadvertent and don’t affect the portions
of the rule that apply to passenger airlines, the FAA said in an
e-mailed statement today.  “The FAA will ask an outside group to review the cargo
analysis and then will reissue the cargo analysis for public
comment,” it said.  Cost Calculations  UPS will wait until the new analysis is released before
commenting, Kara Ross, a spokeswoman for the company, said in a
phone interview. The carrier agreed with the government that
cargo pilots shouldn’t have to follow passenger-pilot rules,
Ross said.  FedEx believes it’s unrealistic to apply the rules to
cargo, Maury Donahue, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The FAA created new restrictions in December on the hours
passenger-airline pilots can fly in an attempt to reduce
fatigue. The regulations for the first time take into account
the time of day pilots work and number of takeoffs and landings,
both of which can exacerbate fatigue.  A law passed in 2010 ordered the FAA to revamp decades-old
pilot work rules after fatigue issues surfaced in the Feb. 12,
2009, crash near Buffalo, involving a plane operated by  Pinnacle
Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ) ’s Colgan Air. The crash killed 50 people.  The law didn’t differentiate between passenger or cargo
pilots and the FAA’s initial proposal would have included both.  OMB Weighs Costs  After review by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget,
an arm of the White House, the final rule concluded the benefits
of improving pilot safety at cargo carriers weren’t worth the
expense. Costs are based primarily on the loss of life in
crashes, so cargo accidents are inherently less costly under the
formula.  Representatives of pilot unions, passenger airlines, cargo
carriers, the FAA and other interested parties met 12 times with
officials at OMB and its Office of Information and Regulatory
Affairs between July and November, according to  records  on the
OIRA website.  OIRA Administrator Cass Sunstein has emphasized the
importance of ensuring that the benefits of rule-making outweigh
costs so economic growth isn’t impeded.  “I don’t believe you’ll see a single rule issued in the
last eight months that fails cost-benefit analysis,” Sunstein
told a congressional committee in September.  Transparency Sought  The rule-making process was transparent until the proposed
regulation went to OMB for review, Brian Gaudet, a spokesman for
the  IPA , said in a phone interview.  “This is basically bringing this back out to the light of
day,” Gaudet said.  The government asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Washington for permission to reopen the rule-making process with
a corrected cost-benefit analysis. It will then grant unions,
industry groups and the public a chance to comment on the
analysis, the filing said.  The FAA’s  filing  doesn’t say the government intends to
overturn the cargo exemption.  “These errors are of sufficient amount that the FAA
believes that it is prudent to review the portion of its cost-
benefit analysis related to all-cargo operations and allow
interested parties an opportunity to comment on that analysis,”
the government said in the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  