-- Playoff Trifecta Means Windfall Curbed by L.A. Traffic
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-05-18T04:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/playoff-trifecta-means-windfall-curbed-by-l-a-traffic.html
Los Angeles  hosts three playoff
series this weekend, a boon for downtown’s Staples Center and a
preview of the potential traffic gridlock that a proposed
football stadium would add to the mix.  Basketball’s Los Angeles Lakers and Clippers and hockey’s
Los Angeles Kings will play five more games over three days at
the venue, owned by billionaire  Philip Anschutz ’s AEG Worldwide.
The eight-day, 750-mile  Amgen  Tour of California bicycling race
also will finish outside the arena on May 20.  For the weekend at least, the confluence of events has
turned the teams’ shared home into the hub of a $5 billion-a-
year sports economy in the second-largest U.S. city.  The games
mark the first time ever that three Los Angeles professional
winter sports franchises have simultaneously advanced past the
first round of the playoffs.  “You can certainly say this has been a good thing for
Staples Center,” said  David Simon , president of the Los Angeles
Sports Council, a non-profit group. “You have three teams
playing deep into May, and that’s never happened in the history
of this building.”  While the games will draw thousands downtown, they won’t
necessarily buoy the regional economy, since most spectators
will be locals who would otherwise spend money on food,
entertainment and merchandise elsewhere in the region, said
Simon, who estimates a $5 billion annual sports impact.  Unless one of the teams goes to the championship round, the
games are unlikely to draw much money from outside Los Angeles,
Simon said.  Smog, Congestion  That leaves traffic, a constant irritant in a city that
consistently ranks among the worst in the U.S. in congestion and
air-quality studies. About 250,000 additional visitors will show
up downtown over the weekend, Commander  Andrew Smith , a
spokesman for the  Los Angeles Police Department , said by
telephone.  Police and other city and state agencies have developed
plans to coordinate traffic around Staples Center and facilitate
the flow of cars to and from freeways, Smith said. The bicycle
race, owned by Los Angeles-based AEG and sponsored by  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN) , the  Thousand Oaks , California-based biotech company, will
defray overtime costs, he said.  “We are used to handling large events like this,” Smith
said. “The only difference here is that we have a bunch of them
stacked back-to-back.”  In addition to Staples, AEG owns the  National Hockey
League ’s Kings and a stake in the Lakers. The company’s proposal
for a 72,000-seat football stadium, Farmers Field, adjacent to
Staples Center and the Los Angeles Convention Center has stirred
debate over traffic and other issues.  ‘Learning Opportunity’  “With Farmers Field opening, it’s going to cause a more
rapid succession of events downtown,” said the LAPD’s Smith.
“This is a good learning opportunity for us.”  Los Angeles City Councilwoman Jan Perry, whose district
includes Staples Center, said she’ll monitor traffic and crowds
over the weekend to get a taste of what to expect at Farmers
Field.  “I want to see how it is with all these venues
activated,” Perry said by telephone. “I want to see how the
traffic patterns go.”  Los Angeles is the only city home to a combination of three
NHL or NBA teams, and this is the first time all three reached
the second round of the playoffs in the same year. Even the two
NBA teams never before had advanced simultaneously.  Staples Center was the scene last night as the Kings beat
the Phoenix Coyotes 2-1 on Dwight King’s tiebreaking goal in the
third period. They took a 3-0 advantage in the best-of- seven
series.  Tonight the Lakers, led by 14-time All-Star  Kobe Bryant ,
will be looking to climb out of a 2-0 hole in their best-of-
seven matchup with the Oklahoma City Thunder.  Packed Schedule  Each weekend day has two games. Tomorrow the Clippers and
 San Antonio Spurs , who lead their series 2-0 after last night’s
105-88 win, take the court at 12:30 p.m. Los Angeles time. The
Thunder and Lakers play Game 4 at 7:30 p.m.  May 20 may pose the biggest challenge. Police will close
streets downtown until the finish of the bike race outside of
Staples Center, before the Kings and Coyotes take the ice at
noon. Arena personnel likely will be rooting for the game to end
in regulation, giving them time to lay down the hardwood for the
Clippers-Spurs Game 4, scheduled to start at 7:30 p.m.  While surprising, the teams’ collective success has
generated excitement. The Lakers have missed the postseason only
four times since moving from Minneapolis in 1960. This year
marks the Clippers’ fifth playoff appearance since relocating
from  San Diego  in 1984.  Happy Days  The Kings’ lone Stanley Cup Final appearance came in 1993,
when they lost 4-1 to the  Montreal Canadiens .  “For AEG, you’re the happiest corporation in the world,”
Victor Matheson, an economist at the  College of the Holy Cross 
in Worcester,  Massachusetts , who has studied impact estimates of
sports events, said in a telephone interview.  Michael Roth , a spokesman for Los Angeles-based AEG,
declined to comment on the how much extra revenue the company
anticipates. He said the playoffs help compensate for the
shortened regular seasons for both the Clippers and Lakers due
to the National Basketball Association lockout.  “These types of events are a win for everybody,” Roth
said by telephone. “Our 1,000-room hotel is completely booked.
You won’t be able to get a table at any of our restaurants.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  