-- Princetons Finds Merger Vote Easy Part of Consolidation
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/princetons-finds-merger-vote-easy-part-as-other-n-j-towns-wait.html
Combining the two New Jersey
communities that share the Princeton name is testing Governor
 Chris Christie ’s effort to get the state’s patchwork of 566
cities and towns to merge governments.  Voters in 1.9-square-mile Princeton Borough, which includes
the downtown shopping area, and the surrounding 16.6-square-mile
Princeton Township approved consolidation in November, after at
least three earlier referendums failed. Elected officials have
been meeting at least once a week as they face a Jan. 1 deadline
to decide on everything from how many people to fire to which
municipal buildings to spare.  Christie, 49, a first-term Republican, is pushing
consolidation after cutting municipal aid in 2010 and capping
annual increases in local taxes at 2 percent. Princeton, home of
the Ivy League university, agreed to merge after the governor
endorsed the plan and offered to pay 20 percent of the $1.7
million cost of combining. He has promised to do the same for
those who follow Princeton’s lead.  “This is a test case for the principles he’s basing the
economic future of the state on,” said  Brigid Harrison , a
professor of law and politics at  Montclair State University .
“If it fails, it’s going to be held up by the home-rule folks
as proof of why it doesn’t work.”  Governors in  Ohio ,  Michigan  and New Jersey say their states
have too many layers of government and that unwinding them would
save money without harming services. Christie, during a May 16
town-hall meeting in East Hanover, said consolidation has been a
slow process and “it’s not like ripping the Band-Aid off.”  Home Rule  “What I’m trying to do is get towns to decide how much
they love home rule and how much they’re willing to pay for
it,” Christie said. “Taxpayers have had enough and they want
government to start solving these problems.’  New Jersey  residents paid an average $7,759 in property
taxes in 2011, the highest burden in the nation. The state has
more than 1,000 local-government units, including towns, school
districts and counties that rely on the levy for revenue.  Princeton, located halfway between  New York  City and
Philadelphia, has been two towns since 1894, when its center
seceded amid a school-funding dispute. There are about 30,000
residents in the combined community.  Town History  Until last year, many borough residents had resisted a
merger, saying the needs of those who live near the pedestrian
downtown areas would be outweighed by voices in the larger, more
rural township. In November, the measure passed by 61 percent in
the borough and 85 percent in the township.  ‘‘I’m still pretty new here, but there has got to be a more
efficient way to run things,” borough resident Pam Hughes, 70,
a retired music teacher who moved from  Colorado  two years ago to
be closer to her family, said in an interview.  A long-standing belief that decisions affecting towns
should be made locally has kept communities from taking the
steps to merge, said Harrison of Montclair State. The costs of
running government have gotten so oppressive that some
communities are beginning to rethink past objections, she said.  “The political culture of this state is vested in home
rule and in some ways that’s irrational,” she said in a
telephone interview. “Those home-rule principles tend to run
deep in the veins of New Jersey’s voters and they tend to be
very protectionist about their local governments.”  $3.1 Million  The Center for Governmental Research, a Rochester, New
York-based nonprofit organization that advised the Princetons on
consolidating,  estimated  the combination will save as much as
$3.1 million a year, largely from uniting the police
departments, which each have about 30 officers.  The towns already share one school district and more than a
dozen services, including animal control and fire. Police is the
largest cost for both, $3.5 million in the borough and $3.8
million in the township, according to the center. Their 2010
budgets combined totaled $65.1 million.  The center recommended that the towns reduce the number of
police officers to 51 from 60 within three years, and fire
another three employees. A reorganization plan proposed May 16
doesn’t call for eliminating police. It suggests shedding 15
redundant positions, including administrators, chief financial
officers, clerks, code officials and backhoe drivers.  Duplicate Positions  Severance pay and unused sick and vacation payouts may
result in a one-time cost of as much as $527,000, according to
the  task force  recommending merger decisions. Attrition will
save money in future years, said Scott Sillars, vice president
of the group, which includes citizens and elected officials.  “There will be some savings -- there’s just no way there
won’t be,” said Sillars, 57.  The new town council will decide which employees in
duplicate jobs will be kept. Nine candidates are running in a
June Democratic primary for six seats on the united governing
body. Two Democrats are running for mayor.  One person out of a job after Jan. 1 is Township Mayor Chad Goerner, a Democrat who championed the merger and isn’t running
for re-election. Goerner, 36, is also an institutional
consultant and vice president at UBS AG.  Princeton’s Democratic primary often serves as the de facto
election in two communities where voters backed Democrat  Jon Corzine  over Christie in 2009 and President  Barack Obama  in
2008. Merger decisions have been slowed by tension between
candidates in the borough and the township, Goerner said. The
process will move quickly after the primary, he said.  Buildings, Dispatch  The two municipalities have about $107 million of debt that
will be combined.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the borough AA+, the
second-highest grade, and the township its top AAA.  The task force on May 16 also recommended not offering
police retirement incentives, and seeking bids for dispatch
services. It suggested moving police and court operations to the
township’s municipal buildings. All of their suggestions need
approval from the borough and township councils.  “We’re going to get there -- it’s just going to take some
time,” said Barbara Trelstad, borough council president. “I
think we’ve got to.”  The Center for Governmental Research estimated tax savings
of $201 for the average borough property and $240 in the
township. The average property-tax bill in 2010 was $15,255 in
the borough and $16,212 in the township, with about 20 percent
going to the municipality, according to data from the New Jersey
Division of Local Government Services.  Tax Cap  Christie enacted a 2 percent cap on property taxes that
took effect at the beginning of 2011. The limit will force some
municipalities to merge or share more services, Christie said in
 East Hanover . He said he expects to propose legislation by the
end of June that would strip some state aid from towns that
don’t share services if they can do so with a neighbor.  Loch Arbour and Allenhurst, communities along the  Jersey
Shore  that combined have fewer than 800 residents, are
considering consolidation, while Scotch Plains and Fanwood in
Union County are seeking state approval to create a merger study
commission funded in part by grants, said Gina Genovese,
executive director of  Courage to Connect , a nonprofit group that
promotes municipal consolidation.  Cherry Hill  and Merchantville in Camden County are also
examining a merger, Genovese said in a telephone interview. A
Princeton success will rouse more towns to act, she said.  “It’s important that they go first because when you lay a
trail, it becomes easier for others to follow,” said Genovese,
a former mayor of Long Hill Township in Morris County. “They’ve
broken the logjam. If they can reduce property taxes in New
Jersey, that’s a model we need to replicate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  