-- PV Crystalox Doubles in London on Contract Settlement
-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-05-18T15:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/pv-crystalox-cuts-shipment-forecast-30-after-wafer-prices-skid.html
PV Crystalox Solar Plc (PVCS) , a maker of
solar wafers and ingots for photovoltaic panels, more than
doubled in London after saying it will get a 90 million-euro
($114 million) cash settlement for ending a customer’s contract.  The  stock  rose a record 121 percent to 9.45 pence. The
pretax gain will be booked as income in the first half, the
company said today in a filing. The payment to break the
contract with an unidentified customer is more than triple the
24.6 million euros of pretax income the company had in the first
half of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  PV Crystalox, based in Abingdon,  England , is set to book
more revenue from not selling than from selling this year, an
indication of how solar component makers are reeling as prices
plunge due to factory overcapacity and cheaper Chinese imports.
Spot wafer prices tumbled 70 percent since April 2011 “and are
below industry production costs,” the company said today.  “This money allows PV Crystalox to either survive for
longer in tough markets or to return cash to shareholders,”
Andrew Shepherd-Barron, an analyst at Peel Hunt in  London , said
by phone. “Investors may say, ‘We’d like some of that money
back, in the form of a dividend or buyback.’”  Shepherd-Barron raised his recommendation to buy from hold
today.  Solar companies have renegotiated or torn up contracts with
customers, sometimes for a break fee, because the spot price for
components such as wafers or cells has fallen several times
below their multiyear contracted sales price. Even after today’s
increase, PV Crystalox shares have plunged 95 percent from a
high of 199 pence in June 2008.  Contract Talks  PV Crystalox is talking with other customers about changing
or ending their contracts. They are for less money than the
settlement announced today, which was struck in a deal outside
of continuing arbitration, company board Secretary Matthew Wethey said in an interview.  “This is by far the biggest one,” Wethey said. The board
is considering various options for using the 90 million euros,
and a dividend or a buyback are two of many alternatives being
considered, he said.  Separately, PV Crystalox today cut its forecast for first-
half shipments by about 30 percent. The company reduced its
estimate to 55 megawatts to 70 megawatts from a previous 80
megawatt to 100 megawatt forecast because of the “extremely
challenging” market to sell its products.  “As a result of this adverse pricing environment, we have
to date been unable to reach agreement on acceptable wafer
prices and volumes” for the second quarter of this year with
some of the company’s contract customers, the solar-wafer maker
said.  Production of polysilicon, a principal component for its
products, remains suspended at PV Crystalox’s plant in
Bitterfeld,  Germany , the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Todd White  at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net ; 