-- Rand Rebounds From 5-Month Low as Charts Signal Decline Overdone
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-18T14:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/rand-slumps-to-five-month-low-on-europe-debt-crisis-u-s-data.html
The rand gained, rebounding from a
five-month low against the dollar, as technical indicators
signaled its recent decline had come too fast. Bonds gained as
investors trimmed expectations of an interest-rate increase.  South Africa ’s currency advanced 0.1 percent to 8.3251 per
dollar, paring its retreat this week to 2.7 percent, the worst
five-day performance since April 6. The yield on the nation’s
6.75 percent bonds due 2021 dropped for a third day, falling 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 7.63 percent.  The 14-day relative strength index for the rand against the
dollar fell to 26, the lowest since September. It has been below
the “oversold” 30 level every day this week. The rand’s
stochastics oscillator fell to 8, also below the 30 threshold
that signals it may be oversold. The South African currency
today failed to break through a so-called resistance level,
where traders cluster orders to buy the currency, at 8.45 per
dollar, according to George Glynos, an economist at
Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics.  Failure to breach 8.45 per dollar may trigger a “strong
reversal” for the rand, Glynos said in e-mailed comments. “The
rand remains undervalued relative to base fundamentals” though
markets remain “in fear mode”, he added.  The rand declined as much as 1.3 percent in earlier
trading, tracking falling equity markets and a weakening euro as
 Europe ’s debt crisis worsened, curbing appetite for riskier
assets.  Equity Losses  Almost $4 trillion has been wiped from global equity
markets this month as Europe’s deepening crisis threatens the
global recovery. Moody’s Investors Service lowered debt
assessments of 16 Spanish banks, while  Fitch Ratings  cut
 Greece ’s credit rating on concern the country may not be able to
sustain euro membership.  “With risk-off sentiment continuing to rise, the rotation
towards safe-haven assets will continue to benefit the dollar,
while the euro continues to slide, along with commodity prices
and commodity currencies,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist
at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “With developments in Europe still the main driving
force, further weakness is in the offing” for the rand, she
wrote.  The euro sank to a four-month low against the dollar,
depreciating as much as 0.3 percent. The rand often moves in
tandem with the euro as the euro region is South Africa’s
largest trading partner, accounting for 22 percent of the
country’s exports last year, according to government data.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index slid to minus 5.8 in May, the lowest reading since
September. Data today showed  China ’s home prices fell in a
record number of cities in April.  Local Bonds  Local-currency bonds gained as investors pared bets on a
central bank interest-rate increase in the next year. Forward-
rate agreements starting in 12 months dropped 10 basis points
today to 5.67 percent, the lowest since January.  The yield difference between inflation-linked bonds
maturing in 2013 and fixed-rate notes of similar maturity
dropped 2.5 basis points today to 6.12 percent, indicating
traders are tempering inflation expectations as the euro-region
economy falters.  “The fragile situation in the  euro zone  continues to be
the dominant driver in our market,” Thando Vokwana, an analyst
at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments.  The yield on South Africa’s $1 billion of 5.875 percent
bonds due 2022 climbed one basis point to 4.03 percent, widening
the extra yield investors demand to hold the debt rather than
U.S. Treasuries by five basis points to 228 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  