-- Transneft Opposes Increasing Dividend Before 2015, RenCap Says
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-05-18T09:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/transneft-opposes-increasing-dividend-before-2015-rencap-says.html
OAO Transneft management opposes
increasing the Russian oil pipeline operator’s dividend payouts
before 2015, according to  Renaissance Capital , a Moscow-based
investment bank.  Transneft will seek to keep its current dividend policy
during the period because of the investment needed to finish
pipeline construction projects, RenCap analysts led Ildar
Davletshin wrote in note today, citing company First Vice
President Maxim Grishanin.  “It is possible that investors may not see any positive
changes for quite some time,” the analysts wrote after a
briefing yesterday with Grishanin. The final decision on
dividends depends on the government.  President  Vladimir Putin  has pushed the state-owned company
to expand export capacity, including  Russia ’s first pipeline
from Siberia to Asia Pacific markets and a link to the  Baltic
Sea  that bypasses Belarus, a transit nation for supplies to
 Europe . Russia, the world’s largest oil producer, has raised
output by over 57 percent since Putin took office in 2000.  Transneft plans to reduce spending to 107.6 billion rubles
($3.4 billion) this year from 152.5 billion rubles in 2011,
according to an investor  presentation  posted on the company’s
website. The company plans to finish the second phase of the
East Siberia-Pacific Ocean, or ESPO, link, which is being
extended to the port of Kozmino this year.  Paying Debt  Transneft will spend $1.5 billion this year paying down
debt used to fund projects, Grishanin said yesterday. The
company isn’t seeking additional increases to transit rates, its
main source of revenue, this year and expects annual increases
of 5 percent for the next three years, he said.  The pipeline operator plans to continue paying 10 percent
of net income based on Russian accounting standards as dividends
on preferred shares, and 15 percent on common shares, all of
which are state owned. The Economy Ministry proposed requiring
state-run companies to pay 25 percent of net income, possibly
under International Financial Reporting Standards, the Vedomosti
newspaper reported in March.  Transneft opposes a plan for the state to sell a stake,
saying the government’s sale of a 3 percent of its shares would
violate loan covenants with  China , Grishanin said.  China agreed in 2009 to lend $10 billion to Transneft and
$15 billion to OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, in
return for a 20-year supply agreement to provide 300,000 barrels
a day of crude. Transneft made Russia’s first pipeline
deliveries of oil to China via a spur from ESPO on Jan. 1, 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  