-- Rare DNA Mutations Raise Question Theories of Disease
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   R e g   G a l e
-- 2012-05-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/rare-dna-mutations-raise-question-theories-of-disease.html
Rare DNA mutations are so plentiful
in the human genome that they make it difficult to precisely
identify the genetic switches that cause many common human
diseases, two studies found.  The data, released yesterday in the journal  Science , shows
that the vast majority of genetic variations found in people are
rare and evolutionarily recent. Well-known DNA variations that
are common across large populations probably don’t widely affect
many illnesses, the authors said.  The research means it may be more difficult to isolate the
roots of ailments such as diabetes and heart disease, and cures
will be more elusive, said  Joshua Akey , associate professor of
genome sciences at the  University of Washington  in Seattle and
an author of the study.  “The task of correlating individual variants with
particular diseases is probably more complicated than we would
have anticipated a few years ago,” Akey said in an interview.
“It’s exciting because we’re starting to see patterns of
variation we were never able to access before because the
technology wasn’t there, and it’s frustrating because we don’t
know what it means.”  In a study of 2,440 people from Europe and  Africa , the
researchers discovered about a half-million mutations, most of
which were rare, novel or population-specific. The second
effort, led by Matthew Nelson and Vincent Mooser of London-based
drugmaker  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , targeted DNA that was already
considered to have potential for medical development.  Personalized Medicine  The findings highlight issues involved in the trend toward
personalized medicine, in which drugmakers seek to determine
whether a patient is genetically susceptible to a particular
disease or would be especially responsive to certain treatments.
More than 72 such therapies are available now, a fivefold
increase from the 13 available in 2006, according to the
Personalized Medicine Coalition, an industry advocacy group
based in  Washington .  “It could have significant implications for our health and
medicine,”  Eric Topol , director of the Scripps Translational
Science Institute in  La Jolla ,  California , said in an interview.
“That whole common-disease, common-variant theory continues to
have holes punched in it.”  Last month a different study concluded sequencing the
genomes of patients to reveal what ailments might mar their
futures wasn’t the best predictor for the most common diseases.  Twins Study  That study didn’t sequence individuals. Instead,
researchers collected data from thousands of identical twins in
five countries and used a computer model to determine the
effectiveness of genome sequencing. They concluded most people
would get negative results from having their genome sequenced
for all except one of 24 identified conditions, including  heart
disease , diabetes and Alzheimer’s.  The key for future disease research is obtaining large
amounts of genomic sequencing data from many individuals,   Jacob
Tennessen , a researcher at  Oregon State University  in Corvalis
and lead author of the study, said in an interview. That, in
itself, leads to other concerns, he said.  “The hard part is not getting the data, the hard part is
analyzing the data,” Tennessen said. “We’re going to have so
much information that figuring out the computational resources
that we need to create to analyze the data, and the
statistically tests we need to analyze the data, that’s going to
be the hard part.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in  New York  at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  