-- Treasuries Fall as Yields Damp Demand Before Auctions
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-05-18T21:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/treasuries-fall-as-yields-damp-demand-before-auctions-next-week.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year note
yields up from almost a record low, as investors bet price gains
were overdone before the U.S. sells $99 billion of coupon-
bearing debt next week.  Benchmark notes posted a ninth  weekly gain , the longest
streak since 1998, after Moody’s Investors Service cut the
credit ratings of 16 Spanish banks, citing economic weakness and
the government’s mounting budget strain, and  Fitch Ratings 
downgraded  Greece . The  10-year yield  erased gains earlier as
investors’ reluctance to hold bets on falling prices into the
weekend boosted demand for the safety of  U.S. debt .  “The fear trade lingers,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
Treasury trader in  New York  at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. “If anybody’s short, they probably don’t want to go home
short for the weekend.” A short position is a bet that an asset
will decrease in value.  The 10-year  yield  rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 1.72 percent at 5 p.m. in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note due in May
2022 fell 7/32, or $2.19 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 8/32.  The yield rose as much as four basis points. It dropped as
low as 1.6937 percent, approaching the record low 1.6714 percent
set Sept. 23. It has declined 12 basis points this week.  Thirty-year bond yields climbed two basis points to 2.81
percent after rising as much as six basis points.  Gain Streak  Treasuries gained for nine weeks through the week ended
Oct. 2, 1998, as investors sought safety amid a decline in the
value of Asian currencies, a default by  Russia  on its sovereign
debt and the collapse of hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management
LP.  The 10-year note yield has fallen from 2.29 percent since
the week ended March 16, a 57 basis point decline. During that
period Treasuries have returned 3.2 percent, including
reinvested interest, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
bond indexes, compared with a 7 percent decline for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 stock index during the period.  Next week’s auctions will consist of $35 billion each of
two-year and five-year securities and $29 billion of seven-year
notes over three days starting May 22.  “Demand may be lower,” said Kevin Yang, head of bond
investment in Taipei at Hontai Life Insurance Co., which has $6
billion in assets. “They’re expensive. The economy in the U.S.
is not so weak. It’s stable.” He trimmed his Treasury holdings
yesterday, he said.  Economic Outlook  The  U.S. economy  will expand 2.3 percent this year,
compared with 1.7 percent in 2011, a Bloomberg News survey of
banks and securities companies shows. Euro-area gross domestic
product will shrink 0.3 percent, versus last year’s 1.5 percent
growth rate, according to the estimates.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said
yesterday economic reports this year have been stronger than
forecast and he expects the central bank to raise its target
interest rate by 2013. Bullard doesn’t vote on monetary policy
this year.  The Fed bought $4.9 billion of Treasuries due from August
2020 to February 2022 today, according to the Fed Bank of New
York’s  website . The purchases are part of the central bank’s
program to replace $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its
holdings with longer maturities by the end of June to help keep
down borrowing costs.  Fed policy makers may find another round of Operation Twist
is preferable to an outright asset-purchase program should the
economy show further signs of weakness or if risks increase.  Fed Policy  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on April 25 said he was prepared
to take further action to aid the economy if necessary, even as
he signaled he didn’t see an immediate need to add stimulus with
inflation near the Fed’s goal and  unemployment  falling. And the
minutes from the Fed’s April meeting showed several policy
makers said additional action could be necessary if the recovery
slips.  Economists such as Nathan Sheets,  Global Head  of
International Economics at Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse
Securities’ Dana Saporta said the Fed’s $400 billion program to
extend the maturity of bonds has been just as effective as
earlier programs to expand its balance sheet, known as
quantitative easing.  Yields have tumbled this week in the highest-rated debt
markets. German, two-, five-, 10- and 30-year  yields  all dropped
to records today as turmoil in Greece and  Spain  spurred demand
for the safest  government securities . Japanese government bond
yields declined the lowest level since July 2003.  Spain’s Debt  Moody’s cut the ratings of Spain’s biggest lenders
including  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA)  yesterday. The move followed the company’s May 14 downgrade
of 26 Italian banks and its Feb. 13 cut of Spain’s sovereign
debt. The main drivers for the bank downgrades were a surge in
soured loans, the recession, restricted funding access and the
reduced ability of the government to support lenders, Moody’s
said.  The market’s desire try to push yields to record lows on
the 10-year note will depend on events, said  Kevin Flanagan , a
Purchase, New York-based fixed-income strategist for Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney.  “Unless you see further negative headlines, perhaps we
can hold in here, but that’s a big perhaps,” Flanagan said.
“It’s a purely headline-driven market.”  Yield Forecasts  Market participants are cutting their yield forecasts. The
10-year yield will be 2.48 percent by year-end, a Bloomberg
survey of banks and securities companies shows. The projection
declined from last month’s high of 2.58 percent.  The  difference  between two- and 10-year yields shrank to
1.39 percentage points yesterday, the narrowest since December
2008. The spread widened today to 1.43 percentage points.  The  spread  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices during the life of the
debt, contracted to 2.04 percentage points yesterday from this
year’s high of 2.45 percentage points in March.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending May 15, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 163,392 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions rose by 30,664 contracts, or
23 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  