-- Treasury Yield Close to Record Low on Europe Debt Crisis
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-18T06:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/treasury-yield-is-3-basis-points-from-low-on-euro-crisis.html
Treasury 10-year yields, the
benchmark for everything from corporate bonds to mortgages, were
four basis points from their record low as  Europe ’s fiscal
crisis drove up demand for the relative safety of  U.S. debt .  “The U.S. is the favorite safe haven,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $41.4 billion in
 Tokyo  as an investor for Mizuho Asset Management Co., a unit of
 Japan ’s largest publicly traded bank. “There’s a flight to
quality. The world economy is declining. Recently the rally has
gained strength.”  Ten-year  yields  were little changed from yesterday at 1.71
percent as of 6:42 a.m. in  London , Bloomberg Bond Trader data
show. The record low was 1.6714 percent set Sept. 23. The price
of the 1.75 percent security due in May 2022 was 100 13/32.  Market participants are cutting their yield forecasts. The
10-year rate will be 2.48 percent by year-end, a Bloomberg
survey of banks and securities companies shows, with the most
recent projections given the heaviest weightings. The projection
declined from last month’s high of 2.58 percent. Nakamura, who
bet on Treasuries as they rallied over the past 12 months,
predicts the rate will fall to 1 percent this year or next. He
dropped his prior forecast for 1.5 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks declined 3.1 percent
to the lowest level in 2012, helping increase demand for debt.  Yields are tumbling in the highest-rated debt markets
around the world.  Flight to Bonds  Japan’s 10-year rate slid as low as 0.815 percent, a level
not seen since 2003. The rate on the same-maturity note in
 Australia  tumbled to 3.06 percent, the least ever.  Germany ’s 10-year  yield  dropped to a record 1.41 percent
yesterday as investors question the nation’s willingness to prop
up the euro’s most indebted members.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s biggest lenders, were cut three levels yesterday by
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a recession and mounting
loan losses as it downgraded 16 of the nation’s  banks .  Greece ’s
struggle to combat a recession is raising concern it will leave
the euro bloc.  The decline in yields may be curbed demand when the U.S.
sells $99 billion of coupon-bearing debt next week, said Kevin Yang, who is in charge of bond investment at Hontai Life
Insurance Co., which has $6 billion in assets and is in Taipei.  Auctions Loom  The auctions will consist of $35 billion of two-year and
five-year securities and $29 billion of seven-year notes over
three days starting May 22.  “Demand may be lower,” Yang said. “They’re expensive.
The economy in the U.S. is not so weak. It’s stable.” He
trimmed his Treasury holdings yesterday, he said.  U.S. gross domestic product will grow 2.3 percent in 2012,
versus 1.7 percent in 2011, a Bloomberg News survey of banks and
securities companies shows. The euro-area economy will shrink
0.3 percent, versus last year’s 1.5 percent growth rate,
according to the estimates.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said yesterday economic reports this year have been stronger
than forecast and he expects the central bank to raise its
target interest rate by 2013. Bullard doesn’t vote on monetary
policy this year.  Fed Action  Several Fed policy makers said slowing growth or higher
risks to their economic outlook may warrant additional action to
sustain the recovery, according to minutes of their April
meeting released May 16.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  on April 25 reiterated
its expectation that subdued inflation and economic slack will
be grounds for keeping its target at almost zero at least
through late 2014.  The Fed plans to buy as much as $5.25 billion of Treasuries
due from August 2020 to May 2022 today, according to the Fed
Bank of  New York ’s  website . The purchases are part of the
central bank’s program to replace $400 billion of shorter-term
debt in its holdings with longer maturities by the end of June
to help keep down borrowing costs.  Treasuries rose yesterday as reports showed an index of
leading economic indicators fell and manufacturing in the
Philadelphia area shrank.  Yields indicate investors are cutting bets on U.S.
inflation. The  difference  between two- and 10-year rates
narrowed to 1.39 percentage points yesterday, the least since
the end of 2008.  The  spread  between rates on 10-year notes and same-maturity
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
narrowed to 2.04 percentage points yesterday from this year’s
high of 2.45 percentage points in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 