-- Renren Drops Most on Record as Facebook Optimism Fades
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-21T14:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/renren-declines-most-on-record-as-facebook-ipo-optimism-fades.html
(Corrects May 18 story to say Renren had 154 million
registered users in the sixth paragraph.)  Renren Inc. (RENN)  fell the most on record
as  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering failed to boost
investors’ confidence in the Chinese social networking website
that won’t turn a profit until late 2013.  Beijing-based Renren  tumbled  21 percent, the most since its
IPO a year ago, to $4.95 at 3:48 p.m. in  New York . Before today,
the shares had gained 76 percent this year on speculation the
 Facebook IPO  may prompt investors to put a higher valuation on
social media companies.  Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking site,
was little changed from its $38 offering price, paring a gain of
as much as 18 percent. Market makers in  Germany  earlier quoted
bids for Facebook at around $70 a share. Renren, which reported
a first-quarter adjusted  loss  of 3 cents a share this week,
traded at 74 times trailing 12 months earnings, more than double
the average of its industry,  data compiled by Bloomberg show .  “Facebook was not trading as well as people expected,”
which spills over to the Chinese Internet companies, such as
Renren, said Echo He, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York,
in a phone interview. “From a fundamental perspective, Renren’s
valuation is not sustainable.”  Renren will keep losing money until the third quarter of
next year, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
company said in a statement on May 14 that it expects second-
quarter revenue of $41 million to $43 million, less than the $46
million forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Renren had 154 million registered users in  China  as of
March. Facebook has more than 900 million users and generated
$3.7 billion in revenue in 2011.  “Now that Facebook’s IPO is over, investors are refocusing
on Renren’s fundamentals and the fact that online advertising in
China has slowed down quite rapidly,” said Andy Yeung, a New
York-based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co. “Renren benefited from
the run-up to the IPO, but now there’s no more external
catalyst. Investors ‘buy on the rumor and sell on the news,’ and
today we had the news.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  