-- Romney Blames Obama for Stimulus-Funded Bridge to Nowhere
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-19T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/romney-criticizes-obama-for-stimulus-funded-bridge-to-nowhere-.html
Standing in front of an abandoned
19th century stone arch bridge restored with federal stimulus
money, Mitt Romney assailed President  Barack Obama ’s record on
spending, saying he swelled the  U.S. debt  with wasteful
expenditures.  “That’s your stimulus dollars at work: A bridge that goes
nowhere,” the presumed Republican presidential nominee said in
an appearance yesterday beside the Contoocook River in
Hillsborough, New Hampshire, where the bridge dead-ends into a
fence eight feet over the grassy riverbank.  “It is, without question, the largest one-time careless
expenditure of government money in American history,” Romney
said, referring to the $831 billion stimulus measure enacted
near the start of Obama’s term.  The bridge -- closed to car traffic for almost 30 years --
received $150,000 in stimulus money for preservation and repair.
Romney was comparing it to an Alaska road project that came to
be known as the “Bridge to Nowhere” and to symbolize the
earmarking practice in  Washington  that enables lawmakers to
steer large sums to pet programs in their home states and
districts.  Romney’s appearance capped a week spent attacking Obama on
spending and  debt , and came the same day his campaign unveiled
its first advertisement of the general-election season. The spot
describes what Romney, 65, would do on “Day One” of his
presidency and contains no direct criticism of Obama, yet
describes an agenda that defies the president’s in every way.  Keystone Pipeline  The ad asserts that Romney would immediately approve
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL oil pipeline from  Canada , which
Obama’s administration has blocked, cut taxes, and replace the
medical-insurance law the president pushed to enactment in 2010
with “common-sense health-care reform.”  “You folks are going to have a big say about who our next
president is,” Romney said in a town hall meeting conducted via
telephone with voters in Iowa,  North Carolina , Ohio and Virginia
-- the politically competitive states where the ad is making its
debut. “So it’s not at random that I have chosen these
states.”  Romney also criticized Obama anew for the health-care
measure, saying the president pursued it even though his top
economic adviser at the time, Lawrence Summers, had warned him
that doing so would slow the recovery.  ‘Make Life Harder’  “That means they went into this knowing that when they
passed Obamacare, it was going to make life harder for the
American people,” Romney said. He cited a new book, “The
Escape Artists,” by Noam Scheiber, an editor at the New
Republic magazine.  Obama’s campaign responded that the president’s policies
had “helped bring the economy back from the brink of another
Depression.”  “We’ve now seen over 4.2 million jobs created over the
last 26 months,” Obama campaign spokeswoman Lis Smith said in
an e-mailed statement. “ Mitt Romney  would bring back the failed
economic policies that created the economic crisis in the first
place -- budget-busting tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans
and letting  Wall Street  write its own rules.”  Romney, who started his week in Iowa, spent the bulk of it
raising money and campaigning in  Florida  -- where his finance
chief estimated he was on track to raise almost $10 million in
two days -- before returning to New Hampshire, where he owns a
lakeside home.  Education Message  After focusing on debt and spending this week, Romney plans
to pivot to an education-focused message next week, campaign
adviser  Eric Fehrnstrom  said.  First, Romney told reporters May 17, he planned to head to
his home in Wolfeboro,  New Hampshire , on Lake Winnipesaukee to
open the six-bedroom, 5,400-square-foot house for the summer
season, including putting his boat in the water and hauling out
picnic tables.  The former Massachusetts governor will resume his whirlwind
pace of fundraisers tomorrow, with an event in Riverside,
 Connecticut , followed by a money-raising swing through  Manhattan 
on May 21 and May 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  