-- Romney Rejects Wright-Based Attack, Decries Obama Tactics
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-18T10:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/romney-rejects-wright-based-attack-as-he-decries-obama-tactics.html
A Republican strategist’s plan to air
racially tinged ads against President  Barack Obama  drew rebukes
from Mitt Romney and other Republicans while sparking a fresh
debate over what -- if anything -- is off-limits in the
presidential race.  Both Romney and a billionaire activist who was a
prospective financier of ads trying to discredit Obama by
highlighting his ties with a former pastor, the Reverend
Jeremiah Wright Jr., denounced the idea yesterday. Racially
incendiary sermons by Wright became an issue that Obama had to
grapple with while running for president in 2008.  “I want to make it very clear I repudiate that effort,”
Romney told reporters, referring to the advertising plan. It was
said to have been drafted by Republican strategist Fred Davis
for a super-political action committee backed by billionaire Joe Ricketts, founder of what is now TD Ameritrade.  “I think it’s the wrong course for a PAC or a campaign,”
said the presumptive Republican presidential nominee. “I hope
that our campaigns can respectively be about the future and
about issues and about a vision for America.”  Romney, 65, also took the opportunity to accuse Obama, 50,
and his campaign of the type of tactics the former Massachusetts
governor is disavowing, asserting there is a negative slant to
the president’s re-election bid.  ‘Character Assassination’  “We can talk about a lot of things, but the centerpiece of
his campaign is quite clearly character assassination, and the
centerpiece of my campaign is going be my vision to get America
working again,” Romney said at a brief question-and-answer
session in Jacksonville,  Florida , in response to the Wright
story.  Still, Romney stopped short of disavowing remarks he made
earlier this year on Sean Hannity’s radio show, when he said of
Obama: “I don’t know which is worse -- him listening to
Reverend Wright, or him saying we must be a less Christian
nation.”  Asked yesterday whether he believed that Obama was trying
to make the nation “less Christian” or that Wright shaped the
president’s views and policies, Romney said, “I’m not familiar
precisely with exactly what I said, but I stand by what I said,
whatever it was.”  Bain Capital  In decrying “character assassination,” Romney said he was
referring to the Obama team’s criticism of his record as the co-
founder and one-time chief executive officer of the  Bain Capital 
LLC private equity firm. He said the attacks, which he also
faced from rivals for the Republican nomination, were designed
“not to describe success and failure, but somehow to suggest
that I’m not a good person or not a good guy.”  An Obama campaign advertisement unveiled on May 14 portrays
Romney as a cold-hearted executive whose firm cut a lucrative
deal that cost steel-industry workers their jobs.  Romney said Obama’s team was trying “to characterize me in
a way that isn’t accurate.”  He said his work at Bain “was in every case designed to
make the enterprises we invested in more successful, to grow
them. There’s this fiction that some have that somehow you can
be highly successful by stripping assets from enterprise and
walking away with lots of money and killing the enterprise.
There may be some people who know how to do that; I sure
don’t.”  New Ad  The Romney campaign released its first ad of the general
election today, a positive spot that talks about what Romney
would do on Day One of his presidency. It asserts he would
immediately approve the Keystone XL pipeline, cut taxes and
replace the health-care law with “commonsense health-care
reform.”  Obama’s campaign said that dissecting Romney’s business
record is fair, given that he has cited it as his main
qualification for the presidency.  “Despite staking his entire candidacy on his private
sector experience,  Mitt Romney  and his campaign have repeatedly
declared any balanced discussion of it as off-limits or even
‘character assassination,’” Obama campaign spokeswoman Lis
Smith said in a statement.  Sermons by Wright that became an issue before Obama
clinched the 2008 Democratic nomination included the pastor’s
praise of Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan and his claim
that the government may have helped to spread AIDS to decimate
the black population.  Potential Influence  The flap over the proposed Wright-Obama ad underscored the
potential power of one wealthy individual to alter the
presidential campaign’s narrative, along with the challenge for
Romney to keep it focused on the economy and away from divisive
topics that could alienate independent voters whose support he
needs to win.  Ricketts, 70, who finances the Ending Spending Action Fund
super-PAC and whose family owns controlling interest in the
Chicago Cubs baseball team, disavowed the ad proposal through a
spokesman.  The businessman “is neither the author nor the funder” of
the proposed ad,  Brian Baker , the super-PAC’s president, said in
a statement. He said the ad campaign was rejected because “it
reflects an approach to politics that Mr. Ricketts rejects.”  Cubs Board  Ricketts’s children serve on the Cubs’ board of directors
and one of them, Laura, has raised more than $500,000 for Obama.  The ad issue overshadowed an announcement by Romney’s
campaign that it raised $40.1 million in its first month of
joint fundraising with the  Republican National Committee . Romney
completed a two-day fundraising sweep through the politically
competitive state of Florida, where his tour of hotels, country
clubs and private homes was expected to rake in $10 million.  Obama and the  Democratic National Committee  collected $43.6
million during the same month, the president’s campaign said May
16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  West Palm Beach , Florida 
at   or 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  