-- Romney Backer Defends Bain’s Money Making Mission
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/romney-backer-defends-bain-s-money-making-mission.html
A top surrogate to Mitt Romney said
making money -- rather than creating jobs -- was the primary
goal of the presumed Republican Party presidential nominee when
he was running Bain Capital LLC, saying he “acted responsibly”
as chief executive officer of the private-equity firm.  “The role of private equity as fiduciaries is certainly to
make money,” said Tom Stemberg, the founder of  Staples Inc. (SPLS) , in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital,”
airing this weekend. Bain also helped businesses grow, so
“these things had redeeming social value, in addition to making
Mitt and his investors a lot of money.”  Stemberg appeared with a top backer of President  Barack Obama , Lawrence Fish, the former chief executive officer of
Citizens Financial Group, Inc., who questioned Romney’s record
at Bain while recognizing that the private-equity industry plays
a positive role in the economy.  “The question about private equity -- and this applies to
Mitt Romney and his partners -- specifically is,” when  jobs  are
eliminated, “whether they have behaved fairly and whether
they’ve behaved responsibly. Was fair and complete severance
provided to displaced workers? Were their pensions honored?” he
said.  Targeting Romney’s Record  This week, the Obama campaign and its allies began airing
commercials targeting Romney’s business record, portraying him
as a corporate raider eager to put profits ahead of employees.  A spot released by Priorities USA Action, a super-political
action committee backing Obama’s campaign, highlighted Bain’s
investment in GST Steel, which cut jobs and declared bankruptcy
in 2001.  Stemberg said the commercial is unfair because the GST,
like the entire  steel industry , was shrinking because of foreign
competition.  “When a company goes bankrupt, you as a company have
absolutely no say whatsoever as to what happens,” he said.
“Whatever happened there -- and I’m sure there were some
unfortunate circumstances there, cannot be laid to rest at  Mitt
Romney ’s lap.”  While objecting to that commercial, Stemberg said he
generally supports negative advertising run by super-PACs, which
can accept unlimited corporate, individual and union donations.
Those ads, he said, will be an important tool for Republicans to
criticize Obama’s record.  Demonstrating Foibles  “He doesn’t know how to run anything and his record
demonstrates that,” he said. “So if it means that my money has
to be used for negative ads to demonstrate some of the foibles
there, I can live with that.”  Stemberg has given $20,000 to Restore Our Future, a super-PAC supporting Romney’s campaign.  A Republican proposal to run ads linking Obama with his
former pastor, Reverend Jeremiah Wright Jr., whose racially
divisive sermons became an issue in 2008, reignited questions
this week about the role of super-PACs.  Fish, who’s given $25,000 to Priorities USA Action, called
on super-PACs to eschew negative campaigning, even though the
Democratic group has funded multiple attack ads including the
one this week assailing Romney’s record at Bain.  “I am not comfortable with having my support of the
president used in the form of character assassination or
negative campaigning,” Fish said. “To the extent that the PACs
support negative campaigning, I think it will reflect badly on
the candidates.”  Stemberg fired back: “Your money’s being used for that,
Larry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  