-- Rupee Tumbles to Record Low on Europe Debt Concern: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-05-18T11:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/rupee-tumbles-to-record-low-on-europe-debt-concern-mumbai-mover.html
India ’s rupee fell to a record low as
investors sought the perceived safety of the dollar over
emerging-market assets on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is
worsening.  The local currency completed a seventh weekly drop, the
longest losing streak since October 2008, after Greece’s credit
rating was cut by Fitch Ratings yesterday amid concern the
country will leave the euro. The Dollar Index, which tracks the
currency against those of six major trading partners, rose 1.4
percent this week. The rupee pared losses today after central
bank Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said policy makers are
considering measures to support the  exchange rate .  “Strong market forces in favor of the dollar have created
panic,” said J. Moses Harding, executive vice president at
 IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB)  in Mumbai. “The  Reserve Bank  of India does
not have enough ammunition to fight against the tsunami-like
ferocious headwinds the rupee is facing.”  The rupee declined 1.5 percent this week to 54.4250 per
dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched an all-time low of 54.91 today and has slumped 6.5
percent this quarter in Asia’s worst performance. The currency
advanced 0.1 percent today after falling as much as 0.8 percent
earlier.  The rupee’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, rose 65 basis
points, or 0.65 percentage point, to this year’s high of 13
percent.  RBI May Act  The Reserve Bank is closely monitoring the rupee’s movement
and will act if needed, Deputy Governor H.R. Khan told reporters
at Pokhara in Nepal on May 16, without elaborating. The monetary
authority is considering selling dollars directly to oil
importers to ease demand for the greenback, a central bank
official said, asking not to be identified, citing policy.  The RBI may offer dollars to  oil companies  at its daily
 reference rate  for the local currency, B. Mukherjee, director of
finance at Hindustan Petroleum Corp., India’s third-largest
state-run oil refiner, said yesterday.  The central bank cut last week the amount of overseas
income companies can hold in foreign currency to 50 percent from
100 percent, forcing them to convert earnings. On May 4, policy
makers raised  interest rates  on non-rupee deposits by as much as
300 basis points and freed up borrowing costs on foreign-
exchange loans to exporters.  ‘Out of Bound’  “The pace and trajectory of the depreciation has resulted
in the perception of a currency out of bound and beyond
control,” Arvind Chari, senior  fund manager  in Mumbai at
Quantum Mutual, wrote in a research report yesterday. “This we
believe is not the case and the RBI can turn around the
situation by initiating a few more policy steps.”  Six-month onshore currency forwards traded at 56.19 a
dollar, compared with 56.21 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were unchanged 56.43. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  