-- Russia Stocks Head for Biggest Weekly Drop in 5 Months on Greece
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-18T11:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/russia-stocks-head-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-5-months-on-greece.html
Russia’s  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index headed for the
biggest weekly drop this year as Europe’s debt crisis deepened
and crude oil, the country’s main export earner, retreated on
worse-than-expected U.S. economic data.  The 30-stock Micex was little changed at 1,288.02 by 3:06
p.m. in Moscow, poised for a 6.9 percent loss in the week, the
most since December. The gauge’s 3.5 percent drop yesterday took
its decline from a March 14 high to more than 20 percent,
breaching the threshold analysts say marks a so-called bear
market. OAO Transneft fell 5.1 percent. OAO Raspadskaya, a coal
producer, lost 17 percent this week. Preferred shares of OAO
Surgutneftegas, the country’s fourth-largest oil producer,
retreated 20 percent in the week.  Oil was little changed in New York, headed for its third
weekly decline. Moody’s Investors Service lowered debt ratings
at 16 Spanish banks, while  Fitch Ratings  cut Greece’s credit
rating on concern the country may not be able to sustain euro
membership. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general
economic index slid to minus 5.8 in May, data showed yesterday.
 China ’s home prices fell in a record number of cities in April.  “The most complicated factor that continues to weigh down
the Russian market is the threat of Greece exiting the European
Union,” Victor Bark, who oversees $1 billion in assets as the
head of asset management at Alfa Capital Partners Ltd., said by
phone from Moscow. “Moody’s rating is adequately reflecting the
situation in Spain. The market is oversold, the panic should
stop, but there is still more room for a decline.”  Oil, Outflows  Russia  received almost 50 percent of budget revenue from
oil and gas sales last year, according to government estimates.
Brent traded down 0.5 percent at $106.93 a barrel.  The  MSCI Russia Energy Index (MXRU0EN)  lost 12 percent this week.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  held a budget meeting today
and is preparing for the Group of Eight summit in Camp David,
where he’ll be replacing President  Vladimir Putin .  Russia-focused equity funds posted redemptions of $53
million in the week ended May 16 compared with $188 million the
week before, according to Troika Dialog, which cited EPFR data.  “The news flow from the European debt front remains
unsupportive,” Peter Szopo, the head of research at Alfa Bank,
wrote in an e-mailed note. “Yesterday’s U.S. data were poor.
Chinese data also came in weak this morning.”  Russia was the first of the so-called BRIC countries to
enter a  bear market  in 2012. The BSE India Sensitive Index is
down 12 percent from its peak and Brazil’s Bovespa Index is down
21 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has been in a bear
market for more than a year.  ‘Key’ Company  OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, traded little
changed at 80.73 rubles. The bank’s shares have dropped 11
percent this week and trade at 5.2 times estimated earnings. The
 MSCI Russia Finance Index (MXRU0FN)  slid 15 percent this week.  “Whoever was selling Russia this week, was selling
Sberbank as a key Russian company,” Bark said.  The dollar-denominated RTS fell 2.9 percent to 1,275.73,
the lowest intraday level since Oct. 7. The index’s 3.6 percent
slide on May 14 saw it breach the bear-market threshold.  The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  for shares in Brazil, Russia, India and
China slid into a bear market yesterday. The MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index headed for its biggest weekly retreat in eight
months.  Cabinet Moves  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  turned down the post of
deputy prime minister for industry as Medvedev tries to form a
new government, Vedomosti reported today, citing unidentified
Kremlin officials.  Sergei Kiriyenko , chief executive officer of Rosatom Corp.,
declined to become deputy prime minister for energy, while
Economy Minister Elvira Nabiullina won’t continue in her post in
the new government and also turned down an offer to become a
deputy prime minister for social issues, Vedomosti said.  A Kremlin official, who declined to be identified because
of state policy, said Prokhorov hadn’t been offered a post and
declined to comment on Kiriyenko, when contacted by Bloomberg.
Yuliana Slaschova, Prokhorov’s spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Anton Siluanov is likely to keep his position as Finance
Minister, Interfax reported, citing Deputy Finance Minister
Sergei Storchak.  Medvedev will not announce the members of the new cabinet
today, the Prime Minister said during the budget meeting in
Moscow today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  