-- Russia Wants U.S. Missile Shield Accord Backed by Lawmakers
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-05-18T15:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/russia-wants-u-s-missile-pact-guarantees-approved-by-lawmakers.html
Russia , which wants guarantees it
isn’t targeted by a U.S.-led missile shield, is demanding an
accord ratified by lawmakers of the world’s two biggest nuclear
powers, Deputy Defense Minister Anatoly Antonov said.  An agreement providing the guarantees must be drafted by
military experts, he said in a May 16 interview at his office in
central Moscow. A new U.S. leader won’t easily reject the pact
when faced with an accord backed by lawmakers, said Antonov, who
oversees missile-defense issues.  “We don’t want to be dependent on one man in the White
House,” Antonov said. “What if a new leader comes in November
and dismisses all that the previous one has done?”  President  Vladimir Putin , who returned to the Kremlin for a
third term this month, objects to U.S. plans to house parts of a
missile shield in eastern  Europe , saying it would undermine his
country’s nuclear deterrent. Pre-emptive strikes against the
system are possible as a last resort,  Nikolai Makarov , chief of
Russia’s General Staff, said May 3.  After President  Barack Obama  told then-President  Dmitry Medvedev  in March that he will have greater flexibility “after
my election” to work out differences over the planned program,
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  described Russia
as “without question, our number-one geopolitical foe.”
Microphones on March 26 also recorded Obama asking Medvedev to
let Putin know that he needed to “give me space” to deal with
objections to the U.S.’s missile-defense plan.  NATO Summit  Obama is hosting a North Atlantic Treaty Organization
meeting on May 20-21 in  Chicago , his hometown, where the
alliance may declare an “interim capability” of its defense
shield. Putin is skipping a summit of the Group of Eight nations
at Camp David, the presidential retreat in  Maryland , which
precedes NATO talks.  “We are urging our colleagues to think about the
consequences before making any decisions on the missile shield
at the Chicago summit,” Antonov said.  The Obama administration has said it will proceed with the
project, which was embraced by NATO in 2010, to protect Europe
against potential attacks from Iran. Russia has said the U.S.-
led plan may provoke a new arms race and upset the strategic
balance in the region.  Medvedev’s Orders  Medvedev ordered the military last November to prepare to
“destroy” the system’s command capability and threatened to
station strike missiles on Russia’s southern and western flanks
to counter the shield.  Earlier this month, Russia held a conference on missile
defense in Moscow, attended by representatives from about 50
countries, including top U.S. and NATO officials. The defense
system will be reassessed if the danger of attacks from  Iran 
ebbs, NATO Deputy Secretary General Alexander Vershbow, who led
the alliance’s delegation, said in a May 3 interview.  Russian officials have demanded the U.S. provide legal
assurances, while the U.S. has said it wouldn’t agree to any
limits on its planned system and could provide only “political
statements” that the plans aren’t intended to weaken Russia’s
strategic deterrence.  “Any agreement requiring U.S. Senate ratification is a
dead end,” defense analysts including Ivanka Barzashka, Timur
Kadyshev an Ivan Oelrich wrote in an opinion piece published in
the  New York  Times yesterday. “Instead, the State Department
has offered political assurances, which Moscow claims are
worthless because policies can change.”  Obama’s Lobbying  Obama and members of his administration lobbied senators in
2010 to ratify a nuclear arms accord with Russia, helping defeat
two Republican-sponsored amendments that would have scuttled the
Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as New Start. The Senate
approved the agreement 71-26 on Dec. 22, 2010, during a post-
election lame-duck session before a reduced Democratic majority
in the chamber would have made the vote more difficult.  Medvedev, who helped forge the agreement that took effect
in 2011, has since renewed a threat to quit the accord if the
two sides can’t reach an agreement on missile defense.  “One of the measures could be Russia stopping nuclear
disarmament and terminating our participation in the New Start
treaty,” Antonov said. “If you develop a missile shield, you
create a problem for further nuclear disarmament. We are being
pushed to disarm while the missile shield is being developed.”  While Russia’s position has evolved over recent years, the
Americans have refused to budge, according to Antonov.  “We said ‘no’ to the shield several years ago, but then we
made a great step forward by agreeing that the U.S. has a right
to protect itself,” he said. “All we want is for them not to
strengthen their defense by making us weaker.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  