-- S&P 500 Falls at 3 Times 2011 Rate as May Losses Deepen
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-05-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/s-p-500-falls-at-3-times-2011-rate-as-may-losses-deepen.html
Investors who warned stock losses in
May would mimic last year’s decline in the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  from the highest level since 2008 were wrong. The losses
are three times worse.  About  $1 trillion  has been erased from American equity
values this month after speculation  Greece  will leave the euro
region reversed the biggest first-quarter rally since 1998,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with $345
billion in the 13 days after April 29, 2011, when the  S&P 500 
reached its highest level in three years.  Faltering stocks, reports showing  weaker economic growth 
and concern about the economic health of countries from  Spain  to
 Italy  is reminding investors of 2011, one of the most volatile
years on record as the S&P 500 dropped as much as 19 percent.
Investors bracing for a retreat pulled $18 billion from U.S.
equity mutual funds in April, the most since at least 1984,
according to the  Investment Company Institute .  “We are looking at bigger risks,”  Peter Sorrentino , a
 fund manager  who helps oversee $14.7 billion at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“Unlike last year, where we had some time to kick the can down
the road and there was room for hope, this year is worse because
it looks like Europe is hitting the wall and the can’s not gonna
go any further.”  The S&P 500 fell for the fifth time in a row yesterday,
sending the benchmark gauge for U.S. shares to the lowest
closing level since January, amid disappointing economic data
and concern about Europe’s debt crisis. After the market closed,
Moody’s Investors Service confirmed investor speculation as it
cut credit ratings for 16 Spanish banks, citing economic
weakness and the government’s budget strain.  Eight Days  Nine out of  10 groups  in the S&P 500 declined yesterday as
an index of leading indicators slid and manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region unexpectedly shrank.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  dropped at least 4.3 percent. The
 Nasdaq-100 Index (NDX)  fell for an eighth day, the longest slump since
2010, as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sank 2.9 percent.  The S&P 500 has plunged 6.7 percent since the end of April,
compared with its 2.5 percent decrease between last year’s April
29 high and May 17. This year’s decline followed a 12 percent
rally in the first quarter. Mining and chemical companies have
led the tumble, dropping 10 percent, followed by banks and
brokerage firms with a 9.9 percent decline and energy producers,
down 9.3 percent.  Industry Rotation  Last year’s selloff was led by commodities companies and
marked the beginning of a rotation into companies less dependent
on economic growth that lasted the rest of the year. Over the
same period in May 2011, utilities climbed 2.8 percent, health-
care companies added 2.4 percent and makers of household goods
increased 2.1 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Confidence in stocks has waned since French Socialist
Francois Hollande was elected president and Greek voters picked
anti-bailout parties on May 6, according to  Philip Orlando ,
chief equity strategist at Federated Investors Inc., which
oversees about $370 billion.  The investor response is “exclusively a function” of
these elections, which are a “worst case scenario,” Orlando
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Those who understand
finance and the markets recognize that the Greeks are signing
their death certificate.”  Investors are locking in profits after the stock market’s
rally earlier this year and are putting their money into
Treasury inflation-protected securities, precious metals and
defensive consumer names as they anticipate a third round of
quantitative easing by the  Federal Reserve , according to
Sorrentino.  Pay a Premium  The U.S. sold $13 billion of 10-year inflation-indexed
notes yesterday at a record negative yield with investors
willing to pay a premium to guard against the threats of rising
consumer prices and Europe’s worsening debt crisis. Gold jumped
the most since October after tumbling 3.7 percent in the past
four sessions, while silver futures for July delivery posted
their biggest advance since April 12.  The Fed signaled May 16 that further monetary easing
remains an option to protect the  U.S. economy  from the danger
that lawmakers will fail to reach agreement on the budget or
Europe’s debt woes worsen. Several members of the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said new actions could be necessary if the
economy loses momentum or “downside risks to the forecast
became great enough,” according to minutes of the Federal Open
Market Committee’s April meeting.  Operation Twist  Investors are speculating the central bank may provide
additional stimulus after a $400 billion program called
Operation Twist, in which the Federal Reserve is replacing
short-term debt in its holdings with longer-term securities,
ends, Sorrentino said. Pimco’s Co-Chief Investment Officer  Bill Gross  and Jan Hatzius, the chief economist at Goldman Sachs,
said this month that investors should prepare for more bond
purchases by the Fed to combat a slowing economy.  “If you thought that was coming, why not get out now, wait
for it to bottom,” Sorrentino said, referring to QE3. “It’s
not so much that the U.S. needs it but it’s to keep what’s going
on in  Europe  from cascading here. It’s like putting up a
firewall.”  Economic data is trailing estimates by the most in seven
months. The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the U.S.,
which measures how much data is missing or beating the median
estimates in Bloomberg surveys, slipped to minus 25.1 yesterday
and was minus 25.6 on May 10, the lowest since Sept. 30.  “It’s tough to have confidence in the equity markets with
all that’s going on around the world,” Thomas Garcia, head of
equity trading at  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg
Investment Management Inc., said in an e-mail. His firm oversees
about $80 billion. “I don’t see us going back to the lows of
last year, but it’s going to be a struggle to move higher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  