-- Sainsbury in Talks to License Brand Match Technology Overseas
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-05-18T11:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/sainsbury-in-talks-to-license-brand-match-technology-overseas.html
J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-
largest grocer, said it’s in talks with U.S. and South American
retailers about licensing the technology behind Brand Match, a
price promise that has fueled sales outperformance.  The supermarket chain is in contact “with several
international retailers” located in the regions, group
development director Luke Jensen told Bloomberg News by e-mail.  Sainsbury Chief Executive Officer Justin King has hailed
October’s introduction of Brand Match as changing customer
perceptions about the supermarket chain’s prices. The program
ensures shoppers don’t pay more for branded goods such as Coca-
Cola and Persil detergent than at competitors by checking more
than 14,000 goods including offers and promotions at the point
of sale. Customers get a coupon if rivals are cheaper.  “It’s really helping us convince our customers as to the
reality of our price position,” King said on May 9.  Sainsbury’s sales rose 5.4 percent in the 12 weeks ended
April 15, exceeding market growth of 5 percent, according to
Kantar Worldpanel. Its share of the grocery market was steady at
16.6 percent, which King said was the highest for a decade.  According to Sainsbury, the proportion of customers who
think it sells brands at the same price as other supermarkets
has risen to 80 percent from 68 percent since the initial trial
of Brand Match in August 2011. The grocer issues millions of
coupons a week to customers under the program, with more than
half showing customers that their shopping basket was cheaper
than it would have been at larger competitors  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda, the retailer said.  Tesco  has been cutting prices through its Big Price Drop
campaign on essential items, while Asda has a similar offer to
Sainsbury though customers must check their own receipts online
and are then issued with a voucher to redeem in stores.  Sainsbury declined to identify the retailers it is in talks
with over licensing the technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  