-- Will Arnett on Facebook, Dottie Mattison, Kate White
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-05-18T21:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/scene-last-night-will-arnett-comments-on-facebook-zuckerberg.html
On the red carpet last night for the
closing party of Internet Week, Facebook’s IPO today was the hot
topic.  “I’d love to get a time machine and go back to 2004 and
invest in Facebook,” actor and comedian Will Arnett told
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop with Betty Liu.”  As for  Mark Zuckerberg ? “I’d love to collaborate with him
on my bank account,” Arnett added.  IAC (IACI)  held the party at its building on  Manhattan ’s West
Side, with streaming-television startup  Aereo  as co-host. Guests
included actor Wilmer Valderrama and Mandy Ginsberg,  Match.com 
president.  Mattison Mulls Alaia  Meanwhile, Dottie Mattison, senior managing director at
Guggenheim Partners LLC, was at a Tribeca loft for an intimate
dinner hosted by producer Kim Moses.  Mattison said she plans to wear an Alaia dress to the
Billboard Music Awards, Sunday at the MGM Grand in  Las Vegas .  Kate White commented on her own blouse: “Every editor of
Cosmo has to have a little leopard,” White said.  The executives, both the primary bread winners in their
families, were getting acquainted at Moses’s first  New York 
Women of Influence Dinner, like the ones she hosts in  Los
Angeles .  ‘Toy Story’ Producer  On the West Coast the guest list includes Darla Anderson,
who produced the “Toy Story” trilogy for Pixar, and Dana Settle, a partner at Greycroft Partners LLC.  The purpose of the gatherings is to create opportunities
and connections, said Moses, in town for the television network
upfront presentations with advertisers to book advance
commitments for the season.  Mattison, who ran the apparel business at  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , manages  Prometheus Global Media , which owns the magazines
Billboard, the  Hollywood Reporter , Back Stage and Ad Week. White
has led Cosmopolitan since 1998.  “Cosmopolitan has enough content to be a four-year
college,” Mattison told White, citing the legacy of the
magazine that under Helen Gurley Brown advocated for sexual and
career freedom.  Career Book  White has a career book coming out in the fall, “Sweet
Success: How to Get It, Run With It, Savor It,” which follows
her now-classic tome “Why Good Girls Don’t Get Ahead...But
Gutsy Girls Do.”  Also at the dinner last night, at a round table decorated
with pink peonies cut short so everyone could see each other:
Deborah C. Wright, chairman, chief executive and president of
 Carver BanCorp Inc. (CAVR) ; Susan Gilbertson, managing director at
 Jefferies Group (JEF) ; Judith Rodin, president of the Rockefeller
Foundation; Yvette J. Alberdingk Thimj, executive director of
Witness, the nonprofit founded by musician Peter Gabriel which
uses video to shed light on human rights abuses; and Fern
Mallis, the fashion industry insider who will be interviewing
 Michael Kors  at the 92nd Street Y on June 6.  Save the date: The Veuve Cliquot Polo Classic will be held
at Liberty State Park on Saturday, June 2. The move from
 Governors Island  will make the event smaller, so tickets are
being sold for $25, with proceeds to benefit the Philadelphia-
based nonprofit Work to Ride.  “What we do is capture children at a very young age, 7 or 8
years old, when they are curious about animals,” said the
founder of Work to Ride, Lezlie Hiner.  The program pairs the children with horses through high
school, teaching them how to ride and how to play competitive
polo. It also provides academic support.  With a budget of $350,000 annually, the program works with
20 children at a time.  “It’s exhilarating, it’s fast, it’s competitive,” said
Hiner. “I think that’s what the kids love about it most.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 