-- LSE Profit Jumps on Earnings From Italian Counterparty
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-05-18T09:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/lse-profit-jumps-on-earnings-from-italian-counterparty.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ,
 Europe ’s oldest independent bourse, said fiscal second-half
profit quadrupled, boosted by money earned from deposits at its
Italian central counterparty. The shares jumped 6.4 percent.  Net income for the six months ended March 31 climbed to
405.9 million pounds ($641 million) from 89.4 million pounds a
year earlier, according to Bloomberg calculations based on full-
year results in a Regulatory News Service statement today. Net
treasury income, LSE’s earnings from deposits at its Italian
central counterparty, more than doubled to 126.9 million pounds.  Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  is trying to diversify
LSE’s business away from traditional equities after losing
market share to alternative trading systems. In December, LSE
agreed to buy the 50 percent of FTSE International Ltd. it
didn’t already own from  Pearson Plc (PSON)  for 450 million pounds in
cash. In March, LSE announced it would purchase a majority stake
in LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.  “While the current run rate of treasury income is not
sustainable, the benefits of the recent deals are still to flow
through the profit and loss account and we expect to upgrade our
forecasts quite significantly,”  James Hamilton , an analyst at
Numis Securities, wrote in a note today. “The LSE has largely
rebalanced and repositioned itself in the recent past.” He
raised  his recommendation  to buy from add.  LSE shares jumped 61.5 pence, or 6.4 percent, to 1,026
pence at 10:40 a.m. in London trading.  Capital Markets  Sales from  capital markets , where LSE makes money from
company listings and trading, climbed 3.6 percent to 301.9
million pounds. Revenue from post-trade services increased 2.3
percent to 101.6 million pounds.  Information-services revenue rose 27 percent to 218.9
million pounds and sales from technology services gained 8.2
percent to 52.6 million pounds.  The exchange is conducting a study on how it distributes
company statements, fueling speculation that banks and brokers
will have to pay to receive the information.  The exchange plans to expand its FTSE index business into
the U.S. and  emerging markets , Rolet told reporters on a
conference call today.  “Cost is not just a discipline, it’s becoming part of our
DNA,” Rolet said today.  LSE scrapped its bid for TMX Group Inc. last year after
failing to win support from the Canadian company’s shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  