-- Sex-Harassment Lawsuit Abuses Process, Slipper Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-18T03:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/sex-harassment-lawsuit-abuses-process-slipper-says.html
Peter Slipper , who stepped aside as
speaker of Australia’s parliament amid claims he sexually
harassed a male staff member, said today the lawsuit was an
abuse of court processes that had damaged his reputation.  The filing was “accompanied by a publicity blitz” with
the complainant making no attempt to communicate with the
speaker or the government, Slipper’s lawyer Josh Bornstein told
a judge in Sydney. “The publicity has been extremely damaging
to Mr. Slipper.”  James Ashby claims he was the victim of unwelcome sexual
advances while he worked as an adviser to Slipper and is seeking
unspecified damages. The civil case, and a police investigation
into whether Slipper misused taxpayer-funded travel vouchers,
has weakened Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s minority government.  Slipper, who stepped aside as speaker of the  House of
Representatives  on May 8, has denied wrongdoing. He is “deeply
disturbed and distressed” by the allegations, Bornstein said by
video link from  Melbourne  and called the tactics used by Ashby
“an ambush” and “character assassination.”  Ashby is pressing for a speedy trial before a jury, his
lawyer  Mark Lee  told the court -- a move opposed by the
government, which is also named in the lawsuit.  Federal Court Justice Steven Rares ordered the parties to
exchange information and set the next hearing, which may
determine how the case will proceed, for June 15.  ‘Dark Cloud’  Gillard’s government had been relying on Slipper to boost
its numbers in the lower house since he defected from the
opposition coalition to become speaker in November. The prime
minister said last month that a “dark cloud” was hanging over
the Australian parliament amid the allegations against Slipper
and claims Craig Thomson, a former member of her  Labor party ,
misused a union credit card to pay for prostitutes.  Ashby said in his original application that in his first
week working for the speaker in the nation’s capital, Canberra,
Slipper insisted he stay at his apartment.  Slipper asked Ashby to massage his neck and after a minute
began to moan in a way that “indicated intense sexual
pleasure,” according to the complaint. The next day Slipper
allegedly called Ashby “a strange one” for showering with the
door shut.  ‘Sexual Relationship’  Following other incidents and mobile phone text messages,
Ashby concluded that Slipper hired him in order to pursue a
sexual relationship with him, according to the complaint.  The conduct consisted of sexual harassment, which is
illegal under  Australia ’s Sex Discrimination Act of 1984 and
Queensland’s Anti-Discrimination Act of 1991, according to the
court document.  Ashby has named the government in the lawsuit, claiming it
was aware that Slipper had formed a sexual relationship with a
male member of his staff in mid-2003. The government failed to
take reasonable steps to prevent Slipper from using his office
to foster sexual relationships with young male staff members,
according to the filing.  Ashby has filed a separate complaint with the Australian
Human Rights Commission, saying he has been victimized by senior
politicians, including Foreign Minister Bob Carr, for lodging
the lawsuit against Slipper and the government.  Slipper said in a statement to parliament earlier this
month that he was being tried by the media. “I believe I am
entitled, like any other person, to have the presumption of
innocence,” he said.  The case is: James Hunter Ashby v. The Commonwealth of
Australia. NSD580/2012. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  