-- Shoppers Skipping Pomegranates Show India Rate Dilemma: Economy
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-05-18T06:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/shoppers-skipping-pomegranates-show-india-rate-dilemma-economy.html
Chetna Desai eyes mangoes and
pomegranates at a stall in South Delhi after buying the
essentials of onions and potatoes. She decides against the
fruits after the vendor tells her the price.  “Everything from milk to vegetables and fruits is so
expensive these days,” said the 33-year-old, who earns 60,000
rupees ($1,100) a month as a consultant on children’s rights
with the government. “Although I can afford it, every trip to
the market to buy groceries has me gasping about the prices.”  Surging food costs offer the most visible sign of  India ’s
inability to contain price pressures, threatening spending in
the world’s second-most populous nation. Even as the nation’s
benchmark  wholesale-price inflation  has eased to below 9 percent
after breaching that level most of last year, a recently
introduced consumer-price gauge shows how little room the
central bank has cut to cut interest rates and spur growth.  India’s consumer-price index climbed 10.36 percent from a
year earlier in April as prices of cereal, pulses, milk and meat
products rose, compared with a revised 9.38 percent advance in
March, a report showed today. The gauge was created in January
2011 and today’s release gives the year-on-year data for the
fourth time. Wholesale-price inflation in April was 7.23 percent,
with food prices jumping 10.5 percent.  “Consumers are facing high inflation driven by food
prices,” said  Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. who was rated the top Indian forecaster by
Bloomberg for the two years ending August 2011. “Due to the
divergence between the consumer-price index and wholesale-price
index, the  Reserve Bank of India  cannot cut rates too
aggressively when inflation expectations are so high.”  Swaps Climb  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, have climbed 14
basis points to 7.995 percent since the central bank’s last
policy review on April 17, signaling investors pared bets for
further reductions in borrowing costs.  Reserve Bank of India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao signaled
last month that inflation might limit the room for further cuts
after he slashed the benchmark rate by half a percentage point,
flagging price risks from the fiscal deficit, energy costs and a
weaker rupee.  The central bank estimates that wholesale-price inflation
will probably be at 6.5 percent by the end of the current
financial year, it said last month. Deutsche Bank AG estimates
an average rate of 7 percent in the year through March 2013 from
9.5 percent the previous year.  Exceeding Projection  Wholesale-price inflation unexpectedly accelerated to more
than 7 percent in April from a 6.89 percent pace in March. The
 median  of 32 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 6.67
percent gain.  The April gain in the wholesale index exceeded the central
bank’s projection for the year, and a revision in the February
data suggests that inflation last month was probably running
closer to 7.6 percent, according to Jahangir Aziz, an economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Washington  who used to work at the
 International Monetary Fund .  “In projecting headline inflation to remain within the 6
percent to 7 percent range, the RBI appears to have placed its
faith that  core inflation  will not respond aggressively to
rising food and other input prices,” as slowing growth deters
manufacturers from passing on rising costs to customers, Aziz
said in a note this week. The economist predicts core inflation
will “rise sharply” in the coming months and further rate cuts
are “unlikely given the nasty inflation dynamics.”  Done With Cuts?  India’s consumer price gains will probably average 10
percent in the year through March 2013, according to Sujan Hajra,
chief economist at Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai.
Wholesale inflation may average 8 percent and reach 10 percent
by the end of March, he said.  “There is very little likelihood of the  consumer price
index  falling below 10 percent this fiscal year because of
galloping food prices,” he said. “Whatever the RBI had to do it
has done and we see no more rate cuts this year.”  In  Europe ,  Germany ’s producer price data showed gains
slowed last month. Italy’s industrial orders probably improved
in March from a 2.5 percent contraction the previous month, a
separate survey showed. The U.S. will release revised figures
for factory orders today.  By both consumer and wholesale measures, India’s inflation
is the highest in the so-called BRIC group of biggest  emerging
markets  that also includes Brazil, Russia and  China . Varma
expects the central bank to gradually rely more on the consumer
price gauge in deciding policy as the wholesale measure excludes
services and mostly reflects manufacturing.  ‘Wrong Time’  The  Reserve Bank  lowered the  repurchase rate  on April 17
for the first time since 2009, to 8 percent, to support an
economy that probably expanded the least in three years in the
12 months through March 2012 according to government estimates.
The move followed 13 interest-rate increases from March 2010 to
October 2011 that sought to tame price pressures in a nation
where 75 percent of the people live on less than $2 a day.  “Policy rates are being cut at the wrong time,” said Jay Shankar, an independent economist and political analyst who
previously worked for Religare Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai.
“The RBI’s focus now should be on taming inflation rather than
supporting growth.”  Against Advice  Subbarao went against the recommendations of an advisory
panel when he cut  interest rates  by a greater-than-forecast half
a percentage point last month, minutes of the committee released
this week showed. Four of the six non-central bank members
present said the central bank should hold rates, according to
 minutes  of the Technical Advisory Committee on Monetary Policy
meeting on April 11. Two members recommended a 0.25 percentage-
point cut.  Indian companies’ dollar borrowing costs have surged as
policy makers’ inability to cool inflation erodes investor
confidence. The rupee fell to a record low this week and global
funds have cut holdings of local-currency notes by more than
$400 million this quarter after the central bank said Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s fiscal deficit may stoke price
pressures in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy.  Vegetable and fruit prices are higher at the retail level
than at the farm gate because they are distributed through many
stages in between, Shankar said. Prices are buoyant because
supplies haven’t increased, he added.  Retail Pulse  That’s undermining  consumer spending , said Paras Bothra,
head of research at Ashika Stock Broking Ltd. in Kolkata.  Sales growth for  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) , the country’s
largest retailer, is expected to slow to less than 3 percent in
the year ending June 30, compared with a 35 percent increase the
previous year, according to a Bloomberg compilation of analyst
estimates. The company’s shares have fallen 43 percent in the
past year, compared with a drop of 12 percent in the benchmark
BSE India Sensitive Index.  “If you look at the retail pulse for this quarter, it has
been very sluggish all across,’ Bothra said. “Purchasing power
has gone down quite substantially because of the fact that
inflation remains very high, and earnings growth doesn’t remain
that great.”  For Desai, that means forsaking mangoes, priced at 60
rupees a kilogram at the stall she was visiting, and
pomegranates costing 150 rupees a kilogram, about double the
price at a wholesale market in  New Delhi . Green mangoes are used
for making pickles and condiments, in cooking with lentils and
to make juices.  “Prices of fruits and vegetables have increased so much in
the last four to five years, even milk prices are increasing,”
she said. “The government keeps saying that inflation will be
brought down, but I see no sign of that happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  