-- Slovenian Police Union Seeks Referendum on Austerity Move
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-05-18T12:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/slovenian-police-union-seeks-referendum-on-austerity-move.html
Slovenia’s police union is demanding
a referendum on the government’s austerity program, a move that
would risk delaying the implementation of about 800 million
euros ($1.02 billion) of savings.  Lawmakers on May 11 approved budget measures and other
legislation to cut this year’s shortfall to about 3 percent of
gross domestic product. Slovenia is seeking to allay investor
concern over the sustainability of its debt load, which more
than doubled since 2007, when the country adopted the euro.  “The legislation to balance public finances is intruding
in the lives of all inhabitants of Slovenia, not only workers in
the public sector,” the Ljubljana-based union said in an e-mail
today after submitting more than 4,700 signatures. The
parliamentary speaker must set a deadline to collect more than
40,000 signatures before approving a referendum.  A popular vote may derail the government’s efforts to trim
public spending and enact a so-called fiscal compact inspired by
 Germany  as concern mounts the 17-member euro region may splinter
following the inconclusive vote in  Greece .  The majority of public-sector unions gave their support to
the measures in talks with the government last week.  “The situation is very serious,” Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  said, according to Delo newspaper. “Self-willed trade
unions could give a fatal blow to Slovenia.”  Voters in Slovenia rejected pension changes in a referendum
last year that would have extended the  retirement age  to 65.
That decision and the intensifying debt crisis in  Europe  caused
a collapse of the government of then-Prime Minister  Borut Pahor 
in September. After that, Slovenia had its credit ratings cut
and saw its borrowing costs on the benchmark bond surge to over
7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  