-- T-Rex Asian Cousin Beats Facebook IPO for Some at Auction
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-05-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/smaller-t-rex-dodo-cast-mars-meteorite-in-n-y-auction.html
Never mind the  Facebook IPO . Some
people believe that a dinosaur makes a good investment. Next
week you can get in on the ground floor for maybe $1 million.  The beast in question is a Tyrannosaurus bataar, an Asian
cousin of the North American T-rex. It measures 24 feet long and
just 8 feet high -- suitable for the typical Greenwich,
 Connecticut , entrance hall.  Excavated in the Gobi Desert within the past decade, the
dino’s body is 75 percent complete, the skull 80 percent,
according to the auction house.  No assembly required: T-bataar is already mounted. It will
be on the block at Heritage Auctions’ Natural History & Fine
Minerals Signature sale in New York tomorrow, May 20, with a
presale estimate between $950,000 and $1.5 million. There are
many reasons that’s good value.  “This is the first time a Tyrannosaurus that is fully
prepared and mounted is being sold at auction,” said David
Herskowitz, director of natural history at  Heritage Auctions .
“It takes about two years and costs a couple hundred thousand
dollars to prepare and mount it.”  The rarity of the material also makes it desirable to
several natural-history museums opening in  Asia ,  Europe  and the
 Middle East , Herskowitz said.  “Five years from now, the demand for dinosaurs is going to
be huge,” he said. “They aren’t making them anymore.”  Sotheby’s Sells ‘Sue’  A T-rex known as “Sue” sold for $8.4 million at  Sotheby’s (BID) 
in 1997, a record price for a dinosaur fossil at auction. Named
after its discoverer, Susan Hendrickson, “Sue” was purchased
by Chicago’s Field Museum, which mounted the 42-foot-long
carnivore’s bones.  A shadow may hang over T-bataar, however. The Mongolian
government has ordered an investigation into the origin of the
fossil, according to  China ’s Xinhua news agency, which also said
the auction may be illegal if the fossil originated in  Mongolia .  Herskowitz said the T-bataar entered the U.S. legally,
adding that “no one knows where exactly it was dug up. They’d
have to find the hole and match up the matrix.”  The fossil was initially exported to  Japan , then to
England, Herskowitz said. It entered the U.S. legally and was
prepared and mounted in the country.  Tooth and Skull  The auction also includes a 10-inch T-bataar tooth
estimated at $18,000 to $24,000, and an ankylosaurid skull with
protruding knobs that suggest a dragon, estimated at $60,000 to
$80,000. The huge reconstructed jaw of a mega-shark, measuring
about 5 feet by 6 and bristling with 138 teeth could bring as
much as $80,000.  And who can resist a Dodo, extinct yet ever-present in its
many human counterparts? A skeleton cast from a specimen in the
 Royal Ontario Museum  seems like a bargain at $3,500 to $4,500.  The sale also features stuff from a place far away rather
than a time long ago. A glossy, black rock from Mars that landed
during a meteorite shower last July is expected to bring $32,500
to $40,000. A dazzling pallasite meteorite is estimated to sell
for $8,000 to $10,000.  “Meteorites are the most collectible items,” Herskowitz
said. “They are rarer than gold: Each is unique and comes from
outer space.”  Bids can be placed on www.ha.com where the auction will
also be broadcast live on Sunday.  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history and Zinta Lundborg on weekend entertainment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 