-- SMU Fires Athletic Director Steve Orsini Ahead of Big East Move
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-05-18T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/smu-fires-athletic-director-steve-orsini-ahead-of-big-east-move.html
Southern Methodist University  fired
Athletic Director Steve Orsini as the Dallas-based school
prepares to switch to the  Big East  conference.  Tim Leonard, the senior associate director of athletics,
was named interim director of athletics while a national search
is undertaken for a permanent replacement to Orsini.  “After several discussions over the last few weeks, it
became apparent to me that it was necessary to make this
change,” SMU President R. Gerald Turner said in an e-mailed
statement last night. “A unified effort is required for future
progress in our athletics programs.”  SMU announced in December that it will leave Conference USA
to begin play in the  Big East  in all sports from the 2013-14
academic year.  SMU’s football team finished third in the West division
last season with an 8-5 record and 5-3 mark in conference play.
The Mustangs ended the campaign with a 28-6 victory over the
 University of Pittsburgh  in the Compass Bowl.  In men’s basketball, SMU was 11th of 12 teams in Conference
USA with a 13-19 record.  Orsini’s departure comes a month after Larry Brown, the
only coach to win college and National Basketball Association
championships, took over the basketball program.  NBA Top Coach  SMU is the 14th head coaching job for the 71-year-old
Brown, who most recently led the NBA’s  Charlotte  Bobcats before
resigning 28 games into the 2010-11 season.  Brown was the league’s Coach of the Year in 2001 when he
directed the Philadelphia 76ers and led the  Detroit Pistons  to
the NBA championship in 2004, 16 years after guiding the
University of  Kansas  to the National Collegiate Athletic
Association title.  The Big East sent nine schools to the NCAA tournament this
season, one year after breaking its own record with 11 spots in
the field.  The reigning U.S. Amateur golf champion,  Kelly Kraft ,
completed his senior year at SMU in 2011. Kraft a month ago
missed the halfway cut at the Texas Open in his first start on
the U.S.  PGA Tour  as a professional.  Kraft is the third golfer in 14 years from the Dallas
school to win the top amateur title, joining Hank Kuehne (1998)
and Colt Knost (2007).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 