-- South Africa Output Less Than Forecast, Gordhan Says
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-05-18T11:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/south-africa-output-less-than-forecast-gordhan-says.html
South Africa ’s economic  growth  in the
first quarter will probably be slower than forecast after weak
mining and manufacturing production, and retail sales data,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  “Output growth in the first quarter of this year was
slower than we forecast at budget time,” Gordhan told lawmakers
in Cape Town today. This was “mainly due to the impact of the
Impala Platinum strike on mining production, retail sales have
also slowed somewhat and manufacturing production was somewhat
disappointing.”  Gordhan in February cut his growth forecast for this year
to 2.7 percent because of the debt crisis and possible recession
in Europe, South Africa’s largest trading partner, where  Greece 
may default on its debts. Economic uncertainty in  Europe , the
U.S. and China made for an “increasingly dangerous global
environment,” Gordhan said.  Lower growth may reduce the chances the central bank will
raise its  benchmark lending rate  this year from 5.5 percent, the
lowest level in more than three decades. The National Treasury
hasn’t given an estimate for first-quarter expansion. Statistics
South Africa is scheduled to released the data on May 31.  Inflation Subdued  Mining production  fell an average of 9.4 percent in the
first three months of the year while  manufacturing  output
declined for the first time in eight months in March,
contracting an annual 2.7 percent, according to the statistics
agency.  Retail sales  dropped 1.2 percent in the first quarter
compared with the previous three months, it said on May 16.  A strike in January shut operations at  Impala Platinum (IMP) 
Holdings Ltd.’s Rustenburg mine for two weeks. The company is
the world’s second-biggest producer of the metal.  Despite high  oil prices  and a weak rand, “inflationary
pressures have remained relatively subdued,” Gordhan said.
South Africa’s consumer  inflation rate  was 6 percent in March,
the top end of the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target.  With parts of Europe “set to be trapped in economic
recession for some time to come,” South Africa is seeking to
boost trade with  emerging markets , Trade and Industry Minister
 Rob Davies  told lawmakers.  “South Africa’s trade and investment strategy will focus
on the BRICS countries, high-growth markets in Africa, Middle
East, Asia and other emerging economies such as Turkey,
Indonesia, Chile, Vietnam and Thailand,” Davies said. South
Africa is part of the BRICS grouping with Brazil, Russia,  India 
and  China .  Roads Agency Debt  The government won’t let the South African National Road
Agency SOC Ltd. default on its debt, Gordhan said. The company’s
plan to start electronic tolls to pay for upgrades of highways
around Johannesburg was delayed, resulting in 200 million rand
($24 million) in monthly losses, Gordhan said.  Consumer and labor groups won a court interdict on April 28
to delay the tolls. They were due to help repay 37.9 billion
rand of debt, according to the government.  This government will do “whatever it takes” to meet its
debt commitments,’’ Gordhan said. “There is no danger to any
state-owned entity. South Africa has a very, very proud
history” in managing its debt sustainably, he said.  The rand strengthened 0.4 percent to 8.3037 against the
dollar by 13:30 p.m. in Johannesburg. Forward-rate agreements
starting in 12 months fell 12.5 basis points to 5.6350 percent
as investors pared bets on an interest-rate increase in the next
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  