-- Spanish Banks’ Bonds Slide After Moody’s Downgrades Ratings
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-05-18T10:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/spanish-banks-bonds-slide-after-moody-s-downgrades-ratings.html
Bonds of Spanish banks fell after
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 16 of the nation’s lenders
and said it may cut seven of them again because of the state of
the economy and the government’s deteriorating credit.  The yield premium investors demand to hold the 1 billion
euros ($1.23 billion) of senior unsecured 4 percent bonds due
2017 of  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , whose rating was cut three levels to
A3 to match the sovereign, rose to 503 basis points more than
similar-maturity German debt, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader. The spread demanded over the benchmark swap rate, 250
basis points when the notes were issued in March, rose to 392
basis points, the prices show.  The Spanish economy, which fell back into recession in the
first quarter of 2012, is still reeling from the 2008 implosion
of the nation’s real-estate bubble. The weakening economy is
reflected in banks’ poorer asset quality, with Moody’s expecting
delinquencies to increase in coming quarters and lenders’ access
to  capital markets  restricted.  “The bank downgrades in effect follow the cut to the
sovereign rating in February, as well as the wider economic
problems,” said  John Raymond , an analyst at CreditSights Inc.
in  London . “Given the circumstances, Moody’s timing wasn’t very
good, either.”  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the publicly traded arm of the banking group
taken over by the Spanish government last week, wasn’t affected
by the ratings review. The lender, whose shares fell as much as
29 percent yesterday after a report depositors were withdrawing
their money, is rated Baa3, one level above junk, at Moody’s.  Greek Fallout  “Potential fallout from the Greek situation, added to
reports of deposit flight and the economic problems, are more
important than the Moody’s downgrades,” said Raymond. “Bankia,
which is at the center of it all, wasn’t even affected.”  The yield premium on the 500 million euros of 4.875 percent
bonds due 2016 issued by  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
increased to 473 basis points, the widest since Jan. 2,
Bloomberg data show. The Bilbao, Spain-based lender’s rating was
reduced three levels to A3.  The lender’s 645 million euros of undated 8.5 percent
preferred securities held at a record 78 cents on the euro,
giving a yield of more than 20 percent, based on the bank
repurchasing them in 2014, according to Jefferies International
prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  