-- Spanish Banks’ Bad Loans Worsen as Recession Bites: Economy
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-18T16:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/spanish-banks-bad-loans-worsen-in-march-as-recession-deepens.html
More Spanish loans soured in March,
fueling concern that the government’s focus on making banks
clean up real estate was too narrow as the country’s economy
entered a recession.  Bad loans  as a proportion of total lending jumped to 8.37
percent in March, the  highest since August 1994 , from a restated
8.30 percent in February, according to data published today by
the Bank of  Spain . As much as 8.21 billion euros of loans soured
in the first quarter, 90 percent more than in the same period of
last year. The regulator said a further 4.15 billion euros ($5.3
billion) of loans went bad, in addition to its original 143.82
billion-euro total for February before the number was restated.  Spain’s government said on May 11 it would make banks take
charges of about 30 billion euros to cover potential losses on
real-estate loans that are still performing, adding to about 54
billion euros of provisions and capital ordered in February.
With unemployment topping 24 percent and the economy set to
shrink 1.8 percent this year, according to International
Monetary Fund estimates, analysts say the state will need to
impose more charges on banks as the slump damages assets beyond
real estate.  “As the economy keeps getting worse, the banks will keep
on having to make provisions to account for the negative impact
of the lower activity and the higher unemployment,” Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank A/S, said by telephone.
“The first step in reaching a solution is recognizing the scale
of the problem, and we’re not there yet.”  Sales of Protection  U.S. banks increased sales of protection against credit
losses to holders of Greek, Portuguese, Irish, Spanish and
Italian debt in the last quarter of 2011 as the  European debt
crisis  escalated.  Guarantees provided by U.S. lenders on government, bank and
corporate debt in those countries rose 10 percent from the
previous quarter to $567 billion, according to the most recent
data from the  Bank for International Settlements . Those
guarantees refer to credit-default swaps written on bonds.  In  Asia , surging food costs offer the most visible sign of
India’s inability to contain price pressures, threatening
spending in the world’s second-most populous nation. Even as the
nation’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation has eased to below
9 percent after breaching that level most of last year, a
recently introduced consumer-price gauge shows how little room
the central bank has cut to cut  interest rates  and spur growth.  Bad Loans  India ’s consumer-price index climbed 10.36 percent from a
year earlier in April as prices of cereal, pulses, milk and meat
products rose, compared with a revised 9.38 percent advance in
March, a report showed today.  Concern more  bad loans  will come to light at Spanish banks
has driven up the country’s borrowing costs on speculation the
final bill may hurt government finances. Spanish 10-year bond
yields surged to 6.46 percent this week, the highest since
November. The yield slipped to 6.26 percent today, reducing the
spread over German bunds of similar maturity to 4.84 percentage
points.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 16 Spanish banks last
night, citing the nation’s recession, reduced funding access for
lenders and deterioration in loan quality that will spread
beyond real estate to household and company loans.  “Mortgages to individuals have been quite resilient,”
Maria Cabanyes, a Moody’s analyst in  Madrid , said by phone
today. “We don’t think this is sustainable given the
government’s austerity program and high unemployment.”  Spain will announce on May 21 its choice of two companies
to audit the banks’ loan books, Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said today. BlackRock Inc. and  Oliver Wyman 
are among contenders for the work, according to a government
official who asked not to be identified and briefed reporters in
Madrid last night. The government will make the findings of the
two-stage audits public and expects that the more than 600
billion euros of Spanish  mortgage loans  are generally properly
valued and provisioned for, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  