-- Stagecoach Grows Megabus Via $134 Million Coach America Deal
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-05-18T13:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/stagecoach-expands-megabus-with-134-million-coach-america-deal.html
Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) , the operator of
Britain’s busiest commuter-train service, said it agreed to buy
nine Coach America Inc. businesses out of  bankruptcy protection 
for $134 million to expand its long-distance Megabus network.  The units being acquired are spread across the U.S. and
include operations in Atlanta, Dallas and Sacramento, allowing
Perth, Scotland-based Stagecoach to add depots and vehicles
without relying on subcontractors, it said today in a statement.  Stagecoach said last June it planned to tap surging demand
from cost-conscious U.S. travelers by extending Megabus services
centered on Chicago,  New York , Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and
 Washington  to California, Florida and Texas. The units the U.K.
company is acquiring from Coach America had an operating profit
of $13.3 million last year from sales of $164.4 million.  “Our North American division is the fastest-growing part
of the group and this transaction will allow us to acquire
selected businesses and vehicles at attractive prices in markets
and regions we know well,”  Brian Souter , Stagecoach’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  2003 Buyout  Dallas-based Coach America was formed in 2003 when buyout
firm Kohlberg & Co. bought assets of Stagecoach’s own Coach USA
unit. It filed for Chapter 11 on Jan. 3, saying the aim was to
reduce debt and emerge with “right-sized  capital structure .”  The Stagecoach purchase is subject to approval by the  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  of Delaware, the company said, adding that it
expects to win backing by May 22. The deal also needs antitrust
approval and should be completed within three months, it added.  At the option of the seller, a further 85 buses may be
purchased for as much as $25.6 million in cash, Stagecoach said.  Stagecoach currently operates about 1,900 vehicles in North
America, compared with 7,700 mainly city buses in Britain. It
also runs Britain’s South West Trains and East Midlands Trains
commuter services and has a 49 percent stake in Virgin Rail.  The Megabus operation was founded in 2006 and links about
80 U.S. and Canadian cities, offering fares starting at $1 and
competing mainly with discount airlines and the private car.
Bus-based rivals include  Greyhound Express  and  BoltBus , units of
Aberdeen Scotland-based  FirstGroup Plc. (FGP)   Stagecoach’s  Coach USA , now limited to the northeast,
Midwest and Canada, once operated a broader North American
business focused mainly on shorter routes and charter services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  