-- State Bank of India Climbs as Profit Hits a Record: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-05-18T10:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/state-bank-of-india-fourth-quarter-profit-climbs-to-a-record.html
State Bank of India Ltd. , the
nation’s largest lender, gained the most in more than two months
after posting a record profit in the fourth quarter, beating
analysts’ estimates.  Net income  climbed to 40.5 billion rupees ($738 million),
or 63.76 rupees a share, for the three months ended March 31,
from 208.8 million rupees, or 0.33 rupees, a year earlier, the
Mumbai-based bank said in a statement to the exchanges today.
That compares with the 35.3 billion-rupee median of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  State Bank’s  risk buffers  widened in the quarter, following
a 79 billion-rupee capital infusion by the government, while its
bad-debt ratio narrowed from December levels. The profit
increase was driven by a gain in loan income and a drop in funds
set aside for defaults. Policy makers are further easing a
credit squeeze by cutting banks’ reserve requirements.  “With a capital buffer above the government target and
reduction in bad loans, the lender seems to be getting back on
the growth track,” said Dolly Parmar, a banking analyst at
Mumbai-based brokerage IFCI Financial Services Ltd. “The bank
will be in a position to grow aggressively if the government
sticks to its promise of further capital infusion this year.”  The injection of funds by the government,  State Bank ’s
biggest shareholder, ended a two-year wait and allowed the
lender to meet tighter global rules and replenish capital
depleted by provisions against bad loans. The bank’s capital
adequacy ratio under the so-called Basel II norms widened to
13.86 percent in the quarter from 11.98 percent last year, it
said today.  Shares Gain  The lender gained 5 percent, the most since Feb. 28, to
1,940.55 rupees in Mumbai trading today.  The stock  rose 29
percent last quarter for its best performance since the three
months ended September 2010, and surpassed the 13 percent gain
in the benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index during the period.  Net interest income, or revenue from lending minus payments
on deposits, rose 44 percent to 116 billion rupees while non-
interest income climbed 11.7 percent to 54 billion rupees, State
Bank said. The net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, widened to 3.9 percent from 3.1 percent a year
ago.  Soured loans at State Bank fell to 4.4 percent of total
credits in the quarter ended March 31, from 4.6 percent in the
quarter ended December 31. The lender had reported a 99 percent
decline in profit a year earlier as provisions for bad loans and
pensions increased.  ‘Declared War’  “We declared war on non-performing loans and it seems like
we are winning,” Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri said in a televised
press conference in Kolkata. “The fall in bad loans gives us
the confidence that the quality of loans is well under
control.”  Non-performing loans of state-run Indian banks climbed to
2.84 percent of total advances in the year ended March 31, from
2.35 percent in the prior year, junior finance minister Namo Narain Meena said on May 8.  Indian banks may need to raise as much as $50 billion to
add to their retained earnings by 2018 to meet  capital
requirements  at a time when their credit ratings are being
squeezed by slowing economic growth and bad loans,  Fitch Ratings 
said on May 4. State Bank will be the most affected by the
higher requirements given its market share, Fitch senior
director Ananda Bhoumik said in a statement at the time.  The government will infuse further capital into the state-
owned lender to help it comply with capital norms, D.K Mittal,
banking secretary at the  finance ministry , said in an interview
on March 21.  Wider Margin  The 205-year-old bank’s total outstanding loans increased
by 15 percent to 8.68 trillion rupees at the end of March from
7.57 trillion rupees a year earlier. The net interest margin, a
measure of lending profitability, widened to 3.9 percent from
3.1 percent in the year before.  The nation’s  bank loans , excluding advances made to state
agencies for food procurement, expanded by 19 percent as of
March 30 from a year earlier, according to data compiled by the
central bank.  Credit-default swaps on State Bank fell 37 basis points
this year to 358 basis points yesterday, according to CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in privately negotiated markets. The swaps pay face value for
the underlying debt should a company fail to adhere to its
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  