-- Sternlicht Searches for Yield at Second-Tier U.S. Malls
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-05-18T20:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/sternlicht-searches-for-yield-at-second-tier-u-s-malls.html
Investors including  Barry Sternlicht 
and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  are buying second-tier shopping malls in places
from Lincoln, Nebraska, to suburban Chicago in a hunt for higher
yields as retail sales at the properties rebound.  Sternlicht’s Starwood Capital Group LLC and KKR, run by
 Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , have announced acquisitions of
so-called B malls in the past month, and  Pennsylvania Real
Estate Investment Trust (PEI) , the Philadelphia-based owner of such
centers mainly in the mid-Atlantic region, is the best-
performing mall REIT this year.  Growing interest in B malls is a turnaround from last year,
when investors mostly sought the perceived safety of better-
performing properties with higher average tenant sales in the
most desirable markets.  REITs (BBREMALL)  with luxury department stores at
well-located malls had outperformed landlords with retail
centers in such small cities as Rockford, Illinois.  “The investor community just wasn’t ready to take on the
risks associated with those malls,” said  Dan Fasulo , managing
director at New York-based real estate research firm Real
Capital Analytics Inc. “They’ve started to trade again.”  Starwood, a private-equity firm based in Greenwich,
Connecticut, agreed last month to buy majority interests in
seven U.S. retail centers from Australia’s  Westfield Group (WDC)  for
$1 billion, and KKR on April 19 said it made an investment of
about $196 million in a mall about 20 miles (32 kilometers) west
of downtown Chicago. It was the New York-based buyout firm’s
first U.S. acquisition under its new real estate division.  Pennsylvania REIT  Pennsylvania REIT, which is marketing five of its lower-
quality malls in a bid to improve its portfolio, showed “some
good results” in the first quarter, Jeffrey Lau, an analyst at
Sidoti & Co. in  New York , said in a telephone interview. Net
operating income rose 3.4 percent from a year earlier, and
tenant sales per square foot increased 5.3 percent to a record
$376, the company said on April 24.  “That’s going to continue and that should bode well for
the stock price,” said Lau, who has a buy rating on the shares.
“These asset sales that the company is pursuing, that’s really
going to help them further reduce debt.”  Pennsylvania REIT fell 3.4 percent to $12.35 at the close
of New York trading. The mall owner’s shares have  climbed  18
percent this year, more than the 11 percent increase in
Bloomberg’s regional mall REIT index and the 5 percent gain in
the broader Bloomberg REIT index.  Lower Yields  Demand last year for class A retail centers pushed down
yields, driving investors seeking higher returns to B malls.  Capitalization rates, a measure of gains for real estate
investors, average 5 percent to 6 percent for class A centers,
said  Rich Moore , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Solon,
Ohio. For B malls, cap rates -- a property’s net operating
income divided by its purchase price -- range from 7.5 percent
to 10 percent. Top centers in smaller markets often have cap
rates of 6 percent to 7.5 percent, Moore said.  Financing for buyers is improving as well because loan
providers who sell their debt as commercial mortgage-backed
securities are “opening up a little bit to the B-mall market,”
Benjamin Yang, an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc., said
in a telephone interview. A shortage of financing last year hurt
sales of B malls, Yang said.  “Investors are gaining more comfort that the fundamentals
are stabilizing and there’s an opportunity to grow” net
operating income at B malls, Yang said.  More Food Options  Starwood plans to “repurpose” some of the properties it’s
buying by bringing in more entertainment and food options,
Sternlicht said in a May 1 Bloomberg television interview. While
some of the properties are in such smaller cities as Fairfield,
California, and Lincoln, they’re the dominant malls in their
towns, he said.  The Westfield malls had sales of $373 a square foot and
were 93.8 percent leased at the end of 2011, according to an
April 18 statement from the Sydney-based company. The figures
exclude Metreon, a San Francisco property that’s being
redeveloped.  Sales at  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) ’s U.S. malls and outlet
centers totaled $546 per square foot for the trailing 12 months
as of March 31, the Indianapolis-based company, which is the
biggest U.S. shopping mall owner, said on April 27.  Taubman
Centers Inc. (TCO) ’s 12-month trailing mall tenant sales were $659 per
square foot, the Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based company said
April 26.  Simon led mall REITs last year with a 30 percent increase
in its share price, followed by Taubman with a 23 percent gain.  Nordstrom, Neiman  Class A malls, such as those that dominate Simon and
Taubman’s portfolios, tend to have high per-square-foot sales
and such luxury retailers as  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  and Neiman Marcus
Group Inc. as their anchor tenants. B malls have lower sales and
higher vacancy rates and usually are anchored by lower-priced
department stores such as  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)   With sales rising at B malls, REITs are joining private-
equity firms as buyers of the properties.  CBL & Associates
Properties Inc. (CBL) , a retail landlord based in Chattanooga,
Tennessee, on May 16 said it bought Dakota Square Mall in Minot,
 North Dakota , for $91.5 million. The center had sales of $470
per square foot in the 12 months ended March 31, CBL said.  Rouse Properties Inc. (RSE) , an owner of B malls that was spun
off from Chicago-based  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the
second-largest U.S. retail landlord, may also be shopping. The
New York-based company’s strategy is to acquire the dominant
centers in secondary markets.  “We’re seeing lots of deal flow, which is quite
encouraging to us,” Andrew Silberfein, Rouse’s chief executive
officer, said on May 16 on a conference call with analysts. “We
are going to be selective and opportunistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in  Chicago  at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  