-- Sugar Falls as Surplus Weighs; Coffee Drops; Cocoa Gains
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-05-18T18:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/sugar-falls-as-surplus-weighs-coffee-drops-cocoa-gains.html
Raw-sugar futures fell for the first
time this week on concern that global supplies will outpace
demand even as output slides in  Brazil , the world’s biggest
producer. Coffee also dropped, while cocoa rose.  There will be a sugar surplus of as much as 6 million
metric tons, Nick Penney, a senior trader at Sucden Financial
Ltd in London, wrote in a report today. The crop in Brazil’s
center south, the country’s main growing region, may be as low
as 470 million tons, Sucden said. The forecast is lower than
last year’s crop of 493.3 million tons, and below industry group
Unica’s estimate of 509 million tons.  “There is still much supply in other producing countries,
and Brazil, while remaining in the headlines, may not be as much
of a factor this year as its disappointing crop was last year,”
Penney said in the report.  Raw sugar for July delivery slid 1.9 percent to settle at
20.47 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .
The commodity still posted a 1.2 percent weekly advance, ending
a seven-week slump.  Prices may fall to 19.5 cents in the “medium term” and
possibly as low as 18.5 cents, making it more profitable to
produce ethanol from cane crops rather than refined sweetener,
Sucden said.  “The world surplus will weigh on July and October”
futures contracts, Jeff Bauml, a senior vice president for R.J.
O’Brien & Associates in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Arabica-coffee futures for July delivery fell 0.5 percent
to $1.7915 a pound on ICE.  Cocoa futures for July delivery climbed 2.2 percent to
$2,273 a ton in New York.  In London futures trading, refined sugar fell, while
robusta coffee and cocoa rose on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  