-- Sunscreen Labeling Delay Should Be Reversed, Senators Say
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-18T20:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/sunscreen-labeling-delay-should-be-reversed-senators-say.html
Stricter sunscreen labeling rules
should be imposed in June rather than allowing a six-month delay
for the industry to comply, U.S. Senator  Jack Reed  of Rhode
Island and five other lawmakers  said .  The industry in June 2011 was given one year to adjust to
labeling rules that will no longer allow “sweatproof” or
“waterproof” claims, and will require products with sun
protection factors below 15 to state that they don’t prevent
skin cancer or early aging. The Food and Drug Administration
also will require makers such as  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Merck &
Co. (MRK)  to prove claims of sunscreens lasting longer than two hours.  The FDA  delayed  the rules until December at the earliest
after lobbying groups for the cosmetics and over-the-counter
pharmaceutical industries said they needed more time to comply.
The senators said the delay will expose Americans to another
season without accurate information about sun protection.  “Once again, the summer months are upon us and millions of
Americans will be spending time outdoors without adequate
protection from the sun,” the senators wrote to FDA
Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg . “FDA’s decision is a major step
backward, and we strongly urge you to reverse it.”  Farah Ahmed, chairwoman of Personal Care Products Council
sunscreen task force, said consumers would face a shortage of
sunscreens without the delay.  The industry needs more than one year to change labeling,
particularly to reflect a drug facts box like the one
pharmaceuticals bear, Ahmed said in a telephone interview.  FDA Delay  The FDA delayed the rules until December for products with
$25,000 or more in sales and until December 2013 for products
with sales of less than $25,000.  The senators who signed the letter asking for that delay to
be overturned are Democrats  Charles Schumer  and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York,  John Kerry  of Massachusetts, Patrick Leahy of Vermont and Reed. Senator  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont
independent, also signed the letter.  Shelly Burgess, an FDA spokeswoman, said the agency would
respond directly to the senators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  