-- Suzlon Expects to Raise $300 Million to Pay Bondholders
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-18T19:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/suzlon-may-raise-up-to-300-million-to-pay-bondholders.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  expects to raise
as much as $300 million by next month in time to pay
bondholders, quelling concerns that  India ’s biggest wind-turbine
maker may be headed for default.  A group of about 20 banks, including SBI Capital Markets
Ltd.,  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  and  Bank of Baroda (BOB)  have agreed in principle
to extend a dollar-denominated  term loan , Vikas Rathee, Suzlon’s
vice president and head of corporate finance, said yesterday in
an interview in Mumbai.  SBI Capital Executive Vice President Supratim Sarkar said
the lender is “extremely confident” of closing the deal in
time to ensure Suzlon meets its June bond repayments in full.  Suzlon has $358 million of dollar-denominated convertible
notes maturing on June 12. Bondholders are supportive of a 45-
day extension Suzlon has requested in case of procedural delays,
which won’t result in any penalties, Rathee said.  “This is certainly great news,” Rosita D’Souza, a
Singapore-based credit analyst at Elara Capital Plc, said in a
phone interview.  D’Souza said the new loan combined with internal cash and
$40 million Suzlon got from selling two wind farms in April
should allow it to safely meet its obligations this year. In
October, another $200 million of convertible bonds mature,
Rathee said.  “They should be all right,” D’Souza said. “That’s still
awhile away and they have some time and breathing room now to
explore other options if necessary.”  That puts to rest concerns that Suzlon might not be able to
meet its obligations. HSBC Holdings Plc estimated in March that
Suzlon could fall short by as much as $592 million out of $700
million in bonds and loans due in the next 12 months.  Suzlon’s shares closed 0.5 percent higher at 20.1 rupees
yesterday at the end of the week’s trading before the
announcement. The stock has fallen 62 percent over the past 12
months.  ‘Out of Woods’  “When we’ve paid these bonds, we’ll be out of the woods,”
Rathee said. Suzlon still hopes lenders will disburse the funds
by June 10 to avoid an extension, he said.  The new loan will probably be raised by Suzlon’s overseas
holding company, AE-Rotor Holding BV, and won’t require posting
fresh collateral. Raising the dollar loan overseas will allow
Suzlon to better re-balance debt across the group and reduce
interest costs, Rathee said.  Suzlon plans to sell new, high-yield bonds later this year,
Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said last month. Suzlon
hasn’t appointed bankers yet and is “waiting for the right
window,” Rathee said. “The market has to be there.”  Selling a new bond under current market conditions could
still be difficult, though paying off the June bond may help
renew investor confidence in the company, Elara’s D’Souza said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  