-- Swiss Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Decline Since November
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-05-18T15:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/swiss-stocks-head-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-november.html
Swiss stocks  fell, for their biggest
weekly drop since November, as industrial goods and services
companies slumped amid signs of slowing growth in China and as
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Spanish lenders.  SGS SA (SGSN) , the world’s largest industrial-inspection company,
dropped 2.7 percent and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest maker of
power-transmission gear, retreated 2.8 percent. Financial shares
declined, with  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  dropping more
than 1 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  dropped 1.3 percent to 5,797.76 at
the close in Zurich after China’s home prices fell in a record
number of cities last month and car dealers posted inventory
levels that foreshadowed deeper price cuts. The measure has
retreated to the lowest level since Dec. 19 after sliding 2.6
percent this week. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
slipped 1.3 percent today.  “House-prices data coming out from China raise fears of a
hard landing,” said John Plassard, director at Louis Capital
Markets SA in Geneva. “ China ’s central bank will have to
intervene again in the coming days. The downgrade of Spanish
banks may not actually have been so surprising, but it comes at
a time when markets are weak and sentiment nervous because of
increasing contagion-risk worries.”  The combined volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed
companies today was 58 percent more than the average of the last
30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Swiss Exchange was
closed for a holiday yesterday.  Chinese Economy  Prices of new homes in China fell from a year earlier in 46
of the 70 cities tracked by the National Bureau of Statistics,
the agency said today. Dealerships for Honda Motor Co., Chery
Automobile Co., BYD Co. and Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. had
more than 45 days of inventory at the end of last month,
according to an official from the government-backed China
Automobile Dealers Association.  Moody’s lowered debt ratings at 16 Spanish banks, citing a
surge in soured loans, the country’s recession, restricted
funding access and the reduced ability of the government to
support lenders as its own creditworthiness diminishes. The
moves follow Moody’s May 14 downgrade of 26 Italian banks and
its Feb. 13 cut of Spaimsgn’s sovereign debt.  Almost $4 trillion has been wiped from global equity
markets this month as  Greece  moved closer toward leaving the
euro currency union. The country’s credit rating was reduced one
level to CCC from B- by Fitch Ratings amid concern it will not
muster the political support needed to sustain its euro
membership.  Risk Aversion  “Until the upcoming elections in Greece on June 17,
uncertainty and hence the strong  risk aversion  will remain,”
 Joerg Kraemer , chief economist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt ,
wrote in a report today. “Politics still set the agenda for the
markets.”  SGS dropped 2.7 percent to 1,678 Swiss francs after the
company said it acquired Scotland-based Vitrology Ltd., which
has revenue of more than 3 million pounds ($4.8 million).  ABB retreated 2.8 percent to 15.22 francs as a  gauge  of
European industrial goods and services companies lost 1.6
percent.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest supplier of temporary
workers, fell 2.3 percent to 37.75 francs. Kuehne & Nagel
International AG, the world’s largest sea-freight forwarder,
lost 2.4 percent to 100.90 francs.  UBS and Credit Suisse Group dropped 2.4 percent to 10.69
francs and 1.3 percent to 18.67 francs. Swiss Re Ltd. retreated
2.9 percent to 54.25 francs. Julius Group Baer Ltd. slipped 4.1
percent to 30.90 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  