-- U.S. Farmers Union Demands 30-Day Review of CME Trading Plan
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2012-05-18T07:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/u-s-farmers-union-demands-30-day-review-of-cme-trading-plan-1-.html
The U.S. National Farmers Union asked
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to start a 30-day
review period of extended trading hours by CME Group Inc. and
Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  The moves to extend trading hours “have alarmed many of
NFU’s members, many of whom are involved in the cash grains
market,” NFU President  Roger Johnson  said in a statement on the
group’s website. “Concerns regarding the volatile price swings
that occur when U.S. Department of Agriculture reports are
released have been voiced.”  Chicago-based CME, the world’s largest futures exchange,
delayed plans to expand grain trading hours for the second time
this month on May 16. Traders led by R.J. O’Brien & Associates
and the two largest U.S. grain-handling organizations objected
to CME’s changes because markets would be open during the
release of USDA reports, increasing volatility and reducing
their ability to make informed decisions.  Corn prices on the exchange have dropped 3.4 percent this
year and soybeans are up 18 percent.  ICE, as the Intercontinental Exchange energy and
agriculture marketplace is known, targeted CME by offering grain
contracts for the first time on May 14 that trade 22 hours a
day. Yesterday, CME said its Chicago Board of Trade will be open
for trading from 5 p.m. to 2 p.m. Chicago time Sunday through
Friday, or 21 hours a day after withdrawing an earlier plan for
22 hours. The CBOT currently allows trading 17 hours a day.  The USDA monthly crop reports are released at 7:30 a.m.
Chicago time when grain trading has traditionally been halted.
No date was set for the transition.  The Washington-based National Farmers Union represents
about 200,000 farmers, ranchers and fishermen, according to its
website.  The National Grain & Feed Association and the North
American Export Grain Association, the two largest U.S. grain-
handling organizations, also objected to CME’s shift to a 22-
hour trading day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  