-- U.S. Can Create Jobs by Energizing Its Startups
-- B y   A n d r e w   R a z e g h i
-- 2012-05-18T02:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/u-s-can-create-jobs-by-energizing-its-startups.html
The U.S. doesn’t need a new economic
engine. It already has one: entrepreneurship. It’s just that we
aren’t getting the mileage out of it that we could.  Small businesses are instrumental to the  U.S. economy . They
employ 50 percent of all private-sector workers and create more
than 60 percent of new jobs. The proof is present; entrepreneurs
and small-business owners can revive the economy but they need
more than just capital.  As we look to help entrepreneurs lead the recovery, we need
to increase resources and implement strategic initiatives to
make entrepreneurship more accessible. Here are three ways for
the federal government to build an infrastructure and a national
campaign to spur entrepreneurship.  First, we need to reduce the financial risk for recent
college graduates to start businesses. As an educator who
teaches innovation, I know that the reason most of our best and
brightest don’t pursue their startup ideas isn’t that they lack
the knowledge, talent or access to  venture capital ; rather, they
forgo their dreams to pay down their  student loans .  Some have suggested that people should drop out of school
and start business, holding up the model of some well-known
success stories. Those are outliers. Most college dropouts don’t
achieve the success of  Bill Gates .  Job-Creation Incentives  Instead, we should put in place incentives for college
graduates to start businesses. For every job they create beyond
their own, they should earn credit to use against their student
loans. This will increase the motivation to start businesses.  Second, we need to develop a pipeline of highly skilled
labor, creating “talent incubators” where the government can
train people in high-growth industries, such as technology.  A similar approach has been followed by  Israel , where
military personnel are trained for combat but also learn and
develop skills in computer programming. This has been an
effective pillar of the country’s innovation strategy and has
helped make it one of the world’s most advanced innovation and
research-and-development centers.  Finally, we need to find a large group of willing and able
high-potential entrepreneurs who can mentor the next generation.
Many ideas, good intentions and venture dollars have been lost
because people repeat the same mistakes.  Just as in 1961, when our nation responded to a different
challenge by creating the  Peace Corps , we could now create a
Startup Corps for America. This group would provide the vital
mentoring and coaching needed to help entrepreneurs avoid common
mistakes and develop business models that create new wealth. In
addition, it would offer assistance such as reduced cost
services and facilities; talent scouting and recruiting; proof-of-concept opportunities; distribution and capital. It could
complement existing efforts by the  Startup America Partnership 
led by the Case Foundation and the Kauffman Foundation.  Fostering and investing in small businesses and high-potential entrepreneurs would give the U.S. a much better chance
of a turnaround.  (Andrew Razeghi, a professor of marketing at the  Kellogg
School  of Management,  Northwestern University , is a contributor
to  Business Class . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  job polarization  and
 ways to save Syria ; William Pesek on  China’s declining soft
power ; Vali Nasr on  Europe and Iran ; Rachelle Bergstein on
 corporate pumps ;  Mark Taylor  on  competing colleges ; Ted Gayer
and Phillip Swagel on  mortgage-principal deductions .  To contact the writer of this article:
Andrew Razeghi at  a-razeghi@kellogg.northwestern.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  