-- Huawei’s MediaPad Tablet Tested by Tribune Co. as News Reader
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-18T07:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/huawei-s-mediapad-tablet-tested-by-tribune-co-as-news-reader.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest maker of phone equipment, said its MediaPad tablet
computers are being tested by Tribune Co. as news readers.  The  Chicago Tribune  and Los Angeles Times are conducting
trials of the tablets through the end of this month, and the
devices may be rolled out nationwide once those tests are
complete, said James Jiang, executive vice president of product
solutions at Huawei’s device business in the U.S.  Huawei founder Ren Zhengfei is diversifying the company
into consumer mobile devices to expand business in the U.S.,
where lawmakers have opposed sales of its phone-network
equipment because of his Chinese military background. Tribune
Chief Executive Officer Eddy Hartenstein is seeking to add a new
business to stem losses from declining newspaper circulation and
increased printing costs.  “We are always looking for opportunities to provide
companies with products and solutions that will enhance the
level of service that they provide to their customers,” Jiang
said in an e-mail. “In this case, it is about providing the
Tribune’s readers with a platform that allows them to access
news and other content.”  The Chicago-based Tribune Co., which also owns radio and TV
stations, filed for bankruptcy in 2008, one year after a
leveraged buyout led by real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell .
Tribune, valued earlier this year by the company at more than $7
billion, owes creditors about $13 billion. The company said May
15 it will stop publishing LA, Los Angeles Times Magazine, on
June 3.  Gary Weitman , a Tribune spokesman, declined to comment.  Huawei unveiled the MediaPad tablet, which runs Google
Inc.’s Android operating system, last year as profit was cut by
half. Huawei plans to boost total revenue as much as 20 percent
this year, aided by the push into the consumer market,
Controller C.T. Johnson said last month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  