-- Uchumi of Kenya Gains for Seventh Day, Hits Six-Year High
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-05-18T10:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/uchumi-of-kenya-gains-for-seventh-day-hits-six-year-high-1-.html
Uchumi Supermarkets Ltd. (UCSP) , Kenya’s
only publicly traded grocer, gained for a seventh day and
reached its strongest level in more than six years as the
company expanded and the value of retail trade increased.  The stock advanced 4.1 percent to 18 shillings by 12:23
p.m. in Nairobi, the capital. A close at that level would be the
highest since March 2, 2006, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Uchumi is expanding in the region and when you look at
the supermarket business, they have the best margin,” Rufus
Mwanyasi, head trader at Nairobi-based Canaan Capital Ltd. said
in a phone interview today. “The middle class is also growing
so investors are looking for consumer stocks.”  In the year to December 2011, the value of wholesale and
retail trade in  Kenya  grew to 321 billion shillings ($3.80
billion) from 261 billion shillings, according to the latest
economy survey released by the Ministry of Planning on May 15.  Year to date the stock has surged 134 percent, the best
performing Kenyan stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Uchumi , which opened its first store in  Dar es
Salaam , Tanzania’s commercial capital, in August and a second
one in  Uganda , plans to open another seven outlets in the
region, three in Uganda and four in Kenya, Managing Director
Jonathan Ciano said in September.  The company’s pretax profit for the six months through
December climbed 26 percent to 204.3 million shillings, Uchumi
said in January. Nairobi-based Kestrel Capital ( East Africa )
Ltd. recommended investors buy the stock in March, initiating
coverage with a price estimate of 15 shillings and saying the
board of directors would probably discuss the company’s dividend
policy at the end of the financial year in June.  Uchumi resumed trading in Nairobi in May 2011, following a
five-year suspension, after most of its debts were cleared and
others were converted into shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  