-- Union Bank Nigeria Falls to Lowest in 3 Weeks: Lagos Mover
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-05-18T15:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/union-bank-nigeria-set-for-biggest-fall-in-7-weeks-lagos-mover.html
Union Bank Nigeria Plc (UBN) , one of eight
lenders bailed out by the central bank three years ago, fell to
the lowest in almost three weeks after the lender pulled its
share sale.  The stock slid 4.9 percent to 4.09 naira at the close in
Lagos, the commercial capital, the lowest since April 30.  Union Bank halted the sale of 1.4 billion shares after the
15.25 percent subscription fell below the regulatory
requirements, the Lagos-based lender said today in a notice
published in Lagos-based BusinessDay newspaper. Investors will
be refunded at 3 percent interest rate before May 31 as directed
by the Securities and Exchange Commission, it said.  Union Bank planned to raise 10 billion naira ($63 million)
from the sale to existing shareholders at 6.81 naira per share
to help meet stipulated  capital requirements , the lender said
Dec. 14. A group led by African Capital Alliance invested $750
million into the bank, while the Asset Management Corp. of
 Nigeria , or Amcon, set up by the government to buy bad loans
from banks is also invested in the lender.  “This takes them back to the drawing board and they have
to decide which way forward,” Eugene Ezenwa, chief operating
officer of PAC Securities Limited, a Lagos-based brokerage, said
by phone today. “It will affect the share price because it
means either that the board and management are weak or the
existing shareholders lack confidence in the organization.”  The central bank of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer fired the
chief executive officers of eight of the nation’s 24 lenders in
2009 after a debt crisis threatened the banking industry with
collapse. It bailed out eight lenders with 620 billion naira and
Amcon was set up to buy the bad debts, allowing banks to resume
lending and rebuilding their balance sheets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  