-- Turkish Bonds Advance as Basci Sees Inflation Declining in May
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-18T14:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/turkish-bonds-advance-as-basci-sees-inflation-declining-in-may.html
Turkish bonds rose after the central
bank governor Erdem Basci said the inflation rate may fall to 8
percent in May from 11.1 percent in the previous month.  The  yield  on benchmark two-year debt fell nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 9.51 percent by the close
in Istanbul, erasing a rise in yields earlier in the week and
ending the period unchanged.  Inflation is expected to slow to about 8 percent in May
before accelerating again, Basci said in a speech in Istanbul
today. The bank may change  interest rates  such that its  monetary
policy  surprises investors and has an impact, he said. Inflation
in April was the highest in 3 1/2 years.  “Today we have understood the inflation figure will be
better than expected,” Murat Yardimci, head of trading at ING
Bank AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. ING’s estimate
for monthly inflation rate has been 0.9 percent, he said.  The Dollar Index, which measures the U.S. currency against
the euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Swedish krona and Swiss
franc, strengthened by less than 0.1 percent to 81.387, a record
15 consecutive days of gains. The U.S. currency appreciated
against the ruble and Asian currencies such as the South Korean
won, Chinese  yuan  and the Indian rupee.  The lira depreciated for the sixth day in the longest
streak of losses since November, lifting its weekly retreat to
2.7 percent, which is the biggest five-day slide since November.
The currency fell as much as 0.8 percent before Basci’s comments
and pared its loss to 0.2 percent at 1.8326 per dollar.  Monetary Policy  “The Turkish lira is not overvalued, on the contrary, it
is slightly below where it should be,” Basci said. “Despite
all the tightening measures, there is again a rise in loans in
the second quarter; it is necessary for us policy makers to
stick to tightening.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and fellow European leaders
will face pressure from their G-8 counterparts to do more after
speculation  Greece  will exit the euro wiped about $4 trillion
from global stock markets this month as the summit starts today
in the U.S.  “Greece and Eurozone are still very important concerns,”
Yardimci said.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered debt ratings at 16
Spanish banks, while  Fitch Ratings  cut Greece’s credit rating on
concern the country may not be able to sustain euro membership.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  