-- Vegas Train Loan Shouldn’t Be Solyndra Victim, Chief Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-05-18T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/vegas-train-loan-shouldn-t-be-solyndra-victim-chief-says.html
The U.S. high-speed rail line that’s
closest to construction deserves a $5.5 billion federal loan
that shouldn’t be held up by backlash from Solyndra LLC’s
bankruptcy,  DesertXpress Enterprises LLC  executives said.  Closely held DesertXpress is proposing a 190-mile link
between Victorville, California, and  Las Vegas  with trains
reaching 150 miles per hour.  It can break ground within months if the U.S.
Transportation Department approves its loan application made in
2010, Andrew Mack, chief operating officer of DesertXpress, said
in an interview in  Washington  yesterday.  “The project has been keeping its head down and developing
for eight years,” said Greg Gilbert, the company’s legal
counsel. “We hope we don’t get caught up in politics, because
we’ve focused on the business enterprise.”  The amount requested by DesertXpress is about 10 times
larger than the loan guarantees solar-panel maker Solyndra won
from the U.S. Energy Department before failing last year,
leading to congressional hearings and investigations. It would
also be more than three times the amount of all loans made under
the Federal Railroad Administration’s construction fund.  DesertXpress is majority owned by Las Vegas-based Marnell
Cos., which helped build casinos such as the Mirage and
Bellagio, both owned by  MGM Resorts International. (MGM)  The project
is supported by U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat.  “It is policy of the Federal Railroad Administration that
we do not comment on pending loan applications,” Kevin
Thompson, associate administrator for communications and
legislative affairs, said in an e-mail.  ‘Relatively Strong’  Agency Administrator Joseph Szabo, in an interview in
November, called the merits of DesertXpress’s application
“relatively strong.”  The lengthy scrutiny the loan has received from regulators
and Congress should shield the project from political criticism,
Mack said.  “This should demonstrate to the world we have a viable
project, which we think we have,” he said. “This is a public
infrastructure project. It’s going be open to the public and
serve a public purpose.”  The proposed railroad’s Victorville terminus is about 85
miles northeast of downtown  Los Angeles  by car. The company
plans to build 15,000 parking spaces to accommodate commuters
who would prefer to ride the last 80 minutes of a casino trip by
rail rather than risk hours more stuck in traffic, Mack said.  Few Loans Taken  The railroad administration has authority to lend $35
billion from a 14-year-old construction fund that has
distributed only about $1.6 billion since 1998, according to the
FRA’s website.  House Transportation  and Infrastructure Committee
Chairman  John Mica , a Florida Republican, criticized the agency
in February 2011, before Solyndra’s troubles became publicly
known, for not processing loans fast enough.  The rail developer is in talks with construction firms,
railroad suppliers and financiers, and will have $1.4 billion in
private financing and cash to cover the remaining costs to begin
operating trains, Mack said. He declined to name the firms,
saying talks were in progress and a final deal was dependent on
the government loan.  Developments in  California  should make the project more
attractive to regulators, Mack said. Plans are underway for a
52-mile transportation corridor between Victorville and
Palmdale, California, that would link DesertXpress to  Southern
California ’s commuter-rail network, he said.  Local governments in Los Angeles and San Bernadino counties
are close to an agreement that will increase speeds on the
commuter-rail network to accommodate high-speed trains, Mack
added. That could make DesertXpress a link if a future Western
high-speed rail network includes Utah and  Arizona , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  