-- Volcafe Sees Indonesian Coffee Harvest Peaking in June or July
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-18T13:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/volcafe-sees-indonesian-coffee-harvest-peaking-in-june-or-july.html
Harvesting of the 2012-13 coffee crop
in  Indonesia , the world’s third-biggest robusta grower, is
likely to peak in June or July, according to Volcafe, the coffee
unit of commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.  Growers there may harvest 10 million to 11 million bags of
coffee this season, up from 7 million to 8 million bags a year
earlier, the Indonesian Coffee and Cocoa Research Institute
estimated on March 7. Production will rise because the weather
was favorable during flowering, the institute said. A bag of
coffee usually weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  Coffee delivered to ports for export from Indonesia
“picked up this week,” the Winterthur, Switzerland-based
trader said in a report e-mailed to clients today. Port arrivals
totaled 6,000 metric tons to 6,500 tons, according to the
report.  Buyers of Indonesian coffee for June and July shipments are
paying a premium of $70 a ton to the price on the NYSE Liffe
exchange in  London , Volcafe data showed. That compares with a
premium of $90 a ton last week.  In  Vietnam , the biggest robusta producer, traders are
“edging up their crop estimates” and exports are 2 million
bags ahead last year’s level, according to the report. The
2011-12 season in Vietnam started in October.  “Domestic sales slowed down as farmers stocks become
thinner,” Volcafe said, adding that there is a “good
appetite” to buy from exporters and traders for nearby
shipments. Roasters are looking to buy coffee for later dates.  Vietnamese coffee for June and July shipment was trading at
a discount of 10 cents a pound to the exchange price, unchanged
from last week, data from the trader showed. Beans in the local
market climbed to 42,000 dong ($2.02) a kilogram (2.2 pounds)
yesterday, the highest since Oct. 18, according to  data  from the
Dak Lak Trade & Tourism Center on Bloomberg.  In  India ,  Asia ’s third-largest coffee grower, premiums are
rising on scarce supplies, Volcafe said.  “We are expecting some fierce internal battles for the
remaining coffee as domestic roasters will have to secure coffee
until new crop starts,” the trader said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 