-- Voting Law’s ‘Preclearance’ Provision Upheld on Appeal
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-18T21:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/voting-law-s-preclearance-provision-upheld-on-appeal.html
A Voting Rights Act provision
requiring federal approval of election-related changes in all or
part of 16 states with a history of racial discrimination was
upheld by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington .  The majority of a three-judge panel today rejected Shelby
County,  Alabama ’s constitutional challenge, saying the so-called
preclearance requirement under Section 5 of the 1965 law remains
necessary given that “overt racial discrimination persists” in
the covered jurisdictions.  “Several categories of evidence in the record support
Congress’s conclusion that intentional racial discrimination in
voting remains so serious and widespread in covered
jurisdictions that Section 5 preclearance is still needed,”
Judge David Tatel wrote.  The court’s decision affirms the right to vote as a core
constitutional right and Congress’s broad power to protect it,
said  David Gans , an attorney with the  Constitutional
Accountability Center  in Washington. The organization filed a
friend of the court brief in the case.  ‘Raising Concerns’  “We’re in the middle of an election cycle where lots of
people are raising concerns that restrictions are being placed
on the right to vote that prevent citizens from having access to
the ballot box,” Gans said.  Frank “Butch” Ellis, an attorney for Shelby County,
located near Birmingham, said the county will seek an appeal to
the U.S. Supreme Court. Ellis said he was pleased with the
dissent by Judge  Stephen Williams .  The preclearance requirement costs taxpayers money and is
“outdated” because it’s based on election results from 1964,
Ellis said. The law requires voting changes to be reviewed by
the Justice Department or the district court in Washington.  “We support the Voting Rights Act. We believe in it and
all of its substantive protections,” he said. “But this thing
of requiring preclearance of everything we do, every change, is
costing an awful lot of taxpayer money and an awful lot of
effort and time when it’s just not generally needed.”  Another Election  The NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund said the law’s
voter protection is still needed. The city of Calera in Shelby
County in 2006 enacted a “discriminatory” redistricting plan
that cost the city’s only African American councilman his seat,
according to the organization. Because of Section 5 of the
Voting Rights Act, the city was required to draw a
nondiscriminatory redistricting plan and conduct another
election, the group said.  Justice Department  spokeswoman Xochitl Hinojosa said in a
statement that the agency is pleased with the decision. The
Voting Rights Act is “a cornerstone” of civil rights law, and
the department will fight constitutional challenges to it, she
said.  “This provision continues to serve as a critical tool in
both blocking and deterring discriminatory voting practices,”
Hinojosa said.  The case is Shelby County, Alabama v. Holder, 11-5256, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  