-- Winnebago Says It Lacks Data About North Street Offer
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-05-18T15:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/winnebago-says-it-lacks-data-about-north-street-offer.html
Winnebago Industries Inc. (WGO) , the
biggest U.S. maker of motor homes, said it hasn’t received
“sufficient information” from North Street Capital LP about
the firm’s $321 million takeover bid.  Winnebago received Greenwich, Connecticut-based North
Street’s letter offering to acquire Winnebago for $11 a share in
cash, according to a company statement. The Forest City, Iowa-
based company said its management “has not received sufficient
information to deem the offer as credible.”  North Street previously bid $10.25 a share for Winnebago,
according to the letter sent to Chief Executive Officer Randy Potts. The $11-a-share bid is 29 percent higher than Winnegago’s
closing price of $8.51 yesterday.  “The board of directors of the company will review any
additional information relating to the North Street letter and
respond in due course,” Winnebago said today in the statement.  Winnebago climbed 9.3 percent to $9.30 at 11:16 a.m.  New
York  time and surged as much as 18 percent. The company reported
a net loss of $912,000, or 3 cents a share, for the fiscal
second quarter ended Feb. 25, according to a March 15  statement 
on its website.  Sales rose 23 percent to $131.6 million. The results
reflected “increased discounts and continued aggressive pricing
strategies,” according to the statement.  “We’re doing this as friendly as possible,” Alex
Mascioli, managing partner of North Street, said in a telephone
interview before Winnebago issued its statement. He declined, in
a separate interview, to identify what firms were underwriting
North Street’s bid. The underwriters will be named later today
and have been disclosed to Winnebago’s board, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  