-- Yahoo Said in Talks to Sell 20% of Alibaba for $7 Billion
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-18T20:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/yahoo-said-in-talks-to-sell-20-of-alibaba-for-7-billion.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  is in talks to sell about
20 percent of Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. for about $7 billion, a
deal that would cut by half its stake in  China ’s largest e-
commerce provider, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Alibaba Group, which has been trying to buy back the stake
in itself for more than a year, may announce a deal as soon as
next week, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private. Yahoo has come close to selling
the stake in the past and failed, and it may not reach an
agreement this time either, the person said.  Alibaba would gain more control over its future, including
a possible initial public offering, by reducing outside
ownership. It stepped up efforts to repurchase stock held by
Yahoo in September, when the U.S. company fired former chief
executive officer  Carol Bartz . Reducing the Alibaba stake
lessens Yahoo’s toehold in the world’s largest Internet market,
while also making a takeover of the U.S. company more likely,
said Jordan Rohan, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “For Yahoo shareholders, the sale and subsequent march
towards an IPO is a clear positive, as many questioned whether
Yahoo would be able to monetize its China assets at all,” Rohan
said in a research report yesterday. “In addition, the capital
required to take Yahoo private is reduced with each Alibaba
monetization event.”  Bartz Struggled  The companies struggled to make headway on negotiations
under Bartz, who failed to reach an agreement to let Alibaba
Group buy back shares in 2010. Yahoo acquired the stake in 2005
in exchange for $1 billion and ownership of Yahoo’s Chinese
unit.  Fissures became public by January 2010 when Alibaba Group
described as “reckless“ Yahoo’s support for Google Inc., which
tangled with Chinese authorities over the nation’s Web-
censorship rules.  In May of last year, Yahoo’s rift with Alibaba widened
after the Web portal said the Chinese company spun off its
online payment business without informing shareholders. Yahoo
said it wasn’t consulted about the transfer of the Alipay unit
to a company mostly owned by Jack Ma, chief executive officer of
Alibaba Group.  Yahoo had a board meeting yesterday to review the
transaction and will consider a dividend payment, AllThingsD
reported. AllThingsD said the deal is likely to value the
portion of Yahoo’s holdings at about $7 billion, or 20 percent
of Alibaba’s $35 billion enterprise valuation. After a potential
IPO, Yahoo could sell more of its stake, AllThingsD reported.  Active Discussions  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, and John Spelich, a
spokesman for Alibaba declined to comment.  Yahoo, which failed to keep pace with growth at Google and
Facebook Inc., is pursuing active discussions with the Chinese
company,  Scott Thompson , who succeeded Bartz before stepping
down this month, said in April.  Yahoo had also been in discussions about selling its stake
in Yahoo!  Japan  to Tokyo-based Softbank Corp., another person
said. Those talks have gone cold over price and have not
resumed, said the person.  Yahoo considered a deal with Alibaba and Softbank that
would cut its stake in Alibaba to about 15 percent from about 40
percent, a person familiar with the matter said in December.  The shares of Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo rose 3.7
percent to $15.42 at the close in New York yesterday. The  shares 
have fallen 4.4 percent this year.  Yahoo, which spurned a $47.5 billion offer by Microsoft
Corp. in 2008, has a market value of $18.8 billion. By
comparison, Google is valued at $195.6 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net 
Brian Womack at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net 
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  