-- Myanmar’s Corruption Legacy Shadows Opening to Investors
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-05-18T01:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/myanmar-s-corruption-legacy-shadows-opening-to-investors.html
For Zaw Naing, 40, who sells
satellite imagery to Myanmar’s government, teeing off on the
golf course with any of the former generals running the country
is essential to sealing deals. Sometimes, he has to do more.  Naing, managing director of Credent Technology in Yangon,
says he puts aside a “small percentage” to buy goodwill and
“pay back not to individuals, but to the community, the society
or the organization.”  “We have to look at all the culture, all the history;
Those organizations want something back,” Naing said in a May 2
interview in his office. “How can you eradicate a culture
overnight?”  Such business practices pose a hurdle for U.S. companies
that may be looking to enter the Myanmar market after President
 Barack Obama  yesterday eased an American investment ban. The
U.S. continues to bar doing business with companies linked to
the military, which ran the country for five decades, and is
watching to see how political and economic reforms develop in
the nation also known as  Burma .  “We say to American business: Invest in Burma and do it
responsibly, be an agent of positive change,” Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in  Washington .  Perhaps more than anywhere else, golf in Myanmar separates
the elite from rest. A legacy from British colonial rule,
knowing how to wield a golf club and who to share a cart with is
key to doing business in the long-isolated country that ranks
among the poorest and most corrupt in the world.  ‘Personal Relationships’  “It’s all about personal relationships; they are still
very important,” said  Naing , who displays golfing trophies and
a framed certificate from  Michigan State University , where he
studied international development on a U.S.-funded Hubert H.
Humphrey Fellowship.  American companies in oil and gas, mining and financial
services -- now free to hunt for investment opportunities --will
need to bear in mind that personal relationships in Myanmar may
involve more than golf.  Only two nations --  Somalia  and  North Korea  -- are more
corrupt than Myanmar, according to Berlin-based  Transparency
International , which  ranks  183 countries based on surveys of
entrepreneurs and analysts on their perception of corruption.
“We do have such things: bribery, corruption, nepotism,
kickbacks,” said Naing.  Still, he said, the practice of “giving back” is
something of a way of life. “Maybe I am working with the
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation. I give back to the
ministry so that they know that Zaw Naing gives back, but not to
a person, not the minister,” he explained. “Sometimes the
government budgets are not enough to keep the offices alive to
have some paper for the copiers.”  Former Insiders  One of the biggest challenges to Myanmar’s year-old elected
civilian government is how to free commerce from the former
military-regime insiders who’ve had a lock on the country’s
resources, such as oil, timber and gems.  President  Thein Sein , 67, the general-turned-civilian who
began opening Myanmar to the West after he took office 14 months
ago, is aware of the corruption that’s blighting efforts to
develop a country that aspires to be the next Asian Tiger.
Still, his economic team sees no quick fixes.  “We don’t expect this problem can be eradicated
immediately, but we try our best to control, to medicate this
problem,” his top political adviser, Ko Ko Hlaing, said in a
May 2 interview in Yangon.  No Water, No Electricity  Myanmar is drawing interest as a resource-rich country with
enormous potential now that it is embracing reform. The U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the US-ASEAN Business Council, and the
 National Foreign Trade Council  applauded the Obama
administration’s action.  “Myanmar’s leadership has made it clear that it welcomes
American investment, and in many ways sees it as preferable to
that of some of our competitors” because of U.S. standards for
corporate responsibility, the three groups said in a statement
yesterday.  In 1962, the start of military rule, Myanmar “was the
single richest country in  Asia ,” investor  Jim Rogers , the
chairman of Rogers Holdings, said at a conference in Singapore
Feb. 22. “Now it’s the poorest because it’s been so badly
managed in the past 50 years. But they are changing that now.”  “If I could put all of my money into Myanmar, I would,”
said Rogers, who predicted a global commodities rally in 1999.  For overseas businessmen trying to establish a presence in
Myanmar, potential bribery isn’t the only obstacle. Investors
are required by the government to bring at  least $500,000 , half
of it in cash and the rest in assets, according to  Thura Swiss
Ltd. , a Myanmar-based consultancy.  ‘Quite Challenging’  The lack of modern infrastructure and financial systems
also present a barrier. The U.S. move to ease sanctions was also
criticized by New York-based Human Rights Watch, citing the
prevalence of cronyism and ethnic strife.  “In a country such as Myanmar, with little or no
infrastructure, everything from water to electricity is an issue
in terms of just setting up shop,” said Howard Kuan, 29, from
 Hong Kong , the manager of a Chinese garment factory on the
outskirts of Yangon. “Everything is quite challenging.”  Only about a quarter of the population has access to
electricity, the  Asian Development Bank  said in a report last
month. One in 30 people has a mobile phone, and less than 1
percent of the population has an Internet connection, Tokyo-
based  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  said in a March 14 report.  Fresh Paint  The fresh coat of white paint on Kuan’s new clothing
factory is a contrast to the poverty just outside the gates,
where stray dogs sniff garbage along muddy roads with open
sewers and a line of aspiring workers stares up at a board with
job postings. They peek inside at rows of sewing machines in a
well-aired room.  To operate his machines, Kuan had to get generators to cope
with power outages that can last six hours a day. He also had to
find a way to pump and filter water. When he arrived to face all
these problems, he couldn’t make calls or send an e-mail.  “When we first came, we couldn’t buy SIM cards for cell
phones,” he said in a May 2 interview. “As people here without
any friends, at first we were left without communication with
the outside world. Going online was even more impossible.”  Making the right friends was necessary to navigate a series
of unwritten rules in a country with no code of law.  Over a cigarette and a can of Coke, Kuan recalled that two
weeks after the factory opened, some “local government types
started knocking on doors” and asked him for licenses that
neither he nor his lawyer, a former judge, thought were needed.
He paid them what they asked to obtain the paper document.  ‘No Receipt’  “Now whether they took that money we don’t know, but the
bottom line is as business people, these are expenditures we
have to make,” Kuan said. “And there really is no receipt or
anything official. We are here to stay, so we pay the sums just
to make sure that what is due is due, and that in the end we are
not going to be illegal here.”  To reward Myanmar for beginning the transition from
dictatorship toward democracy, the U.S. eased sanctions with
some reservations.  “We continue to have concerns, including remaining
political prisoners, ongoing conflict and serious human rights
abuses in ethnic areas,” the administration said in a
statement. The European Union has suspended most of its
sanctions for a year.  Still, for the Burmese it’s the Americans that count.  Even days before the U.S. action, Zaw Naing says his phone
was ringing off the hook with American companies such as  GeoEye
Inc. (GEOY) , a Herndon, Virginia-based satellite-image provider,
interested in partnering with him.  “American sanctions are very important, very
influential,” he said. “I have been telling Americans since
2008 that this government is serious about change. You believe
me?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  