-- Mytrah Energy’s Wind Turbine Capacity Falls Short of Target
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-18T13:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/mytrah-energy-s-wind-turbine-capacity-falls-short-of-target.html
Mytrah Energy Ltd. (MYT)  boosted its
installed wind-turbine capacity in India to 224 megawatts,
falling short of a goal to build 500 megawatts by June.  Mytrah plans to commission a further 113 megawatts in the
next 60 days, bringing the total to 337 megawatts in states
including Rajasthan, Gujarat and  Andhra Pradesh , the Hyderabad-
based company said today in a statement.  “There has been some slippage,” Gus Hochschild, a London-
based analyst at Mirabaud Securities LLP, said in an e-mail to
clients.  Mytrah said  March 13  it planned to install 500 megawatts by
June after signing contracts with  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  and  Gamesa
Corporacion Tecnologica SA. (GAM)  The delay occurs as Mytrah speeds up
plans in some states at the expense of others to match
developments in the Indian wind market, Hochschild said. It
abandoned wind initiatives in  Tamil Nadu  because of slower
payments from the state electricity board, he said.  Mytrah also plans to hold development of its 79.9-megawatt
Burgula project in Andhra Pradesh until an expected increase in
tariffs for wind power in the state, according to the company.
Mytrah expects tariff increases in Rajasthan and said three of
its projects will gain from a rise in preferential rates for
wind in Maharashtra.  The Global Wind Energy Council said in an  April 2011 report 
that 13 state electricity regulatory commissions in the
country’s 28 states declared feed-in tariffs for wind. The
world’s third-largest wind market is seeking to boost renewables
to meet demand where 400 million people are without electricity.  Mytrah, backed by Henderson Global Investors Ltd., Capital
Research Global Investors and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , contracted Suzlon,
India’s biggest turbine maker, to build projects that are ready
to operate, or turnkey. In addition, it signed a turbine deal
with Gamesa for 2,000 megawatts through 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  