-- Zynga Trading Pauses Last Too Long Amid Facebook Difficulty
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-05-18T17:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-18/zynga-shares-fail-to-resume-following-volatility-circuit-breaker.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  shares, paused for a
volatility circuit breaker that was supposed to last five
minutes, failed to resume until about 50 minutes later. Another
halt also lasted more than an hour.  The stock was paused at 11:37 a.m. New York time after
dropping as much as 14 percent from yesterday’s close to $7.08.
The circuit breaker is triggered when a company rises or falls
10 percent within five minutes. It resumed at 12:27 p.m. and was
halted again two minutes later because of volatility. Trades
commenced at 1:35 p.m.  The delays happened as Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., its listing
venue, said it was having trouble delivering trade executions
from  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering. Customers of
Fidessa Group Plc, which helps asset managers track
transactions, weren’t receiving confirmation of trades from
 Nasdaq , according to a statement.  “It’s very odd,” Sam Ginzburg, a partner and head of
capital markets at First New York Securities LLC, a New York-
based proprietary trading firm, said in a phone interview about
the delay in restarting Zynga. “Nasdaq is dealing with its own
thing in terms of getting executions back to the Facebook
people.”  Dani Dudeck, a Zynga spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Facebook shares were sold yesterday for $38 by
underwriters. The stock ranged between $45 and $38 today. Other
Internet companies slumped.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  slipped 2.6 percent
to $102.28 while  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  dropped 5.4 percent to $11.75.  The decline in Internet stocks shows “the fizzle of the
hype,” Channing Smith, who helps oversee about $1.1 billion at
Capital Advisors in Tulsa, Oklahoma, said in a phone interview.
“The expectation is that Facebook will come out and you will
see a big rise in the share price. The earlier reaction is
disappointing. Investors are looking at other names and say
maybe there isn’t any much interest in this area than we
thought.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  