-- Accident Investigations Stalled Since Shutdown: NTSB
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-10-11T18:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/accident-investigations-stalled-since-shutdown-ntsb.html
U.S. crash investigators have been
unable to probe 13 accidents since the government partially shut
down, the head of the  National Transportation Safety Board  said.  They include a fatal bus collision in  Tennessee , a crude
oil pipeline spill in  North Dakota  and the crash of a U.S. drug
interdiction plane in Colombia that killed four people, NTSB
Chairman  Deborah Hersman  told a Senate hearing today. About
1,500 investigations in all have been put on hold, Hersman said.  “I urge you to take action to permit the NTSB to resume
its critical safety mission,” Hersman said in written testimony
for the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee.  The accident investigation agency, which makes safety
recommendations to regulators, has sent all but 22 of its 405
employees home since U.S. lawmakers failed to approve spending
for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1.  The NTSB has also had to postpone two hearings, including
one planned for next month into the crash of an  Asiana Airlines
Inc. (020560)  plane attempting to land July 6 in  San Francisco , Hersman
said. The crash killed three passengers and injured dozens as
the plane broke apart and slid to a stop.  Hersman said she’s been most frustrated by having tell
investigators who’ve been asking to go to accident sites that
they can’t. Over the long term, the agency may fail to find
safety risks, she said.  “If we don’t go, we don’t know,” she said.  Fishing Gone  Many U.S. government services have been shuttered for more
than a week and the country is six days away from running out of
cash to pay all of its debts.  Congressional Republicans  are at
odds with Democrats and President  Barack Obama ’s administration
over funding the government and raising the ceiling on U.S.
borrowing.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia Democrat who is
chairman of the commerce committee, released a report today
before the hearing on the economic impacts of the shutdown.  Communities near closed national parks are losing as much
as $30 million a day, the development of a replacement air-traffic control system is on hold and king-crab fishing in
Alaska is at risk without the government running, according to
the report.  Rockefeller said the shutdown was threatening the economy’s
recovery from the downturn that began in 2008, and criticized
Republicans.  “They have recklessly been putting our economy at risk of
a relapse,” he said in an opening statement. “This shutdown is
doing enormous harm to our country and it is totally
avoidable.”  Aerospace Companies  Senator  Roger Wicker , a Mississippi Republican, said both
sides must be willing to compromise before an agreement can be
reached. Wicker was the only Republican to attend the hearing.  “In order to end the shutdown, both sides need to work
together,” Wicker said. “Perhaps we are getting closer to a
negotiating process.”  Smaller suppliers in the  aerospace industry  are suffering
more than more established companies, said Marion Blakey,
president and chief executive officer of the Aerospace
Industries Association, an Arlington, Virginia-based trade
group.  “With limited  cash flow , they are at risk of shuttering
their operations in the event of an extended shutdown,” Blakey
told the committee.  Keith Colburn, an Alaska-based sea captain featured on the
Discovery Channel program “Deadliest Catch,” said the shutdown
would delay the Oct. 15 opening of fishing season.  “This is the first time in my 28 years of fishing that I
haven’t been in the Bering Sea in October getting ready to
fish,” he told the committee.  “I’m a small businessman in a big ocean with big bills. I
need to go fishing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  