-- Machines Gauging Your Star Potential Automate HR Hiring
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-10-11T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/machines-gauging-your-star-potential-automate-hr-hiring.html
They can drive cars, win Jeopardy
and find your soon-to-be favorite song. Machines are also
learning to decipher the most human qualities about you -- and
help businesses predict your potential to be their next star
employee.  A handful of technology companies from  Knack.it Corp . to
Evolv Inc. are doing just that, developing video games and
online questionnaires that measure personality attributes in a
job applicant. Based on patterns of how a company’s best
performers responded in these assessments, the software
estimates a candidate’s suitability to be everything from a
warehouse worker to an investment bank analyst.  Welcome to hiring in the age of big data, an ambition
marrying automation with analysis in the race to  better allocate
talent . Having people work at what they do best would make them
more productive, bolstering the economy’s capacity to expand,
according to Erik Brynjolfsson, a professor at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology  in Cambridge.  “People are our biggest resource, and right now a lot of
them are mismatched,” said Brynjolfsson, who specializes in
research on information technology and productivity and is an
advisor to Knack. “If you put the right kind of person in the
right task, it’s good for that person and it’s good for the
company.”  The advent of the Internet has been both a gift and a curse
to recruiters, who now can access a greater pool of potential
workers yet also get inundated with too many applications to
process. The problem has been a lack of tools to quickly,
cheaply and accurately sort through that deluge in an economy
that has seen almost five years of above-7 percent unemployment.  Jobs Unfilled  Some 3.7 million U.S. jobs  went unfilled  in July, even
though more than 11 million Americans were  looking for work ,
according to Labor Department figures.  “You have this enormous pool of people that’s being missed
because of the way the entire industry goes after the same kinds
of people, asking, did you go to Stanford, did you work at this
company?” said Erik Juhl, head of talent at Vungle Inc., a San
Francisco-based video advertising startup, and formerly a
recruiter at Google Inc. and LinkedIn Corp. “You miss what
you’re looking for, which is -- what is this person going to
bring to the table?”  Online Game  To aid that search, Juhl this month will begin using an
online  video game  designed to track, record and analyze every
millisecond of its players’ behavior. Developed by Knack in  Palo
Alto ,  California , Wasabi Waiter places job-seekers in the shoes
of a sushi server who must identify the mood of his cartoon
customers and bring them the dish labeled with the matching
emotion. On a running clock, they must also clear empty dishes
into the sink while tending to new customers who take a seat at
the bar.  Using about a megabyte of data per candidate, Knack’s
software measures a variety of attributes shown in academic
studies to relate to job performance, including
conscientiousness and the capacity to recognize others’
emotions. Knack’s clients will also see a score estimating each
applicant’s likelihood of being a high performer.  In a study last year, Knack piloted its technology with
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s GameChanger, a program that invests in
entrepreneurs to develop their ideas into new products for the
energy sector. Hans Haringa, an executive at GameChanger, wanted
to see if Knack’s video games could predict who pitched the
ideas that turned out to be successful.  Innovative Talents  “Knack built themselves a calibrated model with the
capacity to predict innovative talents,” said Haringa, who
added that GameChanger is considering adding Knack’s tool to
select the right people in whom to invest. “It’s early days for
the technology but it clearly has upside and potential.”  Home to a more widely-used human resources machine is
 Evolv , which specializes at evaluating candidates for hourly
positions at companies including  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  and  Harte-Hanks
Inc. (HHS)  The San Francisco-based company administers an online
questionnaire to applicants on behalf of its clients. A computer
model translates those results into a traffic light for hiring
managers so they can decide whom to interview: green for high-potential, yellow for medium-potential and red for risky.  Evolv’s advantage is the oceans of information it has
tracked on the survey results and those candidates’ real-life
outcomes if they got hired: how well they performed on the job
and how long they ended up staying with the company. In the way
that years of experience informs a veteran recruiter, terabytes
of data teach Evolv’s algorithms to see who has the makings of a
good hire.  Debunked Assumptions  The patterns gleaned since the company’s founding in 2007
have debunked many of the common assumptions held by recruiters,
Evolv executives say. For example, a history of job-hopping or
long bouts of unemployment has little relationship with how long
the candidate will stay at his or her next job, according to
Evolv’s  analysis  of call center agents.  “As human beings, we’re actually pretty bad at evaluating
other human beings,” said David Ostberg, vice president of
workforce science at Evolv. “We’re making sure people are using
the right data, instead of the traditional methods that were
previously thought to be valid but big data’s showing are not.”  Cognitive Abilities  New York-based  ConnectCubed  has also developed software to
determine the personality and cognitive abilities of job
applicants that, at its largest clients, is tailored for that
specific company. ConnectCubed has existing workers at those
businesses complete its video games and questionnaires so the
behavioral profiles of the star employees serve as a benchmark
for who managers should hire in the future.  “When new people apply, you can say, wow this guy has all
the makings of our top salesmen,” said Michael Tanenbaum, chief
executive officer and co-founder of the service. “These are
things that are impossible to measure from a resume, especially
with educational backgrounds that are often more determined by
socioeconomic status than your innate ability.”  To be sure, Knack and ConnectCubed, which say they can
predict high-performers across a broad set of workers, haven’t
been around for long enough to track, over time, whether their
technologies actually are improving the quality of the employees
their clients hire or those businesses’ bottom line.  “My concern is, with only a 9.5-minute sample of behavior,
is that really enough?” said Frederick Morgeson, a professor of
management specializing in personnel psychology at  Michigan
State University  in East Lansing, referring to Knacks’ video
game assessment. “Are we sampling enough of those behaviors to
be confident that we’re capturing what the person might do in
the totality of their complex behavior?”  Amassed Evidence  Evolv on the other hand has amassed evidence of results for
its clients.  San Antonio , Texas-based direct  marketing company 
Harte-Hanks  found  call center agents selected by Evolv’s
software had a 35 percent lower 30-day attrition rate, reported
29 percent fewer hours of missed work in the first six months
and handled calls 15 percent more quickly than those hired
through the company’s existing recruiting services provider at
the time.  Still that success may be harder to achieve among higher-skilled professionals. There’s a reason Evolv has kept its focus
on evaluating hourly workers, Chief Executive Officer Max Simkoff said.  For “our largest telco customers, a single percentage-point increase in any customer experience metric they track,
they can correlate to additional percentage points in subscriber
base,” said Simkoff, who is also co-founder of the company.
“The performance data is not there yet” for employees engaging
in higher-level tasks, he said.  Guessing Game  Juhl at Vungle says the algorithms will never replace the
age-old interview altogether, no matter how accurate Knack’s
predictions are. The goal is to experiment with a variety of
tools that can offer more information about each candidate and
make the recruiting process less of a guessing game, he said.  “As we grow in scale, we’re trying to put in the
foundation now so we can measure it down the line,” he said.
“What I would like for it is to gain substantial weight in the
process -- as valued as the opinion of the most senior members
of the team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  