-- Activision Gains Autonomy From Vivendi as Deal Completes
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-10-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/activision-buyback-of-most-of-stake-held-by-vivendi.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and a group
led by Chief Executive Officer Bobby Kotick completed their $8.2
billion buyout of most of the stake held by  Vivendi SA (VIV) , after a
court cleared the final hurdle to the deal.  The video game publisher, based in Santa Monica,
 California , bought back $5.83 billion of stock from Paris-based
Vivendi, and Kotick and his partners paid $2.34 billion,
according to a statement yesterday.  Activision, independent after five years as a unit of
Vivendi, gains the freedom to consider acquisitions and growth
opportunities without the uncertainty of a struggling parent.
The buyout came a day after the Delaware Supreme Court said a
shareholder vote on the transaction wasn’t required.  “It reduces the uncertainty about our business and allows
us to get back to focusing on making great games,” Kotick said
in a phone interview.  On Oct. 13, Activision begins selling the latest
installment of “Skylanders,” a game he called “one of the
best products we’ve ever created.” “Skylanders,” which
combines action figures with online play, competes with Walt
Disney Co.’s “Disney Infinity,” which went on sale in August.  Activision, also the maker of the “Call of Duty” games,
will be able to pursue expansion opportunities in  China  and
other markets, Kotick said. The buyout might have fallen apart
if not completed by a Dec. 15 expiration of financing
arrangements that the company had negotiated, he said.  Investor Group  Kotick and his partners, who include co-Chairman Brian Kelly, Chinese video-game publisher  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , Davis
Advisors and Leonard Green & Partners, will hold about a 25
percent stake and be the largest investor group. Vivendi’s stake
falls to about 12 percent, according to the statement.  A Delaware Chancery Court judge had blocked the purchase of
Vivendi’s stock after a shareholder sued, arguing the
transaction would allow Kotick’s group to exercise control over
the company without approval by a majority vote of investors
outside Vivendi.  “We expect immediate shareholder benefits in the form of
earnings-per-share accretion and strategic and operational
independence,” Kotick said in the statement.  Activision rose 0.2 percent to $17.08 yesterday at the  New
York  close. The shares have gained 61 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  