-- African Infrastructure Boom to Boost Syndicated-Loan Growth
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-10-11T14:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/african-infrastructure-boom-to-boost-syndicated-loan-growth-1-.html
Sub-Saharan  Africa ’s infrastructure
boom will probably draw increased interest from investment banks
and commercial lenders, underpinning growth in syndicated loans,
the  Loan Market Association  said.  The annual amount of credit in the region organized by
groups of lenders grew to $17.7 billion last year from $11.2
billion in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Syndicated loans total $19.6 billion in the year to date, the
data show.  African nations are spending $45 billion annually upgrading
roads, ports, electricity plants and other infrastructure,
according to the  African Development Bank . The continent needs
to spend $93 billion a year help accelerate economic growth,
leaving a financing gap of about $50 billion, the Tunis-based
lender said in May.  “There is a lot of requirement for infrastructure
investment,” Clare Dawson, managing director of the London-based LMA, said in an interview in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi.
“Many international banks see that there are very good
opportunities for investing particularly in infrastructure
projects.”  Inadequate infrastructure reduces economic growth across
the continent by at least 2 percentage points a year and lowers
the productivity of companies by as much as 40 percent, or $40
billion in lost output annually, according to the bank.  Middle Class  International lenders’ interest in the continent is also
being driven by a growing population and expanding consumer
base, Dawson said.  Africa’s middle class is estimated at 34 percent of the
continent’s population, or 350 million people, according to the
African Development Bank. The middle class has been defined as
individuals with annual income exceeding $3,900.  African industries receiving the most funding include
telecommunications and commodities such as cocoa, oil and gas,
Dawson said. “Some of the African banks are also becoming more
active on a regional basis rather than just in their own
countries,” she said.  Banks including  United Bank for Africa Plc  and  Ecobank
Transnational Inc. (ETI)  of Nigeria,  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  of South
Africa and Union Gabonaise de Banque SA of Gabon are among
African lenders that have participated in syndicated loans this
year, according to Bloomberg data.  Accelerating Growth  Over the next decade, seven out of the 10 fastest growing
economies will be African nations, led by Ethiopia, Mozambique
and  Tanzania , with an average growth rate of 7 percent per
annum, while the continent’s population is forecast to reach 1.4
billion by 2025, according to the LMA.  As African companies expand, their demand for syndicated
loans is expected to increase as businesses seek larger amounts
of capital that may not be provided by a single lender, Dawson
said.  Pricing for loans is already declining as more lenders
enter the market, according to the Loan Market Association. This
year,  Ghana ’s Cocoa Board reported a drop in margin on its
syndicated loan to 70 basis points above Libor from 175 basis
points in 2012, it said. The regulator last month signed a $1.2
billion syndicated loan for crop purchases.  In July  Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. (APN) , South Africa’s
largest drugmaker, said  Bank of America Corp.  and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. are coordinating raising $2 billion of loans to
finance acquisition deals it agreed to this year with companies
including Merck & Co. and  Nestle SA. (NESN)  Nigeria’s Dangote Group is
also in the process of arranging a $3.5 billion syndicated loan
from nine Nigerian lenders and four international banks
including Standard Bank, Rand Merchant Bank and Absa Group Ltd.  Africa, Mideast  The LMA is currently promoting the standardization of
documentation across Europe, Middle East and Africa to speed up
the time taken to process loan applications, Dawson said.  Out of its membership of more than 500 banks and law firms,
about 16 are from Africa. The LMA has conducted a recruitment
drive in southern Africa and East Africa and plans to continue
the exercise in West Africa next year, Dawson said.  Kenya , the world’s biggest exporter of black tea, is the
leading market for local-currency loan syndication in East
Africa, while Zambia, Africa’s biggest copper producer is the
largest market for loans in Central Africa, according to the
LMA. The Southern Africa market is dominated by South Africa and
 Angola , with the bulk of transactions in West Africa going to
Nigeria and Ghana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  