-- Thai Bonds Head for Weekly Drop as Foreign Funds Trim Holdings
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-10-11T02:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/thai-bonds-head-for-weekly-drop-as-foreign-funds-trim-holdings.html
Thailand ’s government bonds and the
baht were set for weekly drops as foreigners cut holdings of the
nation’s assets on concern regional economic growth is slowing.  The World Bank lowered its expansion forecast for East
Asia’s developing nations this year to 7.1 percent from an April
prediction of 7.8 percent, the Washington-based lender said Oct.
7. Global funds  sold  $25 million more Thai bonds and equities
than they purchased in the first four days of this week,
official data show.  The yield on the 3.625 percent notes due June 2023 rose
five basis points this week to 3.9 percent as of 9:04 a.m. in
Bangkok, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield was little
changed today and has fallen three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, this month.  “The assessment about  emerging markets  isn’t so positive
at the moment with sluggish economic outlooks,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a Bangkok-based foreign-exchange trader at Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp. “We don’t see much money flowing in.”  Asian stocks rose the most in three weeks today on
speculation U.S. lawmakers will be able to come to an agreement
to raise the country’s debt limit. House Republicans proposed a
short-term increase in the debt ceiling that would reduce
prospects for a default. The plan would push the lapse of U.S.
borrowing authority to Nov. 22 from Oct. 17.  The baht declined 0.1 percent this week to 31.315 per
dollar and rose 0.3 percent today. One-month implied volatility,
a measure of expected swings in the exchange rate used to price
options, dropped 35 basis points from a week ago and 12 basis
points today to 7.08 percent.  “Optimism the U.S. will reach agreement on the debt
ceiling issue is slightly improving sentiment today,”
Sumitomo’s Hasegawa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  