-- Airbus to Dassault See Plane Sales Stall in U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k ,   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-10-11T18:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/airbus-to-dassault-see-plane-sales-stall-in-u-s-shutdown.html
Eni SPA (ENI) , Italy’s biggest energy
company, has a group of 10 Houston business people waiting to
buy its  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  Falcon 2000 jet. What it doesn’t
have is the U.S. paperwork needed to sell the plane.  The partial government shutdown entering its 11th day today
is keeping the purchasers from closing on a deal with Rome-based
Eni valued at about $5 million, said Bob Nygren, a founder of
aircraft broker AeroSmith Penny II LLC in Houston. Eni has
stashed the twin-engine Falcon at a suburban Dallas airport.  Executive jets aren’t the only ones being sidelined.
Hundreds of sales from vendors as varied as Airbus SAS and
individuals are stalled as the  Federal Aviation Administration ’s
aircraft-registration office remains shuttered. Titles for $2.5
billion of jetliners, small planes and helicopters may be in
limbo if the shutdown runs into next week.  “This is a mess,” said William King, a vice president at
Cirrus Aircraft Corp., which installs parachutes on its planes
so they float to the ground in an engine failure. “Even if they
settle this out quickly in the next 10 days, we could still be
in a position of not meeting our delivery numbers by Jan. 1.”  The snags are part of the economic ripple effects from the
first government shutdown in 17 years. Five U.S. senators urged
FAA Administrator Michael Huerta in a letter this week to reopen
the Oklahoma City-based registry because it’s “inflicting
unnecessary hardship on aviation industries.”  Safety Only  None of the about 800 officials now being recalled to
ensure air safety will be assigned to the registry, according to
the FAA. During the shutdown, U.S. law prohibits the FAA from
running the registry and other operations that aren’t protecting
“life and property,” the agency said in a statement this week.  Title work for planes of all sizes flows through the
office, which is tucked within a sprawling FAA campus and
usually operates “locked down like Fort Knox,” said Clay
Healey, owner of AIC Title Service LLC in  Oklahoma City ,
referring to the U.S. gold reserves stored in  Kentucky .  Seated at rows of desks in a documents room, title-company
workers download aircraft information unavailable outside the
registry’s walls, Healey said in an interview. A bank-teller-type window allows users to slide in paperwork for time-stamping
by an FAA official, he said.  Without the FAA’s permission, $514 million of Europe-built
jets from Airbus can’t be brought into the U.S. for carriers
including US Airways Group Inc. and  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American
Airlines .  ‘Very Unfortunate’  “This is a very unfortunate situation,” Maryanne Greczyn,
a U.S. spokeswoman for Toulouse, France-based Airbus, said by e-mail. “We are hopeful for a rapid-as-possible solution.”  More than 30 companies, including Airbus, Boeing Co. and
units of  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Bank of America Corp., sent a
letter today to Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx,
requesting the registry be reopened on security concerns. The
FAA, among other things, provides the  Transportation Security
Administration  and law enforcement agencies with aircraft-related information, they said in the letter.  The companies also said they’re concerned that the increase
in an already large backlog for new registration applications,
combined with the expiration of temporary authorizations, will
cause “enormous delivery delays.”  Planes in Limbo  At least two planes from Canada’s  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  with a
list value of about $75 million, one of them for  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL) , are also in limbo, and Brazil’s  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  said this week
that its U.S. regional-jet deliveries may be affected “in the
coming weeks” if FAA offices stay shuttered.  Boeing has been making deliveries to U.S. customers that
submitted registry paperwork before the shutdown and to
international airlines that list planes with regulators in their
home markets, said Doug Alder, a spokesman for the Chicago-based
planemaker. U.S. carriers also can take planes using temporary
registration forms, he said.  Cirrus, based in Duluth,  Minnesota , had to put delivery on
hold this week for one of its single-engine planes because of
the shutdown, executive King said in an interview.  Used Falcon  Eni is selling its used Falcon to upgrade to a G550 from
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream, according to Nygren, the
Houston-based aircraft broker. He declined to identify his buyer
group, and Eni didn’t respond to telephone and e-mailed requests
for comment about the sale.  Dassault has delayed handing over three new jets completed
at its facility in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , said Andrew Ponzoni, a
spokesman. If the shutdown drags on more than two weeks, the
Paris-based planemaker won’t have authorization to fly in planes
from  France  to be finished in the U.S., he said, without
identifying the buyers. Falcon operators include NetJets, the
aviation business of  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  “The fourth quarter is traditionally our busiest time of
year for Falcon completions and deliveries,” Ponzoni said in an
e-mailed response to questions, in which he declined to identify
the planes’ customers. “The longer the FAA Registry Office
remains closed, the deeper the impact will be on our business.”  General Aviation  The Washington-based General Aviation Manufacturers
Association, which represents makers of small aircraft and their
suppliers, estimated that a shutdown dragging into next week
would put $1.9 billion of light planes and helicopters on hold.  The FAA “intensely” regulates the aircraft industry for
safety reasons, resulting in companies and airplane operators
requiring approval on everything from maintenance to medical
certificates for pilots, said Ed Bolen, president of the
Washington-based National Business Aviation Association.  “The effects of this shutdown are growing exponentially,”
Bolen said.  For now, employees at Healey’s AIC Title in Oklahoma City
are keeping busy cleaning up and fine-tuning their computer
system. The company normally processes paperwork on 75 planes a
day, Healey said. On Oct. 9, it handled five, all from deals in
the works before the shutdown.  “Transactions have stopped,” Healey said. “It’s a real
problem.”  Also stuck is the Falcon being sold by Italy’s Eni. The
plane is outside Dallas at Addison Airport, a facility bustling
with corporate and private aircraft -- it’s billed by the town
of Addison as the country’s third-busiest general-aviation
airport -- and located near the headquarters of  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)   About $1 million of refurbishing work on the Falcon was set
to begin this week, after being scheduled months ago because the
job was so big, Nygren said. Workers at a Bethany, Oklahoma,
repair facility were left idle waiting for the plane, he said.  “We need to get registration first and we’re on hold
because of that,” Nygren said. “It’s stupid. This is a simple
title transfer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  