-- Alberta Appeals for China Investment After Rules Curb Oil Deals
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-10-11T15:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/alberta-appeals-for-china-investment-after-rules-curb-oil-deals.html
Alberta’s energy minister will urge
Asian firms to invest in Canada’s largest oil-producing province
after restrictions imposed by the federal government on foreign
state-owned firms helped curb deals.  Ken Hughes will seek to clarify Canada’s foreign-takeover
rules in meetings with energy companies, including  China 
National Petroleum Corp., on a 10-day trip to the region
starting today, he said. In announcing changes in December,
Prime Minister Stephen Harper said foreign state-owned companies
would be allowed to buy oil-sands businesses only in
“exceptional circumstances.”  “There’s been a knock-on quieting of investment,” across
the province, Hughes said in a phone interview yesterday from
Calgary, emphasizing the rules only affect the oil sands. “The
message is that Alberta is one of the most predictable,
reliable, mature investment locations in the world.”  Harper is asserting control over the nation’s resources
after about $51 billion in investments by state-owned firms in
the Canadian oil and gas industry over the last seven years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Deals in the industry
have fallen to $8.4 billion in the first nine months of this
year in  Canada , down 79 percent from $40.5 billion in mergers
and acquisitions over the same period last year.  Alberta, home to the world’s third-largest crude reserves
in the oil sands, requires outside capital and labor to develop
its resources, Hughes said. The new foreign-takeover rules came
as broader investment in the energy sector was falling due to
factors such as lower oil and gas prices, he said.  Asia Itinerary  Hughes plans to talk to a “long list” of representatives
from state-owned energy companies on his trip to  Korea ,  Japan 
and China, including CNPC, China’s largest energy company, China
Petrochemical Corp. and  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , he said. Companies Hughes
will meet with in Japan include Japan Oil, Gas and Metals
National Corp.,  Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. (1662)  and Idemitsu
Kosan Co., according to his  schedule  posted online.  The trip is the first by Hughes outside North America as
minister and follows a visit by Alberta Premier Alison Redford
to China last month. Speaking on a conference call from Shanghai
Sept. 17, Redford said she wants the Canadian government to
clarify under what conditions it would allow Chinese state-owned
companies to make investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  