-- Alibaba Group Leads $206 Million Investment in ShopRunner
-- B y   L u l u   C h e n   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-11T19:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/alibaba-american-express-investing-206-million-in-shoprunner.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. led a
$206 million investment in retail website ShopRunner, giving the
Chinese e-commerce company more of a foothold in the U.S.  Alibaba was joined by  American Express Co. (AXP)  in the funding
round, according to ShopRunner, which is run by former  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO)  Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson . The startup’s
backers also  include  Kynetic.  “Alibaba and American Express recognize ShopRunner as a
disruptive model which will have a significant role in the U.S.
e-commerce market,” Thompson said in a statement. “This
funding will help accelerate ShopRunner’s growth and enable us
to continue to build great online shopping experiences for our
members.”  The investment shows Alibaba is willing to place bets
against  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  on the Seattle-based company’s home
turf. Alibaba also is considering a U.S. initial public offering
after talks with Hong Kong’s exchange broke down, a person
familiar with the matter said last month.  Alibaba, founded by former English teacher Jack Ma, has
been valued by investment banks at as much as $120 billion. That
would put it in the same range as Facebook Inc. The only
Internet companies that rank higher are Google Inc. and Amazon.  The American Express investment was a “small, minority
stake” in ShopRunner, according to Elizabeth Crosta, a
spokeswoman for the New York-based company.  ShopRunner is a members-only site that aggregates offers
from retail partners, including Toys “R” Us Inc. and Brooks
Brothers Inc. The San Mateo, California-based company also
provides free two-day shipping.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  