-- Alibaba Said to Plan IPO for 2014 as Company Mulls U.S. Listing
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2013-10-11T04:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/alibaba-said-to-plan-ipo-for-2014-as-company-mulls-u-s-listing.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
largest e-commerce company, will go public in 2014 after talks
with  Hong Kong ’s exchange on a proposed corporate governance
structure fell apart, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Alibaba is unlikely to file for an IPO before year-end,
though such a move is still possible, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the deliberations are private. The
company is moving toward a U.S. sale after talks with Hong
Kong’s  exchange  broke down, a person familiar with the matter
said last month.  By going public next year, the Hangzhou, China-based
company can see how Twitter Inc., the biggest Internet IPO since
Facebook Inc.’s $16 billion sale last year, fares after listing
before pushing ahead with its own offering.  Investment banks have valued Alibaba, founded by former
English teacher Jack Ma, at as much as $120 billion, which would
make it the third-biggest  Internet company  behind Google Inc.
and Amazon.com Inc. based on market capitalization, and almost
tied with Facebook’s $119.5 billion. Alibaba has decided not to
list in Hong Kong, Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Lu told
Reuters this week.  John Spelich, a spokesman for Alibaba, said the company has
no timetable for an IPO, hasn’t hired investment bankers and
hasn’t made a decision about where to go public. The company had
asked Hong Kong’s  exchange  to allow a partnership of executives
and shareholders to nominate the majority of board members,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Twitter is seeking to raise more than $1 billion and will
probably start a roadshow with bankers to promote the IPO in the
last week of October, according to people with knowledge of the
matter. The social-media service is leaning toward listing on
the  New York  Stock Exchange, one of the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  