-- Alitalia Gets $677 Million Lifeline to Pull Carrier From Brink
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-10-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/alitalia-s-board-approves-300-million-euro-capital-increase.html
Alitalia  SpA secured a 500 million-euro ($677 million) rescue package from shareholders, banks and
the state-owned postal service to avert a collapse of the
airline that’s losing more than 1.5 million euros a day.  Board members backed a plan to raise 300 million euros by
offering new shares to existing shareholders, the Rome-based
company said.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, the biggest investor with a
25 percent stake, said its representatives agreed to support the
measure to “enable continued operations at Alitalia.”  The intervention of the government to rescue the airline
for the second time in five years comes as Italy, the euro
region’s third-largest economy, struggles to emerge from the
worst economic slump since World War II and at the same time
meet the European Union budget-deficit target of 3 percent.  Italy’s postal company  Poste Italiane  SpA agreed to
contribute 75 million euros for Alitalia, while the country’s
two biggest banks --  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  --
will guarantee as much as 100 million euros for eventual unopted
rights in the capital increase. They will also provide a 100
million-euro bridge-to-equity loan, according to a release issue
late yesterday.  Alitalia shareholders will meet Oct. 14 to approve the
financing package. Air France-KLM still hasn’t committed to
participating in the capital increase, which needs backing from
its own board. The company has been reluctant to inject more
money into the ailing Italian carrier as Air France-KLM itself
undergoes a restructuring and job cuts.  State Intervention  Pairing Alitalia and Poste Italiane will offer business
links ranging from Poste’s charter company Mistral Air to cargo
services, the government said Oct. 10. Alitalia needs “renewal,
stable shareholders and a significant restructuring through a
new business plan. Poste’s entry is based on these conditions,”
Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s office said.  The state intervention, aimed at averting a collapse that
 Italy ’s civil aviation authority said could otherwise have
occurred in a matter of days, also drew criticism.  “Italian taxpayers shouldn’t be paying money to ensure
that Alitalia’s partners get out of this mess without too much
pain,” said Carlo Stagnaro, director of research at the Bruno Leoni research center in Turin. “The only economy of scale
between Poste and Alitalia is that a lot of layoff notices will
be posted.”  Second Rescue  Alitalia, which employs about 14,000 people, has been on
the brink of collapse before. The airline was put into
bankruptcy in 2008 after political and labor opposition thwarted
attempts to sell the company, which was almost 50 percent state-owned at the time. Former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  campaigned
then to keep the airline Italian after Air France withdrew its
acquisition offer.  An investor group assembled by Berlusconi, including Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA, Italy’s second-biggest bank, and  Atlantia SpA (ATL) , the
country’s top toll-road company, bought the carrier’s main
assets and combined them with smaller competitor Air One SpA
before selling a stake to Air France-KLM.  Alitalia’s resources have been depleted by mounting losses
and competition from low-cost carriers including  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ) 
Compounding Alitalia’s woes is a threat by energy company  Eni
SpA (ENI)  to halt fuel supplies tomorrow unless Alitalia shows it’s
able to continue operations.  Losses at the Rome-based carrier swelled to 294 million
euros in the first half and reserves fell to 128 million euros
from 159 million euros at the end of the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  