-- ALL Heads to Weekly Drop in Sao Paulo on Rumo Contract Dispute
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-10-11T16:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/all-heads-to-weekly-drop-in-sao-paulo-on-rumo-contract-dispute.html
ALL America Latina Logistica SA (ALLL3) ,
Latin America’s largest railroad operator, headed for its
biggest weekly decline since July as a dispute with a joint-venture partner spurred concern about the company’s growth.  The shares fell 6.6 percent this week to 8.44 reais as of
12:49 p.m. in Sao Paulo. The stock sank 6 percent in the past
two days. The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  was little changed today and is up 0.3
percent this week.  ALL started legal action that may terminate its contractual
relationships with Rumo Logistica SA, according to a regulatory
filing yesterday. Rumo, which is owned by Cosan SA Industria &
Comercio, agreed in 2009 to spend 1.2 billion reais ($549
million) to increase ALL’s railroad capacity from  Sao Paulo 
state’s interior to the Port of Santos, in return for
preferential transport rights.  The conflict with Rumo is creating “uncertainty regarding
the conclusion of the parallel rail line along the Campinas-Santos railway, which plays a key role in ALL’s transportation
volume growth,” Itau BBA analysts Giovana Araujo and Antonio
Barreto wrote in a research note. Termination of the contract
could compromise ALL’s cash flow generation, the analysts wrote.  ALL’s dispute with its joint-venture partner “is negative
for sentiment on the stock,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by
Stephen Trent wrote in a research note. “It increases
uncertainty at a time when the market is already concerned about
 Brazil ’s regulations.”  Rumo has taken action to uphold the contractual rights and
require ALL to comply with the 2009 accord, according to a
regulatory filing today.  Cosan fell 1.4 percent to 42.93 reais today and is down 1
percent this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  