-- AlphaMetrix Ousts CFO in Cash Crunch After Touting Due Diligence
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-10-12T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/alphametrix-terminates-cfo-as-cash-shortfall-hits-commodity-fund.html
AlphaMetrix Group LLC, marketed as a
haven for investors from scammers such as  Bernard Madoff , fired
its chief financial officer and said it faces a cash shortfall
at the corporate level.  The Chicago-based company’s businesses include a commodity
pool operator, AlphaMetrix LLC, that lets customers invest in
futures accounts managed by professional traders. Clients were
told in an Oct. 10 letter that liabilities at the parent company
“greatly exceed” liquid assets. The firm “has recently
encountered significant  cash flow  issues and is working to
strengthen its current financial position,” Aleks Kins, the
chief executive officer, said in the letter. Customer assets
remain on deposit with custodians and the firms where they were
invested, it said in another statement.  Asked in a 2010 interview with website Hedgeweek what
helped propel the company, Kins  said : “The Madoff scandal
pointed to the importance of independence, due diligence and
checks and balances. In the months after Madoff, our managed
account platform took on approximately $1 billion in customer
assets.”  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence after pleading guilty
to a fraud that wiped out $17 billion of customers’ principal.  AlphaMetrix Group, which also runs a unit that helps hedge
funds track investments and another that holds conferences, was
hired in November by the  National Futures Association  and  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  to shore up standards for monitoring client accounts.
That followed industry failures such as the collapse of MF
Global Holdings Ltd. in 2011 and Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
in 2012. In both cases, customer money went missing. AlphaMetrix
LLC had $146.6 million in client assets at the end of last year,
according to an Aug. 24 government  filing .  ‘Really Strict’  “They hold themselves out as a really strict firm in terms
of customer protection,” John Lothian, a futures industry
professional in  Chicago  who’s now CEO of newsletter publisher
John J. Lothian & Co., said in a phone interview yesterday.
AlphaMetrix vets the qualifications and performance of
professional futures traders, known as commodity trading
advisers, “yet they weren’t watching their own house,” said
Lothian, who has been a CTA for 10 years.  In the Hedgeweek  interview , Kins also highlighted the
formation of AlphaMetrix Financial Investigations, which  hired 
 David Fisher , a former top official at the Chicago office of the
U.S. Secret Service.  Deeper Investigations  “We saw a critical need to go beyond the typical database
search and provide our clients with a thorough investigation of
all funds and principals involved with our platform,” Kins said
in the Hedgeweek interview. “Having professionals like David,
who brings decades of  law enforcement  and financial fraud
investigations expertise, makes for much more meaningful
results.”  Conor Shea, a spokesman for AlphaMetrix, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails and calls placed after business hours
regarding the Kins interview.  Investors who put their money into commodity pool operators
may not be afforded the same protections as customers of futures
brokerages such as MF Global, Lothian said.  AlphaMetrix Group, which  topped  Crain’s Chicago Business’s
list of the city’s fastest-growing companies in 2011, said in
the Oct. 10 letter to investors that it hadn’t paid some of the
professional traders it uses even though money to do so was
removed from the commodity pools.  Pools like AlphaMetrix’s gather money from clients to
invest in futures and other derivatives.  Client Money  “At the parent level, AlphaMetrix Group LLC is working
within the  capital markets  to improve its short-term cash
flow,” AlphaMetrix Group said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “Investor assets remain under the operations of
AlphaMetrix LLC, which are on deposit with futures commission
merchants and cash custodians and traded by independent
investment advisers and commodity trading advisers in accordance
with the programs and strategies chosen by each investor.”  The company also disclosed that it fired CFO George Brown
and hired Arthur F. Bell Jr. & Associates LLC, an accounting
firm, to review its internal controls and recordkeeping.  Brown joined joined AlphaMetrix in March 2008, according to
a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  filing . Before that,
he was a consultant to Nature’s Best, which sells dietary
supplements, and the CFO of  Old London Foods Inc. , which makes
crackers, according to the document.  Tony Blair  The National Futures Association, an industry-funded
regulator that monitors compliance with U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission rules related to protection of customer money
and fraud, doesn’t comment on potential investigations, said
Karen Wuertz, a senior vice president at the Chicago-based
organization.  “There has not been an enforcement action taken” against
AlphaMetrix, Wuertz said in a phone interview yesterday.  Former British Prime Minister  Tony Blair  earned $300,000
plus expenses for speaking at the AlphaMetrix 2013 hedge fund
summit at the Fontainebleau resort in  Miami Beach ,  Florida , on
Jan. 31, Bloomberg Markets magazine reported earlier this year,
citing a person familiar with the matter. Blair’s spokeswoman
said at the time that the fee was lower.  The firm also  hosted  a performance last year by CeeLo
Green, a member of the band Gnarls Barkley and a judge on the
television program “The Voice.”  MF Global  MF Global customers, who initially had about $1.6 billion
of their money disappear, have been repaid about 89 percent of
what they are owed by one of the two bankruptcy trustees in that
case. A separate trustee for the wind-down of the brokerage unit
seeks to repay them 100 percent.  Russell Wasendorf Sr., founder and CEO of futures brokerage
Peregrine, was sentenced in January to 50 years in prison for
what prosecutors said was a theft of more than $215 million from
customers.  A subsidiary of AlphaMetrix was  hired  in November by the
NFA and CME Group, owner of the world’s largest futures
exchange, to provide a data aggregation system for monitoring
futures customers’ money on deposit at banks after Wasendorf
forged those records in the Peregrine case.  The NFA and CME Group always intended AlphaMetrix’s
involvement with the project to end once the data aggregation
component was complete, according to Wuertz and Laurie Bischel,
a CME Group spokeswoman. While AlphaMetrix is still involved,
the project is expected to be completed by the end of October,
Wuertz said, at which time CME Group and the NFA will operate
the system on their own.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  