-- Amplats Seen by Investec as Unable to Win Costs Battle
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-10-11T13:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/amplats-seen-by-investec-as-unable-to-win-costs-battle.html
The compromise  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  made on job cuts with the largest union at its
mines shows outside pressures prevent the metal’s biggest
producer from trimming costs to help profit, Investec Ltd. said.  Workers returned to the company’s mines in  South Africa 
today after it agreed with the Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union to halt the forced job losses for about 3,100
employees, ending a two-week strike.  The company known as Amplats proposed in January to cut as
many as 14,000 positions as it recorded a loss for 2012 amid
rising costs and lower platinum prices. The number of affected
jobs was reduced to 6,000 in May following objections from the
government and lowered further to about 4,000 in August.  Amplats “has had to back down due to demands from the
unions,” Investec said today in a note to clients. The company
“has therefore demonstrated to shareholders that it is unable
to make the changes that are needed to strengthen its
business,” and its problem “runs much deeper than” the 40,000
ounces of platinum it lost because of the strike, it said.  The accord with the AMCU came after the company agreed to
redeploy affected miners into positions now held by contractors
and to offer more voluntary separation packages, Johannesburg-based Amplats said in a statement yesterday.  The company would retain a further 1,250 workers for six
months to undertake mine reclamation work, which includes the
removal of underground equipment at shafts that it plans to
close, it said.  “They just couldn’t do what they initially set out to
do,” Albert Minassian, an analyst at Investec, said by phone
from  Cape Town . “By the time they pleased everyone there was
little left.”  The agreement ended a work stoppage that started on Sept.
27 and cost the company almost 1 billion rand ($101 million),
Chief Executive Officer Chris Griffith said on Johannesburg-based SAfm radio today.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , which owns 77
percent of Amplats, will close or sell more of the platinum
company’s mines if profit doesn’t improve next year, CEO  Mark Cutifani  said Aug. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  