-- Arab Bankers Argue Over Benevolent Dictatorship Versus Democracy
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-10-11T20:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/arab-bankers-argue-over-benevolent-dictatorship-versus-democracy.html
Political unrest since 2011 shows
that the Arab world is best served by “benevolent” dictators
who can prevent chaos, the head of one of the region’s biggest
banks said.  “I know I am controversial but this is how I believe,”
Ibrahim Dabdoub, chief executive officer of  National Bank of
Kuwait , said during a panel at the International Institute of
Finance in  Washington  today. “Look at the way  Egypt  has turned
into. Not that good, but better than the chaos we have seen,”
Dabdoub said, referring to the military’s ouster of Islamist
President Mohamed Mursi in July. “Democracy in the Arab world,
we won’t see it soon.”  His remarks reflect a debate in the Arab world about the
pro-democracy uprisings in Egypt, Libya and Tunisia, where the
toppling of autocratic leaders failed to bring immediate
economic benefits. The turmoil that followed the revolts will
cost the seven most affected countries about $800 billion by the
end of next year, according to HSBC Holdings Plc estimates.  In Egypt, economic hardship and perceptions of the
government’s Islamist bias drove hundreds of thousands onto the
streets, 2 1/2 years after similar protests toppled  Hosni
Mubarak . This time the target was Mursi, the country’s first
freely elected civilian president, who was ousted in favor of an
army-backed interim government.  ‘Empty Revolution’  The 2011 revolt was a “sort of an empty revolution”
without a “blueprint” or a leader, said Hisham Ezz Al Arab,
chairman of Cairo-based Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE,
the country’s biggest publicly traded lender. Holding elections
before passing a constitution guaranteeing the rights of
minorities was a “fatal mistake” that enabled Mursi to favor
his supporters and ignore the rest, he said.  Egypt’s transitional plan, which includes drafting a new
constitution and holding elections, will set the ground for
economic recovery, Ezz Al Arab said, though he predicted that it
would take as long as 10 years for stability to return to the
Arab world. Violence has escalated since Mursi’s removal, with
security forces killing hundreds of supporters protesting to
demand his reinstatement.  The military provided all of Egypt’s presidents since the
1952 coup that toppled the constitutional monarchy. Army
officers also ruled countries such as Syria and  Iraq  after
independence. The idea that Muslims are best served by a
benevolent dictator also has roots in the writings of Islamists
such as Jamal Aldin al-Afghani, a 19th century scholar.  Tarek Youssef, a board member of Libya’s central bank, took
the opposite view, citing his own country’s experience under
Muammar Qaddafi, who had laid claim to such a role.  “I don’t want to experiment again with having a despotic
enlightened leader,” Youssef told the panel. “Libya lived
under a despotic leader who for 42 years managed not only to
destroy the fabric of society but the state and everything
around it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  