-- Arab Spring Countries Need $120 Billion, World Bank Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-10-11T11:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/arab-spring-countries-need-120-billion-world-bank-says.html
Countries affected by the Arab
Spring uprisings that started in Tunisia in 2011 need as much as
$120 billion to help overhaul their economies, economists at two
international lenders said.  Newly established governments from Tunisia to  Egypt , which
saw their economies “decimated,” need $30 billion to $40
billion a year over three years to facilitate public investment
and infrastructure projects,  Erik Berglof , chief economist at
the  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development  and Shanta Devarajan, the  World Bank ’s chief economist for the Middle East
and North Africa, wrote for  Project Syndicate .  “Without urgent action, there is a good chance that those
who took to the streets -– indeed, risked their lives -– in the
struggle for dignity and opportunity will have done so in
vain,” Berglof and Devarajan wrote.  Combined economic output in Egypt, Libya,  Syria , Jordan and
Lebanon will have declined to about $2 trillion from $2.9
trillion over the four years through end-2014,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
said in an Oct. 8 report. The  International Monetary Fund  this
week cut its forecast for growth in the  Middle East  this year to
2.1 percent from 3.1 percent.  “Political assassinations and polarization in Tunisia,
civil unrest and a military takeover in Egypt, terrorist attacks
in Yemen, sectarian strife and an institutional vacuum in Libya,
and civil war in Syria have contributed to a sharp fall in
investment, tourism, exports, and GDP growth, aggravating
macroeconomic imbalances,” Berglof and Devarajan wrote. “Most
of the Arab Awakening countries lack buffers to withstand
further economic shocks.”  Technical Support  The affected countries would benefit from technical support
to make sure the funds are used for projects that create jobs,
and assistance in the areas of trade and regulatory reform, such
as free-trade agreements with the European Union.  The international response has been “piecemeal,” and
beyond the removal of autocratic leaders, few of the issues,
such as youth unemployment, that fueled the uprisings have been
addressed, the economists said.  The aid that is required according to Berglof’s and
Devarajan’s estimates must come on top of the $38 billion
pledged through international development banks in 2011 and the
$28 billion Gulf Cooperation Council countries have contributed
to the Arab transition countries, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  