-- Argentine Bonds Rally as Government Negotiates World Bank Loan
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-10-11T17:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/argentine-bonds-rally-as-government-negotiates-world-bank-loan.html
Argentine bonds rallied, reducing
the extra yield investors demand to hold the securities instead
of U.S. Treasuries to the lowest level in almost a year, as the
government negotiates a $3 billion loan from the World Bank.  The so-called yield spread fell 24 basis points, or 0.24
percentage point, to 895 basis points at 2:36 p.m. in Buenos
Aires, the lowest since Oct. 25, 2012, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified index. The spread climbed
to as high as 1,337 basis points this year. Yields on
restructured dollar bonds due in 2017 dropped 41 basis points to
13.73 percent today.  Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino said yesterday the
country is in talks with the World Bank to secure financing
through 2016. Bonds are also rising after the Buenos Aires-based
newspaper Ambito said the country is resolving its claims with
the lender’s arbitration tribunal and as President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s hospitalization spurred speculation
there will be a change in government, said  Siobhan Morden , the
head of Latin American strategy at Jefferies Group LLC in New
York.  “It’s a combination of all these announcements with
expectations of a regime change,” Morden said in a telephone
interview. “You get a sense that they recognize they have a
structural financing gap and low reserves and they need to find
alternative ways of funding.”  The World Bank loan would help finance development projects
at a time when the government’s fiscal deficit is widening the
most since the 2001 financial crisis and  reserves  are at a six-year low of $34.6 billion.  Arbitration Claims  Argentina will pay about $500 million to five companies
that won arbitration claims in the World Bank’s tribunal using
local law dollar bonds due in 2015 and 2017, Ambito reported
yesterday, without saying where it obtained the information.  Bonds are extending a rally spurred by an Oct. 7
announcement that Fernandez needed surgery to drain a hematoma
in her skull. Fernandez is recovering, eating solids and has
begun to walk in her room, presidential spokesman Alfredo Scoccimarro said today in Buenos Aires. Her doctors have yet to
say when she may be released or exactly how long she will have
to rest.  This week the spread over Treasuries has tumbled 110 basis
points, dropping below that of Venezuela, Belarus and Ukraine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  