-- Ariad’s Inclusig Being Investigated by U.S. Regulators
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-10-11T20:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/ariad-s-inclusig-being-investigated-by-u-s-regulators.html
The safety of  Ariad Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (ARIA) ’s leukemia drug Iclusig is being investigated by U.S.
regulators because of the increasing frequency of reports of
serious blood clots and narrowing of blood vessels in patients.  “Health-care professionals should consider for each
patient, whether the benefits of Iclusig treatment are likely to
exceed the risks of treatment,” the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  said today in a safety announcement. The agency
urged doctors and patients to report side effects of the drug.  Ariad plunged a record 66 percent on Oct. 9 after the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said the FDA had placed a
hold on enrollment of all trials of Iclusig because of safety
issues among participants. The medicine was approved last year
for two rare forms of leukemia, and will remain on the market,
the company said.  “Any investor looking at buying this stock generally needs
to be comfortable with this volatility and have at least a 1-plus year outlook,”  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets , wrote today in a research note. “Short-term sales of
Iclusig could clearly slow due to new safety communication.”  Ariad  declined  21 percent to $4.26 at the close in New
York, the stock’s lowest value since December 2010. The shares
have lost 78 percent this year.  Accelerated Approval  Iclusig was approved based on an accelerated process that
relied on a single trial showing the drug helped patients.
Companies that gain accelerated approval must conduct additional
study to prove their drug is effective. Iclusig, Ariad’s sole
approved drug, drew $14 million in sales in the second quarter.  Patients taking the drug have had side effects including
fatal heart attacks, stroke and narrowing of large arteries of
the brain and blood vessels in the extremities, the FDA said
today, citing data from trials and reports since the drug
entered the market.  Studies conducted before approval showed that serious blood
clots in the arteries occurred in 8 percent of patients treated
with the drug, and blood clots in the veins occurred in 3
percent. The most recent clinical data from the company showed
at least 20 percent of those taking Iclusig have developed clots
of narrowing of the blood vessels, the FDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  