-- Maria de Villota, Former Female F-1 Test Driver, Dies at 33
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-10-11T16:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/maria-de-villota-former-female-f-1-test-driver-dies-at-33.html
Racing test driver Maria de Villota,
who lost her right eye in a crash during practice with the
Marussia Formula One team last year, has died, Spanish motor
racing federation official Juan Zamorano said. She was 33.  De Villota’s body was found at about 7 a.m. local time at
a hotel in Seville, where she was scheduled to participate in a
conference today, Zamorano said by phone.  Investigators reported De Villota’s death appeared to be
because of “natural causes,” a police spokesman said by phone
from Seville. The results of an autopsy weren’t immediately made
public. A local government official said autopsy results aren’t
normally released.  The daughter of racing driver Emilio de Villota, her
attempt to become the first woman to race in Formula One since
1992 ended when she lost her eye while trying out a Marussia
racing car at an airfield near Cambridge,  England , in July 2012.  De Villota had competed in series including the World
Touring Car Championship since 2001, according to her website.
In 2004, she drove a Ferrari Modena sports car at the 24 Hours
of Daytona.  She had completed 300 kilometers (186 miles) of testing for
the Lotus Renault Formula One team in 2011 before being hired as
Marussia’s test driver.  De Villota  made her first of several public appearances
after the crash in October 2012, when she said she planned to
become a racing-driver instructor in Madrid. She also issued a
computer graphic which showed the injuries she suffered to her
head and face.  Head Injury  “The first time that I looked in the mirror I had 104
black stitches in my face that looked like they had been
stitched with maritime rope and I had lost my right eye -- it
left me terrified,” De Villota told  Spain ’s Hola magazine.  In the interview, last October, she also said she suffered
from headaches which doctors “don’t know how long will last --
maybe years.”  “I have to control my efforts a lot because of the cranial
pressure,” she added. “I have also lost smell, and taste,
which is linked to smell.”  After recently marrying, she was scheduled to present her
autobiography, titled ‘Life is a Gift,’ next week, Miguel
Cardenal, Spain’s secretary of state for sport, said in a
televised interview.  The last woman to drive at a Grand Prix weekend was  Italy ’s
Giovanna Amati, who failed to qualify for three races for the
Brabham team in 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  