-- Asian Currencies Advance in Week as U.S. Default Concern Eases
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-10-11T04:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/asian-currencies-advance-in-week-as-u-s-default-concern-eases.html
Asian currencies rose, heading for a
second weekly gain, as optimism U.S. lawmakers will raise the
debt limit to avoid a default spurred demand for riskier assets.  Indonesia ’s rupiah led the advance as the Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index rose 0.1 percent from Oct. 4. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks climbed for a fourth day
today, the longest winning streak since Sept. 12, after House
Republicans proposed yesterday a short-term increase in the debt
ceiling that would push the lapse of U.S. borrowing authority to
Nov. 22 from Oct. 17.  “Markets are pricing in some kind of resolution in the
U.S., therefore there is some modest positioning for Asian
currencies,” said  Nizam Idris , head of strategy for fixed
income and currencies at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in Singapore.
“When it happens, Asian currencies will bump up quite
aggressively. The week started with some concern.”  Indonesia’s rupiah climbed 0.5 percent from a week ago to
11,465 per dollar as of 10:45 a.m. in Jakarta, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  India ’s rupee and
 Taiwan ’s dollar appreciated 0.4 percent to 61.2175 and
NT$29.400, respectively. The Malaysian ringgit rose 0.2 percent
to 3.1778, and  China ’s  yuan  advanced 0.07 percent to 6.1180.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  told Republicans during a White
House meeting that he wants to raise the debt limit and end a
partial government shutdown, now in its 10th day, Representative
Hal Rogers of  Kentucky  said yesterday. The Republican proposal
released yesterday included only a short-term increase in the
debt limit.  U.S. Debt  If the U.S. fails to raise the borrowing cap by Oct. 17,
the government will have $30 billion plus incoming revenue to
pay its bills. It would start missing scheduled payments,
including benefits, salaries and interest, between Oct. 22 and
Oct. 31, according to the Congressional Budget Office.  The rupiah headed for a second weekly gain after Bank
Indonesia set guidelines on Oct. 9 for individuals and
companies, including state-owned firms, to hedge against
currency swings. Indonesia’s current-account deficit at 2.5
percent to 2.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2014 would
be “acceptable,” compared with 4.4 percent last quarter,
Senior Deputy Governor Mirza Adityaswara said yesterday.  “Longer-term strengthening in the rupiah will be data-dependent, with all eyes on the external balance,” said
Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at  Malayan
Banking Bhd. (MAY)  in Singapore. “We will see more impact on the
volatility starting next month as local companies take out
hedges.”  Rupiah Technicals  The rupiah is set to rebound from its biggest loss in 2000,
trading patterns suggest. Its relative-strength index,
calculated on a monthly basis to smooth out volatility, was as
high as 89 at the end of September, the most-oversold level in
more than 15 years. The rupiah plunged 16 percent this year, the
biggest since a 27 percent tumble in 2000.  The ringgit rose for a second day as the benchmark stock
gauge, the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index, gained 0.6 percent,
the most this month. Official data last week showed  Malaysia ’s
overseas shipments expanded 12.4 percent in August, more than
the median 4.7 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
U.S. is the nation’s fourth-biggest export market.  “Optimism that the U.S. will avoid a default is helping to
boost sentiment on Asian currencies,” said Yeah Kim Leng, chief
economist at RAM Holdings Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “The ringgit
could strengthen further as the U.S. is one of Malaysia’s major
trading partners.”  Elsewhere in Asia, South Korea’s won was little changed in
the past five days at 1,070.23, while the Philippine peso and
the Thai baht lost 0.1 percent to 43.110 and 31.298,
respectively.  Vietnam ’s dong rose 0.1 percent to 21,100.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  