-- Asian Stocks Rise Most in Three Weeks on U.S. Debt Talk
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-10-11T10:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/asian-stocks-rise-fourth-day-on-optimism-u-s-to-lift-debt-limit.html
Asian  stocks  rose the most in three
weeks amid optimism U.S. lawmakers will lift the debt limit and
avoid a default.  Great Wall Motor Co. added 2.8 percent in Hong Kong after
the carmaker reported sales increased last month. Westpac
Banking Corp. contributed the most to the regional benchmark’s
advance, gaining 2.5 percent in Sydney after agreeing to buy
Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s assets in Australia. Fast Retailing
Co.,  Asia ’s largest clothing retailer, fell 3.2 percent in Tokyo
after forecasting profit that missed analyst estimates.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index jumped 1.3 percent to 140.98 as
of 7:35 p.m. in Tokyo, its steepest daily advance since Sept.
19. Talks will continue as Republicans and Democrats seek a
“path forward” on the debt ceiling, according to Republican
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor . The White House said “no
specific determination was made” during an initial meeting
between the parties in  Washington .  “Both sides are trying to step away from that cliff next
week,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment
markets research at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management, which oversees about A$170 billion ($161 billion).
“People are assuming there will be some resolution before the
17th, but there’s clearly a long way to go.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed. The U.S. equity gauge jumped 2.2 percent yesterday, the
biggest rally since January. House Speaker  John Boehner  and
other party leaders met with President  Barack Obama  for more
than an hour at the White House to discuss delaying the lapse in
U.S. borrowing authority to Nov. 22 to Oct. 17 without attaching
policy conditions.  U.S. Jobs  Separately, claims for U.S. jobless benefits jumped last
week to the highest level in six months, a Labor Department
report yesterday showed, providing the first statistical warning
that the damage from the partial federal shutdown is starting to
ripple through the economy.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 1.4 percent this week,
after its fourth straight daily advance.  Japan ’s  Topix index  surged 1.6 percent today, and  South
Korea ’s Kospi index climbed 1.2 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index gained 0.5 percent and  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
rallied 1.6 percent.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 0.1 percent as markets reopened
following a holiday.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index added 0.6
percent. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 1.2 percent.  China ’s
Shanghai Composite Index added 1.7 percent.  China Data  China is scheduled to release a series of economic reports
over the weekend including September trade data.  China’s economy 
may grow about 7 percent for the “foreseeable future,” as
policy makers rein in house-price gains and local government
debt, Deputy Central Bank Governor Yi Gang said yesterday.  “It looks like it stabilized after growth slowed down in
the first half of the year,” said Halmarick at Colonial.  Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. yesterday announced it
raised the discount for using some U.S. Treasury bills as
collateral to take into account a possible U.S. default. The
change only affects the clearing house for index futures and
options, bourse spokeswoman Lorraine Chan said.  Great Wall Motor added 2.8 percent to HK$46.20 after
September sales volume increased 8.1 percent to 66,079 units.
Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. dropped 3.5 percent to HK$4.11
after the carmaker said it achieved 67 percent of its full-year
sales target as of the end of September.  Westpac Acquisition  Westpac gained 2.5 percent to A$32.99 after agreeing to buy
Lloyds Banking’s Australian assets as tighter capital rules
following the 2008 financial crisis prompt European and U.S.
lenders to retreat from the Asia-Pacific region. The A$1.45
billion ($1.37 billion) transaction includes an A$8.4 billion
leasing and corporate loan portfolio, Sydney-based Westpac said.  Fast Retailing lost 3.2 percent to 33,450 yen. Net income
will probably be 92 billion yen ($936 million) for the year
ending August 2014, the maker of Uniqlo casual apparel said
yesterday in a statement after the market closed. That’s lower
than the 99.3 billion yen average of 19 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore Exchange Ltd., Southeast Asia’s biggest bourse,
plans to add circuit breakers by early next year after a plunge
in shares of three commodity companies erased $6.9 billion in
market value over three days. The bourse operator imposed
trading restrictions this week on Blumont Group Ltd., Asiasons
Capital Ltd. and LionGold Corp. after their stock prices
plunged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  