-- Australia’s Abbott to Challenge Same-Sex Marriage Laws in Court
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-10-11T03:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/australia-s-abbott-to-challenge-same-sex-marriage-laws-in-court.html
The Australian government will mount
a High Court challenge against a bid to legalize same-sex
marriage in a territory that encompasses the capital Canberra,
Prime Minister Tony Abbott said.  “It is pretty clear under our constitution that it is the
Commonwealth that has responsibility for the rules regarding
marriage,” Abbott, whose Liberal-National coalition won Sept. 7
elections, told reporters in Darwin today. “We think it’s
important that there be a uniform approach to marriage
throughout the Commonwealth and that’s what we are going to do
our best to ensure.”  The Labor government of the Australian Capital Territory
will push ahead with same-sex marriage laws after federal
Attorney-General George Brandis warned of the pending legal
challenge, Chief Minister Katy Gallagher said in an Australian
Broadcasting Corp. interview yesterday. The laws are expected to
pass this month and the first marriages may occur as early as
December, she said.  Abbott is seeking to enforce jurisdiction over the matter
after the Greens party introduced same-sex legislation into the
federal parliament last year that was subsequently defeated.
Abbott, who has come under criticism for holding socially-conservative beliefs, has a gay sister and as opposition leader
indicated he’d support allowing coalition party room members to
vote on the issue according to their own views.  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron in July shepherded though
laws to let same-sex couples marry, as well as at civil
ceremonies. Couples with civil partnerships are able to convert
them into marriages and people in heterosexual marriages are
allowed to change gender and stay married.  ‘Futile Action’  Brazil ,  France  and South Africa are among other nations
that allow same-sex couples to marry. In  Australia , Tasmania
state recognizes same-sex marriages performed in other
jurisdictions.  Abbott, 55, said future federal parliaments may consider
introducing same-sex marriage laws.  “If this matter were to come up again it would be dealt
with by our party-room in the usual way,” Abbott, 55, said.
“If it comes up, we’ll look at it and we’ll decide exactly
what’s going to happen.”  Greens leader Christine Milne said the government’s legal
challenge was unjustified.  “Tony Abbott and George Brandis will need to look same-sex
couples in the eye and explain the real reasons they are taking
this futile action,” Milne said in an e-mailed statement today.
“It’s last century discrimination and the rest of us have moved
on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  