-- Babson Hires Posch, Adrogue to Head Emerging-Market Debt
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-10-11T19:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/babson-hires-posch-adrogue-to-head-emerging-market-debt-team.html
Babson Capital Management LLC, a
debt manager with more than $182 billion in assets, hired
Brigitte Posch and Ricardo Adrogue to lead a new team investing
in emerging-market debt.  Posch, who is based in London, will head  investment
management  for all emerging-market corporate debt strategies,
according to an e-mailed statement today from Babson. Adrogue,
based in  Boston , will oversee investment management for
sovereign and local-currency strategies. The new team will
report to Russ Morrison, head of global fixed income.  Emerging market governments and companies have sold about
$300 billion of dollar-denominated bonds in international
 capital markets  in 2013, 10.8 percent more than in the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Emerging economies will grow 4.5 percent in 2013, compared with
an estimate of 5 percent made in July, the  International
Monetary Fund  said this week.  “Expanding our already robust global fixed-income platform
to include an emerging-market debt capability builds on our
firm’s core strengths, and supports our strategy of providing
customized investment solutions for our clients,” Tom Finke,
Babson’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Adrogue joins Babson from Cabezon Investment Group where he
was an emerging-market, fixed-income  money manager , according to
the company. Before Cabezon, he was a money manager for emerging
market debt at Wellington Asset Management. Posch previously
worked at Pacific Investment Management Co., where she was head
of emerging-market corporate debt.  More Hires  Babson, which has offices in New York, Charlotte,  North
Carolina  and Springfield, Massachusetts, is a unit of
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. It plans to hire
additional professionals for the emerging-market team in the
coming months, the company said.  The IMF cut its 2013 Mexican growth forecast to 1.2 percent
from 2.9 percent, while keeping unchanged its 2.5 percent growth
forecast for Brazil this year and reducing its 2014 estimate to
2.5 percent from 3.2 percent. The Washington-based lender
expects Russia to grow 1.5 percent this year, down from 2.5
percent in July, according to the report. India will grow 3.8
percent this year, the IMF said, down from a July prediction of
5.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  