-- Baker Botts Advises Regency in PVR Deal: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/baker-botts-advises-regency-in-pvr-deal-business-of-law.html
Baker Botts LLP is representing
 Regency Energy Partners LP (RGP)  on its agreement to buy  PVR Partners
LP (PVR)  for about $3.88 billion in stock and cash to expand natural
gas transport and processing capabilities.  Vinson & Elkins LLP is advising PVR.  Baker Botts lawyers on the deal include partners Neel Lemon, Breen Haire, Joshua Davidson, Steve Marcus, A.J.
Ericksen, Rob Fowler, Paul Cuomo, Scott Janoe, Doug Rayburn and
Luke Weedon.  The V&E team is led by capital markets partners Michael Swidler and Mike Rosenwasser. Also assisting are partners Price Manford, Gary Huffman and David D’Alessandro.  Regency is a pipeline partnership controlled by billionaire
Kelcy Warren’s  Energy Transfer Equity LP. (ETE)  PVR holders will get
1.02 common units of Regency for each unit they own and a one-time cash payment estimated at about $40 million in total, the
companies said in a joint statement yesterday.  The transaction, expected to be completed in the first
quarter, will extend Regency’s operations into the Marcellus
Shale, the largest U.S. shale-gas basin, the Utica Shale in  Ohio 
and the Granite Wash fields in Texas and  Oklahoma , Chief
Executive Officer Michael J. Bradley said in the statement.  For more, click here.  News  Libor Trader Hayes Switches Lawyers Ahead of U.K. Plea Hearing  Tom Hayes, the former UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. trader who
became the first individual charged in the U.K. over the rigging
of interest-rate benchmarks, switched lawyers ahead of a plea
hearing.  Hayes hired U.K. law firm Garstangs Burrows Bussin in place
of Fulcrum Chambers to advise him as he approaches the Oct. 21
hearing, Lydia Jonson, his former lawyer at Fulcrum Chambers in
London, said in an e-mailed statement.  Hayes is charged with conspiring with employees of JPMorgan
Chase & Co.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , HSBC Holdings
Plc, Rabobank Groep and Deutsche Bank AG, as well as Tullett
Prebon Plc, ICAP Plc and RP Martin Holdings Ltd., over a four-year period to manipulate yen Libor rates.  He’s scheduled to enter a plea at a court hearing this
month in  London . Two former RP Martin brokers also charged with
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate will appear at
the hearing as well.  Firm News  Herrick Feinstein Opens Istanbul, Washington Offices  Herrick, Feinstein LLP opened sites in Washington and
Istanbul, giving the firm a total of five offices.  “This expansion is an important milestone in Herrick’s
85-year history,” Irwin A. Kishner, chairman of Herrick’s
executive committee, said in a statement.  The Washington office will enhance the firm’s state and
local government-relations capabilities in  Albany , New York,
and New York City, according to the statement. Members of
Herrick’s government-relations team will contribute to the
growth of the office, including Michael E. McMahon, former
representative for New York’s 13th congressional district,
and Elizabeth Holtzman, who for eight years represented New
York’s 16th congressional district, the firm said.  Herrick has represented the Turkish government and many
Turkish companies. The firm’s relationship with  Turkey  began in
the late 1980s, when the co-chairman of the firm’s Turkish
practice, Lawrence M. Kaye, led a team that recovered Turkey’s
Lydian Hoard antiquities and 1,800 ancient Greek and Lycian
coins, the firm said.  Herrick’s Istanbul office will be led by partner and
Turkish practice group co-chairman Barbaros M. Karaahmet, who
began his career at the firm in 1995. Kaye, a senior partner and
member of Herrick’s executive committee, and McMahon, who served
on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and was a member of
the Turkish Caucus, will also play a role in the Istanbul
office.  Herrick has 170 lawyers and is based in New York City.  John Martin Named Head of Baker Botts’ Palo Alto Office  Corporate lawyer John Martin, chairman of Baker Botts LLP’s
technology sector, will become the partner in charge of the Palo
Alto,  California , office.  Martin succeeds founding partner-in-charge B.C. Boren, who
opened the office in 2008 and managed its growth from four
lawyers to more than 20, the firm said.  “John is well-equipped to take on the challenge of
building on the foundation B.C. established during his more than
five years developing our Palo Alto office into a strong and
vibrant resource for our clients,” Baker Botts managing partner
Andrew Baker said in a statement.  Martin’s corporate practice focuses on mergers and
acquisitions, corporate finance, and corporate governance. He
recently relocated to Palo Alto from  Dallas  to bolster the
firm’s corporate practice in Silicon Valley and to leverage his
technology sector leadership role within the firm, according to
the statement.  “Our clients -- well established in Silicon Valley or with
major interests in the region -- have been instrumental in
fueling our growth since we opened our doors five years ago,”
Martin said.  Baker Botts has about 700 lawyers at 15 offices in the
Americas, Europe, the Middle East and  China .  Partner Moves  Reed Smith Adds Tax and Transfer Pricing Trio From Dentons  Reed Smith LLP added an international tax and transfer
pricing team of three partners along with one counsel and one
economist from Dentons LLP.  The group is led by partner David Hryck, formerly U.S. head
of international tax at Dentons, and includes partners Jeffrey Korenblatt and David Mason.  Hryck and Korenblatt join Reed Smith’s tax, benefits and
wealth planning group. Mason is a member of the firm’s corporate
and securities group. Hryck and Mason join the New York office
while Korenblatt is resident in  Washington .  “This group complements the firm’s tax practice, and adds
greater depth to our international tax capabilities,” James Tandler, chairman of Reed Smith’s tax, benefits and wealth
planning practice, said in a statement. “Adding an entirely new
transfer pricing practice to our international tax capability
will benefit a broad range of Reed Smith clients. Transfer
pricing is a highly specialized and increasingly important area
of global commerce that we are happy to now be able to offer our
clients.”  Hryck advises high-net-worth individuals and multinational
companies on their business transactions and corporate
structures. Korenblatt advises on the tax-efficient structuring
of domestic and cross-border mergers, acquisitions,
reorganizations, and other matters. Mason focuses on
transactional matters, including M&A, capital markets, private
equity and corporate governance.  Reed Smith has more than 1,800 lawyers in 25 offices in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Clifford Chance Private Equity Partner Joins Latham in London  Latham & Watkins LLP said Tom Evans will join the firm’s
London office as a partner in the corporate department. He was
previously at Clifford Chance LLP, where he was part of the
private equity group.  His practice focuses on domestic and international
transactional work for private equity clients.  “While we have seen improvements in liquidity in European
leveraged finance bank lending, accessing the high yield and
U.S. bank finance markets is increasingly attractive for
European private equity deals,” Nick Cline, Latham & Watkins’s
London office managing partner, said in a statement.  Evans is the fourth partner hired by Latham’s London office
since May, when David Walker, former global head of private
equity at Clifford Chance, joined the firm. Dean Naumowicz,
former head of derivatives at Norton Rose Fulbright, and Simon
Bushell, former co-chairman of corporate fraud at Herbert Smith
Freehills, also recently joined the firm.  Latham & Watkins has about 2,100 lawyers in offices in
Asia, Europe, the Middle East and the U.S.  Crowell & Moring Adds to Government Contracts Lawyers  Crowell & Moring LLP added Gail D. Zirkelbach and David J.
Ginsberg to the firm’s government contracts group in Los
Angeles. They joined the firm from McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP.  Zirkelbach’s and Ginsberg’s practices include internal
fraud and ethics investigations, bid protests at the federal and
state levels, litigation and arbitration of disputes involving
government contractors, and government contracts compliance
counseling.  “The addition of Gail and David to our group in Los
Angeles gives further depth to our West Coast presence and
continues to enhance our national government contracts bench,”
Angela B. Styles, co-chairwoman of Crowell & Moring’s government
contracts group, said in a statement.  Zirkelbach focuses her practice on internal investigations,
defense of fraud actions and white-collar criminal defense for
aerospace and technology companies in government contracts and
compliance areas.  Ginsberg’s background includes counseling clients in
establishing and adhering to government contract compliance
programs, federal and state bid protests, and cost accounting
matters.  Crowell & Moring has more than 500 lawyers at offices in
Washington, New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Orange County,
California, Anchorage,  Alaska , London and Brussels.  Foley Adds Health Care Lawyer Lisa Estrada in New York  Foley & Lardner LLP said Lisa Estrada joined the firm’s
health-care industry team as a partner in the New York office.
She previously led Arent Fox LLP’s national health-care practice
group.  Estrada has represented clients in government
investigations, False Claims Act litigation and other
enforcement matters. She also counsels dialysis providers,
medical-device suppliers, hospitals, hospices and home health-care providers on compliance with the FCA, anti-kickback
statutes, physician self-referral laws and regulations.  “As the government continues to roll out new regulations
and increase enforcement actions against health-care providers,
Lisa will be a key strategic adviser to our clients in New York
and nationally,” Lawrence Vernaglia, chairman of Foley’s
health-care industry team, said in a statement.  Foley has about 900 attorneys in 21 offices in North
America, Europe and Asia.  FordHarrison Adds Fred Gaona in Dallas From Crain Cubbage  Labor and employment law firm FordHarrison LLP added Fred
Gaona III in the Dallas office. He was previously at Crain
Cubbage Healy Hedgpeth Johnson & Wilson PLLC.  Gaona has litigation experience on behalf of management in
connection with all types of employment disputes. He also
handles general litigation matters and resolves disputes related
to noncompetition agreements.  FordHarrison has more than 200 attorneys in 25 U.S.
offices.  Video  Dean Says Law Schools Use Merit Scholarships to Boost Rankings  Law schools need to find ways to cut the expense of merit
scholarships, which they “use to buy students” with high LSAT
scores to improve the schools’ US News rankings, Brooklyn Law
School Dean and Patton Boggs LLP partner Nicholas Allard tells
Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.  The money would be better spent on scholarships for
students with financial need, he says. This is a Bloomberg
podcast. To download, watch or listen to this report now, click
here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  