-- Bank Rule Change Won’t Speed Up Risk Reduction: Danthine
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-10-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/bank-rule-change-won-t-speed-up-risk-reduction-danthine.html
Swiss National Bank Vice President
Jean-Pierre Danthine said regulators should stick to their 
current plans on stricter rules to make the banking system 
safer.   “It is unlikely that a sudden change in strategy would
lead to a faster elimination of the underlying risk,” Danthine
said, according to the text of a speech to be held in Lugano,
 Switzerland , today. “We are in the midst of implementing a
complementary and balanced package of measures” and “when it
is fully implemented, this package will substantially reduce,
and possibly eliminate, the too-big-to-fail problem.”  Switzerland introduced some of the strictest capital and
liquidity rules in the world in 2011, forcing its two biggest
banks,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , to hold capital equal
to as much as 19 percent of risk-weighted assets by 2019. The
banks are likely to meet this criteria by the end of 2014,
Danthine said, reiterating earlier comments.  While the issue of systemically important Swiss banks won’t
be solved until the 2019  capital requirements  are met and a
resolution mechanism is in place, “tangible progress has
already been made,” Danthine said.  Real-Estate Boom  Switzerland has also enforced rules to reduce cyclical
risks in its  real-estate market , which is in the midst of its
biggest expansion in two decades. The central bank has sounded
the alarm on unsustainable mortgage borrowing and is trying to
prevent a repeat of the property-market crisis in the 1990s,
which led to the closing of a bank and hobbled growth for years.  In an effort to protect banks from a housing crash, the
Swiss government in February, following a proposal by the SNB,
introduced new capital rules as of Sept. 30. From that date,
lenders have been required to hold an extra 1 percent of risk-weighted assets linked to domestic residential mortgages.  “Mortgage volumes and real-estate prices continue to grow
at rates significantly above those justified by fundamental
factors such as income and population growth,” Danthine said.
“This means that the imbalances, which are already large, are
increasing further,” he said. “At the same time, indications
of a possible slowdown in momentum became visible during the
course of 2013.”  It is “difficult to judge precisely where we are in the
credit cycle or the direction in which we are heading,”
Danthine said, calling for “prudent behavior” of involved
parties.  Banks should apply “conservative lending criteria in terms
of both loan-to-value ratios and affordability,” while
borrowers should bear “in mind that real-estate prices are
already at elevated levels,” he said. The latter need to ensure
that “even if  interest rates  were to rise sharply, they could
afford to service a loan,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  