-- Baseball Battling Dominican Drug Use While Grappling With A-Rod
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   R o d n e y   Y a p
-- 2013-10-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/baseball-battling-dominican-drug-use-while-grappling-with-a-rod.html
The Dominican Republic sandlots that
produce some of  Major League Baseball ’s biggest stars have
become the No. 1 headache to its anti-doping enforcers.  Players from the Caribbean nation, homeland of three
starters in this season’s All-Star Game, committed 53 percent of
the sport’s performance-enhancing drug offenses since the
Mitchell Report recommended stricter enforcement in December
2007, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg News .  The Dominican Republic, where baseball is seen as one of
the few ways to escape the poverty that grips the country of 10
million, is gaining greater scrutiny because of its number of
positive tests. Even as MLB wrestles with the case of  Alex
Rodriguez , who is of Dominican descent, baseball officials say
they’re working on eradicating the abuse in the 34-team summer
league it operates there for promising young athletes.  “On a per-player basis we spend far more in the Dominican
Republic on education than we do anywhere else,” said  Rob Manfred , baseball’s chief operating officer. “We’ve gotten
beyond our employee population into the trainer group in an
effort to make sure that we do everything possible to get those
numbers in line with the rest of our playing population.”  Not counting Rodriguez’s Aug. 5 ban that is under appeal,
MLB has issued 435 performance-enhancing substance suspensions -
- 33 in its major league drug program and 402 in the minors --
resulting in 21,745 games lost since the Mitchell Report,
according to a list provided by the sport. Dominicans account
for 229 cases, or 53 percent.  About 37 percent of the suspensions, or 163, have come out
of the  Dominican Summer League , where all 30 major league
organizations field at least one team. Among 856 players on
opening-day 25-man rosters and inactive lists in the major
leagues this season, 89, or 10 percent, were from the Dominican
Republic, the most of any country outside the U.S.  A-Rod’s Case  Baseball’s highest-profile current drug case has roots in
the country. Rodriguez, born in New York of Dominican parents,
is appealing a 211-game doping ban, the longest drug suspension
in the sport’s history. It’s a sore point in the Dominican
Republic, said Charles Farrell, a San Pedro de Macoris-based
sports and education activist.  “There are those who feel it’s a personal reflection on
their country and they feel very hurt by this,” Farrell said.
“When one of their heroes is disgraced, there’s a sense that
all of the Dominican Republic feels that disgrace.”  On Aug. 5, New York Yankees third baseman Rodriguez and 12
other major leaguers were suspended for their ties to a defunct
anti-aging clinic in Miami called Biogenesis of America LLC.
None had failed any drug tests.  50-Game Bans  Twelve of the players, eight of them Dominican, accepted
50-game suspensions. Rodriguez was banned through the 2014
season by MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig , who said the three-time
American League Most Valuable Player and active career home-run
leader used testosterone and human growth hormone over
“multiple years” and tried to “obstruct and frustrate”
baseball’s investigation. Rodriguez has since sued Selig,
claiming he is the victim of a “witch hunt,” which the
commissioner and MLB deny.  Rodriguez’s appeal will resume Oct. 15.  In 2009, the third baseman said he used performance-enhancing drugs from 2001-03, after  Sports Illustrated  reported
that he failed a drug test in 2003. He said his cousin injected
him with an over-the-counter substance from the Dominican
Republic to increase his energy during that time, while he
played for the  Texas Rangers . Rodriguez said he didn’t think he
was taking steroids, while acknowledging he knew “we weren’t
taking Tic Tacs.”  Rodriguez wasn’t banned because baseball had no policy in
place at the time of his use. He said he stopped using the drugs
in 2003 after the players voted for drug testing.  Team Differences  Farrell, who operates an education-focused baseball academy
in the Dominican Republic, first toured baseball academies there
in 2000 in a group sponsored by MLB. He said there are
differences in how teams educate their players on doping.  “Within some of the academies, there is better vigilance
with what these kids are doing in their spare time, what they’re
doing to build their bodies naturally,” Farrell, 62, said in a
telephone interview.  His non-profit  Dominican Republic Sports & Education
Academy  opened in January with the goal of developing college
athletes who can use baseball skills to gain an education rather
than just produce pro players. The academy, which teaches
English through immersion, financial basics, life skills and
baseball, has 15 students 13-16 years old, and one or two might
get consideration from a professional team’s academy at the
upper age limit, he said.  Average Salary  A job as a major league ballplayer, which paid an  average
of $3.2 million  in 2012 according to the players union, is
especially appealing in the Dominican Republic. More than 40
percent of its residents were  living in poverty  in 2011,
according to data from the  World Bank  in Washington. About 3.5
million, or 35 percent, were getting by on less than $4 a day in
2010. It was the fourth-poorest Caribbean country last year,
according to World Bank data tracking gross domestic product per
capita in the region.  Promising players who are signed by MLB clubs can get a
bonus ranging from $5,000 to millions, said Rafael Perez, MLB’s
director of Dominican operations. The average is $100,000.  The desire to escape the conditions give rise to unlicensed
street agents, so-called buscones, who train young players then
tout them to major league organizations, Perez said.  “For the most part they do a great job, they work hard,
they get these kids ready, they do an excellent job in getting
the kids’ skills up for the evaluation of our scouts,” he said.
“However they’re not regulated, and we can’t regulate them.”  Doping Clusters  The buscones who cheat give rise to clusters of doping
within baseball’s academies, Farrell said.  “It’s like a clique within a high school,” Farrell said.  His observations are borne out by academic research,
according to  Joshua Murray , assistant professor of sociology at
 Vanderbilt University  in Nashville,  Tennessee . “You have one
and then it spreads from there and snowballs.”  Murray, co-author of the study, “Why They Juice: The Role
of Social Forces in Performance Enhancing Drug Use by
Professional Athletes,” looked at major leaguers between 1985
and 2007 who were either named in the report produced by former
U.S. Senator  George Mitchell  or admitted to doping. It found
that players who came from teams free of infractions who moved
to teams where there were dopers were 7.3 times more likely to
begin drug use.  ‘Social Contagiousness’  “That’s suggestive of a social contagiousness-type spread,
where players are actually influencing each other,” Murray said
in a telephone interview. “If you have a set of players and
some are more likely to use than others, the spark that gets
them to use is that normative culture in their clubhouse of
other players having used.”  Research also suggests that performance-enhancing drug use
spreads within ethnic or linguistic networks, Murray said.  In findings from unpublished, separate research, Murray
said, Latinos were 3.3 times more likely to begin doping if they
played on a team with at least one other Latin player who was a
drug user. An American player was 6.6 times more likely to begin
doping if he played on a team with at least one other U.S.-born
user. Latinos were no more likely to begin using if they played
with U.S.-born users, the research showed.  Not Isolated  The studies suggest that general managers who discover
doping within their organizations should be particularly
concerned, and perhaps motivated, by the likelihood that the
usage might not be isolated to one “bad guy” looking to cheat
the system, according to Murray.  John Hart , an MLB Network analyst who managed in the
Dominican Republic in the late 1980s and later was general
manager of the Cleveland Indians and Rangers, said he believes
GMs share equal concern about doping within their organizations
due to the possibility of spending money on fraudulent players
and a worry of losing key assets to suspension while in
contention for a title.  “These players are their own corporation,” Hart said in a
telephone interview, noting the influence of family, friends,
and advisers such as buscones. “You can only emphasize the
policies, inundate these guys with information, pamphlets and
guest speakers. That’s as far as you can go.”  Cubs Lead  The Bloomberg analysis also shows that the  Chicago Cubs  had
the most doping bans in their organization, 24, followed by the
 Philadelphia Phillies  with 23 and the Yankees and  New York Mets 
with 22 each. The least-punished team was the  Boston Red Sox ,
with five.  Only the  Red Sox  among those teams reached the playoffs
this season.  The Cubs have had more success avoiding doping bans since
 Theo Epstein  joined the franchise in November 2011 as president
of baseball operations, leaving his post as the Red Sox’s GM.
Chicago’s five suspensions since then, all in the Dominican
Summer League, are tied with two other clubs for the sixth-most
among major league organizations.  The Cubs declined to comment on the drug cases, team
spokesman Peter Chase said in an e-mail. The Mets also declined
to comment, team spokesman  Jay Horwitz  said in an e-mail.
Telephone and e-mail messages left for Kevin Gregg, a spokesman
for the Red Sox, weren’t returned. E-mails sent to Yankees
spokesman Jason Zillo and Greg Casterioto, a Phillies spokesman,
weren’t returned.  Some Progress  MLB, which oversees the education of all players on doping,
has made progress in curbing Dominican drug use while continuing
to strengthen enforcement, according to Manfred. Its studies
haven’t discovered why some franchises are better than others at
staying clean, he said.  “The vast, vast majority of education that gets done is
done centrally through the commissioner’s office, so people are
getting the same education,” Manfred said in a telephone
interview.  MLB spends about $3 million on its minor-league drug
education program and on the 10,000 drug tests given throughout
the lower levels of the sport each season, about 20 percent in
the Dominican Republic.  Baseball’s efforts appear to be paying off. Fourteen
Dominican Summer League players have been suspended this year,
down from 15 in 2012, 18 in 2011 and 38 in 2010.  The sport’s drug troubles aren’t exclusively Dominican,
according to the statistics. Americans have had 119 violations,
about a quarter of the list.  Enforcement Tactics  While 7.6 percent of the violations have come out of the
major league drug program, 25 of the minor leaguers banned, an
additional 5.7 percent, either later played in the majors or
were trying to get back there.  While Manfred declined to discuss the Rodriguez case, he
said baseball has to use evidence beyond drug tests to enforce
the rules.  “Your biggest concern is something you usually don’t know
about today,” Manfred said. “Tests are one form of deterrence,
but the risk that I might catch you even if you don’t fail a
test, that’s a huge part of the puzzle from our perspective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Yap in  Los Angeles  at 
 ryap@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  