-- Batista’s OSX Surges 48% on Speculation BNDES to Rework Loan
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-10-11T20:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/batista-s-osx-surges-48-on-speculation-bndes-to-rework-loan.html
OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) ,  Eike Batista ’s
shipbuilding company, surged the most on record on speculation
Brazil’s national  development bank  will extend a 548 million-real ($252 million) debt.  The shares gained 32 percent to 74 centavos at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo after earlier rallying as much as 48
percent. It was the best performance among the 73 members of the
BM&FBovespa Small Cap  index , which rose 0.3 percent.  OSX had a 548 million-real debt with the development bank
know as BNDES as of June 2013, which was rolled over and matures
Oct. 15, according to regulatory filings. The Rio de Janeiro-based company said in an e-mailed reply to questions today that
it’s continuing to negotiate terms of the loan with BNDES.  “The government wants the company to succeed,” Fabiano Santin, a fixed-income analyst at Kondor Invest in  Sao Paulo ,
said by phone. “I don’t think they have a choice but to extend
the loan. You would have the additional risk of the company
shutting down and laying off people.”  Other OSX lenders are considering seizing two oil
production ships used as collateral on loans, according to six
people with direct knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
named because the discussions are private. OSX hired Credit
Suisse Group AG to help sell the vessels, the people said.
Creditors would join that process as they seek to avert losses
after OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA missed a $45 million
Oct. 1 bond payment that puts Batista on the brink of Latin
America’s biggest corporate default.  The BNDES loan has guarantees from Banco Votorantim SA and
no vessel as collateral, two people with knowledge of the matter
said.  A BNDES press official declined to comment on the loan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  