-- Beijing Halts Land Auction as Rising Home Sales Strain Funding
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-11T04:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/beijing-halts-land-auction-as-rising-home-sales-strain-funding.html
Beijing halted a residential land
auction as record land prices fueled expectations of further
home-price gains and rising housing sales strained lending
resources at public housing funds in some Chinese cities.  Beijing suspended the auction in the Shunyi district,
according to a statement on Beijing land reserve center’s
website Oct. 9. The move helped avoid setting a new high price
in the area, according to realtor Bacic & 5i5j Group. Cities
including Suzhou and Taizhou in eastern  China  have tightened
lending at local housing providence funds after growing loan
applications strained their capacity, the official People’s
Daily reported today without saying where it got the
information.  New-home prices in Beijing jumped 3.8 percent last month,
the most among the 100 Chinese cities tracked by  SouFun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN) , after  Sunac China Holdings Ltd. (1918)  bought a site in the city
for a record of more than 73,000  yuan  ($11,932) a square meter
(10.76 square foot) on Sept. 4. The land ministry told selected
cities to boost land supplies and take measures to “eliminate
abnormal land price signals” and better guide market
expectations, according to a Sept. 26 statement on its website.  Beijing’s suspension of the Shunyi plot “is anything but
unrelated to the land ministry’s stance,” said Hu Jinghui, a
vice president at Bacic & 5i5j, the city’s second-largest real
estate agency. Setting a new record land price in the region
after Sunac’s purchase “would have spoiled the achievements of
property curbs over the years.”  Prices Increase  New- home prices  in all 100 cities monitored by SouFun  rose
1.07 percent last month from August, rising for the 16th
consecutive month and defying three years of government measures
aimed at keeping home prices in check, SouFun, the nation’s
biggest real estate website owner, said in a statement Sept. 30.
Rising home sales reduced pressure on developers to trim
inventories and increased their pricing power, according to
SouFun.  Withdrawals and lending from  Shanghai ’s public housing fund
totaled 54.7 billion yuan in the first half, 83 percent more
than inflows during the period, according to the People’s Daily
report, which cited an unidentified official with the Shanghai
Provident Fund Management Center. Such funds, managed by local
governments and contributed by citizens and their employers on a
monthly basis, typically offer lower lending rates for home
purchases than banks.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  