-- Belarus Wants Russia to Charge Uralkali CEO Before Any Handover
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-10-11T13:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/belarus-wants-russia-to-charge-uralkali-ceo-before-any-handover.html
Belarus will insist that  Russia  lay
criminal charges against OAO Uralkali Chief Executive Officer
Vladislav Baumgertner before allowing him to return to his home
country, said President  Aleksandr Lukashenko .  Baumgertner “committed a crime,” Lukashenko said at a
press briefing today. The 41-year-old CEO was arrested in Minsk
on Aug. 26, a month after announcing his company’s withdrawal
from a potash marketing venture with Belarus that accounted for
40 percent of global supplies of the soil nutrient. Lukashenko
called for the partnership to be restored.  The $20 billion potash market was roiled at the end of July
after Uralkali, the biggest producer, split with its Belarusian
partner, accusing it of selling cargoes outside of their
marketing agreement. The Russian company said it would increase
output, sending shares of fertilizer producers plunging from
Toronto to  Tel Aviv .  Belarus charged Baumgertner with abuse of office in his
role as chairman of the Belarusian Potash Co. marketing venture.
He was held in a KGB prison for a month before being moved to
house arrest in a rented apartment in the Belarus capital.  The charge against the CEO has been changed “probably” to
embezzlement, Lukashenko said at the briefing, without giving
details. Dmitry Goryachko, a lawyer for Baumgertner in Minsk,
declined to comment on the allegations against his client.  The Belarus president said Sept. 19 that Baumgertner may be
handed to Russian investigators. Prosecutors from the two former
Soviet republics have discussed options for Baumgertner’s
release, Interfax reported at the time. The CEO should be tried
either in Belarus, or Russia, Lukashenko said today.  Interpol Request  Belarus asked Interpol to issue an arrest warrant for
billionaire  Uralkali (URKA)  shareholder Suleiman Kerimov and four
employees of the Russian potash producer. The agency declined
the request, Interfax reported Sept. 27. Interior Minister Igor
Shunevich said Oct. 2 that Interpol is still reviewing Belarus’s
request.  Lukashenko said today his country’s investigation into
Kerimov will continue, without specifying a charge. Belarus has
said that a reconciliation between Belarus and Uralkali will
only be possible if ownership of the Russian company changes.
Kerimov, who controls 33 percent of the Berezniki-based Uralkali
with two business partners, has held talks on selling the stake
since Baumgertner’s detention.  The Uralkali-Belarus potash partnership should be restored,
a move that would “double the price” of the nutrient,
Lukashenko said. “This is beneficial to us and to you, but we
don’t want to see any swindlers.”  The Belarus president repeated a claim he first made last
year that he was offered a bribe to give up control of the
country’s state-owned potash industry. The figure was $15
billion, with $10 billion to be paid to the state for the asset
and the rest to him, Lukashenko said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  