-- BHP’s Use of Jewelry to Cut Tax Bill Disputed by Colombia
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-10-11T20:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/bhp-s-use-of-jewelry-to-cut-tax-bill-disputed-by-colombia.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s most
valuable miner, underpaid royalties in  Colombia  by listing items
such as jewelry and entertainment among production costs,
according to the preliminary findings of a government audit.  By claiming expenses including a gold watch strap, English
classes, concerts and a production of ‘The Vagina Monologues,’
BHP’s Cerro Matoso ferronickel mine underpaid 62 billion pesos
($33 million) in taxes between 1998 and 2003 when adjusted to
today’s prices, the comptroller’s office said in an e-mail that
contained a list of the disputed expenses.  The agency, known as Contraloria General de la Republica,
put a lien on Cerro Matoso assets for that amount by August and
plans to make a final decision in June. The audit of the mine’s
previous operating contracts comes as BHP seeks to expand the
world’s second biggest ferronickel mine and faces community
protests over alleged pollution.  BHP declined to respond to e-mailed questions on the tax
case. While the company appears to have complied with its
contracts, the comptroller general “has the final word on
this,”  Maria Garcia, head of the government’s mining agency,
said in an Oct. 3 interview in Bogota.  “There were some ‘costs’ applied to the royalties that
clearly are not part of those related to the production
activity,” the comptroller’s office said in the report.  Nickel Slump  Cerro Matoso’s annual production of ferronickel, used
mainly to make stainless steel, was 50,800 metric tons through
June 30. Nickel futures on the London Metal Exchange tumbled 21
percent in the past year, the most among industrial metals.  In December, the government extended Cerro Matoso’s mine
lease with a gradual increase in royalty payments from 12
percent to 14 percent through 2029. If extended to 2044, the new
arrangements could double the government’s take from the mine,
based on a 50 percent increase in processing capacity, the
company said in a presentation sent by e-mail.  Last year the mine paid 133 billion pesos in royalties.  Demonstrations disrupted operations this week. BHP said by
e-mail yesterday that tests show Cerro Matoso complies with
emission limits and doesn’t impact  air quality  in surrounding
communities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  