-- BlackRock’s Money Funds Have Sold Vulnerable Treasuries
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-10-11T19:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/blackrock-s-money-funds-have-sold-vulnerable-treasuries.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  joined the two
biggest providers of money-market mutual funds in reducing
holdings of the riskiest U.S. Treasury maturities as investors
stepped up withdrawals across the industry.  BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, today
followed  Fidelity Investments  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
declaring its money funds free of the debt most likely to be
affected by a default as the U.S. government approaches its
borrowing limit. Investors pulled more cash yesterday from
institutional government-only money funds than in any day in
more than two years, according to research firm Crane Data LLC
in Westborough,  Massachusetts .  “We continue to take prudent actions in preparation for
all potential outcomes, despite our belief that Congress and the
president will likely act to prevent a U.S. default,” Tara
McDonnell, a spokeswoman for New York-based BlackRock, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  President  Barack Obama  and House Republican leaders moved
yesterday toward an agreement to extend the nation’s borrowing
authority as they remained at odds over terms for ending the
partial government shutdown. House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio 
yesterday said he would offer as soon as today a measure to
postpone a potential U.S. default to Nov. 22 from Oct. 17.  ‘Big Drop’  Assets in U.S. money funds that buy almost exclusively debt
backed by the federal government fell by $7.4 billion yesterday,
or 2.3 percent, the largest decline since July 29, 2011, shortly
before a resolution to the last debt ceiling crisis. Investors
withdrew $9.4 billion on that day, according to Crane Data.  “It’s definitely a big drop,”  Peter Crane , president of
Crane Data, said in an e-mail. “A debt deal can’t happen soon
enough at this point. A few more days of this and you’ll begin
to see forced selling” of assets by money funds.  Assets in all U.S. money funds fell $28.7 billion, or 1.1
percent, in the past seven days, according to the firm’s data.  Money funds can cope with a short-term default in  U.S.
Treasuries  as long as it doesn’t trigger significant investor
flight,  Fitch Ratings  said in an Oct. 9 report. Fitch cited
evidence that fund companies had reduced holdings in maturities
most likely to be affected by a default and had boosted their
level of assets that could be quickly converted into cash and
returned to withdrawing investors.  Federated Investors  “We have not seen unusual increases in redemptions,”
BlackRock’s McDonnell said. “We have been in communication with
our clients to ensure they understand our approach.”  The week’s exodus is a fraction of the $310 billion pulled
from money funds in the week after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
filed for bankruptcy in September 2008, causing a loss at the
Reserve Primary Fund and setting off a panic that helped freeze
global short-term debt.  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , the third-biggest provider, said
it stuck with maturities other firms were selling, convinced
that the White House and Republicans would reach a deal to avert
a default.  “We continue to hold  Treasury securities  that mature in
the upcoming weeks and are confident that they represent no
threat to the liquidity or stability of the portfolio,” Meghan McAndrew, a Federated spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  U.S. money funds held about $475 billion in Treasury
securities as of Aug. 31, and an additional $156 billion in
 repurchase agreements  collateralized by Treasuries. About $74
billion in Treasuries held by money funds matures from Oct. 24
to Nov. 15, Crane Data estimates.  Money-market funds give millions of households, companies
and other institutions a low-risk parking spot for cash and
channel $2.6 trillion to issuers of short-term debt including
the U.S. government, financial institutions and other
corporations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  