-- BlackRock’s Fink Sees Poor U.S. Fourth Quarter on Debt Talks
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-10-11T16:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/blackrock-s-fink-sees-poor-u-s-fourth-quarter-on-debt-talks-1-.html
Laurence D. Fink, whose  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK)  is the largest shareholder in companies from Apple Inc. to
General Electric Co., said the U.S. will have a “very poor”
fourth quarter even if lawmakers reach a compromise and extend
the nation’s borrowing authority.  “It will hurt retail sales and American CEOs in terms of
how they deal with their quarter,” Fink, who is BlackRock’s
chief executive officer, said today at the 2013 Institute of
International Finance annual membership meeting in  Washington .
The political uncertainty, coupled with the focus of many CEOs
on short-term results, means companies won’t invest in research,
development and technology, said Fink, whose firm is the world’s
largest money manager with $3.86 trillion in assets.  Consumer sentiment  in the U.S. fell in October to a nine-month low, and jobless claims rose last week to the highest
level in six months, reports this week showed, as the
government’s partial shutdown and the debt-ceiling debate
weighed on the world’s largest economy. House Speaker John
Boehner yesterday proposed a short-term debt limit increase to
postpone a potential U.S. default.  Failure by the world’s largest borrower to pay its debt --
unprecedented in modern history -- would devastate global
markets, money managers including Mohamed El-Erian, chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., have
said.  ‘Unacceptable Conversation’  “I think this is why it should be understood in this
country by the men and women we put in our office that this is
just an unacceptable conversation,” Fink said today.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
consumer sentiment  index  decreased to 75.2 this month from 77.5
in September, a report today showed. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey projected a drop to 75.3, according to the median
estimate. Applications for  unemployment benefits  jumped by
66,000 in the week ended Oct. 5 to 374,000, the Labor Department
said yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  and House Republican leaders are
discussing a potential agreement even as Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  said he doesn’t like the idea of extending the
deadline for a potential default. Reid said today he is open to
hearing Republican proposals.  Job Creation  The most important thing countries need to focus on is job
creation for the middle class as technology replaces workers who
earn lower wages, said Fink.  “Everywhere in the world we are beginning to see a
hollowing out of job creation,” he said. “I do believe it’s
structural.”  BlackRock, co-founded in 1988 by Fink, 60, was largely a
fixed-income manager until the mid-2000s. That’s when it
acquired State Street Research & Management Co. and Merrill
Lynch & Co.’s investment unit to add stocks and other assets.
BlackRock’s 2009  purchase  of Barclays Plc’s investment division
gave it iShares, the world’s biggest provider of exchange-traded
funds. As of January 2012, the firm held at least 5 percent of
the shares of 2,400 companies worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  