-- BMO Harris Bank Among Companies Sued Over Payday Loans
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/bmo-harris-bank-among-companies-sued-over-payday-loans.html
Bank of Montreal ’s BMO Harris Bank
was among the companies sued in class-action lawsuits by
 Maryland  and  Pennsylvania  residents accusing the banks of
working on behalf of payday lenders.  BMO Harris and other banks allow out-of-state payday
lenders to access a processing system used by banks to credit
and debit consumer checking accounts in states where such loans
are illegal, according to the complaints filed in federal courts
in Greenbelt, Maryland, and Philadelphia.  The banks “knew they were crediting and debiting
consumers’ accounts for unlawful purposes,” according to the
complaints filed by Patricia Booth from Garnet Valley,
Pennsylvania, and Jacinta Elder of Chevy Chase, Maryland.  The Justice Department and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
are pressuring banks to cut ties with online lenders that
advertise short-term payday loans that borrowers agree to repay
with their next paycheck. Online lenders typically require
borrowers to authorize direct debits from bank accounts to pay
back the loans. Interest rates on the loans can top 500 percent,
according to the complaints.  Two American Indian tribes sued  New York  state’s financial
regulatory agency in August over the crackdown on Internet
lending businesses, some of which are tribally owned.  At least 13 states have banned the loans or imposed a cap
on interest rates, according to the complaints.  “The allegations made against BMO Harris Bank by the
plaintiffs have no merit, and we strongly deny the claims that
are being alleged,” Paul Deegan, a spokesman for Toronto-based
 Bank of Montreal (BMO) , said in an e-mail.  The cases are Elder v. BMO Harris Bank, 13-cv-03043, U.S.
District Court, District of Maryland (Greenbelt) and Booth v.
BMO Harris Bank, 13-cv-05968, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia at  spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  