-- Bank of Canada’s Poloz Says Economic Growth Disappointed
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-11T19:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/boc-governor-poloz-says-canada-economic-growth-has-disappointed.html
Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said his country’s economic growth has disappointed, even
as it shows gradual signs of regaining momentum.  “It’s fair to say that growth has disappointed us to this
stage,” Poloz told reporters today in  Washington , where he is
attending a meeting of Group of 20 officials. “We are behind
where we thought we would be let’s say a year ago, or even for
that matter 6 months ago.”  Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem said earlier this month
the nation’s economy will expand more slowly than the central
bank had been forecasting as stronger exports and business
investment remain “elusive.” Macklem, in an Oct. 1  speech ,
said that gross domestic product will need to expand faster than
2.5 percent to reduce the slack in the economy, a pace that
isn’t likely to be met in the second half of 2013.  “What we need is growth that is significantly above 2
percent to begin reducing the excess capacity that we have in
the economy,” Poloz said, adding there are some positive
indicators, such an increase in the number of companies being
created.  “These are positives, just not big enough positives for us
to be fully confident that we are all the way there,” Poloz
said. “The gradual process of healing continues.”  Asked about differences between the Macklem speech and a
speech Poloz gave Sept. 18, Poloz said that his speech looked at
the “long-term.”  “We were actually both saying the same thing,” Poloz
said. “The story I was talking in  Vancouver  was a long-term
story about when we get home and what are the ingredients we
were looking for to get us home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Washington at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  