-- Brazil Sweetens Libra Oil Field Sale Terms to Lure Bids
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2013-10-11T17:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/brazil-sweetens-libra-oil-field-sale-terms-to-lure-bids.html
Brazil  is easing the terms of an
auction to develop Libra, the country’s largest oil find, after
fewer-than-expected companies signed up for the sale.  The group that wins the contract at an Oct. 21 auction will
be required to give 50 percent of output to the government until
costs and investments are covered, according to new terms
published in the Official Gazette today. Under original rules,
the government’s share would rise to 70 percent after two years
of production. The group offering the government the largest
share after costs are covered wins the contract upon paying a 15
billion-real ($6.9 billion) signing fee.  Brazil, which expects Libra will generate billions of reais
to fund public education and health, has failed to auction a
bullet-train project this year and to renew some utility
licenses after contract terms led investors to shy away.  China National Petroleum Corp. and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
are among 11 oil producers registered to participate in the
Libra auction, which Brazil’s oil regulator expected to attract
more than 40 companies. The move to sweeten the rules comes
after Augusto Nardes, head of the court overseeing  government
spending , said the higher returns would improve the “legal
security” of the contract.  “The change is good for the industry,”  Adriano Pires ,
head of the Brazilian Center for Infrastructure in Rio de
Janeiro, said by phone. “It’s a good incentive.”  Libra, which holds as much as 12 billion barrels of oil,
is located in the ultra-deep region known as pre-salt underneath
the Atlantic seabed, which holds the largest group of crude
discoveries this century. Brazil’s state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR3) , which expects pre-salt deposits to double its output by
2020, will hold at least 30 percent of each pre-salt field
auctioned by the government and control operations.  Small Turnout  Total SA, Ecopetrol SA and China National Offshore Oil
Corp. are also among companies registered to bid.  The “surprisingly small” turnout was caused by a limited
amount of geological data, a lack of experience with the
government’s production-sharing model and the potential size of
investments, Bank of America Corp. analyst Frank McGann said in
a Sept. 19 note to clients. The number of participants was about
a quarter of the more than 40 companies expected by the
regulator, Magda Chambriard, the head of Brazil’s oil agency
ANP, told reporters in Rio on Sept. 19.  “This is an attempt to comply with the demands and real
scenarios of the companies and the global market,” Leonardo
Theon de Moraes, a corporate lawyer at Sao Paulo-based Mussi,
Sandri & Pimenta Advogados, said of the change of terms in an e-mailed reply to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  