-- Brown Vetoes Tighter Controls on Some Assault Rifles
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-10-11T20:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/brown-vetoes-tighter-controls-on-some-assault-rifles.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
vetoed a gun-control measure that would have banned sales of
most types of semi-automatic rifles with detachable magazines
like those used in two of last year’s mass shootings.  Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat and a gun owner himself,
approved a ban on adapters to convert magazines to larger
capacity.  California lawmakers passed the bills in the wake of mass
shootings in a Newtown, Connecticut, school that killed 20
children and six educators, and in an Aurora, Colorado, movie
theater where 12 were killed. Brown said a ban on sale of semi-auto rifles with detachable magazines would do little to reduce
crime while infringing upon the rights of gun owners.  “This bill covers low-capacity rifles that are commonly
used for hunting, firearms training and marksmanship practice,
as well as some historical and collectible firearms,” Brown
said in a  statement  explaining his veto. “I don’t believe this
bill’s blanket ban on semi-automatic rifles would reduce
criminal activity or enhance public safety enough to warrant
this infringement of gun owners’ rights.”  The  National Rifle Association  had said it would challenge
the constitutionality of such a limit, according to a posting on
the NRA’s Institute for Legislative Action  website  Oct. 1.  Oakland Denied  Brown also vetoed a bill that would have allowed the city
of Oakland, where he was mayor for two terms, the right to
establish its own gun registration and licensing program with
more restrictions than state law. Oakland officials sought the
law to help combat the growing number of gun-related crimes in
the city of 400,000.  The governor signed a gun bill making California the first
state in the U.S. to prohibit the use of all lead ammunition for
hunting to curb lead poisoning in humans and wildlife. Brown
signed the lead bullet ban only after it was amended to make it
less restrictive to hunters.  “I am concerned, however, the impression left from this
bill is that hunters and sportsmen and women in  California  are
not conservationist,” he said in a statement. “Since 1930,
hunters have done more than any other community to conserve
species and their habitats and this is a lasting conservation
legacy.”  California passed the nation’s first ban on some semi-automatic rifles in 1989 after a gunman with an AK-47 sprayed an
elementary school in Stockton, killing five children and
wounding 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  