-- Caisse’s Sabia More Interested in Colgate Than BlackBerry
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-10-11T16:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/caisse-s-sabia-more-interested-in-colgate-than-blackberry.html
Caisse de Depot et Placement du
 Quebec , Canada’s second-largest pension fund, says it’s unlikely
to invest in BlackBerry Ltd. because it prefers more predictable
businesses such as Coca-Cola Co. and  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)   “There would have to be a number of things that happen for
us to have a serious interest” in BlackBerry,  Michael Sabia ,
chief executive officer of the Montreal-based fund said in an
interview yesterday. “We don’t see those on the table.” He
declined to specify the issues.  Domestic pension funds, including Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board and Alberta Investment Management Corp., are
among investors that have said they would consider joining a bid
for BlackBerry, the struggling smartphone maker. Fairfax
Holdings Ltd., the company’s largest shareholder, launched a
tentative bid Sept. 23 to take BlackBerry private in a $4.7
billion deal. Though Fairfax hasn’t named its partners, the
investor group would include a strong Canadian contingent,
Fairfax CEO Prem Watsa said.  Sabia declined to say whether Fairfax approached him to
invest in the Waterloo, Ontario-based device maker. He said his
pension fund, which manages C$185.9 billion ($178.9 billion) in
assets, hasn’t ruled out a direct investment in BlackBerry.  “We’ll keep the door open,” Sabia, 60, said. “But is it
something that we’re actively and intensely working on? Not
today.”  The Canadian device maker “competes in a very, very, very
challenging market,” Sabia said in the phone interview.
“That’s a tough business. If you miss a beat, you can be a long
time trying to catch up.  Sales Drop  BlackBerry’s been losing favor after sales plunged and it
cut 4,500 jobs -- a third of its workforce -- last quarter.
BlackBerry CEO Thorsten Heins said he was ‘‘very disappointed”
in the second quarter results that showed a loss as sales in the
Americas dropped 56 percent to $610 million.  Caisse de Depot, which oversees pensions for retirees in
the French-speaking province of Quebec, is looking to invest in
companies more rooted in the economy’s expanding middle class,
which include water utilities, malls, and personal-care
products, Sabia said.  The Caisse held $239 million in shares of New York-based
Colgate at June, according to a filing with U.S. securities
regulators. The fund also held $142 million in Atlanta-based
Coca-Cola. The  pension plan  owned 163,000 BlackBerry shares as
of Dec. 31, according to its annual report.  “We are a lot more focused on toothpaste and Coca-Cola
products that people use every day and are very hard to reuse,”
Sabia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  