-- California Gives Break to Job Seekers With Criminal Past
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/california-gives-break-to-job-seekers-with-criminal-past.html
California , with the most state and
local government employees in the U.S., won’t ask  job applicants 
if they’ve been convicted of a crime, in recognition that
growing numbers in the workforce have such records.  A bill signed into law by Governor  Jerry Brown  requires
that state and municipal governments first determine if an
applicant is qualified for the job before asking if he or she
has a criminal past. It doesn’t stop the agency from doing so
later nor does it prohibit background checks before hiring.  California’s law was a victory for civil-rights groups and
advocates for ex-offenders to lower employment barriers
nationwide. An estimated 1-in-4 adult Californians has an arrest
or conviction record, according to the bill’s author,
Assemblyman Roger Dickinson, a Sacramento Democrat. Advocates
say the criminal history question has a chilling effect at a
time when U.S. unemployment tops  7 percent  and 65 million
Americans have spent time behind bars.  “The problem of people with criminal records is at a
critical point,” said  Michelle Rodriguez , staff attorney for
the National Employment Law Project, which advocates for low-wage workers. “We have huge numbers of people who can’t get
work and at the same time more and more people who have gone
through the criminal justice system.”  The campaign to remove the question from job applications,
known as “Ban the Box,” has been growing since Hawaii first
took the step 15 years ago. It gained strength in other states
after the longest recession since the 1930s sent unemployment to
the highest in almost three decades.  New Jersey Bill  New Jersey lawmakers are considering a bill that would
prohibit all employers, not just government, from asking the
question on job applications. It has run into opposition from
the State Chamber of Commerce, which says it could open
employers to lawsuits from disgruntled applicants. Governor
 Chris Christie , a Republican, hasn’t expressed his position.  In May, Minnesota Governor  Mark Dayton , a Democrat, signed
a law requiring private employers to wait until a prospective
employee’s first personal interview before asking about criminal
records. Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee, a Democrat,
signed a similar bill in July.  Including California, 10 states have Ban the Box policies
or laws in place for government hiring, according to the
National Employment Law Project. Proponents say the
proliferation of commercial background checks by U.S. companies
since the Sept. 11 terror attacks has made it more difficult for
Americans who have served time behind bars to find work.  Employer Rejections  Prospective employers tend to reject job seekers if they
check a box on a form saying they’ve been convicted of a crime,
without ever giving applicants a chance to prove they might be
worth considering, Rodriguez said.  “Employment is huge for these people,” she said. “If you
can’t get a job, how are you supposed to support your family?
How are you supposed to have any kind of opportunity in the
community.”  California hasn’t included a box asking about convictions
on state job applications since 2010, under an executive order
by Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger .  The bill signed by Brown makes that policy a law and
extends it to more than 6,000 local governments. Several cities
and counties in the state, including Berkeley, Oakland,
Richmond,  San Diego  and  San Francisco  already prohibit it.  Background Check  The law also requires state and local agencies to delay a
background check until they determine that the applicant’s
qualifications meet the job requirements. It exempts jobs in
criminal justice or those where a criminal background check is
required by law.  The California law comes on the heels of Brown’s policy to
shift thousands of low level non-violent criminals out of state
prisons into local custody to reduce crowding. Local agencies
are also where rehabilitation programs work to reduce
recidivism.  “Making sure that people who have been convicted of a
crime can come back into society and work productively and pay
restitution is all in the interest of the victim,” said Mai
Fernandez, executive director of the National Center for Victims
of Crime, in  Washington .  The League of California Cities  opposed  the bill saying
cities should be allowed to request criminal history information
in the initial phase of hiring for someone handling money,
sensitive information or required to enter private property
without notice to the owner.  Critics such as the cities group also argued that local
agencies will end up wasting time and limited resources
screening initial applicants for minimum eligibility even though
those with a conviction will be rejected once an applicant’s
criminal history is disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  