-- Canadian Dollar Rises as September Jobs Growth Exceeds Forecast
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-10-11T21:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/canadian-dollar-rises-as-september-jobs-growth-exceeds-forecast.html
Canada’s dollar snappped a four-day
loss against its U.S. counterpart after a report showed jobs
growth last month exceeded forecasts and the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly fell.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, strengthened as
Canada added 11,900 jobs in September and the unemployment rate
fell to 6.9 percent. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
projected a 10,000 job increase and an unchanged  jobless  rate at
7.1 percent, according to the median forecasts. The currency has
fallen this week as politicians in the U.S., Canada’s biggest
trade partner, face a stalemate on agreements to fund the
government and raise the nation’s debt limit.  “The data was fairly positive for Canada today, which has
given some strength to the Canadian dollar,” said Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford , Connecticut-based currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit. “The
main driver for the loonie is still the U.S. fiscal situation.
There has been some momentum there, but the situation remains in
flux.”  The loonie rose 0.5 percent to C$1.0349 at 5 p.m. in
Toronto, paring its weekly loss to 0.5 percent. One Canadian
dollar buys 96.63 U.S. cents.  Bonds Rally  The nation’s benchmark 10-year government yield was little
changed at 2.59 percent. The price of the 1.5 percent securities
maturing in June 2023 lost one cent to C$90.76.  Canada plans to auction C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) of
two-year notes on Oct. 16, according to the  Bank of Canada 
website.  The Bank of Canada will raise rates next year even after a
central banker warned the nation’s growth is falling short of
forecasts, according to a survey of economists that diverges
from market gauges.  The central bank policy rate will climb to 1.25 percent
from 1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2014, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg October Canada Economic survey,
which had 19 responses. The forecast contrasts with trading in
overnight index swaps yesterday that put the odds of a rate
increase in 2014 at less than half.  Central Bank  The central bank may delay raising its policy interest rate
until the first half of 2015, Royal Bank of  Canada ’s capital
markets unit said today.  “There is a non-trivial risk that our current 3Q 2014
policy call may be threatened,” Ian Pollick, RBC economist,
said in a note to clients. An increase in the first half of 2015
“is becoming more realistic,” he said.  Full-time employment rose by 23,400 in September and part-time work fell by 11,500 positions. Private companies added
73,600 workers and public-sector employment fell by 16,300.  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said his country’s
economic growth has been disappointing and is showing gradual
signs of regaining momentum. Gross domestic product must expand
faster than 2.5 percent to reduce the slack in the economy,
Poloz said at a news conference following Group of 20 meetings
in  Washington .  “The overall theme of the Canadian labor market is one of
a slow march higher where the lackluster pace is symbolic of the
economy’s slow-go trajectory,” said  Adrian Miller , director of
fixed income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York. ”We
look for the BOC to remain on the sidelines at least through
fourth quarter 2014 and perhaps even first quarter 2015 before
we see a hike in rates.”  Canadian business optimism over new investments fell to a
four-year low in a central bank survey that also showed improved
predictions about future sales growth.  The balance of opinion for investment intentions declined
to 7 percentage points from 9 in the Bank of Canada’s third-quarter survey of about 100 executives, extending a slide from a
peak of 36 points three years ago. The balance of opinion for
sales growth over the next 12 months rose to 31 percentage
points from 9 points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  