-- Canada Investment Optimism Falls to 4-Yr Low in BOC Poll
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-10-11T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/canada-investment-optimism-falls-to-4-yr-low-in-boc-poll.html
Canadian business optimism over new
investments fell to a four-year low in a central bank survey
that also showed improved predictions about future sales growth.  The  balance  of opinion for investment intentions declined
to 7 percentage points from 9 in the Bank of Canada’s third-quarter survey of about 100 executives, extending a slide from a
peak of 36 points three years ago. The balance of opinion for
sales growth over the next 12 months rose to 31 percentage
points from 9 points.  “Weak demand and uncertainty regarding future demand
continue to weigh on firms’ investment decisions and near-term
capacity planning,” the Ottawa-based bank said in the Business
Outlook Survey taken Aug. 26 to Sept. 19.  Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem last week cut the
central bank’s economic growth forecast for the rest of the year
because of an “elusive” pickup in exports and investment. The
bank’s  policy interest rate  has been 1 percent since September
2010 and may not rise for another year according to a monthly
Bloomberg economist survey released yesterday.  More companies expect inflation to be in the bottom half of
the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target band, the
survey found. About 70 percent of respondents predicted
inflation would be between 1 percent and 2 percent over the next
two years, up from 64 percent in the last survey and the highest
since 2001.  The consumer price  index  rose 1.1 percent in August from a
year earlier,  Statistics Canada  said on Sept. 20.  Credit conditions were little changed in the third quarter,
the central bank’s survey of executives showed. The balance of
opinion, which subtracts the share of executives reporting
easier conditions from those who saw tightening, was zero.
“Most firms report that credit is currently easy or relatively
easy to access, although a small number report firm-specific
difficulties.”  A separate survey of  senior lending officers  had a balance
of opinion of negative 7.3 percentage points, suggesting easier
credit conditions. That measure has shown easing conditions
every quarter since the end of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  