-- Canadian Heavy Oil Gains as Upgraders Ramp Up After Maintenance
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-10-11T19:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/canadian-heavy-oil-gains-as-upgraders-ramp-up-after-maintenance.html
Western Canadian Select heavy oil
gained strength on the  spot market  as upgraders returned from
maintenance.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  said this week it completed work on its
Fort McMurray upgrader, and two similar plants in Alberta and
Saskatchewan are expected to ramp up operations this month after
completing maintenance. Upgraders process heavy oil into light
synthetic crude.  WCS, a heavy crude produced from oil-sands bitumen, gained
50 cents a barrel to a $29 discount to U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate, said Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc. It was the
narrowest discount in more than two weeks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Suncor’s Fort McMurray upgrader is finishing its
downtime,” said Judith Dwarkin, chief energy economist at ITG
Investment Research Inc. in Calgary. “That affects the demand
for heavy.”  WCS prices have been rebounding this week after reaching an
eight-month low against WTI of $34.50 a barrel on Oct. 4, which
was driven by declining U.S. refinery demand during the fall
months, Dwarkin said.  Refineries in PADD 2, or the U.S. Midwest, the major
importers of Canadian output, scaled back  operations  by 7.3
percentage points over the past four weeks to 86.5 percent of
capacity, U.S. Energy Information Administration data show.
Those rates are down from a peak of 95.2 percent in August.  Canadian oil sands production is expected to increase at an
annual rate of about 250,000 barrels a day through the end of
the decade from about 1.8 million barrels now, Altaf Nanji, an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, wrote in a note to
clients today.  Syncrude, a light oil processed from oil-sands bitumen,
gained 10 cents a barrel to a $9.65 discount to WTI, NetEnergy
said. The grade had fallen to a $13.50 discount, the widest in
18 months, on Oct. 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  