-- Chemring Drops as Shutdown Adds to Pound Hurting Earnings
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-11T15:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/chemring-says-profit-cut-on-political-turmoil-pound-move.html
Chemring Group Plc (CHG) , a U.K. supplier
of countermeasures for combat jets, fell the most in 16 years
after saying global political turmoil, currency shifts and
production snags will reduce earnings this year and next.  Chemring  plunged  23 percent, the biggest drop since April
1997, to 220 pence, the lowest price since November. The stock
has fallen 4.2 percent this year, reversing gains that reached
as high as 40 percent in July. Today’s trading volume was almost
18 times the three-month daily average.  Operating profit in the fiscal year ending this month will
be reduced by 8 million pounds ($12.8 million) because of
“quality and production issues” and the dollar’s exchange-rate
movement against the pound, the Fareham, England-based
manufacturer said in a statement today. Political disputes in
the  Middle East  and a budget impasse in the U.S. are preventing
deliveries, cutting earnings further in 2014, it said.  “This is mostly about problems with market conditions in
general,” said  Nick Cunningham , a London-based analyst at
Agency Partners. Unresolved questions over the U.S. government
budget will affect defense companies more broadly, he said.  The lowered forecast is the first for Chief Executive
Officer Mark Papworth, who took over last November after a
change in management following missed targets under his
predecessor,  David Price . The company also spurned a takeover
offer last year from Carlyle Group LP.  Lockheed Hampered  Profit in 2014 “is likely to be less than the anticipated
current year outturn,” owing to “continuing difficult market
conditions,” Chemring said in a statement. The company plans to
release a forecast for next year in November.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and the Sikorsky helicopter division
of  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  are among U.S. military contractors
saying that payments have been delayed or that they expect
postponements as the U.S. government halts business over the
lack of a current budget.  “The full impact of the U.S. government shutdown is not
yet known, but it will impact the October order intake and
deliveries” to the Pentagon, Chemring said. Even though the
U.S. Defense Department is bringing much of its civilian
workforce back to their jobs, Chemring said, operations remain
hampered as some government operations remain closed.  The manufacturer continues “to closely manage cash and
working capital.”  The company also said it booked a countermeasures contract
in the Middle East from a delayed order, enabling it to report
the profit in the fiscal year ending this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  