-- China’s Stocks Rise, Completing Biggest Weekly Gain in Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-11T08:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/china-stock-index-futures-rise-on-u-s-debt-optimism-earnings.html
China’s stocks  rose, sending the
benchmark index to the steepest weekly gain in a month, after
the Shanghai Securities News reported the city may reform state-owned enterprises and auto sales exceeded estimates last month.  Shanghai No. 1 Pharmacy Co. (600833)  rallied 10 percent on
speculation SOE reform would improve profitability. SAIC Motor
Corp.,  China ’s largest carmaker, climbed to a four-month high.
Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co., the biggest wind-turbine maker, also jumped by the daily limit to lead gains for
industrial stocks on prospects for higher shipments.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.7 percent to 2,228.15
at the close, capping a 2.5 percent gain this week. The Chinese
government is under pressure to reform state firms, which the
 World Bank  has said might be a long-term drag on economic
growth. Stocks in China, the largest foreign owner of  U.S.
Treasuries , also joined a rally for global markets on optimism
U.S. lawmakers will lift the debt limit and avoid a default.  “SOE reform is another major investment theme for the
market now as it will improve their profitability by giving
employees stock incentives and introducing outside investors,”
said  Wang Zheng , the Shanghai-based chief investment officer at
Jingxi Investment Management Co., which oversees $120 million.
“The temporary resolution to the U.S. debt ceiling issue has
boosted the risk appetite for equities globally.”  The CSI 300 Index gained 1.6 percent to 2,468.51. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 1.3 percent. The Shanghai
Composite has climbed 14 percent since June 27 as companies
based in the city rose on speculation they will benefit from
deregulation in the Shanghai free-trade zone.  SOE Reform  Trading volumes on the Shanghai index were 6.8 percent
higher than the 30-day average today, according to  data  compiled
Bloomberg. It trades at 8.8 times projected earnings for the
next 12 months, compared with the five-year average of 12.6
times, Bloomberg data showed.  Shanghai No. 1 Pharmacy surged by the daily limit to 9.31
 yuan . Shanghai Maling Aquarius Co., a food manufacturer, also
jumped 10 percent to 11.51 yuan.  Shanghai Shenda Co. (600626) , a maker of
textile products, climbed 10 percent to 6.12 yuan.  The Shanghai government’s reform plans will focus on
decentralizing power, offering stock option incentives and
improving performance evaluation, the Shanghai Securities News
reported today, without saying where it got the information.  More than 25 percent of government-run enterprises are
unprofitable and productivity growth has trailed non-state firms
by about 66 percent the past three decades, the World Bank said
in a February report. State businesses may become a long-term
drag on economic growth, the Washington-based lender said.  Debt Talks  SAIC rose 3.9 percent to 14.31 yuan. The automaker said
sales increased 16 percent last month.  Chongqing Changan
Automobile Co. (000625) , the Chinese partner of Ford Motor Co. and Mazda
Motor Corp., surged 10 percent to 11.79 yuan.  China’s passenger-vehicle sales increased 21 percent to
1.59 million units in September, the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said. That compared with the 1.5
million-unit median estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index, the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 2 percent in
 New York  yesterday.  Discussions between Republican lawmakers and President
 Barack Obama  will continue as they try to seek a “path
forward” on the debt ceiling, according to Republican House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor . Stocks and Treasury bills jumped in
the U.S. trading day after the White House endorsed raising the
limit until Nov. 22 without policy conditions attached.  “The market doesn’t like uncertainties,”  Yi Gang , deputy
governor of China’s central bank, said in  Washington  yesterday.
“They watch this drama very closely.”  Trade Data  Xinjiang Goldwind Science led a rally for industrial
shares, surging 10 percent to 8.57 yuan.  “The market is speculating the company will have higher
shipments in the second half,” Demi Zhu, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by phone yesterday.  Bank of Ningbo Co. paced gains for lenders, rising 2.6
percent to 9.14 yuan. The lender won approval from the China
Securities Regulatory Commission to set up a fund management
firm, according to a statement to the stock exchange.  The customs office is due to release September data on
foreign trade tomorrow. Exports probably increased 5.5 percent
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of 43
economists in a Bloomberg survey, compared with 7.2 percent
growth in August. The statistics bureau will release data on
inflation on Oct. 14 and third-quarter economic growth Oct. 18.  China’s economy  may grow about 7 percent for the
“foreseeable future,” as policy makers rein in the housing
“bubble” and local government debt, Yi said in Washington.  The world’s second-largest economy has picked up in the
third quarter and may expand about 7.5 percent or 7.6 percent
this year, he said during a panel discussion yesterday in
Washington. The  economy  grew 7.7 percent last year, the slowest
since 1999, and compared with an average growth rate of 10.3
percent over the last decade.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  