-- China Ready to Help Achieve Climate ‘Breakthrough,’ Germany Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-10-11T09:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/china-ready-to-help-achieve-climate-breakthrough-germany-says.html
China  and the U.S. are more willing
to act on climate protection, raising the chances for a
“breakthrough” in United Nations-sponsored talks to curb
global warming, German Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  said.  The probability of a breakthrough has increased over the
last few months despite economic setbacks in Europe and  Japan ,
Altmaier said at a conference in Berlin. That’s mainly due to
renewed political momentum in China and the U.S., he said.  “The newly elected Chinese leadership is much more
committed to environmental protection, to renewable energies and
to climate protection than any other Chinese government in the
past,” Altmaier said last night at an energy conference in
Berlin. “I’m very optimistic that we can take China aboard to
achieve an ambitious 2015 international agreement in Paris.”  The comments raise the bar for envoys from more than 190
nations to make progress in negotiating a treaty that would
restrict fossil fuel pollution from 2020 when they meet in
Warsaw next month.  World leaders have agreed to contain temperature rises
since industrialization to 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees
Fahrenheit), and the planet has already warmed by an average
0.85 degree since 1880, according to the UN.  Altmaier said he’s also encouraged by U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s pledge made in Berlin in June that climate protection
“will have a more prominent role in his second term.” Leaders
should use the window of opportunity posed by Obama’s second
term, he said.  “We cannot afford to wait two, three, four more years,”
he said. “There will be no third term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  