-- China Developer to Take Majority Stake in Atlantic Yards
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-11T13:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/china-greenland-to-invest-in-5-billion-new-york-property-deal.html
Greenland Holding Group Co., a
developer building one of  China ’s tallest towers, agreed to buy
a 70 percent stake in New York’s Atlantic Yards, the 22-acre
residential and commercial real estate project in  Brooklyn .  Greenland signed a memorandum of understanding with Forest
City Ratner Cos. to co-develop the project, including
infrastructure and apartment units, the companies said in a
joint statement today. The deal excludes the Barclays Center,
home of the National Basketball Association’s Brooklyn Nets, and
the first housing tower under development.  The transaction is the biggest deal of its kind by a
Chinese developer in the U.S., Greenland said in an e-mailed
statement. China’s property developers are expanding overseas as
the government maintains curbs on housing at home to cool
prices.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest homebuilder listed on the
mainland, said in February it joined a residential real estate
venture in San Francisco.  “The trend for Chinese developers to continue to invest in
the property market abroad will depend on the returns they get
in the first batch of such investments,” Frank Chen, Shanghai-based head of China research at property broker CBRE Group Inc.,
said by phone. “The biggest challenge they face is not knowing
the foreign markets well, so it’s wise to work with local
partners.”  Sharing Costs  Greenland will develop the Atlantic Yards project with
Forest City Ratner and share in the project costs, according to
today’s statement. Forest City Ratner, a unit of Cleveland-based
 Forest City Enterprises Inc. (FCE/A) , would manage day-to-day business.
Financial terms of the transaction weren’t disclosed.  Forest City Enterprises Chief Executive Officer David LaRue
said in a conference call last month that the company was
marketing a partnership in the project to capitalize on its
investment and accelerate development.  “This partnership will allow us to deliver the 6,400 units
of housing, including 2,250 units of affordable housing, to
market more expeditiously, which is important for Brooklyn and
the entire city,” Bruce Ratner, chairman of Forest City Ratner,
said in the statement.  Greenland, a closely held company set up in 1992, said in
July that it’s investing $1 billion in a downtown Los Angeles
project to acquire a stake from California State Teachers’
Retirement System.  “Greenland holds a positive view on the U.S. market,”
Chairman Zhang Yuliang said in the statement today. “The U.S.
economy is recovering. There’s ample amount of liquidity in the
market.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  