-- China September Auto Sales Surge 21% on Japanese Rebound
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-11T08:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/china-s-september-auto-sales-rise-21-on-japanese-brand-rebound.html
China ’s passenger-vehicle sales rose
21 percent in September to an eight-month high, as Japanese
automakers rebounded from the consumer backlash sparked by a
territorial dispute last year.  Wholesale deliveries of cars, multipurpose and sport-utility vehicles climbed to 1.59 million units last month, the
most since the 1.73 million sold in January, the state-backed
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said today. That
compared with the 1.5 million-unit median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Protests erupted across China last September after Japan
moved to purchase a group of disputed islands -- known as
Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China -- from their private
owner. Japanese cars were vandalized and businesses attacked,
and the ensuing slump in demand caused  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
 Honda Motor Co. (7267)  to report their first annual sales declines on
record in the world’s largest vehicle market.  “Last September was the peak of the anti-Japanese
sentiment, so we are coming off a low base,” said  Harry Chen , a
Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. “The
Japanese have improved a lot, but their recovery is still
incomplete.”  Total sales of vehicles, including buses and trucks, gained
20 percent to 1.94 million units last month, the association
said. In the first nine months of the year, 15.9 million
vehicles were delivered, putting sales on track to reach the 20
million units for the full year estimated by the association.  SUV Sales  Sales of SUVs jumped 65 percent to 283,600 units last
month, while deliveries of multipurpose vehicles surged 195
percent to 122,900 units. Sedan deliveries gained 15 percent to
1.07 million vehicles.  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Focus was the best-selling sedan last
month, with Great Wall Motor Co.’s Haval line remaining the
nation’s top-selling SUV.  Japan’s three biggest automakers reported a surge in sales
in China last month. Honda led the rebound as deliveries more
than doubled from a year earlier to the highest in 21 months,
according to company figures. Toyota’s deliveries climbed 63
percent and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s sales, excluding multipurpose
vehicles, rose 83 percent.  Volkswagen, GM  Volkswagen (VOW)  AG, Europe’s largest automaker, outsold  General
Motors Co. (GM)  in China in the first nine months of the year.
Volkswagen, which includes Hong Kong in its China figures,
delivered 2.36 million vehicles for the January-to-September
period, compared with 2.31 million units by GM, according to
statements by the companies.  Ford’s sales in China jumped 61 percent last month to
96,111 vehicles. Volkswagen boosted deliveries of its namesake-branded vehicles by 18 percent to 1.79 million, the company said 
in a statement.  Luxury brands continued to outpace industry sales last
month. Audi, the top-selling luxury brand in China, surged 28
percent due to the popularity of its Q3 and Q5 SUVs.  Daimler AG (DAI) ,
maker of Mercedes-Benz vehicles, and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
each reported a 21 percent gain in sales.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  