-- False Press Release Halts Fingerprint Stock Amid Probe
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-10-11T14:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/cision-investigating-incorrect-release-about-samsung-purchase.html
Fingerprint Cards AB (FINGB) , a Swedish
maker of biometric sensors, plans to request a police probe into
a false press release that said it agreed to be bought by
Samsung Electronics Co. and sent its stock soaring 51 percent.  The shares traded for 17 minutes after the statement was
published by press-release distributor  Cision AB (CSN) , before being
suspended by the Stockholm exchange because of volatility.
Trades on the stock and peer  Precise Biometrics AB (PREC) , which also
surged, after the statement’s publication were canceled.  Fingerprint Cards said it didn’t send the release. Cision
appears to have been deceived by an individual who contacted the
distribution service and pretended to be a Fingerprint
executive, said Magnus Thell, head of Cision in Sweden.  “Obviously, we have been a victim of fraud,” Thell said
in an interview. “We spoke with an individual who posed as the
managing director of Fingerprint Cards and were simply
tricked.”  Cision has filed a police report, he said. The Stockholm-based company’s computer systems weren’t hacked, Thell said.  “We have substantial precautions and procedures in place
but in this case we were tricked,” Thell said.  Fingerprint Cards, based in Gothenburg, Sweden, briefly
added about $200 million in market value after the press release
said  Samsung (005930)  had agreed to a $650 million takeover. Calls to
Fingerprint Cards Chief Executive Officer Johan Carlstroem’s
mobile phone weren’t returned.  Cision Falls  The stock fell 0.5 percent to 52.50 kronor at 4:45 p.m. in
Stockholm. Precise Biometrics, which had risen as much as 43
percent, added 1 percent to 2.11 kronor. Cision  declined  as much
as 7.2 percent, the most in more than five months.  “We cannot comment on any specific details on this
apparent false information that seems to have been released to
the market,” Johan Allstrin, head of the Swedish financial
authority’s market-monitoring division, said in a phone
interview.  Jason Kim, a spokesman for Samsung, said he was unaware of
a deal with Fingerprint Cards and that he would confer with
colleagues. Chenny Kim, a spokeswoman at Samsung, later sent a
text message saying “it’s not true.”  Fingerprint Cards and Precise Biometrics have soared this
year amid predictions that more smartphones will be equipped
with fingerprint-reading technology after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  added such
sensors to its latest iPhone model.  Emulex, Innotrac  Fingerprint Cards isn’t the first company targeted by
hoaxers. In 2010,  General Mills Inc. (GIS) , the maker of Cheerios
cereal, was the victim of a fake press release saying U.S.
President  Barack Obama  had sought an investigation of the
company’s supply chain.  In 2006, PR Newswire said it distributed a false statement
about  Innotrac Corp. (INOC) , a call-center and warehouse services
operator. In 2000,  Emulex Corp. (ELX)  shares plunged after a release-distribution service published a fictitious press release that
said the company reversed a fourth-quarter profit to a loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  