-- Coal 4-Year Low Lures Utilities Ignoring Climate: Energy Markets
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2013-10-11T05:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/coal-4-year-low-lures-utilities-ignoring-climate-energy-markets.html
Coal is poised to become the most-used fuel for power generators through the rest of this decade,
undermining targets for cutting  greenhouse gases  even as prices
rebound from a four-year low.  About 434 gigawatts of coal-power capacity will be added
globally by 2020, compared with 241 gigawatts for gas and 92
gigawatts of nuclear generation, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. Though a Bloomberg survey shows prices may rise
15 percent by 2015, it won’t be enough to stem demand in  Asia 
and  Europe , Singapore-based UOB Kay Hian Ltd. says.  As more than 200 ministers and executives gather in South
 Korea  for next week’s  World Energy Congress , the biggest
economies are facing a resurgence in demand for coal, a fuel
that emits twice as much pollution as natural gas, with
international climate talks looming in Warsaw next month. The
world now has the highest concentrations of greenhouse gases in
at least 800,000 years, according to the  United Nations .  “Many people forgot about coal,” Maria Van der Hoeven,
executive director of the  International Energy Agency , said in
an Oct. 2 interview in Bangkok. “Coal is really emerging as a
fuel of choice because of its abundance and affordability.”  The price of Asian  benchmark  coal at the Australian port of
Newcastle fell to $76.10 a metric ton on Aug. 9, the lowest
since November 2009, and traded at $79.10 on Oct. 4, according
to McCloskey Group Ltd., a U.K.-based researcher. European coal
for 2014 dropped to an all-time low of $81.75 a ton yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Coal Stations  Utilities including  Huaneng Power International Inc. (902)  in
Beijing and  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC)  in New Delhi are among companies in 59
nations  planning to build  1,401 gigawatts of new coal-fired
stations, according to the World Resources Institute.  China  and
 India  account for 76 percent of planned new generation, equal to
the entire current capacity of the U.S., according to the
institute.  Newcastle coal prices will rise to $91 a ton in 2015 and
$95 in 2016, according to the median of analyst forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg Oct. 7.  “Coal prices will be in an upward trend in the long term,
supported by rising demand globally,”  Helen Lau , an analyst
with UOB Kay Hian, said in an Oct. 9 interview. “Coal will
remain economically competitive as a stable source of power.”  Shale Revolution  Coal-fired capacity worldwide will have increased by 285
gigawatts in the five years ending in 2015, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. That’s more than India’s maximum
current output and compares with 111 gigawatts for natural gas
and 20 gigawatts for nuclear power.  New technology that cracks open shale rock has unleashed
record amounts of natural gas in the U.S., freeing up coal for
export to Europe. Columbus, Ohio-based  American Electric Power
Co. (AEP) ,  the largest coal consumer in the U.S., predicts the fuel
will account for less than half its generation capacity in 2016,
down from 60 percent this year.  The boom in U.S. gas production, which helped the nation
surpass  Russia  as the world’s biggest producer, drove futures
prices in New York to a 10-year low of $1.902 per million
British thermal units last year. The fuel, averaging $3.686 per
million Btu this year, will climb above $4 by the end of 2013 as
demand rises, according to  Bank of America  Corp.  The U.S. shale-gas revolution can’t be replicated elsewhere,
according to Van der Hoeven. Geological and logistical
constraints mean China’s output won’t be significant before 2020,
she said.  Congress Attendees  The World Energy Congress, a triennial gathering that
starts Oct. 14 in Daegu,  South Korea , will be attended by
government representatives including Alexander Novak, Russia’s
energy minister, and Jero Wacik, Indonesia’s minister for energy
and mineral resources. Russia holds the world’s second-biggest
gas reserves. Indonesia is the largest coal exporter.  Coal is the source for about three-quarters of capacity
being built in Southeast Asia, where energy demand is forecast
to almost double in the next two decades as coal consumption
triples, the IEA said in an Oct. 2 report.  The 10 members of  Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
will get 49 percent of their power from coal by 2035, up from 31
percent in 2011, while the share from gas will drop to 28
percent from 44 percent, it said.  Coal will be at least 30 percent cheaper than natural gas
for electricity generators in Southeast Asia, assuming a price
of $80 a ton versus gas at $10 per million Btu, the IEA said.  Coal Abundance  “Emerging economies will continue to drive demand growth
in thermal coal for many years to come,”  National Australia
Bank (NAB)  said Oct. 7. “Coal’s abundance and affordability in the
region give the fuel a clear advantage, and price differentials
currently favor coal by a significant margin.”  Indonesia plans to almost double output by 2035, the IEA
said. Australia aims to triple export capacity to 900 million
tons a year, according to the World Resources Institute.  China, the world’s biggest energy user and consumer of coal,
has introduced carbon pricing in seven of its biggest
manufacturing areas to help cut emissions even as it drives
economic growth. It may finally reverse decades of rising
emissions by 2027 if it can use more nuclear and renewable
energy to challenge coal, New Energy Finance projects.  “Across Asia, where coal is so much cheaper than gas,
especially without a carbon price, there’s no market-based
reason for companies to build anything other than coal,” said
William Pearson, the London-based director for global energy and
natural resources at the Eurasia Group. “That’s going to be a
big risk to climate change targets.”  Envoys from about 200 nations will meet next month in
Warsaw to work toward a global agreement by 2015 for emission
reductions by 2020. The UN target is to limit the increase in
the world’s average temperature to 2 degrees celsius (3.6
Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels.  Replacing Nuclear  In Japan, demand for coal is rising as a replacement for
nuclear reactors, closed in the wake of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
disaster of 2011.  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) ’s Ohi No. 3 and No.
4 units were shut for safety checks last month, leaving the
nation without atomic power for the first time since July 2012.  Tokyo Electric, Japan’s biggest power utility by generation
capacity, used 711,000 tons of coal last month, almost quadruple
the 184,000 tons of a year earlier, the company said Oct. 8.  Record-low coal and carbon allowance prices in Europe are
encouraging utilities to burn fuels that pollute more.  Germany ,
the region’s biggest economy, may produce higher greenhouse-gas
emissions this year, following a 1.5 percent gain last year,
according to the DIW economic institute, which advises the
government. That will be the nation’s first back-to-back
increase since at least the 1980s, after  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s decision to shut nuclear plants led utilities to burn
more coal because of lower costs.  Climate Challenge  Utilities led by  RWE AG (RWE)  and EON SE boosted hard coal
imports 25 percent in the first quarter to 10 million tons, the
nation’s Coal Importers Association said.  Utilities in Germany have earned an average 8.4 euros per
megawatt hour of electricity produced from coal this year
compared with a 18.3 euro loss for power from gas, according
Bloomberg Industries data.  “That’s going to be the big challenge for climate,”
Eurasia’s Pearson said. “For China, Korea, Japan, India and
also in Germany, coal looks pretty good over the next decade
just because there’s going to be a clear cost advantage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ; 