-- Congo’s Government Wants 15% Stake of New Mines in Revised Code
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-10-11T09:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/congo-s-government-wants-15-stake-of-new-mines-in-revised-code.html
The  Democratic Republic  of Congo
plans to raise its free stake in new mining projects to 15
percent from 5 percent, said Chantal Bashizi, the vice president
of the commission revising the mining code.  The government has been in a dispute with companies for
more than a year about changing the 2002 regulations,
particularly over a proposal to increase the state’s share in
new mining projects to 35 percent, Bashizi told the iPad mining
conference in the capital Kinshasa yesterday.  “It was among the clauses that angered operators,” she
said. “In the current structure we’ve lowered it from 35
percent to 15 percent.”  Congo’s government is seeking to increase revenue from the
recent expansion of its  mining industry . Mining and oil account
for 32 percent of the country’s economic output, according to
the central bank. The present rules were written at the tail end
of a series of wars that decimated metal production and led to
the sale of majority stakes in some of Congo’s biggest mines to
private companies.  Last year, the Central African nation was the world’s
eighth-largest producer of copper and the biggest producer of
cobalt. Glencore Xstrata Plc, based in Baar, Switzerland,
Phoenix, Arizona-based  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , and
London-based  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC)  were the country’s
biggest copper exporters.  Proposed changes to the code include tripling the royalty
on copper and cobalt to 6 percent, and cutting the amount of
time that contract stability is guaranteed to five years from 10
years, Bashizi said in a separate interview.  Reduced Profitability  “With the new code, profitability could be divided by
three or four,” David Guarnieri, the director of the tax
department at Freeport’s Tenke Fungurume mining project, told
the conference yesterday. “Changing the rules of the game of
the limit of the stability clause will call into question the
economic model at the origin of the decision to invest.”  The government will host a workshop Nov. 15 with companies
and civil society members to discuss the proposed changes. A
report by a consultant from Duncan & Allen, the Washington-based
 law firm , hired by the World Bank to oversee the revision will
be published by Oct. 16, Bashizi said.  The draft code may be sent to parliament for approval in
March, according to the Mines Ministry.  Companies would cede the 15 percent share to the state at
the time their exploration permits are transferred into
exploitation permits, according to the code. The state’s
percentage is a free carry and can’t be diluted.  Australia-based  Tiger Resources Ltd. (TGR)  and MMG Ltd., Jinchuan
Group of China, Canada’s  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  and  Ivanhoe Mines
Ltd. (IVN)  have copper projects in Congo.  Banro Corp. (BAA) ,  Randgold
Resources Ltd. (RRS) , and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  are producing gold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  