-- Corn Futures Fall to Three-Year Low on U.S. Crop Outlook
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-10-11T19:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/corn-trades-near-3-year-low-as-u-s-demand-for-ethanol-may-drop.html
Corn futures fell to a three-year
low and soybeans dropped the most this month on signs of supply
gains in the U.S., the world’s biggest producer. Wheat rose,
capping the fourth straight weekly gain.  Beneficial rain in September boosted corn yields by
allowing plants to mature late in the season and helped soy
plants fill pods with bigger beans,  Macquarie Bank  said in a
report. Yields are as much as 20 bushels an acre higher than
farmers expected for the grain and 10 bushels for the oilseed,
 MaxYield Cooperative  in West Bend,  Iowa , said yesterday.  “Farmers are harvesting yields that are consistently
bigger to much bigger than they were planning,”  Don Roose , the
president of U.S. Commodities Inc. in  West Des Moines , Iowa,
said in a telephone interview. “We have to rebuild demand in
the world markets with lower prices to sell the excess.”  Corn futures for December delivery dropped 1.1 percent to
close at $4.3325 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade, after touching $4.325, the lowest for a most-active
contract since Aug. 31, 2010. Prices are down 38 percent this
year, heading for a record annual slump.  Soybean futures for November delivery slumped 1.6 percent
to $12.6675 a bushel, the biggest drop since Sept. 30. The
oilseed, used to make  animal feed , cooking oil and fuel, fell
for a second week and is down 16 percent since the end of May.  Demand for the crops from makers of ethanol and biodiesel
may shrink if the U.S. government amends a biofuel mandate.  The Environmental Protection Agency is considering scaling
back legal requirements on the use of ethanol next year amid
complaints from refiners that mandates would exceed their
ability to blend it into fuel without putting engines at risk.  “Corn use for ethanol may be 200 million to 250 million
bushels” lower than the current USDA forecast,  Richard Feltes ,
the vice president of research at R.J. O’Brien & Associates in
Chicago, said in a note to clients. The change must be approved
by the Office of Management of Budget and may face a court
challenge by the ethanol industry, he said.  Wheat futures for December delivery rose 1 percent to
$6.9225 a bushel on the CBOT, capping a fourth straight weekly
gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  