-- Crude Falls as IEA Forecasts More North American Output
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-10-11T19:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/crude-falls-as-iea-forecasts-more-north-american-output.html
West Texas Intermediate fell as the
 International Energy Agency  forecast that rising production in
 North America  will help increase non-OPEC output by the most
since the 1970s.  The U.S. benchmark capped a fourth loss in five weeks.
Producers outside the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will raise 2014 output by a near-record 1.7 million
barrels a day, led by the U.S.,  Canada  and  Kazakhstan , the IEA
said in a monthly market report. Brent fell less than WTI as the
IEA cited supply losses in OPEC members  Libya  and  Iraq , widening
the spread to WTI for the sixth time in seven days.  “There is a bit of supply overhang, the IEA report citing
in particular the extraordinary growth in U.S. domestic
output,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “It’s
definitely a bearish element for the market right now.”  WTI for November delivery slid 99 cents, or 1 percent, to
settle at $102.02 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices declined 1.8 percent this week. The volume of all futures
traded was 35 percent above the 100-day average at 2:34 p.m.
November futures ended 4 cents below the December contract.
WTI’s first-month contract had been trading above the second
month since Sept. 23.  Brent for November settlement dropped 52 cents, or 0.5
percent, to end the day at $111.28 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 7.7 percent above the
100-day average. The European benchmark crude’s premium to WTI
widened to $9.26, the most in four months, after reaching $10.01
in intraday trading.  IEA Forecast  The Paris-based IEA boosted its forecast for non-OPEC
production by 300,000 barrels a day from last month’s estimate.
Output will reach 56.4 million next year, it said.  The agency trimmed its forecast for global oil demand
growth in 2014. World fuel consumption will increase by 1.1
million barrels, or 1.2 percent, to 92 million barrels a day.
The expansion in consumption is about 100,000 barrels a day less
than the IEA forecast last month.  U.S. crude production increased to a 24-year high of 7.83
million barrels a day in the week ended Sept. 13, according to
the Energy Information Administration.  “There are expectations that production in the U.S. is
going to continue to grow,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “Supply is
more than ample and that’s kind of weighing on the market. The
Brent-WTI spread is blowing out.”  OPEC Output  OPEC output slumped by 645,000 barrels a day in September
to less than 30 million a day for the first time in almost two
years as labor unrest crippled Libya’s export facilities and
Iraq conducted maintenance at its southern  oil terminal , the
agency said.  Saudi Arabia , the organization’s largest member and
de facto leader, maintained output above 10 million barrels a
day for a third consecutive month, according to the report.  Widespread protests in Libya cut the country’s September
production by an average of 1.2 million barrels a day, the EIA
said in a monthly report on Oct. 8. Output fell to 300,000
barrels a day last month, the least since the same month in
2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts and producers.  The U.S. benchmark may advance next week on optimism that
U.S. lawmakers will reach an agreement to temporarily lift the
debt ceiling, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Shutdown Negotiations  House Republicans  offered a plan to raise the debt limit
and end a partial government shutdown that would require the
president to accept policy conditions attached to a spending
measure, said two congressional aides. President  Barack Obama 
has insisted that he won’t accept conditions for ending the
shutdown, which is in its 11th day.  The EIA said today it will cease operations and furlough
staff at the end of today, stopping publications including the
weekly petroleum inventory report.  “Even though we are not getting the EIA numbers next week,
I think the trend is that we are building inventories,” said
Tariq Zahir, a New York-based commodity fund manager at Tyche
Capital Advisors.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
December was 20.3 percent, little changed from 20.2 percent
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 717,601
contracts as of 2:40 p.m. It totaled 764,384 contracts
yesterday, 30 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.85 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  