-- Storm Batters India as Half a Million People Evacuated
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n ,   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-10-12T18:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/cyclone-phailin-forces-thousands-to-flee-northeast-india.html
Cyclone Phailin, the most powerful
tropical storm  India ’s eastern coast has faced since 1999, made
landfall as heavy rains and winds packing up to 210 kilometers
an hour lashed the region, flooding roads and uprooting trees.  Phailin, Thai for “sapphire,” struck near Gopalpur in
Odisha about 600 kilometers (373 miles) southwest of Kolkata,
L.S. Rathore, director-general of the  India Meteorological
Department  said in a briefing yesterday. The cyclone would
remain a “very severe cyclonic storm” for six hours after
touching the coast, he said.  The government put the military on standby and evacuated
about 550,000 people from their homes in low-lying coastal areas
to public schools and community centers converted into storm
shelters, Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde said. The heavy
rains are likely to flood roads and rail links, cut off power
for weeks, and cause “extensive damage” to the rice crops in
the region,  Shashidhar Reddy, vice chairman of the  National
Disaster Management Authority , said.  “This could well be the biggest evacuation for a cyclone
in India,” Reddy said in an interview.  Phailin is the strongest storm to hit India since a cyclone
with maximum wind speeds of 260 kilometers per hour lashed
Odisha in 1999, killing about 9,000 people, damaging 2 million
houses and destroying crops spread over 1.65 million hectares.  Deadly Storms  Twenty-six of the world’s  35 deadliest  tropical cyclones,
the storms that include hurricanes and typhoons, have occurred
in the Bay of Bengal, according to Jeff Masters, founder of
Weather Underground in Ann Arbor,  Michigan .  The  National Disaster Management Authority  dispatched a
1,500-strong rescue force to Odisha and Andhra Pradesh states,
while the Indian Air Force said it sent two IL-76 airlift teams
and was committing two C-130J Super Hercules planes.  Airlines have changed flight paths on the route between
Mumbai and Bangkok, and between Bangkok and the Middle East, the
Business Standard reported yesterday, citing an air traffic
controller it didn’t identify.  Indigo, India’s biggest domestic carrier by market share,
canceled some flights to and from Bhubaneshwar in Odisha, the
company’s external communications agency said in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday. Ragini Chopra, a spokeswoman
for  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , did not respond to an e-mail.  India’s railways have also canceled or diverted some trains
in the region, the Times Now television network reported.  In Jayapur village, about 40 kilometers from Paradip,
several trees were uprooted, said Hare Krishna Barik, a
supervisor at a construction company.  Swollen Rivers  “We are expecting massive flooding and have purchased
enough rations to last a week,” 57-year-old Barik said in a
telephone interview. “The two rivers near the village have
swollen up and could breach anytime.”  In other parts of Odisha, there were already reports of
casualities before the cyclone hit. Three people were crushed
and killed by falling trees in Odisha, the Press Trust of India
reported, citing unnamed police officials. Five deaths tied to
the cyclone were reported in the state, NDTV channel reported.  Traffic on the state’s highways towards the high-risk areas
has been restricted by the government, according to the news
agency.  “We are prepared for the worst,” Pradipta Kumar
Mohapatra, Odisha’s chief of relief operations, said by phone
from the state capital of Bhubaneswar. The storm was set to
severely affect the Ganjam, Khordha, Puri and Jagatsinghpur
districts of  Odisha  and the Srikakulam district of Andhra
Pradesh.  Rice Crop  India is the world’s largest rice exporter. About 10
percent is produced in Odisha, where up to a fifth of the crop
may be damaged by winds and heavy rain, said David Streit, a
senior forecaster for Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
 Maryland . Most of the crop is maturing or ready for harvest and
the storm might result in a loss of 2 percent of India’s rice,
he said.  “Heavy downpour with heavy wind may cause extensive damage
to the crop,” said Trilochan Mohapatra, director of the Central
Rice Research Institute in Cuttack, Odisha. “Most of the
standing crop was going to be harvested in the next 15 or 20
days.”  While “cane crops in Odisha may be devastated, considering
the size of the India’s production area, it won’t mean much to
the total harvest,” Drew Lerner, the president of  World Weather
Inc.  in Overland Park,  Kansas , said in a telephone interview.  In Andhra Pradesh, employees returned to work at the state-controlled power utility. They were on strike earlier this week
protesting a proposal to split the state.  An estimated 320 million people, or about a quarter of
India’s population, are vulnerable to cyclone-related hazards,
according to the NDMA, which says the storms are four times more
common in the Bay of Bengal east of the nation than in the
Arabian Sea off its west coast.  “What is most important is that lots of lives may have
been saved because they were evacuated,” said Mohapatra,
Odisha’s chief of relief operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  