-- Del Monte Pacific to Buy U.S. Food Brands for $1.68 Billion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-11T08:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/del-monte-pacific-to-pay-1-68-billion-for-u-s-foods-business.html
Del Monte Pacific Ltd. (DELM) , the
Philippines-based pineapple, tomato and fruit juices company,
agreed to buy the consumer food business of closely held U.S.
foodmaker Del Monte Foods Co. for $1.68 billion to expand in the
world’s biggest economy.  The deal between the two unaffiliated companies gives the
Asian firm rights to the Del Monte, Contadina, S&W and College
Inn food brands in the U.S., the San Francisco-based company
said in a statement today. The Philippine company already has
licenses for some of the brands in parts of  Asia .  Del Monte Pacific is seeking to expand into the U.S., where
 consumer spending  rose in August for a fourth consecutive month.
The deal gives it canned fruit, vegetable and broth brands as
part of a business that counts  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  among its
customers. The lines generate annual sales of about $1.8
billion, according to the statement.  “The U.S. was one of few key markets where our company did
not have a direct presence nor have its own brands.” Del Monte
Pacific Chairman Rolando Gapud said in a statement today.  Del Monte Pacific also operates pineapple plantations and
will benefit from expanding in the processed food business in
the U.S., it said in a statement today. It has been a supplier
of processed pineapple to Del Monte Foods.  Emerging Markets  Del Monte Pacific is paying 0.93 times revenue, higher than
the 0.85 average of 14 deals involving canned food companies
over the last decade globally, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and the revenue estimate in today’s statement.  The Singapore-listed company may be overpaying and be
better off investing the amount in  emerging markets , where its
strengths currently are, said Siyi Lim, a Singapore-based
investment analyst at OCBC Investment Research.  “The  U.S. economy  is improving, but the space is quite
crowded, and you should stay with your competitive strengths,”
Lim said. “At the end of the day, you are still selling
consumer staples, and there is a limit as to what consumers can
buy.”  The Del Monte brand, which originated in  California  in
1892, was broken up in the 1990s in a buyout led by New York-based private equity firm  KKR & Co (KKR) , according to a presentation
by the Philippine-based company. This resulted in unaffiliated
Del Monte businesses having the rights to the brands in
respective markets and product categories.  The U.S. company, which is partly owned by KKR, said it was
selling the consumer business to focus on the pet  food industry .  Deal Financing  Del Monte Pacific will finance the acquisition through a
$930 million long-term loan and by issuing new stock in a newly
created unit to run the acquired business, according to the
filing. It has a market capitalization of S$1.2 billion ($930
million), according to data compiled by Bloomberg  Del Monte Pacific’s Philippine-listed shares rose 11
percent to 30 pesos as of the close of trading in  Manila ,
bringing their gain this year to 10 percent, compared with the
12 percent advance on the Philippine Stock Exchange Index. The
Singapore-listed shares rose as much as 11 percent.  The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and
customary closing conditions and expected to close early next
year. Perella Weinberg Partners LP served as lead financial
adviser and Citibank as a financial adviser to  Del Monte 
Pacific.  Morgan Stanley & Co and Centerview Partners are acting as
financial advisers to Del Monte Foods.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  