-- Dimon Says JPMorgan Doing ‘Very Little’ Repurchasing of Shares
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-10-11T14:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/dimon-says-jpmorgan-doing-very-little-repurchasing-of-shares.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which today
reported its first loss under Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, said it has scaled back stock repurchases.  The bank repurchased $739.7 million of shares in the third
quarter, down from $1.17 billion in the three months ended June
30 and $2.58 billion in the first quarter, according to a
 supplemental filing  posted on the New York-based lender’s
website today.  “We’re doing very little stock buyback right now,” Dimon
said today on a conference call.  Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC, said
last month that the lender could be forced to halt its $6
billion repurchase program as fines and penalties on the bank
grow. The third-quarter loss was fueled by a $7.2 billion charge
tied to  litigation  and regulatory probes.  Bank executives were asked today about the possibility of
litigation expenses affecting capital plans submitted to
regulators or altering the pace of share repurchases.  “We don’t expect or believe that there should be any
repercussions, but they’re ultimately up to the regulators’
decisions,” Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake said.  JPMorgan suspended a $15 billion buyback plan last year to
boost capital levels after a bet on credit derivatives in  London 
that ultimately cost the firm more than $6.2 billion. Dimon in
March won conditional Federal Reserve approval for $6 billion in
buybacks. The Fed required the company to “address weaknesses”
in its planning process.  The bank said in July, when making projections on leverage
ratios, that its calculations assumed $6 billion to  $8 billion 
in annual repurchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  