-- Draghi Says Effectiveness of Banks’ Review Depends on Backstops
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-10-11T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/draghi-says-effectiveness-of-banks-review-depends-on-backstops.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said financial backstops need to be in place before
policy makers publish their assessment on the health of the
region’s lenders to ensure confidence in the results.  The effectiveness of the exercise will “depend on the
availability of necessary arrangements for recapitalizing banks,
if and when needed, including through the provision of a public
backstop, if private funds cannot be acquired,” Draghi said in
a statement issued for the International Monetary and Financial
Committee in  Washington  tomorrow. “These arrangements must be
in place before we conclude our assessment.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB is preparing for a review of banks’
balance sheets and subsequent stress tests to identify capital
shortfalls before it assumes supervisory responsibility over the
region’s lenders next year. While lawmakers backed the plan for
a single oversight body on Sept. 12, the final text of a law
hasn’t been published yet. The U.K. has expressed concern about
the impact on British banks.  While the ECB can start practical preparations for its new
tasks, including hiring staff and renting premises, it can take
on supervisory powers no sooner than one year after the final
text of the law is published.  Substantial Adjustment  “We are committed to delivering on our new supervisory
responsibilities by November 2014,” Draghi said. “We also
strongly support the envisaged timeline for the establishment by
the end of 2014 of the single resolution mechanism, which is a
necessary complement to the Single Supervisory Mechanism.”  Draghi, who is attending the annual meeting of the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank , said that
countries sharing the single currency have undertaken
“substantial fiscal adjustment” in the last few years.  “The average fiscal position of the euro-area countries is
much stronger than that of global peers,” he said. The U.S.
government remains shut down as President  Barack Obama  and House
Republican leaders try to negotiate an agreement on increasing
the country’s debt ceiling.  Draghi said economic activity in the 17-nation euro economy
“bottomed out in the first half of the year and is expected to
strengthen gradually in the period ahead.”  Policy makers remain committed to keeping  interest rates 
low for an extended period, remaining “particularly attentive”
to money-market conditions, and considering “all available
instruments” to guard the region’s recovery, he said, echoing
his Oct. 2 policy statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  