-- The UN’s Inexcusable Haiti Policy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-11T14:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/the-un-s-inexcusable-haiti-policy.html
The  United Nations  may not have much
to fear from the  lawsuit filed  this week by relatives of those
killed or sickened in Haiti’s cholera epidemic. The UN and its
representatives, after all, enjoy almost total immunity from
legal claims.  Even if it prevails in  U.S. federal court , however, the
UN’s reputation and credibility will suffer if it continues to
dodge responsibility for an  outbreak  that so far has killed an
estimated 8,200 people and sickened 669,000.  UN officials say the cause of Haiti’s epidemic is unclear.
It’s a bogus claim. Before the outbreak, cholera was last seen
on the island of Hispaniola in 1867. Then, in October 2010, to
help Haiti recover from a powerful earthquake earlier that year,
UN peacekeepers arrived in the town of Meye from  Nepal , where
cholera is endemic. Their base’s haphazard sanitation system
leaked sewage into a nearby tributary to the Artibonite River, a
major source of drinking water. Within days, hospitals
registered cholera cases traced to the tributary. The bacterium
responsible for Haiti’s epidemic proved to be of Nepalese
origin.  It’s true, as the UN points out, that the dearth of clean
water and good sanitation in Haiti facilitated the spread of the
disease. But these vulnerabilities do not absolve the UN of its
responsibility to protect the population from just this sort of
pathogenic assault.  That it did not was negligent. UN officials neither tested
the peacekeepers from Nepal for cholera, despite  an outbreak
there  just before their deployment, nor ensured that their
sewage system was sound, violating a basic principle of aid
organizations that, at the very least, they should do no harm.  By refusing to even hear claims from Haitians affected by
the epidemic, the UN is violating not only the norms of decency
but also  its own rules . Yes, a  1946 treaty  grants the UN
immunity from “legal process”; its representatives are granted
the same for acts committed while discharging their duties. Yet
the convention also mandates that the UN establish mechanisms to
settle disputes to which it is a party.  When it comes to the behavior of UN peacekeepers, that
mechanism --  according to agreements  the UN has signed with 32
host countries, including Haiti -- is supposed to be a three-member standing commission, with one member named by the
government, one by the UN secretary-general and one appointed
jointly. In Haiti -- as well as in those 31 other countries --
the UN has failed to create such a commission.  Thus, those affected by Haiti’s cholera debacle had no
choice but to take their case initially to the UN itself. More
than 5,000 victims of the epidemic  filed a petition  with the UN
a year ago seeking compensation and an apology. The secretary-general’s office replied that the complaint was “not
receivable”  because  it would require “a review of political
and policy matters.”  If the complaint did require such a review, all the better.
But that’s not the purpose of the suit. The 1946 treaty promises
recourse for disputes of a “private law character,” which
includes claims of compensation for personal injury or death.
The UN should accept responsibility for the epidemic, apologize,
and create a compensation fund for families of the dead, the
ailing and the many more who are expected to fall victim to
cholera in  Haiti  over the next decade. It should also
aggressively pursue the estimated  $2 billion still needed  to
improve Hispaniola’s water and sanitation system over the next
10 years.  As far as the lawsuit is concerned, the odds are with the
UN. But in its obstinacy, the UN hampers its ability to promote
accountability, fairness, the rule of law and the amicable
settlement of disputes. Not to mention good hygiene.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 