-- Hedge Fund Closures Can’t Slow Retail-Merger Flurry: Currencies
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-10-11T09:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/hedge-fund-closures-can-t-slow-retail-merger-flurry-currencies.html
FXCM Inc. (FXCM) , the largest retail
currency broker in the U.S., is leading a wave of buyouts and
mergers in this corner of the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market as tougher regulation increases costs.  In the past month, New York-based FXCM bought a 50.1
percent stake in rival Faros Trading LLC and the American retail
accounts of Alpari U.S. LLC. Gain Capital Holdings Inc. acquired
Global Futures & Forex Ltd., Oanda Corp. bought Boston-based
Currensee Global Inc., and  Swissquote Group Holding SA (SQN)  agreed to
purchase competitor MIG Bank for an undisclosed price.  “In a world where regulation is very heavy, essentially
scale is king,” Drew Niv, the chief executive officer of FXCM,
said in a Sept. 30 phone interview from  New York . “The guys
with the biggest scale are going to win that race.”  A drop in currency volatility to levels close to before the
financial crisis makes it more difficult for investors to make
money. FX Concepts LLC, the firm founded by  John Taylor  whose
$12 billion in assets in 2009 made it the world’s largest
currency hedge fund, said this week it will shutter its
investment-management business.  ‘Bad Times’  At the same time, the 2010 Dodd Frank Act requiring firms
that provide  currency trading  for U.S. retail customers to hold
at least $20 million in capital, and changes to the European
Union’s Markets in Financial Instruments Directive is also
boosting costs for dealers, make mergers more appealing.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index fell to
as low as 8.49 percent today, from as high as 12 percent in
June. The gauge has been below its five-year average of 12.2
percent since the beginning of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “Low volatility is the final nail in the coffin for a lot
of people,” said Niv. “They’ll struggle through bad times in
the hope that in volatile times they’ll make money anyway. But
if they see extended periods of low volatility, it’s not worth
being in the business without massive scale.”  Foreign-exchange trading for retail customers took off in
the mid-1990s, with international banks offering products such
as dbFX, which was operated by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the world’s
largest currency trader. The wider availability of the Internet
toward the end of the decade spawned a generation of smaller
firms acting as middlemen with banks for retail clients.  Takeover Opportunities  “For a lot of smaller brokers, it becomes very expensive
to do business, especially in the U.S. market,” Tim Smart, the
chief financial officer of Oanda, which announced its buyout of
Currensee Global last month, said in a Sept. 30 phone interview
from Toronto. “The regulators are becoming very restrictive in
terms of compliance matters. That provides an opportunity for
players such as Oanda.”  Foreign-exchange returns trailed those of stocks last
quarter by the most since the start of 2012.  Deutsche Bank’s Currency Returns Index, based on investment
strategies including carry, momentum and valuation trades, rose
1.1 percent, compared with a gain of 7.7 percent for the MSCI
World Index of stocks. That’s the biggest shortfall since an
11.6 percentage-point gap in the first quarter of 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  FX Concepts  “FX as an asset-class business has been difficult this
year,” Robert Savage, the chief strategist at FX Concepts,
whose assets have shriveled to $661 million, said earlier this
week. “Assets at the firm have dropped to levels that can no
longer sustain the business,” according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  With the  Bank for International Settlements  estimating that
retail trading has grown to 3.5 percent of the foreign-exchange
market, firms are concerned stricter regulation is on the way.  Such rules would largely be part of a broader response to
the deepest financial crisis since the Great Depression, though
they’re also a legacy of a series of failures among retail
brokers that lost mom-and-pop clients millions of dollars.  WorldSpreads Group Plc, a U.K. brokerage and spread-betting
firm, collapsed last year, resulting in losses that may be as
much as 65 percent for customers, according to administrator
KPMG LLP. The London-based company suspended trading in its
shares in March 2012 because of “financial irregularities,”
and later that month announced a shortfall in client funds of 13
million pounds ($21 million).  Quitting Retail  As well as Dodd Frank and the Markets in Financial
Instruments Directive, or Mifid, brokers face the EU’s Capital
Requirements Directives IV, which is due to be applied starting
in January and increases liquidity and  reserve requirements .  Currency traders are seeking an exemption from a proposed
financial-transactions tax in 11 EU countries which they say
would reduce liquidity and push up costs.  Alpari , whose U.S. arm was established in 2006, said Sept.
23 it’s withdrawing from retail foreign-exchange in America to
focus solely on institutional trading. Chief Executive Officer
Jermaine Harmon said the cost of complying with the reporting
and capital requirements of U.S. regulators has made the retail
side of the business untenable.  “The cost of actually doing business in this regulatory
environment is very prohibitive,” Harmon said in a phone
interview from New York on Oct. 8. “Unless you’re one of the
larger players, like Gain or FXCM where you have operational
efficiencies because you’re so large, it really doesn’t make
sense to stay in this space.”  Trades Surge  FXCM estimates that almost 10 percent of its staff are
devoted to compliance. It says it carried out an average of
411,498 retail customer trades a day in August, worth $14
billion, up 19 percent from the same period last year. FXCM
closed at $19.76 on Aug. 29 and Sept. 27, the  highest  since its
stock was offered in December 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Gain Capital (GCAP) , which rebuffed a takeover bid from FXCM in
April and went on to take over Global Futures & Forex last
month, surged to a record $14.31 on Sept. 25, from $4.09 at the
end of last year. The Bedminster, New Jersey-based firm says it
had average daily over-the-counter retail trading of $5.6
billion and held customer assets of $485.9 million in August.  Brokers can also make money by allowing international banks
-- whose mainstream currency trading units aren’t available to
retail clients -- to use their infrastructure under the lender’s
own branding. These white-label partnerships get their name from
the vinyl records with blank labels that publishers distributed
to anonymously test listeners’ responses.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  used an FXCM platform to create Barclays
Margin FX last year. Clients to this service on average deposit
three times what an FXCM customer will put in their account,
Paul Inkster, the head of product at Barclays Stockbrokers in
 London , said in March.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  based its Margin FX
offering in  Hong Kong  on an Oanda product.  “It’s something that, for a certain segment of clients, is
very sought after,” James Carter, the head of retail foreign-exchange business development at HSBC, said in a phone interview
from Hong Kong. “It’s a very large part of the FX spot volume
every day. There’s a lot of incremental volume from this
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  