-- Media Companies Ask Supreme Court to Rule on Legality of Aereo
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-10-11T23:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/media-companies-ask-supreme-court-to-rule-on-legality-of-aereo.html
The biggest U.S. media companies
asked the U.S. Supreme Court to rule Aereo Inc., which provides
broadcast signals to online viewers, is an illegal operation.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , 21st Century Fox Inc.,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBCUniversal,  CBS Corp. (CBS) , Univision Communications Inc., the
Public Broadcasting Service and station WNET, and Tribune Co.-
owned New York station WPIX filed the petition today with the
court after litigation in lower courts failed to stop Aereo.  Aereo, backed by  Barry Diller , threatens $3 billion in fees
that broadcast station owners will receive this year from pay-TV
systems to provide signals to subscribers. Aereo uses thousands
of small antennas to capture free over-the-air signals and
transmits those to paying subscribers over the Internet. If
allowed, pay-TV systems could offer their own work-around to
avoid paying so-called retransmission fees.  “Today’s filing underscores our resolve to see justice
done,” Fox spokesman Dan Berger said in an e-mailed statement.
“Make no mistake, Aereo is stealing our broadcast signal.”  Virginia Lam, a spokeswoman for New York-based Aereo, said
today in an e-mail that the company will respond to the Supreme
Court petition “in due course.”  Chase Carey , president and chief operating officer of New
York-based Fox, said earlier this year that the company would
convert its Fox TV network into a cable channel and cease
broadcasting if U.S. courts permit Aereo to continue taking its
signals without compensation.  Leslie Moonves , CBS’s chief
executive officer, and  Haim Saban , chairman of Univision, have
said they would follow Fox off the air if necessary.  Retransmission Fees  Broadcast stations will collect $3.02 billion in
retransmission fees from pay-TV systems this year, doubling to
$6.05 billion by 2018, according to estimates by Bloomberg
Industries.  Federal judges in Boston and New York so far have permitted
Aereo to operate during legal challenges. Nathaniel Gorton, a
U.S. district judge in Boston, wrote earlier this week that the
plaintiffs hadn’t “demonstrated a sufficient likelihood of
success on the merits nor the requisite irreparable harm” to
justify an injunction.  The cases in New York are American Broadcasting Cos. v.
Aereo Inc., 12-cv-01540, WNET v. Aereo Inc., 12-cv-01543, and
Aereo Inc. v. CBS Broadcasting Inc., 13-cv-03013, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The case in
Boston is Hearst Stations Inc. v. Aereo Inc., 13-cv-11649, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  