-- Emerging Stocks Advance as Infosys Paces Technology Rally
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-10-11T20:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/emerging-stocks-rise-to-3-week-high-on-u-s-debt-talks-optimism.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced to a
four-month high, led by technology companies, after  Infosys (INFO)  Ltd.
raised its revenue forecast while optimism grew that U.S.
lawmakers are moving toward avoiding a nation’s default.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.9 percent to
1,023.21, extending its advance for the week to 1.5 percent.
Infosys surged to the highest in 30 months in Mumbai. The
benchmark gauge for Chinese stocks jumped 1.7 percent after the
Shanghai Securities News reported the city may reform state-owned enterprises, while Vale SA led gains in  Brazil ’s Ibovespa.
Indonesia’s rupiah had its best week since January 2012.  Stocks in developing nations extended a two-day advance to
1.7 percent on expectations President  Barack Obama  and House
Republican leaders are moving toward a deal to extend the
nation’s borrowing authority as they remained at odds over terms
for ending the partial government shutdown.  House Republicans 
offered a plan to raise the U.S. debt limit that would require
the president to accept policy conditions attached to a spending
measure, according to two congressional aides.  “This is a relief rally related to the news from the U.S.
that we could be close to a temporary extension for the debt
ceiling,”  Michael Wang , an emerging-markets strategist at Amiya
Capital LLP in London, said by e-mail. “It could continue next
week if we get further signs that we are close to an agreement
between the White House and republicans.”  Technology Rally  All  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained
today as a measure of technology shares surged to a 13-year
high. The benchmark gauge for developing nations has dropped 3
percent this year to trade at 10.7 times projected earnings,
compared with the  valuation  of 13.9 for the MSCI World Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund rose 0.4 percent to $42.83. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
decreased 5 percent to 23.73.  Brazil’s Ibovespa rose for a third day amid signs of growth
in  China , the Latin American country’s top trading partner. Vale
SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, climbed the most in
one month.  Russian stocks dropped from the highest since February as
crude oil retreated and OAO Magnit, Russia’s largest retailer,
slumped. TVN SA, Poland’s second-biggest television network,
jumped to a two-year high as Deutsche Bank AG recommended buying
its shares, citing prospects for a rebound in the domestic ad
market.  India, China  India ’s S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  rallied 1.3 percent to a three-week
high as Infosys, which has the second-highest weighting in the
gauge, surged 4.7 percent.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,  HCL
Technologies Ltd. (HCLT)  and Tata Motors Ltd. climbed to a record.
 ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  rallied 5.2 percent. The rupee rose to the
highest level in almost two months.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  capped the steepest weekly
gain in a month.  Shanghai No. 1 Pharmacy Co. (600833)  rallied 10 percent.
SAIC Motor Corp., China’s largest carmaker, climbed to a four-month high. The economy may grow about 7 percent for the
“foreseeable future,” as policy makers rein in the housing
“bubble” and local government debt, said Deputy Central Bank
Governor Yi Gang.  The rupiah rose 1.1 percent today, the most since Sept. 19,
to 11,368 per dollar as of 4:03 p.m. in Jakarta, prices from
local banks show. That extended its weekly advance to 1.4
percent, the biggest since the five days ended Jan. 20, 2012.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 322 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in  London  at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  