-- Let the Market, Not the Government, Punish the Redskins
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-10-11T01:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/let-the-market-not-the-government-punish-the-redskins.html
You might have missed  the news  that
Nominet, the domain name registry for the U.K., is considering a
ban on offensive terms. This comes on the heels of the  U.K.’s
plan  to filter out sites the government deems objectionable,
such as those featuring pornography, discussion of suicide or
(my favorite) instructions on how to circumvent parental
Internet controls.  In the U.S., Internet domain names are largely unpoliced,
except to avoid infringement of intellectual property. For some
site owners, choosing an offensive name seems to have a peculiar
appeal. Many others are selected  by accident . And in the
libertarian ethos of the technology world, both groups are
generally left to their choices. The offended can always avoid
the troubling sites.  But the possibility that the U.K. might decide to restrict
offensive domain names mirrors a hoary and outdated provision of
U.S. law -- to wit, the power of the Patent and Trademark Office
to deny registration to marks because they are deemed
“immoral” or “scandalous.” Thus a domain name with several
meanings may be denied registration as a trademark when, in  the
words of  a federal appellate court, “one of its meanings is
clearly vulgar.” So an entrepreneur can face the fascinating
position of having a clearly permissible domain name that
constitutes a clearly impermissible federal trademark.  Rejected Names  The authority to refuse registration for scandalous marks
has been used to reject names from “Madonna” (for wine) to
“Pussy” (for  nonalcoholic beverages ). At the moment, the rule
is in the news because it forms the basis  for the effort  by
American Indian activists to cancel the registration of the
trademarks for the Washington Redskins football team.  Occasionally the marks in question are so vulgar that no
reasonable person would imagine any other purpose but to draw
attention through offense. (Some are so offensive that I can’t
mention them here.) The patent office often refers to these
marks as “scandalous per se.”  You might reasonably object to any official recognition of
such vulgarity. But the relevant question isn’t whether it’s
wrong to choose offensive trademarks. The question is whether
the right answer is to set up a federal agency as the arbiter of
offensiveness.  When I teach this material in my intellectual property
course, the students are torn. On the one hand, they sympathize
with, for example, the efforts against the use of the term
Redskins. On the other hand, they are rightly uneasy at the idea
that the government gets to decide what’s immoral or scandalous.  The ban on registration of immoral and scandalous marks has
been part of federal law for more than a century, and was
preserved when federal trademark protections were strengthened
in 1946, in that tumultuous decade after World War II, when
concern about immoral influences pervaded culture. A few years
later, popular pressure would force publishers to enforce the
Comic Books Code, which for decades banned graphic violence, any
hint of sex and stories in which the good guys were seen smoking
or drinking. This was the era when the words “under God” were
added to the Pledge of Allegiance. Television depicted married
couples in twin beds.  In such an era, enacting a federal trademark law without
the ban on immoral and scandalous matter -- a ban that has been
upheld against First Amendment challenges -- would have been
unthinkable. Since then, our view of the regulation of morality
has grown less communitarian and more libertarian, especially
online. Thus the outbreak of fury across the Internet at the
direction in which the U.K. seems to be moving.  The statute leaves the U.S. patent office with what one
commentator has called “almost unbridled agency discretion,”
which academic critics have long charged is exercised for
political motives. One marker of how the regulators are buffeted
by the prevailing winds is the  back-and-forth  on whether the
mark “Dykes on Bikes” was offensive.  Accepted Vulgarity  The extent to which the predilections of the examiners and
the judges play a role may be seen in their refusal of the
registration of “Madonna” for wine: “The  Virgin Mary  stands
as the highest example of the purity of womanhood, and the
entire Christian world pays homage to her as such.”  That
decision  was handed down in 1938. But tastes change; so do
predilections; and so do judgments about scandalousness. Some
decades later, the singer Madonna would obtain federal
registration of her name in connection with the provision of
entertainment services.  The unpredictability and confusion strongly suggest that
the Patent and Trademark Office should get out of the business
of determining what is and isn’t offensive. There is no hope of
settling on a precise standard. Even if there were, one man’s
vulgarity  would still be  another man’s lyric.  Would the abandonment of a federal regulatory role mean a
sudden rush to market of vulgar and offensive trademarks? Maybe
so -- we live after all in a time when vulgarity, for no obvious
reason, is considered to be hip. In the online world, offensive
spoofs on corporate names are common, and though some companies
seem intent on  buying up  every raunchy variant of their
trademarks, the offensive imagination is endlessly inventive.
The problems, nevertheless, are better solved without resort to
regulation.  Take the case of the Redskins. Even should the complainants
succeed in overturning the trademark, the club can go on using
the name but with reduced federal protection. Eventually, market
forces -- economic and political -- may press the team in a
different direction. When prominent sportswriters decide not to
use the name of the team any longer, and even the U.S. president
muses that the team should consider a change, one can sense the
turning of history’s wheel. On the other hand, Daniel Snyder,
the team’s principal owner, has offered a  spirited defense .  Which side will prevail? Better to take such problems out
of the hands of the federal bureaucracy and leave them to the
court of public opinion.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” Follow him on
Twitter at  @StepCarter .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 