-- Europe Stocks Post Weekly Gain Amid U.S. Debt-Deal Signs
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-10-11T16:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/europe-stocks-post-weekly-gain-amid-u-s-debt-deal-signs.html
European stocks  posted a weekly
gain, snapping two weeks of losses, as concern over a potential
default by the U.S government faded and the nomination of  Janet
Yellen  as the next Federal Reserve chairman signaled the
continuation of stimulus.  Celesio AG surged 19 percent as McKesson Corp. was said to
be in talks to buy a majority stake in the drug wholesaler.
Persimmon Plc and  Taylor Wimpey Plc  led house builders higher as
British property prices surged to an 11-year high and Goldman
Sachs Groups Inc. predicted further growth. TGS Nopec
Geophysical Co. slumped 16 percent after reducing its sales
forecast because of delays in getting permits for new surveys.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index added 0.6 percent to 311.61 this
week, after slipping 1.4 percent in the previous two weeks. The
gauge  has rallied  11 percent so far in 2013 as the euro area
emerged from a recession and central banks maintained stimulus
measures to support the global economy.  “Many investors believe that a solution to the U.S. debt
problem will be found, even if just a temporary one,” said Yves Maillot, who manages 18.5 billion euros ($25 billion) as head of
European equities at Natixis Asset Management in Paris. “If
President Obama is happy with postponing a permanent decision
until November, that would be enough for now. Central bank
policy will remain easy and Yellen’s nomination helps with
certainty in this respect.”  National benchmark indexes advanced in 13 of the 18 western
European markets this week.  Germany ’s DAX increased 1 percent to
a record, while the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  added 0.3 percent.  France ’s
CAC 40 rose 1.2 percent.  Debt Ceiling  The Stoxx 600 lost 1.5 percent in the first three days of
the week as a partial shutdown of the U.S. government continued.
President  Barack Obama  refused to negotiate over preconditions
for the  House of Representatives  to authorize  government
spending  and an increase in the $16.7 trillion borrowing limit.  Obama warned the world’s biggest economy would slide into a
recession if lawmakers failed to raise the ceiling. Without
Congressional action, the U.S. would exhaust its borrowing
authority by Oct. 17, according to the Treasury Department.  Stocks reversed losses as signs of a temporary resolution
to the fiscal impasse emerged later in the week when  House
Republicans  proposed a short-term increase to the debt ceiling
that would buy the government time until Nov. 22 to conclude a
longer agreement.  Stimulus Architect  Obama on Oct. 9 nominated Fed Vice Chairman Yellen, 67, as
the central bank’s next chairman to succeed  Ben Bernanke , whose
term ends on Jan. 31. Yellen is one of the key architects of the
Fed’s unprecedented stimulus program, which it unexpectedly
refrained from paring last month.  Investors also turned their attention to corporate earnings
as the shutdown delayed the release of some U.S. economic data.
Alcoa Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co . all
posted  results  that exceeded analysts’ estimates as they kicked
off the first week of the U.S. quarterly reporting season.  Celesio jumped 19 percent, its biggest weekly rally since
at least 1996. McKesson, the largest U.S. drug distributor, may
acquire a majority stake the German company, the person said.
The offer may be valued at almost 22 euros a share for majority
shareholder Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH’s stake in the company, Dow
Jones reported, citing unnamed people.  Property Developers  A gauge of British  builders  and household-goods companies
rallied 2.7 percent. A home-price gauge from the  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors increased last month to 54,
the highest since June 2002, a report based on a poll of
property surveyors showed.  Persimmon jumped 11 percent. Goldman Sachs said the stock
may gain 70 percent within six months as it benefits from a
housing recovery outside  London . Taylor Wimpey rose 8.9 percent
as Goldman added the company to its “conviction buy” list.  A measure of banks posted the biggest increase among the 19
industry groups on the Stoxx 600 this week. Portuguese lender
Banco Espirito Santo SA soared 19 percent this week. The stock
has advanced for nine days, its longest winning streak in eight
years.  Whitbread Plc climbed 8.4 percent as brokerages from Oriel
Securities Ltd. to Citigroup Inc. increased their ratings on the
company. Oriel cited an improvement in the U.K. hotel market,
while Citigroup said rebounding economic sentiment in Europe
will lead to earnings upgrades.  TGS, a Norwegian surveyor of oil and gas fields, slumped 16
percent. Sales for the full year will probably not exceed $870
million, the company said. That’s down from a previous forecast
for revenue in the range between $920 million and $1 billion.  Delhaize Group fell 7.5 percent after saying Stefan Descheemaeker will step down as Chief Executive Officer for
Europe at the end of the month. Chief Financial Officer Pierre
Bouchut may also leave the Belgian retailer for  Veolia
Environnement , according to a Les Echos report. The French
newspaper did not say where it got the information.  Croda International Plc also lost 7.5 percent. The world’s
second-largest maker of cosmetics ingredients was cut to hold
from buy at Liberum Capital Ltd., which cited high valuation.
Before the rating change, the stock traded at 19.5 times its
projected earnings, compared with the five-year average of 15.3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  