-- Europe Risks Energy Crisis From Green Subsidies, CEOs Say
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a ,   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-10-11T13:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/europe-risks-energy-crisis-from-green-subsidies-ceos-say.html
The heads of 10 of  Europe ’s biggest
utilities called on the European Union to overhaul its energy
and climate policies and curb “Robin Hood” subsidies that sap
the region’s competitiveness.  The companies, which include  Germany ’s EON SE,  RWE AG (RWE) , and
 France ’s  GDF Suez (GSZ)  and represent half the region’s generation
capacity, warned that current policies are discouraging
investors and steering Europe towards an energy crisis.  “In the EU, companies pay three times the price of gas in
America, twice the price of power,”  Eni SpA (ENI)  Chief Executive
Officer Paolo Scaroni said at a press conference in Brussels
today. “How can we dream of an industrial renaissance with such
a differential?”  Enel SpA (ENEL)  Chief Executive Officer  Fulvio Conti  called for an
end to “Robin Hood” taxes and aid. “I’d rather see the
Sheriff of Nottingham for most of the legislation. Let’s restore
normal and eliminate state intervention and subsidies.”  The EU started a debate in March on a new set of climate
and energy rules as the 28-nation bloc seeks to ensure security
of supply and cut greenhouse gases. A framework for the decade
to 2030 is needed to give investors legal certainty, spur
innovation and prepare for a global climate deal, the European
Commission said in a consultation paper at the time.  At the same time, the EU is considering options to overhaul
the 53 billion-euro ($72 billion) carbon market after emission-permit prices slumped to a low of 2.46 euros in April amid a
record glut of permits.  In addition to broader reforms in coming years, the
emissions-trading system needs a short-term fix, GDF CEO Gerard Mestrallet said. “Without a carbon signal, we will not have any
visibility, and we will not be in a position to invest.”  Carbon Collapse  The collapse of the carbon price has made coal, the
dirtiest source of power, also one of the cheapest. The switch
to coal and requirements to buy renewable power have sapped the
profitability of natural-gas-fired plants, leading to the
widespread shutdown of combined-cycle gas turbine plants, which
are among the cleanest.  Fifty-one gigawatts of the bloc’s electricity capacity is
mothballed, equivalent to the combined capacity of  Belgium , the
Czech Republic and  Portugal , the utilities said in a brochure
given to reporters today.  Energy consumers should be billed only for energy, said EON
CEO Johannes Teyssen who also is president of the Eurelectric
industry lobby. At present European consumers help pay for
subsidies to promote renewable-power generation through larger
energy bills.  Bigger Bills  “More than 50 percent of the bill European consumers are
paying today has nothing to do with power generation and
networks, and that’s because of political decisions,” said
Iberdrola’s Ignacio Galan. “That has already created a lot of
distortions.”  Energy bills rose 17 percent in four years for domestic
consumers and 21 percent for industrial consumers, the utilities
said today in the brochure.  European Union leaders in May urged faster integration of
the bloc’s power and gas markets as a way to lower costs after
the U.S. shale-gas revolution widened the EU’s cost gap with its
largest trading partner.  If the EU becomes a fully integrated market, it could save
as much as 35 billion euros a year in electricity costs in 2015
compared with 2012, according to the European Commission.  The EU should speed up the integration and improve the
regulations that affect power prices, EON’s Teyssen said.
“Access charges to the electricity system should only reflect
costs directly related to transport and distribution of energy,
and not as a nice hiding place for other charges.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  