-- Mexico Peso Rises to Two-Week High on U.S. Budget Deal Prospect
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-10-11T15:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/mexico-peso-rises-to-two-week-high-on-u-s-budget-deal-prospect.html
Mexico ’s peso climbed to a two-week
high on speculation U.S. politicians will agree to raise the
debt ceiling, easing concern that their budget impasse will
stall the Latin American nation’s biggest export market.  The currency gained 0.2 percent to 13.0707 per U.S. dollar
at 10:22 a.m. in Mexico City, the strongest level on a closing
basis since Sept. 26. The peso is up 0.1 percent this week.  “If concern eases about what’s happening with the U.S.
government, this will be positive for the peso,”  Ramon Cordova ,
a trader at Banco Base SA, said in a telephone interview from
San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico.  The peso has declined 2.1 percent in the past three months,
the worst performance among major dollar counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg, amid signs of economic weakness.  The International Monetary Fund cut its 2013 growth
forecasts for Mexico this week to 1.2 percent from 2.9 percent
in the previous report. That is below the central bank’s outlook
for 2 percent to 3 percent growth for 2013. Growth will
accelerate to 3 percent next year, the IMF forecast.  Industrial production  fell 0.7 percent in the 12 months
through August, the national statistics agency reported today.
The median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for an
increase of 0.1 percent.  In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  held talks with House
Republicans yesterday, fueling speculation that they will agree
to extend the nation’s borrowing authority while remaining at
odds over terms for ending the partial government shutdown.
Mexico sends 80 percent of its exports to its northern neighbor.  Yields on Mexico’s peso bonds due in December 2024 fell
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.89 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yields have
declined four basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  