-- Federal Workers Stretch Last Paycheck Until Shutdown Ends
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/federal-workers-stretch-last-paycheck-until-shutdown-ends.html
John DiTroia has been guiding planes
through Tampa International Airport since the government
shutdown began, even though he’s not getting paid and his three-year-old son was recently diagnosed with leukemia.  DiTroia, who had taken leave to be with the boy, raced back
to work on Oct. 2 when he was told he might not qualify for back
pay if he wasn’t at his station. His wife has already used all
her paid leave to deal with family issues.  “I’m used to having two incomes,” DiTroia, 33, said.
“Right now, I have zero. I’m watching every dollar that goes
out.”  Today, DiTroia will be among federal workers who’ll get
their last paycheck -- a partial one -- until the funding
impasse between President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Republicans that began on Oct. 1 is resolved.  For the hundreds of thousands of workers serving the U.S.
government, the nation’s largest  employer , payday will provide
an economic reminder of Washington’s political paralysis. The
average federal employee earned an annual salary of $76,353 in
2012, and the lost income is exerting a drag on the economy as
well as forcing employees who live paycheck-to-paycheck to
figure out how to cover their bills until the shutdown ends.  Held ‘Hostage’  “They’re holding us all hostage,” said Rosamond Harris, a
U.S. Census Bureau worker, referring to Congress. “It’s
unconscionable how people can sit there and play with other
people’s lives.”  The shutdown and failure to pay workers is draining an
average of $160 million a day from the $15.7 trillion economy,
according to analysts in Lexington,  Massachusetts , for IHS Inc.,
a global market-research firm.  The impact is particularly evident in the Washington
metropolitan area. Stephen Fuller, the director of the Center
for Regional Analysis at Fairfax, Virginia-based George Mason
University, estimates that the loss of pay is enough to cut
about $50 million a day from consumer spending in the region.  “It’s now really going to be hitting home,” said Daraius
Irani, the executive director of the Regional Economic Studies
Institute at Towson University outside Baltimore,  Maryland .
“The longer this goes on, the worse it is going to be for
workers -- and for our economy.”  Retroactive Payment  The House of Representatives has passed a bill to provide
retroactive pay to U.S. workers caught in the impasse, once it
is resolved. The measure, which is pending in the Senate, has
assured some workers that the pain will be temporary. That’s not
much comfort to some.  Harris, 46, who helps run employee background checks at the
census bureau, said her next paycheck will be about half the
$1,031 she typically receives. The checks cover a week of work
and a day before the shutdown began.  She has to decide how to pay her car loan and credit card
bills, which are due next week. She has already canceled a
planned check up with the doctor who treated her for cancer last
year, to save the $120 it would cost her.  “They say they are going to pay you back -- but the damage
is already done,” she said.  Almost two weeks into the shutdown, half of the 670,000
members of American Federation of Government Employees have been
put on unpaid leave, while the other half are working without
pay, J. David Cox, national president of the Washington-based
union, said in a statement.  Cutting Everything  Stephen Ferrara, a Federal Aviation Administration
inspector, said he’s stopped going out to dinner and cut
spending on everything except necessities. He oversees two
flight schools, air-taxi operators and private aviation from the
Farmingdale, New York, Flight Standards Office.  “I’ve paid bills for 35 years and I’ve never had to deal
with this,” Ferrara said. “It’s disconcerting.”  While some spending will resume when workers get paid, much
like it does after a blizzard, small businesses such as
restaurants won’t easily recover, Fuller said.  “For some of those businesses, they can’t make up sales
that didn’t happen yesterday tomorrow,” he said. “There are
consequences and they cascade over time the longer this
continues.”  Holiday Risk  At  Labyrinth Games & Puzzles  in  Washington ’s Capitol Hill
neighborhood, owner Kathleen Donohue, 43, said sales last week
were about a third less than she expected, and she’s concerned
that a lingering fiscal crisis could hurt holiday shopping.  “People just don’t want to spend any money,” she said.
“We were hoping that when they said that federal workers would
get repaid it would get better. But there are still tons of
contractors who aren’t getting paid at all.”  Despite the shutdown, DiTroia, the Florida air-traffic
controller, took off a day this week to be with his son when he
received chemotherapy. He’s not sure he’ll get back pay for that
-- or for the two hours he took off another day to take the boy
to the hospital.  “I’m just upset I had to make the decision,” he said.
“That should not be happening. I should be able to use my sick
leave or my annual leave and be there with my son.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 