-- Fischer Says Europe, Not U.S., Is Biggest Risk to Global Economy
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-10-11T18:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/fischer-says-europe-not-u-s-is-biggest-risk-to-global-economy.html
Europe remains the biggest risk to
the global economy even as the fiscal gridlock in  Washington  and
ambiguity about the direction of U.S. monetary policy have taken
center stage, according to Stanley Fischer, the former governor
of the Bank of Isreal.  “I think that the U.S. will get through both these
problems, possibly quite quickly, and that the European issues
still need to be resolved,” Fischer, now a distinguished
visiting fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, said in an
interview with Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Television. The situation
in Europe is “very complicated,” he said.  The inability of the Obama administration and Congress to
reach a compromise on a budget for the fiscal year that began on
Oct. 1 led to the first government shutdown in 17 years, and the
threat remains that, by the end of next week, the U.S. will
exhaust ways to remain below its borrowing limit. Federal
Reserve officials also surprised investors at their meeting last
month by refraining from scaling back bond purchases.  “This is a remarkable period in that both monetary policy
and fiscal policy in the United States are at the center of
uncertainty in the world, and about the world economy, and that
is an extraordinary situation,” Fischer said. “This was
usually the country you could rely on.”  The partial federal shutdown, coupled with imminent debt-ceiling deadline, is making the Fed’s job that much harder, he
said. Though policy makers were right not to taper last month
amid lackluster economic growth, the Fed needs to dial down
asset purchases “pretty soon,” Fischer said.  Fed Outlook  “They need to get data and to get evidence that, in fact,
the economy is strengthening,” he said. “The numbers they
really look at, the employment reports, are not being produced
at the moment, so I don’t know how they’re going to deal with
that. It may mean they wait until December, when one hopes the
government is well open for quite a long time and has dealt with
the backlog of data.”  Even after the fiscal impasse in the U.S. is resolved,
Janet Yellen, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to lead the Fed
after Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s term ends in January, has “got
a very tricky road” ahead, Fischer said.  “She’s extremely competent, extremely able,” he said of
Yellen, whose nomination came as finance officials from around
the world gathered in Washington for annual meetings of the
International Monetary Fund and World Bank.  “They’ve got to navigate the tapering, they’ve got to
navigate their way out of this period of extraordinary monetary
policy and I’m pretty sure she’ll manage it well,” Fischer
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  