-- Forest City Sells Atlantic Yards Stake to Speed Building
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-10-11T20:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/forest-city-sells-atlantic-yards-stake-to-speed-building.html
Forest City Ratner Cos. is selling a
70 percent stake in Atlantic Yards, its 22-acre development in
 Brooklyn , New York, to a Chinese company to speed up
construction as real estate demand in the borough surges.  Greenland Holding Group Co., a developer building one of
 China ’s tallest towers, signed a memorandum of understanding
with New York-based Forest City to co-develop the $5 billion
project, including infrastructure and 14 apartment buildings,
the companies said in a joint statement today. The deal excludes
the Barclays Center, the year-old arena that anchors the site,
and one residential tower already under construction.  Forest City Ratner Executive Chairman Bruce Ratner is
turning over control of the project he has been trying to
develop for almost a decade after being plagued by years of
delays. The company sought a partner to share the costs while
the Brooklyn market benefits from surging housing demand and
investor interest in New York real estate is high, said Jeff Linton, a spokesman for  Forest City Enterprises Inc. (FCE/A) , the
developer’s Cleveland-based parent.  “If we’re able to consummate this with Greenland we would
be able to deliver the housing and the balance of the project
more quickly,” Linton said in an interview. Greenland’s
interest in the deal suggests “worldwide recognition of how
strong the Brooklyn market is.”  The investment is the largest of its kind by a Chinese
developer in the U.S., Greenland said in an e-mailed statement.
Financial terms of the transaction weren’t disclosed.  Rising Rents  Brooklyn apartment rents are soaring and investors are
racing to partake in that income by acquiring multifamily
buildings. In September, rents in the borough climbed 10 percent
from a year earlier to a median of $2,800, the second-highest in
five years of record-keeping, according to  New York  appraiser
 Miller Samuel Inc.  and brokerage Douglas Elliman Real Estate.  Purchases of multifamily properties in Brooklyn totaled
$1.17 billion in 2012, up 23 percent from the previous year and
the most since 2006, according to research firm Real Capital
Analytics Inc. Sales this year are on pace to match that, with
about $897 million of buildings changing hands through
September.  “They want to build as quickly as possible to capitalize
on how strong the market is,” said Samit Parikh, an analyst
with ISI Group in New York, who rates Forest City a strong buy.
“Brooklyn rents are rising quickly. There’s a huge
gentrification happening. They understand this is a great
opportunity to get this going right now.”  Share Gain  Shares of Forest City Enterprises  rose  5.5 percent to
$19.55 today. It was the biggest gain since February 2012.  Greenland and Forest City will enter a period of exclusive
negotiations that will last through about December, with the
option to extend talks until financial terms are reached, Linton
said. With the additional equity investment, the companies may
be able to start multiple buildings at the same time, he said.  The Atlantic Yards project, approved in 2006 with a 10-year
timeline, has been delayed in part by the recession that froze
credit markets, and lawsuits filed by opponents objecting to the
seizure of private land for the project. In 2009, the Empire
State Development Corp. extended the timeframe for construction
by 15 years.  Nets Sale  Atlantic Yards was planned in conjunction with Ratner’s
2004 purchase of the  National Basketball Association ’s  New
Jersey Nets  with the intention to move them to a new home in
Brooklyn. In 2009, Ratner sold an 80 percent stake in the Nets
and a 45 percent share of the Barclays Center to Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , just three months ahead of a
deadline to break ground on the arena or lose financing through
tax-exempt New York State bonds.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  also had the right
to pull out of its 20-year, $400 million naming-rights deal for
the arena if construction hadn’t started by that date.  The overall delays have increased the company’s cost per
square foot for the project, Forest City Enterprises Chief
Executive Officer David J. LaRue said in a conference call last
month. He said at the time that the company was seeking a
partner in the development.  $500 Million  Forest City has about $500 million invested in the Atlantic
Yards project, LaRue said in a July conference call.  “The best way to monetize that is to start building all
the residential that’s in demand out there,” ISI’s Parikh said.  Greenland’s investment in the project involves 14 apartment
buildings and one office property, Linton said. The complete
development, including the apartment tower now under
construction, will produce about 6,400 residential rental units,
of which 2,250 will be considered affordable housing, Linton
said.  With a capital partner, it’s reasonable to assume that
Forest City could complete two buildings per year at the site,
Parikh said. Doing so with a partner is also part of the
company’s strategy to reduce leverage.  “As a company on their own, basically taking on this
entire project and putting up $2 billion up front is probably
not the best way of de-risking the company,” Parikh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  