-- Foxconn Investigates Student Intern Hours After Overtime Breach
-- B y   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-10-11T06:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/foxconn-investigates-student-intern-hours-after-overtime-breach.html
Foxconn Technology Group, the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, is
investigating practices at its Yantai plant in  China  after
interns worked overtime in breach of company policy.  Foxconn has taken action to ensure compliance with its code
after finding “instances” of interns working night shifts and
overtime, it said in a statement yesterday. The company will
monitor its student programs to ensure such infractions aren’t
repeated.  The assembler of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and iPads has been
criticized by activists for its work practices since suicides by
at least 10 workers in 2010 led to factory inspections and the
installation of safety nets to catch building jumpers. Foxconn
had resolved 98 percent of 360 employee condition issues raised
by the Washington-based Fair Labor Association, the group said
in May.  Foxconn’s student programs offer “practical work
experience and on-the-job training” of value to graduates,
according to its statement. Interns have the right to stop
participating in the program at any time, it said.  Internship programs at three plants were canceled after
workers as young as 14 were discovered last October.  Taipei-based Foxconn, whose flagship is  Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co. (2317) , cut general working hours to a maximum of 60 hours
a week in a step toward meeting the standards of Apple Inc. and
Chinese regulations, the FLA  said in May .  The company more than doubled wages after protests from
worker groups over conditions in a supply chain that includes
Microsoft Corp. and  Sony Corp. (6758)   Foxconn assembles Sony’s PlayStation 4 console in Yantai,
Cnet  reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  