-- France’s Le Foll Says Wheat Protein Level ‘Major’ Export Issue
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-11T13:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/france-s-le-foll-says-wheat-protein-level-major-export-issue.html
France ’s soft-wheat quality is a
“major issue,” with relatively low protein levels hindering
competition in export markets, Agriculture Minister Stephane Le Foll said.  “We know we have a problem on the positioning, which is
the quality,” Le Foll said in remarks at the European
Commodities Exchange in Paris today. “The level of protein is
very important.”  Average protein levels in France’s soft-wheat crop fell to
11.2 percent this year from 11.4 percent in 2012 after a wet
spring, according to crop office FranceAgriMer.  Algeria ,
France’s biggest export client, typically seeks protein content
of at least 11 percent for its imports of soft wheat and Egypt,
the leading global buyer of the cereal, demands 11.5 percent,
according to Dijon Cereales, a grain cooperative.  French soft wheat had record average protein of 12.5
percent in 2003, followed by levels above 12 percent in the
three years through 2007, FranceAgriMer data show.  “There is a major issue on the quality of our wheat,” Le
Foll said. “The large Mediterranean market is for wheat to make
bread, and there is competition.”  Egypt  in tenders in the past three months favored wheat
from Romania, Ukraine and  Russia  over supplies from France.  The minister said he’s “clearly heard from the industry”
that wheat protein levels hinge on nitrogen application. Le Foll
said increased use of the fertilizer can carry environmental
risks, and improved seed and using different wheat varieties
could also help lift protein.  Le Foll said yesterday France is working with Algeria on
plans for an agricultural market information system for the
Mediterranean region, and first proposals may be made next
month.  The minister said he’s seeking a regular exchange of
agriculture information, “which doesn’t exist today,” and
partners would include European countries as well as  Turkey  and
the countries of North Africa’s Maghreb region.  “Strengthening cooperation and having a statistical
database is absolutely necessary,” Le Foll said. “I want there
to be agricultural cooperation in the Mediterranean.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  