-- G-20 Says U.S. Must Take ‘Urgent Action’ on Debt Ceiling
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-10-12T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/g-20-says-u-s-must-take-urgent-action-to-remedy-debt.html
Finance chiefs singled out the
U.S.’s fiscal fight as the most pressing threat to the global
economy as they urged lawmakers to find a resolution quickly and
avoid a destabilizing default of the world’s benchmark debt.  With President  Barack Obama  and Republican lawmakers trying
to end an impasse that has partially closed the government
since the beginning of the month, Group of 20 central bankers
and finance ministers yesterday urged “urgent action” to end
the deadlock. The concern, expressed by officials from  China  to
Europe at talks in Washington, is that the lack of a deal would
shake markets and risk provoking a worldwide recession.  “A failure to resolve the situation in the U.S. would have
global consequences,” Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty
said. Chinese Deputy Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao , whose nation
is the biggest overseas holder of Treasuries, said “we hope the
U.S. heeds the global concerns.”  A month after the U.S. Federal Reserve surprised investors
by deciding not to slow its asset-purchase program, the G-20
officials from the world’s leading emerging and developed
economies also pledged future changes to monetary policy would
be “carefully calibrated and clearly communicated.”  The week ended with optimism U.S. officials would find a
compromise to extend the nation’s $16.7 trillion borrowing
authority before an Oct. 17 deadline. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index yesterday reached its highest level since September,
rising 0.6 percent to 1,703.20.  Rare Rebuke  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew used the visit of his
international counterparts to highlight the risks of inaction by
warning the U.S. cannot take for granted its role as “the
anchor of the international financial system.”  Calls for U.S. action represented a rare G-20 rebuke of the
world’s largest economy, which typically uses such occasions to
lecture other nations on their policies, be it China on the
value of the  yuan  or Europe on its need to tackle fiscal and
banking weaknesses.  While the U.S. was pressed at a similar meeting a year ago
in Mexico City to avoid a premature fiscal tightening, others
including Europe and  Japan  were also prescribed policies on that
occasion. This time, the U.S. was alone in being named in the
statement.  The Washington dispute cast a shadow over a meeting at
which officials welcomed signs that advanced economies are
finally showing “early signs of improvement,” even as many
emerging markets slow. That marks a reversal of the trends that
have shaped the world economy since it escaped its 2009
recession.  Official Optimism  “No one needs the uncertainty to be dragged out because it
has a negative effect on all of our countries,” Russian Finance
Minister Anton Siluanov told reporters after running the G-20
meeting. “Various scenarios were certainly discussed in terms
of how things could develop, but on the whole, optimism was at
the forefront.”  A secondary theme throughout the G-20 talks was the outlook
for monetary policy, with  emerging markets  saying that reducing
stimulus in rich nations could harm them by encouraging an exit
of capital and higher borrowing costs. The group promised to
monitor “spillovers” in which actions taken by one economy
hurt another.  Tapering Impact  Emerging market bonds and currencies fell earlier this year
as Fed officials signaled they may soon start to taper their $85
billion asset-purchase program. The U.S. central bank then
surprised investors last month by leaving the rate of purchases
unchanged.  “There were some opinions from emerging-market economies
that speculation of reduced monetary stimulus from the developed
countries could lead to volatility in financial markets and
capital flows,” Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said.  While acknowledging the need to be wary of them, the U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said “spillovers
should not be an excuse for emerging economies not doing what
many of them need to do” to improve their economies.  Adopting a minority view within the G-20, Flaherty urged
Fed officials to end their quantitative easing as “quickly as
they can.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in  Washington  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  