-- G4S Criticized With Serco for Poor Asylum Housing in U.K. Report
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-10-11T11:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/g4s-criticized-with-serco-for-poor-asylum-housing-in-u-k-report.html
G4S Plc (GFS)  and  Serco Group Plc (SRP)  are
providing “squalid” and “run-down” housing to asylum seekers
under government contracts, according to a report from a U.K.
parliamentary panel.  The Home Affairs Committee is concerned by the sub-standard
level of housing provided to asylum applicants under the six
contracts it holds with G4S, Serco and Clearel Ltd., according
to its report published today.  “We were alarmed to discover that thousands appear to be
living in squalid run-down housing” as part of the contracts,
Keith Vaz, chairman of the committee, said in a report. “These
companies must be held accountable and deliver a satisfactory
level of service.”  The companies have provided accommodation, associated
services and transportation to asylum applicants and their
families since last year under six so-called “Compass”
contracts with the U.K. government. Previously U.K. asylum
accommodation was operated under 30 separate government
contracts.  The panel called for the Home Office to publish the results
of its random inspections of asylum seeker properties to allow
the public to monitor the effectiveness of the housing
providers.  Justice Investigations  G4S and Serco are already facing difficulties in their home
market after the Justice Ministry announced an investigation of
whether they overcharged for the electronic tagging of
prisoners.  Serco, based in Hook,  England , generated more than half of
its revenue from the U.K. in 2012, while Crawley, England-based
G4S generated just under a quarter from the U.K. and Ireland.
Clearel is a joint venture between private service providers
Clearsprings Group and Reliance Security Task Management.  G4S provides housing and services for more than 10,000
asylum seekers under the contract and its key focus in the first
year of the contract was to “improve the quality of the
accommodation” inherited from previous providers, the company
said in an e-mailed statement.  Serco has received a “low level of formal complaints about
accommodation standards” and all of its properties are subject
to month inspections and random  home office  checks, the company
said in an e-mail. The company also said it has “worked hard to
improve the properties we inherited at the start” of the
contract.  G4S was criticized by the U.K. prison inspector earlier
this week for “very concerning” conditions at a new training
jail the company operates near Wolverhampton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  