-- Gadgets Stuck in Shutdown Pipeline Portend Possible Delay
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-10-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/gadgets-stuck-in-shutdown-pipeline-portend-possible-delay.html
Device makers such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
may have to delay introductions of new smartphones and other
products because the partial U.S. government shutdown halted
certifications that the gadgets don’t cause interference.  Computers, mobile phones, gaming systems, TVs and wireless
medical devices that emit radio waves need to pass a review by
the Federal Communications Commission. The FCC clears about
16,000 electronic devices annually, according to figures
 presented  last month to U.S. lawmakers by Jessica Rosenworcel,
an FCC commissioner.  That output is now at zero, and it “could be something
that’s a real drag on the digital economy the longer it goes
on,” Rosenworcel, a Democrat, said in an interview.  The FCC furloughed 98 percent of its staff and closed most
of its operations Oct. 1 as agencies shut down with Congress
unable to agree on spending. Lawmakers yesterday discussed a
proposal to defuse a parallel disagreement on the U.S. debt
ceiling that didn’t include language to reopen the government.  The agency may become backed up once it resumes operations,
creating the potential for delays in the introduction of devices
from Google,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Samsung Electronics Co.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and
 LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , law firm Hogan Lovells said in an Oct. 9
note.  “Increasingly it’s going to have an impact on the widely
known and available consumer products, depending on how long the
shutdown lasts,” Michele Farquhar, a Washington-based partner
with Hogan Lovells, said in an interview.  Devices Sitting  Companies rely on private test laboratories for much of the
certification and need the FCC for final approval, said
Farquhar, a former wireless bureau chief for the agency.
Products that need approval include smartphones, tablet
computers and laptops, she said.  “The longer the shutdown continues, the greater the risk
that new devices will sit in warehouses and shipping containers
unassembled or pending final design approval,”  Hogan Lovells 
said in its note.  Companies have accelerated electronic product introductions
in recent years, with applications at the FCC increasing by 400
percent over the past 10 years, according to Rosenworcel’s
testimony to Senate appropriators.  Products typically are planned a year in advance, and
devices intended for sale during the fourth quarter that
includes Christmas sales normally clear the FCC’s process by
June or July, Bruce Franca, a former official in the agency’s
Office of Engineering and Technology that vets electronics, said
in an interview.  No Impact  Shari Yoder Doherty, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View ,
California-based Google, declined to comment, as did William
Moss, a spokesman for the company’s phone-making Motorola
Mobility unit. Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined
to comment.  Some Asia-based electronic-device manufacturers said the
shutdown so far hasn’t hindered their U.S. business. “There is
no indication of major impact on Sony’s operation from the U.S.
FCC shutdown so far,” Tokyo-based  Sony Corp. (6758)  spokeswoman Misato
Suzuki said in an e-mail.  “ZTE’s business in the U.S. isn’t affected,” said David Dai, spokesman for Shenzhen-based  ZTE Corp. (000063) ,  China ’s second
largest maker of equipment for phone networks.  Angela Lee, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for  Lenovo Group.
Ltd. (992) , the world’s largest PC maker, said there has been no
impact yet on approvals for new devices. “Moreover, Lenovo has
a strong and growing business in the federal sector, and we have
not seen any impacts due to the shutdown at this time,” Lee
said in an e-mail.  Scott Sykes, spokesman for Shenzhen-based Huawei
Technologies Co., China’s largest maker of equipment for phone
networks, declined to comment on the impact of the shutdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  