-- Germany Among Three European Teams Qualifying for 2014 World Cup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-11T22:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/germany-among-three-european-teams-qualifying-for-2014-world-cup.html
Germany ,  Belgium  and Switzerland
secured their places at soccer’s 2014 World Cup, as defending
champion Spain, England and Russia closed in on berths.  Germany beat Ireland 3-0, Belgium defeated Croatia 2-1 and
Switzerland beat Albania 2-1 last night to win their qualifying
groups. The trio joins Italy and the  Netherlands  as European
teams advancing to next year’s tournament in Brazil.  “Belgium can be very proud of this team,” midfielder
Marouane Fellaini said on the website of World Cup organizer
FIFA. “We knew it would be difficult, but we have done what we
had to do.”  England, Spain and Russia won to maintain their group leads
heading to the final round of matches Oct. 15. The winners of
the nine European groups qualify for the 2014  World Cup  in
Brazil, with the best eight second-place finishers entering a
playoff for the continent’s remaining four slots.  Sami Khedira, Andre Schuerrle and Mesut Ozil scored in
Cologne as Germany booked its 18th World Cup appearance by
winning Group C. Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s goal in the 86th minute
gave Sweden a 2-1 win against Austria to clinch second place,
while the Faroe Islands and Kazakhstan drew 1-1.  Romelu Lukaku scored twice as Belgium won Group A to return
to the World Cup for the first time since 2002, while Croatia
will finish second.  Wales  beat Macedonia 1-0 in the other match
in the group.  Goals from Xherdan Shaqiri and Michael Lang gave
 Switzerland  the win that clinched the top spot in Group E.
Iceland beat Cyprus 2-0 to remain second, one point ahead of
Slovenia, which beat Norway 3-0.  England Wins  England scored all its goals in the second half in beating
Montenegro 4-1 in London to stay one point ahead of Ukraine,
which beat Poland 1-0, in Group H. The English will win the
group by beating Poland in three days. Ukraine plays its final
game against last-place  San Marino , which lost 3-0 at Moldova.  Wayne Rooney  opened the scoring in the 49th minute and an
own goal from Branko Boskovic doubled the lead. After Dejan
Damjanovic pulled Montenegro within 2-1, goals from Andros
Townsend, making his England debut, and  Daniel Sturridge 
clinched the victory.  In the lone Group I match, Spain beat Belarus 2-1 to take a
three-point lead over France.  Xavi Hernandez  and Alvaro Negredo
scored for the World Cup and European champions, who need a draw
against Georgia to qualify.  Russia routed Luxembourg 4-0 to open a three-point lead in
Group F over Portugal, which drew 1-1 at home with Israel.
Azerbaijan beat Northern Ireland 2-0 in the group’s other game.  Bosnia-Herzegovina routed Liechtenstein 4-1 and Greece beat
Slovakia 1-0 to leave the winners tied atop Group G with 22
points, while Lithuania beat Latvia 2-0.  Playoff Race  Turkey and Romania both won road games to move into a tie
for second place in Group D ahead of Hungary, which was routed
8-1 by the Netherlands. Turkey beat Estonia 2-0 and Romania
defeated Andorra 4-0.  Four teams remain in the Group B playoff race after  Italy 
scored in stoppage time for a 2-2 draw in Denmark. The Danes and
Bulgaria, which lost 2-1 to  Armenia , are tied for second with 13
points. Armenia and the Czech Republic, a 3-1 winner over Malta,
have 12 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  