-- Gold Drops to Three-Month Low as U.S. Impasse Seen Ending
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-10-11T18:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/gold-fluctuates-below-1-300-on-optimism-over-u-s-debt-deal.html
Gold tumbled to a three-month low on
speculation that U.S. lawmakers will reach an agreement to
increase the nation’s debt limit and end a government shutdown,
curbing demand for bullion as a store of value.  President  Barack Obama  and House Republican leaders were
moving toward an agreement to extend the nation’s borrowing
authority as they remained at odds over terms for ending the
partial government shutdown. A settlement would put the world’s
largest economy back on track for recovery and potentially pave
the way for the Federal Reserve to reduce monetary stimulus.
Gold has dropped 24 percent this year as U.S. growth quickened.  “A deal in the making and eventual slowing of the stimulus
are very negative for gold,”  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at
Integrated Brokerage Services LLC in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. Prices also dropped as “we saw heavy
technical selling come in, with several stop-losses being
triggered.”  Gold futures for December delivery fell 2.2 percent to
settle at $1,268.20 an ounce on the Comex at 1:49 p.m. in New
York, after touching $1,259.60, the lowest for a most-active
contract since July 10. Prices capped a second straight weekly
retreat.  Trading Halt  Trading in December futures was halted for 10 seconds at
8:42 a.m., according to the CME Group Inc., which owns the
exchange. The “stop-logic” mechanism gives traders the
opportunity to provide additional liquidity and prevent
excessive price movements. Bullion dropped about $20 in the
minute before trading paused.  Gold is heading for the first annual loss since 2000 and
the biggest decline since 1981, as some investors lost faith in
the precious metal as a store of value and amid concern that the
Fed may slow the pace of its $85 billion monthly bond purchases.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley are among banks
forecasting that U.S. lawmakers will reach a resolution, putting
the focus back on the Fed paring stimulus. Traders should sell
gold next year amid an extended economic recovery,  Jeffrey Currie , Goldman’s head of commodities research, said this week.  Fifteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News expect prices
to decline next week, while eight are bullish and four neutral,
the highest proportion of bears since Sept. 13. Holdings in the
SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest bullion-backed exchange-traded
product, fell to 896.38 metric tons yesterday, the lowest since
February 2009.  Silver futures for December delivery declined 2.9 percent
to $21.259 an ounce, the biggest drop since Sept. 20.  On the New York Mercantile Exchange, platinum futures for
January delivery fell 1.5 percent to $1,375.60 an ounce. The
metal has retreated 11 percent this year. Palladium futures for
December delivery rose 0.1 percent to $713.30 an ounce,
extending the week’s gain to 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  