-- Ibovespa Futures Fluctuate Amid China Optimism, OGX Output Drop
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-10-11T12:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/ibovespa-futures-fluctuate-amid-china-optimism-ogx-output-drop.html
Ibovespa (IBOV)   futures  fluctuated, after
the Brazilian stock index posted back-to-back gains, as data
showing car sales increased in China boosted metal prices while 
 OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  reported a drop in output.  OGX, the  oil company  founded by  Eike Batista  said crude and
gas production fell to a daily average of 13,200 barrels in
September from 13,300 a month earlier.  Lupatech SA (LUPA3) , a provider
of oil equipment and services, may be active after saying it
missed a bond payment.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring next week were little
changed at 52,795 at 9:33 a.m. in Sao Paulo after swinging from
a gain of 0.4 percent to a loss of 0.1 percent. The real
strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.1787 per dollar. The Bloomberg
Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index added 0.2 percent.  “Data in China keep pointing to strong economic activity,
which is positive for Brazil,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a partner at
Orama Asset Management, said in a telephone interview from Rio
de Janeiro. “You still have some issues weighing on the
Ibovespa. OGX, for example, is still in trouble, and can push
the index a lot lower given its weighting.”  China is Brazil’s biggest trading partner. OGX is the
sixth-heaviest weighted stock on the Ibovespa.  Wholesale deliveries of cars, multipurpose and sport-utility vehicles climbed 21 percent to an eight-month high 1.59
million units last month, according to the state-backed China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  The Ibovespa entered a bull market Sept. 9 after rising 20
percent from this year’s low on July 3 through that day. The
gauge is still down 18 percent in dollar terms this year,
compared with a decline of 3 percent for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in  Sao Paulo  yesterday was 6.25
billion reais, compared with a daily average of 7.59 billion
reais this year through Oct. 9, according to data compiled by
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  