-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Fell in October to Nine-Month Low
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-10-11T14:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-falls-to-75-2-from-77-5.html
Consumer sentiment in the U.S. fell
in October to a nine-month low as the government’s partial
shutdown and the debt-ceiling debate caused outlooks to sour.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
consumer sentiment  index  of decreased to 75.2 this month from
77.5 in September. Economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a
drop to 75.3, according to the  median  estimate.  Households are becoming pessimistic about the economy as
the shutdown heads into a third week and the deadline looms for
raising the debt limit and avoiding a default. Nonetheless,
rising wealth, lower gasoline prices and a resilient job market
are preventing confidence from slipping even more, indicating
the economy can bounce back once lawmakers reach a compromise.  “Confidence is down a bit given the shenanigans in
 Washington ,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief U.S. economist at High
Frequency Economics in Valhalla,  New York , and the top-ranked
sentiment forecaster over the past two years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “The labor market has been improving,
and hopefully this degree of turmoil in Washington is just
temporary.”  Projections of the 68 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
ranged from 65 to 80. The index averaged 89 in the five years
leading up to the economic slump that began in December 2007,
and 64.2 during the 18-month recession that ensued.  Stocks rose for a third day as lawmakers continued talks to
raise the government’s debt limit to avoid a default. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,695.23 at
10:30 a.m. in New York. It has gained 18.7 percent this year
through yesterday, shoring up the personal finances of equity
investors.  Claims Jump  A report from the Labor Department yesterday showed  jobless 
claims rose last week to the highest level in six months.
Applications for  unemployment benefits  jumped by 66,000 in the
period ended Oct. 5 to 374,000, the report said.  Some of the increase resulted from the federal government’s
partial closure, which initially placed about 800,000 civilian
employees on furlough. Roughly 15,000 of last week’s jobless
claims were made by non-federal workers whose employers lost
government business, according to a Labor Department spokesman.  The Michigan sentiment survey’s  current conditions  gauge,
which measures Americans’ view of their personal finances, rose
to 92.8 in October from 92.6.  The index of  expectations  six months from now dropped to
63.9, the weakest this year, from 67.8 last month.  Americans forecast an inflation rate of 2.9 percent over
the next  year , the lowest since October 2010, compared with last
month’s expectation of 3.3 percent. Over the next  five years ,
they project inflation to reach 2.8 percent, compared with 3
percent last month.  Diverging Confidence  Other measures of  consumer confidence  have diverged
recently, with a report yesterday showing the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index was little changed last week. Gains in measures of
personal, finances and the buying climate helped make up for a
drop in opinions about the state of the economy.  A Gallup index last week had the largest decline since the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. One-third of
respondents in another Gallup survey pointed to “dysfunctional
government” as the top problem facing the country, the largest
share in 74 years of polling.  Lower fuel prices are giving households more latitude to
spend. The average cost of a gallon of  regular-grade  gasoline
fell to $3.35 on Oct. 6, the lowest since January, according to
data from AAA, the country’s biggest motoring group.  Income Brackets  Even as cheaper fuel bolsters budgets, lower-income
households aren’t benefiting from improved stock and property
values. Discount retailers such as  Family Dollar  Stores Inc.,
based in Matthews,  North Carolina , have expressed concern about
disappointing holiday-season sales as confidence wavers.  “While many higher-income consumers are feeling better and
more confident about the future, our core customer continues to
struggle,” Michael Bloom, president and chief operating officer
of Family Dollar, said yesterday on an earnings call. “They’re
dealing with tepid job growth, higher taxes and reductions in
government assistance programs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  