-- Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon Resigns Amid Fallout From Divorce
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-10-11T19:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/michigan-treasurer-andy-dillon-said-to-plan-resignation.html
Michigan  Treasurer Andy Dillon, the
architect of the state’s takeover of  Detroit , resigned today,
citing publicity surrounding his acrimonious divorce.  “My family deserves privacy and our residents deserve to
know that their state treasurer is not distracted by such issues
and events,” the 51-year-old Democrat said in a statement. He
said he would remain until a successor is named.  Dillon has been embroiled in a post-divorce dispute in
which his ex-wife, Carol Owens-Dillon, said he assaulted her.
Prosecutors have said they won’t file charges.  The former gubernatorial candidate and state House of
Representatives speaker also has acknowledged bouts with
alcoholism. He wasn’t forced to resign by Republican Governor
 Rick Snyder , who appointed him after winning the 2010 election,
according to a person familiar with Dillon’s decision.  Snyder sent an e-mailed statement praising Dillon’s work as
treasurer in changing Michigan’s tax system and efforts to turn
around Detroit’s finances. The city filed a record $18 billion
municipal bankruptcy July 18.  “Andy has demonstrated time and again that he was the
right person at the right time to serve as treasurer,” Snyder
said. He said Dillon would help choose a new treasurer.  Dillon, who was questioned under oath yesterday in
connection with Detroit’s case, led state review teams that
investigated its finances. That led to a consent agreement with
the city in April 2012, and then to the appointment of an
emergency manager in March.  Dillon had helped write the law that gives emergency
managers sweeping authority to run cities and school districts
that are declared in financial distress.  Prior to his election to the state House in 2004, Dillon
was a corporate turnaround specialist as managing director of
Wynnchurch Capital and vice president of  GE (GE)  Capital Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  