-- Microsoft’s Frankly Speaking Thompson Guides Quest for CEO: Tech
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/microsoft-s-frankly-speaking-thompson-guides-quest-for-ceo-tech.html
Weeks before  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  announced plans to retire, lead
independent director  John Thompson  spelled out the board’s
responsibility in an on-campus interview.  “Ours is not a role where we devise the strategy,”
Thompson told Microsoft’s internal  Channel 9  site on Aug. 7.
“Our role is really to say, ‘Here’s what we think about what
we’ve heard, here’s what we like, quite frankly, here’s what we
don’t like.”  During Thompson’s almost 20 months on Microsoft’s board,
directors were frank about what they didn’t like about the
company’s performance under Ballmer, regulatory filings show.
The board, in annual reviews, rebuked the CEO for poor results
in Windows and tablets machines, even as it lauded areas such as
server software and expense cutting. They paid him less than his
maximum possible bonus.  Thompson combined candor with his experience as a 42-year
technology industry veteran to lead the board’s discussion of
company strategy, helping to create an environment that sped
Ballmer’s decision to retire, according to people with knowledge
of the matter. Thompson, 64, listened to each board member and
made sure Ballmer heard them, improving lines of communication
and making strategy talks more productive, the people said.  Diplomacy Skills  Thompson, the former CEO of  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , will now have
to bring those skills of diplomacy and focus to bear as he leads
Microsoft’s board in search of a new CEO. The task is urgent,
with Ballmer set to retire no later than August and the board
working toward having his successor in place by the end of the
year, according to people with knowledge of the discussions.  Microsoft has only had two CEOs -- co-founder  Bill Gates 
and Ballmer -- in its 38-year history. As Ballmer prepares to
exit, the Redmond, Washington-based company is getting ready to
integrate Nokia Oyj’s handset business, which Microsoft agreed
to buy for $7.2 billion to take on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google Inc. in
smartphones and tablets. It’s also grappling with the transition
from a  software company  to one with a bigger footprint in
devices and services.  Gates, 57, remains chairman of the board and Microsoft’s
third-biggest shareholder. He and Ballmer have been close
friends since college and crafted the strategy that led to
Microsoft’s PC dominance.  Potential Candidates  So far, directors have spoken with  Alan Mulally  from Ford
Motor Co., Nokia’s Stephen Elop and Microsoft business
development chief Tony Bates, as well as Paul Maritz, the
company’s former No. 3 executive, the people said. Some
candidates have declined to be considered, including EBay Inc.
CEO  John Donahoe , said two people. Ford reiterated yesterday
that Mulally plans to stay on through the end of 2014.  Microsoft spokesman  Frank Shaw  declined to comment or to
make Thompson available for an interview.  Against that backdrop, Thompson and the board are
deliberating between an outsider with a fresh perspective or an
experienced insider. In addition, they face decisions on whether
to trim Microsoft’s many businesses and focus on becoming a
purely enterprise or consumer technology company, or continue
Ballmer’s attempts to straddle both.  Those who know Thompson say he is up to the challenge. “If
I was to pick a guy to handle that kind of delicate situation --
well, John is great at it -- soft-spoken but very deliberate in
what he says and when he talks, people listen,” said Ed Zander,
former CEO of Motorola Inc., who served on the board of storage-drive maker Seagate Technology Plc with Thompson from 2009 to
2011. “He understands the challenge Microsoft has.”  Previous Struggles  Thompson also knows what it’s like to be at the head of a
struggling incumbent. While at Symantec in 2005, he orchestrated
the ill-fated $10.2 billion purchase of Veritas Software Corp.,
in an effort to push into data storage. When Thompson stepped
down as CEO four years later, Symantec was contending with
slowing growth amid an economic downturn and rising competition.  Thompson joined Microsoft as a director in 2012 as part of
an expansion of the board. At the time, directors had already
raised questions about Ballmer’s strategy, yet had been patient
in waiting for it to bear fruit, said a person familiar with the
matter. The addition of Thompson and Seagate CEO Steve Luczo
that year gave the board more technology expertise and helped
reassure longer-serving directors that they were correct to
press Ballmer, the person said.  Building Consensus  Ballmer separately was mulling the timing of his departure.
Thompson eased the process because he built consensus among
different viewpoints and helped get the board and Ballmer
comfortable with a retirement timeline, people familiar with the
situation said. Thompson shored up communication between Ballmer
and the board, making sure the CEO heard all voices, they said.  Thompson also has experience running a CEO search. In 2007,
he played the lead role in helping United Parcel Service Inc.
select Scott Davis to replace Mike Eskew, a popular 35-year
company veteran.  “He’s already cut his eyeteeth on this for UPS,” said
 Stuart Eizenstat , a former deputy Treasury Secretary and UPS
board member. “He was able to touch base with everybody, was
able to bring everybody to a consensus we were all satisfied
with and it proved to be a terrific choice.”  The son of a Florida postal worker and a teacher, Thompson
joined International Business Machines Corp. straight out of
Florida A&M University in 1971. The IBM interviewer said he was
interested in a stereo, so Thompson spent the session trying to
sell him one, Thompson wrote in a  New York  Times  column  last
year. He wound up with a job as a sales rep for IBM in Tampa.  Technology Career  Thompson likes to tell people he spent “27 years, 9 months
and 13 days at IBM” before joining technology-security company
Symantec as CEO in 1999. He took the company from $600 million
to $6 billion in  sales  over his decade-long tenure, before
stepping down in 2009.  Thompson currently runs Virtual Instruments Inc., a  San
Jose , California-based maker of software that tracks application
and hardware performance. On his second day there he realized
the company was out of cash. Now, Thompson said he’s heading for
an initial public offering.  It took some convincing to get Thompson to run a startup
after a career at big companies. He accepted the job partially
because board member Jim Davidson, a managing director at
private-equity firm  Silver Lake , told him he needed to oversee
an IPO.  As Thompson recounted in a July interview, Davidson said,
“John, you’ve had a wonderful career. But you’re going to
declare yourself a failure if you don’t do an IPO at some point
in your life.”  Microsoft Incursion  One thing Thompson has experienced is Microsoft’s
aggressiveness. At IBM, he ran the OS/2 operating system
business as it lost to Microsoft’s Windows in the 1990s. At
Symantec, he fended off Microsoft’s incursion into the antivirus
market. Upon joining the board, his friends from the IBM days
reminded him of those stories and wondered why he would help his
longtime rival.  “This is one of the true iconic companies, not just in
tech, but in our country,” Thompson told Microsoft’s Channel 9,
from its Skype office in  Palo Alto ,  California . “If there’s an
opportunity to serve in some small way to help this company use
what I’ve learned over my 42 years in this industry, why
wouldn’t I want to do that?”  Thompson doesn’t want the Microsoft CEO job and wouldn’t be
leading the search committee if he did, said one of the people
with knowledge of the matter.  Large Rolodex  With Thompson off the list, he must look for someone with
similar stature. Because of the scope of Microsoft’s challenges,
he’ll need someone who can tap the skills and expertise of
others, said a person familiar with the situation.  Steve Miller , chairman of American International Group Inc.
and a Symantec board member, said Thompson’s rolodex will help
him in that quest.  “There’s probably only 10 individuals on the planet who
can run Microsoft, given the size of the company and the
complexity,” Miller said. “John would know all of them
personally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  