-- IEA Sees Oil Output Outside OPEC Rising Most Since 1970s
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-11T11:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/iea-sees-oil-output-outside-opec-rising-most-since-1970s.html
The  International Energy Agency 
estimates that non-OPEC oil producers led by the U.S.,  Canada 
and Kazakhstan will bolster supplies next year by the most since
the 1970s, undermining the need for OPEC’s crude.  Producers outside the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will increase 2014 output by a near-record 1.7 million
barrels a day to 56.4 million, the IEA said, boosting its
forecasts from a month ago by 300,000 barrels a day. Supply
losses in OPEC members Libya and  Iraq , which reduced the group’s
output to a two-year low, are preventing the new shipments from
calming  oil prices , the Paris-based adviser to energy-consuming
nations said.  “Non-OPEC crude and other liquids supply scaled new
heights lately” and this “surge looks less like a one-off than
a preview,” the IEA said today in its monthly market report.
“Amid exceptional outages in  Libya  and Iraq, this gusher didn’t
do much to douse oil markets, though. With OPEC losses partly
canceling out North American gains, crude prices have remained
well-supported.”  Brent traded at about $111 a barrel in London today, little
changed this year, as supply disruptions in North Africa and
tensions in the  Middle East  are balanced by signs of slowing
economic expansion in emerging economies and a budget impasse in
the U.S. Crude from shale formations in  Texas  and North Dakota
is helping the world’s largest oil consumer achieve its highest
level of energy independence in more than two decades.  Price Move  “Prices dropped after the IEA published their monthly
forecast,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  in Vienna. “If the IEA picture on the supply
side is correct, there is a real risk that Brent prices will
drop below $100 a barrel during 2014.”  Brent crude  on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London
fell as much as 0.7 percent following the release of the report
at 9 a.m. London time.  The jump in non-OPEC supply prompted the agency to trim
estimates for the amount of crude OPEC will need to provide next
year, even as world demand increases. OPEC’s 12 members will
need to pump an average 29 million barrels a day in 2014, about
100,000 less than the IEA had predicted last month and almost 1
million a day less than the group is currently producing.  OPEC output slumped by 645,000 barrels a day in September
to less than 30 million a day for the first time in almost two
years as labor unrest crippled Libya’s export facilities and
Iraq conducted maintenance at its southern  oil terminal , the
agency said. Saudi Arabia, the organization’s largest member and
de facto leader, maintained output above 10 million barrels a
day for a third consecutive month, according to the report.  Global Demand  The agency trimmed its forecast for global oil demand
growth in 2014. World fuel consumption will increase by 1.1
million barrels, or 1.2 percent, to 92 million barrels a day in
2014, according to the report. The expansion in demand is about
100,000 barrels a day less than the IEA forecast last month.  “Demand growth, as an improvement from the past few years,
looks solid within the context of what’s been a weak
macroeconomic environment,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market
strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd., a research company in London.
“Non-OPEC supply growth appears extremely robust, driven by
North America but also the former Soviet Union as Kashagan in
 Kazakhstan  and the eastern Siberian fields in  Russia  ramp up.”  The U.S. will boost  production  by 830,000 barrels a day, or
8.1 percent, next year to 11 million a day amid supply growth at
the Eagle Ford and Bakken deposits. The nation will surpass
Russia as the largest producer of liquids outside OPEC in the
second quarter of next year, the IEA said.  Kazakhstan made the biggest contribution to the agency’s
reassessment of 2014 supplies, with the start of the Kashagan
field adding 140,000 barrels a day.  Total inventories  of crude and refined products in the most
industrialized nations equate to about 58.6 days worth of
consumption, or 0.1 day above their five-year average, after
increasing by 7.8 million barrels in August to 2.7 billion
barrels, according to the report.  -- Editors: Raj Rajendran, Randall Hackley  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  