-- Higgs Returns From Edinburgh Lunch to Find Nobel Physics Prize
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2013-10-11T13:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/higgs-returns-from-edinburgh-lunch-to-find-nobel-physics-prize.html
Retired physicist Peter Higgs was
walking home from a lunch in Edinburgh’s port area a few hours
after winning the Nobel Prize when a former neighbor stopped her
car to congratulate him on the news.  “I said ‘what news?’” Higgs told a press conference today
at the University of Edinburgh, where he worked from 1960 until
1996. “I’m relieved it’s all over.”  Higgs, 84, and Francois Englert, 80, a retired professor at
the Free University of Brussels, shared the  Nobel Prize in
Physics  this week for describing the Higgs boson, a theoretical
particle that may explain where mass comes from and advances the
understanding of how the world is constructed.  It took physicists almost five decades to find the boson,
while journalists needed three days to catch sight of Higgs.
Today was the first time the physicist has spoken publicly since
sharing the 8 million-krona ($1.25 million) prize on Oct. 8. The
Nobel committee in  Stockholm  had said it hadn’t been able to
reach him initially as he hid from media attention.  Higgs was enjoying soup and sea trout and a range of beers
at an eatery in Leith, the port in the Scottish capital. He had
intended to escape further, to the Highlands, on the day the
Nobel committee was deliberating the physics prize.  “I conveniently got out of the way while the telephone
messages mounted up,” said Higgs.  Jigsaw Universe  The particle is the final piece of the jigsaw puzzle in the
Standard Model, a theory explaining how the universe is built.
Its existence helps scientists understand how galaxies hold
together.  The boson is named after Higgs, one of six scientists who
devised a working theory of how elemental particles achieve mass
in a three-month period in 1964. Englert had been the first to
publish the theory a month earlier, along with Robert Brout, a
Belgian colleague who died two years ago.  Higgs, whose first academic interest was in chemistry and
mathematics when at school in the English city of Bristol during
World War II, said his contribution to the theory ceased in 1967
as the baton was passed to other scientists.  Researchers at CERN, the European center for nuclear
research near Geneva, said last year they had observed a
particle that may be the boson after analyzing results from its
 Large Hadron Collider , the world’s largest particle accelerator.
Higgs, speaking at the time in Edinburgh, said he didn’t expect
the theoretical particle to be found in his lifetime.  “It was a long time coming,” said Higgs, who was first
told he might win a Nobel Prize in 1980. “After July last year,
it seemed to be just a question of what year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh  at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  