-- Tim Purchase Speculation Sparks Wireless Rally
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2013-10-11T20:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/tim-purchase-speculation-sparks-wireless-rally.html
Shares of  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) ,
 Brazil ’s second-largest mobile-phone company, are surging on
speculation regulators will let local rivals buy the carrier and
reduce competition in the wireless market.  Tim jumped 40 percent in Sao Paulo trading this year as its
parent company,  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , looked for ways to cut its
$39 billion in net debt. The Milan-based phone company has
valued its 67 percent stake in Tim at a minimum of $12 billion
in preparation for any possible sale, a person with direct
knowledge of the matter said this week.  Rio de Janeiro-based Tim leapt to an 18-month high, and
Telefonica Brasil SA, Oi SA and  America Movil  SAB also rose.
Whether one of those companies acquire Tim or all three acquire
a piece of it, the market of 268 million wireless users would be
reduced to three competitors from four. For investors, fewer
rivals means greater profits.  “It is important, for the industry to be sustainable, to
have a market of three operators rather than four,” said Rajeev
Chand, managing director and head of research at investment bank
Rutberg & Co. in  San Francisco . “It requires a market share of
approximately 20 percent in a stable maturing market to have
enough revenue and enough profit pool to fund the investment
requirements for next-generation infrastructure.”  Only Winner  Tim, the biggest gainer among Brazilian phone stocks this
year, rose 2.9 percent at the close in Sao Paulo to 11.85 reais,
the highest since April 2012. That compared with a 0.3 percent
gain for the benchmark Ibovespa index. Telefonica Brasil rose
1.4 percent, and Oi jumped 2.3 percent.  America Movil (AMXL)  climbed
2.6 percent in Mexico City, where it’s based.  All four Brazilian companies declined to comment, as did a
spokesman for Telefonica SA. A spokesman for Telecom Italia said
there is no formal or informal process for the sale of Tim.  Brazil is open to a transaction between Telefonica and Tim
and may require asset sales within a year to approve any deal,
said a government official with direct knowledge of the matter.  Regulators, concerned that a deal would hurt service
quality, would seek to prevent the phone companies from
accumulating a concentration of regional airwave licenses, said
the official, who asked not to be identified because the
scenario is hypothetical. Neither company has sought
authorization for a transaction, the official said.  Internal Evaluation  Telecom Italia’s internal evaluation of the Brazil unit is
still at an early stage, according to the person with knowledge
of that matter.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , the parent company of Telefonica Brasil and
the biggest shareholder in Telecom Italia, would prefer a
breakup of Tim as opposed to an outright sale, said Richard Dineen, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York . Madrid-based Telefonica “would get the upside of a sale of Tim,
because, ‘We’ll buy a chunk of it and we’ll operate in a three-player market,’” he said.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , cited by BTIG LLC and Brandes
Investment Partners as a possible suitor for Tim, isn’t
interested in bidding, a person with direct knowledge of the
company said this week. AT&T Inc., the Dallas-based phone
carrier that has said it may invest outside the U.S., owns 9
percent of America Movil, which has a 25 percent share of the
Brazilian wireless market through its Claro brand.  Simon Gordon, a spokesman for Vodafone, and  Mark Siegel , an
AT&T spokesman, declined to comment on their companies’ interest
in Tim.  Regulatory Precedent  Tim has had 15 straight quarters of year-over-year profit
growth through June, excluding items such as interest, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company had 73 million
subscribers at the end of August, second only to Telefonica,
according to regulator Anatel.  Brazil wants to prompt more competition by keeping four
operators,  Paulo Bernardo , the communications minister, told
reporters in Brasilia this week.  “If you ask any telecom user, they will want more
competition,” he said. A spokesman for Anatel declined to
comment because it hasn’t yet been presented with a merger
proposal to analyze. A spokesman for the antitrust agency, Cade,
also declined to comment on hypothetical situations.  Bernardo’s position follows a precedent set by other
governments, including a high-profile case in the U.S., where
regulators blocked AT&T’s attempt to buy T-Mobile USA Inc. in
2011. They argued that reducing the number of competitors on the
market to three would be unacceptable.  Now that theory is being tested again in  Europe , where
companies are struggling with traffic growth, lower prices and,
in some cases, mounting debt, said Gerardo Zamorano, director of
investments at Brandes, which owns 4 percent of Tim.  German Deal  “Regulators have gone from being focused on ensuring the
lowest price possible to being more balanced and trying to allow
for a healthy environment for the telecom operators,” Zamorano
said by phone from  San Diego .  In  Germany , The Hague-based  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  is selling its E-Plus unit to Telefonica, shrinking the market to three from four
operators. Regulators are reviewing the deal.  “All eyes are on this E-Plus transaction,” Chand said in
a telephone interview. “If the EU lets Telefonica acquire E-Plus from KPN, I think you will see a wave of four to three
transactions across Europe, and you will see this global trend
that the industry is hoping for.”  Stefan Simons, a KPN spokesman, declined to comment.  Concessions Needed?  Cade’s previous rulings on mergers of competitors show one
way regulators could approach a deal between Tim and its rivals.
The Brasilia agency approved the combination of Casas Bahia and
Ponto Frio, which sell household appliances, this year on the
condition that 74 stores be sold in cities where the joint
company had a market share of greater than 60 percent.  Oi, Brazil’s fourth-largest wireless carrier, has also
shown it’s possible to overcome government opposition to a deal,
Zamorano said. In 2009, Oi completed its purchase of Brasil
Telecom Participacoes SA after a change in legislation allowed
one landline operator to buy another in a different geographic
area.  “The regulations have changed in the past to allow
consolidation, so it’s a possibility that we’ll see another
change,” Zamorano said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  