-- IMF’s Shinohara Says More BOJ Easing ‘Dangerous’ Without Reforms
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-10-11T21:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/imf-s-shinohara-says-more-boj-easing-dangerous-without-reforms.html
It would be “dangerous” for the
 Bank of Japan  to increase stimulus beyond what it already
planned before Prime Minister Shinzo Abe implements structural
reforms in the economy, a top International Monetary Fund
official said.  “It would be very dangerous to rely on monetary policy
alone” to boost growth,  Naoyuki Shinohara , deputy managing
director at the IMF, said in an interview in Washington today.
“Because of  Japan ’s poor fiscal state, it would be easy for the
Bank of Japan to be seen as financing the government’s
deficits.”  The Japanese central bank pledged in April to double the
monetary base over two years to end deflation. Abe has yet to
specify the reforms that he says make up the third and final
pillar of his plan to bolster the Japanese economy. Short-term
fiscal stimulus and monetary easing are the two other pillars.  Inflation expectations in Japan haven’t rebounded as much
as the government has hoped, Shinohara said. The more stimulus
the central bank injects, the harder it gets to eventually
normalize policy and the greater the risk of accumulating
imbalances in financial markets, which are challenges that the
U.S. Federal Reserve is already facing, he said.  Shinohara added that the Fed’s attempts to signal an
eventual reduction in its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases
have served as a “ stress test ” for emerging market economies,
some of which have proved to be more resilient than others.  Weak Fundamentals  “The hardest-hit countries had weak fundamentals” such as
high inflation and a current account deficit, he said.  Policy makers in emerging market economies should also
resist the urge to pump too much stimulus into their economies,
Shinohara said. Both slower growth in developed economies and
some structural issues may mean they no longer have the capacity
to grow at the rate that they once did, he said.  “It would be fine if they responded under the assumption
that the global economy has changed,” he said. “But if they
assume they can continue in the same way as before, they may
fail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  Washington  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  