-- IMF Says Measures to Control Asia Capital Outflow Could Backfire
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-10-11T13:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/imf-says-measures-to-control-asia-capital-outflow-could-backfire.html
Any measures by Asian policy makers
to implement capital controls on outflows could backfire and
officials should focus on easing existing restrictions on money
entering their economies, the International Monetary Fund said.  As the prospect of reduced U.S. stimulus led investors to
sell assets in  emerging markets , some Asian countries have been
“subject to greater stress” than others, the Washington-based
lender said in its Regional Economic Outlook update today. The
IMF cut its growth forecasts for the region for 2013 and 2014.  The $3.9 trillion of cash that flowed into emerging markets
over the past four years started to reverse as Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke talked about a tapering in quantitative
easing this year. Officials from  India  to Indonesia in recent
months have had to take steps including raising some interest
rates to stem an outflow of capital.  “Although some had introduced controls on inflows as
international capital spilled in, implementing controls on
capital outflows as global conditions tighten may backfire,”
the IMF said. “Consideration could be given instead to rolling
back previously imposed controls on inflows and further
liberalizing restrictions on the more stable sources of
inflows.”  Emerging Asia’s economic growth faces risks from the paring
of monetary stimulus by the Fed, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said this week. Policy makers from
China to  Indonesia  have warned of financial market volatility as
the U.S. exits from monetary-easing policies.  Tighter Liquidity  Emerging Asian economies may grow 6.3 percent this year,
the IMF said, lowering its forecast from an April projection of
7.2 percent. The region may expand 6.5 percent in 2014, from an
earlier prediction of 7.4 percent.  “Tighter global liquidity -- and home-grown structural
impediments in some countries -- will weigh on growth, but for
most economies the impact should be partly offset by a gradual
pickup in exports to advanced economies and resilient domestic
demand,” the fund said. “Those with strong fundamentals and
policy credibility will be able to offset imported tightening
through lower policy rates and fiscal support.”  Countries that have delayed reforms, those that failed to
address fiscal vulnerabilities, or tolerated inflation that was
too high may be forced to tighten policy, the IMF said.  “Announcing credible medium-term reforms would rebuild
confidence and ease policy trade-offs,” it said.  The IMF lowered its forecasts for  China  and India earlier
this week. Growth in China may decelerate to 7.6 percent in 2013
and 7.3 percent in 2014, and excess capacity in a number of
industries and stable food prices mean inflation will probably
remain “unproblematic,” the IMF said in today’s report.  In India, where the fund lowered its forecast for growth
this fiscal year by 2 percentage points from an April
projection, it said food prices will keep inflation “close to
double digits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  