-- India’s Strongest Storm in 14 Years Set to Strike East Coast
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-10-11T16:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/india-closes-port-as-worst-storm-in-14-years-nears-east-coast.html
India  braced for the country’s
strongest storm in 14 years to make landfall tomorrow after
moving oil vessels out to sea, closing one of its biggest ports
and deploying rescue teams to the eastern coastline.  The cyclone named Phailin, meaning sapphire in Thai, is
expected to make landfall at about 6 p.m. local time, according
to L.S. Rathore, director-general of the  India Meteorological
Department . The storm with wind speeds of as much as 220
kilometers (136.7 miles) an hour will hit areas of Odisha and
Andhra Pradesh states, he told reporters in New Delhi.  “The storm has the potential to cause huge damage,”
Rathore said. “We don’t contemplate it will further intensify.
It will remain as a very severe cyclonic storm.”  Paradip Port Trust, India’s biggest dry bulk cargo
facility, moved all its ships to sea and shut down operations,
spokesman Prakash Chandra Mishra said by phone. The  National
Disaster Management Authority  dispatched a 1,500-strong rescue
force to the two states, while the Indian Air Force said it sent
two IL-76 airlift teams and is committing two C-130J Super
Hercules planes.  Andhra Pradesh’s Chief Minister Kiran Kumar Reddy urged
citizens in low-lying areas to move to safer place in a
statement today. There will probably be “large scale”
disruptions to power and communication lines and rail and road
traffic as well as extensive damage to crops, the statement
said. About 64,000 people have been evacauted.  “We are prepared for the worst,” Pradipta Kumar
Mohapatra, special relief commissioner of Odisha, said by phone
from the state capital Bhubaneswar.  1999 Cyclone  Phailin is the strongest since a cyclone with maximum wind
speeds of 260 kilometers per hour lashed Odisha in 1999, killing
about 9,000 people, damaging 2 million houses and destroying
crops spread over 1.65 million hectares.  The storm will severely affect Ganjam, Khordha, Puri and
Jagatsinghpur districts of  Odisha  and Srikakulam district of
Andhra Pradesh. The storm could cause widespread damage to
crops, destroy houses and disrupt power and communication lines,
according to the meteorological department.  “Water, food and medicine are being kept to deal with the
emergency,” said Vishwapati Trivedi, federal shipping
secretary.  Visakhapatnam Port Trust , the second busiest facility on
India’s east coast, has set up an emergency control office,
Chairman R.P.S. Kahlon said by phone. The port handles cargo for
Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest state-owned refiner.  Electricity, Steel  In Andhra Pradesh, employees at the state-controlled power
utility who were on strike earlier this week protesting a
proposal to split the state returned to work.  Output dispatches at steelmaker Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd.,
which has a manufacturing plant in Visakhapatnam, have not been
affected, Finance Director P. Madhusudan said.  Andhra Pradesh is among the nation’s top rice producers and
also harvests cotton and sugar. Odisha also grows rice.  “The storm will have a bigger effect on rice than sugar,”
Sterling Smith, a futures specialist at Citigroup Inc. in
 Chicago  said in a telephone interview. India is the world’s top
rice exporter, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Tropical cyclones are known as hurricanes in the Atlantic
and northern Pacific oceans and typhoons in the northwestern
Pacific part of Asia. For each cyclone formed in the Arabian Sea
on India’s west coast, the Bay of Bengal on the east coast has
four, according to  National Disaster Management Authority.   Recurring Cyclones  An estimated 320 million people, or about a quarter of the
country’s total population, are vulnerable to cyclone-related
hazards, according to NDMA. Recurring cyclones account for a
large number of deaths, loss of public and private property and
severe damage to infrastructure, reversing developmental gains
at regular intervals.  “It’s a great challenge,” said M. Shashidhar Reddy, vice
chairman of NDMA. “We will make all possible efforts to
minimize loss of life and damage to properties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Niveditha Ravi at 
 nravi2@bloomberg.net  