-- India’s Nifty Futures Rise on U.S. Debt Talks, Infosys Outlook
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-10-11T02:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/india-s-nifty-futures-rise-on-u-s-debt-talks-infosys-outlook.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures jumped as
U.S. lawmakers moved toward an agreement to increase the
government debt ceiling, and before  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  reports
quarterly earnings today.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for October delivery increased
1.1 percent to 6,140.5 at 10:15 a.m. in Singapore. The
underlying CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index rose 0.2 percent to 6,020.95
yesterday. The S&P BSE Sensex advanced 0.1 percent. The Bank of
 New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares gained 2.6
percent, capping the biggest two-day rally since May.  Talks between President Barack Obama and Republican
lawmakers will continue as they try to seek a “path forward”
on the debt ceiling, according to Republican House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor . The  International Monetary Fund  warned this
week that failure to reach an agreement “could seriously damage
the global economy.” Quarterly profits at Infosys Ltd., India’s
second-largest software exporter, may have grown 12 percent from
a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “All eyes will be on Infosys earnings and how the debt
issue pans out in the U.S.,” Kishor Ostwal, managing director
at CNI Research Ltd., said in an interview yesterday. “We are
expecting a good set of numbers from Infosys given the rupee’s
decline in the quarter under review.”  Infosys Reports  Infosys profit may climb to 26.6 billion rupees ($433
million) from 23.7 billion rupees a year earlier, according to
the median estimate of 41 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The rupee lost 5.2 percent against the dollar in the
quarter ended Sept. 30, the third-worst performer after the
Indonesian rupiah and Argentinian peso among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Infosys got 64 percent of its
revenue from  North America  in the fiscal year ended March 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Profits in dollar-denominated sectors, including software,
health care and metals, likely grew 19 percent in the quarter
from a year earlier, Motilal Oswal Securities Ltd. wrote in a
note dated Oct. 1.  About 47 percent of Sensex companies missed analysts’
profit forecasts in the June quarter, compared with 27 percent
three months earlier.  India’s economic growth will accelerate from the previous
quarter as exports strengthen, agricultural output improves and
the nation tackles challenges such as poor infrastructure and a
“distorted” regulatory regime,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Raghuram Rajan said in a speech in Washington yesterday.  While inflation remains high, Rajan said, India may be past
the slowdown in growth, which cooled to 4.4 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the least since the three months ended
March 2009.  Global investors bought a net $52.4 million of local stocks
on Oct. 9, taking this year’s inflows to $13.9 billion, data
from the regulator show.  The Sensex has risen 4.4 percent this year and is  valued  at
13.9 times estimated 12-month profits, compared with the five-year average of 14.1 times. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index is
trading at 10.6 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  