-- India Factory Output Misses Estimates as Domestic Demand Falters
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-10-11T12:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/india-factory-output-misses-estimates-as-domestic-demand-falters.html
India ’s industrial output rose less
than economists estimated in August as  consumer spending 
moderated, adding pressure on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government to intensify efforts to revive the economy.  Output at factories, utilities and mines advanced 0.6
percent from a year earlier after a revised 2.75 percent climb
in the previous month, the Statistics Ministry said in a
statement in New Delhi today. The median of 33 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 2 percent gain.  Singh’s steps, ranging from fewer restrictions on foreign
investors to faster approvals for road and power projects, have
so far failed to stem a slowdown in economic growth. India also
faces consumer-price inflation of almost 10 percent, which led
central bank Governor Raghuram Rajan to raise the benchmark
 interest rate  last month even as investment moderates.  “Investment in infrastructure has to be revived,” Soumya Kanti Ghosh, an economist at  State Bank  of India in Mumbai, said
before the data. Supply bottlenecks also have to be eased to
reduce price pressures and give the central bank room to loosen
monetary policy, Ghosh said.  The rupee, which has slid 13 percent against the dollar in
the past 12 months, strengthened 0.5 percent to 61.08 at the
close in Mumbai. The S&P BSE Sensex  index  advanced 1.3 percent.
The yield on the 10-year government bond maturing May 2023 rose
to 8.49 percent from 8.42 percent yesterday.  The currency has appreciated about 13 percent since
reaching a record low on Aug. 28, helped by Rajan’s efforts to
attract dollar inflows after taking charge at the RBI last
month.  Interest Rates  Rajan has raised the  repurchase rate  by a quarter of a
percentage point to 7.5 percent to tackle inflation, while
easing liquidity curbs imposed in July to shore up the rupee.  Growth in  Asia ’s third-largest economy is “somewhere near
the low,” the governor said in a speech in  Washington 
yesterday. The pace should accelerate, helped by exports and
farm  output (INPIINDY) , he said.  Shipments abroad have climbed since July, snapping a three-month stretch of declines. They rose 11 percent in September as
imports dropped 18 percent and the trade deficit shrank to $6.76
billion, the narrowest since March 2011, according to an Oct. 9
release and previously reported data.  Manufacturing fell 0.1 percent in August from a year
earlier, while capital goods output slid 2 percent, today’s data
showed. Mining declined 0.2 percent and electricity output
increased 7.2 percent.  Wholesale prices  rose 6 percent in September from a year
earlier, holding close to the fastest pace in six months,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
before a report due Oct. 14.  Consumer prices  increased 9.5
percent last month, a separate survey projects.  Slower Indian expansion has hurt companies such as Tata
Motors Ltd., India’s biggest automaker by revenue. Tata’s local
deliveries dropped 35 percent in September.  The economy will  expand  5 percent to 5.5 percent in the
fiscal year ending March, the Finance Ministry forecasts. HSBC
Holdings Plc predicts slower growth of 4 percent, which would be
the weakest pace in more than a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  