-- Infosys Surges After Raising Annual Sales Forecast: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   S u r e s h   S e s h a d r i
-- 2013-10-11T20:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/infosys-profit-lags-estimates-as-clients-curb-software-spending.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-largest
software exporter, surged to the highest level in 2 1/2 years in
Mumbai trading after raising its sales forecast as economic
recovery spurs European clients to boost spending on services.  The  stock  climbed 4.7 percent to 3,274.50 rupees, the
highest close since April 2011. Revenue in dollar terms will
increase by 9 percent to 10 percent in the year ending March,
Infosys said today. The Bangalore-based company previously
projected growth of 6 percent to 10 percent.  Sales momentum has strengthened with Infosys adding clients
including Toyota Motor Corp.’s European unit that are seeking to
pare costs and boost efficiency by outsourcing work. Worldwide
spending on information technology services will grow 3.4
percent this year, researcher IDC  said  on Aug. 5. The Indian
company is also benefiting from the Indian rupee’s drop.  “Infosys is indicating they have a clearer picture of the
road ahead and it looks good thanks to resurgent economies in
the U.S. and  Europe ,” said Harit Shah, a Mumbai-based analyst
with Nirmal Bang Equities Ltd. “The rupee’s depreciation has
been icing on the cake. There’s good upside moving forward.”  The software provider also reported earnings, with second-quarter  net income  rising 1.6 percent to 24.1 billion rupees
($394 million) in the three months ended September. That missed
the 26.6 billion-rupee median of 46  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg, due to a 2.2 billion-rupee provision for “visa-related matters,” according to the statement.  U.S. Visas  Infosys is in talks with the U.S. attorney’s office
regarding the government’s probe into the company’s compliance
with visa laws. Infosys has allocated $35 million for a possible
settlement and legal fees, it said.  Sales in the three months ended Sept. 30 climbed to 129.7
billion rupees from 98.6 billion rupees. That exceeded the 127.3
billion-rupee median of analysts’ estimates.  Infosys  options tumbled  as the stock’s move disappointed
traders who had bet the shares would swing 12 percent by month-end. All nine of the  most-traded contracts  today retreated, with
October 3,100 puts tumbling 85 percent. Infosys shares moved by
an average 11 percent after its last eight quarterly reports.  The rupee declined 5.2 percent against the dollar in the
July-September period helping pare the cost of India’s software-services exports to overseas buyers. The rupee’s fall coincided
with increased demand from Infosys’s clients -- in the U.S. by
3.9 percent versus the previous quarter, and in Europe 5.2
percent. The two  markets  accounted for about 85 percent of the
company’s revenue, according to the statement.  Hedging Plan  “We have an active hedging program to minimize” the
impact of currency volatility, Chief Financial Officer Rajiv Bansal said. “We will continue our focus on optimizing costs
and enhancing the efficiency of our operations.”  The company’s forecast also lifted shares of its
competitors.  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH) , the Teaneck,
New Jersey-based company that pays more than a quarter of its
costs in rupees, jumped 5.5 percent to a record $88.85 at the
close in  New York . In Mumbai,  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) 
rose 2 percent to 2,122.05 rupees, also a record.  Infosys also increased its rupee-based sales forecast to a
range of 21 percent to 22 percent from 13 percent to 17 percent.  Revenue from India rose to 2.4 percent of its total in the
quarter ended September, from 1.6 percent a year earlier.  Infosys co-founder, N.R. Narayana Murthy, who returned as
executive chairman in June to help revive growth, has said a
sales recovery could take three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  