-- Third Tampa Bay Buccaneers Player Diagnosed With Staph Infection
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-10-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/third-tampa-bay-buccaneers-player-found-to-have-staph-infection.html
A third Tampa Bay Buccaneers player
was diagnosed with a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
infection, the National Football League team said.  Buccaneers General Manager Mark Dominik declined to name
the player during a news conference yesterday in Tampa,  Florida .
NFL.com, citing a person it didn’t identify, said the infected
player is cornerback Johnthan Banks.  The announcement came a day after the team said guard Carl Nicks has a recurrence of an MRSA infection in his left foot
that kept him out for the first three games of the season.
Buccaneers kicker Lawrence Tynes was diagnosed with MRSA in
August and has been unable to play this season.  “We can definitely say that the first two cases are not
related to each other,”  Deverick Anderson , co-director of the
Duke infection control outreach network, said at the news
conference. “We can’t say whether the third case is related.
You can definitely say that they did not get it from one another
because of the nature of the organisms.”  Since Tynes was diagnosed, Dominik said the team has been
working with Anderson and other infectious disease specialists
to treat and educate its players, sanitize its training facility
and install new health and safety protocols.  “The health and safety of our players is of the utmost
importance,” Dominik told reporters.  Anderson addressed Buccaneers players and staff yesterday.  ‘Safe Environment’  “I believe this is a safe environment for the players and
staff,” he said. “Football in and of itself is a known risk
for MRSA. This does not mean this is a higher-risk area than any
other place in the country. MRSA is very common. We know that
football players are at a higher risk because they have a lot of
skin-to-skin contact and skin abrasions.”  There were 33 MRSA staph infections leaguewide from 2006 to
2008 -- 11 each season among the 32 teams, USA Today reported,
citing an NFL physicians survey. The St. Louis Rams, Cleveland
Browns, Washington Redskins and San Francisco 49ers are among
the teams with documented cases.  The National Football League Players Association said it
was concerned with the Bucs’ continuing problem with the
infections.  “We have been involved in an ongoing review of the MRSA
incidents in Tampa Bay initiated by the concerns we had about
the manner in which team officials responded to these cases,”
the NFLPA said in a statement. “This underscores the need for a
league-wide comprehensive and standardized infectious disease
protocol. It also calls for improved accountability measures on
health and safety issues by the NFL over the clubs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  