-- J.C. Penney Revival Hinges on Avoiding Holiday Price War
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-10-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/j-c-penney-revival-hinges-on-avoiding-holiday-price-war.html
Now that  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  Chief
Executive Officer Mike Ullman has slowed the sales decline and
amassed enough cash to fund two years of operations, he faces
his biggest challenge since returning as CEO: a holiday season
marked by price wars and penny-pinching consumers.  Analysts predict that U.S. retailers will discount heavily
as they compete for shoppers concerned by joblessness and budget
battles in  Washington . While J.C. Penney has shored up its
operations and finances,  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  can better
afford to cut prices to drive traffic. If Ullman is forced to
join the price war, he risks hurting profitability and burning
cash at a faster than projected rate.  At the same time, Americans are buying less apparel, which
makes up more than half of J.C. Penney’s sales, as they shift
their dollars into such  consumer durables  as cars and
appliances. If that trend persists, retailers will really pour
on the discounts, making Ullman’s task even more challenging.  “It’s going to be hard,” Poonam Goyal, a Bloomberg
Industries analyst, said in an interview. “Holiday isn’t going
to be great for anyone, except maybe for off-price retailers.”  Ullman, who returned for his second stint as J.C. Penney’s
CEO in April, has been working to undo a failed attempt by
predecessor  Ron Johnson  to make the Plano, Texas-based 
department-store chain into a destination for younger and 
richer shoppers. While he has had to continue paying for 
expensive renovations Johnson ordered, Ullman has reinstituted 
sales events and brought back popular private-label brands that 
Johnson nixed.  Sales Rebound  Those plans helped slow the drop in sales at stores open at
least 12 months to 4 percent in the month through Oct. 5, J.C.
Penney said. Sales rose in women’s apparel, the chain’s largest
business, the company said, without saying how much. The
progress hasn’t helped the shares, which through yesterday had
declined 60 percent this year compared with a 19 percent gain
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Fifteen analysts recommend
holding the shares, eight recommend selling them and three
recommend buying them, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ullman has aggressively shored up J.C. Penney’s finances.
Early on, he drew $850 million from a revolving  credit line ,
then arranged a loan commitment from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
that provided the company with $2.25 billion in cash. Last
month, he sold 84 million shares, generating about $785 million
after fees. The share offering came about a month after J.C.
Penney said its forecast for year-end liquidity didn’t assume
the need to raise more cash this year.  War Chest  The company now says it will end the year with more than $2
billion in liquidity. Assuming its losses don’t accelerate, the
war chest should last the company through 2015, said  Liz Dunn ,
an analyst at Macquarie Group in New York. Significant
improvement would give the chain more time to complete the
turnaround and it “seems like they are on the right track,”
she said.  Still, if the holiday season doesn’t pan out as expected,
the chain may use most of the cash it just raised and be back in
the same dilemma in a year, said Michael Binetti, an analyst at
UBS AG in New York, who recommends selling the shares.  A lackluster back-to-school shopping period raised concerns
that consumers will curb spending in the fourth quarter. Several
apparel retailers are struggling and may offer deeper discounts
earlier than usual to attract shoppers. Analysts project that
revenue at seven of the nine public companies in  Bloomberg U.S.
Department Store Index will either drop or be basically
unchanged.  Margin Crimp  An early race to the bottom on prices may crimp J.C.
Penney’s much-needed gains in gross margin, or the percentage of
sales left after costs of goods sold.  Analysts project J.C. Penney’s gross margin will expand to
31.3 percent in the fourth quarter from 24 percent a year
earlier, when Johnson’s failed strategy forced J.C. Penney to
massively discount merchandise to grab any sales it could. The
average gross margin in the Department Store Index was 36
percent during that period.  The good news for Ullman is that the company will consume
less cash as the retailer winds down Johnson’s attempt to turn
J.C. Penney’s stores into collections of branded boutiques.
 Capital expenditures  will be $300 million in 2014, the company
said on Aug. 20. That compares with analysts’ estimates for
$951.7 million this year.  The company also can pull back on rebuilding inventory
depleted under Johnson because his team incorrectly allocated
goods to stores based on square footage rather than a given
store’s sales volume.  Ullman’s decision to bring back several private-label
brands axed under Johnson should help him restrain discounts
because house brands can’t be found elsewhere and hence are
impossible to comparison shop. Private-label merchandise
generates more than half of the company’s sales.  J.C. Penney’s success this holiday will depend largely on
whether “the consumer environment remains steady to better, and
doesn’t worsen,” Goyal said. “As long as that happens and they
continue to use promotions to drive traffic and get the right
merchandise in stores, they should be OK.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  