-- Janis Joplin; All Women “Julius Caesar’; Yanks: Theater
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/janis-joplin-all-women-julius-caesar-yanks-theater.html
A G-rated version of blues singer
 Janis Joplin  isn’t exactly the tribute anyone might have
expected for the star who died at 27 of a heroin overdose in
1970.  Notwithstanding its rose-colored granny glasses, however,
you shouldn’t miss “ A Night With Janis Joplin ” on Broadway at
the Lyceum.  This exuberant, phenomenally well-executed “concert”
avoids the lurid vortex-of-darkness that similar biographical
shows (most recently, “Lady Day”) revel in. The heroin-addicted, Southern Comfort-swilling, sexually ambiguous Joplin
arrives on Broadway essentially stripped of her rough edges.  Yet you’ll hear impeccable covers of “Summertime,”
“Piece of My Heart,” “Cry Baby” and “Me and Bobby McGee,”
backed by one of the best rock bands ever heard in these
precincts, replicating the sound of Joplin’s bands --
particularly Big Brother and the Holding Company -- if not the
significance of their collaboration with the singer.  Here is a congenial Joplin, talking about, and introducing
us to her musical influences: Bessie Smith, Nina Simone, Odetta
and  Aretha Franklin .  There’s no mention of the self-loathing and insecurity that
made Joplin the blistering performer she was. But I did
appreciate hearing the connections she made and internalized to
develop into the singer she became.  And then there’s the amazement that is Mary Bridget
Davies’s performance in the title role. She looks nothing like
Joplin yet the gravel voice, jerky/fluttery mannerisms and, most
importantly, the soul, all are scorchingly present. I’ve no idea
how she does this night after night. (Gerard)  At the Lyceum Theatre, 149 W. 45th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: ***1/2  ‘Julius Caesar’  Phyllida Lloyd’s all-female production of “ Julius Caesar ”
is set in a prison and requires the audience to enter through a
holding pen, with stern looking guards and posters threatening
arrest for certain offences.  This import from  London ’s  Donmar Warehouse  also asks us to
sit for over two uninterrupted hours in uncomfortable seats at
 St. Ann’s Warehouse  in Brooklyn.  The reward for such silliness is one of the most ferocious,
immediate performances of the play I’ve ever seen. It’s led by
Harriet Walter’s Brutus, a Shakespeare paradigm of conflicted
heroism torn between love and hate for Caesar (Frances Barber,
in an eerie portrayal that’s part spectral, part gangster).
Walter’s embodiment of Brutus’s masculine and feminine sides is
thoroughly compelling. (Gerard)  Through Nov. 3 at St. Ann’s Warehouse, 29 Jay St.,
Brooklyn. Information: +1-718-254-8779;
 http://www.stannswarehouse.org . Rating: *****  ‘Bronx Bombers’  Imagine a  Twilight Zone -like dinner attended by legends of
all eras who played for the  New York Yankees , the most
successful franchise in baseball.  Yogi Berra  (Richard Topol) dispenses Yogi-isms about his
New Jersey home (“It’s a big house, but all it’s got in it is
rooms”).  Mickey Mantle  (Bill Dawes) argues with  Joe DiMaggio 
(Chris Henry Coffey).  Babe Ruth  (C.J.Wilson) thinks  Derek Jeter 
(Christopher Jackson) is in the Negro leagues.  For fans, the surreal dream scene and the rest of Eric
Simonson’s “ Bronx Bombers ” seem like a reunion of old friends.  Most of the first act is set in a Boston hotel room in
1977, as Berra tries to make peace between Manager  Billy Martin 
(Keith Nobbs) and his argumentative star right fielder,  Reggie
Jackson  (Francois Battiste). Act II features the Berra dinner
revealing that turmoil and triumph co-existed in every era.  Non-fans will struggle to keep the 13 characters straight.
“Bombers” is the least accessible of Simonson’s three sports
plays presented in New York. This one he also directed, ably.
More sentimental journey than serious drama, the show lets
pinstripe diehards get their fix without leaving  Manhattan .
(Boroff)  At 229 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-646-223-3010;
 http://www.primarystages.org/bronxbombers/ . Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic and Philip Boroff is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
 Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .
Philip Boroff at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 