-- JPMorgan Shrinks Investment Bank Compensation Pool 4.4%
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-11T11:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/jpmorgan-shrinks-investment-bank-compensation-pool-4-4-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s corporate and
investment bank allocated 4.4 percent less for employee
compensation in the first nine months of the year as the
division’s revenue climbed 5.7 percent.  The unit’s $8.69 billion in compensation fell to 31 percent
of revenue, excluding accounting adjustments, from 34 percent in
the same period of 2012, according to figures posted today on
the New York-based firm’s website. The amount equals $165,774
for each of the division’s 52,445  employees . The unit employed
52,226 people a year earlier.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, combined its
investment bank with the corporate bank and treasury and
securities-services units last year under co-heads Mike Cavanagh, 47, and Daniel Pinto, 50. The group has more than
twice as many employees as the investment bank.  The amount set aside for compensation includes salaries,
bonuses, benefits and the cost of deferred pay from  previous
years . Figures for average pay don’t represent what individuals
actually receive and are calculated by dividing the total
compensation expense by the number of employees.  “We really believe in pay for performance,” Cavanagh told
 shareholders  in February. JPMorgan’s scale can help keep the
compensation-to-revenue ratio low while offering top employees
pay at least as good as competitors, he said.  Companywide compensation, JPMorgan’s largest expense, was
$23.8 billion in the nine-month period, up 1 percent from a year
earlier.  The bank told investors in February that it planned to cut
adjusted expenses by about $1 billion. Chief Financial Officer
Marianne Lake said last month the lender probably won’t meet
that goal because of higher litigation expenses and costs to
improve its controls and compliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  