-- Junk Bond Yields Drop to 4-Month Low in Europe as Sales Recover
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-10-11T11:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/junk-bond-yields-drop-to-4-month-low-in-europe-as-sales-recover.html
Borrowing costs for  junk-rated 
companies dropped to the lowest in more than four months in
Europe amid a revival in issuance.  The average yield on speculative-grade bonds fell 12 basis
points this week to 4.6 percent, the lowest since May 31,
Bloomberg bond index data show. Portuguese power company Redes
Energeticas Nacionais SGPS SA led sales to a three-week high of
940 million euros ($1.3 billion) after zero issuance the
previous week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are seeking higher-yielding debt as economists
forecast record low interest rates will remain until at least
2015 even as growth strengthens. A decline in the number of
companies failing to pay their debts is also boosting
confidence, with default rates in Europe falling to 3.3 percent
in the third quarter from 3.6 percent a year ago, Moody’s
Investors Service reported this week.  “There’s been steady funds flow into high yield as we see
improving economic data, low default rates, and lack of
appealing investment alternatives,” said Richard Phelan, head
of European credit research at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .
“That’s an important driver of falling yields, and a temporary
lull in new issuance can provide technical support for the
secondary market.”  Investors placed $736 million in European high-yield credit
funds in the week ending Oct. 9, the fifth week of inflows, Bank
of America Corp. analysts led by Barnaby Martin wrote in a
report today. Investment-grade funds had outflows of $383
million over the same period, according to the report.  Borrowing Costs  The average yield on high-grade corporate bonds rose to a 3
1/2-week high of 2.04 percent. The U.S. government shutdown
entered an 11th day, increasing speculation the Federal Reserve
will delay its plan to taper stimulus.  “Dysfunction in D.C. means the era of high liquidity lives
on globally,” Bank of America Corp. analysts wrote in the
report. “Expect flows to favour yield, such as high-yield
credit, over safety, such as investment-grade credit, over the
coming weeks in Europe.”  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings fell 8 basis
points this week to 378 basis points, the lowest since Sept. 19.
The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings dropped 2.7 basis points to 94 basis points, also
the lowest in more than three weeks.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  