-- Kerry Narrows Gap in Talks on Afghan Security Accord
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-10-11T21:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/kerry-narrows-gap-in-talks-on-afghan-security-accord.html
U.S. and Afghan officials led by
Secretary of State John Kerry and President Hamid Karzai met in
Kabul yesterday in an effort to conclude an accord that would
keep a limited U.S. military force in Afghanistan after 2014.  After the meeting, two American officials who participated
in the talks told reporters that while the two sides narrowed
their differences on most of the outstanding issues, the
discussions will continue today. The officials asked not to be
identified describing private diplomatic conversations.  Kerry’s visit, which wasn’t announced in advance for
security reasons, comes as disagreements jeopardize the U.S.
goal of reaching a bilateral security agreement by Oct. 31.
Karzai and President  Barack Obama  have flirted with accepting
failure in the talks, resulting in the U.S. abandoning plans for
a residual force of thousands of American troops to conduct
training and counterterrorism operations after next year.  The two leaders bridged gaps during about three hours of
talks, including a dinner meeting and a 10-minute one-on-one
walk, and they plan to meet again this morning, according to
U.S. officials who briefed reporters. The tone was constructive
as they delved into the details and worked on a proposed text,
the officials said.  Both sides have reasons to want a deal, so it’s “highly
unlikely” they’ll walk away, Waliullah Rahmani, executive
director of the Kabul Center for Strategic Studies, said before
Kerry’s arrival. Still, the talks are precarious because both
sides are engaging in “a fair amount of brinkmanship,” said
Stephen Biddle, a senior fellow for defense policy in Washington
at the Council on Foreign Relations, a research organization.  ‘Small Errors’  “It’s not really hard for relatively small errors on
either side to produce deadlock and failure,” Biddle said by
telephone. A complete U.S. military withdrawal, especially if
coupled with a cutoff of American funds for the Afghan security
forces, would be “catastrophic” for  Afghanistan , he said.  “In all likelihood, its military and security forces would
break up, and you probably would get something that looks a lot
like a return to the 1990s-style civil warfare in Afghanistan,”
he said. “That is not in Afghanistan’s interest; I don’t think
it is in the United States’ interest either.”  The U.S. now has about 52,000 troops in Afghanistan, down
14,000 in the past six months under a plan to reach 34,000 by
February and to have forces out by the end of 2014. Obama hasn’t
set a force level under a post-2014 accord, although it may be
lower than proposed by U.S. military commanders.  No final resolution of the disputes holding up an agreement
is expected during Kerry’s visit, and negotiations will continue
after he leaves, the U.S. officials said.  Pivotal Stage  Talks over the conditions on any U.S. troop presence after
2014 have reached a pivotal stage, and as in any sensitive
negotiation the thorniest issues are the last to be resolved,
the officials said.  The two leaders are seeking to reassure one another over
each side’s concerns and intentions, and to help their
negotiating teams get to the final stage. The U.S. officials
declined to say whether the negotiations would collapse if the
self-imposed Oct. 31 target date isn’t met, saying they believe
the goal is attainable.  Obama has outlined a limited military mission that he’s
willing to support after 2014: the training and assistance of
Afghan security forces and U.S. counterterrorism operations
against al-Qaeda -- so long as an agreement is reached that
legally safeguards American forces.  Force Recommendation  Retired U.S. Marine Corps General John Allen, who commanded
the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan until
February, said he had recommended to Obama that the U.S.
maintain a force of 13,600 and another 6,000 troops from allied
nations. That’s more than the 8,000 to 12,000 U.S. and allied
troops that then-Defense Secretary Leon Panetta spoke about
before stepping down in February.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel hasn’t said what level he
envisions. Administration officials have said that choices
reviewed by Obama, whose priority has been to end major U.S.
military commitments in  Iraq  and Afghanistan after more than a
decade, have included a “zero option” that would leave no U.S.
forces there after 2014.  The U.S. and its North Atlantic Treaty Organization
partners in Afghanistan need a legal framework before advancing
their plans for any troops or equipment that may be needed after
the withdrawal of their combat forces by the end of next year.
The more time that passes without a clear agreement, the harder
it is for both sides to plan, the U.S. officials said.  Economic Support  The fate of the bilateral security agreement has
implications beyond whether outside forces will remain to help
the Afghan government and be a symbolic bulwark against
insurgents. International economic support promised over the
next decade is unlikely to come through “without the security
platform to facilitate the investment,” Allen said Oct. 8.  Uncertainty about what will happen as U.S. and allied
troops withdraw has contributed to the decision by some Afghan
businessmen to leave the country and shift their operations to
Dubai and elsewhere. The uncertainty is compounded by scheduled
Afghan elections next year.  Any post-2014 American military commitment should be
coupled with a negotiated end to the war with the Taliban,
Biddle said.  The failure of similar talks with Iraq, which broke down on
the issue of legal immunity for American troops, led to a total
U.S. military withdrawal in 2011 that has been followed by
growing al-Qaeda attacks and sectarian violence.  Pakistan Shield  Karzai’s demand for a U.S. commitment to defend Afghanistan
from  Pakistan  -- its nuclear-armed neighbor and a U.S. ally that
also harbors elements of the Taliban and other extremist groups
-- is a non-starter, Biddle said.  “The United States can’t promise to invade Pakistan if the
Taliban use Pakistan as base camps for attacking Afghanistan,”
he said. “If Karzai is going to insist on that, then that’ll
blow up the deal.”  A second issue is the U.S. insistence on being permitted to
continue raids against al-Qaeda and other terrorist targets in
Afghanistan, said Aimal Faizi, a Karzai spokesman. The American
position on being able to conduct “independent counterterrorism
operations” undermines the country’s sovereignty, he told
reporters last week in Kabul.  The “night raids,” as American special forces call their
sorties, remain unpopular with the Afghan public even as the
U.S. has reduced civilian casualties.  Karzai may misunderstand “just how fatigued and fed up the
Obama administration is with him, and the American public and
Congress is with the endeavor” and “has the potential to push
too hard and be too intransigent with his demands,” Caroline Wadhams, a senior national security fellow at the Center for
American Progress, a Washington-based research group, said by
telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in  Washington  at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Kabul, Afghanistan at   ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  