-- King Says Tea Party Has Lost Shutdown Battle (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-10-11T21:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/king-says-tea-party-has-lost-shutdown-battle-transcript-.html
Representative  Peter King , a  New York 
Republican who opposed the partial U.S. government shutdown from
the start, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
 House Republicans  aligned with the Tea Party have lost their
fight with the president, and that Congress soon will open the
government and raise the debt ceiling.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: Welcome back. Congressman Peter King of New York
is with me.  Congressman, it is a mess right now. How - how do you think
we should get out of this government shutdown, C.R., and debt
ceiling?  What should be done right now?  PETER KING: By getting out of it as quickly as possible.
First of all, I think it was the right thing to do as far as the
debt ceiling, to put it over until, I guess, Nov. 22. That seems
to me the tentative agreement.  HUNT: Is that long enough?  KING: I think it’s long - yeah, sure, it is.  HUNT: OK.  KING: I mean, ideally, it should be a few months, but we’re
too far gone on that. Now, I would say it’s long enough. And the
president should make - should sit down and negotiate in good
faith with the Republicans.  As far as the opening up the government, we should just do
that right away, just clean continuing resolution, get that over
with, which is what we should have done a month ago. We should
have come back right after Labor Day, should have passed the
continuing resolution, and gone right to a debate on the debt
ceiling.  HUNT: If that bill came to the floor now for a clean C.R.,
a clean debt ceiling, until Nov. 22, would it pass the House?  KING: I think it would have passed earlier in the week
after the poll numbers have come out. It’s going to pass
overwhelmingly, yeah.  HUNT: It’ll pass overwhelmingly. OK. If - if the leadership
can’t force it because of that - the right-wing caucus, the  Tea
Party  caucus, why not force it?  Why not do a discharge
petition?  You’ve opposed that.  KING: Yeah, because I think it is - first of all, if we
have to do a discharge petition, ultimately, we will, but this
is going to come. I think John Boehner has wanted this moment
all along. He never wanted to close the government. He was
backed into it by this group of 30 or 40 people. Now he has the
leverage he needs, and I think it’s going to come to the House
floor, no matter what. If not, then we’ll have to seek some
other actions -  HUNT: Soon?  KING: Very soon. I think - hopefully, it’s going to be
resolved by the weekend or by Monday or Tuesday.  HUNT: Yeah. You know, he - I know you admire him a lot, and
- but you worry whether he’s a free agent. I interviewed  Jim
Jordan  of  Ohio  last week, and I asked him seven different ways
if he would take the vow that you’ve called on Republicans to
take, that they weren’t - they wouldn’t move on  John Boehner , no
matter what happened. He wouldn’t answer that question. He said
it’s not relevant.  John Boehner, the speaker, is trapped by his own Tea Party
caucus still, isn’t he?  KING: Yeah, he really is. That’s why I think John - again,
he’s the speaker, but somehow we have to draw this line. We
can’t allow 30 or 40 people to hijack the  Republican Party . I
mean, John told us first week in September, second week in
September, the worst thing we could do is shut down the
government because of Obamacare. And what did we end up doing?
Ten days later, 20 days later, shutting the government down
because of Obamacare, because these 30 or 40 people basically
threatened to bring the party down.  I think we’ve got to call them on it. We can’t allow a
small minority of a party to hijack it and, again, cause
catastrophic problems, not just for our party - that’s our
problem - but for the country. It’s 800,000 people out of work
because of 30 or 40 people.  HUNT: So this is the time to break them?  This is the time?  KING: I think so. And I think this may have worked. As bad
as it was and as - as brutal as it’s been, the fact that this
worked so badly, the fact that the strategy of the Tea Party, of
the Cruz Republicans,  Ted Cruz  Republicans, worked so badly,
that we are now down to 24 percent in the polls, 28 percent,
depending on which one you look at, that by almost 2 to 1 people
blame us, that could have been one way to weaken the Cruz
Republicans so now John can move forward.  HUNT: Cruz’s raison d’etre, of course, was to end
Obamacare.  KING: Right.  HUNT: Is that now dead?  I mean, do we know, whether you
like - I know you didn’t like Obamacare, but is it going to be a
reality for the next three years, whether Ted Cruz likes it or
not?  KING: I think it’s going to be a reality until we have
another presidential election, yeah. I mean, it really is. And
Ted Cruz - I mean, here’s a guy - you look at him, you step
back, how did a guy eight months in the Senate be able to
dominate the House Republicans, Senate Republicans, tie up the
country, and bring the government to a halt with no end game, no
strategy, and then now just sort of walk away, as if he’s done
his job?  HUNT: Let me just say on Obamacare for a second.  KING: Sure.  HUNT: Would you - you say it’s going to be a reality until
the next presidential election. Could there be some small
changes, for instance, to the medical device tax?  KING: Oh, yeah, absolutely. When I say reality, Obamacare
itself is not going to be defunded. That’s what I meant the
reality.  HUNT: Right. And the mandate’s going to continue?  KING: Yeah. But as far as the medical device tax, that’s
certainly something - I think that could be part of the
negotiations even on the debt ceiling, as we go forward. And
obviously, there can be changes.  Now, interestingly, some of the Cruz Republicans don’t want
us to make any modifications to Obamacare, because they want it
to collapse. And to me, that’s really - you know, that goes
against the country. I mean, I’m against Obamacare; I want to
repeal. But in the meantime, if we can eliminate some of the
parts of it that don’t work or could work better, let’s do it.  HUNT: Pete King, we talk about, though, the - once we get
through this starting negotiations, why are - why is the
environment - why is the atmosphere any better than it was in
2011, when that supercommittee failed?  It seems to me, if
anything, the right and left may have dug in their heels more.  KING: I think that the president and John Boehner -
especially now after the Cruz Republicans have suffered this
massive defeat, which they really have - I think John is in a
better position to - to move a bit. I think the president sees
the opportunity. His election is behind him now. He’s going for
a legacy. And I think everyone realizes behind the scenes, there
does have to be some entitlement reform. There does have to be
some  tax reform .  Now, we can debate how much there should be, but the
president realizes that - and this may be an opportunity to get
it done, because once you’re in next year, it’s congressional
elections. And as bad as Republicans can be, I mean, the
Democratic caucus, they don’t want to make any concessions,
either. The president could be in a stronger position right now
to impose it on his party; John can impose it on the Cruz
Republicans.  HUNT: So to get a detail, we’re talking about genuine
entitlement reform, which means things like chained CPI and
means-testing, and when we talk about tax reform, we’re talking
about not higher tax rates, but more revenue?  KING: That’s basically as I see it, yeah. And I think  Paul
Ryan  has pretty much laid out what the Republicans position is.
And I think the Democrats can - the president can work off that.  HUNT: Can Paul Ryan agree to higher revenues?  KING: I don’t want to speak for Paul Ryan.  HUNT: OK.  KING: But even - again, higher revenues, if they come in
because of different deductions, whatever - again, I don’t want
to speak for Paul Ryan. I can speak for myself.  HUNT: Speak for Peter King on that.  KING: Yeah, I think, yes, we can. We can certainly make
some concessions. We can call - call it whatever we want. I
mean, Ronald Reagan actually agreed to outright tax increases
any number of times. To me -  HUNT: Called it revenue enhancements.  KING: Right. There you go. Like in the last presidential
campaign, when they asked everyone in the debates, if you got
$10 in cuts for every $1 in tax increase, would you take that
and every Republican candidate said no? That’s crazy.  HUNT: Yeah.  KING: If you go into negotiations and you get 10 to 1, you
take it and you run.  HUNT: Let me turn to intelligence. And you raised the
possibility a week or so ago that the - that the al-Shabaab in
Somalia may have had advance warning on the raid that took
place. From what you have learned since then, do you now think
they did have advance warning?  KING: You know, to me, clearly something went wrong. We’ve
not found out yet what it was. But either the intelligence was
poor or someone was tipped off.  HUNT: You have flirted, maybe even more than that, with the
idea of running for president in 2016. What are the
probabilities?  And what would make Peter King stand out?  KING: Well, as far as - again, I am looking at it. I mean,
my name’s been mentioned. I’ve been to  New Hampshire  a number of
times, have been invited to speak at a number of events,
obviously, made no decision. I think people are looking for
leadership.  And even, for instance, on this whole thing with the Ted
Cruz and the shutdown, I don’t know if any other Republican in
the country that out and out came out and condemned Ted Cruz and
said this is wrong. Nobody in Congress did. And other leaders
around the country seemed like they wanted to wait until it was
over and then come in or say we have to -  HUNT: Including  Chris Christie .  KING: Well, again, look, I’m not going to target Chris
Christie. But the fact is that nobody else spoke. And I think
people want leadership. I was there. I took a chance when Ted
Cruz was the darling of the Republicans. It was only two weeks
ago, but he was the darling of Republicans. I was the only guy
taking him on nationwide.  So I think people want leadership. They want a pragmatic
conservative, a guy who can work, like  Ronald Reagan , building
trade unions, cops, firefighters, tough on the - on national
security, on  homeland security , and is going to fight for the
great Jack Kemp-type economic plan.  HUNT: All right. Give me the odds right now that Pete King
runs.  KING: Oh, I don’t know. I would say, if I get a good
response, I’ll run. I’m going all out - all out as far as taking
advantage of opportunities to go up and speak, speak for other
candidates, and if I pick up good vibes, I’ll take it from
there.  HUNT: Peter King, you’d be fun to cover. Thank you so much
for being with us today.  KING: Thank you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 