-- Kremlin Adviser Likens Greenpeace Piracy Charge to Gang Rape
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-10-11T12:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/kremlin-adviser-likens-greenpeace-piracy-charges-to-gang-rape.html
President  Vladimir Putin ’s human
rights adviser urged prosecutors to drop piracy charges against
Greenpeace activists for an Arctic protest, saying it’s as
stupid as accusing them of raping the oil platform they scaled.  “These charges are laughable because there isn’t the
slightest justification for accusing the crew of the Arctic
Sunrise of piracy,” Mikhail Fedotov said in an interview in
Moscow. “They might just as well have charged them with gang
rape of the platform.”  The prosecution of 28  Greenpeace  activists and two
journalists from 18 countries, who each face as long as 15 years
in prison, is damaging Russia’s international reputation,
according to Fedotov. They should be charged with minor
hooliganism at the most, which carries a maximum of sentence of
15 days in jail, he said.  The case has provoked a diplomatic row as the Netherlands
seeks to force  Russia  to release the Dutch-registered Arctic
Sunrise and its crew, which were seized after two  Greenpeace 
protesters climbed an OAO Gazprom rig Sept. 18 in the Pechora
Sea. Putin is already facing criticism in  Europe  and the U.S.
for cracking down on political opponents after extending his 13-year-rule in elections last year.  A court in the port city of Murmansk, where the 30 people
are being held, today refused to free two Britons on bail,
Greenpeace said by e-mail. Three other campaigners and a Russian
freelance photographer failed to win release earlier this week,
with further bail hearings expected next week.  Targeting Gazprom  The environmental group plans to target  Gazprom (GAZP)  and
European companies that buy its gas to secure the activists’
release, Executive Director Kumi Naidoo said in an interview
Oct. 9. The group is considering a campaign urging consumers to
protest against Russia’s largest company, which supplies about a
quarter of the European Union’s gas, Naidoo said.  The investigators who filed the piracy charges should be
fined and the money should be used to improve Russia’s image in
the world, Fedotov said.  “Those people who charged the crew of Arctic Sunrise with
piracy should be made to finance two or three global tours by
the Bolshoi,” Fedotov said, referring to Moscow’s leading
ballet and opera company. “I’ve long called for such
individuals who cause harm to the country’s reputation to be
forced to pay compensation.”  Council Appeals  The Presidential Human Rights  Council , which Fedotov heads,
will appeal to the Prosecutor General’s Office, the head of the
Investigative Committee and maybe even Foreign Minister  Sergei
Lavrov  himself to drop the piracy charges, said Fedotov.  Putin said Sept. 25 that while the Greenpeace campaigners
“clearly” aren’t pirates, they violated international law by
trying to seize a drilling platform. They also alarmed
officials, who didn’t know who was attempting to take over the
facility, Putin said.  Russia’s Coast Guard boarded Greenpeace’s Arctic Sunrise
ship in international waters on Sept. 19 and towed the vessel to
Murmansk, near  Finland  and Norway.  The Investigative Committee said earlier this week it found
drugs on the ship and accused some activists of trying to ram a
Coast Guard craft, warning that more serious charges may be
forthcoming. Greenpeace denied the boat was carrying narcotics
and said it’s “a fantasy” that campaigners sought to hit a
boat carrying border guards.  Arctic Oil  Gazprom plans to become the first Russian company to start
producing oil in the Arctic offshore as soon as this year.
Greenpeace activists scaled the same platform in 2012.  The captain of Arctic Sunrise, American Peter Wilcox, who’s
among the 30 people detained in Murmansk, was in charge of
Greenpeace’s Rainbow Warrior when it was sunk in Auckland in
1985 by a bomb planted by the French intelligence service.  The activists include citizens of the U.S., Finland,
 Argentina ,  Switzerland , the U.K., Australia, Brazil,  Canada ,
 Denmark , the Netherlands,  New Zealand , Ukraine, Russia, France,
 Italy ,  Turkey , Poland and Sweden, according to Greenpeace.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  