-- Natural Gas Gains in Survey as Colder Weather to Boost Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-10-11T11:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/natural-gas-gains-in-survey-as-colder-weather-to-boost-demand.html
Natural gas futures may advance next
week as forecasts for cooler U.S. weather signaled increased
demand for the power-plant and heating fuel.  Seven of 10 analysts, or 70 percent, predicted that futures
will gain on the New York Mercantile Exchange through Oct. 18.
Two, or 20 percent, said gas will fall and one predicted prices
will stay the same. Last week, 64 percent of participants said
gas would decline.  Below-normal temperatures in the central states next week
will sweep into the Northeast from Oct. 20 through Oct. 24,
according to MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .
Energy Information Administration data yesterday showed an
above-average  stockpile increase  for the third straight week.
The U.S. government shutdown may delay future supply reports.  “We suspect that the soon-to-be absence of the weekly EIA
supply data will likely keep prices supported over the next week
as investors focus ahead on winter heating demand,” Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in
New York, said in an e-mail yesterday. “No data is good data
for gas buyers.”  Natural gas futures jumped 21.7 cents, or 6.2 percent, to
$3.723 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week on the Nymex, rising to the highest settlement
price since Sept. 17. The futures are up 11 percent this year.  Cold Weather  The cold weather will be centered in the Great Plains next
week and drive down to  Texas , MDA said. The low in  Minneapolis 
on Oct. 18 may drop to 33 degrees Fahrenheit (1 Celsius), 6
below normal, from the 50s this week, according to AccuWeather
Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania .  Almost half of U.S. households rely on gas for heating
while 39 percent use electricity, data show from the EIA, the
statistical arm of the Energy Department. The heating season
from November through March is the peak period for  gas
consumption .  Supplies rose 90 billion cubic feet in the week ended Oct.
4 to 3.577 trillion cubic feet, above the five-year average gain
of 84 billion for the seven days, according to the EIA. Analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg predicted a gain of 92 billion.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  7      2      1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  