-- N.Y. State Parks Outdoor Smoking Ban Is Blocked by Court
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-11T22:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/new-york-state-parks-outdoor-smoking-ban-blocked.html
New York ’s ban on outdoor smoking in
state parks was blocked by a judge after a smokers’-rights group
argued that the Office of Parks, Recreation & Historic
Preservation exceeded its authority.  Supreme Court Justice George B. Ceresia Jr. in Troy, in a
ruling dated Oct. 8 and made public today, permanently blocked
the office from implementing or enforcing the ban and ordered
any signs referring to it removed.  The parks office extended its actions “into the realm of
legislating,” Ceresia wrote, saying state law doesn’t give it
the right to promulgate rules “regulating conduct bearing any
tenuous relationship to park patrons’ health or welfare.”  Andrew Friedman, a spokesman for state Attorney General
Eric Schneiderman, said that office is reviewing the decision
with parks officials. The Office of Parks, Recreation & Historic
Preservation said in a statement it has legislative authority to
“manage a wide variety of activities within state parks to
balance often conflicting uses of our patrons.”  “We believe this authority extends to the regulation of
outdoor smoking on playgrounds, swimming pools, beaches and
other locations where children and visitors congregate,” the
parks office said. “We are considering an appeal of the court’s
decision.”  Picnic Areas  A regulation adopted in February allowed the agency to
designate outdoor no-smoking zones in 179 state parks and 35
historic sites, including swimming beaches, picnic areas and
boardwalks.  The organization  New York City  Citizens Lobbying Against
Smoker Harassment sued in April to block the actions.  “This is putting the prohibitionists on notice that
despite their ugly war being waged on adults who choose to
smoke, they are not entitled to a free-for-all in governing when
it comes to this segment of society,” Audrey Silk, founder of
the group, said today in a statement.  New York City banned smoking in almost all workplaces and
indoor recreational venues in March 2003, and the state
Legislature followed with a similar ban four months later.  Similar Measure  The ban on smoking in state parks also followed a similar
measure by the city that  banned  the activity in city parks,
beaches, boardwalks, golf courses and pedestrian plazas.
Measures to curb tobacco use, including higher taxes and
restrictions on displays of cigarettes, have been a centerpiece
of New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s efforts to improve
public health since he took office in 2002.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP. He is prevented by law from seeking a
fourth four-year term.  “Nothing in this decision is intended to circumscribe
respondents’ legitimate powers,” the judge wrote. “Nor is this
decision intended to express an opinion on the wisdom of
outdoor smoking regulations, provided that they are enacted by
the government body with the authority to do so.”  The case is NYC CLASH Inc. v. New York State Office of
Parks, Recreation & Historic Preservation, 2218/2013, New York
State Supreme Court, Albany County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan 
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 