-- Nigeria Plans Regular Bond Sales in Bid to Build Yield Curve
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-10-11T00:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/nigeria-plans-regular-bond-sales-in-bid-to-build-yield-curve.html
Nigeria  is planning to raise debt
abroad regularly as  Africa ’s largest oil producer seeks to
develop a benchmark for borrowers, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said.  The government returned to international debt markets for
the first time in two years in July, issuing $1 billion in five-year and 10-year Eurobonds. The country now plans to raise $100
million by selling so-called diaspora bonds targeted at citizens
living overseas.  “If it succeeds, we’ll do more,” Okonjo-Iweala told
 Bloomberg News  in  Washington  yesterday, adding that the sale
will take place in the first quarter of next year. “We intend
to enter the market on a regular basis because we’re trying to
build a yield curve.”  Nigerians abroad would have sent $21 billion home by the
end of 2013, according to World Bank figures, and the government
wants “to tap some of that,” Okonjo-Iweala said. The nation is
stepping up debt sales to finance infrastructure as it faces
inadequate budget allocations for  capital spending .  The yield on Nigeria’s $500 million in Eurobonds due July
2023 dropped 18 basis points this month to 5.94 percent
yesterday, the lowest level since July 23, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Nigerian economy may expand 6.75 percent next year,
compared with an estimate of 6.5 percent in 2013, Okonjo-Iweala
said. The  budget deficit  will stay little changed at 1.9 percent
of gross domestic product, she added.  “The outlook is reasonably good,” she said. “We are
keeping a tight fiscal balance. We believe in fiscal
consolidation with growth. Whatever fiscal space we create we’re
going to use that to tackle the bottlenecks, and for us, they
are power and infrastructure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  