-- Nobel Prize Money Boosts Chemical Arms Group Seeking Syria Funds
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-10-11T18:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/nobel-prize-money-boosts-chemical-arms-group-seeking-syria-funds.html
The Organization for the Prohibition
of Chemical Weapons, which must come up with money to pay for
finding and monitoring  Syria ’s chemical weapons, got an
unanticipated $1.2 million windfall today.  The intergovernmental chemical arms watchdog agency, based
in  The Hague , was awarded the 8 million-krona Nobel Peace Prize.  That’s just a fraction of the anticipated cost of
implementing the Sept. 27 United Nations Security Council
resolution on elimination of Syria’s toxic chemicals arsenal, a
project that country’s President Bashar al-Assad said could cost
as much as $1 billion.  The OPCW and the UN are still working to estimate costs for
the first such operation mounted in the midst of a civil war.
More than 100,000 people have died since March 2011 in the
Syrian conflict.  The OPCW, with 189  member states , is the lead technical
agency on the project to dispose of tons of chemical agents and
precursors in Syria by the middle of next year.  The group so far has received more than $8 million in
pledges and initial contributions from the U.K.,  the
Netherlands ,  Germany  and  Ireland . UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has allocated an initial $2 million to an advance team that
arrived in Damascus Oct. 1 to begin the job.  The UN Security Council will soon authorize creation of a
joint UN-OPCW mission to oversee all verification and monitoring
of chemical weapons elimination in Syria, as proposed by Ban on
Oct. 7.  Trust Funds  The UN and the OPCW will set up separate trust funds to
finance their activities, Ban said. The UN chief is authorized
to allocate as much as $10 million of regular budget funding per
year for “unforeseen and extraordinary” expenditures and will
continue allocating $2 million a month for the Syria weapons
operation until December, UN Under-Secretary-General for
Management Yukio Takasu told  Bloomberg News  on Oct. 9.  The OPCW’s activities regarding Syria will be financed from
this year’s $70 million regular budget, aided by contributions
from member states, OPCW spokesman Michael Luhan said yesterday
by telephone.  Calculations of total costs for the destruction of Syrian
chemical weapons by next June 30 won’t be complete until UN and
OPCW advance teams in Syria finish initial inspections of
chemical weapons arsenals and arms production locations, he
said.  “It’s going to be a complicated mapping exercise, and we
will have to put that against all the offers we got in cash and
in kind and we will have to wait for some weeks to have a
detailed plan ready to present,” he said. “By Nov. 15, we
should be in a position to offer some broad figures for what all
of this is going to cost.”  The UN Security Council resolution requires the Syrian
government to complete the destruction of production and mixing
equipment by Nov. 1 and for OPCW inspectors to complete surveys
of reported arsenals and stockpiles by the same date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  United Nations  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  