-- North Korea Allows Mother of Detained American to Visit Son
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-10-11T09:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/north-korea-permits-kenneth-bae-s-mother-to-visit-him-in-jail.html
North Korea  allowed the mother of
Kenneth Bae to visit her ailing son almost a year after the
American tour operator and missionary was detained and sentenced
to 15 years hard labor for “hostile acts.”  Myunghee Bae saw her son at a hospital in Pyongang where
he’s being treated for various ailments, Kyodo news service
reported, citing comments by Bae. His health didn’t look “that
bad,” she told Kyodo.  Kenneth Bae was arrested while on a tour in a northeastern
North Korean city in November 2012, and sentenced after a trial
on April 30, further straining relations between the U.S. and
the Kim Jong Un regime. The North has periodically detained
Americans, sometimes seeking to barter their release for
concessions from the U.S.  In a video posted to the family’s  website  before she left
her home in  Seattle , Myunghee Bae said her heart was “broken
into pieces” when she saw a prison interview with her son from
July. “He looked so different and he lost so much weight,” she
said in the video. “I could not believe that prisoner was my
son.”  Bae first worked in the fields at a labor camp until two
months ago, when he was hospitalized for health reasons, his
mother said in the video.  Visit Canceled  The U.S. doesn’t have diplomatic relations with North
Korea, complicating efforts to work for Bae’s release. In
August, Robert King, the State Department’s special envoy on
North Korean  human rights , was due to travel to North Korea to
seek Bae’s freedom in what would have been the first visit by a
U.S. official in more than two years. North Korea withdrew the
invitation at the last minute.  “We remain gravely concerned about Mr. Bae’s health and we
continue to urge the DPRK authorities to grant Mr. Bae special
amnesty and immediate release on humanitarian grounds,” Nolan
Barkhouse, spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, said by
phone.  North and  South Korea  remain divided along one of the
world’s most fortified borders 60 years after the  Korean War 
ended in a stalemate. Tensions on the peninsula have heightened
since February, when North Korea tested its third nuclear device
and then threatened first strikes against the U.S. and South
Korea over United Nations sanctions imposed after the Feb. 12
blast.  The U.S. maintains more than 28,000 troops in South Korea
to defend against possible attacks from the North.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in  Hong Kong  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  