-- Obama Signs Military Death-Benefit Bill Congress Passed
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-10-11T04:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/obama-signs-military-death-benefits-bill-passed-by-congress.html
President  Barack Obama  signed
legislation to resume paying death benefits to the families of
U.S. military personnel that Congress passed after the aid had
lapsed because of the government shutdown.  Lawmakers approved the measure even as there was
disagreement about the need for it. The Defense Department
earlier this week had contracted with the  Fisher House
Foundation , which supports military families, to make the
$100,000 payments for the duration of the government shutdown.  The White House announced last night that Obama had signed
the legislation into law even though his spokesman,  Jay Carney ,
earlier in the day had said “the legislation’s not necessary”
because of the agreement with the foundation.  Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , the chamber’s second-ranking
Republican, pressed yesterday for final action on the special
appropriation to pay the death benefit, saying the Pentagon may
not have had the authority for the contract. Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, consented to Cornyn’s
request and, with no other senator raising an objection, the
bill was sent to Obama without a recorded vote.  The bill passed unanimously on Oct. 9 in  House of
Representatives .  Funding ‘Stream’  Enacting a new law “would alleviate the need for Fisher
House and the  Department of Defense  trying to figure out” how
to ensure the payments continue and “open a stream of funding
so these families get the benefits they deserve,” Cornyn said.  No one in Congress argued against providing the payments
while other parts of the government aren’t operating. Instead,
the focus was on who should be blamed for the temporary
interruption of the payments and who should get credit for
restoring them.  Cornyn’s page on Facebook Inc.’s website said that he and
other Republicans forced Reid “to surrender and allow the
families of our fallen heroes to receive death gratuities and
survivor benefits.”  House Republicans  said the Pentagon had misinterpreted a
law previously enacted to pay military salaries during a partial
shutdown. Carney countered that government lawyers determined
the legislation didn’t cover the tax-exempt military death
benefits because it didn’t explicitly mention them.  Obamacare Dispute  “These benefits were held up because Republicans wanted to
defund Obamacare,” Carney said at yesterday’s news briefing,
referring to the national health-care law approved in 2010.
“From the beginning we were arguing, don’t shut down the
government. We specifically through the Department of Defense
noted this specific consequence.”  “There is an obvious fix to avoid all these negative
consequences,” Carney said. “Open the government.”  Carney also said that it was because Obama ordered White
House Chief of Staff  Denis McDonough  to “get creative and get
it solved” that the Pentagon arrangement was hastily reached
with the foundation to pay the benefits.  Even though he agreed to the bill’s passage, Reid said
there was no need for it.  “It’s clear the action on this legislation is now just for
show,” he said.  The death-benefit issue came to a head following five U.S.
military combat deaths in  Afghanistan  over the past weekend. In
all, 29 military personnel have died while on active duty since
the shutdown began on Oct. 1, Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale
told a House Armed Services subcommittee yesterday.  The Defense Department announced its contract with Fisher
Foundation House just minutes after the House vote on the
benefits bill.  Foundation’s Work  Started in 1990, Fisher House has built 62 residences that
provide temporary lodging for families of hospitalized military
personnel and veterans, according to its  website . Its chairman
and chief executive officer,  Kenneth Fisher , is a senior partner
at New York-based Fisher Brothers Realty Corp.  Dave Coker, the foundation’s president, said the group
created a $4 million emergency-assistance fund to cover the
death benefits during the shutdown. The families of fallen
service personnel “shouldn’t be paying a financial price,” he
said by telephone. “They’ve already paid a price” with the
death of a loved one.  The legislation is H.J.Res. 91.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  