-- Oil Traders Lose Key Market Data With Government Shutdown
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-10-11T19:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/oil-traders-lose-key-market-data-with-government-shutdown.html
Oil traders are losing a key weekly
report on supplies because of the U.S. government shutdown,
threatening to reduce market volume and boost volatility.  The Energy Information Administration said today it ceased
operations and furloughed staff, stopping publications including
the 34-year-old Weekly Petroleum Status Report on Wednesdays,
which includes crude oil and gasoline data. The suspension means
the market will turn to commercial reports from organizations
such as the American Petroleum Institute, an industry-funded
group that gives paying subscribers first access to the
information.  Traders already lost a separate weekly government report on
hedge funds’ holdings of futures and options positions. The EIA
stoppage may add uncertainty to the market, potentially
discouraging data-driven traders from placing bets and
increasing market volatility.  “Losing any such really high-quality data source would be
worrying,” said Julius Walker, global energy markets strategist
at UBS Securities LLC in New York. “It would create a lot more
uncertainty and possibly volatility in oil prices because we’d
just have less of an idea of what’s going on. The API numbers
are based on a voluntary survey, so they don’t capture all the
companies.”  First Stoppage  The EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, is closed
because of a lapse in funding and its website stopped updating
from 1 p.m. Eastern time today, the agency said. Data releases
and analysis will not be published during the furlough and the
website and social media won’t be updated,  Jonathan Cogan , a
spokesman in  Washington , said in an e-mail. EIA’s 346 federal
workers and 215 contractors will be affected, the agency said.  “It’s definitely a less clear trading landscape for us and
we are going to pull back,” said John Kilduff, a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on
energy. “I am sure a lot of other fundamental traders will do
the same.”  The agency’s weekly report, started in April 1979, has
never encountered interruptions related to a government
shutdown, Cogan said. It  delayed  the Feb. 9 report in 2010 for
two days as a snowstorm forced federal offices in Washington to
close. The EIA also publishes a natural gas inventory report
every Thursday.  Oil and gas markets may be more volatile as the reports are
suspended and traders speculate on changes in supplies,
according to Bob Yawger, director of the futures division at
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York.  EIA Report  “We’re going to see increased volatility because the
market won’t know what the actual storage number is,” Yawger
said. “The assumption would be that both crude and natural gas
inventories will tend to build at a quicker rate in the next
couple of reports, but there’s a degree of uncertainty.”  The petroleum report, based on a weekly mandatory survey of
energy market players including producers and refineries,
includes inventory levels of crude oil,  gasoline  and distillate
fuel, as well as the storage levels at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for WTI futures traded in New York.  “There are some traders that just won’t trade because they
don’t have anything to trade on,” said Phil Flynn, senior
market analyst at the Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “But one
person’s problem could be another person’s opportunity. Some
people may be able to take advantage of thin volume and possibly
higher volatility.”  Planned Release  The EIA had been scheduled to release next week’s report on
Oct. 17, a day later than normal because of the Columbus Day
holiday. Genscape Inc., which uses infrared cameras to measure
storage levels, said it plans to post its data on Cushing
inventories free for the public at 10:30 a.m. Oct. 17.  The API’s Weekly Statistical Bulletin, started in June
1929, provides less data than the EIA report. The Washington-based organization releases the report Tuesdays at 4:30 p.m. to
subscribers who pay a $160 monthly fee. Bloomberg customers can
get the report by paying $120 a month through the terminal.
Newswires including Bloomberg and Reuters are allowed to print
the data at 4:35 p.m. to general readers.  “You can go to jail if you don’t contribute to the DOE and
if you contribute bad numbers they can sue you,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in St. Louis, which oversees $1.4 billion. “The API
asks its members to contribute. The members sometimes don’t, and
sometimes they give the API incomplete numbers.”  API Data  Carlton Carroll, an API spokesman in Washington, said the
institute’s data are “reliable and accurate.” Next week’s
report will be published on Oct. 16, a day later than normal
because of the Columbus Day holiday, he said.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the San Antonio-based biggest
independent refiner in the U.S., is not a member of the API and
doesn’t participate in the weekly survey, said Bill Day, a
company spokesman.  Valero produced 910,000 barrels a day of distillate fuel,
including heating oil and diesel, in the second quarter,
according to the company’s earnings release. That’s about 20
percent of the 4.66 million-barrel-a-day U.S. output reported by
the  EIA . The company operates a plant in the U.K. that produces
about 100,000 barrels a day of distillates.  “Their lack of participation means that API’s distillate
figures are essentially worthless,” said Tom Finlon, Jupiter,
Florida-based director of energy fund Energy Analytics Group
LLC.  Oil Output  The closure of the EIA came at a time when 24-year high
crude production has boosted inventories and reduced price
fluctuation in West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S.
benchmark.  Implied volatility for at-the-money December options, a
measure of expected futures swings and a key gauge of value,
dropped to 19.8 percent on Oct. 4, the lowest level since April.
The gauge was at 20 percent at 3:55 p.m., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  WTI futures fell 99 cents, or 1 percent, to settle at
$102.02 a barrel today on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Prices slid 1.8 percent this week and are up 11 percent this
year.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission said on Oct. 1
that it will not publish data including the weekly Commitment of
Traders report during the government shutdown. The COT report,
normally released on Friday afternoons, covers futures positions
held by producers and hedge funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  