-- Mol Drops to 16-Month Low on S&P Rating Warning: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-10-11T16:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/mol-drops-to-16-month-low-on-s-p-rating-warning-budapest-mover.html
Mol Nyrt. tumbled to the lowest
level in more than 16 months after Standard and Poor’s said it
may cut the credit rating of Hungary’s largest refiner if the
company fails to retain its stake in a Croatian unit.  The  stock  fell 1.5 percent to 15,160 forint by the close in
Budapest, the weakest level since May 2012. The company’s BB+
rating may be downgraded one notch to match Hungary’s as
disposal or reduction of the INA Industrija Nafte DD holding
could expose Mol to the nation’s “weak” economy, S&P said in
an e-mailed statement.  Shares of Budapest-based Mol have slumped more than 5
percent since  Croatia  issued an arrest warrant against Chairman
 Zsolt Hernadi  on Oct. 1 as part of a bribery probe into the 2009
deal that gave the refiner control of INA. Mol, which  owns  49.1
percent of the company headquartered in Zagreb, is in talks with
the Croatian government over management rights in the unit.  “Uncertainties justify S&P’s opinion,” Peter Szentirmai,
a Budapest-based analyst at KBC Securities, said in an e-mail.
“Given pending negotiations with Croatia, we continue to
believe that Mol’s share price could remain under pressure.”  INA produced 38 percent of Mol’s hydrocarbon output in the
first half, according to an earnings report. The Hungarian
company’s shares have retreated almost 10 percent in the past
three months, the steepest decline among 16 eastern European
energy companies  tracked  by Bloomberg. INA has the second-worst
showing with a drop of 6.9 percent.  Hungary  lost its investment grade credit rating in 2011
after the government nationalized private pension fund assets
and levied retroactive industry taxes in an effort to shore up
public finances. The Cabinet forecasts economic growth of 0.7
percent this year after a contraction of 1.7 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  