-- Tombini Says Brazil Central Bank Pursuing Inflation Target
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-10-11T19:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/tombini-says-brazil-central-bank-goal-is-to-hit-inflation-target.html
Brazil  central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said policy makers are committed to their 4.5
percent inflation target, prompting traders to increase bets the
key rate will be lifted half a percentage point next month.  “We at the central bank are committed to bringing
inflation down,” Tombini told reporters today in Washington.
“The central bank’s objective is to ensure the target, which is
a government target set by the National Monetary Council, is
reached.”  Brazil’s central bank this week raised the benchmark Selic
by a half-point for a fourth consecutive meeting, pushing
borrowing costs to 9.5 percent. Tombini is carrying out the
world’s biggest tightening cycle in a bid to tame consumer
prices that have remained above the mid-point of the target for
the past three years.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo  today, extended earlier gains and rose seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 10.35 percent at 3:59
p.m. local time. The real strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.1783 per
 U.S. dollar .  Tombini said inflation this year will ease below last
year’s 5.84 percent while continuing to slow in 2014.  “What’s in play is 2014 inflation,”  Andre Perfeito , chief
economist at Gradual Investimento, said by phone. “Tombini is
trying to control long-term inflation expectations, and he is
also acting by raising  interest rates .”  Analysts surveyed weekly by the central bank forecast
inflation will accelerate to 6 percent in 2014 from 5.8 percent
in 2013, according to the latest survey published Oct. 7.
Inflation in the year through  September (BZPIIPCY)  was 5.86 percent, the
national statistics agency said on Oct. 9, the slowest since
December.  Brazil’s central bank targets annual inflation at 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  