-- Osborne Vows Budget Rigor as Autumn Statement Set for Dec. 4
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-10-11T17:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/osborne-vows-budget-rigor-as-autumn-statement-set-for-dec-4.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  said improvements in economic growth won’t diminish his
commitment to cutting the U.K.’s  budget deficit , as he revealed
he will announce new fiscal forecasts on Dec. 4.  “I still sit round that table at the G-20 with one of the
highest budget deficits,” Osborne told reporters in  Washington 
today. “Britain continues to have some very serious public
finance challenges that need to be addressed, and although we’ve
brought the deficit down by a third it’s still too high. Where
we’ve got resources available we’ve got to make sure we’re doing
what we can to reduce the deficit.”  While Britain’s  economic recovery  is now gathering pace,
weaker-than-forecast tax receipts forced Osborne to abandon his
original goal of finishing his deficit-cutting program by 2015.
The chancellor pledged last month to run a  budget surplus  by
2020 if his  Conservative Party  is re-elected in 2015, implying
that he will carry on squeezing welfare and government spending
beyond the current 2018 forecasting horizon to meet the new
fiscal target.  “We have a clear economic plan, we’ve stuck to that
plan,” said Osborne, who is in Washington attending the
International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting. “I’m very far
from feeling the job is done. We’re still in the very early
stages of the recovery.”  Osborne said he will announce revised budget forecasts and
details of new measures in his Autumn Statement in early
December. In March, his fiscal watchdog, the  Office for Budget
Responsibility , predicted the economy would grow 0.6 percent
this year.  Growth Predictions  Since then, growth has been faster than predicted, and
economists now see expansion of 1.4 percent in 2013 and 2.2
percent next year, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  Osborne also defended his Help to Buy program that allows
people with minimal deposits to buy a home costing as much as
600,000 pounds ($956,000.) The second phase -- government
guarantees for banks willing to finance 95 percent of the
purchase price -- was introduced this week, three months earlier
than planned, fueling criticism from lawmakers and economists
that a  housing bubble  is brewing.  “It’s addressing a very specific problem which is a
consequence of the financial crisis, which is the lack of
availability of high loan-to-value mortgages which were a common
feature of the U.K. housing market for many decades,” Osborne
said. “We are fixing what has gone wrong in our financial
system. It’s the right policy instrument to deal with a specific
problem in our housing market.”  Asked whether the  Bank of England  should have direct powers
over loan-to-value ratios rather than powers of recommendation,
Osborne said its Financial Policy Committee could request the
tool as part of its annual review of the housing market each
September.  “I don’t’ want to preempt a request that hasn’t even
come,” Osborne said. “I said to the FPC you tell us the tools
you want and they did not ask us for that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  