-- Lotte Studied Bid for China Department Store Operator Springland
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   H e e s u   L e e
-- 2013-10-11T01:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/lotte-studied-bid-for-china-department-store-operator-springland.html
Lotte Group, a South Korean
conglomerate, said it has studied an acquisition of Chinese
department-store operator  Springland International Holdings Ltd. (1700) 
though is no longer considering an offer.  “We once looked at Springland but we are not considering a
bid right now,” Han Bo Young, spokeswoman at Lotte Group, said
by phone yesterday. Lotte Group moved away from a potential deal
in the first half of this year, said a person with knowledge of
the matter who asked for anonymity because the deliberations are
confidential.  An acquisition of Springland, with a  market value  of
HK$10.9 billion ($1.4 billion) would have been Lotte Group’s
biggest and its first since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Chinese President Xi Jinping is pursuing policies aimed at
bolstering  consumer spending  as the nation grapples with the
environmental fallout of its export-led growth.  Springland’s first-half profit rose about 14 percent from a
year earlier as sales advanced. The company’s shares have
advanced 16 percent in Hong Kong in the past 12 months, beating
the benchmark  Hang Seng Index ’s 9.3 percent gain.  A Hong Kong-based investor relations official at Springland
declined to comment on Lotte Group’s interest.  The company is valued at 12.1 times earnings, below the
average ratio of 27.8 for Chinese department-store operators,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Beijing Wangfujing Dongan Group Co. bought high-end
department store owner  PCD Stores Group Ltd. (331)  for about $641
million earlier this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
deal valued PCD Stores at 25.6 times earnings, according to the
data. Lotte Shopping Co., a unit of Lotte Group, operates five
department stores in China and one each in Russia and Indonesia
in addition to its 44 outlets in  South Korea , the company said
in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in  Hong Kong  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Heesu Lee in Seoul at 
 hlee425@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  