-- Overseas Cash Complicated as Shutdown Seen Delaying Deals: Taxes
-- B y   A l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-10-11T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/overseas-cash-complicated-as-shutdown-seen-delaying-deals-taxes.html
Foreign bank accounts, already under
scrutiny by U.S. regulators, have a new set of complications
created by the government shutdown.  The rollout of the  Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act  is
tougher with the partial U.S. government closing, which may lead
to delays in guidance on the rules and U.S. efforts to negotiate
agreements with other countries, Bloomberg BNA reported.  “The program was already somewhat behind,” Candace Ewell,
principal in PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s Washington national
tax services group, said of the act, known as Fatca. “All of
this time is lost time in moving that forward. This certainly is
putting additional pressure on the very aggressive deadlines
that Fatca has.”  Enacted in 2010 to curb cross-border  tax  evasion, Fatca
creates a new information reporting and withholding regime for
foreign banks and accounts. The law is intended to ensure U.S.-
owned accounts are properly reported to the Internal Revenue
Service. It also impacts a range of entities outside of banks,
including investment companies, funds and brokers.  If the shutdown is brief, “it’s disruptive, but it doesn’t
cause things to completely fall apart,” said John Harrington, a
partner with Dentons in  Washington . If the closing goes for an
extended period of time or if there are multiple shutdowns, it
could have “a very negative impact,” said Harrington, a former
international tax counsel at the Treasury Department.  It remains a possibility that Fatca agreements in the final
stages of negotiations may be signed soon.  First Wave  The first wave of reporting under the law is set to begin
July 1, 2014, and more guidance was expected within the next few
weeks. On a parallel track, the Treasury Department has been
working on dozens of accords with other countries, known as
intergovernmental agreements or IGAs, to allow for government-to-government reporting under the law.  Nine have been signed so far, including pacts with  Denmark ,
 Germany , Ireland,  Japan ,  Mexico ,  Norway , Spain, Switzerland and
the U.K. Many more are nearing the finish line, Treasury
officials have said.  Both those talks and the Fatca guidance may be delayed by
the shutdown, although the full impact remains a question, said
Philip West, a partner with Steptoe & Johnson LLP in Washington.  “Some members of the team needed to write the regulations
and negotiate the IGAs are not working,” said West, a former
Treasury international tax counsel.  “That’s going to bog down
forward progress.”  Still, banks have been waiting for the agreements for a
long time and may not have expected the accords would be done
immediately.  No Promises  “It’s not like anyone promised that an IGA would be
forthcoming last week and now it’s not,” West said. “It’s hard
to know the precise impact.”  If guidance is issued that tightens Fatca requirements and
taxpayers have less time to implement the changes, “that could
be a problem,” West said.  Timing is key for many agreements, with the possibility
that a foreign government may have flexibility to negotiate a
pact only in a particular window of time, Harrington said.  “Some of this truly could be lost opportunities because of
local circumstances,” he said. “But in some cases it might be
just a delay.”  The deadlines already are tough to meet, and the government
shutdown could make it even more difficult, PwC’s Ewell said.
The IRS and Treasury gave taxpayers a six-month extension from
the original deadline of Jan. 1, 2014.  That might not be enough, Ewell said.  “You’re going to see stakeholders still asking for
additional time,” she said.  “A year was requested and only six
months was granted. There’s just so much work to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Bennett in Washington at
 abennett37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  