-- P&G, Nestle, GagaJeans, Enterprise: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/p-g-nestle-gagajeans-enterprise-intellectual-property.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the maker of
Head & Shoulders, accused the U.K.’s  Unilever Plc (ULVR)  of infringing
three patents covering anti-dandruff shampoo.  Unilever’s allegedly infringing products include Suave,
Dove, Axe and Clear Scalp, according to the complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Cincinnati, where P&G is based.  P&G said it sued after Unilever broke a 1998 agreement
between the two companies. According to court papers, the
consumer products makers settled a series of patent disputes at
that time and provided a mechanism for handling future disputes.  Under the terms of the agreement, the companies would first
negotiate, then enter into mediation and, if that wasn’t
successful, submit to arbitration. Only after these steps were
completed could they litigate, P&G said in court papers. Over
the past 15 years, the companies have resolved at least five
patent clashes in this fashion, according to court papers.  P&G said that in January it notified Unilever it believed
some of the U.K. company’s anti-dandruff products infringed
three patents.  In dispute are patents 6,451,300, 6,974,569 and 6,649,155.  P&G claims that Unilever violated the agreement by
initiating proceedings in the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office 
challenging the validity of these patents. The U.K. company
filed petitions for proceedings known as  inter partes review .  These are adversarial proceedings, with the results of the
petitions to be decided by judges at the Patent Trial and Appeal
Board.  P&G claims that a wide range of Unilever products infringe
the three patents, the  Ohio  company asked the court to issue
orders barring further infringement of its patents and for money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  Unilever didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is  Procter & Gamble Co . v. Conopco Inc., 13-cv-00732, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Ohio
(Cincinnati).  Nestle Responds to EPO Ruling Revoking Patent Covering Nespresso  Nestle SA (NESN) , the Swiss food company, said in a statement
yesterday that it was disappointed by a ruling from the Appeals
Board of the  European Patent Office .  The board revoked a patent related to the Vevey,
Switzerland-based company’s Nespresso single-serve beverage-brewing system. It overrules a decision from the European Patent
Office in April 2012, the company said.  Nestle said that the ruling doesn’t have any effect on
“the current competitive situation” with respect to the
Nespresso system. The company said there are no prohibitions
against the sale of competitors’ generic capsules that Nestle
had claimed infringed the patent. The appeal board’s decisions
“does not change the status quo,” the company said.  Nestle said it will await the board’s written decision
before determining what steps to take in its pending
infringement cases.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  GagaJeans Maker Changes Name After Musician Complains  The maker of blue jeans with a sideways zip-open crotch
said the product’s name has been changed following complaints
from the pop singer known as Lady Gaga.  The pants, which are to sell for $10,000 a pair, will now
be known under their maker’s name, Pheiress, the company said in
a  statement  on its website.  Pheiress said that it received almost universal negative
comments about for the name “GagaJeans” and that the performer
accused the company of trademark infringement.  The jeans have a zipper set in the inner leg seam running
eight inches in each direction, according to the website. They
are covered by patent D680,299, a design patent that was issued
on April 23. The patent holder is Philip Walter Scott of
Chipley,  Florida .  Although the zipper is fully functional, it’s not intended
to be used, “only stared at and talked about by all those guys
who see you in them,” according to the website.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Hearst Loses Pretrial Effort to Stop Aereo Video-Streaming  A Hearst-owned television station failed to stop the online
TV service Aereo Inc. from streaming video as it faces
copyright-infringement lawsuits from broadcast TV networks.  Hearst Stations Inc., operator of WCVB-TV near  Boston , sued
Aereo in July and accused it of violating copyrights by
capturing signals and sending them to customers without
permission.  “Hearst has not demonstrated a sufficient likelihood of
success on the merits nor the requisite irreparable harm” for
an injunction, U.S. District Judge Nathaniel Gorton in Boston
said in an Oct. 8 ruling. Hearst will appeal the ruling, WCVB
spokesman Paul Luthringer said in an e-mailed statement.  Hearst, based in  New York , owns 29 broadcast stations in
the U.S., and major revenue sources include advertising and fees
paid for the right to resell programming, according to Gorton’s
opinion. Aereo, based in New York, transmits TV over the
Internet to paying customers.  “When you comply not only with the letter but the spirit
of the law, justice will prevail,” Aereo’s founder and chief
executive officer, Chet Kanojia, said in a statement after the
ruling. “Today’s decision makes clear that that there is no
reason that consumers should be limited to 1950s technology to
access over-the-air broadcast television.”  Broadcast networks, including  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and Walt Disney
Co.’s ABC, sued Aereo in New York in March 2012. U.S. District
Judge Alison Nathan rejected the networks’ motion for an
injunction that would have shut down the service, and a panel of
New York appeals judges upheld that ruling in April.  Hearst Stations is part of Hearst Corp.  The case is Hearst Stations v. Aereo, 13-cv-11649, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Enterprise Accuses Ex-Employee of Taking Trade Secrets to Hertz  Enterprise Holdings Inc., the closely held  Missouri  rental
car company, sued a former employee for trade secret
misappropriation.  According to a complaint filed Oct. 8 in federal court in
St. Louis, Enterprise accused a former credit card business
analyst of taking confidential business information to a new job
with a unit of  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , an Enterprise
competitor.  Hertz isn’t a party to the suit.  Enterprise said the former employee began work with the
company in June 1998 and was promoted several times before
becoming a credit card business analyst. In that job, the
employee had “direct and significant responsibility” for the
operation of its credit card processing business, systems and
programs.  The employee had access to detailed proprietary information
about the rental car company’s agreements with major credit card
associations and banks, including Visa, American Express,
Discover, MasterCard and Bank of America, according to court
papers.  This information is both confidential and valuable
competitively, Enterprise said, adding that it took “reasonable
measures” to protect its unauthorized disclosure or use.  The day after the employee submitted a notice of
resignation, Enterprise said it began reviewing the employee’s
e-mail account and discovered that what the company claimed was
trade secret information was wrongfully sent to a personal e-mail account.  The rental car company asked the court to bar the
unauthorized use of its data and that it be returned.
Additionally, the company asked for money damages, litigation
costs and attorney fees.  The case is Enterprise Holdings Inc. v. Kriete, 13-cv-02005, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri ( St.
Louis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California ,
at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 