-- Patti Smith’s Rat Mecca; Radcliffe Howls; Madness: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/patti-smith-s-rat-mecca-radcliffe-howls-madness-movies.html
Grounded by a deadpan performance
from  Alan Rickman  as bar owner Hilly Kristal, “ CBGB ” takes a
breezy, comic-book approach to  New York ’s shabby drop-dead era
and the cacophony it raised.  Kristal’s Lower East Side bar opened in 1973, and while the
initials stood for “Country Blue Grass Blues,” the notoriously
filthy, rat-ridden club became the incubator for underground
rockers like  Patti Smith , the Ramones, Blondie and Television.  “CBGB,” though, is a Kristal biopic, sprinkled with
cover-band impersonations of the musical icons audiences cared
about.  And it is something those clamoring, three-chord amateurs
rarely were: harmless. (And, for the most part, drug-free).  Among the more entertaining pretenders: Jared Carter, in
preppy sweater, nails the angular moves of  David Byrne  (doing
“Psycho Killer”), and Tom Verlaine himself might need a second
look at doppelganger Max Reinhardsen mouthing “Marquee Moon.”  The only outright groaner is Mickey Sumner, Sting’s
daughter, as a prettified Smith performing “Because the
Night,” a crossover hit from well after Smith’s CBGB heyday.  Director Randall Miller makes good use of the actual bar’s
remnants -- the toilets are as disgusting as legend insists --
but the decision to use original studio recordings is a
miscalculation. These punks hit the stage polished and in-tune,
with no hint of the untrained anarchy that was as essential as
bad attitudes.  “CBGB,” from Xlrator Media, is playing in select
theaters. Rating: ** (Evans)  ‘Camille Claudel’  The sculptor Camille Claudel (1864-1943) was first a
student, then the mistress of Auguste Rodin. Abandoned, she fell
into a psychotic decline marked by persecution mania.  “ Camille Claudel 1915 ” unfolds over three days in the
Provencal asylum where her family keeps her incarcerated.  It’s quickly clear that her madness is of a milder order
than that of the chortling imbeciles around her. No longer
creating, she lives in a hell of boredom and forlornness.  Writer-director Bruno Dumont gives her few words; almost
all the drama takes place of the face of  Juliette Binoche . No
dialogue could express more than the way her features contort
when she stoops to shape a clump of clay, the artist in her
momentarily reawakened.  Dumont’s decision to surround Binoche with real mental
patients was astute. The camera treats them unflinchingly but
not unkindly: We understand Camille’s revulsion even as we see
their harmless sweetness.  The only figure the film judges harshly, and rightly so, is
Camille’s younger brother, the writer Paul Claudel (Jean-Luc
Vincent), an immaculate prig who lectures her about God.  Quiet, slow and sad, this is obviously a film for a small
audience. But it’s moving and humane, with a beauty as austere
as the rocky hills around the asylum Camille will never leave.  “Camille Claudel 1915,” from Kino Lorber, opens Oct. 16
in New York. Rating: **** (Seligman)  Daniel Radcliffe  A 1944 murder provides a fresh take on the Beats in “ Kill
Your Darlings ,” starring an earnest  Daniel Radcliffe  as
“Howl” poet  Allen Ginsberg  and Dane DeHaan as his killer pal
Lucien Carr.  Carr was the effete, visionary lynchpin in the incipient
literary circle that included Ginsberg, Jack Kerouac (Jack
Huston) and William S. Burroughs ( Ben Foster ).  Radcliffe, while nicely conveying Ginsberg’s tortured
sexuality, is just too darned cute to pass for the real thing.  Michael C. Hall gives a subtle, desperate performance as
the man obsessed with, and ultimately done in by, Carr, but
DeHaan’s is the breakout performance. (Evans)  “Kill Your Darlings,” from  Sony Pictures Classics , opens
Oct. 16 in New York and  Los Angeles . This is a condensed,
revised version of  Greg Evans ’s Sundance Film Festival review
from January 23, 2013. Rating: **1/2  (Greg Evans and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 