-- Paulson-Backed REIT Said in Final Talks to Buy Irish Properties
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n ,   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-10-11T17:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/paulson-backed-reit-said-in-final-talks-to-buy-irish-properties.html
Green REIT Plc, a fund backed by
billionaire  John Paulson , is in exclusive talks to buy most of
an Irish property portfolio from  Danske Bank S/A (DANSKE)  after topping
rival bids, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Danske, based in Copenhagen, is seeking as much as 135
million euros ($183 million) for the whole portfolio, said one
of the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks
are private. The portfolio, known as  Project ARC , includes
retail properties, offices and a parking lot.  Paulson and fellow Green REIT backers Pacific Investment
Management Co. and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are seeking to profit from an
Irish property recovery after the country endured the worst real
estate  crash  in western Europe. The slump ensnared Danske’s
Irish subsidiary, which is winding down its commercial property
investments.  Spokesmen for Danske, Green REIT and  Grant Thornton  in
Dublin, which is advising the Danish bank on Irish asset sales,
declined to comment.  Green REIT raised 310 million euros in its initial public
offering in July. The stock has  jumped  about 10 percent since
then, while the 45-member ISEQ Overall Index has gained 3.6
percent.  Paulson became a billionaire in 2007 by betting against the
U.S. subprime mortgage market. His Paulson & Co. fund owns about
13 percent of Green REIT, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. U.S. mutual fund manager  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  also
owns about 13 percent, the data show.  Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, and
BlackRock, the world’s biggest asset manager, own about 10
percent each, according to the data.  Investec Plc (INVP) , a finance
firm with operations in the U.K. and South Africa, owns 11
percent, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in Dublin at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  