-- Pentagon Withholds Sikorsky Pay for Business System Flaws
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-11T19:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/pentagon-withholds-sikorsky-pay-for-business-system-flaws.html
The Defense Department is
withholding 5 percent of billings for a Navy helicopter contract
until  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky Aircraft unit fixes
deficiencies with an internal business system, a Pentagon
spokesman said.  The 5 percent withholding is the maximum that can be
temporarily docked from companies for shortcomings in a system
to track cost and schedule performance, under regulations the
Pentagon adopted in August 2012.  Sikorsky was notified Sept. 6 of three deficiencies on a
contract for the Navy’s CH-53K heavy-lift helicopter related to
guidelines for the recording of direct costs and material
accounting, Navy Commander William Urban, a Pentagon spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement. A corrective action plan is
expected from the company by Oct. 21, he said.  Sikorsky spokesman  Paul Jackson  said in an e-mailed
statement that the company was cited for three “significant
issues” of which “two have been resolved, one remains open.”  “We do not anticipate that this issue will affect our
execution of that contract/program in any manner,” Jackson
said.  It’s the second time in a little more than a month the
Pentagon has taken a similar action against Hartford,
Connecticut-based  United Technologies . The Pentagon’s Defense
Contract Management Agency notified the company’s Pratt &
Whitney unit in September that it was withholding 5 percent from
billings on three F-35 jet engine contracts and another Navy
engine contract.  Pentagon Crackdown  Separately, the agency also is withholding $195 million
from  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  for long-standing deficiencies with
its business system. The Pentagon has reduced the amount to 2
percent, citing improvements.  Together, the withholdings signal a Pentagon crackdown on
contractor compliance with internal systems that the government
says are necessary to measure a company’s progress in meeting
cost and schedule goals for multibillion-dollar weapons
contracts.  “We are working very closely and collaboratively” with
the  Defense Contract Management Agency  “on our response” to
the withholding action, said Jackson, the Sikorsky spokesman.
“Our objective is not only to provide the best flight solutions
but also to do so by utilizing robust business systems and
processes to ensure we provide value to our U.S. Government
customer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  