-- Peru Ready to Cut Reserve Requirements After Keeping 4.25% Rate
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-10-11T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/peru-ready-to-cut-reserve-requirements-after-keeping-4-25-rate.html
Peru ’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a 29th straight month and expressed
willingness to reduce reserve requirements to counter slower
growth.  The board, which is led by bank President Julio Velarde,
maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent yesterday,
matching the forecasts of all 14 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. Peru ties  Malaysia  for the longest interest-rate
pause in developing countries.  Policy makers cut reserve requirements Sept. 30 for a third
straight month after lowering their 2013 growth forecast to 5.5
percent from 6.1 percent on weaker export revenue. In a
statement accompanying the decision, the central bank said it
would ease reserve requirements if necessary to spur lending
while noting economic growth remains near its potential and
inflation pressures are easing.  “They’re not looking at the possibility of a rate cut in
the short term,” Mario Guerrero, an economist at Scotiabank
Peru SAA, said by phone from Lima yesterday after the decision.
“The rate bias is neutral considering the outlook for inflation
and provided the economy doesn’t decelerate any further.”  The  economy  expanded 4.5 percent in July, less than the 4.8
percent forecast by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Growth has
lagged behind economists’ estimates in seven of the last eight
months.  Velarde said Sept. 30 the slowdown will prove temporary as
exports rebound and business sentiment recovers, spurring 6.2
percent economic growth in 2014, the fastest in South America.  Exports rose 1.2 percent in August, the first increase this
year, after a surge in shipments of copper offset lower prices
for the country’s biggest export, Peru’s statistics agency said
yesterday in a report on its website.  Consumer prices increased 0.11 percent in September, the
slowest pace in seven months, while the annual inflation rate
fell to 2.83 percent from 3.28 percent in August. The central
bank targets inflation of 1 percent to 3 percent.  Inflation will remain within the target range in the months
ahead and expectations are anchored, the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  