-- Philippines Braces for Storms as Deaths From South Floods Rise
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-10-11T07:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/philippines-braces-for-storms-as-deaths-from-south-floods-rise.html
The  Philippines  issued its second-highest storm alert for seven northern provinces in the main
island of Luzon, prompting schools to shut as deaths from floods
and landslides south of the country rose.  Typhoon Nari, with maximum winds of 130 kilometers per hour
and gusts of up to 160 kilometers per hour, is expected to hit
the provinces of Aurora and Isabela this evening, the  weather
bureau  said in its latest bulletin. Rainfall from typhoon,
locally known as Santi, is likely heavy to intense, while
another storm is expected to enter the country over the weekend,
forecaster Aldczar Aurelio said in a televised briefing.  Eight local flights were canceled, the transportation
department said in its official Twitter account. About 460
passengers are stranded in Albay province’s port, the  disaster
monitoring  agency said on its website, while schools were shut
in provinces where storm alerts were raised.  Floods and landslides  in the islands of Visayas and
Mindanao in the five days to Oct. 8 killed as many as 20 people,
the disaster monitoring agency said. Six of those killed were
from Zamboanga City, where more than 200 people died in
September after three weeks of clashes between the military and
members of a Muslim renegade group.  In August, monsoon rains swamped as much as 60 percent of
the Philippine capital and nearby provinces, shutting financial
markets for two days and suspending work and schools. The
Philippines, regularly battered by cyclones, topped a list of 10
countries most affected by natural disasters in 2012, with 2,360
deaths, according to a report by Brussels-based Centre for
Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters.  Storm warning signal number 3, the second-highest in a
four-level alert system, is raised in seven provinces in  Luzon 
island, the weather bureau said. Fourteen provinces are under
signal number 2, while  Manila  and nearby provinces are under the
lowest alert level, it said. Flooding in low-lying areas in
Manila is possible, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Baizhen at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net  