-- Philippine Peso Gains on U.S. Debt Talk Progress; Bonds Rise
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-10-11T03:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/philippine-peso-gains-on-u-s-debt-talk-progress-bonds-rise.html
The Philippine peso snapped a two-day drop as speculation U.S. lawmakers will raise the debt limit
and avoid a default improved global risk sentiment. Bonds rose.  House Republicans  proposed a short-term increase in the
debt ceiling that would push the lapse of U.S. borrowing
authority to Nov. 22 from Oct. 17. Reports this week showed
Philippine exports surged 20 percent in August, the most in 11
months, and the government’s budget returned to surplus. Moody’s
Investors Service raised the Philippines to investment grade for
the first time on Oct. 3, citing robust economic performance.  “The rating upgrade is a reflection of the overall
positivity we have held based on strong growth, a structural
current-account surplus, politics and the political push for
economic reform,” Craig Chan, Singapore-based head of Asia ex-Japan currency strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a
research note today. A U.S. debt resolution will be supportive
for the peso, he wrote.  The Philippine currency climbed 0.1 percent to 43.112 per
dollar as of 11:26 a.m. in  Manila , according to prices from
Tullett Prebon Plc. The peso fell 0.1 percent this week. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, dropped 16 basis points, or
0.16 percentage point, today and 27 basis points this week to
6.05 percent.  ING, Nomura  Talks between Republican lawmakers and President  Barack
Obama  will continue as they try to seek a “path forward,”
Republican House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said. The White
House said “no specific determination” was made.  Nomura added long peso positions into its Asian currency
holdings today, according to the note, while ING Groep NV raised
its year-end peso forecast to 42.8 per dollar from 43.5, citing
potential stock inflows and supportive monetary conditions. A
long position is a bet a stock or currency will rise.  Foreign investors sold $66 million more local stocks than
they bought this week through yesterday, exchange data show. The
Philippine  stock index  lost 14 percent in the three months
through August. The gauge will claw back most of those losses
this quarter,  Tim Condon , head of Asia research at ING in
 Singapore , wrote in a report today.  The yield on the 8 percent government bonds due July 2031
fell nine basis points to 4.78 percent, according to prices from
Tradition Financial Services. It declined 16 basis points since
Oct. 4, the biggest weekly drop in more than two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  