-- Phoenix Curbing Pensions Produces Lowest Bond Cost
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/phoenix-curbing-pensions-produces-lowest-bond-cost.html
Investors are driving Phoenix’s
financing costs to an eight-month low as officials move to curb
a pension burden that one councilman said has  Arizona ’s largest
city on the path to insolvency.  Voters this year raised the  retirement age  for public
workers and their pension contributions in changes projected to
save $600 million over 25 years for the sixth-largest U.S. city.
A council committee this week recommended limiting a practice,
known as pension spiking, that allows employees to increase
retirement benefits through perks such as pay for unused
vacation and sick time.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market are taking
notice of the steps by Phoenix, which has the third-biggest
pension burden among the nation’s 25 most-populous cities,
according to Morningstar Inc. Buyers have pushed the extra yield
on some  debt  to the lowest since at least February, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Phoenix’s pension carrying costs are an outlier in this
sector,” said Neene Jenkins, a muni credit-research analyst in
 New York  at AllianceBernstein, which oversees about $32 billion
of local-government debt. “It is a significant credit issue.”  National Echo  The debate in Phoenix, where the population rose about
9 percent from 2000 to 2010, to 1.4 million, echoes the
increasing attention nationwide to pension liabilities. The
benefits have driven up costs in localities that lost revenue
during the 18-month recession that ended in 2009.  Last year,  California  and New York took aim at pension
spiking as part of overhauls that lifted retirement ages and
workers’ contributions. At least 15 states, including Arizona,
have passed laws blocking the practice, according to Rachel
Barkley, a Morningstar analyst in  Chicago . Arizona’s law applies
to state-administered retirement systems, including the one for
the city’s public-safety workers.  In Phoenix, officials cut more than 2,600 jobs, or
15 percent of the workforce since 2008, trimmed overtime costs
and instituted a food tax as part of budget-balancing steps
during the recession as pension costs rose and  tax revenue  fell.
The ratio of employees to residents is at a 40-year low,
according to data from the city, even as its economy has
rebounded.  Housing Rebound  Home prices  in Phoenix reached a five-year high in July,
although they’re still down almost 40 percent from a 2006 peak,
according to the S&P/Case-Shiller property-value  index .  Retirement contributions rose to $253 million this year, or
about 7.2 percent of the total budget, from $56 million in
fiscal 2003-2004, or 2.6 percent, according to data from the
city. It has a total unfunded liability of about $2.4 billion,
according to Chief Financial Officer Jeff DeWitt.  At 61 percent, the city’s funded ratio is below the
70 percent threshold considered fiscally sound, according to
Barkley. Its pension costs account for 19 percent of general-fund spending, less than only  San Diego  and  San Jose ,
California, among the 25 largest U.S. cities, according to
Morningstar.  DeWitt said that analysis overstates the burden on the
general fund since some employees are covered under enterprise
and special-revenue funds.  Voters Decide  Changes approved by voters in March to the pension system
for new, non-public-safety employees raise the retirement age by
three to five years and require workers to pick up half their
pension costs. The city also capped the amount of accrued sick
time that could be cashed out and counted in pension
calculations. That move led to another lawsuit by an employee
union last year.  “A new employee starting today doesn’t have to worry about
getting their pension payment when they are 82 years old,”
DeWitt said.  So far the efforts are being applauded by investors.  Phoenix general-obligation bonds maturing in July 2015
traded Sept. 25 at an average yield of 0.36 percent, or
0.16 percentage point less than benchmark munis, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. It’s the lowest relative borrowing cost since
at least February.  The city may refund about $150 million in wastewater bonds
this year and about $150 million in general-obligation debt
early next year, DeWitt said.  ‘Not Unmanageable’  Matthew Jones, a senior vice president in public finance
for Moody’s Investors Service in New York, said the city was
able to maintain its Aa1 rating, the second-highest rank,
through the recession because of sound management.  “Their pension liability is higher than average,” he
said. “But it is not unmanageable given their resources.”  Among the 50 largest U.S. local governments by debt,
Phoenix ranked 10th in terms of the size of pension liabilities
relative to annual operating revenue, at about 240 percent,
Moody’s reported last month. The ranking used fiscal 2011 data.
Chicago was first, with 678 percent.  Councilman Sal DiCiccio, a Republican who is critical of
the pension system and employee benefits, said changes haven’t
gone far enough.  In addition to ending pension spiking, he wants the city to
move to a defined-contribution plan.  “This path is unsustainable if it doesn’t get fixed,”
DiCiccio said. “The path that led to Stockton and  Detroit  is
the same path everyone else is on. We’re all going to end up
there.”  Comparisons Rejected  Detroit filed a record U.S. municipal bankruptcy in July.
Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr has said its biggest unsecured debt
is an unfunded pension liability of $3.5 billion. The city also
owes about $1.4 billion on bonds issued to bolster pension
systems. Stockton, California, sought court protection last
year, citing accounting errors, rising retiree health-care costs
and a drop in tax revenue from the recession.  DeWitt, who has been nominated by  Washington ’s mayor to
become chief financial officer there, rejects the comparison to
those cities.  He said the changes to Phoenix’s pension system will keep
costs rising at about the pace of inflation. The city has
$3.8 billion of pension assets, is paying down unfunded
liabilities and is required to pay the full actuarially required
contribution to its plans.  Contracts Challenged  The Goldwater Institute, a Phoenix-based research group
that promotes limited government, sued the city in August. Its
complaint challenges provisions in a contract with a police
union allowing long-time officers to be paid additional salary
instead of accruing vacation or sick leave.  The practice violates state law that blocks leave from
being used in pension calculations in Arizona’s Public Safety
and Personnel Retirement System, according to the complaint
filed in state court in Phoenix.  “It is costing Phoenix an extraordinarily high amount of
money,” said Jonathan Riches, an attorney at the Scharf-Norton
Center for Constitutional Litigation at the nonprofit institute
named for late Republican Senator  Barry Goldwater .  The pay is for taking a lessened benefit, which makes it
salary legally included in retirement calculations, according to
a statement from the city’s legal department. The city filed a
motion to dismiss the case.  David Leibowitz , a spokesman for the Phoenix Police
Sergeants and Lieutenants Association, the union named in
Goldwater’s lawsuit, declined to comment, citing the pending
litigation.  Capping Costs  A council subcommittee voted Oct. 8 to recommend ending
certain spiking practices among workers other than police and
firefighters. If the council adopts the changes, accrued
vacation that can be used to increase pensions will be capped
and other allowances, such as for vehicles or phones, will no
longer count in pension calculations, said City Councilman  Bill
Gates , the Republican vice mayor.  Gates said he wished the committee had gone further by
recommending the city block the use of accrued vacation in
pension calculations altogether. The council is set to consider
the changes Oct. 22.  Ron Ramirez, president of the Administrative Supervisory
Professional & Technical Employees Association, said his union
opposes the pension changes. The organization, which represents
about 3,200 city workers, is suing the city along with other
unions over last year’s change to cap sick time that could be
used to determine pensions.  “It’s in lieu of compensation,” Ramirez said. “The
taxpayer is getting a bargain. If you want to give it to me in
wages, then go ahead.”  The case involving the Goldwater Institute is Wright v.
Stanton, CV2013-010915, Maricopa County, Arizona, Superior Court
(Phoenix).  Market Week  In the municipal market this week, issuance remains limited
as the partial federal shutdown continues. Borrowers have about
$8.3 billion of sales scheduled for the next
30 days, about 11 percent below the 2013 average.  Governments such as  Wisconsin  are issuing with top-rated
10-year munis yielding  2.75 percent , the highest since Sept. 23.
The  interest rate  compares with about  2.69 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 102 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  