-- Pound Reaches Six-Week Low Versus Euro as Construction Declines
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-10-11T15:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/pound-strengthens-versus-dollar-before-u-k-construction-report.html
The pound depreciated against the
euro, reaching its weakest level in six weeks, as a report
showed U.K. construction output unexpectedly dropped in August.  Sterling erased a gain versus the dollar even amid optimism
U.S. lawmakers will reach an agreement on raising the nation’s
debt limit to avert a default. Construction slipped 0.1 percent
from July compared with a 0.8 percent gain forecast by
economists. The  Bank of England  yesterday kept its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent and maintained its
bond-buying  target  at 375 billion pounds ($599 billion). U.K.
government bonds advanced.  “A lot of good news on the U.K. economic front is already
in the price,” said Peter Kinsella, a senior currency
strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “The momentum has
certainly come a bit lower after strong upward surprises in the
past few months. While it’s unlikely we are going to see very
poor data out of the U.K., I would expect some sterling weakness
in the near term.”  The pound depreciated 0.4 percent to 85.02 pence per euro
at 4:34 p.m. London time after reaching 85.10 pence, the weakest
since Sept. 2. Sterling was little changed at $1.5950 after
falling to $1.5914 yesterday, the lowest since Sept. 18.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee, led by
Governor  Mark Carney , said in August it would keep  interest
rates  low until  unemployment , currently at 7.7 percent, falls
below 7 percent.  Homebuilding Surge  The decline in construction output was limited by a surge
in homebuilding, data published by the  Office for National
Statistics  showed. New private house building increased 1.6
percent on the month and 18.1 percent from a year earlier, the
biggest annual increase since June 2011.  Citigroup Inc.’s Economic Surprise Index for the U.K.
dropped to 27.3, the lowest since July 16. The gauge, which
shows whether data beat or fell short of economists’ forecasts,
reached a nine-month high of 113.30 on Aug. 19.  U.K. home values  rose to a record last month, increasing
0.5 percent from August to an average 235,534 pounds, London-based real-estate researcher Acadametrics and  LSL Property
Services Plc (LSL)  said.  House prices  were driven partly by Prime Minister  David
Cameron ’s Help-to-Buy plan aimed at aiding first-time buyers as
it gives people a chance to purchase a home with a down payment
of as little as 5 percent of the property’s value.  Bubble Criticism  The plan has attracted criticism it will fuel a bubble in
Britain. Two thirds of 31 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
published today described the measure as bad. While the
government and the Bank of England say the  property market  is
recovering from very low levels of activity, house-price growth
is outpacing inflation and incomes, raising questions about how
much support is needed.  Sterling was little changed in the past week, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 0.3 percent and the
euro strengthened 0.4 percent.  Losses today were limited as  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  agreed
to buy  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Australian assets. Tighter
capital rules following the 2008 financial crisis have prompted
European and U.S. lenders to retreat from the Asia-Pacific
region.  The transaction valued at A$1.45 billion ($1.37 billion)
includes an A$8.4 billion leasing and corporate loan portfolio,
Sydney-based Westpac,  Australia ’s second-largest lender by
market value, said.  Currency Benchmarks  FTSE Group , the compiler of Britain’s FTSE 100, is
reviewing the currency benchmarks it uses to value its global
stock indexes amid a widening investigation into alleged
manipulation of the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market,
according to three people with knowledge of the plan.  The 10-year gilt yield dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.74 percent. The 2.25 percent bond due in
September 2023 rose 0.125, or 1.25 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 95.82. The rate on two-year gilts was little changed
at 0.44 percent.  The Debt Management Office announced today that Credit
Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and Societe Generale SA will lead a sale of gilts
maturing in 2068. The offering will take place in the week
starting Oct. 21, the debt office said.  Gilts lost 3.1 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds dropped
2 percent and U.S. Treasuries declined 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  