-- Powell Says Sustaining QE Is ‘Reasonable’ Risk Management
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-10-11T16:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/powell-says-pressing-on-with-qe-is-reasonable-risk-management.html
Federal Reserve Governor Jerome Powell said the Fed’s decision last month to press on with $85
billion in monthly bond purchases buffers against the risks of
fiscal gridlock in  Washington  and an economic slowdown.  “I supported the decision as a reasonable exercise in risk
management,” Powell said in a speech today in Washington, as
the government shutdown stretched into its 11th day. “Events
since the September meeting suggest that the concerns regarding
fiscal matters were well founded.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  chose to continue asset
purchases at its Sept. 17-18 meeting, saying it wants to see
more evidence the economy will strengthen enough to bring down
7.3 percent unemployment. The move surprised many economists who
expected the Fed to begin tapering purchases at that gathering.  “For me, the decision was a close call, and I would have
been comfortable with a small reduction in  purchases ,” Powell
said in a speech to the Institute of International Finance
annual membership meeting.  “There were legitimate concerns about the strength of
incoming economic data, the economic effects of tighter
financial conditions and of tighter fiscal policy, and the
prospect for disruptive events on the fiscal front,” he said.  Economists had forecast the FOMC would dial down monthly
Treasury purchases by $5 billion, to $40 billion, while
maintaining its buying of mortgage-backed securities at $40
billion, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Slow Purchases  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after the FOMC’s June meeting
that the committee would probably slow asset purchases later
this year and halt the program around mid-2014 if the economy
unfolded in line with its forecasts. Most policy makers last
month said such a policy path was likely, according to minutes
of the September meeting released this week.  When asked today during a panel discussion whether
Bernanke’s timeline was still relevant, Powell said, “I really
think that it is.”  After the FOMC announced its decision not to taper on
Sept. 18, the yield on the 10-year Treasury dropped by 0.16
percentage point and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.2
percent on the prospect of Fed stimulus lasting longer than
expected.  “The September decision not to reduce purchases clearly
took some market participants by surprise,” Powell said. “The
decision to reduce purchases now or to hold off for a meeting or
two does not carry great macroeconomic significance. But, to a
fixed-income trader, the timing of the decision is everything.”  Remained Lower  Yields on Treasuries have remained lower following the
Fed’s meeting. The 2-year Treasury yield was 0.34 percent at
12:31 p.m., down from as high as 0.53 percent in September.  “I would like to push back against the narrative that the
decision at the September meeting has damaged the Committee’s
communications strategy,” Powell said. “Short-term rates have
fallen back since the September meeting, and are now better
aligned with the Committee’s forward rate guidance. This is
particularly important because, as the Chairman stressed in
September, the Committee views  rate policy  as its stronger and
more reliable tool.”  Powell, 60, a Treasury official under President  George H.
W. Bush  and a former private equity investor, became a Fed
governor in May 2012. He has never dissented from a decision of
the Federal Open Market Committee  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  