-- Probe Begins Into Malaysian Air Crash Landing After Two Die
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-10-11T02:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/probe-begins-into-malaysian-air-plane-crash-landing-as-two-die.html
An investigation has begun after two
people were killed and two others were injured when a Twin Otter
DHC6 plane operated by  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) ’s MASwings
unit crash landed in eastern Sabah state yesterday.  The plane had a total of 16 passengers and crew on board,
the airline said in a statement today. The twin-engine turboprop
aircraft, flying from Kota Kinabalu, landed short of the runway
in Kudat at 2:50 p.m. local time. Malaysia’s Department of Civil
Aviation is leading the investigation and the cause of the
accident isn’t yet known, the carrier said.  “Malaysia Airlines together with MASwings are fully co-operating and assisting the investigation in every possible
way,” the company said in the statement. “The Twin Otter was
fit to fly and was in good condition before the accident.”  This is the first fatal plane accident in  Malaysia  since
August 2009, according to AviationSafetyNetwork, a Netherlands-based website that tracks aviation safety statistics. The pilot
of an  Avcen Jetpod  prototype was killed in that incident when
the plane crashed immediately after takeoff during its maiden
flight, according to the Network’s website.  Shares of Malaysian Air were unchanged at 34 sen as of
10:47 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, underperforming a 0.6 percent
increase in the  benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index.  “Whatever the cause, an air crash tarnishes the safety
record of an airline operator,” Ahmad Maghfur Usman and Jerry Lee, analysts at RHB Capital Bhd., wrote in a report today. “It
may affect  consumer confidence  on the safety of its services,
which in turn can hurt the airline’s passenger loads.”  RHB said it is maintaining a neutral rating on  Malaysian
Air (MAS)  and fair value of 34 sen, pending investigation results.  Co-pilot Marc Joel Bansh, 22, and passenger Tan Ah Chai, 69,
were killed, Malaysian Air said. The statement didn’t provide
details of those injured.  Malaysian Air’s MASwings unit, started in October 2007,
operates commuter airline services in the states of Sabah and
Sarawak. The state-owned airline in December ordered 36
turboprop planes for its MASwings and Firefly units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  