-- Trade Hindered as Shutdown Slows Goods Traffic at Ports
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-10-11T18:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/trade-hindered-as-shutdown-slows-goods-traffic-at-ports.html
Business at Thrush Aircraft Inc.
should be booming this time of year as the Georgia company ships
its crop dusters to customers in  Brazil  preparing to fertilize
crops.  A partial U.S. government shutdown, however, has brought
about $13 million worth of orders to a halt because the
shuttered U.S. Export-Import Bank isn’t providing financing for
the buyers in South America, where it’s now spring.  “It’s just brutal,” said Eric Rojek, the vice president
for sales of the closely held company, based in  Albany . “It’s a
very difficult position that these guys have put us in,” he
said, referring to U.S. lawmakers who couldn’t agree on a plan
to keep the bank and other federal agencies open before the Oct.
1 start of the fiscal year.  American exporters and some companies trying to ship
products into the U.S. say they are finding new roadblocks as
the impact of the shutdown in Washington spreads overseas. In
addition to delayed sales, the furlough of hundreds of thousands
of federal workers has slowed the processing of goods like
pesticides inspected by the Environmental Protection Agency,
which laid off more than 90 percent of its staff.  “It’s really been bogged down,” said Aaron Ellis, a
spokesman for the American Association of Port Authorities.
“Especially with goods like frozen beef, it really costs a lot
of money to maintain because they have to be plugged in to stay
frozen on the dock,” he said in a phone interview.  Tea Party  The normal operation of the Export-Import Bank -- whose
existence was the subject of a months-long battle last year
between Tea Party Republicans and airlines on one side and the
U.S. business lobby on the other -- has come to a halt.  “The fact is, we can’t do new deals” or process those
that have already been submitted for approval, David Sena, the
bank’s chief financial officer, said by phone. The bank provides
financing, including loan guarantees, to foreign buyers of U.S.
goods. Those deals benefit companies including Chicago-based
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) , based in Fairfield,
 Connecticut .  “There are no immediate financing impacts to Boeing
airplane deliveries,” Doug Alder, a company spokesman, said in
an e-mail. “However, as the shutdown continues, there is the
potential of some customer impacts to near-term deliveries where
Ex-Im financing has been planned.”  Supplier Disruptions  Export-Import Bank financing can act as an “export
magnet” because sales of complex systems like aircraft or
satellites also benefit suppliers, Remy Nathan, vice president
for international affairs at the Aerospace Industries
Association, said in a phone interview. The Arlington, Virginia-based industry group’s members include  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX)   “Anything that interferes with the bank’s operations has
implications for the suppliers,” Nathan said.  Some agencies that perform inspections, like the EPA, have
pared their staffs during the shutdown. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration has furloughed 18 percent of its 420
investigators who work on imports, agency spokesman Steven Immergut said in an e-mail.  The U.S. International Trade Commission, which investigates
trade disputes to determine whether imports have unfairly harmed
U.S. businesses, has stopped that work. The Commerce Department
division that promotes exports is virtually shuttered. The U.S.
Trade Representative’s office, in the process of negotiating
major agreements with the 28-nation European Union and 11
Pacific-region nations, is operating with 26 percent of its 232-person staff.  Technology Exports  The Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security
has furloughed about 60 percent of its workers. The bureau
reviews the export of goods that are restricted because they
contain advanced technology.  The lapse in the bureau’s routine functions “could affect
our ability to ship products to certain markets,” said Kevin
Winston, managing director of corporate communications at
 Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , a Santa Clara, California-based computer
chipmaker. “Pending applications and future submissions are on
hold,” he said in a statement.  Delays in shipments of millions of dollars worth of
pesticides are already having an effect, Ray McAllister, the
senior director of regulatory policy for CropLife America, a
Washington-based trade group representing agricultural chemical
manufacturers, said in an e-mailed statement.  Chemical Pesticides  With inventories of chemical ingredients running low for
products in production, “it may not take long for the
bottlenecks to have an effect on supplies of crop protection
products for agriculture,” which would disrupt planting
seasons, McAllister said.  There could be delays in document reviews and exams for
some imports due to reduced staffing at the FDA, which inspects
drug and some food imports, according to an update Samuel
Shapiro & Co., a Baltimore-based customs broker and freight
forwarder,  posted  on its website. The U.S. Fish & Wildlife
Service declarations now need to be filled out manually, and the
licensing system for steel has stopped.  Jane Taeger, Shapiro’s director of compliance, said the
company hasn’t noticed significant changes in customs
processing, though shipments such as pesticides have been held
up by the lack of inspectors.  “Unfortunately, a lot of the shipments were already on the
water, and now they’re just sitting” at the pier gathering
storage charges, she said.  U.S. Customs and Border Protection has kept its inspectors
working throughout the shutdown.  “It’s mass confusion,” at U.S. ports, said Lisa
Goldenberg, president of  Delaware Steel Company  of  Pennsylvania ,
a wholesale distributor based in Fort Washington, Pennsylvania.
Steel is being held up at ports in some places and at warehouses
in others, she said in a phone interview.  ‘Pretty Quiet’  “What I’m hearing is that they’re running, but light,”
Goldenberg, who is also president of the Association of Steel
Distributors, said of the nation’s ports. “They’re open for
business, but sort-of not really.”  Spokesmen for ports in  California , Louisiana, Houston and
 Georgia  said their facilities haven’t seen a significant impact.  “It’s been pretty quiet,” Art Wong, a spokesman for the
Port of Long Beach, said in an interview. While there hasn’t
been a backup of cargo, “in some cases they don’t get to open
the containers until they get inspections. They could be sitting
in warehouses waiting for paperwork to clear.”  If the shutdown persists, ports will increasingly see their
operations affected, said Page Siplon, executive director at the
Georgia Center of Innovation for Logistics.  “The backlog will build up to the point where it could
really impact the flow of ports more generally,” Siplon said in
a phone interview.  Fortunately, most merchandise needed for holiday season
sales entered the U.S. in August and September, according to
Jonathan Gold, vice president of supply chain and customs policy
at the National Retail Federation.  “Our bigger concern with holiday sales is the impact of
the shutdown on  consumer confidence ,” he said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Chen in  New York  at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  