-- Red Sox Fuel ‘Moneyball’ Dream as Amherst Grooms Front Office
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-11T12:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/red-sox-fuel-moneyball-dream-as-amherst-grooms-front-office.html
Students who dream of starting a
high-tech company may aim for  Stanford University , while those
who want to be scientists target the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology . If running a Major League Baseball team is on your
to-do list, it pays to attend  Amherst College .  The liberal arts college with about 1,800 students counts
three current general managers among its alumni, including two
--  Ben Cherington  of the  Boston Red Sox  and Neal Huntington of
the Pittsburgh Pirates -- that made it to this year’s playoffs.
In all, there are more than a dozen alumni in front-office jobs,
almost all former players or coaches for Amherst.  “It’s a great program,” said Dan Duquette, the executive
vice president for baseball operations for the  Baltimore
Orioles , who played on the varsity team before graduating in
1980. “These guys are very passionate about baseball. It helps
to be able to synthesize the data.”  The emergence of the Amherst clique reflects how sports
management has changed since a decade ago when  Michael Lewis ’s
“Moneyball” chronicled how the  Oakland Athletics  succeeded
even while being vastly outspent by the  New York Yankees  and
other rivals. Baseball executives today want to hire people with
a sports background or who have played themselves and are
educated and have analytical skills.  “These guys just aren’t nerds sitting behind the
computer,” said  Brian Hamm , who took over as Amherst’s head
baseball coach from Bill Thurston four years ago. “These guys
know baseball.”  ‘Hybrid Model’  In his bestseller, Lewis showed how General Manager Billy Beane assembled a competitive roster through the analysis of
statistics overlooked by other clubs, most famously a hitter’s
on-base-percentage.  “This is taking Moneyball into the 21st century,” said
Wayne McDonnell, an assistant professor of sports management at
 New York University . “Baseball has now adopted this hybrid
model where we want the high IQ in terms of sport but we also
want people who are very analytical, thoughtful and well-educated.”  While sports are integral to the culture of many elite New
England colleges, baseball stands out at  Amherst , a very
selective school founded in 1821 in the town of the same name,
about 100 miles (160 kilometers) west of Boston. It is the
oldest organized sport on campus with the team playing in the
first recorded intercollegiate match-up in 1859, beating
Williams College 73-32, according to Amherst’s website.  Amherst Network  Alumni of the college include  Calvin Coolidge , the 30th
president of the U.S., as well as four Nobel Prize winners,
including economist  Joseph Stiglitz .  Amherst plays in the  New England Small College Athletic
Conference  and has won three baseball championships in the past
12 years after making the finals five times.  Duquette, 55, was a catcher in 1980 when two starting
pitchers attracted attention from major league clubs. When
scouts descended, Duquette sought them out, though not to gauge
their interest in his playing ability. He wanted to talk about
working in baseball after graduation.  Duquette got his first break with the  Milwaukee Brewers ,
who at the time were run by Harry Dalton, a 1950 Amherst
graduate. Duquette was hired as an assistant in the scouting
office. He would go on to become the general manager for the
Montreal Expos and then the  Red Sox , assembling parts of the
organization responsible for Boston’s 2004 World Series
championship, its first in 86 years.  Influential Circle  It was Duquette, working with former Amherst baseball coach
Thurston, who also spurred Amherst’s niche in the front office.
He hired Huntington, a former standout first baseman, when he
was with the Expos. Later, when Duquette joined the Red Sox, he
recruited Cherington, a pitcher whose career was cut short by a
shoulder injury.  The Pirates, who reached the postseason this year for the
first time since 1992 before losing to the  St. Louis Cardinals ,
hired Huntington as general manager in 2007. The Red Sox
promoted Cherington to GM in 2011 after Theo Epstein left for
the  Chicago Cubs . The Orioles hired Duquette in 2011 and made
their first playoff appearance last year after 14 losing
seasons.  The circle of Amherst influence is growing under the
executives. Three of the college’s former players are working in
the Red Sox front office, including Cherington. Huntington hired
his former coach as a special adviser along with Dave Jauss, a
longtime Major League bench coach who graduated from Amherst in
1979, and Will Lawton, a baseball operations assistant in
Pittsburgh who was a second baseman and team captain for
Amherst.  New Generation  “I didn’t know if this was going to work out,” said
Lawton, 25, who got an internship with the Pirates after
graduating in 2010, parlaying it into a full-time job. “I
didn’t really know it was a possibility until I got to
Amherst.”  Lawton is more typical of the latest generation of budding
baseball executives. He arrived at Amherst brimming with visions
of one day playing professionally, a dream transformed by
meeting Cherington, Huntington and Duquette at campus events. He
tailored his studies, taking sports psychology classes, for
instance.  While Amherst is known for rigorous academic standards,  it
has also benefited from being near other colleges in the area.
After graduation, both Cherington and Huntington got masters’
degrees in sports management from the  University of
Massachusetts  in Amherst.  Sports Economist  Many Amherst athletes enroll in classes with  Andrew Zimbalist , the sports economist at nearby  Smith College .
Amherst, Smith and three other schools in the area have an
agreement where students can take classes at each other’s
campuses.  The baseball team has also created an internship for an
analyst. Jim Logue, one former intern who graduated in 2008,
works for the Yankees while Sarah Gelles, another who graduated
in 2010, is with the Orioles.  “Baseball front offices are requiring more and more
intelligence as the dollars at stake become higher and higher,”
Zimbalist said. “There’s a growing competitive advantage for
these kids that go to these smart schools.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  