-- Rehn Sees No Schadenfreude in EU Over Risk of Default by U.S.
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-10-11T21:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/rehn-sees-no-schadenfreude-in-eu-over-risk-of-default-by-u-s-.html
The U.S. needs to raise its debt
limit and avoid default so as not to derail economic recovery
around the world, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today.  “There’s no schadenfreude,” Rehn said in an interview
with Sara Eisen for Bloomberg Television on the sidelines of the
International Monetary Fund’s annual meetings. “In  Europe  we
are very concerned about that because it would hit Europe very
hard as well.”  U.S. policy makers should pursue “success and
responsibility” to head off the consequences of a continued
fiscal deadlock, Rehn said.  EU policy making won’t be slowed by German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s efforts to put together a coalition government
after Sept. 22 elections, Rehn said when asked about the banking
union effort aimed at breaking the link between the euro area’s
financial companies and its sovereign debt crisis.  “I am sure there will be a new government in  Germany  in
due course, in the course of maybe November or the latest early
December,” he said. “That will not hamper or delay European
decision making.”  Across the EU, nations need to avoid complacency and press
ahead with economic and budget reforms, Rehn said. For example,
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta is now in better position to
follow through with needed actions, he said.  “In  Italy , the political situation has been now clarified
and the Letta government can provide not only political
stability but I trust also a stronger capacity of taking
decisions on badly needed economic reforms to boost growth and
employment,” Rehn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  