-- Richemont Could Spin Off Net-a-Porter After Quashing Sale Talk
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-10-11T14:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/richemont-could-spin-off-net-a-porter-after-quashing-sale-talk.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , which
yesterday ruled out selling Net-a-Porter, may spin off the
online fashion retailer on the stock market as it refocuses on
luxury watches and jewelry, according to Sanford C. Bernstein.  In an uncharacteristic step, Richemont yesterday said Net-a-Porter isn’t for sale, in an effort to quash speculation that
it held talks to sell the unit to Bologna, Italy-based rival
 Yoox SpA. (YOOX)  The owner of the Cartier jewelry brand “could also
consider to make a separate listing of Net-a-Porter, keeping the
majority,” Bernstein analyst Mario Ortelli said by e-mail.  Alan Grieve , a spokesman for Richemont, declined to comment
beyond yesterday’s statement.  Richemont fueled speculation in May that it could break up
its fashion and leather-goods unit after Chairman Johann Rupert
said the Geneva-based company should have been quicker to cull
bad investments and the division’s head left. The jewelry maker
has appointed Nomura Holdings Inc. to sell handbag maker Lancel,
people familiar with the situation told Bloomberg last month.  “This idea to refocus the group more on hard luxury will
continue,” Ortelli said. He expects Richemont to seek to divest
Shanghai Tang, Dunhill and possibly Chloe and Azzedine Alaia.  Richemont acquired the two-thirds of Net-a-Porter that it
didn’t own in 2010 in a deal valuing the retailer at 350 million
pounds ($559 million). Net-a-Porter, founded by former fashion
journalist Natalie Massenet in 2000, reported a loss of 19
million euros ($25.7 million) in the 12 months through March.  Earnings at Richemont’s fashion and leather-goods unit fell
by more than half in the last fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  