-- Romania to Sell 15% of Romgaz, Biggest Gas Producer, This Year
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-10-11T14:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/romania-to-sell-15-of-romgaz-biggest-gas-producer-this-year.html
Romania  plans to sell 15 percent of
Romgaz SA, its largest natural-gas producer, in an initial
public offering this year as part of the eastern European
country’s agreement with the  International Monetary Fund .  Romgaz shares will trade on the Bucharest Stock Exchange as
well as in  London  as global depositary receipts, Romgaz and the
government said in a joint statement today. Romania will keep at
least 70 percent of Romgaz and property-restitution fund Fondul
Proprietatea SA will have a 15 percent stake in the company. The
total value of the offering may reach as much as 600 million
euros ($814 million), Gabriel Dumitrascu, head of the Energy
Department’s asset-sale program, said on Sept. 19.  “The listing of Romgaz is part of the ambitious program
initiated by the Romanian government to introduce private
investors into strategic companies in the context of reforming
the energy sector,” Energy Minister Constantin Nita said in the
statement.  Romania’s government must complete the sale by the end of
November to meet the terms of its newly-signed 2 billion-euro
accord with the IMF to overhaul state companies. The nation sold
to the public a minority stake in nuclear power generator
Nuclearelectrica SA last month as part of the deal.  Asset Sales  The country also sold a 15 percent stake in natural-gas
grid operator Transgaz SA in April and an additional 15 percent
stake in utility Transelectrica SA in March last year.  Prime Minister Victor Ponta’s government may approve next
week a  price range  in Romgaz’s sale, which should start no later
than Oct. 28 and end by Nov. 9, Bursa newspaper reported today,
citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.  The offering could start as soon as the end of this month,
Dumitrascu said in an interview on Oct. 9.  Romgaz’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell to 1.1 billion lei in the first half of 2013
from 1.2 billion lei a year earlier, it said in the statement.
Sales declined to 3.8 billion lei in 2012 from 4.2 billion lei
in 2011.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Erste Group Bank AG, Banca
Comerciala Romana SA and Raiffeisen Capital & Investment SA are
managing the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  