-- Rosengren Says Fed Communications Unpredictable Policy Tool
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-10-11T18:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/rosengren-says-fed-communications-are-unpredictable-policy-tool.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said central bankers’ difficulty in
using communications as a policy tool is underscored by the
recent rise in interest rates on expectations of a reduction in
the pace of the Fed’s bond buying.  “The fact that the possibility of small future changes in
policy could elicit such large movements in market interest
rates and asset prices emphasizes that while central bank
communication can be a powerful tool, it has also proven an
imprecise and unpredictable instrument in terms of its impact on
long-term rates,” Rosengren, who votes on policy this year,
said in the text of remarks to the Council on Foreign Relations
in New York.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was 2.68
percent as of 2:30 p.m. in New York, up from 1.93 percent on May
21, the day before Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke first outlined a
possible timetable for paring the central bank’s $85 billion in
monthly asset purchases, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. Yields have fallen from 2.99 percent on Sept. 5 after
the Fed surprised investors at its meeting last month by
refraining from scaling back bond purchases.  Heading into the Federal Open Market Committee’s Sept. 17-18 meeting, “many market participants thought that there was a
reasonably high probability of a reduction in Fed asset
purchases,” while others “saw a relatively high probability”
policy makers would wait, Rosengren said, citing the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s survey of primary dealers conducted
before the meeting.  Caveats Overlooked  “This lack of unanimity was likely to generate
consternation,” he said. “No calendar date was specified, and
it was clearly communicated that the economy needed to progress
as expected for policy to be modified -- but again, those
caveats tended to get much less attention.”  Bernanke said in June that he may reduce monthly securities
buying this year and halt it by mid-2014. He also said he
expected the Fed would complete its bond buying when the jobless
level was around 7 percent.  Unemployment (USURTOT)  fell to 7.3 percent in
August for what Rosengren described as an “unwelcome” reason:
Americans giving up on finding work.  “Tying policy to a particular outcome for one economic
variable may be observable and transparent, and reduce the
uncertainty around monetary policy action -- but could also
provide the wrong signal and could lead to policies that
actually move the economy in a direction inconsistent with the
choice a policymaker would make with more flexibility,”
Rosengren said.  Taper Delay  Weaker economic data between the FOMC’s June and September
gatherings, the “higher-than-anticipated jump” in bond yields,
and the risk of “possible fiscal-policy disruptions” made
refraining from tapering in September “warranted,” Rosengren
said.  Fiscal policy is a “shock” central bankers “have to
react to,” Rosengren said in response to audience questions
after his speech. President  Barack Obama  and Republican
lawmakers are debating how to end a partial government shutdown
and to extend the government’s borrowing authority, which the
Treasury Department says will be exhausted Oct. 17.  If lawmakers fail to reach a debt limit agreement, “it’s a
shutdown on steroids,” he said. It would send interest rates
higher for all Americans “not only now, but for the foreseeable
future.”  The Fed, which lowered its target interest rate to near
zero in December 2008, can’t lower borrowing costs enough to
offset the potential damage, he said.  Communications Difficulties  “The experience of the past several months makes it clear
that a data-driven policy that also considers the risks to our
forecasts can be difficult to communicate,” Rosengren said.
“Combined with the lack of historical precedent for many of the
Fed’s recent monetary policy actions, these challenges make us
realistic and humble about our ability to gauge the likely
impact of our communications at the zero lower bound.”  The ability to communicate well has become an increasingly
important quality for the chairman of the Fed since Bernanke has
begun holding press conferences after policy meetings, Rosengren
said in response to audience questions. Janet Yellen, Obama’s
nominee to succeed Bernanke, will be a successful communicator,
Rosengren said.  Yellen, who has headed a Fed communications subcommittee
and helped designed its transparency initiatives, “will be very
good at speaking very precisely, very clearly, and very
calmly,” Rosengren said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  