-- Rupiah Forwards Rally Most in Three Weeks on U.S. Debt Progress
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-10-11T02:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/rupiah-forwards-rally-most-in-three-weeks-on-u-s-debt-progress.html
Indonesia’s rupiah forwards gained
the most in three weeks after U.S. lawmakers said they had
constructive talks on raising the debt ceiling, reducing the
chance of a default and improving global risk sentiment.  President  Barack Obama  pledged to keep speaking with  House
Republicans  to end the partial government shutdown and raise the
debt limit before an Oct. 17 deadline to prevent non-payment on
state borrowings. Indonesia’s current-account deficit at 2.5
percent to 2.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2014 would
be “acceptable,” compared with 4.4 percent last quarter,
Senior Deputy Governor Mirza Adityaswara said yesterday.  “Asian currencies across the board are rising as the U.S.
debt ceiling discussion moves forward,” said Saktiandi Supaat,
head of foreign-exchange research at  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  in
 Singapore . “Longer-term strengthening in the rupiah will be
data-dependent, with all eyes on the external balance.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards on the rupiah rose 1.4
percent to 11,125 per dollar as of 9:22 a.m. in Jakarta, the
biggest gain since Sept. 19, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The offshore contracts gained 1.6 percent this week and were 3
percent stronger than the spot rate, which advanced 0.2 percent
today and 0.4 percent this week to 11,473 per dollar, according
to prices from local banks.  A fixing used to settle the forwards was set at 11,222 per
dollar yesterday, according to the Association of Banks in
Singapore. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, today to 15.6 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hedging Rules  Bank Indonesia  set guidelines for individuals and companies,
including state-owned firms, to hedge against currency swings,
it said in an Oct. 9 statement. The rules are aimed at helping
stabilize the rupiah, it said.  “We will see more impact on the volatility starting next
month as local companies take out hedges,” Supaat said.  The yield on the government’s 5.625 percent bonds due May
2023 fell one basis point to 8.03 percent today, the lowest
level since Sept. 24, prices from the Inter Dealer Market
Association show. The yield dropped eight basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  