-- Russia Corporate Scandals ‘Striking,’ Prosperity CEO Says
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-10-11T14:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/russia-corporate-scandals-striking-prosperity-ceo-says.html
Russian minority investors are
enduring the worst year for corporate governance scandals since
2009, according to Mattias Westman, chief executive officer of
Prosperity Capital Management.  “There have been structural improvements, but the specific
corporate governance scandals this year have been striking,”
Westman, whose firm manages about $4 billion and is the world’s
largest Russia-focused money manager, said today by phone from
 London . “It’s the worst year since after the crisis in 2009.”  Prosperity and investors including Templeton  Emerging
Markets  Group and Allianz Investments are contesting a move by
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , the world’s biggest publicly traded oil producer,
not to buy out minority shareholders in oil producer TNK-BP.  President Vladimir Putin’s government is struggling to lure
foreign investors to counter capital outflows due to corporate
governance disputes this year at TNK-BP, OAO Pharmstandard,
Russia’s biggest drugmaker, and OAO Uralkali, the world’s
largest potash producer. Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (MOSBIRZ)  trades
at the cheapest levels of all major emerging-market indexes.  Shares in TNK-BP, since renamed OAO RN Holding, jumped as
much as 18 percent on Sept. 27 after Rosneft CEO Igor Sechin
said his company may buy back minority shareholders at a
premium. Until then, Sechin had resisted minority investors’
demands, saying at Rosneft’s annual general meeting in April
that Rosneft was “not a charity fund.”  ‘Disappointing’ Offer  Rosneft has approved a buyout at 67 rubles a common share
and 55 rubles for preferred shares in RN Holding. Sberbank CIB
analysts said the offer was “disappointing” for investors as
they estimated Rosneft paid about $3.70 a share, or about 120
rubles a share, to London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  and a group of Russian
billionaires in a $55 billion cash-and-share deal.  Westman said Prosperity hasn’t received the offer. “We
will want to see a buyout offer that is higher, but some
investors had given up and didn’t think we get anything,” he
said.  Alexander Branis, chief investment officer at Moscow-based
Prosperity, advises the Kremlin on corporate governance and will
shortly submit proposals on mandatory offers for minority
shareholders, according to Westman.  “As part of our work trying to make Moscow into an
international finance center, we are coming up with proposals to
strengthen the hand of minority shareholders,” he said, without
going into specific details.  Hermitage Capital  Hermitage Capital, once  Russia ’s largest portfolio
investor, shut its Russia fund in March as its founder, Bill Browder, was being sued for libel in London and tried in
absentia for tax evasion in Moscow.  Hermitage, a shareholder activist fund that American-born
Browder started in 1996 with the late billionaire Edmond Safra,
peaked at more than $4 billion in 2005, according to Browder.
Russia that year barred Browder from the country without
explanation, triggering years of legal conflict, including over
the 2009 death of Hermitage adviser Sergei Magnitsky while he
was in pretrial detention in Moscow.  Westman said he had “no fears” that Prosperity could be
hounded from Russia as Hermitage was.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  