-- S&P 500 Gains for Week on Optimism Over Debt Deal, Yellen
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-10-11T22:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/s-p-500-gains-for-week-on-optimism-over-debt-deal-yellen.html
U.S.  stocks  rose for the week, after
back-to-back slides in benchmark indexes, on optimism lawmakers
will reach a deal to avoid a government default and  Janet Yellen 
won’t withdraw stimulus soon as Federal Reserve chairman.  Alcoa (AA)  Inc. rose 4.5 percent for the week after marking the
unofficial start of the third-quarter earnings season by beating 
estimates . Hewlett-Packard Co. rallied 7.2 percent after saying
it expects to return more cash to shareholders and sees revenue
stabilizing following a multiyear decline. Gap Inc. plunged 9.1
percent as same-store sales missed analysts’ estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.8 percent to
1,703.20 over the five days, regaining its losses since the
government’s partial shutdown that started Oct. 1. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  advanced 164.53 points, or 1.1 percent, to
15,237.11. Both gauges fell during the previous two weeks.  “The proposal for a short-term increase in the debt
ceiling buys time and clearly avoids potential default near-term,” Terry Sandven, the Minneapolis-based chief equity
strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, said in a phone
interview. He helps oversee $112 billion. “The broad equity
market will be in a holding pattern in part because the issues
remain and we still need to find out what the final resolution
will be.”  The  S&P 500  jumped 2.2 percent on Oct. 10, the most since
Jan. 2, as a House Republican proposal emerged for a short-term
increase in the debt ceiling. The index slumped 2.1 percent in
the first two days of the week as concern grew that a deadlock
among lawmakers over the debt limit would lead to a government
default.  ‘Catastrophic’ Consequences  Without an increase to the debt ceiling, the U.S. will
exhaust its borrowing authority on Oct. 17 and would run out of
funds to pay all of its bills sometime between Oct. 22 and Oct.
31, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The Treasury
Department said Oct. 3 that a default could have
“catastrophic” consequences that might last decades.  The last time President  Barack Obama  and Congress sparred
over whether to raise the debt ceiling, in August 2011, S&P
stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating. The S&P 500 fell
more than 11 percent in three days. The losses were later
reversed, as the  Fed (FDTR)  pledged to hold the benchmark  interest rate 
near zero and maintain bond purchases to support the economy.  Yellen Nomination  Equities also gained in the latest week after Obama
nominated Janet Yellen, the current Fed vice chairman, to
succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as head of the central bank. As a top
deputy to Bernanke, whose term expires Jan. 31, Yellen supported
the central bank’s bond-buying programs that have helped propel
the S&P 500 up as much as 155 percent from a 12-year low in
March 2009.  The benchmark index jumped to a record on Sept. 18 as the
Fed unexpectedly refrained from reducing its $85 billion monthly
bond-buying program, saying it wants more evidence of an
economic recovery before scaling back stimulus.  “If we get past this uncertainty, if we know that Yellen’s
going to come in and likely do what Bernanke has done, if
there’s only going to be one tapering this year and it’s going
to be small in magnitude, well I think there’s a lot more upside
for the markets,” Kevin Mahn, president and chief investment
officer at Hennion & Walsh Asset Management, said in a phone
interview from Parsippany,  New Jersey . He helps manage $2
billion.  Volatility Gauge  Investors were whipsawed by volatility in the market during
the week. The S&P 500 dropped 1.2 percent on Oct. 8, followed by
the 2.2 percent rally two days later.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , the
gauge of S&P 500 options prices known as the VIX, surged 22
percent in the first two trading days, before tumbling to end
the week down 6.1 percent at 15.72.  Seven out of 10 main  industries  in the S&P 500 rose as
utilities and consumer-staples companies advanced at least 1.7
percent to pace gains. Consumer discretionary shares fell 0.4
percent for the biggest drop. Consumer sentiment in the U.S.
fell in October to a nine-month low on concern about the
government shutdown and debt-ceiling debate, data released Oct.
11 showed.  Economic Data  With few economic reports available because of the
shutdown, investors are focusing on third-quarter corporate
earnings. Profits for companies in the S&P 500 probably
increased 1.4 percent during the three months while sales rose 2
percent, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The most important things for the stock market continues
to be earnings and interest rates,” Gene Peroni, portfolio
manager at Advisors Asset Management Inc., said in a phone
interview from Conshohocken,  Pennsylvania . His firm oversees
more than $12 billion. “While the market can be unsettled from
time to time by geopolitical factors or political goings on here
at home, those two factors continue to be squarely bullish for
the market going forward.”  Alcoa rose 4.5 percent to $8.32 for the week. The aluminum
producer’s third-quarter earnings exceeded analyst estimates as
its smelting business returned to profitability and results
improved at a unit that makes auto and aerospace parts.  Slack Demand  Hewlett-Packard Co. rallied 7.2 percent to $22.80. Chief
Executive Officer  Meg Whitman  is contending with declining sales
from slack demand for personal computers and stepped up
competition in the business-technology market. While analysts
are projecting a 3 percent drop in 2014 sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, Whitman said she expects “revenue to
stabilize.”  Hewlett-Packard shares have jumped 60 percent in 2013,
after reaching their lowest in a decade in November.  Johnson & Johnson climbed 2.5 percent to $89.45 as the
seller of health-care products was raised to neutral from sell
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Darden Restaurants Inc., owner of the Olive Garden and Red
Lobster dining chains, rose 8.1 percent to $50.50 for the
largest advance among S&P 500 companies. Barington Capital Group
LP took a stake in the company to press for changes.  Gap plunged 9.1 percent to $36.83 and  L Brands (LTD)  Inc. lost
9.3 percent to $56.31. Both retailers posted September same-store sales that missed analysts’ estimates as a lack of new
products and a choppy economy encouraged shoppers to restrain
spending. L Brands, which owns the Victoria’s Secret and Bath
and Body Works brands, was downgraded by Credit Suisse Group AG
to neutral from outperform.  Yum! Brands Inc. retreated 6.3 percent to $67, its biggest
weekly drop since April 5. The owner of the KFC fast-food chain
chain said third-quarter profit fell 68 percent and cut its 2013
earnings forecast as same-store sales dropped in  China .  Citrix Systems Inc. lost 16 percent to $59.08 for the
steepest decline in the S&P 500. The technology company reported
preliminary third-quarter earnings that missed analyst
estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in  New York  at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  