-- San Francisco Transit Unions Delay Strike as Talks Continue
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-10-11T08:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/san-francisco-transit-unions-delay-strike-as-talks-continue-1-.html
Bay Area Rapid Transit unions said
there would be no strike today as a cooling-off period expired
and talks on a new contract were extended past the deadline.  A walkout would disrupt travel for about 400,000 daily
riders for the second time in three months.  “We will continue bargaining through the weekend,”
Service Employees International Union Local 1021 said in a
statement on its website. It set a new deadline of midnight Oct.
13, before the Monday commute.  BART, as the fifth-largest U.S. commuter-rail system is
known, connects the San Francisco-Oakland region and  San
Francisco  International Airport. The unions walked out for four
days in July after their contract expired, costing the Bay Area
economy $70 million, San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee said in August.  “The trains will be running while we continue to
negotiate,” Rick Rice, a BART spokesman, said in a statement.  A strike would force thousands of BART riders to switch to
cars, jamming freeways, stay home or join long lines for buses
and ferries as they did in July.  While the strikers returned temporarily in August, the
unions threated to resume their job action. That was blocked
when a state judge in San Francisco approved a 60-day cooling-off period at the request of Governor  Jerry Brown , a 75-year-old
Democrat. The stay expired last night.  About 3,250 people work for BART, which pays an average of
$79,500 a year to its employees, who also receive $50,800 in
benefits annually, according to the agency’s website.  BART’s major unions are SEIU, representing mechanics and
clerical employees, and the Amalgamated Transit Union, which
bargains for train operators and station agents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  