-- Senators Say Obama Open to Health Law Changes in Talks
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y ,   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-10-11T19:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/senators-say-obama-open-to-health-law-changes-in-talks.html
Senate Republicans said President
 Barack Obama  is open to changing a tax on medical devices in the
future as talks continue about ending a partial government
shutdown and raising the debt limit before U.S. borrowing
authority lapses Oct. 17.  In a meeting today at the White House, Obama didn’t rule
out repealing the tax, which was included in the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, said Senator  Orrin Hatch  of
 Utah , an advocate of the tax’s repeal.  The president said he was encouraged by Senate Republicans’
efforts on a debt-limit plan, said Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona . Obama has insisted that any health-law changes occur
after the government shutdown ends and the debt limit is raised,
senators said.  “I came away with the feeling this is going to be a
difficult experience,” said Hatch, the top Republican on the
Senate Finance Committee.  The meeting with Senate Republicans occurred as the White
House weighs an offer from House Republicans. The House proposal
for a debt-limit increase through Nov. 22 would require Obama to
accept policy conditions attached to a separate spending
measure, said two congressional aides.  House Republicans are scheduled to meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow
to discuss their plans.  Senate Plan  Their Senate counterparts are considering a plan, being
developed by  Susan Collins  of  Maine , that would pair provisions
to raise the debt ceiling and end the shutdown with a device-tax
repeal. It would change pension rules to offset the lost revenue
from the device tax and give federal agencies more flexibility
to manage spending cuts known as sequestration.  “What he didn’t say was, ‘What a great idea, wish I had
thought of that,’” Collins said after declining to provide more
details on the president’s reaction because she didn’t know the
ground rules of the meeting.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.5 percent to
1,700.57 at 1:58 p.m. in New York, erasing losses since the
start of the government’s partial shutdown that began Oct. 1.  Rates on Treasury bills maturing in November and December
jumped for a second day, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  Rates on debt due on Nov. 29 rose five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 0.17 percent as of 2:42 p.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after adding
eight basis points yesterday. They were negative Sept. 30. The
benchmark 10-year Treasury yields were little changed at 2.68
percent after falling as much as four basis points earlier.  ‘Urgent Action’  “The U.S. needs to take urgent action to address short-term fiscal uncertainties,” the Group of 20’s central bankers
and finance ministers said in a statement today.  Changing the device tax, even in a later agreement, could
provide a way for both sides to declare victory -- an essential
component of the negotiations. The 2.3 percent excise tax is
scheduled to raise about $30 billion over the next decade and
has been criticized by Democrats from states with device
manufacturers such as Massachusetts and  Minnesota .  Republicans could say they made a change to Obamacare,
because the medical-device tax was passed as part of the law.
Obama can say he didn’t negotiate on the principles of the
health-care law, because eliminating the tax wouldn’t end the
individual mandate or other main components of Obamacare.  ‘Legitimate Concern’  The president said the medical device tax “is a legitimate
concern and one that we can talk about and admitted that it’s
not part of the core program,” said Hatch, the top Republican
on the Senate Finance Committee.  The president told lawmakers he “was open to any
improvements” to the health care law, though “he’s not open to
changing it much,” said Hatch, a critic of the law. One change,
he said, might be the definition of full-time employees who must
be given coverage by employers. Republicans cite businesses that
are cutting employees’ hours to below the 30 per week threshold.  House Republicans  sent a list of policy options to the
White House following a meeting yesterday, said the House aides,
who spoke on condition of anonymity.  House Republicans also want Obama to agree to a framework
for future negotiations on long-term fiscal and health-care
policy.  Borrowing Authority  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said today he is open to
hearing Republican proposals, though he doesn’t like the idea of
extending U.S. borrowing authority only to Nov. 22. Reid said he
would continue advocating a delay of the next debt-limit fight
into 2015.  “Using their theory, we would have another one of these
periods of bedlam here in Washington right before the most
important purchasing season anytime during the year,” Reid
said, referring to the  holiday shopping season , without saying
he would stop a short-term extension.  Any prospective deal faces questions, including whether
House Speaker  John Boehner  can make a deal with Obama without
losing the support of his hard-line members. They’ve sought to
use the debt ceiling and government shutdown to force curbs on
Obamacare and federal spending.  Republicans should just concede and allow a vote to end the
shutdown without conditions, said Representative  Peter King , a
New York Republican.  “We should cut our losses and get it over with,” King
said in an interview today. “It’s madness to keep the
government closed any longer. It’s a governmental disaster, it’s
a political disaster and it makes no sense.”  Extraordinary Measures  Under Boehner’s plan, the Treasury Department wouldn’t be
able to use so-called extraordinary measures to further extend
borrowing authority, creating a hard deadline, said
Representative  Tom Reed , a New York Republican.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California said
ending the extraordinary measures “isn’t very smart” because
it would limit Treasury’s flexibility.  If the U.S. fails to raise the debt limit by Oct. 17, the
government will have $30 billion plus incoming revenue to pay
its bills. It would start missing scheduled payments, including
benefits, salaries and interest, between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Meanwhile, Senate Democrats are pressing ahead with their
preferred plan, which would push the next debt-limit fight into
2015 and include no policy conditions. A test vote could occur
tomorrow.  Six Republicans  Democrats, who control 54 seats in the 100-member Senate,
would need the support of at least six Republicans on procedural
votes to pass their bill.  Reid’s proposal would suspend the debt ceiling through Dec.
31, 2014. Because the Treasury Department can use extraordinary
measures to stave off default, another increase wouldn’t be
needed until sometime in 2015. The previous debt-limit
suspension expired on May 18 and the extraordinary measures are
lasting five months.  A Wall Street Journal/NBC News  poll  released yesterday
found that 53 percent of those surveyed blamed Republicans for
the fiscal impasse, compared with 31 percent who blame Obama.  The government shutdown started Oct. 1 after Republicans
insisted that further funding for many programs be tied to a
one-year delay in the mandate that individuals lacking health
insurance purchase it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  