-- Serbian Inflation Rate Returns to Target, Paving Way to Rate Cut
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-10-11T14:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/serbian-inflation-rate-returns-to-target-paving-way-to-rate-cut.html
Serbia ’s inflation rate fell to the
lowest level in 16 months to within the central bank’s target
band, raising the chances of monetary easing.  Consumer prices rose 4.9 percent from a year earlier, after
a 7.3 percent increase in August, the statistics office in
Belgrade said today. The “key contribution” to slowing
inflation was from monetary-policy measures, falling
agricultural prices, weak demand and relative dinar stability,
the central bank said on its website.  The Narodna Banka Srbije seeks to keep the inflation rate
at 4 percent plus or minus 1.5 percentage points. Inflation was
last within central bank’s target band in June 2012. The drivers
of last month’s drop in the inflation rate will continue to
weaken price pressure and keep the rate within the target band,
it said.  The “immense inflation decline might open the door for a
very moderate key-rate cut until the end of 2013” even as the
bank maintains a “very cautious attitude” because of fiscal
risks, Ljiljana Grubic, an economist at Raiffeisen Bank AD in
Belgrade, said by phone.  The dinar weakened 0.3 percent to 114.2095 per euro as of
3:31 p.m. in Belgrade. The central bank bought euros today on
the  interbank market  to curb the Serbian currency’s gains,
according to three local bankers who asked not to be identified
in line with their companies’ policies.  The “huge drop” in the inflation rate was “not entirely
expected,” driven by food prices, a base effect, fiscal
consolidation curbing domestic demand and the stable dinar,
Timothy Ash, an economist at  Standard Bank (SBK)  Group Ltd. in  London ,
said in a note to clients.  Inflation Breakdown  September food and beverage prices, which account for more
than a third of the consumer basket, rose 0.4 percent from a
year earlier. Housing, water and electricity costs went up 10.6
percent, tobacco and alcohol rose 21.8 percent and  health
services  9.7 percent, the statistics office said.  The  International Monetary Fund  advised Serbia on Oct. 8 to
remain cautious with monetary policy easing, which “has been
appropriately put on hold,” until fiscal consolidation takes
root.  The central bank has held its benchmark policy rate at 11
percent in the past three months after cutting it by a total of
75 basis points in May and June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  