-- Shark Kills Snorkeler Near ‘Endless Summer’ Surf Site
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2013-10-11T13:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/shark-kills-snorkeler-near-south-africa-s-jeffreys-bay-resort.html
A body, believed to be that of a
man, was found by staff from the National Sea Rescue Institute
after a report of a shark attack near Albatross Beach at the
South African town of Jeffreys Bay.  “The remains of a body have been recovered,” Craig Lambinon, spokesman for the Sea Rescue Institute said by mobile
phone. “We believe it was a guy. The police are investigating
that.”  Jeffreys Bay volunteer sea rescue duty crew used two rescue
craft after the shark incident at Lower Point, next to Albatross
Beach, and  South Africa ’s police services also responded. The
unidentified person was snorkeling at the time of the attack,
the NSRI said, citing eye witnesses.  The area is home to South Africa’s most famous surfing
wave, known as Supertubes, classified as the best right-handed
wave in the world by the Association of Surf Professionals’.
Surfing in Jeffreys Bay and nearby areas became popular after
the 1966 cult movie, Endless Summer, which was partly shot in
nearby St. Francis Bay. The two towns are 20 kilometers (12
miles) apart.  Since 1905 there have been 234 recorded shark attacks off
the South African coast, according to the Florida Museum of
National History, which is part of the University of  Florida . Of
those 52 were fatal with 12 of those deaths occuring in the
Eastern Cape province, where Jeffreys Bay is located. Fatal
attacks were recorded last year in both the Eastern and Western
Cape.  Great whites, tiger sharks and bull sharks are among the
species found off South Africa’s coast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  