-- MLB Gets San Jose Antitrust Claims Tossed From A’s Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t ,   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-10-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/some-san-jose-claims-dismissed-against-major-league-baseball.html
Major League Baseball  won dismissal
of antitrust claims in a lawsuit accusing it of keeping the
 Oakland Athletics  from moving to San Jose,  California , to shield
the  San Francisco Giants  from competition.  U.S. District Judge Ronald M. Whyte in San Jose yesterday
barred the city from refiling its antitrust claims, saying it
hasn’t suggested how they could be successfully argued and “nor
does the court see how they could be.” The judge, rejecting an
MLB request, allowed the city to pursue claims based on
interference with its contract and economic advantage.  Whyte said he was bound by earlier court decisions
exempting the major leagues from antitrust laws. Baseball’s
exemption has been in place since 1922, when  Supreme Court 
Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes issued a three-page opinion saying
the clubs weren’t subject to federal laws because they weren’t
engaged in interstate commerce.  “This court agrees with the other jurists that have found
baseball’s antitrust exemption to be ‘unrealistic, inconsistent,
or illogical,’” Whyte said in yesterday’s ruling, citing
previous decisions. “The exemption is an ‘aberration’ that
makes little sense given the heavily interstate nature of the
‘business of baseball’ today.”  ‘Blatant Conspiracy’  Challenging baseball’s exemption, San Jose alleged in its
complaint a “blatant conspiracy” to prevent the A’s from
moving, costing the city millions of dollars in new sales-tax
revenue. The A’s currently play their home games at the O.co
Coliseum in Oakland, on the east side of the  San Francisco  Bay.  San Jose sought baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig ’s blessing
to relocate the A’s in 2010, according to the complaint. He
hasn’t approved the move, which would place the team in the
defined territory of the Giants, according to the suit, which
names Selig as a defendant.  Major League Baseball sought to block the A’s move using
provisions of its rules that unlawfully restrict the transfer
and relocation of teams, San Jose said in the complaint. One
such rule prohibits teams from moving “within the operating
territory of a member without the written consent of such
member.”  ‘Great Victory’  Philip Gregory, a lawyer for San Jose, called yesterday’s
ruling “a great victory.”  “The ruling means that the city’s claims that MLB is
interfering with its option agreement to move the A’s can
proceed to trial,” Gregory said in a phone interview. “We
would hope that baseball would act in a positive way.”  Gregory’s partner, Joe Cotchett, said in the statement that
 San Jose  will appeal Whyte’s antitrust ruling, adding that it is
“hard to believe Major League Baseball is not subject to the
same antitrust rules that apply to all other sports.”  Major League Baseball said in an e-mailed statement that it
was pleased the judge dismissed “the heart of San Jose’s action
and confirmed that MLB has the legal right to make decisions
about the relocation of its member clubs.”  “We are confident that the remaining state law claims,
which assert that San Jose’s costs associated with the option
agreement for the sale of real estate were increased by the
timing of MLB’s decision-making process, will be decided in
MLB’s favor, and that San Jose has not suffered any compensable
injury,” according to the statement.  Territorial Rights  A team has exclusive territorial rights in the city where
it’s located and within 50 miles (80 kilometers) of the city’s
corporate limits, according to the complaint. The proposed site
for a new Athletics ballpark in San Jose is 48 miles from the
Giants’ AT&T Park in San Francisco. The Giants already have a
minor-league affiliate in San Jose.  “The decision is clearly right on the antitrust issues,”
 Mark Lemley , a Stanford Law School professor, said in an e-mail.
“While the baseball exemption doesn’t make much logical sense,
the Supreme Court created it, and it is the Supreme Court, or
Congress, that has to get rid of it.”  The Oakland A’s lost Game 5 at home yesterday in the
playoff series against the  Detroit Tigers , who will go on to
play the  Boston Red Sox  in the American League Championship
Series.  The dispute over moving a team to San Jose, California’s
third-largest city, dates back to the 1980s, when the Giants
unsuccessfully tried to get San Francisco voters to approve a
new ballpark. After considering a move to San Jose, the Giants
got their own stadium in San Francisco in 2000.  “No matter what the outcome of any legal action, the A’s
have and will continue to follow the process available to all
MLB ownerships in our desire to have a modern and exciting state
of the art baseball-only venue,”  Lew Wolff , the team’s owner,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is City of San Jose v. Office of the Commissioner
of Baseball, 13-cv-02787, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in federal court in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  