-- Sonny Bill Williams Rejects Pathway to All Blacks Rugby Return
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-11T04:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/sonny-bill-williams-rejects-pathway-to-all-blacks-rugby-return.html
Sonny Bill Williams rejected the
chance to return to play rugby union in  New Zealand  next year
and will instead stay with  Australia ’s Sydney Roosters National
Rugby League team.  The 28-year-old Williams, a Rugby  World Cup  winner with the
All Blacks in 2011, turned down an offer from governing body New
Zealand Rugby and the Super Rugby champion Chiefs to remain with
the Roosters team that secured the NRL title on Oct. 6.  “We obviously worked pretty hard to bring Sonny home and
we have had some really good conversations with him,” Neil
Sorensen, New Zealand Rugby’s general manager of professional
rugby, said in a statement. “This is disappointing, but we know
we put our best foot forward and in the end Sonny has made his
decision.”  Williams, who also boxes professionally and has won all six
of his heavyweight fights, scored six tries in 19 Tests for the
All Blacks in 2010 to 2012 before returning to the NRL, where he
started his professional sporting career in 2004.  He won his second NRL championship five days ago and today
“pledged his commitment to the Roosters for season 2014,” the
team said in a statement.  “The club anticipates that Williams will officially sign
in mid-February 2014 for the remainder of the season on the same
terms and conditions as his 2013 contract,” the Roosters said.  Australian bookmaker  Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. (TAH)  said the
retention of Williams sent the Roosters into outright favoritism
to win back-to-back titles, at the same time lengthening the
Chiefs’ odds of another Super Rugby championship.  Roosters Slashed  “Such is the influence of Sonny Bill Williams, we were
forced to slash the Roosters’ price to win again next year,”
said Tabcorp spokesman Matt Jenkins. “He also ensured New
Zealand firmed earlier this week to win the Rugby League World
Cup, while the Chiefs have drifted to win the Super Rugby.”  Williams’s decision on his future comes in the same week
that he changed his mind about playing for New Zealand at this
year’s rugby league global championship, which starts Oct. 26.
Williams initially said he wasn’t available for selection and
was omitted from the Kiwis’ 24-man squad before being added
later at the expense of another player.  The 6-foot-4, 238-pound Williams, who holds the New Zealand
Professional Boxing Association heavyweight title, began his
career with the NRL’s Canterbury Bulldogs, helping the Sydney-based team win the Premiership in his rookie season in 2004.  Sports Hopper  The Auckland-born Williams switched to rugby union four
years later to play for Toulon in  France  and returned to New
Zealand in 2010, earning selection to the All Blacks squad at
the end of that year even though he hadn’t yet played at Super
Rugby level.  After helping New Zealand end its 24-year Rugby World Cup
drought with four tries in seven games at the 2011 tournament,
Williams joined the Chiefs and the Hamilton-based team secured
its first southern hemisphere provincial championship in 2012.
He then had a stint with a Japanese rugby club before linking up
with the Roosters.  New Zealand Rugby officials will “continue to keep the
lines of communication open” with Williams about his playing
career, Sorensen said. Chiefs coach Dave Rennie added that he
hadn’t given up on eventually luring him back. The All Blacks
will defend their world title in 2015.  “While we are disappointed that Sonny won’t be with us in
2014 now, we’ll be keen to keep talking to him about future
options,” Rennie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  