-- Sony Profits Challenged by Weaker Emerging-Market Currencies
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-10-11T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/sony-profits-challenged-by-weaker-emerging-market-currencies.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  profits are challenged by
weakening emerging-market currencies such as the Brazilian real
and the Indian rupee that are cutting the value of overseas
sales repatriated to  Japan .  The world economy hasn’t improved to the level that’s
“ideal” for Sony, Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  told
reporters in  Tokyo  today. Sluggish economies and falling
emerging-market currencies are among its “major challenges,”
he said.  “As our businesses in  emerging markets  become a larger
part of our portfolio, exchange rates there have lost balance,
which may impact our profit,” Hirai said.  The yen has strengthened 14 percent versus the rupee and 12
percent against the real in the past six months. Sony is
continuing to promote reform and cost-reduction efforts, Hirai
said. The company is forecasting back-to-back annual  profit 
after one-time gains that included the sale of its  New York 
headquarters helped it end four straight years of losses in the
12 months ended March.  Japan’s iconic consumer electronics maker is introducing
new products such as the $399 PlayStation 4 to be introduced
next month in the U.S., a new flagship smartphone and 65-inch
ultra high-definition televisions to boost sales during the
year-end shopping season.  Sales Forecast  In August, the Tokyo-based company raised its full-year
sales  forecast  5.3 percent to 7.9 trillion yen for the year to
March 2014, citing a weaker yen against the euro. Sony, which is
expected to post a 23 percent increase in net income to 53
billion yen for the year ending in March 2014, is set to report
second-quarter earnings on Oct. 31.  Sony’s electronics businesses together posted about 130
billion yen in operating losses last fiscal year as TV and
mobile devices lost money, Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato
said in May. Sony plans to make the TV unit and mobile-phone
unit profitable this fiscal year.  The TV unit alone has lost almost $8 billion in the past
nine years amid competition from South Korea’s Samsung
Electronics Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  The world’s No. 3 TV
maker’s market share in terms of revenue  rose to 8  percent in
three months ended June 30 from 5.2 percent in the previous
quarter, DisplaySearch said last month.  The maker of Bravia TVs plans to sell 15 million units this
fiscal year, up from 13.5 million units sold in the previous
year, it said in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  