-- Swedish Match Falls as U.S. Cigars Disappoint: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-10-11T09:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/swedish-match-sees-third-quarter-profit-blow-at-u-s-cigar-unit.html
Swedish Match AB (SWMA) , the maker of
Longhorn snuff, declined the most in almost eight months in
Stockholm trading after it warned that full-year earnings at its
U.S. cigars and chewing tobacco unit will decline.  The shares lost as much as  5.9 percent  to 217.3 kronor,
their steepest intraday drop since Feb. 20 and lowest price
since April 29. The stock fell 4.2 as of 11:33 a.m. local time,
with trading volume at more than three times the daily average
in the past three months. Swedish Match was the biggest decliner
on the STOXX Europe 600 index.  Third-quarter operating profit at the U.S. cigars and
chewing tobacco unit fell by as much as 60 million kronor ($9.3
million) from a year earlier as it steps up price cuts and
promotions in the face of mounting competition, the maker of Red
Man and Timber Wolf chewing tobacco said in a statement. The
division accounts for about a fifth of group revenue.  “During recent months, competitive activities for U.S.
cigars have intensified further, which has resulted in lower-than-expected volumes and operating profit for our U.S. mass-market cigar business in the third quarter,” the Stockholm-based company said. The division’s operating profit for the full
year will also be below last year’s level.  “This is a disappointment, but it’s not a huge surprise,”
Haakon Aschehoug, an analyst at DNB ASA in Oslo, said in a
telephone interview today, adding that he had anticipated
operating profit to be unchanged for the unit both for the third
quarter and the full year. As the cigar business generates a
relatively small part of the company’s profit, today’s news is
“not the end of the world,” he said.  Of the 23 analysts that cover Swedish Match and share their
ratings with Bloomberg, 14 advise their  clients to buy  the
shares, two have hold ratings and seven advise clients to sell.
The average share-price estimate is 259.65 kronor, based on 17
estimates.  Swedish Match is scheduled to report earnings for the three
months through September on Oct. 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Jarvis in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  