-- U.K. Inflation Rate Probably Declined to Lowest in Five Months
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 2013-10-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/u-k-inflation-rate-probably-declined-to-lowest-in-five-months.html
U.K. inflation  probably slowed in
September, pushing its average for the third quarter below the
level forecast by the  Bank of England .  Consumer prices rose 2.6 percent from a year earlier
compared with 2.7 percent in August, according to the median of
34 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. That would be the
least since April.  Core inflation , which excludes food and
energy costs, remained at 2 percent, a separate poll showed.  The decline would put the average rate for the quarter at
2.7 percent, below the 2.8 percent in the Monetary Policy
Committee’s August projections. It still leaves inflation above
the central bank’s 2 percent target, and the improving economic
recovery and energy-price increases may add to upward pressure.  “Inflation is expected to drift gradually lower in the
remainder of this year,” said  Ross Walker , an economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “But with an
underlying strengthening in the recovery, another round of hefty
utility price hikes in the pipeline, and a more accommodative
MPC policy remit, the risks remain skewed towards an ongoing
overshoot of the target in 2014.”  The  Office for National Statistics  will publish the data on
Oct. 15. Walker forecasts a 2.6 percent inflation rate.  Michael Saunders  at Citigroup Inc., who also predicts 2.6 percent, cited
base effects from gasoline prices, which rose sharply in
September 2012, as a factor. Projections in the  Bloomberg survey 
range from 2.4 percent to 2.7 percent.  The BOE kept its  key interest rate  at a record-low 0.5
percent this week and its bond-buying program on hold at 375
billion pounds ($598 billion). Governor  Mark Carney  introduced
forward guidance in August, pledging to keep interest rates
unchanged until unemployment falls to 7 percent. The policy is
voided if inflation expectations become dislodged.  Separate data next week will show the  jobless rate  in the
three months through August remained at 7.7 percent, economists
said in another survey. The ONS will publish the labor-market
data on Oct. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Evans  in London at 
 mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  