-- U.K. to Plan Budget for Low-CO2 Power Deals This Year
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-10-11T12:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/u-k-to-plan-budget-for-low-co2-power-deals-this-year.html
The U.K. government said it plans to
propose by year-end budgets for each successive round of long-term power contracts that will be awarded under new laws to
boost nuclear and renewable power.  The money available for the so-called contracts for
difference, or CFDs, must fall within annual caps that the
government has set for assistance to low-carbon energy through
to 2021, the Department of Energy and Climate Change said today
in an industry  consultation  on its website.  “Whilst it is hoped that the CFD budget will not need to
be frequently amended it is sensible to ensure that the budget
assigned to the allocation of CFDs can be quickly amended when
this is needed,” the government said, explaining why it plans
to publish the details in a document rather than in legislation.  The contracts are the centerpiece of the government’s
efforts to reform the power market and stimulate 110 billion
pounds ($175.7 billion) of investment it says is needed to build
new generation capacity and power grid infrastructure by 2020.  With energy regulator Ofgem warning that the risk of
blackouts is increasing, ministers are trying to spur utilities
from  Electricite de France SA  to  SSE Plc (SSE)  to build new  power
plants .  Under contracts for difference, utilities will receive a
guaranteed price per megawatt-hour of power they produce, over a
fixed number of years. The deals aim to provide investors in new
capacity the security they need to build plants.  Indicative budgets for each tax year from 2014-15 through
2018-19 will be be published in a delivery plan scheduled for
publication in December, the ministry said.  Ring-fence Debated  They’ll also be included in a draft document called the
“ CFD Allocation Technical Framework ” early in 2014, with a
final version coming in “late spring,” the government said.
That document may also detail how often allocation rounds will
be held, it said.  The government said it’s considering dividing the budget up
between different technologies, using either “maxima” to
determine the maximum amount that can be allocated to a given
power source, and “minima” to ring-fence a portion of the
budget for one technology.  The CFD program must operate within already-fixed spending
allowances for low-carbon generation that also funds the
government’s existing Renewables Obligation and feed-in-tariffs
for small-scale renewables. Those concessions rise from 4.3
billion pounds in the 2015-16 tax year to 7.6 billion pounds in
2020-21.  Nuclear Talks  The government said the reforms may become law by year-end,
though many of the details need to be spelled out in secondary
legislation. The first applications for the contracts are
expected to be made in the second half of next year, with the
contracts beginning in the 2018-19 tax year, it said.  In the interim period before contracts for difference can
be awarded, the government plans to award interim investment
contracts that can later be converted to CFDs.  The government is already in talks with EDF subsidiary NNB
GenCo to sign an investment contract for a proposed new nuclear
plant at Hinkley Point in southwest  England .  Those talks have dragged on for more than a year over
disagreements on what “strike price” the generator should
receive for its power, and EDF has had to postpone a final
 investment decision  it initially wanted to make by the end of
2012. Energy Minister  Michael Fallon  said earlier this month he
hopes a deal will come “in the next few weeks.”  The consultation document contains new information on how
the contracts will work and be awarded, and how the government
plans to introduce and operate a capacity market designed to
ensure generating capacity is available to be brought online at
times of peak demand. The consultation closes on Dec. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  