-- U.K. Labour Price Cap Risks Offshore Wind Investment, SSE Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-11T15:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/u-k-labour-price-cap-risks-offshore-wind-investment-sse-says.html
A U.K. opposition Labour Party plan
to cap energy bills if it wins the 2015 election risks delaying
investments in offshore wind before the vote,  SSE Plc (SSE)  said.  “Although we are continuing to develop offshore wind
projects, it’s now also becoming increasingly hard to see how a
final decision on investment in new offshore wind capacity could
be made before the 2015 election,” spokesman Justyn Smith said.  A Labour government would cap British gas and electricity
prices until the start of 2017 should it triumph in the 2015
poll, party leader  Ed Miliband  said on Sept. 24. SSE, which
yesterday raised its consumer tariffs, already said in March it
wouldn’t decide whether to build new gas plants until at least
2015 because of “ongoing uncertainty” over  energy policy .  The Conservative-led government says a freeze jeopardizes
investment, risking power cuts.  Caroline Flint , Labour’s energy
spokeswoman, said today investors needed long-term certainty on
policy rather than short-term returns based on “overcharging.”  The U.K. is seeking to lure about 110 billion pounds ($175
billion) of investment, funded with levies on consumer bills, to
replace  power plants  that are retiring and reduce greenhouse gas
emissions. SSE has stakes in three operating offshore wind farms
and is involved in developing five more of the projects.  The Perth, Scotland-based company yesterday said it would
raise household energy prices an average 8.2 percent, prompting
a backlash from consumer groups such as the uSwitch comparison
service who say costs are forcing customers to cut heating.  The government’s green energy levies were responsible for a
third of the increase and pressing ahead with such policies will
lead to more price gains, SSE Chief Executive Officer Alistair Phillips-Davies told the Telegraph newspaper in an interview.  “We need to think about what people really want to pay
for,” Phillips-Davies told the London-based newspaper. “Maybe
it’s time to retreat from decarbonization and focus more on the
cost of living. I think we have to have a debate about it.”  Environmental campaigners argue that reducing reliance on
fossil fuels with volatile prices will mean cost cuts in future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  