-- U.K. Homebuilding Surge Limits Decline in Construction Output
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-10-11T08:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/u-k-homebuilding-surge-limits-decline-in-construction-output.html
U.K.  construction output  declined in
August as a drop in infrastructure, public work and maintenance
offset a surge in homebuilding to its highest level for at least
three years.  Construction, which accounts for 6.3 percent of the
economy, slipped 0.1 percent from July, when it rose a revised
2.8 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London.
New private house building increased 1.6 percent on the month
and 18.1 percent from a year earlier, the biggest annual
increase since June 2011.  Construction is being boosted by demand for homes after a
government program allowing purchases with minimal deposits got
under way in April. An index of building activity stayed close
to its highest level since at least 2008 in September, according
to Markit Economics.  The pickup may ease concerns that Help to Buy is fueling a
bubble in the  property market  as the pace of building struggles
to keep up with demand. In the second quarter, the latest period
for which a regional breakdown is available, homebuilding was
“overwhelmingly driven” by London, where new private housing
orders more than tripled, according to the statistics office.  In the three months through August, construction increased
2.4 percent compared with the previous quarter, suggesting the
industry contributed to  gross domestic product growth  in the
third quarter. Private homebuilding, which accounts for almost
16 percent of total construction, surged 8.4 percent in that
period and was up 15.3 percent from a year earlier.  In August, construction rose 4 percent compared with the
same month in 2012, the biggest increase since December 2011.
Today’s report also showed that on a non-seasonally adjusted
basis, construction output rose 0.6 percent in August from July
and was up 3.5 percent compared with a year earlier.  Construction grew 1.9 percent in the second quarter and
added 0.1 percentage point to GDP. The economy expanded 0.7
percent in the period. The ONS is scheduled to publish its first
estimate of third-quarter GDP on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Fergal O’Brien} in  London  at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  