-- U.S. Retailers’ September Store Sales Miss Estimates
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-10-11T20:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/u-s-retailers-september-store-sales-miss-estimates.html
U.S. retailers including  Gap Inc. (GPS) 
and  L Brands Inc. (LTD)  posted September same-store sales that missed
analysts’ estimates as a lack of new products and a choppy
economy encouraged shoppers to restrain spending.  Same-store sales for the more than 10 retailers tracked by
Retail Metrics Inc. rose 2.3 percent last month, excluding
results from drugstores, the Swampscott, Massachusetts-based
researcher said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Analysts’
had estimated a 3.4 percent gain, the researcher said.  The lower-than-projected sales signal consumers are still
holding back spending amid higher taxes, uncertainty about the
implementation of the Affordable Care Act and the first
government shutdown in 17 years, which took effect on Oct. 1.
Last month also was warmer than usual, damping sales of fall
merchandise and leading retailers to deepen discounts to lure
shoppers.  “The lack of product newness drives weak mall traffic,
which drives ongoing promotions,” Simeon Siegel, a New York-based analyst at Nomura Securities, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “Couple that with unseasonable weather when you want
to be selling seasonable products and that leaves you with less-than-exciting results.”  Gap, the largest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer, said
yesterday in a statement that same-store sales fell 3 percent,
while the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Retail
Metrics was for a 1.8 percent gain. Shares of the San Francisco-based company fell 6.7 percent to $36.83 at the close in  New
York .  Warm September  L Brands, which owns the Victoria’s Secret and Bath & Body
Works brands, said in a statement that comparable-store sales
rose 1 percent, missing the estimate for a 2.1 percent increase.
The Columbus, Ohio-based company released its results before the
market opened yesterday. The shares fell 0.5 percent to $56.31
today.  September was warmer and wetter than last year, according
to data compiled by Siegel, which may have kept shoppers out of
stores pushing sweaters and jeans. To clear fall merchandise for
colder-weather and holiday items, retailers deepened discounts,
many offering items for 25 percent to 40 percent off the
original price, according to Retail Metrics.  Warehouse club  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , which boosted August
sales results as shoppers sought durable goods, trailed
estimates this month, posting a 3 percent sales increase,
compared with a forecast for 3.4 percent growth.  Most chains tally same-store sales using locations open at
least a year, making the figure a closely watched gauge of a
retailer’s health because it tracks only established stores.  The partial shutdown has closed government services and
furloughed federal workers. The government also faces default
unless an agreement is reached between President  Barack Obama 
and  House Republicans  by Oct. 17 to raise the nation’s debt
ceiling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  