-- Hulu Said to Be Close to Naming Fox’s Hopkins as CEO
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-10-11T20:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/hulu-said-close-to-naming-fox-s-mike-hopkins-ceo-of-web-service.html
Hulu  LLC, the video streaming
service controlled by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and 21st Century  Fox (FOXA)  Inc.,
is close to naming Fox executive Mike Hopkins as its chief
executive officer, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The appointment is expected to be announced shortly, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
deliberations are private. Hopkins, president of distribution
for  Fox Networks  and a Hulu board member, would succeed acting
CEO Andy Forssell.  With Hopkins, Hulu would gain an executive experienced in
negotiating with pay-TV services. The company wants to become an
online partner to the industry, giving subscribers mobile and
online access to programs, and is developing its own shows. The
selection moves Hulu closer to being a media company than a tech
player, said  Laura Martin , an analyst at Needham & Co.  “The money is in distribution fees from the cable,
satellite and telecom industries,” Martin said in an interview.
“Mike Hopkins shifts Hulu’s center of gravity away from Silicon
Valley and toward Hollywood.”  Meredith Kendall, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
declined to comment.  Disney and New York-based Fox, the controlling investors,
dropped plans to sell the TV service in July and agreed to
bolster its technology, buy and develop programming, and build
up marketing. The companies, along with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBCUniversal, a co-owner barred from an active role in managing
Hulu, provided $750 million.  Distribution Role  That followed an aborted auction in which Hulu attracted
takeover bids from pay-TV suitors including DirecTV, Time Warner
Cable Inc., and  Peter Chernin  with AT&T Inc., people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Hopkins, as head of distribution, oversees Fox’s growing
business of collecting programming fees from pay-TV systems and
broadcast affiliates. He was integral in obtaining distribution
for Fox Sports 1, a national network that began broadcasting in
August.  Under Hopkins, Hulu will focus on building pay-TV fees to
complement advertising and subscriber revenue,  David Bank , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York, said in an
interview. Hopkins has the experience to make Hulu an online
portal for cable and satellite providers, he said.  “Mike is one of the few guys who can build momentum for
making Hulu an authentication service for the pay-TV industry,”
Bank said. “In doing so, Hulu could become the definition of TV
online.”  Original Programming  Fox, controlled by Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , climbed 1.1
percent to $33.23 at the New York close. The Class A shares have
risen 48 percent this year. Disney, based in Burbank,
California, advanced 1 percent to $66.21 and is up 33 percent
this year. Comcast, based in Philadelphia, rose 1.6 percent to
$46.06. Its 2013 gain is 23 percent.  Forssell, who replaced founding CEO  Jason Kilar  in March,
was the company’s senior vice president of content, helping Hulu
grow from a startup in 2007 to about $700 million in revenue in
2012, according to a March statement on the company’s website.  Hulu is releasing 20 exclusive and original series this
year and plans to boost that to 40 within two years, Forssell
said in July. When possible, the service will provide all
episodes of a show at once on Hulu Plus, the $8 a month service
that has more than 4 million subscribers.  The company, which also attracts 30 million unique visitors
a month to its free, advertiser-supported product, is taking a
page from its larger competitor,  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , which releases
whole seasons of new programs at once, letting viewers plow
through all episodes quickly.  In order to fund original programming, Hulu needs
additional revenue, Martin said.  “It raises the question of whether advertising-driven
streaming services will ever be successful without the support
of subscription revenue,” Martin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  