-- Hungary Yields Hit Record Low as Rate Cut Looms: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-10-11T12:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/hungary-yields-hit-record-low-as-rate-cut-looms-budapest-mover.html
Hungary’s three-year bond yields
fell to a record low on speculation below-target  inflation  will
allow the central bank to cut its benchmark rate further before
borrowing costs rebound next year.  The yields dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point to 4.46 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg began
compiling the data, by 1:29 p.m. in Budapest. The forint was
little changed at 294.5 per euro.  Consumer prices  increased 1.4
percent in September from a year earlier after a 1.3 percent
gain in August, the statistics office in Budapest said today.
The Magyar Nemzeti Bank targets inflation at 3 percent.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is planning further cuts in
utility tariffs in November after a 10 percent reduction in
January. That and lower fuel prices may push inflation below 1
percent, allowing the central bank to extend the 14 months of
cuts that took the benchmark rate to a record-low 3.6 percent,
according to Istvan Horvath, a director at K&H Alapkezelo, the
Budapest-based fund management unit of  KBC Groep NV. (KBC)   “There is still room for one or two rate cuts, though
we’re undoubtedly getting closer to the end of the easing
cycle,” Horvath, who helps oversee $3.8 billion at K&H, said in
e-mailed comments. “It’s worth taking profit on short-term
bonds now.”  Inflation trends warrant a “loose” policy, Csaba
Kandracs, who was appointed to the Monetary Council last month,
said, according to an interview in newspaper Magyar Nemzet
yesterday. Central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy’s forecast
that the  base rate  will fall to between 3 and 3.5 percent should
be regarded as “forward guidance” and “not set in stone,”
Kandracs said.  Policy makers may cut the main rate by 60 basis points this
year and start tightening policy in the second half of 2014,
Abbas Ameli-Renani, a London-based analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday. ING
Groep NV also expects rate increases to start in the second half
of 2014, Budapest-based analyst Andras Balatoni told reporters
on Oct. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  