-- Hungarian Inflation Unexpectedly Accelerates on Tobacco, Banks
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-10-11T08:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/hungarian-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerates-on-tobacco-banks.html
Hungarian inflation unexpectedly
accelerated last month, driven by a jump in the cost of tobacco
products and financial services.  Consumer prices  increased 1.4 percent from Sept. 2012 after
a 1.3 percent gain in August, the statistics office in Budapest
said today. The median estimate of 19 economists polled by
Bloomberg was 1.2 percent. Prices rose 0.5 percent in a month.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  cut utility prices, which
helped keep the inflation rate below the central bank’s 3
percent target since February, and is preparing another round of
reductions. Monetary-policy makers lowered borrowing costs for a
14th month in September, bringing the benchmark to a record-low
3.6 percent.  “There is no trend reversal in inflation and the index
will go lower,”  Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based economist at
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , said by phone. “This
shouldn’t impact monetary policy.”  The forint was little changed at 294.86 per euro at 9:30
a.m. in Budapest. It has appreciated 1.7 percent in the past
month, the second-best performance among 31 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut its  benchmark rate  0.2
percentage point last month and said borrowing costs may decline
further, citing the outlook for inflation, economic growth and
the country’s risk perception, according to the minutes of the
September meeting published Oct. 9.  “Subdued” inflation allows for loose monetary conditions
in the medium-term and the benchmark rate may fall close to 3
percent, central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said Sept. 28.  Cigarettes, Banks  Tobacco prices jumped 6.7 percent from the previous month,
boosting the headline inflation rate by 0.3 percentage points
while a 13.7 percent monthly surge in the cost of financial
services drove inflation a further 0.1 percent, statistician
Borbala Minary said today.  Household energy prices dropped 8.1 percent in September
from the same month last year. Orban’s ruling Fidesz party plans
to cut regulated household natural-gas, district-heating and
electricity prices by 11.1 percent from Nov. 1 after a 10
percent reduction this year.  The core inflation rate, which strips out volatile items
such as energy costs, rose to 3.5 percent from 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  