-- Munro’s Nobel Is a Welcome Sign of Sanity From Stockholm
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/munro-s-nobel-is-a-welcome-sign-of-sanity-from-stockholm.html
Alice Munro’s popularity makes her a
surprising choice as winner of this year’s  Nobel Prize in
Literature , given the Swedish Academy’s tradition of rewarding
outdated, outclassed blusterers.  Yet despite Munro’s preference for small-town settings,
there is nothing safe about her work by any standards. Who else
could have come up with a book title as mordantly charged as
“ Too Much Happiness ”?  Peer beyond the steely simplicity of her prose and you’ll
find a slyly postmodern fascination with how we go about
narrating our lives.  In Munro’s world, the details her characters choose to omit
or else forget come to define their relationships. Chronology
can feel disorientatingly slippery and backstories are often
fraught with seething grudges and erotic secrets.  As she laid it out in the introduction to her “ Selected
Stories :” “A story is not like a road to follow ... it’s more
like a house. You go inside and stay there for a while,
wandering back and forth and settling where you like and
discovering how the room and corridors relate to each other, how
the world outside is altered by being viewed from these
windows.”  Pans Simmering  Her own story had a decidedly old-fashioned beginning. She
started to write as a 1950s wife and mother, working in snatched
hours while her babies slept and pans simmered. No wonder it
took her almost two decades to amass the stories that formed her
first collection.  Published in 1968, “ Dance of the Happy Shades ” won
 Canada ’s Governor General’s Award. Three years later, she
followed it with “ Lives of Girls and Women ,” a fictionalized
portrait of her childhood.  In it, she writes of other people’s existences as being
“dull, simple, amazing and unfathomable -- deep caves paved
with kitchen linoleum.”  The autobiographical flavor lingers, especially in her more
recent work. “The View From Castle Rock” was explicitly
inspired by family history, and revealed her to be a descendent
of James Hogg, the Scottish author of “The Private Memoirs and
Confessions of a Justified Sinner,” a novel published in 1824.  Her latest and, she’s said, last collection, bears another
loaded title: “ Dear Life .” In stories in which disappearances,
confounding coincidences and ruinous indiscretions are threaded
together by a frank acknowledgement of memory’s shifting nature,
life is shown to be a treasure both costly and precious.  Like Chekhov  Munro has been likened to Chekhov so often the comparison
can sound tinny. Yet to call her the master of the contemporary
short story almost undersells an author whose oeuvre transcends
its form in so many respects. She is, quite simply, a brilliant
writer.  It’s unfortunate, though, that the politics of this most
perverse literary prize mean her victory effectively shuts out
another Canadian woman writer, one whose vision for literature’s
future is irresistibly bold.  I mean, of course, Margaret Atwood. And in a twist that
might have come from one of Munro’s own stories, Atwood also
happens to be a big fan.  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include a  Lewis Lapham  podcast and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 