-- Vale Said to Wait for Court Before Tax Dispute Decision
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-10-11T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/vale-said-to-wait-for-court-before-tax-dispute-decision.html
Vale SA, the Brazilian iron ore
miner fighting a $14 billion tax claim on its foreign units,
will wait for a court ruling before deciding on a settlement
offer, said a person with direct knowledge of the case.  The government offered to allow Vale to pay the tax in
installments over 15 years, five years more than a previous
option, the person said, asking not to be named because the
talks are private. Vale is expecting that an Oct. 22  ruling  by
the Superior Court of Justice will uphold the company’s view
that profits from foreign units can’t be taxed in  Brazil  if they
already pay abroad, said the person.  Brazil’s biggest exporters including Vale and brewer  Cia.
de Bebidas das Americas  are fighting a total of 75 billion reais
($34.4 billion) in tax claims on the profits of foreign
subsidiaries, the country’s tax agency said yesterday. The
companies were offered a chance to settle last month when
Congress passed legislation that scraps fines, interest and
legal costs if firms pay the claims in one tranche or discounts
if they opt to pay in installments.  The South American country is asking Vale, the world’s
third-largest  mining company , to pay 30.5 billion reais in taxes
for 1996 to 2008, the company said April 2 in a U.S. regulatory
filing. The Rio de Janeiro-based company expects Brazil to file
additional claims for the years after 2008.  Vale shares  rose  for the first time in four days in  Sao
Paulo  yesterday, gaining 0.3 percent to 30.56 reais at the
close. The stock declined 25 percent this year, almost doubling
the 13 percent drop in the Brazilian benchmark Ibovespa  index .  No Decision  Vale’s potential liability, which may reach 47 billion
reais including interest and penalties, has hurt its stock
price, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by  Marcelo Aguiar 
said.  “We expect Vale’s near term stock performance will
decouple from its operating performance,” the analysts said in
a note to clients yesterday. “Although settlement of this issue
would remove an overhang, in our view it could be viewed
negatively.”  Vale has until Nov. 29 to make a decision and inform the
government, the company’s press office said yesterday. Brazil’s
 Finance Ministry  declined to comment in an e-mailed response.  Vale may decide to cancel the legal fight and agree with
the government’s proposal to settle out of court by adhering to
the installment payment program, newspaper  Valor Economico  said
Oct. 9, citing sources it didn’t name.  The case number is REsp 1325709.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  