-- Verlander Shuts Down Athletics Again as Detroit Wins MLB Series
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-10-11T04:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/verlander-shuts-down-athletics-again-as-detroit-wins-mlb-series.html
Justin Verlander pitched  Detroit  to
victory in a decisive Game 5 in Oakland for the second
consecutive year, sending the Tigers to Boston for a showdown
with the Red Sox in the American League Championship Series.  Verlander allowed two hits in eight scoreless innings and
Miguel Cabrera hit a two-run homer as the Tigers reached their
third consecutive ALCS with a 3-0 win last night at the
Athletics. They won the division series three games to two.  Verlander, 30, has now thrown 30 consecutive scoreless
postseason innings against Oakland, the longest such streak for
a starting pitcher against a single club in Major League
Baseball history. The record of 28 innings had been held by the
New York Giants’ Christy Mathewson in 1905 and 1911 against the
Philadelphia Athletics.  “Justin rises to the occasion, he was locked in tonight,”
Tigers manager Jim Leyland said. “He did it for us here last
year, and he did it again tonight.”  The Tigers-Red Sox best-of-seven ALCS starts tomorrow at
 Boston , which eliminated the Tampa Bay Rays in four games in the
division round. The National League Championship Series begins
tonight with the St. Louis Cardinals hosting the Los Angeles
Dodgers.  Tough Team  “I don’t know how it happens, but we’ve been able to
celebrate a few times in this ballpark,” Leyland said in a news
conference. “This Oakland team is a very tough team. Now we’re
going to play a tough, tough more veteran team.”  Verlander, who threw a four-hit shutout with 11 strikeouts
in a Game 5 division win at Oakland last year, was almost as
good this time. He only allowed three hitters to reach base and
struck out 10 before Joaquin Benoit took over in the ninth,
getting three outs for the save.  “It’s something that you dream about as a kid,” Verlander
told reporters. “It’s a win-or-go-home, you visualize that when
you’re 10 years old in your backyard.”  The A’s didn’t have a baserunner until Josh Reddick walked
with one out in the sixth inning. Their first hit came in the
seventh on a two-out single by Yoenis Cespedes, and Reddick
singled with two outs in the eighth.  Verlander’s Fastball  A’s manager Bob Melvin said his hitters struggled with
Verlander’s fastball throughout the game, which started in late-afternoon shadows at 5:08 p.m.  “I thought maybe when it started to get darker we would
get better swings,” Melvin said. “Our fans were just waiting
for a reason to get into a frenzy -- two balls in a row and you
could hear them plenty.”  After Verlander and A’s starter Sonny Gray each went
through the lineup once without allowing a hit, the Tigers got
four hits and two runs in the fourth on Cabrera’s home run.  Detroit added a run in the sixth on a run-scoring groundout
by Omar Infante.  The A’s have now lost their last six winner-takes-all
games, including last year’s Game 5 against the Tigers. The last
time they won such a game was in the 1973 World Series against
the  New York  Mets.  Oakland, whose batters struck out 57 times in the five
games to set a division-series record, has lost nine of its last
10 postseason series.  “Our guys are frustrated with the way the game went and
some of the at-bats,” said Melvin, whose team won the AL West
division title for the second straight season. “We expected to
go a little further than this, this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  