-- Vikings Running Back Peterson Rejoins NFL Team After Son’s Death
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-10-12T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/vikings-running-back-peterson-rejoins-team-after-family-tragedy.html
Minnesota Vikings  running back
Adrian Peterson said he will play tomorrow after leaving the
team for one day to address an undisclosed personal matter.  The St. Paul Pioneer Press reported that Peterson’s 2-year-old son died in a  South Dakota  hospital after suffering head
injuries while in the care of a man who has been arrested.  “I really appreciate all the support from all the fans and
the Vikings organization,” Peterson told reporters after
returning to practice yesterday. “This is a private matter and
I’d ask you all to please respect my privacy.”  While the running back would not provide any details, his
father, Nelson Peterson,  told the Pioneer Press  that the child
was  Adrian Peterson ’s son.  “All I can say is, we are asking for prayers and for
respect for our family as we deal with this tragic situation,”
Nelson Peterson told the newspaper.  The child was unresponsive and rushed Oct. 9 to a hospital,
the Sioux Falls, South Dakota, Police Department said on its
website. The Pioneer Press reported yesterday that the child
died at the hospital, according to the police.  “While at the hospital, and during treatment, it was
learned the child had sustained bodily injuries not considered
to be accidental and consistent with abuse,” the police said.
“The male caregiver is the boyfriend of the child’s mother.”  Joseph Robert Patterson, 27, was  charged  with aggravated
battery of an infant and aggravated assault, both felonies,
according to a  Sioux Falls  police statement. A voice mail
message left at the office of Thomas Wollman, Lincoln County
state’s attorney, seeking information about whether Patterson
had an attorney, wasn’t immediately returned.  Game Focus  Peterson said he will be able to focus on tomorrow’s home
game against the  Carolina Panthers .  “Football is always something I fall back on,” he said.
“It gets me through tough times and just being around the guys
in here, that’s what I need, the guys’ support and being able to
go out and play the game I love.”  Peterson, 28, last season was selected as an All-Pro for
the third time after rushing for 2,097 yards, the second most in
a National Football League campaign. He has 421 yards this
season on 92 carries, including an NFL-high five scoring runs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  