-- Vulnerable Republicans Brace for Hard Post-Shutdown Races
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-10-11T04:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/vulnerable-republicans-brace-for-hard-post-shutdown-races.html
Nobody in the U.S. House Republican
majority is hitting the panic button -- yet.  As Republicans’ approval ratings plummet and the share of
voters blaming them for the partial government shutdown rises,
their concern is growing that the deadlock may threaten the size
of their House majority, particularly if it escalates into a
debt ceiling default.  “I worry about our majority, I worry about our capacity to
pick up the Senate,” Representative Steve Womack, an Arkansas
Republican, said in an interview. “The Senate in ’14 and
protecting our House in ’14 are political objectives that we
need to keep in mind while at the same time we fight over the
policy issues that are critical for our country.”  Midterm congressional elections are more than a year away
and Republicans start with a commanding position in defending
the House -- a likely 17-seat advantage that has looked
insurmountable for Democrats even in the most favorable of
environments. Yet the shutdown fallout has lawmakers,
strategists and nonpartisan analysts eying a weaker-than-expected showing for Republicans.  The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan, Washington-based
group that analyzes congressional races, was projecting before
the budget impasse that Republicans would gain between 2 and 7
seats next year, said House Editor David Wasserman. Now it’s
estimating a “minimal net change,” of which either party may
be the beneficiary, he said.  ‘Unpredictable Situation’  “This is an unpredictable situation and if the shutdown
drags on into 2014, things could change, but I’m skeptical that
Democrats can sustain this level of independent anger at
Republicans for well over another year,” Wasserman said.  Republicans currently control House with 232 seats to 200
for the Democrats. After special elections to fill three
vacancies, the breakdown is expected to be 234-201.  For now, the ire targeted at Republicans is at a rapid
boil, according to public opinion surveys. In a Gallup poll
conducted Oct. 3-6, the  Republican Party ’s favorability was at a
 record low  of 28 percent, down 10 percentage points from the
previous month and 15 points below Democrats. That’s the largest
gap since the Republican-led Congress impeached then-President
 Bill Clinton  in 1998, when the party lost seats in Congress for
the second consecutive election.  A NBC News/Wall Street Journal  poll  released last night
showed 53 percent blamed Republicans more for the shutdown,
compared with 31 percent faulting President  Barack Obama . Also
in the Oct. 7-9 survey, 47 percent said they preferred the 2014
elections result in a Democratic-controlled Congress, compared
with 39 percent favoring the Republicans.  ‘A Problem’  “With the pending debt limit increase, I think
Republicans increase their chances of this having an effect next
November if we are blamed for not just shutting down the
government but also causing a default,” said Brock McCleary,
the president of Harper Polling who oversaw the Republican House
campaign committee’s public opinion research in the last two
elections.  “In many voters’ minds, it could vindicate the Democratic
talking point that the Republicans are willing to light the
place on fire with everyone inside because they don’t like the
wallpaper, and from a voter perception standpoint, that’s a
problem,” McCleary said.  Boehner Offer  That may be part of what drove the new proposal from House
Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , for a six-week raise
in the debt ceiling to postpone the threat of a default on Oct.
17 while providing time for bipartisan negotiations on re-opening the government and enacting longer-term spending curbs.
Boehner and other House Republican leaders met with Obama at the
White House yesterday to discuss that offer, and each side said
talks would continue.  A way out of the current crisis can’t come soon enough for
Representative Mike Coffman, a Colorado Republican who faces re-election in a politically competitive suburban Denver district
that Obama won last year.  Since the shutdown began, Coffman has worked to distance
himself from his fellow Republicans in Congress, advocating that
the party stop trying to condition continued government funding
on defunding or scaling back the 2010 health-care law, and
instead pass a spending measure clean of extraneous demands.  “I think I’ve separated myself by virtue of saying that I
think we ought to have a clean continuing resolution and end the
shutdown, so people know where I stand,” Coffman said in an
interview. “I’ve certainly told them that I think we ought to
end the shutdown, and that I thought that using” a government
funding measure “to try to accomplish other things was a very
bad move.”  Illinois District  Republican Representative Rodney Davis, whose Illinois
district voted for his party’s presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney , in 2012 by a narrow margin -- 48.9 percent to Obama’s
48.6 percent -- said he also has been feeling political heat,
and has repeatedly told House leaders he stands to lose from it.  “I’ve got now hundreds of thousands of dollars being
spent” by groups using the shutdown to attack him in ads, he
said in an interview. “So, if you ever want to know what
message the Democrats are wanting to test, come to my district.
I’m like the guinea pig.”  “I obviously have said the entire time we’ve been in this:
the shutdown is not good for me,” Davis said. “The shutdown’s
not good for America.”  Americans United for Change, a group that targeted 10
vulnerable Republicans this week for negative  commercials , calls
it “Rodney Davis’ Tea Party shutdown” in its ad in his
district.  Baby Images  The first-termer also is spotlighted in a television
 commercial  by a Democratic super-political action committee
faulting him for the shutdown, featuring his picture juxtaposed
with that of a crying baby wearing nothing but a diaper.  “Rodney Davis and Tea Party Republicans recklessly shut
down the government, threatening our economy, throwing a tantrum
just to score political points,” a narrator says in the 30-second House Majority PAC spot.  The imagery is reminiscent of an iconic 1995  New York  Daily
News “CRY BABY” cover that portrayed former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , a Georgia Republican, as a bottle-toting, diaper-clad
infant in mid-tantrum during that year’s partial government
shutdown.  Democrats Targeted  Democrats won’t be untouched by the dysfunction,
strategists in both parties say. In recent days, House
Republicans have passed measures that would fund popular
programs including veterans’ services and the  National
Institutes of Health . The Senate, which Democrats control by
five seats, never took them up, saying all of government should
open. Republican groups have run attack ads against House
Democrats who opposed the measures.  “Vulnerable Democrats are going to have to explain next
year why they voted against veterans’ pay, against funding for
low-income families and against funding for  cancer research ,”
said Andrea Bozek, a spokeswoman for the  National Republican
Congressional Committee .  During the last shutdown, the confrontation persisted into
the 1996 election year, in which Republicans lost two House
seats while keeping their majority in the chamber.  Whether next year’s balloting will repeat that dynamic
depends largely on how the deadlock is resolved, said Republican
Representative Tom Cole of  Oklahoma , the former chairman of his
party’s House campaign committee.  For Republicans, if the struggle ultimately leads to a
broader budget deal that pares the deficit, Cole said, “it can
be a very good thing, but if it’s mishandled and we defaulted
and kept the government shut down much longer, then I think it’s
got the potential of being a very bad thing.”  Damaged Reputation  Democratic pollster Stan Greenberg, who earlier this year
began a study of his partisan adversaries, said Republicans have
already inflicted what may be irreparable damage on their
reputation. Named Democratic candidates had a 4-point advantage
over Republicans when likely voters were asked who they plan to
vote for in his latest Democracy Corps survey, he said, a 5-point shift from July, when Democrats were 1 point behind.  “What’s happened with the shutdown is that the  House
Republicans  have made themselves the center of the story, and
the intensity we are seeing as a result is in the hostility to
the  Republican Congress ,” Greenberg said in an interview. “For
the first time, I think they’ve created the possibility of
significant changes in the House.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  