-- Wells Fargo Posts Profit Gain as Stumpf Leans on Reserves
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-11T23:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/wells-fargo-posts-record-third-quarter-profit-on-reserve-release.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, sought to assure investors its other businesses can
make up for flagging mortgage sales after posting a 13 percent
gain in profit that partly relied on tapping loan-loss reserves.  Net income advanced in the third quarter to a record $5.58
billion, or 99 cents a share, from $4.94 billion, or 88 cents, a
year earlier, the San Francisco-based company said today in a
statement. The bank reclaimed $900 million from loan-loss
reserves while mortgage banking revenue plunged 43 percent.  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 60, added to the
bank’s three-year string of record profits, outlasting its
biggest rival as JPMorgan Chase & Co. posted a $380 million
loss. Stumpf also told investors he’ll seek approval to raise
the dividend. Still, the bank predicted home lending will slide
again in the fourth quarter, prompting analysts to ask whether
the company can fill the void and produce profit gains.  “How do you mind the gap?” Mike Mayo, an analyst at CLSA
Ltd., said on the conference call. “It seems like the answer
this quarter was partly reserve releases, which equaled over
one-tenth of your earnings for the quarter.”  Diverse Units  Wells Fargo has cited the diversity and sheer number of
about  90 different businesses  it runs as evidence it can
overcome underperformance at any one unit. While Stumpf has
stopped short of pointing analysts to specific operations,
today’s statement showed credit cards, personal credit
management and retail sales finance recorded double-digit
revenue growth from a year earlier.  “I know there was a little frustration because everybody
wants one business to point to,” Chief Financial Officer
Timothy Sloan said in a phone interview. “I wouldn’t think of
Wells Fargo as a mortgage company, I would think about it as a
diversified financial institution,” he said. “Because of that
diversification, we don’t have to say, ‘Oh, mortgage is down, so
credit-card, you have to pick up the slack.’ Everybody’s going
to pick up the slack.”  Wells Fargo shares were little changed at $41.43 in  New
York  as the 24-company KBW Bank Index rose 0.4 percent. The
lender’s  stock climbed  21 percent this year through yesterday,
trailing the 23 percent gain for the KBW benchmark.  Cost Target  The bank reported declines in revenue, lending margins and
the backlog of new  mortgage loans . The efficiency ratio, which
measures costs as a percentage of revenue, rose to 59.1 percent,
missing the firm’s target of 55 percent to 59 percent.
Noninterest expenses were little changed at $12.1 billion.  Revenue fell 3 percent to $20.5 billion. Profit before
taxes and loss provisions, which some analysts use to gauge the
bank’s  core performance , declined 8 percent to $8.38 billion.
Net interest margin, the difference between what a bank makes on
lending and what it pays for funding, fell to 3.38 percent, a
0.08 percentage point drop from the second quarter.  Sloan said expenses will fall back to within the bank’s
target range in the fourth quarter, and Stumpf said a higher
dividend and share buybacks will be included when the bank
submits its new  capital plan  to federal regulators. He’s raised
the dividend twice this year.  Wells Fargo made $1.61 billion from mortgage banking, 43
percent less than a year earlier. The mortgage business run by
 Mike Heid  originated $80 billion in new home loans during the
quarter. Pending mortgages plunged to $35 billion from $63
billion in the second quarter.  Mortgage Loans  Sloan, 53, told analysts last month that mortgage
originations and profit margins on selling home loans would fall
in the third quarter. Borrowers were discouraged as  interest
rates  rose amid speculation that the  Federal Reserve  would pare
its efforts to stimulate the economy with low rates.  Wells Fargo, which has been expanding a securities unit
under John Shrewsberry after acquiring it in the purchase of
Wachovia Corp., took in $397 million in investment-banking fees,
a 33 percent increase from a year earlier. Trading revenue fell
25 percent over the year ago to $397 million.  The community banking division, which includes the retail-bank unit led by Carrie Tolstedt and consumer-lending business
headed by Avid Modjtabai, booked $3.34 billion in net income, a
22 percent increase over the year earlier. Profit in the wealth
unit run by  David Carroll  rose 33 percent to $450 million, while
net income in the wholesale banking unit run by David Hoyt fell
1 percent to $1.97 billion.  Refinancing Wanes  Ten-year Treasury yields, which are used to set rates for
some consumer loans including mortgages, rose from this year’s
low of 1.63 percent on May 2 to 3 percent on Sept. 5. Mortgage
refinancing applications, which accounted for 82 percent of all
requests for home loans last year, made up 63 percent in the
third quarter, according to  data  compiled by the  Mortgage
Bankers Association .  The company said in July 2011 it would take out $1.5
billion in quarterly costs, then backtracked a year later to
pursue higher mortgage revenue. The bank has since renewed the
effort as home borrowing waned, announcing at least two rounds
of job cuts totaling more than 4,800 workers. Another 500 cuts
were also announced, according to a  presentation  today.  Wells Fargo  employed  about 274,000 people at midyear, the
largest workforce among domestic lenders.  U.S. banks are still facing fallout from bad loans made
before the housing crash. Wells Fargo announced Sept. 30 it had
agreed to an $869 million settlement with  Freddie Mac  to resolve
disputes over loans sold to the government-backed firm before
Jan. 1, 2009. Within days, the bank was sued by New York state
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman over claims the lender didn’t
uphold terms of a $25 billion mortgage-servicing settlement in
February 2012.  Analysts’ View  Out of 42 analysts who cover the stock, 19 gave the
equivalent of a buy rating through Oct. 10, according to  data
compiled  by Bloomberg. It’s the fourth straight month the
percentage stood below 46 percent. Before that, the tally hadn’t
dropped below 48 percent since the month ending Oct. 14, 2009,
when the equivalent of two out of five analysts recommended
buying the stock.  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are set to release results next week.  Most of the largest U.S. banks are still struggling to show
increased revenue amid still-narrowing lending margins,
borrowers cutting debt levels and weak volumes in bond-trading.
The six largest U.S. lenders probably will report revenue of
$100.9 billion for the quarter, a 3.4 percent decline from a
year earlier, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg through Oct. 7.  Wells Fargo has countered the lack of growth by buying loan
portfolios from other banks and investing in securities with
higher yields. The firm agreed in August to buy commercial
property loans from ING Real Estate Finance (USA) LLC with
balances of $1.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  