-- Wheat-Price Gain Seen Possible by InVivo as China, Brazil Buy
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-11T14:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/wheat-price-gain-seen-possible-by-invivo-as-china-brazil-buy.html
Wheat prices may rise in the short-term on demand from  China  and  Brazil , as well as an outlook for
reduced planting in  Russia , said Francois Luguenot, head of
market analysis at French grain cooperative Union InVivo.  The wheat market has become increasingly uncertain in
recent months, with a delayed U.S. corn harvest creating
additional demand for the grain, Luguenot said in an interview
at the European Commodities Exchange in Paris today.  Wheat rose 3.7 percent in  Chicago  in September, the biggest
such gain in five months, and has advanced 1 percent this month.
The grain is the second-best performer on the S&P GSCI Commodity
Index in the past month, behind sugar.  “The sources of incertitude on the grain market,
particularly wheat, have multiplied,” Luguenot said.  Luguenot cited speculation about how much wheat China will
import, which he said could be 6 million to 10 million metric
tons, as well as buying by Iran and Brazil.  Morocco ’s wheat
harvest was “less gigantic” than first expected, Luguenot
said.  Additional questions surround the size of the wheat harvest
in the Southern Hemisphere,  Egypt ’s ability to pay for imports,
wheat availability in the  Black Sea region  due to stocks
rebuilding and Russia’s planting for the 2014 harvest.  “In Russia, you have two elements,” Luguenot said. “What
will the government do on stocks, and that could have immediate
effect on availability, and there is the risk of area losses in
wheat.”  The Black Sea region will run down supplies of wheat to
export at “some point” in the 2013-14 marketing year, which
could be as early as in the first half, the analyst said. The
U.S. exported wheat to China and Brazil in the first half, when
typically the pace of wheat shipments is strongest in the second
half, according to Luguenot.  Wheat prices may come under pressure toward the end of 2013
due to the arrival of the delayed U.S. corn crop as well as the
approaching Southern Hemisphere wheat harvest, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  