-- Who's Keeping the Chinese Away From NASA?
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-10-11T17:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/who-s-keeping-the-chinese-away-from-nasa-.html
Who in the U.S. government decided
that Chinese nationals with an interest in studying alien
planets are a national-security threat?  That’s the question at the heart of an embarrassing episode
that came to light last Friday when the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper  reported  that applications of several Chinese
researchers for an upcoming conference at the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Ames Research Center in
Mountain View,  California , were rejected.  In China, the revelations spurred lengthy  online debates 
about the history of U.S discrimination against Chinese. China’s
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, ever eager to seize the human-rights high ground from the U.S.  labeled  the ban a
“discriminative action,” and used the opportunity to expound on
its belief “that academic or scientific activities should not be
politicized.”  In the U.S. a disconcerting lack of clarity and
accountability has accompanied the incident. It’s almost
impossible -- in large part due to the partial government
shutdown that has taken  most of NASA  with it -- to find the
source and reasoning for this ban.  The Guardian story quoted incensed U.S. researchers who
suggested that  NASA  was acting in a discriminatory manner and
noted that the NASA official who rejected the applications cited
federal measures, including legislation passed in March. That
seems to refer to  an amendment  to an appropriations bill (some
form of which has been included annually in legislation  dating
back  to 2011), championed by Representative Frank Wolf of
 Virginia , the chairman of a House appropriations sub-committee
with  oversight of NASA.  That legislation restricted “bilateral”
contact between NASA and “China or any Chinese-owned company”
and “the hosting of official Chinese visitors at facilities
belonging to or utilized by NASA.”  Other press accounts  claimed
that the rejection letters received by the Chinese nationals
cited the similar language in a 2011 spending bill.  For those who disapprove of the ban -- including the
Chinese -- Wolf is a convenient culprit. He’s among Congress’s
 most rabid critics  of  China , and he hasn’t been shy about
connecting his crusades on behalf of Chinese human rights, and
against the Communist Party, to the U.S.’s space program. For
example, in a  rambling Tuesday letter  to Charles Bolden, NASA’s
administrator, he pointedly thanked the space agency chief for
his willingness to meet with Chinese rights activists in Wolf’s
office earlier this year. No doubt, it was a worthy exercise,
though unlikely one that helped Bolden plan NASA’s next Mars
probe.  Still, in his Tuesday letter Wolf was adamant that no
legislation passed by him would restrict students from attending
NASA-sponsored conferences or other “multilateral” gatherings
that include Chinese nationals. Rather, he noted the NASA
official was probably thinking of action taken by Bolden, namely
“a temporary restriction on Chinese nationals that you put in
place earlier this year after serious security protocol flaws
were brought to your attention by some in Congress, including
me.”  Indeed, in late March, Bolden  announced a moratorium  on
granting new access to NASA facilities to people from China and
seven other nations. As Wolf wrote in his letter: “Any
restriction against Chinese nationals on NASA centers is
entirely an agency policy and not covered under the statutory
restriction. Furthermore, it was my understanding that NASA’s
temporary restrictions had been lifted after a review of
security protocols for foreign nationals at all NASA centers.”  On Thursday, Bolden responded to Wolf’s accusations in an
e-mail  obtained by Science . In it, he placed blame for the
rejected applications on “mid-level managers” who -- after a
period of increased security scrutiny -- “acted without
consulting NASA HQ.” Did they do so on the basis of legislation?
A (potentially expired?) moratorium? Their own volition?
According to Bolden, answers “will not be available until after
the government is reopened.”  By then, Bolden no doubt hopes the incident will have been
forgotten, along with the rejected Chinese researchers whom, he
assures Wolf, will probably be welcome to re-apply to join the
alien-planet conference. Of course that may or may not take
place at the NASA Ames facility -- or at all -- if the
government fails to re-open in time. The Chinese are likely
having the last laugh on this one: The U.S. government seems to
be chief among the alien worlds in need of study.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for Bloomberg’s
World View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 