-- Will Obama Join FDR and LBJ in Liberal Pantheon?
-- B y   A l o n z o   L .   H a m b y
-- 2013-10-11T15:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/will-obama-join-fdr-and-lbj-in-liberal-pantheon-.html
From the early 20th century to the
present day, the history of American liberalism has centered on
strong presidents ramming “progressive” legislation through
hesitant Congresses.  Theodore Roosevelt  and  Woodrow Wilson  initiated the trend
in the early 1900s and laid the foundations for today’s activist
presidency. They continue to merit study, but their emphasis on
issues such as “trust-busting,” child labor and rudimentary
agricultural subsidies seems dated to today’s liberals. The
modern age of American liberalism began with Franklin D. Roosevelt and the New Deal, then peaked with  Lyndon Johnson  and
the Great Society. The major project of liberalism -- the
establishment of a comprehensive social-democratic welfare state
-- has reached a culmination with the tumultuous start of the
Affordable Care Act under President  Barack Obama .  The nationalization of access to medical care -- first
floated by Teddy Roosevelt, given lip service by FDR, made a
cornerstone of  Harry Truman ’s Fair Deal, advocated by  John F. Kennedy  and achieved for the elderly by Johnson -- appears,
after a half-century, to have been realized on a universal basis
by an improbable president who seemingly came out of nowhere.  American liberalism, long inspired by the national medical
care systems of the U.K. and Western Europe, had been handed its
Holy Grail by an unexpected paladin, who would be ranked with
the giants of its folklore.  How does Obama compare with the two dominant liberal
Democrats who preceded him?  Past Patronage  FDR had spent seven years as a highly effective assistant
secretary of the Navy (in effect, the Navy’s chief civilian
operating officer) when he was in his 30s. He received his
party’s vice presidential nomination at the age of 38, and
served three and a half years as governor of  New York  before
being nominated for president. He was the original great
communicator of the radio age and used the medium brilliantly to
develop support and maintain what in those days passed for
intimate contact with the larger public.  Roosevelt gained legitimacy and authority from his
patrician voice and demeanor. A cooperative press rarely
mentioned his physical handicap. To all these assets, he added a
practical -- and at times unprincipled -- use of presidential
patronage to win votes. (He once won over a reluctant senator by
appointing as a U.S. marshal a man who had been convicted of
homicide.)  His New Deal defined the goals and character of American
liberalism -- the use of government to stabilize the economy and
promote growth, to provide economic benefits and security for
ordinary Americans, to make an alliance with organized labor, to
advocate fairness for racial and ethnic minorities, and take an
adversarial stance toward corporate business and finance. He
always had a few visible Republicans (or former Republicans) in
his administration.  Johnson, a child of the New Deal, was heir to Roosevelt’s
legacy. Unlike FDR, he had no formal executive experience, but
his years as Senate majority leader had left him superbly
attuned to the nature of Congress and ways of persuading
legislators to do his bidding. He moved what seemed to be a
hopelessly stalled  civil rights bill  and other legislation by a
combination of persuasion, genteel bribery and shrewd dealing
with both his own partisans and the Republican minority.  To say that he engaged in a dialogue with Republican Senate
leader Everett Dirksen is to understate the complex and, on the
whole, cordial relationship they developed. His Great Society
brought American liberalism to a new level of glory, but also
exposed its flaws.  Obama’s strengths are primarily electoral rather than
legislative. He brings to the office an impressive personality
and strong oratorical powers, but seems to have little interest
in negotiation.  Aloofness Indulged  During his first two years in office, he possessed the
momentum of a national electoral victory, Democratic control of
both houses of Congress and a Capitol Hill leadership that
shared his dedication to a national health program. But the
 Affordable Care Act  barely got through Congress, establishing
the basis for what has become a bitter partisan division.  Given the way in which the  House Republicans  have allowed
themselves to be pulled along by a dogmatic minority, the
president is free to indulge his aloofness and will probably
prevail when the government shutdown becomes intolerable. But
just as the Republicans will learn that they can’t set the
agenda for the country with only control of the  House of
Representatives , the president, as much a lame duck as a
triumphant victor, is likely sooner or later to absorb the
lesson that his own effectiveness will be increasingly limited
without a channel to an opposition that has every incentive to
oppose him.  (Alonzo L. Hamby is distinguished professor of history
emeritus at Ohio University and in the final stages of preparing
a biography of  Franklin D. Roosevelt .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Alonzo L. Hamby at  hambya@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 