-- Won Gains for Second Day on U.S. Debt Talks Optimism; Bonds Rise
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-11T06:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/won-nears-8-month-high-on-u-s-debt-talks-optimism-bonds-rise.html
South  Korea ’s won rose for a second
day, trading near an eight-month high, on signs of progress in
talks to avoid a U.S. debt default, and as overseas investors
pumped money into local equities.  Government bonds  rose.  President  Barack Obama  told Republicans at a White House
meeting yesterday that he wants to raise the debt limit and end
the partial government shutdown, now in its 10th day, said
Representative Hal Rogers of  Kentucky . Obama didn’t accept or
reject a Republican plan as the two sides pledged to keep
talking last night. South Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok
said prolonged budget negotiations would hurt the U.S. and
global financial systems.  “Speculation is increasing the budget talks will reach a
deal, which may lift sentiment,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency
analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “Foreign inflows in
local stocks are a strong support for the won.”  The won climbed 0.2 percent to 1,071.4 per dollar in  Seoul ,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It
earlier strengthened to 1,068.82, near the eight-month high of
1,067.07 reached Oct. 7. It fell 0.1 percent for the week.  “The main reason behind the won’s fall this week was due
to the concern that authorities may intervene in the market as
the won hovers near 1,070 against the dollar,” Jeon said.  The currency’s  exchange rate  is determined by the market,
and that’s desirable if there is no volatility, Finance Minister
Hyun said in an interview in  Washington  yesterday. Foreigners
were net purchasers of Korean stocks for a record 31st day,
pumping more than $10 billion into the securities since the
buying streak began on Aug. 23, exchange data show.  Record Surplus  South Korea’s current-account surplus is forecast to be a
record $63 billion this year, more than a July estimate of $53
billion, according to a statement from  Bank of Korea  yesterday.  Bank of America is staying long on the won versus the dollar
as the Korean currency remains underpinned by “very strong”
current-account dynamics, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch research note released yesterday by Albert Leung, a
strategist in Hong Kong.  The won’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
34 basis points, or 0.34 percentage point, today and 32 basis
points for the week to 6.84 percent.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign notes due
June 2016 fell one basis point today to 2.86 percent, according
to Korea Exchange Inc. prices. The rate rose three basis points
this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  