-- X5 Retail Confident of Turnaround After Sales Miss Estimates
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-10-11T09:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-11/x5-retail-seeks-to-reassure-investors-as-gap-with-magnit-widens.html
X5 Retail Group (FIVE)  said it’s confident
of a turnaround after third-quarter revenue fell short of
analyst estimates, widening the sales gap between the Russian
grocery chain and billionaire Sergey Galitskiy’s  OAO Magnit. (MGNT)   “We are confident in a possibility for a turnaround,”
Chief Executive Officer Stephan Ducharme said at an investor
presentation today. The retailer plans to refurbish its
Pyaterochka discounters to attract customers and develop fresh
categories in Perekrestok supermarkets, he said.  Third-quarter revenue rose 6.6 percent to 124 billion
rubles ($3.9 billion), missing VTB Capital’s estimate for 7.5
percent growth. Excluding new openings, sales declined 1.7
percent in the third quarter, propelled by a 6.2 percent fall in
customer numbers, the Moscow-based company said today.  The company’s trading update “brought yet another
disappointment,” Mikhail Terentiev, an analyst at Otkritie
Capital, said in a note to clients today. The company posted the
lowest sales growth in six quarters, he wrote.  Billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s X5 has lost half its market
value since mid-2011 as customer numbers dwindled following the
$1.6 billion acquisition of the Kopeyka discount chain. The
company’s revenue rose 8 percent last year, trailing the 34
percent sales growth at Magnit. X5 formed a new management team
led by ex-board member Ducharme earlier this year to address its
underperformance.  ‘Admitting Problems’  “Today’s presentation was the first time in several years
when I’ve heard X5 management admitting the company’s problems
and coming up with a concrete plan to solve them,” Ivan Kushch,
an analyst at VTB Capital, said by phone. “Still, it may take
12 to 18 months to implement a transformation.”  X5 fell as much as 5 percent, the most on an intraday basis
since July 5. The stock was down 3 percent at $17.02 at 10:43
a.m. in  London , where the company has its main listing.  Magnit overtook X5 as  Russia ’s largest retailer earlier
this year. The Krasnodar, south Russia-based company plans to
expand in Moscow and  St. Petersburg , traditionally X5
strongholds. Magnit has a market value exceeding $30 billion,
while X5 is worth $4.6 billion.  X5 has twice delayed today’s investor day as it grapples
with its strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  