-- Abbott Talks in Indonesia Fall Short on Asylum-Seeker Specifics
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-09-30T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/abbott-tests-indonesia-ties-as-asylum-boats-dominate-first-visit.html
Tony Abbott  held “frank” talks with
his  Indonesia  counterpart on his first overseas trip as prime
minister, even as he failed to secure agreement on how best to
halt the flow of asylum-seeker boats to  Australia .  “We had a very frank discussion on the issue of
sovereignty and the issue of people smuggling,” Abbott said  in
a joint briefing with Indonesia President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in Jakarta last night. “We are resolved and united to
tackle this issue.”  Abbott, 55, whose election vow to “stop the boats” was
met with criticism in Jakarta, reassured Yudhoyono during their
talks that Australia would respect Indonesia’s sovereignty,
Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa told reporters in Jakarta
yesterday. “This is a common challenge requiring a common
response,” he said.  Still, Abbott did not detail any specifics from his
discussions with Indonesia on how the two would work together to
stop the flow of asylum-seeker boats carrying people from war-torn countries such as  Afghanistan , even as one boat sank and
other boats arrived in Australian waters.  “I think Abbott was hoping SBY would agree to some new
cooperative arrangements for dealing with boat people,” said
Greg Fealy, an associate professor at Canberra’s Australian
National University, referring to Yudhoyono. “If SBY didn’t,
then that would be a blow for Abbott,” he said by e-mail.  Balancing Act  Abbott takes over as Australia steps up on the world stage,
assuming the  presidency  of the  United Nations Security Council 
and hosting next year’s Group of 20 meetings. He has signaled a
more low-key approach than his predecessors and a priority for
 Asia  ties, saying he will look toward “Jakarta, not Geneva.”  After his meetings in Jakarta, Abbott will attend summits
with leaders such as U.S. President  Barack Obama  as he promotes
his message that “Australia is once more open for business”
after the Liberal-National coalition won the Sept. 7 election.  He faces the task of balancing Australia’s interests
between main ally the U.S. -- which bases troops in the north of
the country -- and top  trading partner   China , a position
complicated by his pledge to toughen foreign-ownership rules on
agricultural land. A pressing domestic policy slate and a
hostile upper house of parliament may distract Abbott from his
offshore agenda early in his term.  “A maiden international trip for a new leader is often
icing on the honeymoon-period cake, but Abbott’s Indonesia visit
will potentially be a lot more prickly than that,” said Haydon Manning, a politics professor at Flinders University in
Adelaide. “The region he is visiting can be sensitive so he
will be keen to portray a steady, statesmanlike image.”  Stopping Boats  Abbott sought during the election campaign to woo voters
concerned that asylum-seekers were living off welfare payments
and taking employment opportunities.  While his message fared well domestically, a vow to deploy
the Navy to return boats to Indonesian waters and his suggestion
to use informants to buy and destroy fishing vessels suspected
of being involved in people-smuggling hurt ties with Jakarta,
said Hamish McDonald, a Sydney-based journalist in residence at
the  Australian National University .  The comments “hinted at taking unilateral action on
Indonesian soil regardless of their cooperation,” said
McDonald, author of the book “Suharto’s Indonesia.” “He can’t
afford to be seen threatening territorial integrity or
sovereignty,” he said.  Abbott’s trip comes after a boat bound for Australia sank
off the coast of Java with 31 people confirmed dead, Air Marshal
 Mark Binskin , Vice Chief of the Defence Force, said at a
briefing in Sydney yesterday. Three vessels arrived in the past
week and 128 people were transfered to processing centers,
Binskin said. Another boat arrived yesterday, he said, without
giving details.  Asia Trade  Abbott said Australia needed to do more to build an
economic partnership with neighbor Indonesia, especially in
agriculture. The two countries agreed to boost investment, trade
and air transport links, Yudhoyono said at their joint press
conference.  Abbott will need to convince leaders he is serious about
prioritizing relationships in Asia. He has appointed Trade
Minister Andrew Robb to make headway on  free-trade deals  with
countries such as China,  Japan ,  South Korea ,  India  and Indonesia
alongside the broader Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement.  At the same time, he’s raised eyebrows for his comments,
writing in his 2009 book “Battlelines” about what he called
the virtues of the Anglosphere. “Overwhelmingly, the modern
world is one that’s been made in English,” he said.  Such language could be misinterpreted in Asia, said Greg
Barton, a professor at Monash University’s School of Political
and Social Inquiry in  Melbourne . “Language like that can undo
some good work and intentions,” he said.  U.S. Base  Key to Abbott’s international agenda will be balancing ties
with the U.S. and China, a nation with which  two-way trade 
reached A$117.7 billion ($110 billion) last year. He will attend
next week’s Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation leaders summit in
Bali and then the East Asia Summit in  Brunei .  Australia’s alliance with America intensified under  Julia Gillard , the Labor prime minister from 2010-2013, when she
allowed the U.S. to base as many as 2,500 Marines in Darwin, a
city in the far north close to Indonesia.  That spurred criticism from China, with Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Liu Weimin  saying it “may not be appropriate.”  Abbott has said he wants foreign investment, although he
told an audience in Beijing in last year that Chinese purchases
of Australian assets were complicated by the prevalence of
state-owned enterprises. He plans to lower the threshold for
purchases of agricultural land requiring regulatory approval to
A$15 million from A$244 million currently.  ‘Middle Power’  While the previous Labor government of  Kevin Rudd  -- a
Mandarin-speaking former diplomat -- pushed for greater clout at
bodies such as the UN, Abbott has indicated a more low-key
approach. He was criticized by Rudd for downplaying Australia’s
influence when asked whether Australia should be involved in
potential military intervention in  Syria .  “I don’t think we should be getting above ourselves
here,” Abbott said in an ABC interview in early September. “We
are a significant middle power but no more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  