-- Afghan Widow on Taliban Hit List Eyes Presidency as U.S. Exits
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-09-29T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/afghan-widow-on-taliban-hit-list-eyes-presidency-as-u-s-exits.html
Fawzia Koofi remembers the first
time she spoke back to a man. She was in the fourth grade, and
had just scolded her cousin for calling her “nobody” -- a
common insult for young girls growing up in  Afghanistan .  “I had to start breaking taboos in our family,” Koofi,
who at 38 is now considering a run to become the country’s first
female leader, said in an interview. “You have to really put
your forehead in stone to face the challenges.”  That determination is now motivating her to champion
 women’s rights  in Afghanistan even after surviving two Taliban
assassination attempts. Koofi, a lawmaker since 2005, plans to
decide this week whether to run in an  April election  that will
test the extent society has changed more than a decade after the
U.S. invaded.  Afghanistan’s next leader will face a Taliban insurgency
that is becoming more deadly as President  Barack Obama  prepares
to withdraw most of the 60,000 U.S. troops stationed in one of
the world’s poorest countries. Koofi said the global community
must stay engaged to avoid a return to  Taliban rule , when women
were forced to cover themselves head-to-toe in public and denied
education, employment and adequate health care.  “That’s a worst-case scenario,” Koofi said in the Sept.
27 interview in Singapore, where she was attending a fundraising
event. “We are hoping for a best-case scenario, which will be a
political transition in 2014, having elections, having a strong
government in place and then paving the way for military
transition.”  Civilian Casualties  The U.S. and Afghanistan are working on an agreement to
allow the presence of American troops in the South Asian country
beyond 2014, U.S. Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said
Sept. 27. Failure to reach a deal would derail progress made in
the country’s security, he said.  Civilian casualties from Afghanistan’s conflict with
Taliban guerrillas jumped by almost a quarter in the first half
of this year, the  United Nations  said in July.  Presidential candidates have until Oct. 6 to register.
Among those expected to run is the runner-up in 2009, Abdullah Abdullah, a former foreign minister.  Koofi said her gender, along with a shortage of money
needed to run a competitive campaign, puts her at a
disadvantage. President  Hamid Karzai , who has ruled the country
since the Taliban’s ouster, is constitutionally banned from
standing again due to term limits.  Sunburned Baby  “She is a qualified and hardworking Afghan politician, but
our conservative and traditional culture underestimates Afghan
females,” Jawid Kohistani, a Kabul-based analyst and leader of
a political party affiliated with the opposition that has no
seats in parliament, said of Koofi. “Our people support leaders
who have a power base and weapons.”  Koofi hails from  Badakhshan  in northeastern Afghanistan, a
mountainous province bordering Tajikistan, Pakistan and  China .
From the moment she was born, Koofi has fought a culture where
men are more valued than women.  Her mother wanted a son to please her father, who had seven
wives. Upon delivery, she fell ill, and Koofi was left to die
under the hot sun until her mother recovered.  “She didn’t want another girl to suffer as much as she
suffered, so therefore she wasn’t happy when she delivered me,”
said Koofi, the 19th of her father’s 23 children. “Later on my
mother substituted all the suffering that I faced in my first
days of life. She really gave me a lot of love and she was a
role model for me.”  Single Mother  Koofi also had to fight for an education. She endured
taunts and physical abuse from her brothers as she insisted on
becoming the first girl in the family to go to school.  “When he wasn’t happy, he said no you cannot go to school
today,” Koofi said, referring to one of her brothers. “And he
would tear my bag.”  She persevered, and after the Taliban fell she became the
only female staff member of the United Nations in Kabul, Koofi
wrote in  The Favored Daughter: One Woman’s Fight to Lead
Afghanistan into the Future . Her husband died two years later of
tuberculosis he caught in a Taliban prison, leaving her to raise
two children on her own.  “To remarry would be to betray his memory,” Koofi wrote
in the 2012 autobiography. “I still feel this as strongly now
as I felt it in the weeks after he died. But politics became a
husband of a different kind.”  Koofi, who sees former Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
as an inspiration, became the first women in Afghanistan to
become second deputy house speaker. She was re-elected in 2010.  The Taliban have already tried to kill her twice, most
recently in 2010. Last week, she said her security advisers told
her the Taliban were again seeking to assassinate her.  “It’s an every day challenge -- it’s not easy,” Koofi
said. “I could come to Singapore or any other beautiful country
in the world and live freely as a human being like many other
women do. But I think my stay in Afghanistan does make a small
contribution to change the lives of other people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  