-- Marlins’ Alvarez Throws No-Hitter on Final Day of MLB Season
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/alvarez-of-marlins-pitches-no-hitter-of-last-day-of-mlb-season.html
Henderson Alvarez became the fourth
pitcher in Major League Baseball history to throw a no-hitter on
the final day of a regular season, helping the  Miami Marlins 
beat the  Detroit  Tigers 1-0.  Alvarez was waiting on deck to bat in the bottom of the
ninth inning when Giancarlo Stanton scored the game’s only run
on a wild pitch by Detroit reliever Luke Putkonen.  “I’ve never seen it where we got a walk-off win and we’re
mauling the pitcher instead of the guy who got the hit or scored
the run,” Marlins outfielder Logan Morrison said yesterday at
Marlins Park in Miami.  Alvarez, a 23-year-old right-hander from  Venezuela , struck
out four batters and walked one as he threw 99 pitches,
including 66 strikes. When he got the final out of the top of
the ninth inning in Miami he turned and pumped his fist in
celebration, briefly forgetting the game was still scoreless.  “I was so excited,” Alvarez said through an interpreter.
“I thought by the ninth inning that I just needed three outs
for the no-hitter. With my emotions and nerves, I kind of lost
track that we hadn’t scored a run yet.”  With the bases loaded and two outs in the bottom of the
ninth, Stanton raced home with the winning run as Putkonen’s
first pitch bounced away from catcher Brayan Pena. It set off a
Marlins’ celebration near home plate, where Alvarez said he was
hoping for a wild pitch.  “You need to have a little luck to throw a no-hitter,”
Marlins manager Mike Redmond said. “We definitely had that.”  Final Day  It was the first MLB season-ending no-hitter since Mike
Witt of the  Los Angeles Angels  threw a perfect game at the  Texas
Rangers  in 1984. The others were pitched by Vida Blue and three
Oakland relievers against the Angels in 1975, and by Bumpus
Jones of Cincinnati against Pittsburgh in 1892.  The third no-hitter of the 2013 season was the fifth in
Marlins’ history and the first since Anibal Sanchez achieved the
feat on Sept. 6, 2006.  The Tigers (93-69), already assured of a playoff spot as
the American League Central Division champion, rested four
starters and pulled three more from the game by the seventh
inning. Detroit begins a best-of-five series at the  Oakland
Athletics  on Oct. 4.  The Marlins finish the season with a 62-100 record for last
place in the  National League East .  Alvarez was acquired from the  Toronto Blue Jays  in November
and was on the disabled list until early July with inflammation
in his throwing shoulder. His only previous complete game was
May 4, 2012, and the no-hitter came in his 58th career start.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  