-- Amanda Knox Won’t Return to Italy as Murder Retrial Begins
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-09-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/amanda-knox-won-t-return-to-italy-as-murder-retrial-begins.html
Amanda Knox, who says she’s
“haunted” by nearly four years spent in an Italian jail, won’t
return from the U.S. for an appeals retrial for the 2007 killing
of her British roommate Meredith Kercher, which starts today in
Florence.  Seattle native Knox, now 26, was an exchange student in the
central Italian city of Perugia at the time of Kercher’s killing
in 2007. She was convicted of murder and sentenced to 26 years
in the original case, serving almost four years in prison before
the decision was overturned in October 2011. Her former Italian
boyfriend,  Raffaele Sollecito , now 29, was also sentenced to 25
years in jail in the first ruling in 2009, and found not guilty
on appeal in 2011.  On March 26, Italy’s highest court approved a prosecutor’s
request to void the appeals court verdicts and try Knox and
Sollecito again.  In an interview with daily la Repubblica published Sept.
20, Knox maintained her innocence and said she had aged 40 years
in prison. “I felt hunted like an animal,” said Knox, who’s
said she’s suffered from depression and panic attacks since her
release. “I had to understand how to survive.”  Kercher, a 21-year-old student, was found dead in her
bedroom, half-naked and strangled with her throat slashed, on
Nov. 2, 2007, in the house she shared in Perugia with Knox and
two other women. Prosecutor Giuliano Mignini said at the
original trial that Knox had masterminded a drug-fueled sex game
involving Sollecito and Rudy Guede, an Ivorian-born Italian
citizen, which turned violent, leading to the murder.  ‘Fast Track’  Guede was found guilty in a separate “fast-track” trial
in 2008 and sentenced to 30 years. His sentence was reduced to
16 years in a 2009 appeal.  The first Knox trial was the subject of intense media
interest in  Italy , the U.K. and the U.S., and the 2011 appeals
trial also saw a wave of journalists descend on Perugia, a city
of 170,000.  In an interview with NBC television this month, Knox
dismissed the suggestion that not returning to Italy could be
interpreted as an admission of guilt. “I look at it as an
admission of innocence,” she said. “I was imprisoned as an
innocent person and it’s common sense not to go back.”  Knox first told police she was inside the Perugia villa at
the time of the killing and that screaming from Kercher’s room
alerted her to the crime scene. She also initially named the
owner of a bar where she had worked as the possible killer. The
bar owner, Patrick Diya Lumumba, was arrested and later released
after a witness confirmed his alibi.  Knox’s Book  In her book “Waiting to Be Heard,” published this year by
Harper Collins, Knox says police coerced her into accusing
Lumumba and describes being caught in the gears of a
dysfunctional justice system.  Eight hearings have already been scheduled through the end
of November in the latest trial, Knox’s lawyer Luciano Ghirga
said by phone, saying the court calendar may change.  An extradition request would be possible if Knox is
convicted in the retrial and that ruling is confirmed by Italy’s
highest court, according to an Italian Justice Ministry
official, who asked not to be named, citing department policy.
Still, a definitive conviction may not result in extradition due
to a U.S. prohibition on being tried twice for the same crime.  Knox’s defense has “extremely powerful arguments to put a
halt to the extradition process,” Sean Casey, a  New York 
attorney at Kobre & Kim LLP and a former U.S. prosecutor, said
in an interview earlier this year.  “The treaty between the two countries specifically
prohibits extradition of someone that was once acquitted for a
crime,” Casey said. Given the “massive flaws” in the original
trial, he said, Knox’s lawyers would have strong grounds to
lobby the U.S. government to turn down any request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  