-- Hammond Tests Greater Government Role in U.K. Defense Agency
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-09-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/hammond-tests-greater-government-role-in-u-k-defense-agency.html
Defence Secretary Philip Hammond
said he has put extra resources into examining whether the U.K.
should keep its military-procurement office in public hands as
the government works toward a decision on part-privatization.  The Ministry of Defence has been seeking to transform the
Defence Equipment & Support agency, with an annual budget of 14
billion pounds ($23 billion), into a government-owned,
contractor-operated organization, known as a go-co, to cut
costs. The U.K. would be the first country anywhere to privatize
defense-procurement decisions.  To date, Hammond has said he favors the go-co option. He
has now appointed a two-star general to examine an alternative,
known as DE&S-Plus, which would effectively change the terms and
conditions of employees in the organization to make it more
flexible, while keeping it in government hands.  “It reflects a concern that perhaps we hadn’t put enough
resource into the DE&S-Plus option inside DE&S,” Hammond said
in an interview yesterday in Manchester, northern  England , where
his  Conservative Party  is holding its annual conference. “It’s
for the go-co bidders to show us how a go-co solution would show
us transfer of risk, and real value to the taxpayer.”  Two groups are in the final running for the project -- one
comprising CH2M Hill Inc.,  WS Atkins Plc (ATK)  and  Serco Group Plc (SRP) ,
with the other including Bechtel Group Inc.,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and PA Consulting.  Bristol-Based  The U.K. government plans to spend 159 billion pounds by
2022 on buying and servicing defense equipment through DE&S,
which is based in  Bristol in  the west of England and employs
16,500 people. Ill-managed procurement decisions have cost the
U.K. billions of pounds in recent years.  Hammond also said the government is “still moving
forward” in discussions with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Europe ’s largest
defense company, over the future of its U.K. shipbuilding
programs.  BAE, which consolidated the U.K.’s warship-building
capacity in 2009, lacks work to sustain its three surface
shipyards located in Portsmouth on England’s south coast, and
Scotstoun and Govan in  Scotland . After completion of two Queen
Elizabeth-class aircraft carriers, due to start coming into
service in 2018, activity will dip before building of Type 26
global-combat ships starts. The company and the Defence Ministry
are in talks on whether to shut one site.  “We are in a program of maturing the Type 26 design; the
more mature the design is at the point of contract the easier it
is to properly allocate the contract,” Hammond said. “The
allocation of risk is an important issue. The decision that BAES
has to make about how it’s going to organize its business around
the much smaller volume of work once the  aircraft carrier  is
finished are decisions for BAES. It’s not for me to set the
timetable for that.”  Hammond also said there’s an “ongoing discussion” about
the aircraft-carrier program, which has again run over budget,
about “how we complete this project in a way which best aligns
the interest of Ministry of Defence and the industrial partners
and gets the project done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Manchester, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  