-- Hammond Tells U.K. Tories to Stop ‘Navel-Gazing’ Over Coalitions
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-09-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/hammond-tells-u-k-tories-to-stop-navel-gazing-over-coalitions.html
U.K. Defence Secretary Philip Hammond warned Tory lawmakers to stop “navel-gazing” about
whether they could ratify any future coalition agreement or risk
failing to win a parliamentary majority in the 2015 election.  The remarks are a rebuke to members of Parliament such as
Graham Brady, the chairman of the 1922 Committee that represents
rank-and-file Tories in the House of Commons. Brady said in an
interview with The  Times newspaper  published Sept. 27 that Prime
Minister  David Cameron  “fully understands and accepts” the
need for the party to have a say if there are talks with the
 Liberal Democrats  on sharing power again if one party alone
can’t form a government.  Following five days of negotiations in 2010, Cameron agreed
on coalition terms with  Nick Clegg ’s Liberal Democrats in
Britain’s first two-party government since World War II. While
the Liberal Democrats held a special conference to secure the
agreement of party members, Tory lawmakers were simply gathered
into a room and told by Cameron that the deal had been done.  “I’ve no doubt that if there were any discussions like
that, the party would want to have discussions internally,”
Hammond said in an interview yesterday at the party’s annual
conference in Manchester, northern England, when asked if there
would be a vote of the whole party before any coalition terms
are accepted. “Our focus is on winning the next election. We
are not going to spend the next 18 months navel-gazing, talking
about what to do if there is a hung Parliament. It becomes a
self-fulfilling prophecy.”  Clegg’s Case  Some polls during the last month have put the Tories neck
and neck with the opposition  Labour Party , opening up the
possibility of another coalition government in 2015. Clegg,
who’s now deputy prime minister, attempted to make the case at
his party conference two weeks ago for a permanent role for the
Liberal Democrats in government, saying he’d spent his entire
life watching Labour or the Tories “mess it up.”  In the interview, Hammond also ruled himself out as a
possible successor to Cameron at the head of the party. Asked if
wants to lead the Tories, he replied, “no.”  “The party works best as a team and different players in
the team have different strengths that they can bring to bear,”
Hammond said. “I know where my strengths are. I am very
interested in my role in defense. I think that’s where my
strengths are best deployed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Manchester,  England , at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  