-- Austrian Ruling Parties Eke Out Win With Record-Low Support
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-09-29T17:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/austrian-government-parties-win-election-while-drawing-low-votes.html
Austrians abandoned their two main
parties in record numbers at today’s national elections and
elected two protest movements to parliament for the first time.  The center-left  Social Democrats  won 26.6 percent of the
vote, their worst result since World War II, according to
projections calculated by ARGE Wahl and published by the
Austrian Press Agency. The Alpine nation’s conservative People’s
Party finished second, with 24.1 percent of the vote, also its
worst finish in the same period.  “If the two get together again, they need to change
radically or else they will be history in 2018,” said Peter Hajek, a Vienna-based polling and public-opinion analyst. “They
need to rethink their positions.”  The result gives Social Democratic Chancellor Werner Faymann the first chance at forming a new government in the
coming weeks. Since 2008, the nation of 8.4 million has been
ruled by the so-called “grand coalition” of socialists and
conservatives, a political pairing that has shared power in 42
of the last 68 years. Smaller parties may also vie to enter
government to form a three-way coalition.  “We can’t take the first place for granted,” Faymann told
reporters, according to APA. The Social Democrats will begin
negotiations with the  People’s Party , he said.  ‘End Ostracism’  The  Freedom Party , which favors fewer immigrants in  Austria 
and a euro-area exit, won 20.7 percent, the most votes since
their 1999 showing, which led to their inclusion in a government
with the People’s Party at the time.  “The Social Democrats and the People’s Party should quit
their undemocratic ostracism and enter into serious
negotiations,” Freedom Party leader Heinz-Christian Strache
told reporters in Vienna, adding that his party was ready to
“break the gridlock” of his political competitors.  Support for the Greens rose to a record 12.3 percent after
the party ran on its anti-corruption credentials following a
spate of scandals. Protests parties formed by Austrian-Canadian
billionaire  Frank Stronach  and former  Strabag SE (STR)  boss Hans-Peter Haselsteiner are poised to enter parliament with 5.7 percent and
5.1 percent, respectively.  Faymann and his conservative ally Michael Spindelegger
campaigned mostly against each other in the past months. The
Social Democrat’s options are more limited because he has ruled
out a pact with the Freedom Party. Spindelegger could form a
majority in a possible three-way coalition with the euro-skeptic
bloc and one of the new protest parties entering parliament.  “The People’s Party has to keep its options open to drive
up the price for another grand coalition,” Hajek said. Another
grand coalition will have to compromise and move quickly on
reforms, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  