-- Austrian Conservatives Keep Euro-Skeptic Pact in Play
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r ,   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-09-30T13:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/austrian-socialists-sinking-to-record-low-seek-coalition.html
Austrian conservatives kept the
option to form a government with euro-skeptic parties and
abandon an alliance with the socialists after voters dealt that
coalition an historical blow in yesterday’s national elections.  The conservative  People’s Party , led by Vice Chancellor
Michael Spindelegger, failed to overtake Chancellor Werner Faymann’s Social Democrats as both groups achieved the worst
result since 1945. Spindelegger, who would need support by two
groups that demand an end to euro-area rescue measures to reach
an alternative majority, wouldn’t pledge his support for a new
Socialist-led government, saying it’s up to Faymann to make the
first move.  “This has got to be a wake-up call,” Spindelegger said on
Austrian state radio Oe1 today. “We can’t just go on with the
coalition the way it was before as if nothing happened.”  The Alpine nation of 8.4 million people has been ruled by a
so-called grand coalition of socialists and conservatives in 42
of the last 68 years. Its political stability and strong
economic fundamentals have made Austria a haven for bond
investors, to whom it pays a  yield  close to  Germany ’s.  Austrian 10-year bonds rose along with German debt as
Italian securities declined today. The spread over German 10-year bonds narrowed by 1 basis point to 41 basis points, or 0.41
percentage point, at 1:47 p.m. London time.  Worst Results  Faymann’s center-left  Social Democrats  won 27.1 percent of
the vote, according to the  result  excluding absentee ballots
published by the  Interior Ministry . Spindelegger’s People’s
Party finished second with 23.8 percent. Remaining ballots will
be counted by Oct. 3.  “This will probably be the last election in which the
Socialists and People’s Party can form a coalition,” said
Austrian political scientist Anton Pelinka today in an
interview. “It is the beginning of the end of an era.”  The  Freedom Party , which wants fewer immigrants and a euro-area exit, won 21.4 percent, the most votes since 1999 when they
were led by the late  Joerg Haider . That resulted in their
inclusion in a government with the People’s Party in 2000. A
euro-skeptic protest party formed by Austrian-Canadian
billionaire  Frank Stronach  took 5.8 percent in its first
national run.  The pro-euro environmentalist Greens got a record 11.5
percent after the party ran on its anti-corruption credentials
following a spate of scandals. Another new entrant is Neos, a
pro-euro liberal group supported by former  Strabag SE (STR)  boss Hans-Peter Haselsteiner, which took 4.8 percent.  Rightist Temptation  Some conservative supporters are tempted by the option to
end the uneasy coalition with the Social Democrats by forming an
alliance with the Freedom Party and Stronach’s group. The Social
Democrats’ options are limited because they ruled out a pact
with the Freedom Party. Spindelegger got standing ovations at
his group’s post-election party when he said he wouldn’t
immediately commit to a renewal of the grand coalition.  “Michael Spindelegger should become chancellor and should
seek a coalition that makes that possible,” said Maximilian
Schwager, a student at last night’s party. “If that means a
coalition with the Freedom Party, so be it.”  Faymann and Spindelegger mostly campaigned against each
other in the months before the elections. The Social Democrats
sought a  wealth tax  in return for a cut for low and middle
incomes and proposed more daycare options for children and
school reform. The conservatives campaigned to create jobs by
unshackling businesses and ran against the “Faymann levies”
and “compulsory kindergarten.”  Euro Support  Meanwhile, both parties have backed German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s management of the euro-area debt crisis, drawing
on support by the Greens when they needed a two-thirds majority
in parliament to ratify legislation. That line could be in doubt
in a government backed by Freedom or Stronach, and would run
counter to the People’s Party’s own pro-European credentials.  “If you look at the really important issues concerning the
euro area and the European Union, the Freedom Party has totally
different positions,” said Stefan Bruckbauer, chief economist
at UniCredit Bank Austria AG in Vienna. “I simply can’t imagine
a government including the People’s Party that is opposed to the
current euro-area policies.”  Spindelegger’s reluctance may simply be a tactical move in
the mating dance that typically follows Austrian elections,
Bruckbauer said. Politicians needed 80 days to form a government
coalition on average in the past 30 years, he said.  “It’s a bargaining chip because the Social Democrats don’t
have an alternative,” he said. “The People’s Party will try to
take as long as possible and get as much as possible out of the
talks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  