-- Australian Stocks Post Best Quarterly Gain Since 2009 on Rates
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-09-30T06:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/australia-stocks-head-for-best-quarterly-gain-since-09-on-rates.html
Australian stocks posted the
biggest  quarterly  gain in four years as record-low interest
rates boost profits. AMP Capital Investors Ltd. and Equity
Trustees Ltd. see the rally continuing through 2014.  Australia ’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  surged 8.7 percent this
quarter, the steepest advance since the three months ended
September 2009. It will rise 12 percent to 5,950 by the end of
2014 as earnings expand on anticipation of faster economic
growth, said George Boubouras, of Equity Trustees Ltd. The local
market will surpass returns from U.S. shares in the next 12
months, according to AMP Capital Investors Ltd., a unit of the
country’s  largest  publicly traded asset manager.  The Reserve Bank of Australia cut its benchmark interest
rate to a record low last month and signaled it’s willing to
reduce borrowing costs further to weaken the currency and spur
expansion in the $1.5 trillion economy. Stocks also rose as
business and  consumer confidence  jumped to the highest level in
at least two years ahead of Tony Abbott’s Liberal-National
coalition election victory on Sept. 7.  “We’ll be seeing a reacceleration of earnings with
interest rates lower for longer and a lower Aussie dollar, all
supportive for equities,” Boubouras, who helps oversee $30
billion as chief investment officer at Equity Trustees in
Melbourne, said in a telephone interview on Sept. 23. “We’ll
get to 5,950 by the end of next year without any problem.”  Earnings Multiples  Australia’s benchmark equities gauge traded at 15.5 times
 estimated earnings  on Sept. 27, compared with 15.4 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Australian measure will beat the S&P 500 on the
quarter for the first time since December 2012, with the U.S.
benchmark rising 5.3 percent through Sept. 27.  The Australian’s currency’s 10 percent slide against the
dollar in the six months through Sept. 27 has boosted Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., the nation’s third-largest
lender by market value, and Navitas Ltd., a provider of
education services, as profits increased once repatriated. Both
firms get more than 28 percent of sales outside Australia.  Central bank Governor Glenn Stevens said last month that a
weaker Australian currency would help an economy set for its
slowest expansion in four years. Growth will slow to 2.25
percent this year, the central bank forecasts, before rebounding
to 2.7 percent in 2014 and 3 percent in 2015, according to the
median estimate of strategists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  RBA policy makers have cut the benchmark interest rate by
50 basis points this year to 2.5 percent, reducing it by a total
of 2.25 percentage points since November 2011. They will review
the rate tomorrow, with all 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News forecasting no change.  Confidence Returns  A Westpac Banking Corp. and  Melbourne  Institute survey
released Sept. 11 showed consumer  confidence  jumped this month
to the highest level since December 2010. A National Australia
Bank Ltd. survey released a day earlier showed business
confidence surged to the highest level since May 2011, with
sentiment increasing in all industries.  “The prospects for the relative outperformance of
Australian shares has improved,” Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based
head of dynamic asset allocation at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which manages about $130 billion, said in a telephone interview
on Sept. 26. “There’s a window that Aussie shares can
outperform, and that’s being driven by interest rates that are
really coming down here. And on top of that, you’ve had the
falling dollar. So financial conditions have eased
considerably.”  Biggest Gains  Raw-materials and energy companies posted the  largest  gains
among the 10 industry groups on the S&P/ASX 200 during the
quarter amid an increase in economic growth forecasts for China,
the biggest buyer of Australia’s minerals. Both sectors rose
more than 14 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest
mining company, climbed 13.9 percent this quarter and  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil producer, gained
9.4 percent.  In the U.S., the S&P 500 fell for five days after reaching
a record 1,725.52 on Sept. 18, its longest slump of the year,
amid concern a government shutdown will curb economic growth.
The measure will climb 8.9 percent from its Sept. 25 close to
1,844 by the end of 2014, according to the average estimate of
eight strategists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Even as confidence rebounds, Australian companies are
shedding staff in a potential threat to economic growth. The
nation in August recorded its first back-to-back monthly jobs
loss in more than two years, while the unemployment rate rose to
a four-year high of 5.8 percent, according to the statistics
bureau.  Telstra Corp. (TLS)  plans to cut 1,100 jobs, or about 2.9 percent
of its workforce, by June 2014, Australia’s biggest phone
company said Sept. 26.  Uncertain Outlook  “Companies are uncertain,” Olivia Engel, head of active
Australia equities at State Street Global Advisors Inc. in
Sydney, said in an e-mail Sept. 24. “They are not expecting the
economy to provide any growth opportunities.” State Street
manages $2.1 trillion globally.  Earnings-per-share on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 index will
increase 12 percent in the 2014 financial year, according to
estimates from Perpetual Investments, a Sydney-based asset
manager. That would beat the 5.7 percent prediction for U.S.
companies on the S&P 500, according to  forecasts  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chinese Manufacturing  A Chinese  manufacturing  index increased to a six-month high
in September, adding to signs of a rebound in the economy that
is Australia’s biggest trading partner. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. have all raised economic growth projections for
 China .  “There is little doubt that better data from Australia’s
major trading partners, combined with Tony Abbott’s recent
election win, has culminated in higher consumer and business
confidence,” said Matthew Sherwood, who helps oversee about $25
billion as head of markets research in Sydney at Perpetual
Investments. “Australian earnings growth has got to come
through to give the domestic market a further substantial
lift.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  