-- Banks’ Off-Balance-Sheet Risks Come Under Basel Scrutiny
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-30T09:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/banks-face-basel-debt-limit-capturing-off-balance-sheet-risks.html
Banks are set to face a broad
international leverage limit that will catch off-balance sheet
risks and prevent them from hiding their debt, according to the
head of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  The Basel group is seeking to put a ceiling on indebtedness
that will prove robust no matter how complicated a bank’s
business model,  Stefan Ingves , its chairman, said in an
interview.  “We want to catch leverage in a reasonable way, because
one of the things that history has taught us is that when you
look at episodes ex-post, when things fall apart, the conclusion
is almost always that there was somehow too much leverage in the
system and it was found out way too late,” said Ingves, who is
also governor of  Sweden ’s central bank.  A quarter of large global banks would have failed to meet a
draft version of the Basel leverage rule had the standard been
in force at the end of last year, according to  data  published by
the Basel committee on Sept. 25. Concerns that banks can reduce
their  capital requirements  by simply changing how they measure
the risk of losses on their assets have prompted calls from some
supervisors for more reliance on leverage limits, on the grounds
that they are harder for lenders to game.  Simple Bank  The group, which brings together regulators from 27-nations
including the U.S., U.K. and  China , is in “a good position” to
complete work on the leverage ratio rule “towards the end of
the year or sometime early next year,” Ingves said.  Under the committee’s timetable, banks will be expected to
publish how well they measure up to the rule from Jan. 1, 2015,
with the measure to become binding in 2018.  Regulators have said that moves by banks to boost profits,
and in certain cases to hide the true state of their finances,
by shifting activities off-balance sheet was one of the causes
of the crisis that was unleashed in 2007.  “If you take a very simple bank, not really a lot of off-balance sheet items, well then it’s very straightforward how you
do a leverage ratio,” Ingves said.  “Once you start looking into what’s off-balance sheet and
how to deal with off-balance sheet activities gross or net,
that’s when it gets more technical and more complicated, that’s
where also the devil is in some of the details,” he said.  Lehman Collapse  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., whose collapse five years
ago sparked worldwide market turmoil, used deals known as Repo
105s to remove assets from its books temporarily at the end of
quarters, giving investors the impression that the firm had
reduced leverage.  The core of the planned Basel rule is a requirement that
banks hold capital equivalent to at least 3 percent of their
assets, without any possibility to take into account the
riskiness of a lender’s investments.  Leverage ratios differ from standard Basel capital
requirements, which are measured as a ratio of banks’ equity
against risk-weighted assets. The Basel group has said that the
limit should be seen as a “backstop” to the risk sensitive
rules.  “The level that was talked about” in 2010 “of 3 percent
still stands,” Ingves said.  Recently, there has been “greater focus on more
straightforward measures such as leverage,”  Richard Reid , a
research fellow for finance and regulation at the  University of
Dundee  in  Scotland , said in an e-mail. “But even here it would
seem that there are significant opportunities for forbearance
and mitigation.”  Risk Based  Supervisors are split over how much regulators should rely
on leverage ratios as a tool to tame excessive risk-taking.  Advocates of the ratios include  Andy Haldane , the  Bank of
England ’s executive director for financial stability, and board
members of the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Other
regulators, including Bundesbank Vice President Sabine Lautenschlaeger, have warned that such measures shouldn’t be
seen as a panacea, or as a replacement for risk-based capital
rules.  “Tough leverage rules prevent the gaming that has made
risk-based capital notorious, especially in the EU. But, it also
creates strong incentives to hold as many high-risk assets as
possible to game the leverage rules,” Karen Shaw Petrou,
managing partner of Washington-based research firm Federal
Financial Analytics Inc., said in an e-mail.  “There’s no simple, perfect answer, which is why effective
supervision -- the weakest link of all -- is so essential,” she
said.  Leverage Ratios  Part of the regulatory push for leverage ratios stems from
concerns about potential gaming of capital requirements. The
Basel committee said earlier this year that there are material
differences in how much capital banks think is needed to guard
against possible losses on their assets.  The Basel group will next month unveil some steps to
address this as part of a draft overhaul of capital rules for
assets that banks plan to trade, Ingves said.  “One issue there is disclosure -- how banks explain what
kind of metrics they use when it comes to calculating risk-weighted assets,” Ingves said. “It’s absolutely clear that
there are issues that need to be dealt with.”  Regulators in countries including the U.S., U.K. and Sweden
have signaled their intention to force some of their banks to
either meet the Basel rules ahead of schedule, or to adhere to
leverage limits that are tougher than minimum international
standards.  Morgan Stanley  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  will be among U.S.
banks to face tougher leverage ratios than required under Basel.  The Basel committee sought views earlier this year on how
the leverage ratio should apply to off-balance sheet activities
such as derivatives trades and securities financing
transactions.  “The key issue” in setting a leverage ratio “is really
how you define assets,” Ingves said, speaking in Basel
following a two-day meeting of the committee. “And the more
complicated the bank, the more complicated it gets, then the
more precise you have to be, in terms of particularly how you
deal with off-balance sheet items,” he said.  Bank of England deputy governors  Paul Tucker  and  Andrew Bailey  told lawmakers in July that it was “right” for the U.K.
to impose a 3 percent leverage ratio on banks immediately, five
years earlier than plans agreed to by global regulators.  “There is a very clear view from our side that a 3 percent
leverage ratio is a sensible minimum point to have institutions
at, and those who are not at to have plans to get to,” Bailey
told lawmakers in Parliament in  London  on July 2. “We are
trying to establish what I would call a minimum baseline.”  Ingves also said that the committee would press ahead with
reviewing how well nations have applied Basel capital rules.  The committee’s aim is that follow-up reviews of the EU and
U.S. will be completed and published “at some point in the
third quarter of 2014,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  