-- Bearish ETF Bets Cost Decline on Growth: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-09-29T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/bearish-etf-bets-cost-decline-on-growth-china-overnight.html
Options traders are paying the
least in four months to protect against drops in the largest
Chinese  exchange-traded fund  in the U.S. on prospects a recovery
in the world’s second-largest economy will be sustained.  The  premium  of three-month puts on the iShares China Large-Cap ETF over calls was 3.1 points on Sept. 26, the smallest
since May 21, options data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. dropped 0.4 percent last week, led by  E-House
China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  and China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index is set for a 13
percent rally this quarter, the biggest in 2013 after data from
exports to manufacturing showed faster-than-estimated expansion.
The China-US gauge has gained 19 percent over the past three
months, poised for the best quarter since 2010. President Xi
Jinping is expected to push forward more detailed economic plans
during the Communist Party meeting in November.  The options showed “investors’ short-term concerns about
the economy have lessened after latest macro data showed a
pickup in the economy,” Tan Chiheng, an analyst at Granite
 Point Capital Inc. (PTCI) , which invests in Chinese equities, said by
phone on Sept. 27 from  Boston . “People also expect policy
makers to roll out more reform measures that are positive to the
economy in the upcoming November meeting.”  Implied volatility , used to gauge the cost of options, for
three-month contracts with an exercise price 10 percent below
the China ETF cost retreated 12 percent this month to 24.5 Sept.
27, the lowest since June 4. The measure for calls 10 percent
above slipped 10 percent to 21.2.  E-House Slumps  The China ETF has jumped 7.2 percent this month, set for
the largest monthly rally since December. The fund slipped 0.7
percent to $37.65 on Sept. 27.  Chinese stocks traded in  New York  followed U.S. equities
lower last week after the  U.S. Senate  voted to finance the
government through Nov. 15 after removing language to defund
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, putting pressure on
the House to avoid a federal shutdown set to start Oct. 1.  E-House, China’s biggest real estate information website,
slid 6.9 percent last week to $9.03, trimming its rally this
month to 49 percent. American depositary receipts of  China
Unicom (CHU) , the nation’s second-biggest wireless carrier, dropped
5.2 percent for the week to $15.44, paring its gain in September
to 2.6 percent.  Solars Gain  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , a Baoding, China-based solar-panel maker,
surged 29 percent last week to a two-year high of $14.83. Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co., the biggest panel maker globally,
soared 20 percent for the week to $6.73, the highest level since
August 2011.  Deutsche Bank analyst Vishal Shah raised his
recommendations on both Trina and Yingli to buy from hold in a
note on Sept. 27. He lifted a price target for Trina to $18 from
$11.50, and that for Yingli to $8 from $5.  RDA Microelectronics Inc. (RDA) , a Shanghai-based semiconductor
components maker, jumped Sept. 27 after saying it received a
non-binding takeover proposal from state-owned  Shanghai  Pudong
Science and Technology Investment Co. for $15.50, which
represents an 11.7 percent premium to the closing level the
previous day.  Its ADRs climbed 11 percent last week to $15.54 in New
York, the highest level since January 2011. Trading volume
surged to 11 times the three-month average on Sept. 27, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  RDA Offer  The offer appears “conservative” relative to the target
price of Topeka Capital Markets Inc., analyst Suji De Silva
wrote in a note Sept. 27. He forecast the bidding price may get
a “bump” closer to Topeka’s price estimate of $17.  China  will allow trial convertibility of the  yuan  under the
capital account in a free trade zone being established in
Shanghai, the government said Sept. 27 in a statement on its
website. Citigroup Inc. and Bank of China Ltd. announced they
will participate in the trade zone, the 11-square-mile
experiment in more relaxed financial and investment controls
that was inaugurated yesterday.  The two banks were among the first to announce their
participation in the zone, which opens Oct. 1 with the aim of
creating a more efficient and open economic system, Commerce
Minister Gao Hucheng said at an opening ceremony.  The area is a testing ground for free-market policies that
Premier  Li Keqiang  has signaled he may later implement more
broadly in the world’s second-largest economy. Li and President
Xi are expected to seek support for plans to reduce the
government’s hand in the economy and financial system at a
Communist Party plenum this November.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s planned initial public
offering in New York will help Chinese Internet companies from
Sina Corp. to Baidu Inc. to extend rallies, Michael Kass, a New
York-based portfolio manager at Baron Capital Inc., said in a
phone interview Sept. 25.  “China has a lot of tailwinds over the balance of the
year, and I expect markets to perform well,” Eric Brock, who
helps oversee $4.2 billion as a portfolio manager at Clough
Capital Partners, said by e-mail from Boston Sept. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  