-- Cameron Opens U.K. Tory Conference With Bid to Woo Critics
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-30T08:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/cameron-starts-tory-conference-with-bids-to-woo-critics-voters.html
David Cameron  spent the weekend at
the start of his  Conservative Party ’s annual conference trying
to win over internal critics and show voters he understands
their financial concerns.  Two days ago, the U.K. prime minister announced a tax break
for lower-earning married couples, an action often demanded by
rank-and-file Tory lawmakers. A day later, he brought forward
the start of the Treasury’s Help-to-Buy program, under which the
government will underwrite risky mortgages, a move he said will
help young people who don’t have the savings to buy a home.  “We always have to do more,” Cameron told the BBC
yesterday in Manchester, northern  England , where his party is
meeting. “So far, as this economy has started to recover, it’s
still very difficult for people to make ends meet, because they
see their wages are relatively fixed, and yet the prices are
going up.”  The opposition  Labour Party  put pressure on Cameron last
week with a pledge to freeze energy prices for 18 months if it
wins power in 2015. A  YouGov Plc (YOU)  poll in yesterday’s Sunday
Times newspaper gave Labour an 11 percentage-point lead over the
Tories. The pollster had the two parties tied on Sept. 18.  Cameron’s relationship with his own lawmakers this year has
been characterized by a series of unprecedented defeats, with
record numbers refusing to back his legislative program and then
a smaller number voting against his call for military action in
 Syria .  UKIP Gains  The Conservatives have lost support to the U.K.
Independence Party, which campaigns for British withdrawl from
the EU and has drawn voters unhappy with equal marriage and
government programs on immigration, according to polls.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  ruled out an
electoral pact with the party.  “There aren’t going to be any deals with UKIP and there
aren’t going to be any Conservative-UKIP candidates locally,”
Osborne told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show. “Candidates have to
be approved by the party and the Conservative Party will be
fielding Conservative only candidates.”  The premier’s critics within the Conservative party have
regularly called for a marriage tax break. Starting in 2015, a
person who doesn’t earn enough to use all of his or her 10,200-pound ($16,400) tax-free allowance will be able to transfer
1,000 pounds of it to his or her spouse. It won’t apply to
couples in which one person pays tax at the 40 percent rate --
likely to be on earnings of more than 42,285 pounds.  Help to Buy  The policy, which would also apply to same-sex civil
partnerships, will be worth 200 pounds a year to a couple in
which one partner earns less than 10,200 pounds and the other
between 11,200 and 42,285 pounds.  The Help-to-Buy plan has drawn criticism from the
 International Monetary Fund  and Business Secretary  Vince Cable ,
a member of Cameron’s Liberal Democrat coalition partner, who
say it may spark a property bubble. The first phase, interest-free loans for buyers of newly built homes, began in April and
has already contributed to the strongest housing market since
the financial crisis.  The second will provide government-guaranteed mortgages for
buyers with a down payment of as little as 5 percent of the
value of a home costing as much as 600,000 pounds. The
guarantees are meant to spur 130 billion pounds of  mortgage
lending .  Homebuyer Aspirations  “I am not going to stand back as people’s aspiration to
buy their own home is being trashed,” Cameron told the  BBC . He
said the nation should put its trust in the  Bank of England ,
which has “tools to stop bubbles from occurring.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , its NatWest unit, and
Halifax, the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc,
confirmed they will offer 95 percent Help to Buy mortgages,
Cameron said on his Twitter feed.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said Sept. 27 he
will introduce checks every September on the program with the
Bank of England in response to concerns it might spark a bubble.
The bank’s Financial Policy Committee will advise Osborne on
whether key parameters, such as the price cap and the fee
charged to lenders, remain appropriate.  Cameron reiterated his opposition to the so-called mansion
tax, a levy on houses valued at more than 2 million pounds
that’s favored by Miliband and Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg . “To go after someone’s house every year
with a  wealth tax , I don’t think that is a sensible thing to
do,” Cameron said.  The Conservatives were greeted in Manchester by a
demonstration against government policies, including changes to
the state-funded  National Health Service . Inside the conference
center, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond was heckled by veterans
of one of the army units he plans to abolish.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Manchester at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  