-- Cameron Accelerates Help-to-Buy Amid Housing-Boom Concerns
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-09-29T10:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/cameron-accelerates-help-to-buy-plan-amid-housing-boom-concerns.html
Prime Minister David Cameron defied
critics of his government’s “Help to Buy” program to aid
Britons frozen out of the property market by the need for high
deposits, saying the second phase will start next week, three
months earlier than planned.  The plan has drawn criticism from the International
Monetary Fund and Business Secretary Vince Cable, who say it may
spark a property bubble. The first phase, interest-free loans
for buyers of newly built homes, began in April and has already
contributed to the strongest housing market since the financial
crisis.  The second will provide government-guaranteed mortgages for
buyers with a deposit of as little as 5 percent of the value of
a home costing as much as 600,000 pounds ($968,000). The
guarantees are meant to spur 130 billion pounds of  mortgage
lending .  “I am not going to stand back as people’s aspiration to
buy their own home is being trashed,” Cameron told BBC
television’s “Andrew Marr Show” in Manchester, northern
England, where his Conservative Party begins its annual
conference today. He said the nation should put its trust in the
Bank of England, which has “tools to stop bubbles from
occurring.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , its NatWest unit, and
Halifax, the mortgage unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,
confirmed they will offer 95 percent Help to Buy mortgages,
Cameron said on his Twitter feed.  Annual Checks  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said Sept. 27 he
will introduce checks every September on the program with the
Bank of England in response to concerns it might spark a bubble.
The bank’s Financial Policy Committee will advise Osborne on
whether key parameters, such as the price cap and the fee
charged to lenders, remain appropriate.  Data last week showed home values rose the most in more
than a year this month and the FPC said it’s ready to act if any
risks to stability emerge.  Osborne and Cameron said today that concerns about an
unsustainable housing market are limited to central  London .  “Talk of a housing bubble to people here in Manchester or
Salford and they would literally laugh in your face,” Cameron
said. Osborne told BBC Radio 5 the concept of a housing boom is
“very, very remote” for people outside of London.  ‘Nuts, Frankly’  Cameron responded to criticism from the Labour Party he is
doing too little to address the cost of living, after opposition
leader Ed Miliband pledged a freeze on energy prices if he wins
the 2015 election at his party conference last week.  Cameron attacked the plan as “anti-business, anti-enterprise” and “nuts, frankly.” The premier defended how the
energy market is functioning, saying “I don’t accept that all
the regulation is failing. Putting people on the lowest tariff
is having an effect as we speak.”  Cameron reiterated his opposition to the so-called mansion
tax, a levy on houses valued at more than 2 million pounds
that’s favored by Miliband and Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg.  “To go after someone’s house every year with a wealth tax,
I don’t think that is a sensible thing to do,” Cameron said.  Cameron insisted the planned high-speed rail link from
London to northern  England , known as HS2, is “going to happen”
after Labour raised doubts over the rising costs.  Fair Share  “The choice is do we build an old-style Victorian” line
“or do we build one of the new high-speed lines,” Cameron
said. “In the next Parliament we’ll be spending more than three
times as much on other transport projects as we will on HS2.
It’s not taking up an unfair share of the budget.”  In an interview with the Sunday Telegraph newspaper,
Cameron said that the European Union deserves “one last
chance” to reform itself. He ruled out a referendum on
continued British membership before 2017, after suggestions Tory
rank-and-file lawmakers may try to amend the EU referendum bill
when it is debated in Parliament later this year, calling for
the vote to happen in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Manchester, England, at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  