-- China Mobile Brands Boosts Wistron to FIH as Sony Falters
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/china-mobile-brands-boosts-wistron-to-fih-as-sony-falters.html
As  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) 
stumble, the companies that supply their factories have
suffered. Now, those suppliers are finding relief from a new
quarter: Chinese brands with growing appeal to domestic buyers.  Five of the top six mobile-phone brands in China -- the
world’s largest handset market -- are domestic. Only  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  still outsells them, while  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  dropped to
seventh place in the second quarter and neither Nokia nor Sony
was in the top 10, according to researcher Canalys.  With their growing sales of phones, and now tablet
computers and Internet-linked televisions, the likes of  Lenovo
Group Ltd. (992) ,  ZTE Corp. (763) , and Xiaomi Corp. are giving a lift to
 Wistron Corp. (3231) ,  FIH Mobile Ltd. (2083)  and other embattled contract
manufacturers and component makers.  “ China ’s home brands are getting stronger and grabbing
market share from traditional global brands that used to
outsource assembly,” said Jimmy Chen, an analyst at Masterlink
Securities in Taipei. These Chinese companies “create more and
more order volume for the suppliers.”  Sony, the world’s No. 3 TV maker last year, cut orders from
suppliers like Wistron and brought manufacturing in-house as its
TV business posted its ninth-straight annual  loss . Nokia had
more than half of the phone market before Apple introduced the
iPhone six years ago. After losses exceeding 5 billion euros
over nine quarters, Nokia this month said it will sell its
handset unit to Microsoft Corp. for $7.2 billion.  Foxconn Woes  The decline of Nokia has been particularly hard on FIH
Mobile, the Hong Kong-listed subsidiary of Taiwan’s Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. formerly known as  Foxconn International
Holdings Ltd. (2038)   Nokia, which used to account for 40 percent of FIH’s sales,
now represents about 10 percent, investment bank Jefferies
estimates. And Xiaomi, not a major customer a year ago, today is
the third-largest, accounting for 10 percent of sales.  Hon Hai declined to comment on FIH Mobile’s business with
Nokia or China customers.  Lenovo’s growth aids suppliers of Nokia components like
Qualcomm Inc., LG Display Co. and Innolux Corp.,  data  compiled
by Bloomberg show. Lenovo cooperates on TV production with Sharp
Corp., giving the Japanese company a boost after losses totaling
921 billion yen in the past two financial years.  Lenovo posted record  revenue  of $34 billion last year, up
15 percent, as it expanded into smartphones and tablet
computers. The company’s smartphone shipments more than doubled
from a year earlier to a record 11.4 million units during the
three months ended June, the company said in August.  Unlike established brands such as Lenovo and ZTE, three-year-old Xiaomi has no manufacturing capacity, so its rapid
growth translates into orders for FIH Mobile.  Profit Rebound  The shift is helping spark a rebound at FIH Mobile, which
reported net losses in two of the past three years as Nokia cut
orders. FIH Mobile is projected to return to profit this year
with net income of $66.5 million, the average of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. FIH Mobile shares are up 27 percent this
year versus a 2.4 percent gain in the  Hang Seng Index .  Xiaomi more than doubled its revenue in the first half of
2013 by selling smartphones costing half what an iPhone does. It
surpassed Apple in handsets sold in the second quarter,
according to Canalys.  “The growth exceeded our expectations,” Xiaomi President
Bin Lin said in an interview. “As we achieve huge volumes on
one particular model, or a few models, costs are being driven
down.”  The company says it has sold more than 17 million
smartphones in the past two years. Its latest model, the Mi3, is
the world’s fastest smartphone, Xiaomi says.  Unfilled Capacity  Xiaomi’s focus on just a few popular phones -- unlike
companies that make a broader range of models sold in smaller
quantities -- suits FIH Mobile, said Ken Hui, an analyst with
Jefferies in  Hong Kong .  “The competitive advantage for FIH is doing assembly for
handsets in large volumes, and they can do that more cost-effectively than anyone,” Hui said.  Xiaomi aims to do the same for TVs. The company said this
month it will offer a 47-inch (119-centimeter) TV that connects
to the Web running the Android operating system for $490. That
device will be built by Wistron, which has been hurt by a drop
in TV orders from its largest customer, Sony, according to
Yuanta Securities Co.  “Wistron expanded capacity, and then when things turned
south, Sony couldn’t give them orders,” said Yuanta analyst
Vincent Chen.  Brighter Future  Wistron’s expected production of 3.2 million TVs this year
is less than 20 percent of its capacity, Chen said. So every
extra order to keep factories humming is “good news” for
Wistron, he said.  Wistron’s net income is projected to be unchanged at NT$6.7
billion this year, the average of 22 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, after dropping more than 25 percent in each of the
previous two years. Wistron declined to comment on its
partnership with Xiaomi.  While Xiaomi President Lin declined to comment on TV
production plans, the benefit to FIH from his company’s success
in handsets points to a brighter future for Wistron.  “The scale and economics are playing out really well” for
Xiaomi and its suppliers, Lin said. “We both benefit.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  