-- China Watchdog Embraces Risk After Everbright Fat Finger
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-30T17:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/china-markets-watchdog-embraces-risk-after-everbright-fat-finger.html
China ’s securities watchdog is
forging ahead with rules that allow  brokers  to invest in complex
financial products and enter risky new businesses even after an
unprecedented $3.8 billion trading error roiled markets.  In the past six weeks, the China Securities Regulatory
Commission ended an 18-year hiatus on trading of treasury bond
futures and said it would let more brokerages borrow stock for
short selling. Those measures were disclosed after misplaced
bets caused by faulty software at  Everbright Securities Co. (601788)  on
Aug. 16 caused the wildest swings in  Shanghai  shares since 2009.  Policy makers in China, seeking to improve allocation of
capital, have since 2008 permitted brokerages including
Shanghai-based Everbright to offer clients short selling and
margin trading, as well as betting on derivatives with their own
funds. While the state-controlled brokerage has now been
suspended from most proprietary trading, CSRC Chairman Xiao Gang
shows no loss of appetite for risk taking.  “This is definitely the direction to go for brokerages in
China, but with great opportunities come great risks,” Zhang Yanbing, Shanghai-based analyst at Zheshang Securities Co., said
by telephone. “When things become more complex, it will bring
unpredictable risks. There’s a lot about market risks that we
need to learn from developed markets.”  High Speed  Faulty trading software used by Everbright’s proprietary-trading desk, which specializes in high-frequency trades, sent
26,082 unintended buy orders in just two seconds on Aug. 16, the
company said in a  statement  two days later. The mistake, which
the securities regulator characterized as unprecedented in
China, led the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index to swing more
than 6 percent. The episode revived concern in markets about
“fat-finger” trading mistakes, a term originally used to
describe accidental orders caused by clumsy human typing.  Two weeks later, the CSRC, led by Xiao, 55, said futures
contracts on five-year treasury bonds would start trading from
Sept. 6. A week later, it gave approval for the Dalian commodity
exchange to start trading of iron-ore futures.  That was followed by China Securities Finance Corp.’s
decision to expand a program that allows brokerages to borrow
stocks from the state agency and lend to clients: The list of
firms was broadened and the number of securities that qualify
was tripled, it said Sept. 17.  Press officials for the CSRC didn’t reply to questions
faxed to their Beijing office seeking comment. Everbright didn’t
respond to questions sent to its Shanghai office.  ‘Aggressive’ Companies  Last month’s trading error has highlighted potential
weaknesses in new businesses such as computer-driven trading,
Zhou Xiaowen, an analyst at  Huachuang Securities Co. , said by
telephone from Beijing.  “People weren’t paying much attention to the risks
associated with brokerages’ use of quantitative investment
strategies,” Zhou said. “Companies that have been aggressive,
but lacked robust internal controls, will start to pay more
attention to potential problems tied to trading systems.”  High-frequency trading, which allows  hedge funds  and
institutional investors to use computers to execute orders in
milliseconds, has led to problems in the U.S. as well.  Knight Capital Group Inc., based in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey , bombarded exchanges with mistaken orders on Aug. 1,
2012. The firm, which has been renamed as KCG after being
purchased by Getco LLC, almost went bankrupt following the
software malfunction that caused more than $450 million in
trading losses.  Computer errors also caused the Nasdaq Stock Market to halt
transactions in all of its shares for about three hours on Aug.
22. That came two days after a glitch at a Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. computer flooded options markets with orders.  Erasing Trades  China’s securities watchdog has pledged to scrutinize risk
controls among the nation’s brokerages. The regulator said on
Aug. 30 that it was setting up special groups to study ways to
improve oversight of the securities industry.  Measures to clarify the definitions and standards for
abnormal trading -- and determine if requests to erase an
erroneous trade are justified -- will be issued, the CSRC  said 
on Sept. 6. The regulator also plans to enhance the management
of trading systems and related controls, establish a system for
canceling orders and set up a disclosure mechanism, it said.  While internal risk controls need to be strengthened at the
brokerages, the market-driven changes are improving regulation
within China’s securities industry, according to Luo Yi, a
Shenzhen-based analyst at China Merchant Securities Co.  Clear Agenda  “Barriers have been brought down in many other areas that
had previously been blocked,” Luo said. “The regulator is very
clear about its reform agenda, that it wants to let the market
play a bigger role and it also wants to step up enforcement.”  The CSRC began easing regulations for the nation’s
securities markets in 2008 amid a wider effort to reduce the
state’s control over the economy, even as the watchdog’s then
Chairman  Shang Fulin  warned brokerages to be wary of the
“financial innovations” that caused  Wall Street  to unravel.  Shang, 61, now chairman of China’s banking regulator, began
allowing brokerages including Everbright to enter or revive
businesses such as margin trading, which is lending funds to
clients for share purchases, and short selling, which allows
investors to bet against selected stocks.  Those liberalization efforts were stepped up after  Guo Shuqing , 57, was named Shang’s successor at the securities
watchdog in October 2011. The reshuffle coincided with a drop in
domestic initial public offerings, a slump in trading volumes
and the Shanghai Composite Index ending the year down 22
percent.  Active 2012  Under Guo, the CSRC issued about 52 new rules in 2012 --
making it one of the watchdog’s most active years -- as it
changed the way IPOs are priced in China and tightened the rules
for delisting companies.  Guo also began opening up the  securities market  to more
investors to boost trading. Among the steps he took before
leaving office in March was doubling the amount of money
foreigners are allowed to invest in stocks, bonds and deposits,
as well as lowering the fees charged for trading yuan-denominated shares and expanding an over-the-counter market.  He also took aim at China’s brokerages, which he said were
too small and weak, according to a  report  by the official Xinhua
News Agency in December 2011. The firms had little influence
over the financial system, limited access to sources of funding,
weren’t innovative enough and their quality of research was
poor, according to the report.  IPO Freeze  The brokerages’ traditional strongholds of managing
domestic IPOs -- which foreign investment banks are allowed to
do only through a joint venture with a local firm -- and
generating commissions from stock broking have also been
weakened.  Fundraising from IPOs in China dropped 80 percent to $14.4
billion last year from a record $71 billion in 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. China hasn’t had a first-time share
sale for almost a year as the CSRC is drafting new rules to
prevent misconduct and fraud by companies and their advisers.  Underwriting new stock offerings had accounted for about 70
percent of the brokerages’ investment-banking revenue from 2009
through 2011, according to He Zongyan, a Shanghai-based analyst
at Shenyin & Wanguo. Last year, it shrank to about 40 percent to
50 percent, He estimated.  Trading in China has also declined, curtailing revenue from
stockbroking businesses. The  100-day average  for Shanghai
Composite Index stocks fell as low as 6.3 billion in December
before rebounding to about 11 billion this week, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That’s still down from about 15.4 billion in
August 2009.  Trading Derivatives  To help the brokerages develop new lines of business, the
CSRC in November 2012 expanded the types of financial products
that the firms could invest in through their proprietary trading
desks to include some over-the-counter securities, according to
statements posted on its website. It also allowed qualified
firms to trade financial derivatives for investment gains,
instead of limiting their use for hedging.  The measures helped China’s securities firms expand. The
nation’s  114 brokerages  ended 2012 with $281 billion in total
assets after posting a combined net income of $5.37 billion,
according to the Securities Association of China. That compared
with assets of $939 billion and profit of $7.48 billion at New
York-based Goldman Sachs.  China’s stock market, which has a history of just about 20
years, is still developing and maturing, said Zhang of Zheshang
Securities.  Relaxed Rules  The CSRC  said  yesterday it would, among other new measures,
support securities firms’ offering of over-the-counter trading
of commodities and financial derivatives to domestic clients
from operations within Shanghai’s free-trade zone. The Chinese
government inaugurated the 11-square-mile experiment in more
relaxed financial and investment controls at a ceremony
yesterday.  Chinese securities firms have embraced the newer, more
lucrative lines of business.  The mainland brokerages, which rely on secondary  capital
markets  and are weak in market-making -- a key source of revenue
for global firms such as Goldman Sachs -- are exposed to more
risk in their proprietary trading desks than U.S. rivals,
according to a  March report  by the CSRC’s Beijing Institute of
Securities and Futures research unit.  Prop Trading  Trading strategies such as statistical arbitrage, a
technique that relies on mathematical modeling to identify price
differences between related securities, helped boost investment
income from proprietary trading for China’s 19 publicly traded
brokerages by 15 percent in the first half of 2013 to 11.1
billion  yuan , according to Wuhan city-based  Changjiang
Securities Co. (000783)   That accounted for almost a third of their combined
revenue, which climbed 10 percent to 37.7 billion yuan in the
first half, according to Zhang Lei, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Tebon Securities Co. Income from stockbroking, now the biggest
part of their business, grew 23 percent in the first half as
trading volumes rebounded from last year, while underwriting
fees slumped 37 percent, Zhang estimated.  “Sitting on excess capital has always been a problem for
the brokerage industry due to a lack of investment options,”
said He at Shenyin & Wanguo. “By using strategies such as
quantitative arbitrage, brokerages are hoping to boost the
return rates of their capital.”  Trial Program  The 19 brokerages’ average return on equity, a measure of
how well the firms reinvest shareholders’ capital, shrank to
3.48 percent in the first half of this year from 8.76 percent in
the first half of 2009, according to Tebon’s Zhang. Increased
debt levels and fast-growing operations such as margin financing
were critical, helping boost the average ROE by 17 basis points
in the first six months, she wrote in a Sept. 9 note.  Everbright, which is part of a group supervised by China’s
State Council with businesses ranging from banking and insurance
to tourism and property development, was among six brokerages
allowed to start  margin trading  and short selling in 2010.  In 2012, it was permitted to join a trial program that
enabled brokerages to borrow funds from China Securities Finance
Corp. -- which had been set up in 2011 as a central agency to
facilitate margin financing and short selling -- and lend to
investors.  In February, Everbright became one of the firms permitted
to borrow stocks from the agency and offer them to customers.
Short sellers can borrow those shares that they then sell,
betting that the stocks can be bought back later at a lower
price to profit from the difference.  Highest Exposure  While these new income sources gave Everbright the chance
to bolster earnings following three years of  declines , they also
allowed the firm to take on more risk.  The value of equities, securities and derivatives held by
Everbright’s proprietary trading unit relative to its net
capital position was 74 percent at the end of June, the highest
among 18 brokerages tracked by Changjiang Securities, and up
from 18 percent in December 2010. That compared with 59 percent
at Citic Securities Co., the largest Chinese brokerage by market
value, and 19.5 percent at second-ranked Haitong Securities Co.  Everbright’s ratio exceeded the 100 percent regulatory
limit after the erroneous trade, the company said on Aug. 18.  The snafu “is a watershed in the sense that brokerages’
internal risk controls will face stricter requirements as a
result,” said Zhou at Huachuang Securities. “The incident
attracted a lot of attention and the regulator will likely
introduce new rules to tackle the issue.”  Untested Software  The regulator concluded that Everbright engaged in  insider
trading  when it sold exchange-traded funds and shorted index
futures to offset the erroneous trade before telling the market
about its mistake. It handed down a record penalty of 523
million yuan, including confiscation of illicit gains, on Aug.
30. It also banned four executives including ex-president Xu Haoming from the securities industry for life and barred the
firm from most proprietary trading.  Everbright’s strategic investment department didn’t operate
within the firm’s internal risk-control system, and the trading
software, which had been in use for less than 15 trading days,
was designed and tested by only one programmer, according to the
watchdog’s  findings .  Shares of the brokerage slumped 22 percent since its
mistake through Sept. 30. China’s 19 publicly traded brokerages
posted an average stock drop of 0.5 percent in that period,
compared with the Shanghai Composite Index’s 5 percent advance.  Hiccups such as Everbright’s trading errors are to be
expected in a developing market, said Shenyin & Wanguo’s He.  “The brokerages have been weak on risk management during
this two-year period of rapid growth, so it’s not a surprise
that we should see such an incident,” He said. “As the
brokerages become more of an intermediary of capital, the firms
will be required to bolster internal controls.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  