-- Dollar Falls as U.S. Government Shutdown Looms; Yen Erases Gains
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-09-30T21:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/dollar-extends-drop-against-yen-with-government-shutdown-looming.html
The dollar fell against the
majority of its most-traded peers as political wrangling about
the U.S. budget threatened a partial government shutdown
tomorrow.  The U.S. currency pared declines as three economic reports
showed business activity expanded more than forecast. The yen
erased its rally versus the dollar even with Congress deadlocked
and a decision on raising the debt ceiling needed within three
weeks. The euro gained as Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s
deputy finance chief expressed confidence in preventing the
government from collapsing. The Australian dollar was unchanged
versus the greenback before Reserve Bank of Australia officials
meet.  “Markets are in the risk-off mode with the possible
government shutdown in the U.S. and political uncertainty in
Italy,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The
dollar has not been not playing the safe-haven role through this
latest period I think because throughout the year the dollar
tended to trade more positive with risk than negatively.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the
performance of a basket of 10 leading global currencies against
the dollar, fell for a second trading-day, declining 0.1 percent
to 1,011.85 at 5 p.m. New York time, after weakening as much as
0.2 percent.  Market Prices  The yen was little changed at 98.30 per dollar after
touching 97.50, the strongest since Aug. 29.  Japan ’s currency
fell 0.1 percent to 132.93 versus the euro after appreciating to
131.38, the strongest since Sept. 9. The euro was little changed
at $1.3527.  The dollar’s share of allocated central bank reserves
increased to 61.9 percent in the second quarter from 61.5
percent a year ago, according to International Monetary Fund
data. The ratio for the yen slipped to 3.8 percent from 3.9
percent, while the euro’s share declined to 23.8 percent from 25
percent.  The Canadian dollar’s share increased to 1.8 percent in the
second quarter from 1.6 percent in the first three months of the
year, IMF data show. For the Australian dollar, it rose to 1.7
percent from 1.6 percent.  The New Zealand dollar gained 7.4 percent versus the
greenback this month, while yen fell 0.1 percent.  This quarter, the kiwi led all major gainers with a 7.3
percent increase, while the worst-performing South African rand
has slipped 1.5 percent. Denmark’s krone is the best-performing
currency in 2013 and the rand has plunged 15.5 percent.  Aussie Move  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens and his board will keep the cash
rate at a record-low 2.5 percent, according to all 33 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Australian dollar was unchanged,
after four days of gains, at 93.17 U.S. cents.  Brazil ’s central bank increased its 2014 inflation forecast
as a weaker currency undermines the world’s biggest interest
rate increase. The real gained 1.6 percent to 2.2170 per dollar.  The U.S. Congress has one day to end a stalemate that
raises the risk of the first government shutdown in 17 years and
threatens talks to increase the debt limit.
  Failure to approve funding to keep the government open and to
raise the debt ceiling would have a destabilizing effect on the
economy, President  Barack Obama  said in a televised statement on  Sept. 27. Closing the government would cut fourth-quarter
economic growth by as much as 1.4 percentage points depending on
its length, according to economists from Moody’s Analytics Inc.  to Economic Outlook Group LLC.  Uncertain Conditions  “There are so many uncertain factors ahead of us, it’s no
wonder that risk is off,” said Niels Christensen, chief
currency strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “We are
seeing the usual pattern with a stronger Swiss franc, yen, and
if anything the dollar very much on the defensive.”  The MNI Chicago Report business barometer rose to 55.7 in
September from 53 the prior month. Numbers greater than 50
signal expansion. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 54.  The Dallas Fed’s manufacturing gauge jumped to 12.8, versus
a Bloomberg poll’s projection of 5.5 and a reading in August of
5. The Institute for Supply Management’s Milwaukee index rose to
55, versus a forecast of 50 and an August reading of 48.2.  Italy ’s Letta said he will ask for a vote of confidence on
Oct. 2, speaking on Rai 3 television. The Italian government has
been torn apart by legal troubles facing former leader Silvio
Berlusconi, whose criminal tax-fraud conviction subjects him to
expulsion proceedings in parliament. Berlusconi allies have said
they planned to quit the cabinet.  Italy Vote  “We think he’ll survive the no confidence vote and keep
the government going.” BNP Paribas’s Serebriakov said. “It’ll
still be a weakened, but that’s our base case.”  Europe’s common currency slipped as much as 0.3 percent to
1.2214 per franc, the weakest since May 3, before trading at
1.2239.  The yen strengthened before Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe is due to outline his plans tomorrow for taxes and an
economic-support package. Japan is set to raise its sales tax
next year for the first time since 1997, and Abe may introduce a
stimulus plan to offset the resulting drag on growth.  An increase in sales tax may spur yen gains unless balanced
by measures to support growth, said Stan Shamu, a market
strategist at IG Ltd. in  Melbourne . “Talk of an urgent call for
a corporate tax cut has been suddenly quashed,” he said.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $19.7 billion, compared with $29 billion on Sept. 27,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $5.4 billion, the
largest share of trades at 27 percent. Options on the dollar-yuan rate totaled $2.1 billion, or 10.6 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 78 percent more than the
average for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yuan options trading was
115 percent more than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  