-- Dubai Shares Rise to Five-Year High as Middle East Tensions Ease
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-09-29T10:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/dubai-shares-rise-to-five-year-high-as-middle-east-tensions-ease.html
Dubai’s stock index climbed to the
highest in almost five years as investors sought riskier assets
after political tension over  Iran  and Syria eased and the U.S.
delayed cutting monetary stimulus. Israeli stocks rose.  The benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  gained 1.2 percent to
2,770.67 at the close in Dubai, the highest since November 2008.
 Gulf Navigation (GULFNAV)  Holding PJSC, which owns and operates a tanker
fleet, soared to the highest in more than three years, while
 Dubai Financial Market PJSC (DFM) , the Gulf’s only publicly-traded
stock market, closed at the highest in a month.  Emaar Properties
PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai,
advanced the most in more than a week.  Political tension in the Middle East have eased after
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani had a phone conversation with
U.S. President  Barack Obama , the highest-level encounter between
the two country’s since before Iran’s Islamic revolution of
1979. Also, Syria agreed to a UN-led plan to destroy its
chemical weapons. The  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly delayed Sept.
18 reducing monetary stimulus, boosting global sentiment for
equities.  Investors are adding risk after the “surprise of the Fed
delaying tapering, regionally continued improvement in the
Syrian situation and finally some thawing of sentiment between
Iran and the U.S.,” Amer Khan, a Dubai-based director at Shuaa
Asset Management, said in an e-mail today. “That is backed by a
real estate market and broader economy on the move.”  May 2011  Dubai’s economy is set to expand 4.6 percent, on average,
between 2012 and 2015, more than twice the growth of the
previous four years, according to government forecasts. Events
like the Cityscape Global property fair in October and the
possibility of Dubai winning the bid in November to host the
World Expo 2020 are also boosting economic prospects.  Kuwait’s benchmark index and Oman’s rose 0.3 percent, while
Qatar’s increased 0.5 percent. Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share
Index declined 0.2 percent at 1:09 p.m. in Riyadh, Bahrain’s
index and Egypt’s EGX 30 lost 0.2 percent. Abu Dhabi’s measure
was little changed.  Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  advanced 1.2 percent to
1,271.08, set for the highest close since May 2011, as Israel
Chemicals Ltd. and Elbit Systems Ltd. led the gains.  “The positive weekend noise about the high-level contact
between U.S. and Iranian officials may lead some investors to
lower the  risk premium  in Israel,” Zach Herzog, head of
international sales at Psagot Investment House Ltd., said today
by phone. “A broad Middle East war sparked by an Israeli attack
on Iran has been weighing on foreign investors for some time.”  Economic Growth  In Dubai, Gulf Navigation jumped 15 percent to 57 fils. The
shares have soared 91 percent since the company said last week
it plans to sell a supertanker. Dubai Financial Market rose 3
percent to 2.05 dirhams, while Emaar gained 0.9 percent to 5.79
dirhams.  The emirate’s annual economic growth will be boosted by
about 0.5 percentage points in the run up to the Expo and by
about 2 percentage points during the World Fair should the
emirate secure the bid, BofA-Merrill Lynch said in a report
Sept. 23. Dubai’s growing population and its status as a haven
amid political and economic unrest in other parts of the  Middle
East , have helped boost apartment prices by 38 percent in the
past 12 months, Standard Chartered Plc. said earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  