-- Team Sky Cyclist Tiernan-Locke Faces Probe by UCI Ruling Body
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-29T16:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/team-sky-cyclist-tiernan-locke-faces-probe-by-uci-ruling-body.html
Team Sky cyclist Jonathan Tiernan-Locke withdrew from racing after the sport’s ruling body
notified him of potential discrepancies in his “biological
passport.”  Tiernan-Locke, 28, the 2012 Tour of Britain champion, had
already pulled out of today’s World Championships road race in
Florence,  Italy , citing lack of form. Blood and urine data are
recorded in riders’ biological passports to aid the fight
against performance-enhancing drugs.  Team Sky, whose riders Bradley Wiggins and Chris Froome won
the Tour de  France  in 2012 and 2013, said the inquiry by the
 Union Cycliste Internationale  relates to a period before
Tiernan-Locke joined the team in January.  “Team Sky has been informed by Jonathan Tiernan-Locke that
the UCI has notified him of a potential discrepancy in his
biological passport data,” the team said  in a statement . “He
has withdrawn from racing whilst his response to the UCI is
prepared, then considered by the UCI.”  The team added that it had “no doubts over his
performance, behavior or tests at Team Sky and understand any
anomaly is in readings taken before he joined the team.”  Team Sky said the inquiry process should be confidential,
enabling the rider to explain in private, without prejudice, and
the anti-doping authorities to do “their valuable job.”  “At this stage in the ongoing process we will not add any
further detail,” the team said.  ‘Zero Tolerance’  Team Sky has adopted a “zero tolerance” policy, refusing
to employ anyone who’s been involved in drug misuse.  The team’s statement came in response to a report in
today’s Sunday Times, which said variations in Tiernan-Locke’s
blood readings are being examined.  The UCI didn’t pick up a telephone call from  Bloomberg News 
seeking comment.  Two days ago, Brian Cookson of the U.K. was elected
president of the UCI, ousting incumbent Pat McQuaid, after
vowing to clean up the sport’s image following the Lance Armstrong doping scandal. Cookson has led British Cycling since
1997 and has sat on the UCI management committee since 2009.  Asked about Tiernan-Locke today, Cookson told the British
Broadcasting Corp.’s Radio 5 Live Sportsweek program that “this
absolutely underlines why anti-doping has got to be independent
from the UCI and I certainly won’t be interfering in this
process at all. I wouldn’t have done when I was British Cycling
president and I won’t now I’m UCI president.”  Armstrong was stripped of his seven  Tour de France  wins by
the UCI last October following a U.S. Anti-Doping Agency
investigation that used affidavits by several former teammates
to prove he doped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at  