-- Hedonism Makes Comeback as Monaco Pitches Post-Crisis Yachts
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-09-29T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/hedonism-makes-comeback-as-monaco-pitches-post-crisis-yachts.html
The largest vessel at the  Monaco
Yacht Show  last week was the  Quattroelle , an 88-meter boat with
marble floors, bronze balustrades, Murano glass chandeliers and
a baby grand piano -- evidence expensive toys are back.  With a charter price of $1 million a week, the super-yacht
at the annual trade show that ended Sept. 28 also had a
“collectable art” blue and white zigzag painted helicopter
perched on one deck and a Porsche 918 Spyder parked on another.  “It’s a buyers’ market but it’s turning fast,” Peter
Thompson, a partner at brokerage  Worth Avenue Yachts , said in an
interview aboard another boat, the 58-meter Mi Sueno, as she
sailed toward  Monaco . She’s listed for sale at $40 million.  The global financial crisis triggered by the Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy in 2008 led to an almost 20
percent drop in super-yacht deliveries the following year and a
60 percent drop in new orders. Now, as the  U.S. stock market 
roars back and economic growth is slowly returning in many
regions, the hundreds of shipbuilders and brokers who descended
on the Mediterranean principality were increasingly confident
that the worst is now behind them.  “We can see that there is demand,” said Peter Lurssen,
managing partner of family-owned Lurssen Werft GmbH shipyard
based in Bremen,  Germany , which specializes in building the
longest super-yachts.  The shipyard delivered the Quattroelle -- whose name
represents love, life, liberty and luxury -- for an undisclosed
price in January and then the even-larger Azzam, which at 180
meters surpasses billionaire  Roman Abramovich ’s Eclipse vessel
for the record.  “It’s total hedonism,” said Thompson.  Rising Sales  Figures published this month indicate the tide may just be
turning. Yachts sales rose 37 percent during the first six
months of this year compared with the same period last year,
according to the 2012 study of super-yachts by brokerage  Camper
& Nicholsons International . It tracks shipyards as well as the
brokerage business of buying, selling and chartering motorized
and sailing yachts measuring more than 24 meters.  According to the review, 169 boats were delivered last year
worth 3.5 billion euros ($4.7 billion), a 6 percent drop from
179 in 2011. Since a 2008 record of 261, the number has steadily
declined.  “It has clearly dropped,” said Lurssen. “Six or seven
years ago it was much bigger.”  Nevertheless, clues in the study point to an improving
environment. The number of contracts signed for new boats rose
to 152 last year compared with 141 and a smaller proportion of
the existing fleet was for sale.  New Markets  “The American market is starting to move,” Fabio Ermetto,
chairman of brokerage  Fraser Yachts , said in an interview.
“ Europe  will follow, but not as quickly.”  The boom in Russian demand for yachts has subsided,
although owners are now preoccupied with upgrading “to the next
step,” he said. Markets in  Latin America  and  China  are emerging.  Yachts preened for charter or for sale were crammed into
Monaco’s harbor last week as brokers jockeyed to attract
customers aboard their real-estate. Between last year and 2007,
the yacht-brokerage industry has doubled.  With just under a third of the world’s super-yacht fleet of
6,290 for sale at an estimated combined value of $17 billion,
asking prices have dropped by a fifth since the pre-Lehman days,
according to the Camper & Nicholsons study.  The heightened competition means yacht builders, designers,
crews and chefs go all out to cater to every whim and folly of
super-yachting clients, according to Glynne Smith, the captain
of Mi Sueno.  Beats Hotels  One weekend getaway he oversaw on a private yacht in the
Mediterranean recently included belly dancers and live bands at
each port of call as well as fireworks loaded onto barges
designed to illuminate, on cue, the darkened harbor skies -- all
for about half-a-million dollars.  “This smokes a five-star hotel,” he said. “No hotel in
the world can match what we do.”  As the super-yachts crowding the waters outside Monaco came
into view, Thompson pointed out the  Nero , a 90-meter boat listed
for sale at 60 million euros and styled to resemble J. Pierpont Morgan’s Corsair. There was also the  Cakewalk , the largest boat
to come out of a U.S. shipyard in three-quarters of a century,
listed at $192 million.  “The thing about yachts is that no one needs them,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net 
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  