-- Telenor Predicts Fivefold Myanmar Wireless Surge
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   L a r s   K l e m m i n g
-- 2013-09-30T08:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/telenor-predicts-fivefold-myanmar-wireless-surge.html
Telenor ASA (TEL)  Chief Executive Officer
Jon Fredrik Baksaas said mobile-phone subscriptions in Myanmar,
a new market for the wireless carrier, will surge more than
fivefold to about half of the population by the end of 2017.  Telenor, the Nordic region’s  largest phone company  and one
of two operators selected to build Myanmar’s telecommunications
network, expects the license to be issued formally by the end of
the year, Baksaas said. Services will start eight to nine months
after that, he said in an interview in Singapore Sept. 28.  “Penetration figures will grow from presently below 10
percent to a very visible figure in a very short time,” Baksaas
said. “We shouldn’t be far away from 50 percent penetration
already three years down the line.”  Telenor, based in Fornebu near Oslo, is seeking growth in
 Russia ,  India  and other parts of  Asia  as competition intensifies
at home. Myanmar selected Telenor and Ooredoo QSC of Qatar in
June, opening up one of the world’s last remaining untapped
markets. The expansion in Myanmar will boost Telenor’s sales by
7 percent to 8 percent in 2020, according to an August estimate
by Swedbank AB. Baksaas declined to give financial targets for
the Myanmar investment.  Telenor and Ooredoo beat nine other bidders including
 Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) , billionaire  George Soros  and
Bharti Airtel Ltd. in the final stage. The licenses allow the
carriers to run a nationwide wireless network serving Myanmar’s
about 59 million people for 15 years. The license term will
start when the license is formally issued, said Baksaas, who
joined Telenor in 1989 and has been its CEO for 11 years.  Mobile Banking  Myanmar, which is a “cash society,” will benefit from the
ability to use mobile phones for financial transactions such as
money transfers when they become available, said Baksaas, who
was in Singapore between visiting Myanmar and  Thailand , where
the company controls  Total Access Communications Pcl. (DTAC)   “This is a population which does not have access to
financial services the way we know them,” he said. “The
digitalization of cash handling has happened through banks in
general but the mobile phone takes it to the next layer.”  Telenor’s unit in  Pakistan  now handles $2.5 billion of
transfers annually on a rolling basis, compared with $1.2
billion last year, Baksaas said. Of 35 million customers in
Pakistan, 6 million regularly use financial services, he said.  “These are all people with no access to any bank or any
financial services before,” Baksaas said. “So suddenly the
mobile phone stands out as a distribution mechanism for funds,
as well as a collection or transfer mechanism for funds, and it
will facilitate money from one part of the country to another
part of the country.”  ‘Attractive Growth’  Separately, Telenor also announced joint ventures with
 Schibsted ASA (SCH)  and Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. for online
classified advertisements in  South America  and Asia. Telenor
will pay about 145 million euros ($196 million) for its stakes
in the ventures, it said in a statement today.  Telenor fell 1.5 percent to 137 kroner at 10:21 a.m. in
Oslo. The stock had  gained  24 percent this year through
yesterday, giving Telenor a market value of 211 billion kroner.  “Telenor remains one of those rare attractive growth
stories in the sector, although the growth profile is becoming
more challenged,” said Barry Zeitoune, an analyst at Berenberg
in  London , who recommends holding the stock. “Telenor’s entry
into Myanmar is as expected, and Telenor has vast greenfield
rollout experience in Asia.”  Baksaas, 58, said the network in Myanmar will rely more on
solar power than any of its  other grids , both out of necessity
and to achieve energy savings.  “This is very important because energy is scarce,” he
said. “We need energy on every base station and there is no
grid in the countryside, which means that we have to establish
and build energy capacities ourselves.”  Solar Grid  Telenor has about 1,500 base stations powered by solar
energy in Pakistan and  Bangladesh , Baksaas said.  “We will probably see a network built out in Myanmar with
the highest degree of solar panels that we’ve seen,” he said.
“My vision for the future is basically that a base station can
be energy neutral.”  Solar energy and batteries to store the energy is
complemented by diesel generators, he said.  When asked about expansion opportunities, Baksaas said
Telenor’s management will focus on building out the Myanmar
operations and integrating Globul, the second-largest mobile
carrier in  Bulgaria  that Telenor agreed to buy in April for 717
million euros.  “We have no specific focus over and beyond the two new
countries that come into the Telenor group in 2013,” Baksaas
said, referring to Myanmar and Bulgaria. “This is our focus and
this has to do with the management attention, the board
attention and the overall capacity of the group.”  Outpacing Rivals  The company is also expanding its footprint through
VimpelCom Ltd., Russia’s third-largest wireless carrier and a
service provider in other former Soviet countries, Italy and
 Africa . Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman  controls VimpelCom,
with Telenor holding a minority stake.  The assets in faster-growing regions such as Asia have
helped Telenor outpace Nordic competitors including  Sweden ’s
 TeliaSonera AB. (TLSN)  The Norwegian company’s sales rose about 2
percent in the second quarter, compared with a 4 percent drop at
TeliaSonera. Telenor is also reducing costs and expanding its
Nordic wireless network to fend off local competitors such as
Sweden’s Tele2 AB and Denmark’s TDC A/S.  This month, Telenor reiterated its goal of 5 billion kroner
in cost savings and operating cash flow of 28 billion kroner to
30 billion kroner in 2015.  “Telenor’s expansion and asset base is significantly more
attractive and more diverse versus that of the Nordic
incumbents,” said Daniel Johansson, an analyst at Fondsfinans
ASA in Oslo with a buy rating on the shares. “Risks are more
balanced for Telenor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming in Singapore at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  