-- Employers Probably Stepped Up Hiring: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-09-29T04:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/employers-probably-stepped-up-hiring-u-s-economy-preview.html
Employers probably added more jobs
in September than the prior month and the U.S.  jobless rate  held
at the lowest level since 2008, indicating progress in the labor
market will help sustain growth, economists said before a report
this week.  Payrolls rose by 180,000 workers, the most since April,
after a 169,000 gain the prior month, according to the median
forecast of 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Labor
Department figures due Oct. 4. Manufacturing grew in August at
close to the fastest pace in two years, separate data may show.  The  unemployment rate  remains elevated, according to
 Federal Reserve  policy makers, who this month said they need
evidence of more progress in the expansion before deciding to
scale back record monetary stimulus. Faster growth in employment
and wages would help spur household spending, the largest part
of the economy, and generate more orders for businesses.  “Payrolls will rise in the same range as the past few
months,” said  John Silvia , chief economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “The labor market
is making progress, but it’s not enough. The economy is moving
along at a slow pace.”  The projected gain in September payrolls would still be
below the average 195,000 monthly increase in the first half of
2013. Through August, the U.S. had recovered 6.8 million of the
8.7 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month recession that
ended in June 2009.  The  jobless rate , derived from a separate Labor Department
survey of households than the payrolls tally, held for a second
month at 7.3 percent, the lowest in more than four years,
according to the Bloomberg survey. The rate declined in August
as more people left the  labor force .  Holiday Hiring  Retailers have begun announcing plans to add workers for
the  holiday shopping season .  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, is hiring 55,000 seasonal employees, a 10
percent rise from last year. The company also will move 35,000
to full-time status from part-time, and another 35,000 to part-time from temporary.  Kohl’s Corp. (TGT)  will hire about 53,000 workers for the holiday
season, about the same as last year.  Holiday hiring by U.S. retailers may fall about 6.9 percent
this year as weak  consumer confidence  and more efficient store
practices reduce demand for seasonal workers, according to
Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc.  Target Corp. plans to take on about 70,000 workers, or 20
percent fewer than a year earlier.  Federal Reserve  Fed policy makers at their Sept. 17-18 meeting unexpectedly
refrained from trimming the $85 billion pace of monthly bond
buying, saying that a recent rise in market interest rates
threatened to curb the expansion.  The central bank left unchanged its outlook that the target
interest rate will remain near zero “at least as long as” the
unemployment rate exceeds 6.5 percent, so long as the outlook
for inflation is no higher than 2.5 percent, according to its
statement.  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said at a press conference after the meeting.  Companies paring their workforce include  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
the biggest U.S. mortgage lender. The San Francisco-based bank
will eliminate about 1,800 more jobs in its home-loan production
business, in addition to 3,000 reductions announced earlier in
the third quarter. Citigroup Inc., the fifth-biggest U.S.
mortgage originator last year, is cutting about 1,000 jobs in
its home-lending business.  Auto Sales  An 18.6 percent gain in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index
this year and rising home values are boosting wealth and
underpinning  consumer spending . One bright spot is  automobile
sales , which rose in August at the strongest pace since November
2007, according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group. Purchases
of other durable goods are also helping to sustain
 manufacturing. (NAPMPMI)   The Institute for Supply Management Inc.’s  factory index ,
due on Oct. 1, eased to 55.1 in September after the prior
month’s 55.7 reading that was the strongest since June 2011,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. Fifty is the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  Two days later, the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM group will
release its  services gauge , which covers almost 90 percent of
the economy. The measure fell to 57 in September from 58.6,
which was the strongest reading since December 2005, economists
projected.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  