-- Mercuria Gas Bet Shows Traders See Gains in Freer Romania Market
-- B y   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-09-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/mercuria-gas-bet-shows-traders-see-gains-in-freer-romania-market.html
Mercuria Energy Trading SA’s
investment in a Romanian energy producer shows how traders are
looking to benefit from the country’s emergence as a natural gas
exporter in a less-regulated Eastern European market.  The $50 million stake in Amromco Energy places the trading
house in a region where gas prices are rising and government
controls are easing to meet the European Union’s demands for
liberalization. Mercuria joins Vitol SA, the world’s biggest
independent trader, in buying into the country as it prepares
for exports that will ease  Russia ’s grip on energy supplies to
its former satellites.  “There are significant opportunities within those Eastern
bloc energy and power markets which are going through a phase of
liberalization,” said  Matthew Gray , an analyst with Jefferies
LLC in  London . Mercuria would be well-positioned if  Romania 
becomes a gas exporter. “It’s a case of first-mover
advantage.”  Mercuria, the fourth-largest energy trader, bought a $50
million minority equity stake in Houston-based Amromco Energy,
the biggest independent oil and gas producer in Romania, the
companies said in a statement Sept. 23. Amromco and Geneva-based
Mercuria will also set up a commodities-marketing venture in
Romania.  Mercuria is entering the market as Romania plans to raise
gas prices for industry by 11 percent and by 8 percent to 10
percent for consumers by the end of this year, according to the
energy regulator. The move is part of a pledge to fully
liberalize gas markets and to spur foreign investment.  Black Sea  Exxon Mobil Corp. and partner OMV Petrom SA have said they
will invest several billion dollars in Romania’s Neptun block in
the  Black Sea , where it made last year’s  Domino-1  discovery. The
find showed potential output at about 630 million cubic feet a
day, or more than half Romania’s daily production last year. The
find is so substantial it “will probably secure our total
energy independence from 2018” and allow gas exports to the
region, Prime Minister Victor Ponta said in July.  Romania will be capable of exporting to  Hungary  via the
Arad-Szeged pipeline by December, Transgaz SA, the country’s
grid operator, said on its website.  Closely held Amromco has already started “virtual”
exports by swapping contracts with buyers in Hungary, Rob
Kendall, Amromco’s executive vice president, said by phone from
Houston on Sept. 24.  Amromco, producing about 25 million cubic feet equivalent
per day, accounts for about 3 percent of Romania’s gas
production, a share expected to rise to 5 percent as new
projects come online.  Joint Venture  Romania’s energy output is dominated by state-owned Romgaz
SA and Petrom, controlled by Austria’s OMV. The government has
said it will sell 15 percent of Romgaz in an initial public
offering slated for November.  Amromco has had a joint-venture agreement with Romgaz since
2003 and recently purchased three  oil fields  from Petrom in
northeastern Romania.  Vitol, which holds 16.1 percent of  Sterling Resources Ltd. (SLG) ,
in May abandoned plans for a takeover bid of the Calgary-based
explorer with assets in Romania and the U.K.  Vitol recently opened an office in Bucharest and won a
license to trade power in Romania, Andrea Schlaepfer, a company
spokeswoman, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net  