-- Etisalat Extends Talks With Vivendi on Maroc Telecom
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-09-30T07:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/etisalat-extends-talks-with-vivendi-on-offer-for-maroc-telecom.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) ,
the Abu Dhabi-based phone operator, agreed to extend talks with
Vivendi SA on a planned purchase of the French company’s stake
in Maroc Telecom SA for 4.2 billion euros ($5.7 billion).  The exclusivity period to acquire the 53 percent stake in
the Moroccan phone company was extended until Oct. 31, the
company known as Etisalat said yesterday in a  statement  to the
Abu Dhabi stock exchange. The previous deadline was Sept. 25.  Vivendi, bowing to investor pressure to overhaul its
structure, is conducting a study to separate its French phone
unit SFR and assemble the rest of its businesses into a new
international media group based in  France . Selling its
telecommunications assets is a key part of Vivendi’s plans to
transform into a new entity built around music, pay-TV, European
cinema and Internet in  Brazil .  The Maroc Telecom deal, expected to be finalized around the
end of the year according to  Vivendi, (VIV)  may be concluded by mid-November, Moroccan Foreign Affairs Minister Saad-Eddine El
Othmani told reporters in Dubai this month.  The companies agreed to exclusive talks in July after
Etisalat’s bid valued the stake at 3.9 billion euros, or 92.6
Moroccan dirhams per share. Etisalat also offered to pay 310
million euros for a dividend that Vivendi was set to receive
from Maroc Telecom.  A deal would give Etisalat control over the largest mobile
carrier in  Morocco . Etisalat said it has commitments from a
syndicate of local and international banks to finance the bid.  Activision Blockage  “Signing and closing of the transaction would be subject
to a number of conditions,” Etisalat said in yesterday’s
statement. They include shareholders agreement and obtaining
competition and regulatory approvals, it said.  Vivendi slipped 0.7 percent to 17.02 euros at 9:31 a.m. in
Paris. Etisalat rose 0.4 percent to 11.65 dirhams in  Abu Dhabi .
The stock has climbed 28 percent this year, compared with a 46
percent advance for the benchmark  ADX General Index. (ADSMI)   Vivendi is also divesting its stake in video-game maker
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  Activision in July announced it would
buy back $5.83 billion of its shares from its French parent,
while a group including the unit’s director and top executive
will pay $2.34 billion to buy more stock from Vivendi.  Vivendi is selling assets ahead of a final decision on a
new structure early next year and expects to take plans to
shareholders at its next annual meeting in the first half.  Divestments will leave Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou with
control of SFR as well as music company  Universal Music Group ,
pay-television unit Canal Plus and Brazilian broadband provider
GVT, as well as a reduced debt level. Taking into account asset
disposals including Maroc Telecom and Activision, Vivendi’s net
debt will drop to 6.5 billion euros from 17.4 billion euros as
of June 30, the company said in August.  Vivendi shares have gained 9.9 percent during the past 12
months, valuing the company at 23 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  