-- Letta Aide Sees Berlusconi’s Challenge Undermined
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-09-30T15:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/letta-defies-berlusconi-as-italian-government-nears-collapse.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s deputy finance chief expressed confidence in overcoming
Silvio Berlusconi’s challenge, saying the former premier’s
faction in parliament is splintering.  “In Berlusconi’s party, there are a number of parliament
members responsible enough to understand the serious
consequences of a crisis,” Deputy Finance Minister Stefano Fassina said today in an interview with Francine Lacqua on
Bloomberg Television. “We are confident that we will have the
strength for continuing with Letta’s government.”  Letta said last night that he’ll seek backing from the
Parliament in  Rome  this week to try to save his five-month-old
administration after Berlusconi, a partner in the ruling
coalition, withdrew his support. Underscoring how fluid the
situation is, Letta won’t make a decision on calling a
confidence vote until after an Oct. 2 debate in the lower house,
newswire Radiocor reported today, citing no one.  A report by Reuters that as many as 20 senators of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty, or PDL, are ready to form a
breakaway group if the ex-premier doesn’t back down on his
confrontation with Letta was denied by Deborah Bergamini, a
member of the lower house from the party. “I don’t have
evidence of any defections,” she said in a phone interview.  The rift between Letta and Berlusconi, a three-time prime
minister, has rattled the financial markets. Italian bonds
declined for a third day, pushing the 10-year yield up 3 basis
points to 4.45 percent at 3:30 p.m. in Rome today. That
increased the difference with German bunds to 266 basis points.
The country’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index fell 1.6 percent.  ’High’ Volatility  The end of the Letta-Berlusconi partnership “should keep
volatility on the Italian government securities market high,”
Fabio Fois, an analyst with  Barclays Plc (BARC) , said in a research
report.  Adding to the turmoil in  Italy ’s establishment,  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the country’s second-biggest bank, said yesterday
that its chief executive officer resigned. Milan-based  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe also plans to
tender his resignation this week after losing the support of the
company’s biggest shareholders, a person with knowledge of the
matter said last week.  Berlusconi, the 77-year-old billionaire whose legal
troubles have him facing expulsion proceedings in the Italian
Senate, announced his ministers’ withdrawal on Sept. 28, when
markets were closed.  Letta needs 24 votes in the Senate to secure a new majority
without Berlusconi,  Corriere Della Sera  reported. To do so, the
47-year-old premier must win over opposition lawmakers or
convince members of the PDL to abandon their leader.  No ’Slim Majority’  Letta’s plan to appeal to lawmakers won an endorsement
yesterday from President Giorgio Napolitano, who is responsible
for calling snap elections if parliament is deadlocked.
Napolitano, 88, said dissolving parliament is the option of last
resort, Ansa reported, citing the president in Naples.  “We don’t want to go on with a very slim majority,”
Fassina, a member of Letta’s  Democratic Party , said in the
interview. He added that he expects the government to have the
backing of a “majority strong enough to keep going with
reforms.”  PDL lawmakers will be Letta’s main target audience.  “In the end it’s all up to the PDL,” Letta said late
yesterday in an interview televised on state broadcaster RAI.
“I think there’s a deep debate taking place within the PDL.”  Italian Turmoil  Political turmoil has plagued Italy, the world’s third-biggest debtor after the U.S. and  Japan , throughout the euro
financial crisis. Berlusconi, forced out in 2011, brought down
his successor,  Mario Monti , in December 2012. Parliament,
elected in February, has been incapable of enacting an economic
program to pull Italy from its two-year recession.  “There is scope for Italy to endure a repeat of the
intense financial turmoil that occurred in late 2011,”  Raj Badiani , principal IHS Global Insight economist for Italy, said
in a research report. “A major difference this time is the
conditional ECB bond-buying plan.”  Berlusconi’s call to exit the government was heeded by
Deputy Prime Minister  Angelino Alfano , who said Sept. 28 that
all five ministers from the PDL were stepping down. Letta’s
office confirmed today that the resignations of Alfano, Health
Minister Beatrice Lorenzin, Constitutional Reforms Minister
Gaetano Quagliariello, Agriculture Minister Nunzia De Girolamo
and Transport Minister Maurizio Lupi were “irrevocable,”
according to a statement.  Letta’s Options  The survival of Letta’s premiership depends on his ability
to forge unity from a fragmented Italian parliament for a second
time this year. Letta ended nearly two months of gridlock in
April by convincing his Democratic Party, the biggest force in
parliament, to embrace an alliance with the PDL. He may be
forced to focus on PDL defectors as Beppe Grillo’s Five Star
Movement, the biggest opposition party, has refused to ally
itself with other parties.  “A return to the polls in the short run is not a foregone
conclusion,”  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst at Teneo Intelligence
in  London , said yesterday in a research report. “The situation
is very fluid and prone to further surprises, especially as the
next crucial phase will take place in parliament.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  