-- Gangnam-Style Nip and Tuck Draws Tourists to Seoul’s Beauty Belt
-- B y   H e e s u   L e e
-- 2013-09-29T22:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/gangnam-style-nip-and-tuck-draws-tourists-to-seoul-s-beauty-belt.html
Kylie Vu holds up a photo of her
favorite South Korean actress on her iPhone and points.  “I want a chin like hers,” she tells a beauty consultant
at the BK  Plastic Surgery  clinic in Seoul’s upscale Gangnam
district. Vu, 30, budgeted as much as $10,000 for a chin implant
and face-lift after traveling 2,700 kilometers (1,680 miles)
from Vietnam, where she manages five kindergartens.  The number of tourists visiting South Korea for cosmetic
surgery has increased more than fivefold since 2009 to 15,428
last year, the health ministry says. Many, including Vu, visit
the so-called beauty belt of hundreds of clinics clustered
around subway stations in Gangnam, the setting for South Korean
singer Psy’s “Gangnam Style.”  The trend is helping the government’s aim to add about
20,000 jobs, mainly nurses and interpreters, in the medical
 tourism industry  over the next four years. At BK Plastic
Surgery, in a 15-story building with other clinics, 16 surgeons
are supported by 30 interpreters speaking languages including
Japanese, Mandarin, Cantonese and Vietnamese.  “It’s worth the trip,” Vu said as she prepared for a
makeover modeled on Kim Tae Hee, the current marketing face of
 LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  refrigerators and lead actress in “Love
Story in Harvard,” a Korean drama. “South Korea’s plastic
surgery is known to be the best in the world.”  ‘Staggering Demand’  The number of foreigners having surgery has soared as
domestic acceptance of the industry grows, Kim Byung Gun, head
of BK Plastic Surgery, said in an interview. Thirty-two percent
of respondents to a Seoul city government poll in 2011 said they
are willing to undergo cosmetic surgery, compared with 21.5
percent who said the same in 2009.  “I’ve had patients from China and  Japan  since the late
1990s,” Kim said. “It’s grown more rapidly since, because of
the staggering demand for plastic surgery among Koreans.”  Estimating the size of the industry is difficult because
 South Korea ’s national health insurance doesn’t cover aesthetic
surgery. A total of 649,938 cosmetic procedures were performed
in South Korea in 2011, according to the  International Society
of Aesthetic Surgery , equivalent to 13 procedures for every
1,000 people -- the most in the world.  The government has played a part in promoting the industry
overseas, while larger clinics also began to tailor packages to
foreigners, according to Seul Chul Hwan, head of JW Plastic
Surgery in Gangnam, which employs 10 consultants who can
communicate in English, Mandarin, Russian, Thai, Vietnamese and
Indonesian. About 30-40 percent of JW’s patients are from
abroad, Seul said in an interview.  All-inclusive Packages  Services often include a multilingual website, e-mail and
video consultations, accommodation and airport pickups.  Plastic surgery trips cost a minimum 15 million won
($14,000), according to Lee Joon, marketing director at  Seoul
TouchUp , a travel agency that books hospitals, accommodation and
sightseeing trips in all-inclusive packages.  South Korea wasn’t the first choice for Christian
Philippone, 35, who flew to  Seoul  from  Australia  for three
procedures: a chin implant, liposuction to remove neck fat and
rhinoplasty, a procedure using cartilage or artificial materials
including Gore-Tex, to straighten his nose. He requested the
spelling of his surname be altered to protect his privacy.  The travel and surgeries altogether cost about the same as
Australia and more than  Thailand , which he considered before
settling on South Korea on the advice of a friend, he said,
without giving details.  K-pop Culture  Growing interest in Korean pop culture is a major factor
drawing medical tourists from  Asia , even at higher cost than
having the surgery at home, Kim at BK Plastic Surgery said.
Whereas Koreans typically request operations to westernize their
appearances, patients from Asian countries want the features of
Korean celebrities, while Americans and Europeans usually have
reduction surgeries, he said.  For Vu, carrying an Hermes handbag and wearing a bracelet
of the same brand, her trip is a chance to redo a chin implant
she first had done in  Vietnam , this time in a more K-pop style.  Michelle Lim, a student from  Malaysia , spent three weeks in
July choosing a clinic in the beauty belt for jaw reduction and
liposuction after being inspired by the smaller, so-called v-shaped faces of Korean celebrities, the 24 year-old said in an
interview. Lim, who traveled to Korea with her mother, requested
her first name be changed to protect her privacy.  YouTube Phenomenon  Psy’s “Gangnam Style” referred to Seoul’s luxury retail
district and featured satirical lyrics about the habits of
wealthy South Koreans. The video for the song is the  most-watched  on YouTube with more than 1.78 billion views.  South  Korea ’s government hopes to attract 500,000 medical
tourists to the country by 2017, up from 203,063 last year, of
which 7.6 percent came for plastic surgery. The Korea Tourism
Organization estimated medical tourism revenue last year was 487
billion won ($453 million), triple the amount in 2009. Total
inbound tourism revenue last year was $14 billion, according to
the group.  Gangnam, the destination for more than 20 percent of all
medical tourists to South Korea, opened a tour center in July to
help tourists choose accredited hospitals.  The government has also cracked down on hospitals that work
with unregistered tourism agencies to improve safety, while the
state-run Human Resources Development Service of Korea created a
qualification exam for medical tour operators.  Risks of traveling too soon after surgery include pulmonary
embolism and blood clots, according to the  American Society of
Plastic Surgeons .  None of which is putting off Kylie Vu, who was planning to
stay in Seoul for four days. “I’ll probably be back in Korea in
six months to get another face-lift,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heesu Lee in Seoul at 
 hlee425@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net  