-- Germany Sets Coalition Talks Date as Weeks of Bartering Loom
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-09-30T11:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/germany-readies-for-weeks-of-coalition-talks-as-parties-position.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
party said it will hold exploratory talks with the Social
Democrats at the end of the week as each side dug in for the
prospect of months of negotiations to form a government.  As the threat of renewed crisis in the euro area emanating
from  Italy  raised pressure for an agreement, senior members of
Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union meeting in Berlin today
announced that talks would be convened at 1 p.m. on Oct. 4. The
CDU backing follows the SPD’s decision at the end of last week
to enter into exploratory negotiations with its main rival.  “There are big differences with the SPD, but we’re also
able to compromise,” Volker Bouffier, the Christian Democratic
premier of the western state of Hesse and a CDU vice chairman,
told reporters before his party met today.  After a first step toward a coalition with Merkel’s bloc,
the Social Democrats began positioning over the weekend to
extract policy concessions and cabinet posts. German President
Joachim Gauck has invited party leaders for meetings this week
to help the push to form a new government.  “We’ll have a very challenging schedule,”  Carsten Brzeski , chief economist at ING-Diba AG, said in an interview.
The length of the talks may affect the schedule for euro-area
projects such as a banking union and bailout decisions regarding
Greece and Portugal that must come by year end, he said. He also
cited the risk that “the whole thing fails” if the SPD
membership rejects a coalition agreement.  Reunification Anniversary  A week after Merkel won a third term in the best election
result for a political party since German reunification -- 23
years ago this week -- SPD members signaled their reluctance
about being overshadowed by the popular chancellor. The talks
could further complicate European policy making as a teetering
Italian government highlights risks in delaying decisions on
overcoming the debt crisis.  The SPD’s general-secretary, Andrea Nahles, asked about a
time frame for a party membership vote, speculated that
negotiations could stretch into next year.  “All of this could very well take longer anyway,” Nahles
told reporters at the party’s headquarters in Berlin. “Whether
we end up with a finalized coalition in December or January,
nobody is able to say at the moment.”  Wealth Tax  Germany ’s SPD, which won 25.7 percent of the vote in the
Sept. 22 election compared with 41.5 percent for Merkel’s CDU-led bloc,  voted Sept. 27  to open preliminary talks with their
main opponent. A second meeting of about 200 SPD delegates will
be required to open coalition talks officially.  The German Finance Ministry dismissed a report in Der
Spiegel this weekend that Wolfgang Schaeuble plans to propose an
increase in the wealth tax in an appeal to the SPD. Schaeuble
later told Bild newspaper that he sees “no reason” to raise
taxes, adhering to the party’s campaign pledge.  Voters “have my word” that taxes won’t go up, Horst Seehofer, chairman of the Merkel-allied Bavarian Christian
Social Union, was cited as saying in  Bild .  Media reports also emerged about the shape of a new
cabinet. The SPD may demand six posts, with parliamentary whip
Thomas Oppermann at the Finance Ministry and SPD Chairman Sigmar Gabriel replacing Ursula von der Leyen as labor minister, the
Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung reported, without saying
where it got the information.  Gauck took the unorthodox step of requesting one-on-one
meetings with party leaders at the Bellevue presidential palace
in Berlin to gauge the path forward, the Sueddeutsche reported.
Gauck has the authority to call new elections should talks fail.  ‘No Fear’  The SPD campaigned on raising the income tax for top
earners, establishing a nationwide minimum hourly wage of 8.50
euros ($11.48) and putting in place rent controls. Gabriel said
on Sept. 27 that the party has “no fear” of remaining in
opposition or facing new elections.  Any coalition agreement would be put to a ballot among the
party’s broader membership, Gabriel said. The party is holding a
conference in Leipzig Nov. 14-16, when it could potentially
ratify any agreement to enter a grand coalition with Merkel.  Hermann Groehe, the CDU’s general secretary, said his party
was also open to talks with the Greens, whom he praised for
moving away from positions “to the left of the SPD” while
saying that the plan remained to talk first to the Social
Democrats. Merkel will mark reunification day on Oct. 3 in
Baden-Wuerttemberg, the state which is ruled by Germany’s only
Green prime minister, Winfried Kretschmann.  Negotiating Team  “The point of departure for the talks is our governing
program,” the CDU’s caucus chairman, Volker Kauder, told
yesterday’s  Welt am Sonntag . “The SPD is not the winner of the
election. The voters want CDU policy.”  Merkel will lead the CDU into his week’s talks, alongside
her chief of staff, Ronald Pofalla, plus Schaeuble, Groehe,
Kauder, Bouffier and Stanislaw Tillich, Saxony’s premier, Die
Welt reported today. The SPD will send in Gabriel, Nahles,
caucus leader Frank-Walter Steinmeier, defeated chancellor
candidate  Peer Steinbrueck , Hamburg Mayor Olaf Scholz and
Hannelore Kraft, the prime minster of North Rhine-Westphalia.  “Exploratory talks serve to give a sense of how much time
both sides consider to be appropriate,” Groehe said. “We need
to work quickly and thoroughly,” he said. “We don’t have an
unlimited amount of time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  