-- Gladwell Tells Us Stuff Only Dummies Don’t Know: Books
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-09-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/gladwell-tells-us-stuff-only-dummies-don-t-know-books.html
In “ David and Goliath ,”  Malcolm Gladwell  delves into important ideas about power and
accomplishment. He contends that children faced with difficult
obstacles, such as dyslexia or the loss of a parent, often
develop skills that make them successes later in life.  He maintains that great force is not always enough to
overcome courage and determination -- in the case, for example,
of southern racists versus black civil-rights workers in the
1960s, or the British government versus Northern Irish Catholics
in the 1970s.  Wait a second. Is there someone who doesn’t already know
those things?  Of course not, and to read “David and Goliath” is to suffer
the discomfort of watching a formidably intelligent author
flailing -- by citing all manner of social-scientific studies
and battering us with charts and tables and graphs -- to prove
something that no one would disagree with in the first place.  But what, exactly, has he proved? That some individuals and
some groups are exceptional? Oh. As he points out himself,
childhood hardship isn’t anything close to a guarantor of
success: “There are a remarkable number of dyslexics in prison.”  French Resistance  He closes his final section, “The Limits of Power,” with a
chapter on Andre Trocme, a French pastor who sheltered Jews and
successfully (in that he wasn’t killed) stood up to the Nazis.
 Gladwell  explains that his town was a Huguenot stronghold that
developed its nerve over centuries of conflict with the Catholic
authorities.  But that’s cherry-picking, since there were (a) many more
instances of non-Huguenot resistance and (b) countless examples
of courageous resistance crushed by the Nazis.  Going into any fight, the odds are on Goliath’s side. But
of course he won’t win every time. Gladwell is looking for
something like a general theory of courage -- a fascinating
topic, but one for philosophers, not social scientists.  He’s most entertaining when he’s being counterintuitive, as
when he cites studies showing that smaller classes aren’t
necessarily good for school kids.  Even with credible research to point to, though, I predict
he’s going to get pushback to his argument that making it into
an Ivy League school is a stroke of bad luck because so many
good students get discouraged in the company of better ones.  Drug Cocktail  The further I read into “David and Goliath,” the more
irritated I got. I wasn’t persuaded there was much of a subject
there, but what really bugged me was the tone. Consider this
description of a brave doctor’s (at the time) revolutionary idea
of combining two or three toxic cancer drugs into a “cocktail”:  “They each attacked cancer cells in different ways. They
were like the army and the navy. Maybe the cells that survived
6-MP would be killed by methotrexate. And what if they added
prednisone into the mix? It could be the  air force , bombing from
the air while the other drugs attacked from the land and sea.”  That’s an eye roller, but I don’t want to sound finicky
about one banal metaphor. Even the finest stylists sometimes
produce slack sentences, and Gladwell’s prose seldom has
anything to apologize for. It’s the patronizing way in which the
argument is framed, here and throughout the book.  Maybe that’s an all-too-foreseeable trap for a professional
explainer whose usual method is to seek out experts and then
translate their findings for us.  But in the past I’ve always felt flattered by Gladwell’s
writing. I like having things explained to me. But I don’t like
being talked down to by someone who’s telling me things I
already know.  “David and Goliath: Underdogs, Misfits and the Art of
Battling Giants” is published by Little, Brown in the U.S. and
 Allen Lane  in the U.K. (305 pages, $29, 16.99 pounds). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Mark Beech 
on music.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 