-- Golden Dawn Lawmaker Pappas Surrenders Himself to Police
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-09-29T15:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/golden-dawn-lawmaker-pappas-surrenders-himself-to-greek-police.html
Christos Pappas, a lawmaker and the
parliamentary spokesman of the nationalist Golden Dawn party,
turned himself in to police today after a warrant was issued for
his arrest yesterday.  “I’ve come voluntarily, have nothing to fear and nothing
to hide,” Pappas told reporters in comments televised live on
Skai TV as he arrived at police headquarters in  Athens . “The
occupation coalition government of the memorandum is carrying
out an unprecedented persecution using a so-called independent
justice system.”  Pappas and five other Golden Dawn lawmakers who were
arrested yesterday, including the party’s leader Nikolaos Michaloliakos, are charged with participation in a criminal
organization, according to a statement on the Greek police
force’s website.  Authorities have stepped up pressure on the movement since
the death of a 34-year-old man, described by local media as an
anti-fascist rapper. Police said a Golden Dawn supporter
confessed to the Sept. 18 killing, which was followed by police
raids on the group’s offices and a judicial probe into whether
the party can be banned or characterized as a criminal gang to
limit its activities.  Golden Dawn, which denied any involvement in the Sept. 18
killing, has 18 lawmakers in  Greece ’s 300-seat parliament. Polls
suggest that while backing for the anti-immigrant political
movement has fallen since the killing, it is still the country’s
third-most popular party. Voter support for the group fell to
6.8 percent from 9.1 percent in June, an MRB poll published
today showed.  The party, which includes officials who have expressed
admiration for Adolf Hitler, got 7 percent of the vote in the
June 2012 elections, tapping into a vein of protest and anger
against record unemployment that has accompanied a recession now
in its sixth year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  