-- Golf Balls Fall Short Coping With 21st Century Disasters
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y ,   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-09-29T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/golf-balls-fall-short-coping-with-21st-century-disasters.html
Diaper liner, sawdust, golf balls
and shredded tires -- these are some of the items used to try
and contain the oil and nuclear disasters that marked the end of
this century’s first decade and the start of the second.  Sawdust and absorbent polymer were employed to plug
radioactive water leaks at Japan’s Fukushima atomic station
after it was wrecked by an earthquake and tsunami in 2011.
Didn’t work.  BP Plc (BP/)  tried golf balls and rubber scrap in 2010 to
plug its Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico in what became the
biggest oil spill in U.S. history. Didn’t work, either.  Chucking diapers and golf balls at multibillion dollar
calamities shows methods to deal with failure are primitive at
best even as the global hunt for energy enters new frontiers of
risk. Disasters beyond the coping abilities of a single company
-- or even a country -- have prompted suggestions that a global
body with military-scale technical resources is needed.  “We need an international agency that specializes in stuff
like this,” Andrew DeWit, a professor of political economy at
 Tokyo ’s Rikkyo University, said in an interview. “World armies
and navies could form the basis for such a task force, being the
only organizations with the infrastructure and manpower to
cope.”  Rising demand for energy is pushing oil drillers into
remote and deeper waters from the Arctic and  Africa  to offshore
 Brazil . While nuclear power is falling out of favor in the U.S.
and Europe, earthquake-prone  China  is building 29 reactors, the
most of any country, to add to the 17 it already operates,
according to the World Nuclear Association.  Black Swans  “There’s more and more pressure to take risks, and when
you do, you are leaving yourself open to black swan events,”
said Gerald Graham, who assisted  Canada ’s response to the 1989
Exxon Valdez oil spill and runs Worldocean Consulting in
Victoria, British Columbia. “In extremely remote areas, the
risks become greater and the chances of a spill or blowout
increase.”  After a tsunami from the Japan quake knocked out power at
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima station, engineers resorted
to makeshift pumps and fire hoses to get water into the
overheating reactor cores in a failed attempt to prevent the
meltdown of three reactors. The radiation leaks forced the
evacuation of 160,000 people.  When BP’s leased Deepwater Horizon drilling rig exploded 40
miles (64 kilometers) off the Louisiana coast in the Gulf of
Mexico killing 11 workers, the company used so-called “junk
shots” of golf balls and scrap rubber in a failed attempt to
plug the 50-million barrel oil field.  Red Adair  Legendary oil-well firefighter Paul “Red” Adair used junk
shots to help extinguish Kuwaiti well fires set by Saddam
Hussein’s retreating troops in 1991. Yet Adair, depicted in John Wayne’s 1968 film “Hellfighters,” used the technique on land,
not almost a mile under the ocean.  Macondo gushed about 4.9 million barrels of crude into the
sea from April 20 till when it was capped on July 15 by a stack
of valves inserted over the top. The leak was finally sealed in
September by drilling a second well into Macondo to pump in mud
and concrete. The disaster will cost BP more than $40 billion in
cleanup costs and damages. London-based BP spokesman David
Nicholas declined to comment for this story.  “The risks are increasing rapidly as we go ever deeper,”
said Charles Perrow, a professor emeritus at Yale University who
studied the BP spill and  Japan  crisis as a specialist in
industrial accidents. “Really large disasters aren’t that
frequent, so preparing for them is difficult, almost an
afterthought.”  Three Continents  In the nuclear industry, the Fukushima meltdowns mean Asia
joins two of the world’s other continents as a site of a major
civil atomic accident. The others are the 1986 Chernobyl
disaster in the former Soviet Union and the partial reactor
meltdown at Three Mile Island in the U.S. in 1979.  Regulators have failed to require oil and gas explorers to
have sufficient plans to respond to crises, said Tina Hunter,
director of the Center for International Minerals and Energy Law
at the University of Queensland in Brisbane.  “We absolutely need an independent international body that
plays a leading role,” said Hunter, who has advised governments
on oil regulations and studied the BP disaster. “There need to
be new methods and new responses for new areas that should be
tested prior to full-scale exploration,” she said. “Until they
do that, they shouldn’t be drilling.”  Regulators and energy companies have taken steps to try to
avoid a repeat of the Macondo disaster.  Gulf Rules  Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
ConocoPhillips committed $1 billion to design a system to
contain deepwater spills in the Gulf. The group they formed,
Marine Well Containment Co., completed an initial system in 2011
and is developing technology for use in waters as deep as 10,000
feet, its website shows.  Marine Well Containment referred questions to Oil Spill
Response Ltd., an industry-owned group with more than 160
members ranging from  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  to  Tullow Oil Plc. (TLW) 
Oil Spill declined to comment on its activities in an e-mailed
response. It provides equipment and international support to
help companies respond to oil spills, according to its website.  Drilling regulations changed after Macondo as did rules on
maintenance and testing of equipment and blow-out preventers on
drilling rigs, said Kevin Robison, general manager of production
facilities at  Helix Energy Solutions (HLX) , which tackles oil spills
in the Gulf of Mexico.  “So all these variables are positive changes to make the
industry and drilling safer,” he said in a Sept. 20 phone
interview from Houston. Helix’s containment equipment should be
able to respond to a spill in a couple of days, he said.  Beyond Gulf  These efforts are mostly focused on the Gulf of Mexico,
where output from federal waters accounted for about  20 percent 
of U.S. oil production in 2012, and which has a massive energy
infrastructure and response capability.  Elsewhere problems can quickly cascade when accidents occur
in harsher, more remote areas, said Graham, the consultant in
Canada, who’s concerned the industry is focused more on
“putting out the last fire” than preparing for the next.  “It’s reached the point you have to ask yourself, ‘Are we
not testing fate a little too much?’” Graham said.  Environmental groups have criticized plans by companies
including Shell and  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  to explore the Arctic for oil
and gas, saying spills above the Arctic circle would be almost
impossible to clean up. The Hague-based Shell halted operations
off  Alaska  after accidents in 2012.  Russian Aid  In recognition of the growing risk, an international
conference for oil and gas regulators is scheduled for next
month in Perth, Western  Australia . The theme: preventing the
next “black swan, a large-scale event that is unforeseen and
potentially catastrophic,” according to the Australian
regulator’s website.  Before Fukushima, Chernobyl was ranked as the world’s worst
nuclear accident. Russia offered its experience from dealing
with Chernobyl to help Japan with the Fukushima calamity, said
Vladimir Asmolov, first deputy director general of
Rosenergoatom, the state-owned Russian nuclear utility. Talks
with Japan continue, said Asmolov, who added:  “In our globalized nuclear industry we don’t have national
accidents, they are all international.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  