-- Government Shutdown 1 Day Away as Deal Evades Lawmakers
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n ,   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-09-29T21:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/government-shutdown-1-day-away-as-deal-evades-lawmakers.html
Congress is leaving itself just one
day tomorrow to end a budget stalemate that raises the risk of
the first government shutdown in 17 years as Republicans sought
to shift blame for the gridlock to Democrats.  The Senate will reconvene tomorrow afternoon, when it will
reject a House plan passed early today to delay and limit
President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act. In response, the
House would add “another provision” to the spending measure
and send it back to the Senate, said Representative  Kevin McCarthy , the top House Republican vote counter.  The provision would “reflect the House” and would be one
“the Senate can accept,” McCarthy of  California  said on “Fox
News Sunday” without offering details.  A likely option would end the government’s contribution to
the health insurance of members of Congress and their staffs, as
a way of testing Democrats’ willingness to make any changes to
the health law, according to a leadership aide who spoke on
condition of anonymity to discuss party strategy.  House Republican leaders don’t expect to pass a bill that
only extends federal spending, or have enough Republicans who
support that, the aide said.  The House version of the spending measure would also delay
the start of the health law, which is known as Obamacare. No
talks were held today between House Republican and Senate
Democratic leaders, even at the staff level, said a Senate
Democratic aide who requested anonymity. A House Republican aide
confirmed there weren’t talks between House leaders and White
House officials.  Stocks Fall  Concerns that the budget impasse will hurt economic growth
helped push the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its first weekly
decline since August. The index fell 0.4 percent to 1,691.75 on
Sept. 27, and dropped 1.1 percent last week. The rate on 10-year
Treasury notes fell three basis points to 2.62 percent.
About 20  House Republicans  gathered today in front of the Senate
side of the U.S. Capitol and urged senators to return and take
up the spending bill. They accused Democrats of wanting a
shutdown to score political points.  “The Senate doors are shut, they are locked,” said
Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, the chairwoman of the
House Republican conference. “If the Senate doesn’t act, it may
be inevitable. Why are they waiting?”  Unless differences are resolved, as many as 800,000 federal
employees would be on furlough and national parks and Internal
Revenue Service call centers probably would close. Air-traffic
control and Social Security payments would continue.  Short Term  The latest House plan would authorize 10 weeks of spending
starting Oct. 1 only if much of the Obama health law is delayed
for a year.  The Senate tomorrow will remove the health-care provisions
and return to the House the same six-week spending measure it
approved last week, said three Senate Democratic aides, who
asked for anonymity to discuss plans.  “The House position, which is basically the same one they
sent us the last time, is going to be rejected again,” Senator
 Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-ranking
Democrat, said today on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” Asked if he
thought a government shutdown would occur, he said, “I’m afraid
I do.”  In a government shutdown, essential operations and programs
with dedicated funding would continue. A shutdown could reduce
fourth-quarter economic growth by as much as 1.4 percentage
points, depending on its duration, according to economists. The
biggest effect would come from the output lost from furloughed
workers.  Treasury Forecast  A brief government shutdown won’t lead to any significant
change of the Treasury Department’s forecast for when the U.S.
will breach the debt limit, a Treasury spokeswoman said today in
an e-mail. The Treasury has said measures to avoid breaching the
debt ceiling will be exhausted on Oct. 17.  The plan passed by the House today opened the second round
of volleys with the Senate. While House Republicans have moved
slightly off their position -- from defunding Obamacare to
delaying most of its provisions -- Democrats haven’t budged in
their support for the health law.  Senate Democrats said they will reject the any plan that
includes health-care provisions, and Obama said he would veto it
if passed by the Congress.  Texas Republican Senators  John Cornyn  and  Ted Cruz  said
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat, should call the
Senate into session today to consider the latest House proposal.  ‘On Vacation’  “There’s no reason the Senate should be home on
vacation,” Cruz, who last week spoke on the Senate floor for
more than 21 hours to protest the health care law, said today on
NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  The Senate can act quickly to pass legislation, if all 100
members agree. If a single member objects, it would block
legislation from being passed for four days or more.  With no official action today, the final chance to avert a
shutdown could be tomorrow evening, if the Senate turns down the
latest House plan, as Democrats promise to do.  At that point, House Speaker  John Boehner  would have four
main choices -- two of which avert a shutdown. He could pass the
Senate bill with mostly Democratic votes or attempt a short-term
funding extension to keep the government open past Oct. 1, when
fiscal year 2014 begins. The last government shutdown was in
1996.  The other two options lead to a shutdown. Boehner could add
health-law provisions to the spending bill and ask the Senate to
go along, which Senate Democratic leaders have said they’d
reject, or do nothing and wait for the political fallout.  Funding Gaps  The U.S. has had 17 funding gaps from 1977 to 1996, based
on a Congressional Research Service analysis. In 1995 and 1996,
interruptions lasted from Nov. 14 to Nov. 19 and from Dec. 16 to
Jan. 6, as Republicans led by then-House Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
clashed over the budget with President  Bill Clinton .  The latest House bill leaves intact some parts of the
health-care law already in effect, such as requirements
insurance companies cover people with pre-existing conditions
and that family plans cover children to age 26. The bill would
allow insurers to deny abortion coverage based on religious or
moral objections.  The House measure would delay a requirement for people to
purchase coverage or face a penalty, and postpone the creation
of marketplaces -- which are supposed to start functioning Oct.
1 -- where people could shop for coverage from private insurers.
Further, it would repeal the 2.3 percent medical device tax,
which would increase the U.S. deficit by about $29 billion
during the next decade.  Exchanges Open  The exchanges will be open in the event of a shutdown
because the 2010 law relies primarily on mandatory spending,
which congressional inaction can’t stop. It’s the budget
category used for benefits such as Medicare and Social Security.  Republicans and Democrats began bracing for a shutdown by
attempting to affix blame on the other side. It is at least the
fourth time in the past three years that lawmakers have taken a
budget battle to the brink of a fiscal crisis, each time
averting the worst-case scenario just before or after the
deadline.  “This has been the Congress of chronic chaos since day
one, and this is just another episode,” said Representative
Steve  Israel , a  New York  Democrat.  Boehner attempted to avoid this fight, offering a plan
earlier in September that wouldn’t have tied the health law,
which has become known as Obamacare, to the extension of
government funding.  Debt Ceiling  Instead he wanted to have what he called a “whale of a
fight” in October over raising the federal  debt ceiling . That
will be necessary by Oct. 31 at the latest to ensure the
government has enough money to pay its bills, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Tea Party-backed hardliners aligned with Cruz rejected
Boehner’s plan, insisting on the decisive battle that is
unfolding in the days leading up to Oct. 1, when insurance
exchanges open and allow uninsured Americans to enroll for
coverage in 2014.  “The American people deserve to have time to see what this
monstrosity will do before it is implemented,” said
Representative John Culberson, a Texas Republican. “We are
simply offering a compromise of a year’s delay.”  The vote early today on the one-year delay was mostly along
party lines, with Democrats Mike McIntyre of  North Carolina  and
 Jim Matheson  of  Utah  voting yes and Republicans Chris Gibson and
Richard Hanna, both of New York, voting no.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  