-- Rangers Face Rays for MLB Playoff Berth With Cruz Back From Ban
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/indians-seal-wild-card-spot-as-rangers-set-up-playoff-with-rays.html
The  Texas  Rangers will have
outfielder Nelson Cruz back from a 50-game suspension as they
host the Tampa Bay Rays in a winner-takes-all tiebreaker to
decide the American League’s final wild card playoff berth.  The Rangers and Rays both finished Major League Baseball’s
regular season with 91-71 records, one game behind the Cleveland
Indians in the race for the AL’s two wild card spots. Wild card
berths are given to the two non-division winners in each league
with the best records.  Texas closed the regular season with seven straight
victories, including a 6-2 win over the Los Angeles Angels
yesterday after the Rays had beaten the Toronto Blue Jays 7-6.
The Rangers host the Rays tonight at Rangers Ballpark in
Arlington, Texas, with the winner advancing to a one-game
playoff against the Indians two days later in Cleveland.  “We’re playing really good baseball, and the guys are
excited,” Cruz said yesterday in a statement from the Rangers.  Cruz was leading the Rangers with 27 home runs and 76 RBI
when he was suspended by MLB for the rest of the regular season
on Aug. 5 for his connection to Biogenesis of America LLC, the
Miami-area clinic accused of supplying players with banned
performance-enhancing drugs.  Rangers General Manager Jon Daniels said it will be manager
Ron  Washington ’s decision whether Cruz starts today’s game,
which is scheduled to begin at 8:07 p.m. New York time. Cruz
hasn’t played since Aug. 4, when he hit a home run in a win
against the Oakland Athletics.  Starting Pitchers  The Rays will start left-handed pitcher David Price, who
went 9-8 with a 3.39 earned-run-average this season after
winning last year’s AL Cy Young Award. Price is 1-2 with a 10.26
ERA in four career starts at Rangers Ballpark.  Cruz has a .429 batting average against Price, going 9-for-21 with three home runs and five runs batted in.  “He’s one of the game’s best pitchers, but for some reason
Cruz sees the ball well off Price,” said MLB Network analyst
and former All-Star reliever Dan Plesac. “He should, and
probably will, be in that lineup.”  The Rangers will counter with 22-year-old rookie left-hander Martin Perez, who is 10-5 with a 3.55 ERA in 19 starts
this season. He went 7-2 with a 3.05 ERA in his final 11 starts
of the regular season.  MLB’s last unscheduled tiebreaker was in 2009, when the
Minnesota Twins beat the Detroit Tigers 6-5 in 12 innings to win
the AL Central Division title. The previous year, the Twins lost
to the Chicago White Sox 1-0 the day after the end of the
regular season. In 2007, the Colorado Rockies topped the San
Diego Padres 9-8 in 13 innings to claim a playoff spot in the
163rd game of the season for both teams.  Indians’ Resurrection  The Indians clinched the first of the AL’s wild card spots
yesterday with a 5-1 win over the Twins. It was the 10th
straight victory for  Cleveland , which finished the regular
season with a 92-70 record after going 68-94 a year ago.  “To be a part of the resurrection -- 94 losses to 92 wins
-- this year has been so awesome,” said Nick Swisher, who
joined the Indians during the offseason after spending the four
previous years with the New York Yankees.  The winner of the AL wild-card game in Cleveland will
advance to a best-of-five-game series against the Boston Red Sox
(97-65), who have home-field advantage throughout the postseason
after finishing with the AL’s best record.  The Athletics meet the Detroit Tigers in the other AL
division series. Both are scheduled to start Oct. 4.  The Pittsburgh Pirates host the Cincinnati Reds on Oct. 1
in the National League’s wild card game. The winner advances to
face the St. Louis Cardinals two days later in the opener of a
best-of-five series.  The Atlanta Braves play the Los Angeles Dodgers in the
other NL division series, which starts Oct. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  