-- India-Pakistan Ties Reach ‘New Stage’ After Premiers Meet
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-09-30T07:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/india-pakistan-ties-reach-new-stage-after-premiers-meet.html
(Corrects date references in 13th and 16th paragraphs.)  India  and Pakistan took a step
forward on enforcing the cease-fire in Kashmir as prime
ministers Manmohan Singh and Nawaz Sharif met in New York, where
they are attending the United Nations General Assembly.  The leaders agreed that their military chiefs should meet
and investigate any attacks in disputed border regions in order
to prevent a recurrence, Pakistani Foreign Secretary Jalil Jilani told reporters after their one-hour breakfast meeting,
held three days after the latest deadly raid in Kashmir. Jilani
didn’t specify when the military officials will meet.  The two also invited each other to their respective
countries, Indian National Security Adviser Shivshankar Menon
said after yesterday’s meeting.  “We have actually achieved a new stage and now have some
understanding of how to improve going forward and I think that
is an advance on one and a half years ago,” Menon said.  Enforcing a cease-fire in the disputed region, which India
and  Pakistan  have fought over for six decades, is a condition
for better ties, Menon said.  The need for “effective action” with regard to the 2008
Mumbai terrorist attack also must be addressed to see progress
in bilateral trade and economic ties, Menon said. Pakistan’s
Sharif said there will be “movement” because his country’s
judicial commission has returned from India with depositions as
part of its investigation, according to Menon.  Kashmir Killings  The meeting was the first between the leaders since Sharif
took office in June on a pledge to improve ties with India. The
killing of 12 people by suspected Pakistani militants in Indian-controlled Kashmir last week is the latest incident to strain
relations between the nuclear-armed neighbors, which two years
ago resumed peace talks to repair ties shattered by the Mumbai
attack. The killing of eight Indian and Pakistani soldiers on
their disputed border in the Himalayan region last month may
also hamper reconciliation efforts.  India and Pakistan have fought three wars since achieving
independence from British rule in 1947. Two of the wars have
been over Kashmir, a region that is divided between them and
claimed in full by both.  In the first seven months of this year, the number of
cease-fire violations along the Line of Control that separates
the countries increased 80 percent from the same period last
year to 57, Indian Defense Minister A.K. Antony told parliament
last month.  The assault on Mumbai that led to a halt in peace talks
involved attacks by militants on a railway station and luxury
hotels. India says the strike was carried out by the Lashkar-e-Taiba guerrilla group with support from some members of
Pakistan’s security establishment.  Trial of Suspects  Pakistan, which denies the allegation of state involvement,
has begun a closed trial of some Lashkar members. India has
called for more action.  Sharif told Singh that there will be progress on the
investigation of the 2008 Mumbai attacks, as the Pakistani
judicial commission has interviewed and cross-examined the main
witnesses, and is expected to submit a report to the court soon,
said Jilani.  Pakistan is the “epicenter of terrorism” in South Asia,
Singh said in a Sept. 28  speech  to the UN General Assembly. For
relations to improve, Pakistan needs to prevent militants from
using its territory as a base to attack India and stop providing
support to groups behind attacks, Singh said.  New Beginning  In his  speech  to the UN a day earlier, Sharif said he
wanted a new beginning in relations between the nations. Sharif
said both countries had wasted “massive resources” on a
nuclear-arms race that could have been used to improve the lives
of their citizens and said a new level of cooperation could
benefit the entire region.  Adding further controversy to the meeting, a Pakistani
journalist working for GEO TV said that Sharif had likened Singh
to a village woman because the Indian leader had spent so much
time talking about Pakistan when meeting with U.S. President
 Barack Obama  on Sept. 27. An Indian journalist present at the
meeting denied that Sharif made those comments.  Narendra Modi, the prime ministerial candidate for India’s
main opposition party, seized on the issue of Sharif’s remarks
yesterday to question why Singh was continuing to meet with
Sharif after last week’s attack and the alleged barb.  “There cannot be a bigger insult to the Indian prime
minister,” Modi said at a rally in New Delhi. “This is an
insult to the people of India.”  India will hold general elections next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  