-- Intesa Appoints Messina CEO; Shares Slide in Milan
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-09-30T08:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/intesa-appoints-messina-ceo-as-cucchiani-resigns-amid-clash.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s
second-biggest bank, appointed Carlo Messina as chief executive
officer to replace Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani, who resigned after
clashing with shareholders. The stock fell the most in six
months.  The management change will “accelerate” the bank’s
potential after Cucchiani delivered expected results during a
prolonged systemic crisis, Intesa told the Milan stock exchange
in a statement today.  Messina, formerly general manager and head of the retail
division, will be required to tackle rising bad loans amid
Italy’s longest recession in two decades and increasing
political instability in the euro region’s third-largest
economy. Cucchiani, 63, had clashed with some shareholders
during his 21 months in charge as he sought to reduce costs and
reorganize the branch network.  “Any incoming management will struggle amid political
risk, lack of progress in economic reform and a low interest-rate environment which is particularly punishing for  Italian
banks (BNK) ,” Paul Vrouwes, who helps oversee about 5 billion euros
($6.8 billion) in global financial stocks at ING Investment
Management in The Hague,  Netherlands , said by telephone. “A
change brings added uncertainty,” said Vrouwes, who doesn’t own
Italian bank shares.  Shares Slide  Intesa fell as much as 5.6 percent in Milan, the biggest
drop since March 25, and declined 3.5 percent to 1.53 euros at
10:08 a.m., giving the company a market value of 24.8 billion
euros. The benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  dropped 1.7 percent, leading
losses in  Europe  as Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta fought
to save his administration.  The CEO change came as Letta’s stricken government sought a
confidence vote due to a rift with  Silvio Berlusconi . The
political tensions have pushed up Italian bond yields and
impaired the country’s ability to deliver on its budget
commitments.  “Overlapping Italy’s political instability with yet
another management replacement could be taken as a sign of
weakness by the market,” Andrea Filtri, an analyst at
 Mediobanca SpA (MB)  in  London , wrote in an e-mailed report today,
downgrading the stock to “underperform” from “neutral”.
“With 114 billion euros of Italian  government bonds  and
practically its entire business in Italy, Intesa is heavily
exposed to the country’s fortunes.”  Profit Decline  Cucchiani’s departure comes after Intesa’s net income
slumped 75 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier to
116 million euros. He resigned after at least one of the
company’s top three investors -- all of which are Italian
banking foundations --sought to push him out during mounting
criticism over his management style, people with knowledge of
the matter have said.  Intesa’s stock rose 21 percent since Cucchiani took the
helm on Dec. 22, 2011, compared with a 2.4 percent increase for
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s largest bank, and a 42 percent gain in
the Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index.  IMF Recommendation  The exit comes as the  International Monetary Fund , which
conducted a review of Italy’s lenders this year, urged greater
oversight of foundations’ governance of banks in a report this
month.  Although foundations follow some general corporate
governance principles, they face weak internal accountability
and are heavily influenced by the interests of their membership,
the IMF wrote in September. Intesa’s three largest shareholders
are the foundations Compagnia di San Paolo, Fondazione Cariplo
and Fondazione Cassa di Risparmio di Padova e Rovigo, which own
a combined 19 percent.  Intesa will probably boost its domestic role and abandon
plans to expand abroad, Luca Comi, an analyst at ICBPI, a Milan-based financial services company, wrote in a report to clients
today.  Messina, who joined the bank in 1995 as planning manager at
Banco Ambrosiano Veneto, was born in  Rome  in 1962 and holds an
economics degree from Rome’s Luiss University. He was also
formerly a professor at the Luiss School of Management.  “Messina is well known to investors with a long track
record in the organization,” Alberto Cordara, a London-based
analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in an e-mailed
report today. “Messina is very knowledgeable in terms of
operations, all financial matters and has a deep understanding
of the Intesa organization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  