-- Intesa Board Said to Discuss Resignation of CEO Cucchiani Today
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-09-29T16:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/intesa-board-said-to-discuss-resignation-of-ceo-cucchiani-today.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s boards were
scheduled today to discuss the possible resignation of Chief
Executive Officer Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani after he clashed with
shareholders, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The management and supervisory boards of  Italy ’s second-largest bank were scheduled to gather at 6:00 p.m. today in
Milan to review Cucchiani’s role, said the people, who asked to
not be named because the matter is not public.  At least one of the bank’s top three investors has been
seeking to push out Cucchiani, people familiar with the matter
have said. Cucchiani, 63, frequently doesn’t involve other
executives before making key decisions and instead relies on
external consultants, prompting criticism of his leadership of
the company, according to three people.  Intesa’s General Manager Carlo Messina may replace
Cucchiani, news wire Ansa reported earlier today.  Intesa’s three largest shareholders are banking foundations
Compagnia di San Paolo, Fondazione Cariplo and Fondazione Cassa
di Risparmio di Padova e Rovigo, which own a combined stake of
19 percent.  Cucchiani, a former member of Allianz SE’s management
board, was appointed CEO in 2011, replacing Corrado Passera, who
left the bank to become a minister in the Italian cabinet of
former Prime Minister Mario Monti. He beat out Intesa’s two
general managers, Gaetano Micciche and Marco Morelli, who had
been described as the front-runners by Italian newspapers.  Cucchiani, who was also formerly a board member of
UniCredit SpA, earned an economics degree from Milan’s Bocconi
University and a MBA from Stanford University’s School of
Business. Previous experience also included stints at McKinsey &
Co., Gucci Group and Italian insurer Lloyd Adratico SpA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  