-- IPOs in Europe Leapfrog U.S. Amid Cheap Valuations
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d ,   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-09-30T18:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/ipos-in-europe-leapfrog-u-s-as-cheap-valuations-draw-investors.html
The volume of initial public
offerings in Europe jumped more than sixfold in the third
quarter as investors lured by cheaper valuations and
strengthening economies put their money to work in the region.  IPOs in Europe surged at more than double the pace of those
in the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE,  Germany ’s largest residential
landlord, and U.K. property broker Foxtons Group Plc sold
shares. Volume rose more than 10 percent globally compared with
a year earlier, weighed down by a 40 percent drop in Asia.  Investors are returning to Europe after European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
helped ease the region’s debt crisis and end the euro-area
recession. While growth prospects at companies such as Twitter
Inc. are stoking interest in U.S. IPOs later this year, $1
billion-plus offerings from the U.K.’s Royal Mail Group Ltd. and
London-based Merlin Entertainments Group Ltd. may get a boost
from funds flowing toward Europe amid limited growth potential
in the U.S., where stocks have climbed to records.  “There is a perception that the majority of the region’s
economic problems are behind us and we’re going to see lower
volatility levels,” said Josef Ritter, head of equity capital
markets for Europe at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “A key theme
of this quarter was U.S. investors refocusing on Europe.”  European Equities  U.S. investors bought more than $65 billion of European
equities between January and May, the most since before the
financial crisis, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts including
Sharon Bell and Matthieu Walterspiler said in a report this
month. European investment funds bought almost 80 billion euros
of equities in the past 12 months and inflows into Europe should
continue, they said in a subsequent report.  Expensive U.S. equities this year following the S&P 500
Index’s 20 percent surge are making Europe a natural place to
look for growth, said Hans Olsen, chief investment officer for
the Americas at  Barclays Wealth , a unit of Barclays Plc.  “It is very risky to be overweight at these prices so you
start to look somewhere else. The standout was Europe,” Olsen
said.  Before today, member companies in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index
were trading at about 13 times this year’s estimated earnings,
compared with more than 19 for companies on the Nasdaq Stock
Market and the Nikkei 225 Stock Average, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  U.S. Funds  U.S. funds that invest in European equities attracted $13.1
billion in the six weeks through Sept. 18, Societe Generale SA
and EPFR Global data show, even as investors withdrew $16.9
billion from funds buying U.S. stocks.  “This is the year of the European equities story,” said
Klaus Hessberger, co-head of equity capital markets for Europe
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London . “It helps that there is
still a valuation discount here versus in the U.S. and Asian
markets.” The last quarter should see about 10 to 15 more IPOs
with an average deal size of as much as $500 million, he said.  Italian clothing maker Moncler plans to list shares as
early as November in a sale that could raise about 1 billion
euros ($1.35 billion), people familiar with the matter have
said. French cable-TV operator Numericable SAS also plans an IPO
in the third quarter and could be valued at as much as 5.5
billion euros in the sale.  Moncler, Numericable  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation euro area rose in
the second quarter, bringing to a close six straight quarters of
contraction, the longest slump since the euro’s debut in 1999.
The euro meanwhile had gained 5.5 percent against a basket of
nine major peers in 2013 before today, the biggest jump in the
group and poised for its first annual gain in five years,
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show.  Still, risks remain. While the European Central Bank raised
its 2013 euro-zone economic projection this month, it still sees
a 0.4 percent contraction and expects only a “gradual” pickup
in activity.  A possible resurgence of political tensions, upcoming bank
balance sheet assessment and deleveraging all could constrain
the region’s recovery next year, according to Philippe Gudin,
chief European economist at Barclays in London.  “These headwinds pose some risk to our macroeconomic
scenario and reinforce the view that the recovery will be very
subdued,” Gudin said.  Sprouts IPO  While U.S. IPO volume lagged behind Europe in the third
quarter, it still tripled to more than $11 billion from a year
earlier. Sprouts Farmers Market Inc., the grocer partly owned by
Apollo Global Management LLC, and Benefitfocus Inc., a benefits-software company, more than doubled in their trading debuts
during the quarter as the stock-market rally stoked investors’
confidence and appetite for risk.  That pace of IPO activity may set the stage for sustained
momentum through the end of the year as long as the U.S.
government doesn’t begin to taper stimulus spending more quickly
than investors are comfortable with, according to Ashley Delp,
co-head of equity capital markets for the Americas at Jefferies
Group LLC.  Twitter, Alibaba  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESRT) , whose properties include
 Manhattan ’s Empire State Building, may raise as much as $1.07
billion in an IPO tomorrow. Microblogging service Twitter, which
has more than 200 million members worldwide, said on its website
Sept. 12 that it filed IPO paperwork confidentially with
regulators. Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc., the hotel operator
owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , filed to raise $1.25 billion in a
U.S. IPO on Sept. 12.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s biggest e-commerce
company, is moving toward a U.S. listing after talks with the
Hong Kong stock exchange for an IPO broke down, people familiar
with the matter said this month. The company, which plans an IPO
that may value the company at more than $100 billion, hasn’t yet
hired banks and may move ahead with the offering next year.  In the Asia Pacific region, the value of IPOs fell in the
third quarter as a rebound in Hong Kong failed to offset
declines in  Japan  and Southeast Asia. Companies raised more than
$10 billion from initial sales in the region, compared with
about $17 billion a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “Investors are constructive on a global basis, while still
being discerning about where they’re putting their money to
work,” Jefferies Group’s Delp said. “In terms of firing on all
cylinders from a global perspective, I would say we’re not quite
there yet, but we’re certainly heading in that direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  