-- TIPS Gain Most Since 2011 With Treasuries as Taper Delayed
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-30T20:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/tips-gain-most-since-11-with-treasuries-as-taper-delay-embraced.html
For almost a year Wan-Chong Kung
avoided U.S. government debt insured against inflation as
consumer prices stagnated. Now, the bond-fund manager at Nuveen
Asset Management whose inflation-indexed  fund  has beaten 95
percent of its peers the last three years, is loading up on
Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities.  Her change comes as Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Janet
Yellen, who voted for every stimulus measure since 2008, became
the favorite to succeed Ben S. Bernanke as the next Fed chief
and the central bank maintained its $85 billion a month in bond
buying. Policy makers also said their target interest rate for
overnight loans between banks may rise at a slower pace than
suggested by historical measures.  That last “big dovish surprise” shows the Fed is
“continuing to err on the side of promoting sustained job
growth potentially at the risk of higher inflation,” Kung, who
helps manage $125 billion at Nuveen, said in a Sept. 24
telephone interview from Minneapolis.  Kung has plenty of company. TIPS, as the inflation-indexed
bonds are known, have gained 3.5 percent since Sept. 5, the best
three-week rally since August 2011, after losing 8.7 percent in
the first eight months, the most ever in that period, according
t0 Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Inflation-Linked
Treasury Index.  TIPS Favored  Now, fund companies from Nuveen to  SEI Investments Co. (SEIC)  say
the Fed’s continued stimulus will lift market expectations for
faster increases in the consumer price index, leading to more
gains for TIPS. Inflation-protected debt pays a lower coupon
than non-indexed Treasuries. In exchange, investors receive an 
adjustment  on the principal equal to the rise in the CPI.  Societe Generale SA recommends the debt even as economists
at  France ’s second-biggest lender forecast inflation will remain
subdued. The bank’s fixed-income strategists suggested buying
TIPS after the Federal Open Market Committee Sept. 18 maintained
the pace of bond buying and signaled that benchmark rates will
remain low into 2016.  “The Fed was willing to lose a little bit of its
credibility to be dovish,” Jorge Garayo, a fixed-income
strategist at Societe Generale in  London , said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 23. It isn’t clear if the Fed’s reaction “to
inflation will be different or not, but market participants
believe it will,” he said.  Little Inflation  Treasuries that aren’t indexed for inflation, which erodes
the value of bonds by reducing the purchasing power of a
security’s fixed payments, have gained 1.9 percent since Sept.
5, Bank of America indexes show, indicating little concern that
inflation will get out of control.  Even after the Fed purchased more than $3.1 trillion in
government and mortgage  bonds  and held its benchmark lending
rate at about zero since December 2008, signs of rising prices
remain scarce. The Fed’s preferred measure of inflation, the
personal consumption expenditures deflator, rose 1.2 percent in
August, down from a revised 1.3 percent increase the month
before, the Bureau of Economic Analysis said Sept. 27. It has
remained below policy makers’ 2 percent target since April 2012.  The gauge fell at an annual rate of 0.1 percent in the
second quarter, the Bureau of Economic Analysis said Sept. 26.  “As far as I can see, you don’t have any inflationary
pressure,” Dan Heckman, a fixed-income strategist at the U.S.
Bank Wealth Management unit of U.S. Bancorp, which manages $110
billion, said in a Sept. 24 telephone interview.  Break-Even Rate  Yields on 10-year TIPS fell 5 basis points last week, or
0.05 percentage point, to 0.45 percent, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. Non-indexed Treasury yields of similar
maturity declined 11 basis points to 2.63 percent.  The 2.18 percentage-point gap in yields, which has expanded
from this month’s low of 2.07 percentage points on Sept. 9, is
known as the break-even rate and reflects investors’
expectations for inflation over the life of the securities.  The price of the benchmark 10-year TIPS note, a 0.375
percent security due in July 2023, rose 6/32, or $1.88 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 150/32 at 4:10 p.m. in New York. The
2.5 percent Treasury maturing in August 2013 increased 4/32, or
$9.38 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 1/32, Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices show. Yields fell to 0.41 percent today on the TIPS and
to 2.61 percent on the non-indexed notes.  Both types of bonds have benefited this month from signs of
a slowing U.S.  economy  that prompted the Fed to maintain its
program of buying of $45 billion a month of Treasuries and $40
billion of mortgage bonds.  Economic growth is also threatened with Congress locked in
a budget stalemate that raises the risk of the first government
shutdown in 17 years as Republican lawmakers seek to delay and
limit President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act.  Declining Confidence  Retail sales rose 0.2 percent in August, the least in four
months and compared with the 0.5 percent advance predicted in a
Bloomberg News Survey of economists. The Conference Board’s
September consumer  confidence  index declined to 79.7, the
weakest since May, from 81.8 a month earlier, the New York-based
private research group said Sept. 24.  After creating an average of 199,000 jobs a month this year
through May, the pace slowed to about 148,000 from June through
August, Labor Department data show. The  unemployment  rate of 7.3
percent exceeds the 6 percent average the past two decades.  The Fed said in its Set. 18 statement that the
“exceptionally low range for the federal funds rate will be
appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains
above 6.5 percent” and inflation isn’t more than 2.5 percent.
The Labor Department will release September jobs data Oct. 4.  “The dovishness that the Fed is portraying, that’s setting
up the groundwork for an inflationary environment at some
point,”  Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion at SEI in Oaks,
Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview on Sept. 23.  ‘Potentially Complacent’  The five-year, five-year break-even rate, a gauge of
inflation  expectations  used by the Fed help guide policy, rose
to 2.63 percent on Sept. 24 from 2.5 percent on Sept. 13 and
from an 18 month low of 2.33 percent in June. That compares with
an average of 2.74 percent for the past decade.  “This continues to be a Fed that wants to be  pro-growth 
and is potentially complacent about inflation,” said Kung of
Nuveen. “You can price in a higher inflation risk premium. The
Fed actions in terms of monetary policy could potentially
translate into a higher value for inflation insurance.”  The stimulus has boosted stock markets. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Stock Index has  risen  19 percent this year, one of
the best performances in developed markets.  Japan , which has
also been using asset purchases to boost its economy, has seen
the nation’s Topix soar 42 percent.  ‘Spillover Effects’  Part of the Fed’s goal was to “inflate risky assets and
potentially to have some spillover effects in the real
economy,” Alan Wilde, head of fixed-income and currencies in
London at Baring Asset Management, which oversees $57.4 billion,
said in a telephone interview on Sept. 26.  With unemployment above its two decade average, the central
bank should be “keeping a historically unusual amount of
monetary stimulus in place -- and possibly providing more
stimulus,” even if the medium-term inflation outlook
temporarily rises and asset prices reach “unusually high
levels,” Fed Bank of  Minneapolis  President Narayana
Kocherlakota said Sept. 26 in remarks prepared for a speech in
Houghton,  Michigan . Kocherlakota votes on policy next year.  The Fed estimates that interest rates will stay not far
from record lows for the next three years.  The  federal funds rate target  will be 2 percent at the end
of 2016, according to the median of estimates by Fed board
members and regional presidents detailed on Sept. 18 in the
central bank’s quarterly Summary of Economic Projections.  GDP Forecast  That forecast compares with the median estimate of 4
percent for where the rate should be at a time of full
employment and stable prices, according to the report, which
also includes individual forecasts for gross domestic product,
inflation, unemployment and interest rates.  Officials estimated the economy would expand 2.5 percent to
3.3 percent in 2016, driving unemployment down to 5.4 percent to
5.9 percent with inflation at 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  Yellen, 67, is the leading candidate to replace Bernanke
when his term expires on Jan. 31, according to people familiar
with White House discussions. She has been picking up support
from Democratic senators and party leaders including former
President Bill Clinton, after former Treasury Secretary Lawrence
Summers said Sept. 15 that he wouldn’t seek the post.  “The Fed is going to err on the side of having inflation
as opposed to risking us falling into a deflationary
environment,” James Barnes, a money manager in Wyomissing,
 Pennsylvania , for National Penn Investors Trust, which oversees
$1 billion in fixed-income assets and has 8 percent to 10
percent of its holdings in TIPS, said in a Sept. 24 telephone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  