-- Iran Oil-Export Revival Needs More Than Obama Phone Call
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2013-09-30T19:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/iran-oil-export-revival-needs-more-than-phone-call-among-rivals.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
Iran’s Hassan Rouhani must build on their weekend phone call to
convince crude traders that a thaw in relations will open the
way to increased oil exports.  While the historic conversation Sept. 27 will probably
limit gains in prices, any “long-term” declines for crude will
depend on the success of negotiations aimed at curbing the
 Persian Gulf  nation’s ability to enrich uranium, according to
Nomura Holdings Inc. For Citigroup Inc., the differences between
the two nations are likely to weigh on talks even as some
countries, such as  India , seek to boost imports from Iran.  The phone call was the first time since the 1979 Iranian
revolution that leaders of the two countries have spoken
directly. During the 15-minute exchange, conducted via
interpreters, the presidents “expressed their mutual political
will to rapidly solve the nuclear issue,” Rouhani said on
Twitter. Rouhani entered office last month, pledging to roll
back U.S and European sanctions targeting Iran’s oil and
financial industry.  “The peace chat between the U.S. and Iran will keep a
tight lid on crude prices amid ebbing geopolitical tensions in
the Persian Gulf” in the short term,  Gordon Kwan , regional head
of oil and gas research at Nomura in  Hong Kong , said by e-mail
yesterday. “Long term, unless Rouhani can secure the blessing
of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei to abandon the nuclear
program, the geopolitical premium on the oil price will return
to haunt the energy markets.”  Oil Decline  West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark crude, dropped
4.9 percent in September, the biggest monthly loss since
February, as concern receded that the U.S. would attack  Syria ,
an ally of Iran, over the use of chemical weapons and after
Rouhani told the  United Nations General Assembly  last week his
nation was ready to enter talks “without delay.” He maintained
Iran retained its “inherent right” to enrich uranium.  Oil prices may fluctuate as U.S. lawmakers debate federal
spending plans that might force a government shutdown if an
accord can’t be reached. WTI crude for November delivery
retreated 54 cents, or 0.5 percent, to settle at $102.33 a
barrel today on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange after capping
three weeks of losses on Sept. 27.  Rouhani’s UN visit coincided with the resumption of
negotiations on access to Iran’s nuclear sites with the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  in Vienna. Talks with the
monitoring agency are set to continue next month.  ‘First Step’  The phone conversation “should be a calming measure, but
it’s premised on the ability to move forward in the process,”
Michael Stephens, a researcher at the  Royal United Services
Institute  in Doha, said in an interview yesterday. “Yes, things
are positive, things are looking better. But this is a first
step. We have 10 more to go, maybe more.”  A full removal of sanctions would enable Iran to access
markets and would be “bearish” for crude prices, Morgan
Stanley analysts including Adam Longson wrote in a report today.  Iran has accumulated significant oil inventories since the
U.S. and European first imposed sanctions, and “the sale of
crude in storage may flood oil markets” if those curbs are
removed, the bank said. Morgan Stanley said it was “skeptical
of any sudden resolution” to lift sanctions.  Testing Goodwill  The goodwill between Obama and Rouhani may be tested today
as the U.S. President hosts Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  for meetings in  Washington . Netanyahu, voicing doubts
about Rouhani’s overtures, told reporters in  Israel  yesterday
that he’ll “tell the truth in the face of the sweet-talk and
the onslaught of smiles.”  Two years of U.S.- and European Union-backed sanctions on
Iran’s oil and financial industries have cut the country’s
shipments abroad to half their level before the measures began,
according to International Energy Agency data. Restrictions on
the shipping, financing and buying of Iranian crude have slowed
flows to developing economies such as China and India.  An improved working relationship could reverse some of the
more than 1 million barrels a day of  oil production  lost because
of the sanctions, while a longer-term solution to curbs on
Iranian exports is unlikely to come soon, according to Seth Kleinman, a London-based analyst with Citigroup.  Iran  pumped
2.57 million barrels a day in August, compared with 3.57 in
August 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sanctions Effect  “A tangible improvement in relations would see Indian and
other emerging market countries’ take of Iranian crude increase
over a few quick months, bringing half of the lost million
barrels per day back,” Kleinman, head of energy strategy at
Citigroup in  London , said by e-mail yesterday. “Beyond that I’d
expect technical issues and geopolitics to drag.”  The crippling effect of sanctions brought Iran back to the
negotiating table, according to Robin Mills, who worked on
projects in the Persian Gulf nation from 1998 to 2003 as an
engineer with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   “It reflects Iran’s weakness because the move for talks
shows how sanctions have had an impact,” Mills, head of
consulting at Manaar Energy Consulting and Project Management in
Dubai, said by phone yesterday. “Domestically and economically,
they’re in trouble.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  