-- Iran’s Zarif Says Nation Ready to Discuss Nuclear Power Aims
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-09-29T18:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/iran-s-zarif-says-nation-ready-to-discuss-nuclear-power-program.html
Iran isn’t developing a nuclear
weapon and is prepared to negotiate with the U.S. about its
program to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes, Iranian Foreign
Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said.  “Negotiations are on the table to discuss various aspects
of Iran’s enrichment program,” Zarif said in an interview
broadcast today on ABC’s “This Week.”  Zarif also urged the U.S. to lift economic sanctions on
Iran. The Islamic republic’s pursuit of nuclear technology has
led President  Barack Obama  and his allies in Europe to tighten
the penalties and the U.S. and  Israel  to threaten military
action to prevent Iran from developing nuclear arms. Zarif said
Iran is “not seeking nuclear weapons.”  Obama and Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani spoke about the
the nuclear program during a 15-minute telephone call last week
that represented the first contact between leaders of the two
countries since before Iran’s Islamic revolution of 1979.
Rouhani returned to Tehran to be greeted by both supporters and
by protesters chanting anti-U.S. slogans.  Zarif also met last week with U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and counterparts from five other world powers and proposed
a goal of reaching an accord within a year. He called the recent
talks a “necessary first step toward removing the tensions,”
and said the U.S. should be willing to dismantle sanctions
against his country “very rapidly.”  Rice Comments  The sanctions will remain in effect until  Iran  satisfies
its obligations under United Nations Security Council
resolutions and commits in negotiations to seek nuclear power
only for peaceful purposes, U.S. National Security Adviser Susan
Rice said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program today.  While the contact between Obama and Rouhani may eventually
begin the process of normalizing diplomatic relations, Rice said
Iran must first follow through on its pledges to not build
nuclear weapons and to stop supporting terrorists.  Even as Zarif spoke of the need for the sides to sit down
and “reach a common objective,” he also said that between the
U.S. and Iran, “lack of confidence is unfortunately mutual.”  Before negotiations begin in earnest, Zarif drew a line.  “We do not need military-grade uranium,” he said,
promising Iran “will not move” toward obtaining it. “Our
right to enrich is non-negotiable.”  ‘Greater Chance’  Former President Bill Clinton said he sees a “greater
chance of constructive engagement” with Iran now than in the
past. Clinton said in an interview with ABC’s “This Week with
George Stephanopoulos” that the chemical-weapons effort in
 Syria  could be a good dress rehearsal.  “We should keep working for the best and preparing for the
worst,” he said, noting Iran’s pledge to refrain from seeking
nuclear weapons. “We can’t take their word for it. But we can
take them up on it.”  Senators Robert Menendez, the New Jersey Democrat who heads
the Foreign Relations Committee, and Lindsey Graham, a South
Carolina Republican, wrote in an op-ed in the Washington Post
that they were skeptical of Iran’s overtures. The lawmakers
support tougher sanctions and said the recent talks shouldn’t
undermine “U.S. resolve to take whatever action is necessary to
prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear state.”  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, boarding a plane
for the U.S. to meet with Obama and speak at the UN, was also
skeptical.  “I will tell the truth in the face of the sweet-talk and
onslaught of smiles,” he told reporters. Netanyahu arrived in
New York today and will visit the White House tomorrow.  “A smile attack is much better than a lie attack,” Zarif
said in response, accusing the Israelis of repeating since 1991
that Iran is six months away from having a nuclear weapon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  