-- Israel’s TA-25 Closes at 2-Year High as Iran Concern Wanes
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-09-29T13:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/israel-s-ta-25-index-set-for-2-year-high-as-iran-concern-wanes.html
Israel’s benchmark gauge closed at
the highest level in more than two years on the prospects for
progress of U.S. nuclear talks with Iran.  The  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  advanced 1.2 percent to 1,270.93, the
highest level since May 2011, at the close in Tel Aviv.  Israel
Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , the country’s 10th-largest private sector
employer, and defense developer  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  led the
gains, rising 5.8 percent and 5.5 percent, respectively. The
index has advanced 7.2 percent this year compared with a 16
percent gain on the MSCI World Index.  President  Barack Obama  phoned his Iranian counterpart,
Hassan Rouhani, to discuss the outlook for nuclear talks in the
first contact between the countries’ leaders in decades. Obama
told reporters at the White House that there’s a “unique
opportunity” to reach an agreement. Separately, last week
Standard & Poor’s affirmed Israel’s ratings at A+/A-1 with a
stable outlook, reflecting a “prosperous and diverse economy”
and the impact of natural gas production on its external
account.  “The positive weekend noise about the high-level contact
between U.S. and Iranian officials may lead some investors to
lower the risk premium in Israel,” Zach Herzog, head of
international sales at Psagot Investment House Ltd., said today
by phone. “A broad Middle East war sparked by an Israeli attack
on  Iran  has been weighing on foreign investors for some time.”  Iran’s pursuit of nuclear technology has led Obama and his
allies in Europe to tighten economic sanctions, and the U.S. and
Israel to threaten military action, to prevent the Islamic
republic from obtaining nuclear weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  