-- Israel Arrests Iranian Suspected of Plot on Embassy
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-09-29T13:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/israel-arrests-iranian-suspected-of-plot-on-embassy.html
Israel  arrested an Iranian man
suspected of preparing attacks in exchange for $1 million
against sites that included the U.S. embassy in Tel Aviv,
according to the country’s national security agency.  The arrest almost three weeks ago wasn’t announced until
today, when Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  landed in  New York 
to speak at the  United Nations General Assembly  and, in his
words, “tell the truth in the face of the sweet-talk” that has
greeted  Iran ’s new president, Hassan Rouhani.  The 55-year-old suspect, who entered Israel on a Belgian
passport, was sent by a special operations unit of Iran’s
Revolutionary Guard Corps that has been responsible for
terrorist attacks around the world, the agency, known as Shin-Bet, said in an e-mailed statement. He was promised $1 million
to carry out the mission, according to the statement.  Presenting himself as a salesman of windows for restaurants
and other shops, the suspect traveled to Israel three times,
seeking Israeli partners to start new businesses that were meant
to serve as cover for Iranian intelligence-gathering, the  Shin-Bet  said. He was arrested Sept. 11 at Ben Gurion International
Airport as he was about to board a flight from Israel.  Among his possessions were photographs of sites that would
be of interest to Iranian intelligence, including the U.S.
Embassy that overlooks the beaches of  Tel Aviv ’s coastline.
Geoff Anisman, the embassy spokesman, declined to comment.  An Israeli official traveling with Netanyahu said the
arrest shows Iran’s diplomatic efforts at the UN don’t match its
actions, which include acts of terrorism around the world. The
official spoke on condition of anonymity because of the
sensitive diplomatic nature of the arrest.  Public defense lawyers representing the suspect said he is
a Belgian businessman man who is not motivated by any pro-Iranian agenda, the Jerusalem Post reported, citing attorneys
Michael Orkavi and Anat Yaari. They said the suspect was denied
access to a lawyer for nine days and that the case is more
complex than the way it has been presented by Israel.  Netanyahu is scheduled to meet President  Barack Obama  at
the White House tomorrow and address the General Assembly the
following day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  