-- Netanyahu to Rebut Iran ‘Sweet-Talk’ in Speech to UN
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-09-29T16:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/israelis-raise-iran-concerns-as-netanyahu-heads-to-u-s-.html
Israel’s prime minister and his
allies expressed concern that President  Barack Obama ’s phone
call with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani may signal that
efforts to halt  Iran’s nuclear program  will stall.  “I will tell the truth in the face of the sweet-talk and
onslaught of smiles,” Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told
reporters as he boarded his plane for the U.S., where he will
meet Obama and speak before the  United Nations . Netanyahu landed
in  New York  early today and will visit the White House tomorrow.  The Israeli leaders spoke after the historic call between
Rouhani and Obama, the highest-level U.S.-Iranian encounter
since before Iran’s Islamic revolution of 1979. Netanyahu has
expressed skepticism about the motives behind Rouhani’s
initiative and suggested Iran is trying to buy time to develop
the capability to make a nuclear weapon. Iran says its nuclear
program is for civilian needs such as electricity.  “Every attempt to enforce UN resolutions on Iran to show
transparency and offer proof that they have no plans for a
nuclear arms program has failed until now,” said Tzachi Hanegbi, head of the Israeli parliament’s House committee and a
member of Netanyahu’s Likud party.  “The Iranian nuclear program is at a critical point,” he
said, calling for tougher sanctions. “We don’t want the
Americans to waste this critical year with worthless talk.”  Atomic Weapons  While Israel has never acknowledged having atomic weapons,
the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a Washington-based policy study group, estimates that the Jewish state
possesses enough material for between 100 and 170 weapons.
Israel has refused to open its nuclear facility in Dimona to UN
inspectors.  President  Shimon Peres  was among the few prominent voices
who criticized the “disparaging tone” used against Obama’s
approach, telling  Army Radio , “Other people also have insight,
not just us.”  Netanyahu has laid out four specific conditions Iran must
agree to before the U.S. and Europe lift sanctions: halting all
uranium enrichment, removing all enriched material, closing the
reactor at Fordo, near the city of Qom, and stopping plutonium
production.  “Rouhani’s assault of reconciliation is only another
deceitful trick,” Avigdor Liberman, former foreign minister and
head of parliament’s foreign affairs and defense committee, said
in comments posted on his Facebook page.  “Everyone should remember that in the 1980s it was only
Israel that warned about the Iraqi reactor, then acted and was
proved right,” he said, referring to Israel’s bombing of the
Iraqi nuclear facility in 1981.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in New York at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  