-- Nomura Sees Tax Breaks Driving $690 Billion Into Stocks
-- B y   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-09-30T07:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/nomura-sees-tax-breaks-driving-690-billion-into-stocks.html
Japanese savers are poised to pump
$690 billion into stocks to benefit from new tax breaks as the
government tries to avert a retirement cash crunch in the nation
with the world’s oldest population and lowest interest rates.  The Nippon Individual Savings Account program, which opens
for applications tomorrow, will allow individuals to buy 1
million yen ($10,143) a year of risk assets that are exempt from
taxes on dividends and capital gains for five years. The plan
will draw as much as 68 trillion yen through 2018, with 65
percent of users pulling money out of bank deposits to purchase
securities, estimates from Nomura Research Institute show.  “I am considering investing in Japanese stocks for the
first time in my life,” said Toshiya Enomoto, a 42-year-old
engineer whose parents likened equities to gambling. “With the
heavy tax burden in  Japan , these accounts are really
attractive.”  Japan’s government is encouraging citizens to switch money
out of bank accounts that pay interest of  0.02 percent , not
enough to fund retirement in a nation where 26 percent of the
population is already 65 or older, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Households held $8.5 trillion in deposits as of
March, the most ever, central bank data show. Diverting some of
that money into stocks, where the Topix index surged 39 percent
this year, would help Prime Minister Shinzo Abe provide capital
to spur growth in the world’s third-largest economy.  Equities made up just 7.9 percent of household assets as of
March, compared with 34 percent in the U.S. and 15 percent in
the euro zone, the most recent Bank of Japan data show. Domestic
individual investors accounted for 28 percent of Japanese share
trading in August, according to  Tokyo ’s bourse. While that’s up
from 21 percent a year earlier, foreign buyers made up 63
percent.  Topix Surges  The Topix soared 65 percent since elections were announced
in November that brought Abe to power. The gauge fell 1.9
percent to 1,194.10 today in Tokyo amid concern the U.S.
government is set for a partial shutdown.  Japanese shares have risen more than any other developed
market as record stimulus from the Bank of Japan improves the
outlook for growth. Investments in the nation’s equity funds
climbed by the most in May since the Investment Trusts
Association started compiling such data in March 2010.  “The tax break could be a catalyst for a change in
attitude toward investment, which is more necessary than ever
given the aging society and expected inflation,” said Naoki Kamiyama, chief equity strategist at Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit in Tokyo. “Coupled with the government’s
policies to get the country out of deflation, the program will
promote the shift of people’s money to stocks.”  Retirement Savings  While Japan’s pool of retirement savings outstrips that of
any other nation, it’s not growing fast enough. The nation’s
2010 population of 127 million was the world’s oldest and will
shrink 17 percent by 2055, the fastest decline among developed
economies, according to  United Nations  data.  Abe is caught between trying to curb a national debt that
the International Monetary Fund estimates will reach 245 percent
of gross-domestic product this year and funding pensions. The
government projected in 2009 that the 140 trillion yen set aside
for 34 million workers will run out by 2031.  “I have fears for my future as the public pension is
expected to dwindle given worsening government debt,” said
Reiko Takagi, a 66-year-old housewife who started investing in
the 1980s. “I’m always seeking a way to increase funds on hand
so it would be silly of me to not take advantage of this tax-break program.”  Tax-Free Investing  The NISA system, based on the U.K.’s  Individual Savings
Accounts , is scheduled to start in January and run through 2023.
It allows tax-free investment of the equivalent of about $10,000
a year in stocks, exchange-traded funds and investment trusts,
while bonds and currencies are not covered. The tax exemption
lasts five years and compares with levies as high as 20 percent
outside the plan.  The U.K. plan, which began in 1999, allows as much as
11,520 pounds ($17,400) in tax-free investment each year. There
were 2.9 million active accounts as of September 2012, according
to government figures.  Abe’s government said in a growth strategy report published
in January that the NISA program is designed to help Japan’s
households boost their retirement savings and expand the flow of
funds necessary for the country’s economic growth.  Preliminary account applications before the official
enrollment period starting tomorrow had reached 3.2 million by
Aug. 9, according to a survey of 128 brokerages conducted by the
Japan Securities Dealers Association.  Behavior Change  Buying stocks would be a change in behavior for most
Japanese households.  Individual investors  were net sellers of
local equities for eight of 10 years through 2012, dumping
shares worth 21 trillion yen in the span, according to data from
the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The Topix (TPX)  is 59 percent below its all-time peak in 1989. Some 363 trillion yen of wealth was erased
between then and the market’s bottom in 2003.  “Individual investors haven’t bought Japanese stocks
simply because the markets have fallen in the past two
decades,” said Isao Kubo, a Tokyo-based equity strategist at
Nissay Asset Management Corp., which oversees about 6.1 trillion
yen. “Elderly people have more funds to invest but they tend to
avoid risk.”  More than 90 percent of Japan’s sovereign bonds are owned
locally and the  10-year yield of 0.68 percent  on Sept. 27 was
the world’s lowest. Outstanding government debt exceeded one
quadrillion yen in June, according to the Ministry of Finance.  Equity Shift  Satoshi Nojiri, head of research at Fidelity Investments
Japan, says the tax breaks will trigger a shift to equities,
citing the response he saw at about 50 educational roadshows
across the country since June.  “Seminars for NISA are always full and I am bombarded with
questions that usually run past the scheduled closing time,”
said Nojiri. “A typical family with parents and two children
can invest a total 20 million yen tax-free in the accounts. This
will be a steady stream of money to risk assets.”  The public interest hasn’t gone unnoticed by brokerages,
which are making special offers to lure new clients. SBI
Securities Co., Japan’s biggest online brokerage, announced this
month it will waive stock-trading fees on the NISA accounts for
the first year. Shares of parent company SBI Holdings Inc.
surged 66 percent this year.  Matsui Securities Co. (8628) , which will
also defer trading charges, jumped 39 percent.  “We’ve been receiving many more applications for the
accounts than we expected,” said Ken Suzuki, general manager in
the corporate planning department at SBI Securities. “NISA will
be an great opportunity for people to start investment and
that’ll lead to more active stock trading.”  Other Attempts  There have been other government policies that tried and
failed to promote the shift of funds, and NISA is set to join
them, said Yasuhiro Yonezawa, professor of finance at  Waseda
University  in Tokyo.  “NISA will have limited impact on the investment attitude
of Japanese people,” said Yonezawa. “I doubt they’ll behave
rationally when it comes to asset management as they’ve been
unresponsive to incentives offered by the government in the
past.”  In the five years after stock trading fees were deregulated
in 1999 to draw more investors, the proportion of equities as
household financial assets fell to 9 percent from 9.9 percent,
according to Bank of Japan data.  The expiration of another incentive plan for investors at
the end of this year will also limit NISA’s impact, according to
Ichiro Takamatsu, a fund manager at Bayview Asset Management Co.
Levies on dividends and capital gains will return to 20 percent
after being cut by half for the past 10 years.  Taking Profits  “Individual investors will sell shares toward the end of
the year before the tax rate is raised back,” said Takamatsu.
“Many are holding unrealized gains due to the Abenomics rally
and that will spur profit-taking.”  More than  174 trillion yen  was added to Japanese stock
values from a November low through Sept. 27 as the Topix
recorded the biggest gain among developed markets. The gauge’s
27 percent climb from November through January was its steepest
three-month advance since 1993. Japanese equity trusts saw
inflows for seven consecutive months through August and 934
billion yen was invested in May, Investment Trusts Association
data show.  Of the 5,000 people surveyed by  Nomura Research Institute (4307) 
in July, 65 percent said they’d transfer funds from bank
deposits into NISA, while 23 percent said they’d sell equities
held in normal accounts and replace them with NISA assets. The
responses suggested 28 trillion yen to 68 trillion yen will flow
into the accounts in the first five years of the program.  “Given that Japanese people, especially those of working
age, can’t rely on public pensions, there’s no doubt that
they’ll shift money to stocks if markets remain steady,” said
Atsuto Sawakami, whose namesake fund has 297 billion yen under
management. “The funds through the NISA will boost Japan’s
stock markets in due course, especially if the program becomes
permanent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  