-- Ho Seeks Japan Casino as Development Limits Loom in Macau
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-09-30T09:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/ho-seeks-japan-casino-as-development-limits-loom-in-macau.html
Lawrence Ho, son of Macau gambling
tycoon  Stanley Ho , plans to invest more than $5 billion in Japan
if  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  receives permission to build a
casino there as he sees constraints on development at home.  Ho’s maneuver to build projects in the world’s third-largest economy is part of his strategy to expand overseas for
future growth, as government policies, limited land and a  labor
shortage  in Macau could eventually restrict gaming development.  “We still have the most eggs in the Macau basket,” Ho,
co-chairman of Melco Crown, said in an interview in  Tokyo  on
Sept. 28. “Given the Macau government and the Chinese
government want to control the growth rate,” the company is
seeking other opportunities outside the city, he said.  Ho is investing in gaming projects in the  Philippines  and
 Russia  in addition to lobbying for casino gaming in Japan. The
 Macau  government has limited the number of gaming tables and
hands out land permits at intervals to prevent the industry from
growing too fast in a city that’s half the size of Manhattan and
whose $38 billion in casino revenue last year was six times
larger than that of the  Las Vegas Strip .  “Macau is a small place,” Ho said. “As much as I want to
build a theme park, we just don’t have the land to do it.”
Still, he expects casino revenues in Macau will grow at least 10
percent next year as the global economy improves.  Melco shares fell 1.8 percent to close at HK$80.40 in  Hong
Kong  trading today, reducing this year’s gain to 88 percent,
compared with the 0.9 percent gain in benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Japan Potential  Ho plans to build Japan casino resorts, preferably in Tokyo
and  Osaka , through Melco Crown, the Hong Kong-based venture he
has with Australian billionaire  James Packer  that has current
developments in Manila and Macau. The company gets all its
revenue from Macau at present.  “The potential is huge,” the 36-year-old said. “If Japan
opens up and allows integrated resorts in Tokyo, Osaka, the
market could easily be in excess of $10 billion to $15 billion
or more.”  Wynn Resorts Ltd., MGM Resorts International, Las Vegas
Sands Corp. and Caesars Entertainment Corp. are also seeking
expansion opportunities in Japan as Tokyo’s selection to host
the 2020 Olympics boosts confidence the government will legalize
casinos. Wynn and MGM executives have said their companies would
invest several billion dollars in the North Asian nation.  Japan has long been touted as an attractive gaming market
with a large and relatively rich population base. It also enjoys
global appeal as a tourist destination. The country would
generate $10 billion in casino revenue a year should it open up
the market, Union Gaming Group LLC estimated.  Beyond Gaming  Ho said he has been lobbying multiple cabinet members in
 Japan  for the legalization of casinos. He sees “significant”
non-gaming revenue for the country because “there’s so much to
do, so much to see. Japan has a rich culture,” the executive
said.  Wynn Resorts’ investment in a Japan casino “is going to be
way bigger” than the $4 billion it is spending on its current
project in Macau’s Cotai area, Wynn Resorts Development
President Gamal Aziz said in an interview earlier this month in
Tokyo.  Both MGM and Wynn said they plan to partner with a local
consortium to build casino resorts while Sands has said it is
“open minded” about the idea. Ho said Melco is also
considering working with local groups. The three U.S. gaming
companies are also interested in developing projects in Tokyo
and Osaka.  Farther South  In the Philippines, Melco Crown is teaming up with local
billionaire  Henry Sy ’s Belle Corp. to develop a casino resort in
Manila, which is expected to cost $1 billion. Ho is also
investing in two Russian casino resorts worth $630 million.  In Macau, the only place in  China  where gambling is legal,
Melco Crown reported second-quarter profit more than doubled and
is building its Studio City casino resort on the increasingly
popular Cotai Strip, the city’s answer to the Las Vegas Strip.
Melco Crown’s Hong Kong and U.S. shares are both up about 90
percent year to date.  Lawrence’s 91-year-old father Stanley Ho, nicknamed “the
king of gambling” by the local press, held a casino monopoly in
the former Portuguese colony for four decades until 2002, when
the government issued licenses to six operators, including
Sands, Wynn and  MGM Resorts. (MGM)  The senior Ho built Asia’s largest
gambling empire with  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  by catering to high
rollers from China.  The junior Ho said he doesn’t gamble and would rather be
known as “the person who built cool integrated resorts” that
are “more cutting-edge and entertainment-centric.”  Still, “gaming is a very important component because it is
the financial engine that allows us to build these multi-billion
properties,” the executive said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  