-- London Luxury-Home Values Climb at Fastest in Five Months
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-09-30T08:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/london-luxury-home-values-climb-at-fastest-in-five-months.html
London  luxury-home prices rose at
the fastest pace in five months in September as more buyers
sought properties costing less than 2 million pounds ($3.2
million) to avoid a sales tax that was increased last year,
Knight Frank LLP said.  The average value of a house or apartment in the city’s
most expensive neighborhoods climbed 0.7 percent from August, an
index compiled by the broker showed. That brought the gain for
the past 12 months to 7 percent.  Homes selling for less than 2 million pounds in districts
such as Chelsea and Knightsbridge have climbed 16 percent since
the government in March 2012 raised a transaction tax known as
stamp duty to 7 percent from 5 percent for properties priced
above that level. Values for properties subject to the tax
gained 8.7 percent, the broker said.  “The stamp duty issue is definitely in effect,” Liam Bailey, global head of residential research at London-based
Knight Frank, said by phone. “There’s no doubt that investors
have been concentrating their firepower in the 1 million-pound
to 1.8 million-pound bracket. That’s been pushing that market.”  Prices in central London have climbed for 35 straight
months. Although the rate has slowed, the market’s strength this
year has exceeded most brokers’ expectations. Knight Frank as
recently as June said there wouldn’t be a significant price
increase this year. A month later, the firm forecast a 6 percent
gain.  ‘Discretionary Market’  “There’s a push-back from buyers,” Bailey said. “It’s a
discretionary market and people are looking for value. They
aren’t desperate to buy anything at any price.”  Notting Hill and the City of London financial district led
the increases with gains of 1.5 percent and 1.4 percent,
respectively, in September. Belgravia, where values declined 0.2
percent, was the only neighborhood that didn’t see a gain.  Prime Minister David Cameron repeated his objection to an
annual tax on houses valued at more than 2 million pounds. The
levy, known as the mansion tax, is supported by opposition
Labour Party leader Ed Miliband as well as Nick Clegg, head of
the Liberal Democrats which govern in a coalition with Cameron’s
Conservative Party.  “To go after someone’s house every year with a wealth tax,
I don’t think that is a sensible thing to do,” Cameron said in
an interview with the British Broadcasting Corp. yesterday in
Manchester,  England .  Rents in prime central London fell 0.1 percent in September
from the previous month, the fourth-straight decline, Knight
Frank said in a separate report. Rents dropped 2.5 percent on an
annual basis.  Financial Firings  “There was a lot of firing in the financial sector in 2012
and that undermined rents,” Bailey said.  Job vacancies at London’s financial-services companies fell
9 percent in the first half as firms tried to keep a lid on
costs. New vacancies in the City of London and Canary Wharf
districts dropped to 45,675 from 50,337 a year earlier, London-based Morgan McKinley said in July.  The areas covered by Knight Frank’s Prime Central London
Index include Belgravia, Chelsea, Hyde Park, Islington,
Kensington, Knightsbridge, Marylebone, Mayfair, Notting Hill,
Regent’s Park, St. John’s Wood, the Thames riverfront from
Battersea Bridge to the Shard, as well as the City and its
periphery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  