-- Hong Kong Poverty Line Shows Wealth Gap With One in Five Poor
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-09-29T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/hong-kong-poverty-line-shows-wealth-gap-with-one-in-five-poor.html
Hong Kong , a city with a surging
number of millionaires and home to some of  Asia ’s richest
people, finds a fifth of its population living in poverty.  About 1.3 million people, or 19.6 percent of the
population, were below the poverty line last year, according to
a report commissioned by Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying and
released on Sept. 28. The benchmark, determined for the first
time, was set at half of the city’s median household income,
excluding impact of tax and welfare transfer, the report said.  Growing inequality between the rich and the poor poses a
major challenge to Leung, who came into office in July last year
pledging to narrow the city’s record wealth gap. Tens of
thousands of people protested on July 1, the anniversary of Hong
Kong’s return to  China , demanding the government address
inequality which has been exacerbated by the doubling of  home
prices  since early 2009.  “It’s a shame for a rich city like Hong Kong,” Willy Lam Wo-Lap, an adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese
University of Hong Kong , said by phone. “Better housing is what
most people below the poverty line are asking for.”  Hong Kong’s Gini coefficient, a measure of  income
inequality , rose to 0.537 in 2011 from 0.525 in 2001, the
government said last June. The score, a high for the city since
records began in 1971, is above the 0.4 level used by analysts
as a gauge of the potential for social unrest.  Median Income  The median household income for a family of three was
HK$23,100 ($2,979) per month in the first quarter, according to
 government statistics . Based on that number, a family of three
with a monthly income of less than HK$11,550 would be below the
city’s poverty line.  “The poverty line is a useful reference point for knowing
whether the situation is improving or deteriorating,” Lam said.
“The line itself does not solve Hong Kong’s problems. What the
government should do is ensure its target of public housing is
met.”  The number of millionaires in the city rose 35.7 percent to
114,000 last year, according to a  report  by  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  and
Royal Bank of  Canada . Hong Kong is home to the four richest men
in Asia, Li Ka-shing, Lee Shau-kee, Lui Che-woo and  Cheng Yu-tung , who have a combined net worth of $90 billion, according to
the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  “To alleviate poverty, the government must promote
balanced economic development,” Leung said on Sept. 28 at a
summit. “Poverty is not only an issue of the low-income
population’s hardship, but it also affects Hong Kong’s harmony
and stability, thus affecting its long-term competitiveness,”
he said.  Cash Benefits  If accounting for recurring cash benefits, the population
living in poverty falls to 1 million, or 15.2 percent, the
report said. To lift all of these people up to the poverty line
would require HK$14.8 billion, ($1.9 billion)  according  to Chief
Secretary Carrie Lam.  “We don’t take the view that alleviating poverty means to
narrow the wealth gap,” she said at a press conference on Sept.
28. There may not be a lot of support for Hong Kong, a
capitalist society and a free economy, to tackle the wealth gap
with a more socialist attitude, she said. The point is to create
upward mobility, she said.  Labor unrest and protests have increased in Hong Kong in
the past two years as inflation and  home prices  soared.  “Having an official indicator will help the government
define its social welfare policies and will also raise public
expectations for something to be done,” Chung Kim-wah, an
assistant professor at The Hong Kong Polytechnic University,
said by phone on Sept. 28. “It’ll put a certain pressure on the
administration.”  Falling Income  The average gross  household income  of the poorest 10
percent of the population fell 16 percent to HK$2,170 a month in
2011, from 10 years earlier, according to a government  report .
The comparable income for the richest 10 percent jumped to
HK$137,480 a month, a 12 percent increase.  Leung increased welfare spending by about a third in his
first budget delivered in February, boosting recurrent spending
by 31 percent to HK$56 billion in the fiscal year starting April
1. He handed out allowances to more than 400,000 elderly
residents and pumped $2 billion into a poverty alleviation fund.  Hong Kong’s wealth inequality may increase as the
population ages. The proportion of people aged 65 and older
reached 14 percent last year and is expected to account for 30
percent by 2041, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said in
February.  Home prices in the city are the highest among major global
cities, according to London-based property broker  Savills Plc. (SVS) 
The government has imposed measures, including extra taxes on
foreign property buyers and higher mortgage down payment
requirements, as it seeks to reduce the risk of an asset bubble.  Subsidized Housing  Leung this year restarted the sale of subsidized public
housing, a program that was halted in 2004 by his predecessor. A
government committee studying the city’s long-term housing plan
has recommended building 470,000 new homes over the next decade,
of which 60 percent should be public housing, Anthony Cheung,
secretary for transport and housing, told reporters this month.  Hong Kong increased the minimum wage 7.1 percent to HK$30
an hour on May 1. The raise will bolster the salaries of about
327,200 employees, or 10 percent of the city’s workers,
according to a report by a government commission before the new
ruling.  The city has a wealth gap wider than  Singapore ,  Australia ,
and the U.K., though its  unemployment rate  for the three months
ended August was just 3.3 percent.  Working Poor  Singapore doesn’t have a poverty line and an estimated 6
percent to 8 percent of working households can be called
“working poor,” the  Straits Times  reported Sept. 25, citing a
report.  Europe  uses an  at-risk-of-poverty indicator  set at 60
percent of national median disposable income after accounting
for social benefits.  Labor unrest in Hong Kong has been increasing.  Workers at docks operated by billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s
Hongkong International Terminals Ltd. went on strike for more
than a month earlier this year, demanding higher wages and
better working conditions. The 40-day dispute ended in May after
the workers accepted a 9.8 percent wage increase, compared with
their original demand of 23 percent raise.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  