-- Osborne to Start Work-for-Benefits for Long-Term U.K. Jobless
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-09-29T21:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/osborne-to-start-work-for-benefits-for-long-term-u-k-jobless.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne will today announce new measures to require long-term jobless to actively seek work in exchange for benefits.  The Help-to-Work plan, starting in April, will target
200,000  jobless  a year and cost an annual 300 million pounds
($480 million), Osborne will say in a speech to delegates at the
Conservative Party’s annual conference in Manchester, northern
England. Claimants who fail to find work at the end of the
program will be forced to go to a government job center every
day, do full-time community work or attend a mandatory program
addressing the reason why they can’t find jobs, such as mental
health or literacy issues.  “No one will be ignored or left without help, but no one
will get something for nothing,” Osborne will say, according to
extracts of the speech released by his office. “Help to work --
and in return work for the dole. Because a fair welfare system
is fair to those who need it.”  Osborne is seeking to capitalize on the popularity of
welfare caps introduced as part of his  austerity plan  as the
Tories campaign for re-election in 2015. A YouGov Plc poll this
year showed the policy attracted support from almost three-quarters of Britain’s electorate. With unemployment at 7.7
percent, the chancellor is also counting on private-sector
hiring offsetting the 150,000 public-sector jobs a year the
government’s fiscal watchdog estimates will be lost until 2018.  Autumn Statement  The program will be funded by savings in other departments,
details of which will be revealed in his autumn statement in the
coming weeks, Osborne will say.  Prime Minister David Cameron told Parliament this month
that the number of workless households had fallen by 425,000 to
3.5 million since the election, thanks to policies aimed at
helping people off benefits and into work.  Nevertheless, Bank of  England  Governor Mark Carney
estimates that the economy will need to create at least 750,000
jobs before unemployment can reach 7 percent, the threshold at
which the Bank of England may start raising interest rates,
currently at a record low.  Book Reveals Split  A book on the coalition government’s first three years,
“In It Together,” published today, says Osborne and Work and
Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith split over the chancellor’s
2010 announcement that welfare payments to families would be
cut. Osborne had concluded that Duncan Smith wasn’t clever
enough to do his job, according to the book by Matthew D’Ancona.  While Britain’s economic recovery is gaining traction,
Osborne will say  risks to growth  remain and will pledge once
more to follow his deficit-cutting plan through.  “We can make the recovery a lasting one,” he will say.
“But it won’t happen by itself -- many risks remain. We have to
deal with our debts and see our plan through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London on  sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  