-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Burger Flipper, JPMorgan, SAC, Cinnabon
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-09-29T04:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/most-read-on-bloomberg-burger-flipper-jpmorgan-sac-cinnabon.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. At 77 He Flips Burgers Earning Former Hourly Wage in Week  Sept. 23 (Bloomberg) -- It seems like another life. At the
height of his corporate career, Tom Palome was pulling in a
salary in the low six-figures and flying first class on business
trips to  Europe .  2. JPMorgan Said to See $11 Billion Accord as Dimon Joins Talks  Sept. 26 (Bloomberg) -- JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s negotiations
with federal and state authorities to resolve a series of
investigations tied to mortgage bonds are focusing on a
potential $11 billion figure, including $4 billion for consumer
relief, a person familiar with the talks said.  3. SAC Said to Seek Settlement of U.S. Insider-Trading Cases  Sept. 24 (Bloomberg) -- Lawyers for hedge fund SAC Capital
Advisors LP reached out to prosecutors in  New York  last week to
say that founder  Steven Cohen  is interested in settling the
civil and criminal cases against him and his company, according
to people familiar with the matter.  4. Cinnabon 880-Calorie Cult Has Americans Licking Fingers:
Retail  Sept. 27 (Bloomberg) -- Cinnabon’s signature product is an
880-calorie cinnamon roll that the Dallas Observer has called a
“gut bomb.” It’s a swirly pillow of dough dripping with
cinnamon, brown sugar, margarine, and cream-cheese frosting.  5. Death Dinners at Baby Boomers’ Tables Take on Taboo Over
Dying  Sept. 24 (Bloomberg) -- At a Manhattan dinner party, former
Citigroup Inc. executive Steffen Landauer gathered an eclectic
mix of guests at his apartment off Fifth Avenue to sip pinot
noir, dine on seared salmon -- and talk about death.  6. Apple Sells Record 9 Million IPhones in Their Debut Weekend  Sept. 23 (Bloomberg) -- Apple Inc. sold a record 9 million
iPhones in the weekend debut of two new models, as the company
included  China  in the rollout and consumers snapped up handsets
with more colorful options and a fingerprint reader.  7. Soros to Goldman Poised to Win on Crisis Housing Bet:
Mortgages  Sept. 24 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and billionaire  George Soros  are poised for gains
from a housing bet placed in the depths of the financial crisis.  8. BlackBerry Agrees to $4.7 Billion Buyout Deal to Go Private  Sept. 23 (Bloomberg) -- BlackBerry Ltd. reached a tentative
agreement for a $4.7 billion buyout by a group led by its
biggest shareholder, forging a path to go private after years of
losing ground to Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Google Inc.’s Android.  9. Stocks at Risk With Government Shutdown Looming Before a
Default  Sept. 23 (Bloomberg) -- Even as the U.S. stock market roars
to new highs, helped last week by the  Federal Reserve , a risk is
rising from another corner of  Washington .  10. Deutsche Bank Said to Propose Creating Bond Platform With
Rivals  Sept. 26 (Bloomberg) -- Deutsche Bank AG is trying to drum
up interest with some of its largest competitors to create a
multi-dealer U.S. bond trading platform at the same time that
asset managers discuss ways to make buying and selling debt
easier, according to people familiar with the matter.  COLUMNS  1. Cotton-Candy IOS 7 Masks Potent Apple Upgrade:  Rich
Jaroslovsky   Sept. 26 (Bloomberg) -- Shiny new iPhones always get the
most attention. But it’s iOS 7, the updated version of Apple’s
mobile-device operating system, that will have the biggest
impact on users.  2. Does ’Grand Theft Auto V’ Mean the End of Hollywood?: Charles
Yu  Sept. 23 (Bloomberg) -- There’s a good chance you’ve heard:
“Grand Theft Auto V,” the latest installment of the storied
video game franchise, took in over $1 billion in its first week.
That’s more than any movie released this year, with the
exception of “Iron Man 3” (which happens to be the fifth
highest-grossing movie of all time). At this rate, “GTA V”
could be a nontrivial contributor to the U.S. gross domestic
product. It’s a cultural event. Even Apple Inc. should be
impressed.  3. Why France Shrugs at NSA Eavesdropping Revelations: Peter
Gumbel  Sept. 25 (Bloomberg) -- At the United Nations General
Assembly yesterday, Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  condemned
the surveillance of electronic communications around the globe
by the U.S. National Security Agency as a breach of individual
rights and national sovereignty.  4. Maybe  New Zealand  Has the Answer to Asset Bubbles: William
Pesek  Sept. 24 (Bloomberg) -- As the world’s biggest economies
search for ways to let the air out of giant asset bubbles, they
might find some answers in tiny New Zealand.  5. Republicans Cower as Cruz Makes His Last Stand:  Margaret
Carlson   Sept. 23 (Bloomberg) -- Move over Rand Paul.  Ted Cruz  may
be cruising to the biggest loss in his short career as a U.S.
senator and surpass you as the pre-eminent conservative in
Congress.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Boomers Find They Need to Work to Support Retirement  Sept. 23 (Bloomberg) -- At the height of his corporate
career Tom Palome was a vice president at Oral-B Laboratories,
earning a salary in the low six-figures. Today the 77-year-old
works two part-time jobs, at about $10 an hour, to support his
retired lifestyle. Bloomberg’s Emmitt Henry reports.  2. Ellison’s Team USA in Comeback Wins America’s Cup  Sept. 25 (Bloomberg) --  Larry Ellison ’s Oracle Team USA
completed the biggest comeback in the 162-year history of
America’s Cup sailing by beating Emirates Team New Zealand by 44
seconds in the deciding race of the regatta on  San Francisco
Bay , staving off elimination with eight straight wins. (Source:
NBC Sports Network)  3. Death Dinners Gain Traction in U.S. as Baby Boomers Age  Sept. 24 (Bloomberg) -- As dinner parties go, attending one
with a death theme might seem a little unusual. Bloomberg’s
Shannon Pettypiece reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  4. Oracle USA Ties America’s Cup 8-8 Against Emirates N.Z.  Sept. 25 (Bloomberg) -- Oracle Team USA won its seventh
straight race to tie the America’s Cup regatta at 8-8, setting
up a winner-takes-all final race tomorrow against Emirates Team
New Zealand on San Francisco Bay. (Video combines footage of
races 17 and 18. Source: SNTV)  5. The Billionaire Brothers Behind Chanel  Sept. 24 (Bloomberg) -- It’s Paris fashion week and all
eyes will be on Chanel’s  Karl Lagerfeld  who will debut the
luxury-goods company’s ready-to-wear collection. But it’s
Chanel’s owners who will walk in unnoticed. Bloomberg’s Tom
Metcalf reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  