-- LOT Boeing Dreamliner Heads for Warsaw Minus Passengers
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-09-30T09:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/lot-dreamliner-lands-in-iceland-on-identification-system-issue.html
A  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 operated by LOT
Polish Airlines SA headed for Warsaw minus its passengers after
the failure of a system that identifies planes to air-traffic
controllers forced an unscheduled landing in  Iceland  yesterday.  The flight from Toronto was grounded at Keflavik airport
near Reykjavik after being denied permission to enter Norwegian
airspace due to the defect. Two other planes were sent to
collect passengers and the stricken Dreamliner should resume
operations after its arrival in the Polish capital, LOT said.  “That was a minor fault and was fixed,” spokeswoman
Barbara Pijanowska-Kuras said. “The plane is coming back to
Warsaw. It will return to regular operations this afternoon.”  LOT is already in talks with Chicago-based Boeing over
compensation for losses during a three-month grounding of the
worldwide Dreamliner fleet with electrical faults earlier this
year. The unprofitable state-controlled carrier has bet on the
all-composite 787 to cut costs and help restore earnings.  “LOT has already made the proper arrangements and parts
and personnel are en route to address the issue and return the
airplane to flight status,” Boeing spokesman Doug Alder said
yesterday. “Boeing stands ready to help if asked.”  LOT, which currently operates five Dreamliners, reported
daily losses of $50,000 from the global grounding when its first
plane was stranded in  Chicago  after the inaugural flight. The
airline also found last week that two out of five jets were
missing oil filters, Pijanowska-Kuras said.  Norwegian Saga  The LOT incident follows  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS) ’s
announcement Sept. 28 that it is standing down one of its 787s
for repairs. The twin-engine jet will be out of service until
its reliability is satisfactory, with the company leasing an
Airbus SAS A340 to guarantee that all scheduled flights from
 Stockholm  to the U.S. and  Thailand  can be carried out.  “It has not performed the way a new aircraft should,
causing way too many delays for our passengers,” Oslo-based NAS
spokesman Lasse Sandaker-Nielsen said of the Dreamliner. The
airline’s first 787 is operating normally between Oslo, Bangkok
and New York, he said.  Norwegian Air is grappling with technical glitches on the
Dreamliner from cockpit oxygen supply issues that delayed a
flight to  New York  from Oslo on Sept. 22 to brake difficulties
that affected a plane in  Sweden  this month.  The 787, which made its commercial debut in 2011, has been
under scrutiny after regulators this year ordered the global
fleet idled to fix battery meltdowns. Last month, the plane
suffered a fresh setback after ANA Holdings Inc., the biggest
operator, discovered wiring defects in the fire-suppression
system on three aircraft.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  