-- House Passes Bill to Strengthen Security at U.S. Embassies
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-09-29T04:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/house-passes-bill-to-strengthen-security-at-u-s-embassies.html
The U.S. House passed a bill that
would authorize additional  Marines  to protect American
embassies, more expensive contracts for guarding overseas posts
and funding for  State Department  operations in fiscal 2014.  The $15.6 billion bill would match the White House request
for $2.65 billion in funds to improve embassy security.  “We need the Marines at the gate, we need to guard the
gate, it needs to be reinforced,” said House Foreign Affairs
Committee Chairman Ed Royce, a California Republican.  The closure of several U.S. embassies and consulates in
August “demonstrate the continued threat to our facilities and
personnel overseas,” he said during floor debate before the
House passed the measure 384-37.  The legislation builds on previous measures that provided
for increased security in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2012, attack
on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi,  Libya , 2012, that killed
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans. The vote
comes amid a budget impasse in Washington that could lead to a
government shutdown on Oct. 1.  Funding for an additional 156 Marines to guard overseas
posts would be authorized, as would construction of 26 access
points at high-risk posts, according to a  House Foreign Affairs
Committee  summary of the  bill . There are currently about 1,200
Marines guarding embassies and consulates, with another 1,000 in
the process of being moved into the Marine Security Guard
program.  Risky Posts  The State Department would be required to compile a list of
high-risk posts and ensure their security and funding needs are
met. The department also would be required to collaborate with
the  Pentagon  to draw up contingency plans for emergencies,
including rapid deployment of military forces.  Changes to security contracts for high-threat outposts
would be authorized, meaning the State Department would be
allowed to solicit what are known as best-value contracts, which
take into consideration a company’s past performance, expertise
and other non-financial factors that can end up costing more.
Current law says the State Department must accept the lowest-bid
contract that meets all necessary criteria.  The best-value contracts probably would apply to five high-threat posts, according to a Sept. 24  report  by the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office . Existing contracts at those posts
exceed $115 million, according to CBO, which estimates that new
contracts would cost 40 percent more.  Many of the embassy-security provisions come from H.R.
2723, a bill sponsored by Representative Eliot Engel of  New
York , the top Democrat on the Foreign Affairs Committee.  Other provisions in the bill would authorize $1.9 billion
for contributions to international peacekeeping activities,
compared with $2 billion enacted in 2013 before implementation
of the automatic spending cuts known as sequestration.  Another section would authorize $1.4 billion for
contributions to international organizations of which the U.S.
is a member. That compares with $1.55 billion in 2013 and the
$1.57 billion requested by the White House.  The bill is H.R. 2848.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  