-- House Votes to Delay Obamacare, Government Nears Shutdown
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n ,   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-09-29T04:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/house-votes-to-delay-obamacare-government-nears-shutdown.html
The Republican-led U.S. House voted
to attach a one-year delay of Obamacare to a must-pass spending
bill, dramatically raising the likelihood of a partial
government shutdown Oct. 1.  The 231-192 vote early this morning, mostly along party
lines, puts the House on a collision course with  Senate
Democrats  and President  Barack Obama , who say they won’t accept
Republicans’ conditions for keeping the government operating. It
is at least the fourth time in the past three years that
lawmakers have taken the U.S. to the brink of a fiscal crisis.  The vote marks a sharp turn for House Speaker  John Boehner 
and other Republican leaders, who earlier resisted taking a hard
line on Obama’s 2010 health-care law until they gave in to the
demands of a few dozen Tea Party-backed lawmakers.  “Let’s take a year and perfect, if you can, this bill,”
said Representative Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican. “To say
that what we’re after tonight is to shut down the government is
just not so.”  The action now returns to the Senate, where Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said the chamber will reject the
House amendment. He called the Republicans’ latest plan to gut
the health-care law “pointless.”  A last-minute deal before Oct. 1 is still achievable though
time is running out. One possible move is for both chambers to
pass a short-term funding measure -- for a few days to a week --
to keep the government open and leave more time for debate.  Medical Devices  The House plan would extend government funding through Dec.
15, a month longer than a plan passed by the Senate. The House
also amended the spending bill to repeal the 2.3 percent excise
tax on medical devices.  Seeking to deflect the blame for a shutdown,  House
Republicans  are set to pass a separate bill that would ensure
that U.S. troops, as well as some civilians and contractors who
work for the military, are paid if the government shuts down.  Concerns that the budget impasse will hurt economic growth
helped push the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its first weekly
decline since August. The index fell 0.4 percent to 1,691.75 on
Sept. 27 and dropped 1.1 percent for the week. The rate on 10-year Treasury notes fell three basis points to 2.62 percent.  Economic Growth  A shutdown could reduce fourth-quarter economic growth by
as much as 1.4 percentage points, depending on its duration,
according to economists. The biggest effect would come from the
output lost from furloughed workers.  Even if Congress resolves the spending fight, lawmakers
would immediately move to the next fiscal dispute over raising
the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling. Unless Congress acts, the U.S.
won’t have enough money to pay all of its bills at some point
between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  The House plan would postpone for one year a central
provision of Obamacare: the requirement that almost all
individuals obtain insurance. Tax subsidies scheduled to begin
Jan. 1, 2014, would start a year later, and the measure would
suspend some Obamacare taxes for the 2014 tax year.  The measure would allow employers with religious objections
to opt out of providing contraceptive coverage to employees for
a year.  While many Senate Democrats oppose the tax on medical
devices, that doesn’t mean they want to use the spending bill to
repeal it. The leading Senate advocate of ending the medical-device tax, Democrat  Amy Klobuchar  of  Minnesota , said she
opposed doing it through the spending bill.  Pelosi’s Absence  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of  California  opposed
the Republican plan in absentia; she was celebrating her 50th
wedding anniversary.  Budget brinkmanship has become routine in  Washington ,
particularly since Republicans gained control of the House in
the 2010 election.  The Senate passed a bill Sept. 27 that would fund the
government through Nov. 15, omitting Republican language to
choke off funds for the 2010 health-care law.  In a government shutdown, essential operations and programs
financed with permanent streams of money would continue, meaning
that Social Security checks would be delivered and military
personnel would still work. National parks, Internal Revenue
Service call centers and passport offices are among the federal
facilities that could close.  Supreme Court  House Republicans have voted more than 40 times to delay,
defund or repeal all or part of the 2010 health-care law, which
is designed to expand coverage to at least 30 million people.
Some of the narrower proposals became law. The U.S.  Supreme
Court  upheld the law in June 2012.  The first health-insurance exchanges open Oct. 1 and other
portions of the law already have taken effect.  At the White House, Obama accused House Republicans of
“political grandstanding” that has hurt economic growth.  “Do not shut down the government. Do not shut down the
economy,” Obama said Sept. 27. “Pass a budget on time. Pay our
bills on time. Refocus on the everyday concerns of the American
people.”  The spending bill is H.J. Res. 59. The troop funding bill
is H.R. 3210.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  