-- Record Defaults Seen on $40 Billion Recast Loans: India Credit
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-09-29T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/record-defaults-seen-on-40-billion-recast-loans-india-credit.html
Restructured loans are defaulting
at a record rate at Indian banks amid forecasts the worst
 economic  slowdown in a decade will deepen, according to the
investment banking unit of the nation’s biggest lender.  As much as 20 percent of renegotiated credit in  India ’s
banking system is now classified as in default, according to  SBI
Capital Markets Ltd.  Such loans, which give borrowers a
moratorium on payments, longer maturities or lower  interest
rates , more than doubled since 2009 to 2.5 trillion rupees ($40
billion) at the end of June, data from the Corporate Debt
Restructuring Mechanism show.  Bad loans are rising as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicts
 India’s economy  will grow 4 percent this fiscal year, after a 5
percent gain in the prior period that was the smallest since
2003. The yield on State Bank of India’s 9.95 percent rupee debt
due 2026 rose 74 basis points this quarter to 9.54 percent, the
most since the notes were issued in 2011. That on Bank of China
Ltd.’s 2020 dollar bonds fell 57 basis points to 4.09 percent.  “Nobody expected the slowdown to last this long while
recasting the debt,” Supratim Sarkar, head of structured
finance in Mumbai at SBI Capital, a unit of government-owned
 State Bank , said in an interview on Sept. 23. “Restructured
loans are slipping into the non-performing category at a faster
pace than ever before. I expect this to pick up further.”  Funding Costs  Asset quality at Indian banks is deteriorating as a surge
in funding costs hurts the repayment ability of businesses
already bearing the brunt of the economic slowdown. Five-year
bond yields for top-rated local companies have jumped 156 basis
points since the end of May to 9.82 percent, as the central bank
created a cash crunch to stem a plunge in the rupee. Three-month
commercial paper rates rose 150 basis points to 9.95 percent.  Soured debt swelled to 3.92 percent of total loans at the
end of June, the highest level in at least five years, from 3.4
percent at the end of March, RBI data show. The ratio was 6
percent for restructured credit. The increase is threatening to
erode earnings at Indian banks, which are required to set aside
more cash as risk provisions against non-performing assets.  Return on equity at local lenders, which tracks profit
generated with shareholders’ funds, may fall below 10 percent in
the year to March from a five-year low of 12.8 percent in the
previous period, Vibha Batra, co-head of financial-sector
ratings in  New Delhi  at a unit of Moody’s Investors Service,
said in an interview on Aug. 21.  ‘Limping Along’  “Indian banks are going through a difficult phase,”
Saurabh Mukherjea, chief executive officer for institutional
equities at Mumbai-based Ambit Capital Pvt., said in an
interview on Sept. 23. “Three years into a downturn if the
borrowers are limping along, it is only to be expected. This
will worsen if the cost of financing is rising.”  Moody’s Investors Service lowered this month the ratings on
State Bank’s senior unsecured debt and local-currency deposits
to Baa3 from Baa2. The rating company also cut the outlook on
the lender’s financial strength to negative from stable. The
credit assessor’s concern about State Bank is misplaced because
the lender has adequate capital, Mumbai-based Chief Financial
Officer Arundhati Bhattacharya said in a Sept. 24 phone
interview.  Bank bond risk in India is rising. Credit-default swaps
insuring State Bank’s debt against non-payment for five years
have risen 121 basis points from the year’s low of 174 in May,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts climbed 106 basis
points last month in the biggest surge since October 2008.  Stressed Assets  Fitch Ratings  cut state-owned Indian Bank’s debt ranking to
BB+ from BBB- on Sept. 23, while reducing the viability rating
of government-controlled Punjab National Bank and  Bank of Baroda 
to BB+ from BBB-.  “Fitch expects that asset quality at Indian banks,
particularly state-owned ones, will worsen, resulting in a
larger amount of stressed assets than initially forecast and the
amount would peak only in year ending March 2015,” analysts at
the ratings company led by Singapore-based Ambreesh Srivastava
said in a statement on the same day.  Restructured loans jumped 50 percent for the 10 largest
state-owned banks in twelve months to March 31, compared with a
36 percent increase in bad loans, according to Fitch. An average
7.2 percent of state-run lenders’ loans were restructured as of
March 31, central bank data show. The ratio was 4 percent on
average for the biggest private-sector banks, including ICICI
Bank Ltd. and HDFC Bank Ltd.  Rajan’s Plan  Raghuram Rajan , who took charge as India’s central bank
governor on Sept. 4, has said he will focus on strengthening the
financial industry and signaled measures to make it easier for
banks to curb bad loans and lend to non-state sectors of the
economy. He also called for a reduction in their requirement to
invest in government debt to free up more money for funding
companies and projects. The steps will have a “major long-term
impact” on the earnings of financial institutions, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The RBI also plans to ease restrictions on the expansion of
branch networks, according to Rajan.  India’s S&P BSE Bankex index, a gauge of 13 banking stocks,
surged 9.3 percent on Sept. 5, the biggest rally since May 2009,
after Rajan outlined plans to reinforce the financial system.  While the RBI’s proposals will help, policies with wider
economic impact such as steps to boost the infrastructure sector
and capital injections into state banks are required for bigger
improvements in the financial system, according to SBI Capital.  Lanco, Educomp  “The latest RBI measures stress on a clean-up of banks’
books but the big push can only come through bank
recapitalization,” SBI Capital’s Sarkar said. “As the
moratorium on interest payments gets over, more restructured
loans are falling into the non-performing category.”  SBI Capital is currently helping companies including Lanco
Infratech Ltd., Educomp Solutions Ltd. and Bombay Rayon Fashions
Ltd. recast loans, according to Sarkar. Banks have to set aside
more money as provisions for bad loans than restructured loans.  Yields on lenders’ local-currency bonds have climbed since
May. The rate on  five-year notes  ranked AAA by local companies
has increased to 9.64 percent from 7.96 percent as of May 31,
according to indicative rates compiled by Bloomberg.  Ten-year (GIND10YR) 
government yields added 146 basis points in the same period to
8.71 percent. The yield on the benchmark 7.16 percent sovereign
notes due May 2023 fell one basis point on Sept. 27, while the
rupee weakened 0.7 percent to 62.4975 per dollar.  The extra yield on State Bank’s bonds due 2017 over U.S.
Treasuries has climbed to 336 basis points from this year’s low
of 229 in February, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That on
ICICI Bank Ltd.’s 2018 debt rose to 346 from 242.  “The run rate of slippages from restructured loans at many
banks have crossed 30 percent,” Nitin Kumar, a Mumbai-based
banking analyst at Quant Broking Ltd., said in an interview
Sept. 27. “Our concern is that the ability of many of those
lenders to raise capital to absorb the mounting losses remains
constrained in current economic scenario.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  