-- Romania to Lower Key Rate for Third Meeting, Survey Shows
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-09-29T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/romania-to-lower-key-rate-for-third-meeting-survey-shows.html
Romania ’s central bank will
probably lower its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low for a
third meeting as inflation slows to within policy makers’ goal.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  will cut the rate today to
4.25 percent from 4.50 percent, according to 14 of 18 economists
in a Bloomberg  survey . Four see a half-point reduction. The
central bank will announce its decision after 11 a.m. in
Bucharest. Governor Mugur Isarescu will hold a briefing later.  Policy makers, who kept borrowing costs unchanged for more
than a year after a surge in inflation, resumed rate cuts in
July, with consumer-price growth poised to slow within their
target of 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent this month. The benchmark
rate will be lowered to 4 percent by year-end, according to
 Daniel Hewitt , an economist at Barclays Plc in  London .  The central bank “will continue cutting at its next two
meetings,” Hewitt said in a note. “This would be the lowest
level ever, but it is justified, we believe, by lower global
interest rates and apparent declines in underlying inflation.”  The leu has weakened 0.3 percent this year against the
euro, the second-best performance behind  Bulgaria ’s Lev among 24
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Hungary, Poland  Eastern European policy makers are diverging as their
economies show varying degrees of recovery.  Hungary ’s central
bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a record-low 3.6 percent
Sept. 24, while Poland kept its main rate at a record low of 2.5
percent Sept. 4. The  Czech Republic , where borrowing costs are
effectively zero, refrained from announcing further policy
easing through koruna sales at a meeting last week as its
economy recovers from a record-long recession.  As the end of the euro region’s 1 1/2-year slump buoys
exports, Romania’s economy will expand 1.9 percent in 2013, the
government predicts. The central bank cut borrowing costs by a
total of 75 basis points in July and August after halting rate
reductions last March as a drought stoked inflation.  Consumer-price growth, which slowed to 3.7 percent from a
year earlier in August, will probably decelerate to 3 percent
this month after the government trimmed the value-added tax for
bread to 9 percent from 24 percent, according to the bank’s
 projections . The inflation rate will drop to 3.1 percent by
year-end, remaining at that level in 2014, it  predicts .  Since August, “inflation has started to fall back, and we
expect it to return to the central bank’s 2.5 percent target
over the coming months,” Capital Economics Ltd. said in a note
to clients. “We expect a 25 basis-point cut in interest rates
this month, which will probably be followed by one more cut
before the end of the year.”  -- With assistance from Barbara Sladkowska in Warsaw. Editors:
Andrew Langley, Agnes Lovasz  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  