-- Rouhani Enjoys Iran Backing That Matters as Foes Reject Call
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-09-30T14:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/rouhani-has-iran-backing-that-counts-as-foes-reject-obama-call.html
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani,
whose public support after a trip to the U.S. outweighed the
detractors who tried to pelt his convoy with eggs, also has
backing from where it matters most: Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei .  After he returned from a trip to New York to attend the
 United Nations General Assembly , dozens of people tried to block
Rouhani’s way, chanting anti-U.S. slogans. The demonstrators
were upset at a 15-minute phone call with President  Barack Obama 
on Sept. 27, which marked the highest-level encounter between
the two governments since before Iran’s Islamic revolution of
1979.  With fewer protesters than supporters, and praise from
Tehran-based newspapers and state television programs, Rouhani
may have the backing needed to pursue his diplomatic overture,
including the crucial support of Khamenei, who has the final say
on all state matters. Protesters, some whom carried signs saying
“negotiations with the Great Satan at what price?” were
outnumbered by about three-to-one, according to images on state
TV and on the website of state-run Mehr news agency.  “A decision has been taken by the Iranian establishment to
move in the direction of dialogue with the U.S.,” said Mahjoob
Zweiri, a professor of Middle East politics at Qatar University
in Doha. “ Iran  knows that the source of trouble is  Washington 
and believes that as long as it speaks to Washington there will
be hope for a solution.”  Military Action  Iran’s pursuit of nuclear technology has led Obama and his
allies in  Europe  to squeeze the country’s economy with tighter
sanctions, which led to oil output falling to the lowest level
since 1990. The U.S. and  Israel  have also threatened military
action to prevent the Islamic republic from obtaining nuclear
weapons. Iran denies that it’s seeking to do so.  It was his pledge to resolve this dispute and revive an
economy struggling with a currency crisis that helped propel
Rouhani into the presidency. The election of the former nuclear
negotiator helped the Iranian rial recover after losing more
than half of its dollar value in the 12 months before his
surprising first-round win in June.  West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark crude, has
dropped 5.6 percent in September, putting it on course for its
first monthly decline since May, as concern receded that the
U.S. would attack  Syria , an ally of Iran, over its use of
chemical weapons and after Rouhani told the UN his nation was
ready to enter talks “without delay.”  Throwing Eggs  From the outset, his challenge has been to strike a balance
between delivering on his pledges and avoiding the appearance of
a weak leader compromising on Iran’s rights, a position that
would offer ammunition for politicians who are against any
rapprochement with the U.S.  The conversation with Obama “was mainly about the nuclear
issue,” Rouhani told reporters at Tehran’s airport, according
to the state-run Mehr news agency. “I told him this program is
not only the right of Iranians but also their pride and the U.S.
president acknowledged this.”  About a hundred supporters cheered the Iranian president as
he returned, according to Mehr. A smaller number tried to block
his way, most of them young members of the Basij militia, a
volunteer auxiliary force controlled by the Revolutionary Guard
Corps, Mehr reported. One of the protesters threw a shoe at
Rouhani’s car and the Shargh daily said some attempted to throw
eggs at him.  Chance Encounter  Rouhani “enjoys support from the populous who voted for
him and the politicians who are within his leanings, but like in
any other body politique, there are many different schools of
thought, so there are his detractors,” said  Theodore Karasik ,
director of research at the Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis in Dubai.  What matters most is the support Rouhani enjoys from
Khamenei, “which makes all the difference in the world,”
Karasik said. Apart from the favorable reaction from the media,
Khamenei has also refrained from criticizing the soft-spoken
cleric for his conversation with Obama.  History suggests that such an encounter wouldn’t have
happened without the consent of the Supreme Leader. Former U.S.
President  Bill Clinton  had tried to stage a chance meeting at
the UN General Assembly with then-Iranian President Mohammad Khatami, according to “The Twilight War” by U.S. historian
David Crist.  Concerned that the Iranian leader didn’t have Khamenei’s
blessing, his aides spirited him out from a different exit.
Clinton, in an interview yesterday with ABC’s “This Week with
 George Stephanopoulos ,” said he had hoped for a similar
opportunity that was afforded to Obama.  ‘Promises on Credit’  Yet just as he is under pressure from Western powers to
prove that his pledges are more than words, Rouhani faces a
chorus of hardliners at home, eager to show that he came back
with nothing more than empty promises.  “Beyond the extreme and optimistic excitement, the
suitcase of the Iranian delegation upon its return didn’t have
much in it aside from a handful of promises on credit,” the
 Kayhan  newspaper wrote in its editorial yesterday. The Raja News
website described the exchange between the two presidents as a
“strange, useless action void of results.” This contact
endangered “the most important asset of the Iranian nation, its
revolutionary brand.”  Republican Guards chief Major General Mohammad Ali Jafari,
while backing Rouhani’s overall remarks and actions in  New York 
as “in line with Khamenei and the regime’s policies,”
disapproved of the phone exchange.  ‘Powerful Stance’  “The president displayed a powerful and appropriate stance
during this trip,” Jafari said in an interview with the  Tasnim 
news agency today. “It would have been preferable, in the same
way that no time was dedicated for a face-to-face meeting with
Obama, to not accept the phone call with him either and to
postpone this until after the U.S. takes practical actions and
the sincerity of its deeds can be gauged.”  Karasik, who said incidents involving eggs and shoe
throwing in Iran are rare, raised the possibility that the
protests were “staged” by the president’s opponents. “They
were trying to make a spectacle and succeeded,” he said.  The Iranian rial briefly appreciated to 29,700 against the
 U.S. dollar  in unregulated trading after the announcement of the
phone exchange from 30,600 rials. It later weakened to 30,300 at
2 p.m. local time today, according to figures compiled by Daily
Rates for Gold Coins & Foreign Currencies, a Facebook page used
by traders and companies in Iran and abroad. The currency is
still 19 percent stronger than the day before Rouhani’s election
victory.  ‘Ugly Move’  The support Rouhani currently enjoys may not be unlimited,
according to Zweiri, the Qatar University professor. In an
interview two days ago with Fars news agency, Kayhan’s editor-in-chief, Hossein Shariatmadari, said Rouhani’s interaction with
Obama was an “ugly” move. Kayhan’s head is appointed by
Khamenei.  “This may have been Shariatmadari speaking as the editor-in-chief of the newspaper or he may have been speaking on behalf
of Khamenei indicating that ‘our eyes are on you’,” Zweiri
said. “The Supreme Leader does not want to give the impression
that Rouhani has everything in his own hands.”  While “fortunes can change quickly,” Rouhani’s
“detractors seem to be at the fringe” for now, Karasik said.  In a meeting with top officials, former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said that while “hasty opinions” should be
avoided, what has transpired from the president’s trip is the
“start of a fair way to overcome pretexts and solve Iran’s
foreign policy problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  