-- Siemens CEO Kaeser Cuts 15,000 Jobs to Catch Up With GE
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-09-30T08:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/siemens-to-eliminate-15-000-jobs-to-achieve-cost-cutting-targets.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ’s new Chief Executive
Officer Joe Kaeser is widening job cuts from an initial plan
after the failure to catch up in profitability with rivals
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  cost his predecessor the job.  The company will eliminate 15,000 posts, representing 4
percent of its 370,000 workers worldwide, and a third of the
reduction will come in the German home market, Oliver Santen, a
Siemens spokesman, said by phone yesterday. He declined to give
more regional details. Siemens,  Europe ’s largest engineering
company, had first projected some 8,000 job cuts globally, a
person familiar with the program told Bloomberg in October 2012.  Former CEO  Peter Loescher  lost his post following a July 25
announcement that the Munich-based company won’t meet a goal of
profit representing 12 percent of sales next year. The target
involved 6.3 billion euros ($8.5 billion) in savings at Siemens,
which has faced mounting charges for failed power and train
projects.  “If you see a billion euros in charges this year, that
pretty much lines up with 15,000 job cuts,” Andreas Willi, a
London-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. who has a neutral
 recommendation  on Siemens stock, said by phone yesterday.
“There have been charges in drive technologies, power
generation and transmissions, so you expect them to bear the
weight.”  60 Units  The company has 60 sub-units that make products including
trains, gas turbines, medical scanners and factory-automation
gear. The manufacturer raised its forecast in July for charges
associated with the Siemens 2014 efficiency program to 1 billion
euros for this fiscal year from an earlier prediction of 900
million euros. The costs may increase by a further 100 million
euros, Kaeser told analysts at the time.  In  Germany , 2,000 employees at the industry division, 1,400
energy-sector workers and 1,400 in the infrastructure and cities
unit will have to leave, Santen said. Another 200 administrative
roles will also be terminated by the end of September 2014.  About half of the job cuts have already been implemented,
while the rest are still being negotiated with unions and will
include early retirements.  Siemens  fell  as much as 1.3 percent to 88.70 euros and was
trading down 0.9 percent as of 10:04 a.m. in  Frankfurt . That
reduced the gain this year to 12 percent, valuing the company at
78.4 billion euros.  Investor Confidence  Kaeser, who was promoted to lead the company in August
after holding the chief financial officer position for seven
years, is working to regain investor confidence following five
forecast cuts and a 22 percent stock decline in his predecessor
Loescher’s six-year tenure.  The latest forecast was cut after a majority of units said
in their internal predictions that they will probably miss their
goals, two people familiar with the matter said at the time. The
gap in so-called sector profit between the forecast and the
actual numbers was about 1.5 billion euros, one person said.  While still CFO, Kaeser said he expected to complete
disposals of businesses including airport luggage systems, mail
automation and water technology in the fiscal year starting Oct.
1. The divestments follow the spinning off of the  Osram Licht AG (OSR) 
lighting unit and the sale of a 50 percent stake in the Nokia
Siemens Networks venture.  Siemens had a profit  margin  of 9.5 percent in fiscal 2012,
while ABB and General Electric had margins of 10.3 percent and
15 percent, respectively. The German company’s reorganization
costs in the third quarter ended June 30 totaled 436 million
euros, with the infrastructure and cities business accounting
for 41 percent of that amount and the industry unit for 32
percent.  In August, Siemens’s debt was downgraded by  Fitch Ratings ,
which cited an accelerating decline in the manufacturer’s
margins in the most recent quarter and “insufficient progress”
on restructuring measures. The appointment of Kaeser as CEO is a
“positive development,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  