-- Silly Beethoven Gets Butchered by Opera Nut: Review
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-09-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/silly-beethoven-gets-butchered-by-opera-nut-review.html
Singers have become lab rats for
directors.  That’s the impression given by Calixto Bieito’s amusingly
awful new production of Beethoven’s “Fidelio” at  English
National Opera . He sets the piece in a vertical, neon-lit maze
created from scaffolding and platforms. The singers wriggle
themselves up and down the maze through gaps, just like mice.  A program note helpfully explains that it’s a “metaphor
for the characters’ psychological struggle.” Considering
there’s zero psychology on display, that’s a bit hopeful.  The decontextualized protagonists arrive in contemporary
dress, emote without any ostensible cause, and then hang around
in a corner of the maze.  The opera is usually about a plucky woman who dresses as a
man to rescue her unjustly incarcerated husband from prison.
Foiling attempts to follow the plot, here the libretto’s
dialogue is cut and replaced with obfuscating scraps of poetry.  The score is chopped up too, and a butchered movement of
Beethoven’s string quartet Op. 132 is performed by an ensemble
hanging in cages above the set. (Program note: “It’s a
validation of culture’s role to inspire and console.” Who’d
have guessed?)  Giggling Psychopath  The noble deus-ex-machina figure of Don Fernando is
presented as a giggling 18th-century psychopath who shoots the
hero Florestan instead of welcoming him.  Yes, we get the irony. Redemption is an illusion, freedom a
lie, and Beethoven’s belief in humanity was wrong, wrong, wrong.
Thanks for those amazingly fresh insights, Calixto.  In an otherwise patchy cast, Stuart Skelton sings Florestan
beautifully and with untiring power. Emma Bell makes a good
Leonore, even if her lower notes lack oomph.  Edward Gardner 
conducts crisply and cleanly.  It doesn’t help. If anything, it makes the tired old
cliches on stage seem all the mouldier. Rating: *  Huge Triumph  It’s a million emotional miles away from the  Royal Opera’s 
revival of  Richard Strauss ’s “Elektra,” starring sensational
American soprano Christine Goerke.  Her voice is excitingly huge and lustrous, and her
portrayal of Elektra’s bloodthirsty monomania -- she wants her
mother killed in revenge for the death of her father -- is
scalp-prickling.  Director  Charles Edwards  sets the action in a chilling
world of crumbling Art Nouveau decadence, Andris Nelsons
conducts with incandescent power, and the cast is uniformly
superb. Not a cliche in sight. Rating: *****  There’s another excellent performance at the  Duchess
Theatre : Henry Goodman in Bertolt Brecht’s “The Resistible Rise
of Arturo Ui.”  The 1941 piece, about Chicago mobsters, is a farcical
satire on the rise of Hitler. Goodman has a ball with the role
of Arturo, and shows him developing from a weasely hoodlum with
a squeaky Brooklyn accent into a suave-tongued monster in a top
hat and tails.  He’s plausible, amusing, and terrifying at the same time,
and he’s backed up by tight, detailed work from the rest of the
cast and a fine period-costume production from Jonathan Church.  The play itself becomes preachy, as you might expect from a
doctrinaire Marxist author who kept a nice Swiss bank account.
That said, it could hardly be better done, and Goodman is awe-inspiring. Rating: ***1/2  “Fidelio” is in repertoire at English National Opera.
 http://www.eno.org  or +44-20-7845-9300  “Elektra” is in repertoire at the Royal Opera.
 http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000  “The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui” is at the Duchess
Theatre.  http://www.nimaxtheatres.com  or +44-844-412-4659  Muse highlights include Mark Beech on rock CDs and  John
Mariani  on wine.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 