-- Somalia President Says Mall Attack Group Threatens World
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-09-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/somalia-president-says-mall-attack-group-threatens-world.html
Somali President Hassan Sheikh Mohamoud said the al-Qaeda linked group al-Shabaab that besieged
a Nairobi shopping mall is embracing guerrilla attacks as part
of an “international jihadist agenda” and poses a global
threat.  Somalia-based al-Shabaab, whose Sept. 21 mall attack in
neighboring  Kenya  killed at least 67 people, is changing tactics
after losing territory they held as a more conventional force,
Mohamoud said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” show. The Islamist
group preys on a lost generation of “desperate boys” who are
vulnerable because of the dysfunctional nation’s extreme
poverty, he said.  “They proved that they are a threat to the world,”
Mohamoud said. The ideologically motivated leadership recruits
local young boys “who have not the tools of life” and are
attracted by “adventure into al-Shabaab,” he said.  Al-Shabaab has been fighting Somalia’s government since at
least 2006 to establish an Islamic state and impose Shariah law
in the Horn of Africa nation. The group targeted Kenya after
that country’s army invaded Somalia in October 2011 to help
 African Union  peacekeepers and Ethiopian forces battling al-Shabaab.  “Al-Shabaab has lost the military front” to African Union
and Kenyan forces, Mohamoud said. “When they lost the military,
they melted down into the society and then they started”
watching people in the streets. “And there they attack.”  The Somali leader said that the military struggle against
the group is becoming a civilian effort in which the nation is
trying to re-establish order by rehabilitating those who joined
the movement with jobs and education.  ‘Very Difficult’  “Many of these boys, they are not employable because they
lack skills, so the government is working on that,” he said.
“On top of that, a functioning state in place that controls the
territory is prerequisite for the elimination of Shabaab.
Without a state that controls the Somali territory, it would be
very, very difficult to defeat completely Shabaab.”  Mohamoud has survived multiple assassination attempts by
al-Shabaab beginning two days after his election in September
2012, when he escaped two suicide blasts outside his temporary
office in Mogadishu as he met with Kenyan Foreign Minister Sam Ongeri. The latest attack was Sept. 3, when insurgents fired on
Mohamoud’s motorcade in the port town of Merka.  Militants in the Nairobi mall attack sprayed automatic
gunfire, threw grenades and seized hostages. Five U.S. citizens
were among those injured, according to the State Department,
which re-issued a  warning  yesterday against travel to Kenya.  Retaliation Threat  The attack fulfilled a threat the militants made two years
ago to retaliate over Kenya’s military intervention to back
Somalia’s government. The U.S. designated al-Shabaab, whose full
name means Mujahedeen Youth Movement, as a terrorist
organization in 2008.  Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility in July 2010 for twin
bomb attacks that killed 76 people watching the soccer  World Cup 
final in  Uganda , which it targeted because the country has
troops serving in Somalia’s African Union peacekeeping force.  The Horn of African nation is rebuilding its economy from
scratch after taking control of rebel-held territory over the
past two years, bringing a measure of stability to the country.  Somali lawmakers elected Mohamoud president a year ago in
the 16th attempt to establish an effective central government
since the ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991. Prior
administrations failed to stem clan-based fighting, defeat
Islamist insurgents and halt piracy off the country’s coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  