-- Spain Said to Plan Minimum Cuts Proposed by Pension Panel
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-09-30T11:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/spain-said-to-plan-minimum-cuts-proposed-by-pension-panel.html
Spain ’s government will cut its
pension-system deficit by the minimum recommended by the expert
 panel  it appointed to provide guidance on the overhaul,
according to a draft law sent to parliament.  The government will tighten the shortfall by 25 percent per
year, compared with the 25 percent to 33 percent range
recommended by the  task force  on June 7, according to the bill
sent to parliament on Sept. 27 and seen by  Bloomberg News . It
will start those cuts from 2019, compared with the experts’
recommendation of 2014 to 2019.  A Labor Ministry spokeswoman, who asked not to be named in
line with policy, said the bill will be discussed in parliament
tomorrow. She declined to comment further.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , facing a slump in popularity,
is raiding Spain’s welfare-reserve fund for the second year to
maintain pension payments even as the nation’s 26 percent
jobless rate undermines the social-security system’s finances.
The government is tightening pension rules to comply with
recommendations from the European Union, which is overseeing the
country’s bank-bailout program and trying to steer its public
finances back to health.  Pension Deficit  Spain’s total public deficit was 6.8 percent of gross
domestic product last year, excluding the cost of bailing out
banks. The national social-security system, which includes the
pension system, had a deficit of 1 percent of GDP last year, or
10 billion euros ($13.5 billion). The European Commission has
given Spain until 2016 to reduce the total deficit to below 3
percent of GDP.  While the so-called sustainability factor doesn’t come into
force until 2019, rules on how much pensions can rise take
effect next year. The draft sets a range for possible pension
adjustments with a floor of 0.25 percent and an upper limit 0.25
percentage points above the previous year’s inflation rate.  Spain will spend 127 billion euros, or about 12 percent of
its GDP, on pensions next year, according to budget details
released today.  The pensions bill will be discussed by lawmakers on the
cross-party pension committee and approved by parliament, where
the ruling  People’s Party  has a majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  