-- Stocks or Rent Choice Spurs Sales by Individuals: Korea Markets
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-09-30T07:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/stocks-or-rent-choice-spurs-sales-by-individuals-korea-markets.html
When Choi Jong Hyun found his 50
million won ($46,415) annual salary wasn’t enough to cover the 8
percent jump in rent for his  Seoul  apartment, he decided to cut
back on  stock  investments rather than take on debt.  “I would rather cash out the stocks I now hold and not pay
additional interest,” Choi, 32, who works in the financial
industry and has about 50 million won of investments, said by
phone on Sept. 24.  Investors like Choi are exiting South  Korea ’s stock market
as rental costs climb to the highest level since at least 1986
and  household debt  rises to a record. Individuals sold a net 3.1
trillion won of shares in September, the most in nine months,
while trading of Kospi index stocks  fell  to a six-year low,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The retreat by those investors, who accounted for about 45
percent of the nation’s equity trading this month, threatens to
limit gains in the Kospi, which has rallied 8 percent since the
end of June, according to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Hanwha Investment &
Securities Co. (003530)  Consumer confidence sank to a five-month low in
September, even after a rebound in exports fueled the fastest
economic growth in two years last quarter.  “Local participation is quite low,” Chanik Park, the
Seoul-based head of Korea equity research at Barclays, said by
phone on Sept. 24. “Consumer sentiment and investor sentiment
at this moment is not that positive.”  Kospi Rally  The Kospi climbed 4.4 percent in September to 2,011.80
through last week, bringing its gain this year to 0.7 percent.
The won strengthened 3.4 percent to 1,073.65 this month through
Sept. 27, while the cost of protecting the nation’s sovereign
debt against nonpayment using credit default swaps fell 10 basis
points to 76, according to CMA. The yield on the nation’s five-year government bonds fell five basis points to 3.06 percent
last week. The benchmark gauge closed 0.7 percent lower today at
1,996.96.  Foreign investors have fueled the Kospi’s rally as data
showed the economy expanded 1.1 percent in the three months
through June and exports jumped at a quicker-than-estimated 7.7
percent rate in August. International money managers plowed a
net $7 billion into South Korean shares this month, the most on
record, according to exchange data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kospi is  valued  at 1.06 times net assets, a 47 percent discount
to the MSCI All-Country World Index.  “Local retail investors are likely to return to the equity
market by the end of this year when the economic uncertainties
are cleared and this year’s corporate profit figures are
released,” Cho Seong Joon, a Seoul-based strategist at NH
Investment & Securities Co., said by phone on Sept. 27.  Accelerating Sales  For now, sales by individual investors are accelerating.
Outflows this month were more than twice as large as the 1.4
trillion won of withdrawals during the first eight months of the
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 100-day average value
traded of Kospi shares declined to 4.03 trillion won on Sept.
27, the lowest level since June 2007.  “Individual investors will be the group that could drive
up trading volumes but this won’t be easy,” Kang Hyun Cheol, a
strategist at Woori Investment & Securities Co., said in a
telephone interview in Seoul on Sept. 25.  Individuals have low confidence and are also reluctant to
buy as Kospi has struggled to pass a resistance level at 2,050,
Kang said. The benchmark gauge has  approached  that level at
least six times during the past two years before resuming
declines, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Household Debt  Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said on Sept. 25 that
household spending is weak due to high levels of debt.  Consumer
confidence  fell to the lowest level since April this month,
according to the  Bank of Korea . Home loans and credit extended
to households increased 1.8 percent in the second quarter to a
record 980 trillion won, the monetary authority said in an e-mailed statement on Aug. 22.  Lee Won Tae plans to start selling his 40 million won of
equity investments to repay debt before  interest rates  rise. The
42-year-old senior manager at CJ Systems Co., an information
technology service provider, took out a 200 million won mortgage
four years ago to buy a three-room apartment in Mokdong, an
eastern Seoul neighborhood known for its cram schools.  South Korea ’s central bank, which kept its  benchmark
interest rate  at 2.5 percent for a fourth straight month on
Sept. 12, will probably increase it to 3 percent by the end of
2014, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  ‘Time to Exit’  “I’m eying a good time to exit,” said Lee, who earns
about 100 million won a year and has two elementary school
children. “I can barely support my family as I want my wife to
take care of kids at home. Our budget will become much tighter
as the kids grow.”  Younger professionals are also exiting the stock market as
rental costs rise. Kookmin Bank’s index of lump-sum deposits
used to pay rent in Seoul, known as Jeonse, climbed to a record
102.5 in August, the highest level since the lender began
tracking the data in 1986.  The average Jeonse rent for Seoul apartments has increased
for 12 straight months to 280 million won as of August,
according to the Korea Appraisal Board.  Lee Jong Kyeong, 31, sold about 30 million won of shares
and an exchange-traded fund when taking out a  bank loan  to pay
the deposit for renting an apartment in central Seoul this year.  “Without any additional income, I had to cash out of my
stocks,” said Lee, who works at a financial company in the
capital. “I didn’t see significant returns on the shares that I
own anyway.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  