-- Stockland Says More Supply to Temper Australia Home Price Gains
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-09-29T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/stockland-says-more-supply-to-temper-australia-home-price-gains.html
Stockland (SGP) ,  Australia ’s biggest
diversified property trust, said rising housing supply in
Australia’s state capitals will help temper price increases that
have accelerated in the cities since the start of the year.  “Inner city markets generally have strengthened
considerably and that’s all about supply constraints,” Mark Steinert, chief executive officer of the Sydney-based company,
told yesterday’s Inside Business television program according to
a transcript. “You are seeing apartments and high-density
coming in to address that demand in a lot of the capital cities,
particularly in Sydney and Melbourne and Brisbane, so I think
that will even see some tempering.”  House and apartment prices across Australia’s biggest
cities rose 5 percent in the year to Aug. 31, according to the
RP Data-Rismark Home Value index. Prices in Sydney may surge by
as much as 20 percent in 2014, as record-low  interest rates 
drive demand amid short supply, according to Sydney-based SQM
Research Pty. Across the nation’s major cities, prices could
jump as much as 11 percent on average, assuming no more than one
interest-rate cut of 25 basis points by the central bank, SQM
said.  In metropolitan locations such as Sydney and Perth, pent-up
demand as well as under-supply of new housing have driven up
prices, Steinert told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s Inside
Business. “Governments have worked pretty hard to change that,
to fast-track urban growth corridors. I’m definitely not
concerned about a bubble.”  Loans Climb  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s 2.5 percent benchmark rate
has pushed the country’s average standard variable mortgage rate
down to 5.95 percent, the lowest in more than four years. The
number of loans approved for the purchase of new homes climbed a
seasonally adjusted 43 percent from a year earlier in July,
government data showed.  Stockland, which saw profit plunge 79 percent in the 12
months to June 30 amid weakness in its residential division, is
seeking to take advantage of a turnaround in Australia’s housing
market. It began sales last week on its 350-hectare (865-acre)
Willowdale development in Denham Court, a southwest Sydney
suburb, amid a 7.8 percent surge in detached  house prices  across
the city in the eight months to Aug. 31, based on RP Data
figures.  The first two stages at Willowdale, with 95 lots, sold out
on the day sales started, and Stockland is planning a third
release next month, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Steinert, who took over as managing director from Matthew Quinn in January, backed away from his predecessor’s strategy of
building only detached housing, saying he will begin developing
medium-density residential projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  