-- Suarez Scores Twice as Liverpool Beats Sunderland; Norwich Wins
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-29T17:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/suarez-scores-twice-as-liverpool-beats-sunderland-norwich-wins.html
Luis Suarez  scored two goals on his
return to English Premier League soccer action as Liverpool won
3-1 at Sunderland. Norwich beat Stoke 1-0.  Daniel Sturridge  and Suarez scored in the 28th and 36th
minutes, respectively, Emanuele Giaccherini getting one back in
the 52nd. Suarez added a third Liverpool goal in the 89th minute
as the Reds went second in the table, two points behind Arsenal.  Suarez was returning to league action after a 10-game ban
for biting an opponent. It was Sunderland’s first league game
since the firing of coach Paolo Di Canio. He was dismissed Sept.
22 after the team picked up only one point from the first five
league games.  Sunderland, the only team without a Premier League win,
stays bottom of the standings.  Jonny Howson got Norwich’s goal in the 34th minute at Stoke
today as his team clinched a second league win. His low shot
beat goalkeeper Asmir Begovic’s dive as Stoke paid the price for
being sloppy in possession.  Norwich moves over Stoke to 14th place on goal difference.  Yesterday, Arsenal moved two points ahead at the top of the
table with a 2-1 win at Swansea. Arsenal has 15 points, followed
by Liverpool and Tottenham on 13, Chelsea and Southampton on 11,
and  Manchester City  and Hull on 10.  Defending champion  Manchester United  was upset 2-1 at home
by West Brom yesterday, and has seven points from six games, its
worst start for 24 years. Manchester City lost 3-2 at  Aston
Villa , and Chelsea drew 1-1 at Tottenham. Fulham lost 2-1 at
home to Cardiff, Hull defeated West Ham 1-0, and Southampton had
a 2-0 victory over Crystal Palace.  Everton, the only unbeaten team in the league, hosts
Newcastle tomorrow.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  