-- Suarez Scores Two on League Return as Liverpool Beats Sunderland
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-29T23:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/suarez-scores-two-on-league-return-as-liverpool-beats-sunderland.html
Luis Suarez  scored twice on his
Premier League soccer return as Liverpool won 3-1 at Sunderland
to go second in the standings. Norwich beat Stoke 1-0.  Daniel Sturridge  opened the scoring in the 28th minute at
the Stadium of Light yesterday before Suarez scored eight
minutes later. Emanuele Giaccherini got one back for the home
team before Suarez added an 89th-minute goal as the Reds moved
within two points of leader Arsenal.  Suarez, who made his comeback from a 10-game ban for biting
an opponent in Liverpool’s midweek League Cup defeat at
Manchester United, was returning to Premier League action for
the first time since April 21.  “He’s getting the reward for his hard work over the period
that he was off,” Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  said of
Suarez in a televised interview. “Him and Daniel up front are a
real, real handful. They combined very well.”  Sturridge opened the scoring when he bundled the ball in
from a corner kick. Sunderland defenders complained that the
ball went in off his arm, and the striker later said it had done
so accidentally.  Suarez made it 2-0 by tapping in after Sturridge slid the
ball across from the right. The Uruguayan forward celebrated by
showing a T-shirt picturing his new-born son Benjamin.  Liverpool goalkeeper Simon Mignolet saved from  Craig
Gardner  and  Adam Johnson  shot over for the home team before it
got a goal back. Mignolet could only push out Ki Sung-Yueng’s
shot and Giaccherini pounced on the ball to score.  Suarez made the game safe for the Reds when he tapped in
from another Sturridge pass.  ‘Exceptional’  “On the back of a really tough game where we played well
during the week, today was always going to be a physically
demanding game for us,” Rodgers said. “The work we put into it
was exceptional.”  Sunderland, the only team without a win in English soccer’s
elite division, stayed in last place. It was the club’s first
league match since it fired manager Paolo Di Canio on Sept. 22.  “We took it right to the death, but unfortunately you’re
susceptible to that counterattack,” Sunderland’s caretaker
manager Kevin Ball said. “Three-one, and I don’t mean this as
disrespect to Liverpool, flatters them a little bit.”  Jonny Howson scored in the 34th minute at Stoke yesterday
as Norwich clinched its second league win. Howson’s low shot
from outside the penalty area dipped and swerved to beat
goalkeeper Asmir Begovic.  Norwich moved above Stoke into 14th place on goal
difference, with both teams on seven points.  Arsenal Leads  Two days ago, Arsenal moved into first place with 15 points
after a 2-1 win at Swansea. Liverpool and Tottenham have 13
points ahead of Chelsea and Southampton with 11, and  Manchester
City  and Hull with 10.  Defending champion  Manchester United  was upset 2-1 at home
by West Bromwich Albion and has seven points from six games, its
worst start for 24 years. Manchester City lost 3-2 at  Aston
Villa  and Chelsea drew 1-1 at Tottenham. Fulham lost 2-1 at home
to Cardiff, Hull City defeated West Ham United 1-0, and
Southampton had a 2-0 victory over Crystal Palace.  Everton, the only unbeaten team in the league, hosts
 Newcastle United  tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  