-- U.K. House Prices Surge Most Since 2007 as Demand Rises
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-09-30T09:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/u-k-house-prices-surge-most-since-2007-as-demand-increases.html
U.K. house prices  rose the most in
more than six years this month amid a continued increase in
demand that’s being partly driven by government measures.  Average values in England and  Wales  rose 0.5 percent, the
most since May 2007, after a 0.4 percent gain in August, London-based property researcher Hometrack said in a statement today.
Annual price inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent.  Prime Minister David Cameron defied critics of “Help to
Buy” yesterday, saying the second phase of the plan aimed at
helping prospective buyers will start next week, three months
earlier than planned. The program has drawn criticism that it
may help fuel a property bubble and the government said last
week the Bank of England will perform annual checks.  “Over the last few years, the housing market has been
split between a buoyant London, boosted by overseas demand, and
a trend of falling prices across other regions,” said Richard Donnell, director of research at Hometrack. “Now we are seeing
continued house-price growth in  London  combining with modest
gains across other regions and creating a picture of a
broadening market recovery.”  Prices rose in September in nine of 10 regions tracked by
Hometrack, according to the report. London led gains on the
month, with a 0.8 percent increase.  Nationally, the number of buyers registering with realtors
increased 1.4 percent in September from August, while new
property listings fell 0.3 percent. In the capital, listings
dropped 2.9 percent, according to Hometrack. The report follows
data from Nationwide Building Society showing  home-price growth 
quickened this month  ‘Low Base’  “In many markets outside London this is the first time
that prices have started to register positive growth for over 5
years,” Hometrack said. “Prices are rising off a low base and
talk of a housing bubble in relation to the national market is
overdone.”  That echoes comments from the BOE’s Financial Policy
Committee on Sept. 25, when it said that property activity
remains below its historic average. In the statement following
its quarterly meeting, the panel added it will “closely monitor
developments in the housing market and banks’ underwriting
standards” and be “vigilant to potential emerging
vulnerabilities.”  In a separate report published today, Knight Frank LLP said
London luxury-home prices rose the most in five months in
September as more buyers sought properties for less than 2
million pounds ($3.2 million) to avoid a sales-tax increase.  Rising Confidence  The average value of a house or apartment in the city’s
most expensive neighborhoods climbed 0.7 percent from August, an
index compiled by the broker showed. That brought the gain for
the past 12 months to 7 percent.  Deloitte meanwhile said confidence among chief financial
officers rose for a fifth consecutive quarter and is close to
the highest in almost three years.  Fifty-four percent of CFOs said that “now is a good time
to take greater risk,” the most since the third quarter of 2007
when Deloitte started the survey. Uncertainty about external
economic factors dropped to 62 percent from 97 percent two years
ago.  Deloitte surveyed 116 CFOs from FTSE 100 and FTSE 250
companies between Sept. 6 and Sept. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  