-- Mumbai Building Collapse Kills 61, Leaves 31 Injured
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-09-30T01:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-29/mumbai-building-collapse-kills-61-leaves-31-injured.html
As many as 61 people were killed
and 31 injured in a building collapse in  India ’s financial
capital  Mumbai , according to Vijay Khabale Patil, a spokesman
for the  Municipal Corporation  of Greater Mumbai.  The thirty year-old, five-story building, listed for urgent
repair, caved in early Friday morning, when most of its 115
residents were inside, Patil said in a telephone interview as
two days of rescue work ended yesterday. Authorities asked
residents to vacate the building in April, he said.  Mumbai has seen at least a dozen building collapses in the
past three years, according to a report in Daily News and
Analysis. Many of these have been caused by unauthorized
construction, Patil said.  “I was woken up by the loud noises after the collapse,”
said Suyash Jhadhav, a resident of a neighboring building. “I
felt that something might happen to our building since both
buildings are close.”  As rescue work proceeded, hundreds of people gathered near
the site in a low-rise, densely populated neighborhood near the
harbor in southern Mumbai.  Police arrested a businessman who had his office and a
warehouse on the ground floor of the building, suspecting he
carried out illegal renovation work that may have weakened the
structure and caused the collapse, Patil said.  Investigative Panels  The city’s municipal authority has formed two panels to
investigate and survey 56 buildings in the city that need urgent
repair, Patil said. The panels will submit their reports in 45
days.  “Those that can be repaired will be repaired; others will
be demolished,” he said.  That number may be grossly understated, said Ramashrya Yadav, joint chief executive officer at  Orbit Corp. Ltd. (ORB) , a
property developer in the city.  “It’s an appallingly low number and is a result of the
administration’s myopic and faulty methods of assessment,”
Yadav said by phone. “They just look at the age of building,
which is ridiculous. A more rigorous audit that includes quality
check is needed.”  He said almost 400 buildings in the city are unfit for
habitation and must be redeveloped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Niveditha Ravi at 
 nravi2@bloomberg.net  